source: packet.pdf
sha256: 8801dda2585fa982395404adf9dae5f78cb13ef0ad0443e3653665c428be7d01
pages: 311
ocr_pages: 2
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Agenda
March 2, 2020
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Joe Goethals, Mayor
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor
Rick Bonilla
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance: Cub Scout Pack 3
Roll Call
CEREMONIAL
1.
“March for Meals” – Meals on Wheels
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
2.
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council's special and regular meetings of February 18, 2020.
3.
Private Development and Right-of-Way Support Services Agreement – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the agreement with CSG Consultants, Inc. for professional consultant services for
private development and right-of-way support services in the amount of $110,000, for a new agreement total of
$200,000; extend the term of the agreement to be completed on or about March 2, 2021; and authorize the
Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented.
4.
Building Access Control System Maintenance – Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to make the required findings that competitive bidding was impractical; approve a five-year
agreement with Edgeworth Integration, LLC, for Building Access Control System Maintenance in the amount of
$112,400; establish a contingency reserve of $12,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the
agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders up to the contingency amount.
5.
Main Library Children's Area Remodel - Contract Change Order
Approve Change Order No. 1 to the contract with City Building Inc. for additional scope of work at the children’s
area in the Main Library in the amount of $40,982, for a new contract total of $116,973, and authorize the Public
Works Director to execute the change order in substantially the form presented.
1 of 311

--- page 2 ---
6.
Annual Sewer Basin Rehabilitation – On Call Agreements
Approve four on-call professional design services agreements for the Clean Water Program with 1) CSG
Consultants, 2) Water Works Engineers, 3) Schaaf & Wheeler and 4) Harris & Associates for various sewer pipe
rehabilitation projects in amounts not-to-exceed $1,000,000 for each consultant; and authorize the Public Works
Director to execute the agreements in substantially the form presented and issue project-specific task orders
under these agreements.
7.
Board and Commission Appointment Subcommittee - Park & Recreation Commission
Appoint Mayor Goethals and Council Member Lee to the Park & Recreation Commission Appointment
Subcommittee.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
City Council action on the following public hearing(s) represents a final decision concluding all administrative proceedings. Judicial
review may be had only if a petition is filed with the Court not later than the 90th day following the date the decision is made. Judicial
review of environmental determinations may be subject to a time period for litigation as short as 30 days following the date the
decision is made.
8.
Parking In-Lieu Fee Increase – Approval
Adopt a Resolution to increase the Parking In-Lieu Fee and update the City's fiscal year 2019-20 and fiscal year
2020-21 Comprehensive Fee Schedules.
9.
Fiscal Year 2020-21 Comprehensive Fee Schedule – Approval
Adopt a Resolution to approve the revisions to the proposed fiscal year 2020-21 Comprehensive Fee Schedule.
OLD BUSINESS
10.
Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU)/Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit (JADU) Ordinance Update
Discuss changes to State law associated with ADU and JADU development and consider areas of regulation which
remain under local agency discretion.
NEW BUSINESS
11.
Local Historic Markers in the Public Right-of-Way – Policy Approval
Adopt a Resolution to approve the proposed Council Policy on Local Historic Markers in the Public Right-of-Way,
provide feedback on the preferred prototype design, and consider the City of San Mateo Parks and Recreation
Foundation’s proposal to commemorate Ching Lee Laundry.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
2 of 311

--- page 3 ---
CLOSED SESSION - CONVENE TO CLOSED SESSION IN CONFERENCE ROOM C
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the Council’s consideration of this item. Following the meeting a report of
action from Closed Session will be provided if required.
12.
Conference with Labor Negotiators (Government Code Section 54957.6)
City designated representatives: Stacey Cue and Casey Echarte Employee Organizations: Management
Association, Safety Management Association, SEIU Library Merit Unit, SEIU Library Per Diem Unit
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Agendas are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting. Background material can be viewed at City
Hall or on the City's website www.cityofsanmateo.org. Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the
agenda will be available for review in the City Clerk's Office.
City Council meetings are broadcast live on Cable Channel 27 for Comcast, Channel 26 for Astound, and Channel 99 for AT&T
customers. For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this
meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or polds@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting
will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
3 of 311

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-0018
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Department
MEETING DATE:
March 02, 2020 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the City Council's special and regular meetings of February 18, 2020.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – February 18, 2020 Special Meeting Minutes 
Att 2 – February 18, 2020 Regular Meeting Minutes
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
4 of 311

--- page 5 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 02/18/2020 
 
Page 1 
 
COUNCIL MEMBERS 
Joe Goethals, Mayor 
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor 
Rick Bonilla 
Diane Papan 
Amourence Lee 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Special Meeting Minutes 
City Council 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
  
Tuesday, February 18, 2020 
Council Chamber 5:30 PM 
Special Meeting 
  
CALL TO ORDER 
  
Roll Call 
 
Present:    Mayor Goethals, Deputy Mayor Rodriguez, Council Members: Papan and Lee  
Recused: Council Member Bonilla because of a potential conflict of interest involving his residence, which is 
located in the neighborhood adjacent to the location of the proposed parking track, because of the 
potential effect the Council’s decision might have on the value of his property. 
 
 
STUDY SESSION  
 
1. 
25th Avenue Grade Separation – Parking Track Location Update  
Public Works Director Brad Underwood, Casey Fromson, Caltrain Director Government & Community Affairs, and 
Rafael Bolon, Caltrain Project Manager, provided a presentation on the technical viability with the three-
proposed community generated options for the parking (Set-Out) track locations. The Mayor opened the meeting 
to public comment.  
  
1. Organized presentation from Chris Brousseau representing the Hayward Park neighborhood and their 
proposed locations for the track.  
2. Organized presentation from the Universe of Colors preschool from Teacher Ella, Bry Myers, Stephen 
Floor, and Andy Curtis against option 27. 
3. Christine Padilla, Build Up San Mateo County – spoke in support of child care and preschool facilities. 
4. Cole G. Canafax – stated concern with Caltrain having permits. 
5. Kevin Hearle, Ph.D. – stated Caltrain misleading with the facts. 
6. Lisa Diaz Nash – stated the need for a dedicated EIR, concern with additional restrictions to current 
proposed sites, the need to look for additional sites and for more realistic cost estimates. 
7. John Carlisle – stated the neighbors have not had a collaborative experience with Caltrain. 
8. Pamela Campos, Build Up for San Mateo County – spoke about childcare needs. 
9. Michael Nash – cited a need for better notification. 
10. Rebekah Butler – stated there has been no meaningful public comment in this project. 
11. Debra Genevieve – stated concerns with increased traffic in the area. 
12. Josephine Christensen – stated Caltrain deliberately hid information. 
13. Kaj Osterback – stated the residents are owed real drawing, real public review, real public comment. 
14. Drew – stated corridor wide study is needed. 
15. Tatiana Ermakova – stated Universe of Colors Preschool is a successful woman-run business. 
16. Olabisi Clinton – stated concern with the school’s $200k loan for improvements. 
17. Denis Lacasse – stated concern with the process. 
 
Council asked follow-up questions from the public comment period and Caltrain staff responded.  
 
Council provided comments:  
5 of 311

--- page 6 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 02/18/2020 
 
Page 2 
 
 
Deputy Mayor Rodriguez stated his thoughts have not changed much since the last study session. He 
acknowledged he is not an engineer and wanted to be convinced that the other options could work but he hasn’t 
seen anything that means that they could work. He would support having a third-party review given the history of 
this project. He acknowledged the lack of outreach from the beginning and concerns with a flawed EIR. He is in 
favor of studying Option 27 more closely and use some of the $1.1 million that was set aside for the wall to find 
the preschool in a more appropriate location that is not in the public right-of-way.  
 
Mayor Goethals stated he does not find it palatable to close down a day care center, preschools are a very high 
need in the community. He noted we have to work with Caltrain to make the train work well on the Peninsula. 
The parking track is going to allow for this service to continue and it needs to happen roughly in this location. 
These possible locations were a result of studying safety and function and he appreciates those principles. He 
understands there is not going to be a significant use. He fully supports a mitigation plan for this neighborhood. 
He encouraged Caltrain to work with the neighbors and ask them for aesthetic input for the wall. He 
acknowledged the neighbor’s concerns and noted a consideration of Caltrain to work properly. He would support 
moving forward with the recommended location but with a firm mitigation process. 
 
Council Member Lee stated she appreciates the entire community coming out as public input elevates any 
process. Her concern is the principle of doing the least amount of harm and doing the most good. She noted the 
CEQA analysis did not show any health and safety or property risks. There is very minimal harm and impact 
associated with this project. She noted there are a dozens of these set-out tracks up and down the Caltrain 
corridor. She also lives near the Caltrain station and tracks. She commented on the 100s of hours of staff time, 
Caltrain staff and engineering time already committed to this project. No further analysis will make any 
alternative viable and it is hard to justify delaying the process and adding additional costs. She noted the 
responsibility to all of the tax payers to maximize the value of every dollar. Going beyond this deadline will 
compile costs. More study will not lead to a different answer. She acknowledged there were things missed in 
terms of notification and transparency and also sees the things that were done to address that. She noted that 
she is very committed to ensuring mitigation measures.  
 
Council Member Papan acknowledged that this is in Caltrain’s right-of-way and the City has to do what it can 
within its purview. She expressed appreciation for the efforts put in over these last nine months as 30+ 
alternatives were explored in at least five public meetings. She noted the 25th Avenue grade separation has been 
20 years in the making and is a $100 million project of which the City is contributing $12 million. Changing and 
delaying this would increase our costs 50% or more. We have a responsibility to be fiscal stewards for the entire 
community. She noted there would be restricted use from Caltrain. She noted the need for mitigation measures 
in a collaborative way and would like to weigh in on the process for mitigation. She noted this has been a very 
difficult decision; yet as fiscal stewards our hands really are tied.  
 
Mayor Goethals will take personal responsibility to notify the neighborhood of mitigation meetings. 
 
ADJOURNMENT  
The Meeting adjourned at 7:28 pm. 
 
APPROVED BY:                                                         SUBMITTED BY: 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                  
Joe Goethals, Mayor                                                    Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk 
6 of 311

--- page 7 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 02/18/20 
 
Page 1 
COUNCIL MEMBERS 
Joe Goethals, Mayor 
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor 
Rick Bonilla 
Diane Papan 
Amourence Lee 
City of San Mateo  
Regular Meeting Minutes 
City Council 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
  
Tuesday, February 18, 2020 
City Hall Council Chambers 7:00 PM 
Regular Meeting 
  
 
CALL TO ORDER at 7:36 pm 
  
Pledge of Allegiance: Police Department Honor Guard 
 
Roll Call 
 
 
Present: Mayor Goethals, Deputy Mayor Rodriguez, Council Members: Bonilla, Papan and Lee  
 
CEREMONIAL 
  
1. Badge Pinning & Swearing-In of new Police Chief Barberini 
 
2. League of Women Voters 100th Anniversary – Proclamation 
 
3. Commendatory Resolution – Ron Munekawa, Chief Planner 
Upon motion by Goethals, second by Papan to unanimously pass Commendatory Resolution No. C-1 
 
4. Black History Month Recognition 
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
The following items, 5 through 9, were considered to be routine by the City Council. Item 10 was removed from action to 
be considered at a future meeting. After the titles of the items were read by the City Clerk, the public was invited to 
comment and there were no speakers. Motion passed 5-0. 
 
Moved: Bonilla, Seconded: Rodriguez 
Ayes:  
Goethals, Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan and Lee 
Noes:  
None 
 
5. City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval 
Approve the minutes of the City Council’s special and regular meetings of February 3, 2020. 
  
6. 1 Transit Center – Lease Amendment  
Approve the second amendment to the lease with Rise Wood Fire, LLC, authorize the City Manager to execute the 
amendment in substantially the form presented, and authorize the City Manager to approve future revisions to the 
approved lease provided that the revisions to the approved tenant improvements are valued at less than $50,000 or 
changes to the site plan comprise less than 50 square feet.  
  
7 of 311

--- page 8 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 02/18/20 
 
Page 2 
7. 390 1st Avenue – Lease Amendment 
Approve an amendment to the lease between the City and Good Drink, LLC dba Red Giant Coffee at 390 1st Avenue 
to Galata Sweets and Bakeries, LLC, to change the lessee and other minor terms and allow for an increase of security 
deposit amount to $10,000; and authorize the City Manager to execute the Amendment in substantially the form 
presented. 
  
8. Job Specification Updates - Departments of Public Works, Parks and Recreation, Information Technology, and Police 
Adopt a Resolution to approve revisions to the job specifications for the classifications of Senior Dispatcher, Facilities 
Maintenance Worker I-II, Wastewater Treatment Plant Manager, Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator-In-Training-
I-II, Wastewater Treatment Plant Shift Supervisor, Landscape Maintenance Worker I-II, and Network Analyst. 
 
Enactment:  Resolution No. 17 (2020) 
  
9. Investment Advisory Services - Agreement 
Approve an agreement with Chandler Asset Management for Investment Advisory Services and authorize the 
Finance Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
10. 
END OF CONSENT CALENDAR 
 
REMOVED FROM CONSENT CALENDAR 
Pulled to go forward at a future meeting. No action taken. 
 
San Mateo County Event Center Pari-Mutuel Tax Revenue Memorandum of Understanding – Termination  
Authorize the City Manager to send written notice to terminate the Memorandum of Understanding with the San 
Mateo Count Event Center, in which the City provides certain municipal services to the Event Center at no cost in 
exchange for pari-mutuel tax revenue. 
  
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Deniz Balbol commented on the recommendation for item #10 which was pulled off of the agenda. She spoke in 
objection to horse racing as a very brutal industry and stated it is ethically correct thing and disassociate from subsidizing 
or profiting from this industry. Pat Balbol concurred with previous speaker. Drew commented on transparency at Caltrain 
and the need to push back hard for the Hillsdale station.  
 
OLD BUSINESS  
  
11. Parking In-Lieu Fee - Fee Structure Update 
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner, provided the presentation updating the parking in-lieu fee 
research and outlined progress to date. Council asked questions of staff.  
 
Public Comment – Pat Calihan, Prometheus, stated he is concerned with the antiquated zoning code and is open to 
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) and noted ongoing monitoring is a great idea.  Marcus Gilmour, 
recommended do the TDM and then apply parking standards and asked if it make sense to put it in the General Plan 
update process.  
Council asked additional questions of staff. Direction was given to continue the studies, however keep analyzing 
TDM, and make sure as part of this we aren’t creating unnecessary financial burden on developers, as the goal is to 
not have developers pay for more than they are generating, while we ensure they don’t pay for less. Council asked 
to look at $50,000 per parking space at the next meeting on this issue. 
8 of 311

--- page 9 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 02/18/20 
 
Page 3 
 
  
 
NEW BUSINESS 
 
12. Transportation Analysis Policy Development – Introduction 
 
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner, and Damian Stefanakis, Principal Planner, Kittelson & 
Associates, Inc., provided an update on the transportation policy development effort to comply with Senate Bill 743, 
changing traffic impact analysis from level of service to vehicle miles traveled methodology – which must be in place 
by July 1, 2020. Council supported the recommendations to ensure compliance.  
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
The City Manager, City Attorney and City Council reported on their various committees and liaison roles. Following the 
opportunity for public comment, there were no speakers the City Council adjourned to closed session to take up the 
following matter: 
 
CLOSED SESSION 
13. Conference with Legal Counsel – Existing Litigation  
 
(Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Government Code Section 54956.9) Name of case: State of California, et al. v. 
Verizon Wireless, et al.; Sacramento Superior Court Case No. 34-2012-00127517 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
The meeting adjourned at 9:38 pm. 
 
APPROVED BY: 
SUBMITTED BY: 
 
 
                                                            
                                                            
Joe Goethals, Mayor  
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk 
  
 
 
9 of 311

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-2479
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
March 02, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Private Development and Right-of-Way Support Services Agreement – Amendment 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the agreement with CSG Consultants, Inc. for professional consultant services for private 
development and right-of-way support services in the amount of $110,000, for a new agreement total of $200,000; extend 
the term of the agreement to be completed on or about March 2, 2021; and authorize the Public Works Director to 
execute the amendment in substantially the form presented. 
BACKGROUND:
On January 6, 2019, to address a significant increase in the number of permits and planning applications that required 
Public Works staff review, the Public Works Director approved an agreement with CSG Consultants, Inc. (CSG) for private 
development and right-of-way support services in the not-to-exceed amount of $48,000.  CSG’s scope of work primarily 
includes review of building permits, planning applications, and right-of-way related work. On July 15, 2019, the City 
Manager approved Amendment No.1, increasing the agreement amount to $90,000.
Due to the continued high volume of building permit and planning applications being submitted to the City, there is still a 
need for consulting services to assist staff to review and process the applications within the required timeframes. Costs 
associated with staff time and consultant services required to review and process applications and permits are paid by fees 
collected from the building permit applicants and planning application deposits.  Accordingly, all costs associated with 
CSG’s review of the applications are recovered by the City.  The increased contract amount is estimated to be sufficient for 
one year of part-time work from CSG support staff.
Prior to reaching the total amount of this contract amendment, Public Works staff will issue a Request for Qualifications to 
provide a competitive process for future private development and right-of-way support services. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no net fiscal impact for this contract amendment, as the costs for consulting services will be paid by deposits 
collected from applicants or from permitting fees. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This amendment to a professional services agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
10 of 311

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Amendment
STAFF CONTACT
Tracy Scramaglia, Senior Engineer
tscramaglia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7316
11 of 311

--- page 12 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 1 of 5
Rev 9/17
AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND
CSG CONSULTANTS, INC. FOR
PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
CSG Consultants, Inc. (“Consultant”), entered into an Agreement for Professional Consultant Services 
(“Agreement”) on January 6, 2019; and
WHEREAS, the City requires additional staffing for review and processing of building permit and 
planning applications; and
WHEREAS, the Consultant provides those services; and
WHEREAS, City and Consultant wish to amend the Agreement effective July 15, 2019 to increase 
the payment from $90,000 to a not to exceed amount of $200,000 of this Agreement; and
WHEREAS, City and Consultant wish to amend the Agreement effective July 15, 2019 to extend the 
term to on or about March 2nd, 2020; and
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.
Section 4 -Term of the Agreement is amended to read:
“The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on December 3rd, 
2018March 2nd, 2020[replace with the original start date of the agreement bc that has not 
changed] and be completed on or about March 2nd, 2021.”
2.
Section 5 -Payment of the Agreement is amended to read:
“Payment shall be made by the CITY only for services rendered an upon submission of a 
payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In 
consideration for the full performances of the services and any reimbursable expenses set 
forth in this Agreement, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee based on verified time and 
materials not to exceed $200,000.  Requests for payments shall be itemized and correspond 
to the various items of work described in Exhibit A and shall be based on the rate and cost 
schedule set forth in Exhibit B.
Payment for extra work or changes in the work will not be made unless for work authorized 
in advance in writing by the PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.  Prior to commencing such extra 
work or changes, CONSULTANT and CITY shall agree upon an estimated not to exceed cost 
for such extra work.  In no event shall CONSULTANT be paid for additional work that is 
necessary because of CONSULTANT’S errors or oversights.”
3.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
Exhibits:
Exhibit A – Scope of Services
12 of 311

--- page 13 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 2 of 5
Rev 9/17
Exhibit B – Rate and Cost Schedule
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
13 of 311

--- page 14 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 3 of 5
Rev 9/17
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and CSG Consultants, Inc. have executed this Agreement on 
____________________, 2020.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
Brad B. Underwood
Public Works Director
Cyrus Kianpour
Its Authorized Agent
President
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 
2) Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall 
sign below.
APPROVED AS TO FORM
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Gabrielle Whelan
Assistant City Attorney
14 of 311

--- page 15 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 4 of 5
Rev 9/17
Exhibit A – Scope of Services
SCOPE OF WORK – ONSITE LAND DEVELOPMENT PLAN CHECK
CSG will perform part-time onsite plan checking duties for planning applications and
building permits under the supervision of City staff.
Typical staff augmentation duties will include:

Review tentative maps, tentative parcel maps, architectural review, and other entitlement 
applications. Coordinate review with City staff and/or outside agencies as needed;

Review final maps and improvement plans. Review will include evaluation of required records, 
studies, grading and improvement plan, and additional materials submitted by the design 
professional. Confirm that plans conform to City standard design criteria, conditions of approval, 
and infrastructure or other master plans;

The proposed staff will meet with the applicant/representative and City staff to review comments 
or to delineate the standards which are not being met, in order to facilitate timely completion of 
the review;

Participate in the evaluation of construction erosion control and postconstruction water quality 
control for compliance with the storm water quality management permit;

Confirm that the developer has obtained necessary permits or approvals from other public 
agencies as needed, and that plans conform to the City’s NPDES Municipal Regional Permit 
requirements for storm water treatment and retention;

Review and recommend approval of engineering bond estimates and subdivision guarantees. Assist 
City staff in preparing subdivision improvement agreements, other agreements (including 
stormwater treatment measure and landscape maintenance agreements), and staff reports;

Meet with developers, consultants, and other agencies on behalf of staff, as requested;

Plan review comments and conditions of approval will be provided utilizing Energov software.
15 of 311

--- page 16 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 5 of 5
Rev 9/17
Exhibit B – Rate and Cost Schedule
2020 Engineering Division Hourly Rates
CSG services are billed on a time-and-materials basis according to our Standard Rates, shown below.
All hourly rates 
include 
overhead costs 
including, but 
not limited to, salaries, benefits, Workers Compensation Insurance, travel and office expenses. CSG will coordinate the pickup 
and return of plans to and from CSG offices. Overtime work will be billed at 1.5x the hourly rates indicated in the table above. On 
each anniversary of the contract start date, CSG will initiate a rate increase based on change in CPI-U for the applicable region. 
CSG will mail an invoice every month for services rendered during the previous month.
Professional Engineering Services
2020 
Hourly Rate
Engineering Trainee
$60
Administrative Assistant
$80
Analyst
$130
Engineering Designer/CASp Inspection & Consultation
$140
Construction Inspector
$145
Senior Analyst
$155
Assistant Resident Engineer
$170
Assistant Engineer
$145
Associate Engineer
$170
Senior Construction Inspector
$155
Senior Engineer
$200
Senior Land Surveyor
$200
Resident Engineer
$200
Structure Representative
$200
Senior Structural Engineer
$220
Senior Project Manager
$220
Principal Engineer
$230
Senior Principal Engineer
$250
Two-Person Survey Crew
$330
16 of 311

--- page 17 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-2484
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
March 02, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Building Access Control System Maintenance – Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to make the required findings that competitive bidding was impractical; approve a five-year agreement 
with Edgeworth Integration, LLC,  for Building Access Control System Maintenance in the amount of $112,400; establish a 
contingency reserve of $12,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the 
form presented and issue change orders up to the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
During 2019, the City engaged Edgeworth Security, LLC, DBA VAS Security Systems Inc. (Edgeworth) to furnish and install 
an upgrade to the Citywide building access control system.  The project began in March and was completed in December 
2019 for a total construction cost of $485,083.47.   
From July 2018 through February 2019, a committee consisting of staff from each department selected Edgeworth through 
a request for proposal process that included thirteen prospective firms.  The committee determined that Avigilon, the 
access control system proposed by Edgeworth, would best suit the needs of the City for the long term.  The specific system 
equipment is proprietary and can only be provided and serviced by Edgeworth. Therefore, calling for bids for system 
maintenance is impractical and unavailing in accordance with Municipal Code Section 3.60.050(b).   In November 2019, the 
City requested a proposal from Edgeworth for a general maintenance services over a five-year period including hardware 
and software repairs, onsite and online technical support, and firmware upgrades.  Based on similar types of maintenance 
programs for equipment throughout the City, the proposed amount over a five-year period is reasonable.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds budgeted in the Public Works operating budget to fund this agreement in the amount of 
$22,480 annually.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Agreement
17 of 311

--- page 18 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
 
STAFF CONTACT
Steve Wu, Project Manager II
swu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7345
18 of 311

--- page 19 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2020) 
 
APPROVING CONTRACT FOR CITYWIDE BUILDING ACCESS CONTROL SYSTEM MAINTENANCE SERVICE 
AGREEMENT 
WHEREAS, the City Council is being asked to award a contract for the Citywide Building Access Control 
System Maintenance Service Agreement in the amount of $112,400.00; and
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.030 generally requires competitive bidding 
for contacts of $100,000 or more; and
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.050(b) provides that competitive bidding need not 
be utilized if the City Council makes findings that calling for bids would be impracticable; and
WHEREAS, calling for bids is impracticable because, in order to preserve the product warranty, 
the Avigilon building access control system can only be serviced by Edgeworth Integration, LLC; and
WHEREAS, based on these circumstances, staff was unable to get competitive bids; and
WHEREAS, a contingency of $12,000 will be established to cover non-routine maintenance costs shall 
they arise; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15301, this maintenance agreement is 
categorically exempt from CEQA in accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15301, because the agreement is 
for the maintenance of an existing facility.
  
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that: 
 
1.
Calling for bids is impracticable in accordance with Municipal Code Section 3.60.050(b) because the 
Avigilon building access control system is proprietary and can only be serviced by Edgeworth 
Integration, LLC to maintain its current product warranty.
2.
The contract for Maintenance Services for Citywide Building Access Control System and contingency 
is approved.
19 of 311

--- page 20 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 1 of 15
Rev. 9/17
AGREEMENT WITH EDGEWORTH INTEGRATION, LLC
FOR MAINTENANCE SERVICES
FOR 
CITYWIDE BUILDING ACCESS CONTROL SYSTEM
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between the CITY 
OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California ("CITY"), and 
Edgeworth Integration, LLC,  ("CONTRACTOR"), whose address is 1257 Quarry Lane #125, Pleasanton, 
CA 94566.
RECITALS:
A.
CITY desires certain maintenance services hereinafter described.
B.
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these maintenance services by 
reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONTRACTOR has offered 
to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement.  CONTRACTOR shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work.
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement.
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONTRACTOR.
CONTRACTOR and his subcontractors shall comply with State’s Prevailing Wage Laws.  
CONTRACTOR or subcontractor shall not be qualified to bid on, be listed in a bid proposal, or 
engage in the performance of any contract for public work unless currently registered and qualified to 
perform public work pursuant to Section 1725.5 of the Labor Code.  For the work performed for the 
City, the CONTRACTOR and his subcontractors shall pay the workers at the prevailing wage rate as 
determined by the California Department of Industrial Relations, for this locality.  This project is subject 
to compliance monitoring and enforcement by the Department of Industrial Relations.
20 of 311

--- page 21 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 2 of 15
Rev. 9/17
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project.
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR'S work.
SECTION 4 - TERM
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on April 1, 2020 and be 
completed on or about March 31, 2025.
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR a not to exceed 
amount of $112,400, also described in Exhibit A.
SECTION 6 – TERMINATION
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONTRACTOR.  CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice.
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement are and shall 
be the property of CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not.
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONTRACTOR shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release.
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement.
21 of 311

--- page 22 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 3 of 15
Rev. 9/17
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, 
CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the 
result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement.
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify City of San Mateo, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, 
and expense arising out of CONTRACTOR’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims 
arising out of CITY’s sole negligence or willful misconduct.  CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City of San 
Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified 
in Exhibit B to this Agreement.
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written 
consent of CITY.
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is 
skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies 
upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY does 
not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation.
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the 
same or of any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of 
any fee or other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any 
preceding breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement 
or of any applicable law or ordinance.
22 of 311

--- page 23 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 4 of 15
Rev. 9/17
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR'S services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or 
is based upon CONTRACTOR'S wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR'S standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony.
SECTION 20 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
23 of 311

--- page 24 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 5 of 15
Rev. 9/17
To CITY:
Steve Wu, Project Manager
City of San Mateo
330 W 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
To CONTRACTOR:
Edgeworth Security, LLC
Attn:  Danny Haddad
1257 Quarry Lane #125
Pleasanton, CA 94566 
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR.
SECTION 22 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
24 of 311

--- page 25 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 6 of 15
Rev. 9/17
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and EDGEWORTH INTEGRATION, LLC, have 
executed this Agreement the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Brad B. Underwood
Public Works Director
Ken Young
Its Authorized Agent
CEO
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) 
Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below.
APPROVED AS TO FORM
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Gabrielle Whelan
Assistant City Attorney
Attachments:
Exhibit A:
Scope of Services
Exhibit B:
Insurance Requirements
25 of 311

--- page 26 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 7 of 15
Rev. 9/17
EXHIBIT A
26 of 311

--- page 27 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 8 of 15
Rev. 9/17
27 of 311

--- page 28 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 9 of 15
Rev. 9/17
28 of 311

--- page 29 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 10 of 15
Rev. 9/17
29 of 311

--- page 30 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 11 of 15
Rev. 9/17
30 of 311

--- page 31 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 12 of 15
Rev. 9/17
31 of 311

--- page 32 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 13 of 15
Rev. 9/17
32 of 311

--- page 33 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 14 of 15
Rev. 9/17
EXHIBIT B
33 of 311

--- page 34 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 15 of 15
Rev. 9/17
34 of 311

--- page 35 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-2445
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
March 2, 2020
SUBJECT:
Main Library Children's Area Remodel - Contract Change Order
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Change Order No. 1 to the contract with City Building Inc. for additional scope of work at the children’s area in 
the Main Library in the amount of $40,982, for a new contract total of $116,973, and authorize the Public Works Director 
to execute the change order in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The Main Library was built in 2006 and provides resources and offers services to the San Mateo community to meet the 
needs of individuals and groups for education, information, and personal development. In an effort to improve children's 
area functions, the library initiated the Children’s Area Remodel Project to modernize media access, host events, and 
improve the overall user experience.
The original project scope of work involved a variety of building trades including demolition, carpentry, flooring, plumbing, 
painting, electrical, mechanical, media equipment, and furniture. In July 2019, the City engaged City Building Inc. as one of 
the contractors whose scope was to provide painting, plumbing, and electrical work for a contract amount of $75,991.
After commencement of the renovation, the Library identified the need to expand the scope of work in order to meet all 
needs at the program level.  Because construction had already begun and library services had been interrupted, Library 
staff determined that it was in the best interest of the City to move forward with completion of the Children’s Area 
Remodel Project so as not to delay the re-opening of the area or to impede the Library's ability to effectively provide 
children’s services to the community.  Public Works staff directed City Building Inc. to continue work with the added scope.
The additional work consisted of demolition and disposal of existing theater risers, rerouting and installation of mechanical 
ductwork, framing for the installation of additional media equipment, electrical work in specific locations to accommodate 
new computer equipment needs, and drywall installation and repair.  Change Order No. 1 represents the cost for materials 
and labor for the work not included in the original scope for City Building Inc. The additional amount of $40,982 increases 
the total contract to $116,973.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the Public Works Department operating budget to fund this change order.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This change order is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
35 of 311

--- page 36 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Contract Change Order
STAFF CONTACT
Steve Wu, Project Manager
swu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7345
David Fink, Facilities and Fleet Services Manager
dfink@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7360
36 of 311

--- page 37 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
330 WEST 20TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
(650) 522-7300
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER 01
PROJECT:
Main Library Children’s Area Remodel
TO:
City Building Inc.
212 N. San Mateo Drive
San Mateo, CA 94402
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER NO.  01
Page 1 of 1
Purchase Order No. 46-04786
   February 18, 2020 
You are hereby directed to make the herein described changes from the plans and specifications or do the following described work not 
included in the plans and specifications on your contract.
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
Following is a description of work to be done, estimate of quantities, and prices to be paid.
Additional scope of work includes 
Demolition, Framing, Electrical, Painting, Mechanical work and As-Builts.
Total cost of change not to exceed $40,982
We, the undersigned contractor, have given careful consideration to the change 
proposed and hereby agree, if this proposal is approved, that we will provide all 
equipment, furnish all materials, except as may otherwise be noted above, and 
perform all services necessary for the work above specified, and will accept as 
full payment therefore the prices shown above.
Date Accepted: 
By: 
    
      Scott V. Hagberg, President
     City Building, Inc. 
DISTRIBUTION: Purchasing Department, Contractor, Construction Inspector, 
Project Manager/Project Analyst, Project File
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNT
Original Contract Price
$75,991.00
Previous Change Orders
$ 0.00
Total to date
$75,991.00
This Change Order                            $40,982.00
Revised Contract Price
$116,973.00
Date Approved: 
By: 
       BRAD B UNDERWOOD, Public Works Director
NOTE: This change order is not effective until approved by the 
Public Works Director.
37 of 311

--- page 38 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-2542
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
March 02, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Annual Sewer Basin Rehabilitation – On Call Agreements
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve four on-call professional design services agreements for the Clean Water Program with 1) CSG Consultants, 2) 
Water Works Engineers, 3) Schaaf & Wheeler and 4) Harris & Associates for various sewer pipe rehabilitation projects in 
amounts not-to-exceed $1,000,000 for each consultant; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the 
agreements in substantially the form presented and issue project-specific task orders under these agreements. 
BACKGROUND:
The Clean Water Program (CWP) includes significant infrastructure upgrades at the wastewater treatment plant and 
throughout the sanitary sewer collection system to improve wastewater system capacity, flow management, and reduce 
inflow and infiltration to comply with regulatory requirements. Cleaning and video inspection of sanitary sewer mains is 
needed to identify locations for repair, rehabilitation, or replacement of sewer mains. Design services are necessary to 
complete the planned sewer rehabilitations.  In previous years, the sewer cleaning and video inspection services were 
contracted separately from the condition evaluation and rehabilitation design services. To gain efficiencies in management 
and inspection information collection, the two scopes of work were merged and the on-call services agreements now 
include management and performance of sewer cleaning and video inspection, evaluation of inspection data, developing 
bid documents (plans, details, specifications, construction cost estimates), and providing services during construction for 
sewer rehabilitations. 
In November 2019, a Request for Qualifications (RFQ) for sewer condition evaluation and rehabilitation design services 
was issued. Nine consulting firms responded to the RFQ. Staff evaluated the nine proposals on the basis of proposal 
quality, key staff, project understanding, past performance, local experience, scope and approach, references and skill set 
and concluded that four consultants are best qualified to provide sewer rehabilitation services for the CWP: CSG 
Consultants, Water Works Engineers, Schaaf & Wheeler, and Harris & Associates. The four consultants retained may 
provide on-call services for any of the City’s five basins, as well as any additional collection system evaluation and 
rehabilitation needs. 
Staff recommends award of agreements to CSG Consultants, Water Works Engineers, Schaaf & Wheeler and Harris & 
Associates, each in an amount not to exceed $1,000,000, with a term of three years and two one-year option to extend for 
each agreement.  Scope of work for project-specific task orders will be determined as needed and issued by the Public 
Works Director. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds in both Project No. 46s091 and No. 46s093 to fund these four agreements. $1,000,000 will be 
funded by Project No. 46s093, and the remaining $3,000,000 will be funded by Project No. 46s091.
38 of 311

--- page 39 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Council action on this item is exempt from CEQA review under section 15061(b)(3) of the CEQA Guidelines, since entering 
into an engineering design services contract will not have a significant effect on the environment. The resulting sewer 
rehabilitation projects are Categorically Exempt from CEQA requirements under section 15301 of CEQA guidelines, as they 
will be replacing existing facilities.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement - CSG Consultants 
Att 2— Agreement -Schaaf & Wheeler 
Att 3— Agreement -Water Works Engineers 
Att 4— Agreement - Harris & Associates 
STAFF CONTACT
Laura Webb, Associate Engineer
lwebb@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7322
Tom Williams, Senior Engineer
twilliams@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7307
39 of 311

--- page 40 ---
-1- 
 
AGREEMENT FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT 
 
On-Call Consulting Services for Annual Sanitary Sewer 
Rehabilitation Projects  
CSG Consultants 
 
This 
agreement, 
made 
and 
entered on______________________,  by  
and  between  the  CITY  OF  SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation 
existing under the laws of the State of California, hereinafter referred to as  
"CITY", and CSG Consultants, a California Corporation with offices at 
500 Pilgrim Drive, Foster City, CA 94404, hereinafter referred to as 
"CONSULTANT": 
 
R E C I T A L S: 
 
A. 
CITY desires certain professional design services hereinafter 
described. 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these professional 
design services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such 
services and CONSULTANT has offered to provide the required services on the 
terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF PROJECT 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this 
Agreement is described in Exhibit A, Scope of Services, attached and 
incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto 
that CONSULTANT is skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the 
work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill 
of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work. The acceptance of 
CONSULTANT'S work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT 
from said obligation. 
40 of 311

--- page 41 ---
-2- 
 
SECTION 3 - PROJECT COORDINATION/STAFFING 
 
3.1 
CITY 
 
BRAD  B. UNDERWOOD, PUBLIC  WORKS  DIRECTOR, will  be  the 
representative of CITY for all purposes under this Agreement. Deryk Daquigan is 
hereby designated as the Clean Water Program Manager, and Laura Webb is 
hereby designated as the PROJECT MANAGER and shall supervise the day to 
day progress and execution of this Agreement. 
 
3.2 
CONSULTANT 
 
CONSULTANT's services are unique and personal. CONSULTANT shall not 
assign or transfer its interest or obligation under this Agreement without the 
CITY's written consent. CONSULTANT shall not subcontract its duties under this 
Agreement without the CITY's written consent. 
 
CONSULTANT shall assign a single PROJECT DIRECTOR to have overall 
responsibility   for the progress and execution of this Agreement for 
CONSULTANT. 
Hatem Ahmed 
DIRECTOR for CONSULTANT. 
is hereby designated as the PROJECT 
 
CONSULTANT shall assign a PROJECT COORDINATOR to represent 
CONSULTANT during the day-to-day work on the Project. Sophie Truong is 
hereby designated as the PROJECT COORDINATOR for CONSULTANT. 
 
CONSULTANT shall assign additional key personnel as follows: 
 
 
 
 
Dave Bishop, PE 
 
 
 
Son Hoang 
 
In addition, CONSULTANT is specifically authorized to subcontract with 
the following sub-consulting firms to assist in providing the services required by 
this Agreement: 
 
 
 
 
Subtronic 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all sub- 
consultants necessary for performance of the CONSULTANT’S scope of work. 
CONSULTANT shall manage, evaluate, and incorporate sub-consultants work 
into the project as necessary. 
41 of 311

--- page 42 ---
-3- 
 
All work on this project shall be accomplished by the above-named 
CONSULTANT'S personnel and sub-consultants. CONSULTANT shall not 
substitute personnel or sub-consultants without the CITY'S written consent. 
 
SECTION 4 - INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services 
required under this Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered 
an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code Section 3353, under control 
of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the result is 
accomplished. Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an 
agent or employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 5 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
 
CONSULTANT'S Services shall be furnished as described below and as 
more particularly described in Exhibit A, Scope of Services. Any changes in the 
Scope of Services must be approved in advance, in writing, by the Public Works 
Director. 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical 
accuracy and coordination of all studies, reports, designs, drawings, 
specifications, and other items furnished by CONSULTANT under this 
Agreement. CONSULTANT shall, without additional compensation, correct or 
revise any errors or deficiencies in its studies, reports, designs, drawings, 
specifications, and other items. 
 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services 
described under this Agreement. 
 
All documents, drawings and specifications relating the project prepared 
by CONSULTANT or CONSULTANT’s approved sub-consultants shall be 
approved, signed, and sealed by professional engineers duly registered in the 
State of California for each required discipline. The Contract Documents 
prepared by CONSULTANT shall provide for a completed project that conforms 
to all applicable national, state and local construction codes and ordinances, 
building, fire, electrical, plumbing and occupancy codes and standards. 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons 
necessary to perform the services of CONSULTANT. No sub-consultant of 
CONSULTANT will be recognized by CITY as such; rather, all sub-consultants 
are deemed to be the agents of CONSULTANT, and CONSULTANT agrees to be 
responsible for their performance. CONSULTANT shall give its personal attention 
to the fulfillment of the provisions of this Agreement by all of its employees and 
sub-consultants, if any, and shall keep the work under its 
42 of 311

--- page 43 ---
-4- 
 
control. If any employee or sub-consultant of CONSULTANT fails or refuses to 
carry out the provisions of this Agreement or appears to be incompetent or to act 
in a disorderly or improper manner, he or she shall be discharged immediately 
from the work under this Agreement on demand of CITY. 
 
CONSULTANT shall furnish CITY with every reasonable opportunity for 
CITY to ascertain that the services of CONSULTANT are being performed in 
accordance with the requirement and intentions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 6 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the 
project. 
 
CITY shall examine all documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall 
render decisions pertaining thereto promptly to avoid unreasonable delay in the 
progress of CONSULTANT'S work. 
 
SECTION 7 - TERM, PROGRESS AND COMPLETION 
 
This Agreement shall be valid for a duration of three (3) years, with up to 
two optional one-year extensions (for a maximum duration of five (5) years).  
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence and 
be completed as set forth in Exhibit B, Project Schedule. 
 
SECTION 8 - PAYMENT 
 
Payment shall be made by the CITY only for services rendered and upon 
submission of a payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work 
performed. In consideration for the full performances of the services and any 
reimbursable expenses set forth in this Agreement, CITY agrees to pay 
CONSULTANT a fee based on verified time and materials not to exceed 
$1,000,000. Requests for payments shall be itemized and correspond to the 
various items of work described in Exhibit A and shall be based on the rate and 
cost schedule set forth in Exhibit C. 
Payment for extra work or changes in the work will not be made unless for 
work authorized in advance in writing by the PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. Prior 
to commencing such extra work or changes, CONSULTANT and CITY shall agree 
upon an estimated not-to-exceed cost for such extra work. In no event shall 
CONSULTANT be paid for additional work that is necessary because of 
CONSULTANT'S errors or oversights. 
 
CONSULTANT shall maintain complete and accurate records as to the 
number of hours worked by persons and the direct costs incurred during each 
phase under this Agreement. All such records shall be maintained on a generally 
43 of 311

--- page 44 ---
-5- 
 
accepted accounting basis and shall be clearly identified and readily accessible. 
CONSULTANT shall provide free access to such books and records to the CITY 
at all times, shall permit the CITY to examine and audit those  books and records, 
shall permit the CITY to make copies of those books and records, and shall 
permit the CITY to inspect all work data, documents, proceedings, and activities 
related to this Agreement for a period of three (3) years from the date of final 
payment under this Agreement. All accounting records shall provide an 
understandable breakdown of costs charged to this Agreement. All records 
encompassed by this subparagraph, as well as supporting documentation, shall 
be kept separate from other CONSULTANT documents and records and shall be 
maintained by CONSULTANT for three (3) years after CONSULTANT'S receipt of 
final payment under this Agreement. 
 
CONSULTANT shall bill the CITY within thirty (30) days for all 
compensable activity on the project. 
 
CITY shall pay CONSULTANT within thirty (30) days of receipt of billings. 
If CITY disagrees with any portion of a billing, the CITY shall promptly notify 
CONSULTANT of the disagreement, and the CITY and the CONSULTANT shall 
attempt to resolve the disagreement. CITY's payment of any amounts shall not 
constitute a waiver of any disagreement. 
 
SECTION 9 - CHANGES IN WORK 
 
CITY may order changes in scope or character of work, either decreasing 
or increasing the amount of CONSULTANT's services by amending this 
Agreement. In the event that such changes are ordered, CONSULTANT shall be 
entitled to full compensation for all work performed prior to receipt of notice of 
change. In no event shall CITY be liable for payment unless the amount of such 
extra compensation shall first have been agreed to in writing by CITY. 
 
In the event that changes are ordered pursuant to this section, the 
schedule for progress and completion in Section 7 of this Agreement and 
compensation in Section 8 of this Agreement shall be adjusted by negotiation 
between CONSULTANT and CITY, subject to approval, if necessary by the San 
Mateo City Council. 
44 of 311

--- page 45 ---
-6- 
 
SECTION 10 - CONFLICT OF INTEREST 
 
CONSULTANT understands that its professional responsibility is solely to 
CITY. CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and will not 
acquire any interest, direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would 
conflict in any manner or degree with the performance of the services under this 
Agreement. CONSULTANT shall not knowingly, and shall take reasonable steps 
to ensure that, it does not employ a person having such an interest in the 
performance of this Agreement. If after employment of a person, CONSULTANT 
discovers that it has employed a person with a direct or indirect interest that 
would conflict with its performance of this Agreement, CONSULTANT shall 
promptly sever the employment relationship. 
 
SECTION 11 - TERMINATION 
 
A. 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have 
by law, CITY may, by ten days written notice to CONSULTANT, terminate this 
Agreement in whole or in part at any time, either for CITY'S convenience or 
because of the failure of CONSULTANT to fulfill its agreement obligations.  Upon 
receipt and within ten days of such notice CONSULTANT shall: 
 
1. 
Immediately discontinue all services affected (unless the notice 
directs otherwise); and 
 
2. 
Deliver to CITY all data, documents, reports, estimates, summaries 
and such other information and materials as may have been accumulated by 
CONSULTANT in performing this Agreement, whether completed or in progress. 
 
B. 
If the termination is for the convenience of CITY, CONSULTANT shall be 
compensated for all authorized work performed prior to notification of 
termination but no amount shall be allowed for anticipated profit on 
unperformed services. 
 
C. 
If, after any notice of termination for failure to fulfill agreement obligations, 
it is determined by a court or other arbitrator that CONSULTANT had not so 
failed, the termination shall be deemed to have been effected for the convenience 
of CITY.  In such event, adjustment in the agreement price shall be made as 
provided in paragraph (B) of this section. 
 
D. 
CONSULTANT may terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the 
project upon sixty (60) days written notice to CITY, but only in the event of 
substantial failure of performance by CITY or in the event CITY abandons or 
indefinitely postpones the Project. 
45 of 311

--- page 46 ---
-7- 
 
E. 
Upon termination of this Agreement or suspension of work on the project 
by either CITY or CONSULTANT, all duties of CITY and CONSULTANT as set forth 
in Sections 5 and 6 herein above shall terminate. 
 
SECTION 12 - STATUS OF REPORTS 
 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this 
Agreement, although instruments of professional service, are and shall be the 
property of the CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or 
not. All documents furnished to CONSULTANT by the CITY and all reports and 
supportive data prepared by the CONSULTANT in connection with the 
performance of this Agreement are the CITY'S property and shall be delivered to 
the CITY upon the completion of CONSULTANT'S services or at the CITY'S written 
request. All reports, information, data, and exhibits prepared or assembled by 
CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of its services pursuant to 
this Agreement are confidential until released by the CITY to the public, and the 
CONSULTANT shall not make any of these documents or information available 
to any individual or organization not employed by the CONSULTANT or the CITY 
without the written consent of the CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 13 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and 
three years thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the 
insurance as specified in this section of the Agreement. 
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
1. 
Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office 
(ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, 
including products-completed operations, personal & advertising 
injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit 
shall apply separately to this project/location or the general 
aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
 
2. 
Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any 
auto (Code 1), or if CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 
8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. 
Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, 
with Statutory Limits, and Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit 
of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease. 
46 of 311

--- page 47 ---
-8- 
 
4. 
Professional 
Liability 
(Errors 
and 
Omissions): 
Insurance 
appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s profession, with limit no less 
than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate. 
 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown 
above, the City requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits 
maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the 
following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
 
The City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, 
and agents are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy for liability arising 
out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the 
CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work 
or operations performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, 
parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations. 
General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the 
CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or 
both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance 
coverage shall be primary insurance as respects the City of San Mateo, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self- 
insurance maintained by the City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, or agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance 
and shall not contribute with it. 
 
Notice of Cancellation 
 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall 
not be canceled, except after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days 
for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation 
which any insurer of said CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue 
47 of 311

--- page 48 ---
-9- 
 
of the payment of any loss under such insurance. CONSULTANT agrees to obtain 
any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but 
this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver 
of subrogation endorsement from the insurer. 
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and 
approved by the City. The City may require the CONSULTANT to purchase 
coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of ability to pay 
losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses 
within the retention. 
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating 
of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and 
amendatory endorsements or copies of the applicable policy language effecting 
coverage required by this clause. All certificates and endorsements are to be 
received and approved by the City before work commences. However, failure to 
obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the 
CONSULTANT’s obligation to provide them. The City reserves the right to require 
complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including 
endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
 
SECTION 14 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal 
services of CONSULTANT and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted 
by CONSULTANT without the prior written consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 15 - INDEMNITY 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY of San Mateo, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, from and against any 
alleged claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s 
performance of this Agreement, except those claims arising out of CITY’s active 
negligence or willful misconduct. CONSULTANT agrees to defend CITY of San 
Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, against any 
such claims. 
 
With regard to design professional services performed by CONSULTANT, 
48 of 311

--- page 49 ---
-10- 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY of San Mateo, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, from and against any and 
all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense to the extent arising out of 
CONSULTANT’s negligence, recklessness, or willful misconduct. CONSULTANT 
agrees to defend CITY of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents, against any such claims to the extent of CONSULTANT’s 
negligence, recklessness, or willful misconduct. 
 
SECTION 16 - WAIVERS 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, 
or condition of this Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall 
not be deemed to be a waiver of such term, covenant, condition, ordinance or 
law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of any other term, 
covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation 
of the same or of any other term, condition, ordinance, or law. The subsequent 
acceptance by either party of any fee or other money which may become due 
hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding breach or violation 
by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of 
any applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEYS FEES 
 
Attorney fees in an amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and 
in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the 
provisions of this Agreement. The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees 
recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and 
regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions. It is the intent 
of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 
for attorney’s fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of 
this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and 
shall comply with applicable regulations governing equal employment 
opportunity. Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its sub-consultants shall 
discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or 
age, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the 
California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
 
 
 
49 of 311

--- page 50 ---
-11- 
 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request 
that it be submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 
days of a request. The mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in 
the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one name from 
mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the California 
State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The 
mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party 
shall be deemed the prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal 
action without first meeting in mediation and making a good faith attempt to 
reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once commenced by a 
meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties 
but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against 
CITY in connection with CONSULTANT'S services under this Agreement. Unless 
the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or is based upon CONSULTANT'S 
wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation of testimony 
and travel at CONSULTANT'S standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage 
prepaid, addressed as follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Laura Webb  
 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
Hatem Ahmed, PE 
 
CSG Consultants, Inc. 
 
550 Pilgrim Drive 
 
Foster City, CA 94404 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL UNDERSTANDINGS; 
AMENDMENTS 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between 
CITY and CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, 
and agreements, either written or oral. 
50 of 311

--- page 51 ---
-12- 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by 
both CITY and CONSULTANT. 
 
SECTION 23 – AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its 
business and to execute, deliver, and perform the Agreement. Each party 
warrants that the individuals who have signed this Agreement have the legal 
power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each respective 
party. 
 
SECTION 24 – SEVERABILITY 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or 
otherwise unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining 
provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 25 - GOVERNING LAW 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California. 
 
SECTION 26 - VENUE 
In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
51 of 311

--- page 52 ---
-13- 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY and CONSULTANT have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
CSG Consultants, 
a municipal corporation                              CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Brad B. Underwood  
 
 
      Cyrus Kianpour, President  
Public Works Director 
        
      By Its Authorized Agent  
  
 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
 
 
Caio Arellano, Assistant City Attorney 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Project Schedule 
Exhibit C: 
Rate and Cost Schedule Including Hourly Rates, Sub-Consultants and 
Reimbursable Expenses 
Exhibit D: 
City of San Mateo Insurance Requirement
52 of 311

--- page 53 ---
EXHIBIT A: 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
53 of 311

--- page 54 ---
Scope of Services 
 
The Consultant will provide consulting services for sanitary sewer rehabilitation for all project elements 
listed in this Scope of Services. Each task order’s detailed scope and fee negotiations will be executed 
in three phases for the sewer rehabilitation project as shown below and further defined in this Scope 
of Services: 
 
Phase 1 
Task 1 ‐ General Services 
Task 2 ‐ Video Inspection & Cleaning Services 
 
Phase 2 
Task 1 ‐ General Services 
Task 3 ‐ Evaluation of Video Inspection Data 
Task 4 ‐ Project Design and Construction Documents 
Task 5 ‐ Bid Support 
 
Phase 3 
Task 1 ‐ General Services 
Task 6 ‐ Construction Phase Services 
 
Typical tasks that are required of the Consultant under these categories are detailed in the following 
sections. Throughout the design of this project, the Consultant will submit deliverables for review 
and approval by the City and other governing agencies as required. A preliminary description of 
proposed deliverables has been provided in this Scope of Services and will be finalized during 
contract and fee negotiations. 
 
The deliverables required by the Consultant will vary depending on the necessary improvements to 
the sewer lines defined for each basin. All drawings and maps shall be developed using AutoCAD, 
ArcGIS and PDFs capable of plotting at a legible scale, on both 11x17” and 22x34” sheets. 
Additional deliverable information is provided in the various task descriptions below. 
 
For the 60%, 90%, and 100% design submittals, the Consultant shall attend a review meeting with City 
staff where the submittals will be presented to the City and will demonstrate that previous City 
comments have been addressed in the submittal. 
 
The City reserves the right to discontinue, alter, or postpone services at any time. 
 
 
 
 
54 of 311

--- page 55 ---
Task 1 – General Services 
 
Project management and coordination include tasks that will be performed by the Consultant 
throughout the project. Task 1 will cover all general services required for Phase 1, Phase 2 and 
Phase 3 for the sewer line rehabilitation project. These services include: 
 
General Project Management and Coordination 
 
Risk Management 
 
Workshops and Meetings 
 
Management of Subconsultants and Subcontractors 
 
Agency Coordination and City Meeting Support 
Further information regarding expectations for these services will be issued as a separate 
program standard in the Design Standards and Guidelines, prior to the first phase negotiations. 
 
Task 1.1 – Project Management 
Task 1.1.1 – General Management 
The Consultant will be responsible for detailed management of the project, including 
subconsultants and subcontractors, and will keep the City appraised of the status of the project. 
 
The Consultant will provide the key management personnel as described in their proposal on this 
project. The Consultant will not reassign the key project personnel without prior approval of the City 
per the Standard Agreement for Professional Consultant Services. 
 
Task 1.1.2 – Progress Report 
The Consultant will prepare and submit monthly progress reports that include a narrative of the 
work completed by task, project action item log, upcoming work, project issues, budget and 
schedule status, percent complete, cost to complete, earned value versus actual spent analysis, 
potential scope or budget changes, and other important project information. The monthly progress 
report will be submitted with the project invoice as part of the monthly request for payment. 
 
Task 1.1.3 – Project Invoices 
The Consultant will prepare and submit monthly invoices in accordance with Program standards. The 
invoices will document the man‐hours and billing rates for staff for each task in the WBS, as well as 
overhead, profit and any direct costs. The current and previous billing period invoicing, as well as a 
summary of the budget spent, budget remaining, cost to complete, and all backup documentation 
for expenses will be included. The monthly progress report and project schedule will be submitted 
with the project invoice as part of the monthly request for payment. 
 
Task 1.1.4 – Progress Schedule 
The Consultant will prepare a cost loaded project schedule in significant detail to calculate a monthly 
earned value of work performed. The selection of tasks and task durations will be approved by the 
City. The Consultant will prepare a planned value curve for the Project. Prior to invoice submittal, the 
Consultant will evaluate the percent complete for each activity worked on during the billing period. 
The Consultant will calculate the earned value for the month. The earned value will be compared to 
the planned value and the actual invoice value for the month. The Consultant will need to justify any 
requests for monies over the planned value and explain how the overall budget will be met over the 
life of the project. 
 
55 of 311

--- page 56 ---
Task 1.2 – Risk Management 
The Consultant will lead the development and maintenance of a Risk Management Plan in 
coordination with the Program’s risk management team. This will include an initial meeting with the 
City to identify and mitigate potential risk to the project. The risk meeting will be conducted within 
one month after Notice to Proceed and will be addressed as needed throughout the course of the 
project. This meeting will be about one hour in length and may be combined with other meetings 
between the City and Consultant. Consultant shall keep the Risk Management Plan up to date 
throughout the work. 
 
Task 1.3 – Workshops and Meetings 
The Consultant will prepare and submit to the City an agenda and meeting minutes for each formal 
meeting or workshop and hold progress meetings. Assume monthly meetings for CCTV work, monthly 
for design work and monthly for services during construction. 
 
Task 1.4 – Quality Control 
The Consultant will develop a Quality Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC) Plan for implementation of the 
Scope of Work. The Consultant’s QA/QC Plan will be reviewed and approved by the City Project 
Manager and will include or reference all the controls necessary for implementation. QA/QC Plans shall 
include detailed requirements for providing the required integrity for all field work, including 
conducting the explorations, sampling, and sample custody and transport. All QA/QC procedures for 
laboratory work shall be included. Each submittal, or partial submittal of testing results shall be 
accompanied by a written certification, signed by the Consultant’s Project Manager and the 
responsible individual from the applicable subconsultant, stating that all QA/QC procedures have been 
complied with for the information or submittal being delivered to the City. 
 
Submittals that do not include the written certification of compliance or that contain gross 
deficiencies or errors requiring a significant amount of the City staff time for checking will be 
returned without review until the City is satisfied that a thorough Consultant’s review, compliance 
with standards, checking and correction for coherence, consistency, spelling,  etc., has been 
performed. 
 
Task 1.5 – Management of Subconsultants 
If the Consultant requires the services of any subconsultants, then the Consultant will include a list of 
them in the proposal, explain why they are needed, and provide a general description of their effort. 
The Consultant will manage the activities of subconsultants during performance of the project. All 
requirements of the contract shall also apply to subconsultants. 
 
Task 1.6 – Agency Coordination 
The Consultant will assist the City in coordinating the project with various local/county, 
state/regional, and federal agencies. This task includes attending meetings, as needed, with 
applicable agencies, providing meeting minutes, and providing project information and exhibits to 
the agencies. This task is established as an allowance task and shall only be used when specifically 
requested by the City in writing. Costs for this task shall be invoiced as a separate line item and shall 
include a copy of the authorization from the City. 
 
 
56 of 311

--- page 57 ---
Task 2 –Video Inspection and Cleaning Services 
 
This task should be conducted independently, on an as‐needed basis as determined by the City, for 
each sewer rehabilitation project awarded to the Consultant. 
 
Task 2.1 Contract Book and Plans 
For the sewer rehabilitation projects where the City has deemed video inspection and cleaning 
services are required, the Consultant will create a Contract Book and Plans showing all sewer lines 
and manholes within project limits.  The City will provide the Consultant with project limits, current 
GIS data, and sample Contract Books.  The Consultant will provide drafts of each document until all 
City reviewers are satisfied and the project has been deemed ready for the Consultant’s CCTV 
subcontractor to perform the work. The Consultant’s subcontractor should follow City Standard 
CCTV Guidelines. Refer to the City of San Mateo Sewer System Management Plan (SSMP), 
Appendix 4.2. 
 
Task 2.2 Pipe and Manhole Inspections and Cleaning 
The Consultant will manage their CCTV subconsultant while the investigation and cleaning 
operations occur. Consultant will be NASSCO PACP and MACP certified to assist the Contractor 
(who will also be NASSCO PACP and MACP certified) when evaluating pipe and manhole 
inspections. Consultant shall provide inspection videos and reports to the City as they receive them 
from their CCTV subcontractor. Consultant will begin Task 3 operations concurrently with Task 2.2 
for the same project.   
 
Task 3 – Evaluation of Video Inspection Data 
 
This task should be conducted independently for each sewer rehabilitation project awarded to the 
Consultant. 
 
Task 3.1 Evaluation Technical Memorandum 
The consultant will be responsible for reviewing and evaluating the video inspection data provided 
to them for sanitary sewer mains and manholes. The consultant will then prioritize repairs based 
on the available project budget, the urgency of the repairs, and the value of the repair to 
maintenance and operation of the sewer system with the City’s input. 
The results of this evaluation shall be included in a technical memorandum provided to the City. 
 
Task 4 – Project Design and Construction Documents 
 
This task should be conducted independently for each sewer rehabilitation project awarded to the 
Consultant.  Consultant shall design repairs or improvements resulting from the inspection 
evaluation. Consultant shall provide drawings for each repair or improvement and compile them 
into one or more project packages as agreed with the City. The design work entails taking the 
video inspection evaluation (Task 3) and designing the changes that will be required to repair any 
broken pipes or manholes. 
 
 
 
57 of 311

--- page 58 ---
Task 4.1 – 60% Design Development 
The design activities and design elements shall become more concrete once the projects are 
assigned and shall be at a 60% level of completion. 
 
A statement signed by Consultant’s Project Manager that all deliverables have been reviewed 
or otherwise checked in full conformance with the Consultants QA/QC Plan will be required. 
 
All design work shall be in conformance with the Clean Water Program design guidelines and 
standards which will be provided to the Consultant during the negotiation phase. 
 
The 60% design deliverable shall include 4 hard copies (using 11 x 17 drawings) and one print ready 
PDF on electronic media acceptable to the City of all deliverables. 
 
Task 4.1.1 – Field Investigations 
The Consultant shall conduct field investigations as required to verify if there are any potential 
impacts to/from surrounding features that need to be addressed in the design for each sewer rehab 
location. The City will provide ArcGIS information in relation to the specific locations that is identified 
for rehab to the Consultant for use on the project. 
 
The field investigation shall note all obstructions that may be affected by the needed 
improvements. The Consultant shall conduct a thorough investigation at easement locations, 
which includes taking pictures of upstream and downstream manholes, and documenting any 
obstacles in the way. The Consultant will be responsible for obtaining all permits and access 
agreements to perform the survey, as well as providing any necessary traffic control. 
 
This work shall be completed before commencing with Task 4.2. 
 
If a Subconsultant is used for this work, the Consultant will identify the Subconsultant with the 
response to this RFP. 
 
Task 4.1.2 – 60% Design Submittal 
The design submittal at 60% shall include initial design drawings, calculations, databases, 
specifications, schedule and any other project documentation to support this submittal. Consultant 
shall provide plan and profile drawings for any segment where the repairs cross roadways, or 
additional locations as requested by the City. Point repairs (i.e. 6’ length repairs) in roadways will not 
be required to be designed with plan and profile drawings, unless specifically requested by the City. 
 
Task 4.2 – 90% Design Development 
This task shall be conducted independently for each sewer rehabilitation project awarded to the 
Consultant. All design work shall be in conformance with the Clean Water Program design guidelines 
and standards, which will be provided to the Consultant during the negotiation phase. 
 
For the 90% Design Submittal, the major design elements shall be well‐established and essentially 
complete. All supplementary/auxiliary design elements shall be incorporated between the 60% and 
90% Design Submittals for a complete design package. Drawings for all disciplines shall be 
substantially complete. Specifications shall be substantially complete and include all sections and all 
divisions including the legal, procedural, and general “front end” sections. 
 
This submittal will include all finished, checked and completed plans and specifications. No new 
58 of 311

--- page 59 ---
drawings and/or specification sections by the Consultant will be expected after this stage. All City 
comments on the previous submittal will have been resolved, rejected, addressed and/or 
incorporated in this submittal. The project is essentially finished and submitted as complete. The only 
missing effort is the City final review and regulatory approval with comment incorporation. 
 
Consultant’s checking will include a review of all deliverables within each discipline (i.e. drawings, 
detailed specifications, project support documentation, etc.) and an inter‐discipline coordination cross‐
check to correct discrepancies among the project documents. 
 
Discipline calculations, databases, construction cost estimates, schedule, and other project support 
documentation will be updated and submitted to the City to reflect the status of the Drawings and 
Detailed Specifications and will support the 90% design submittal workshops. 
 
A construction cost estimate (AACE Class 2) with basis of estimate narrative and construction 
sequencing plan and schedule shall be included with the deliverables. 
 
The 90% design deliverable shall include a statement signed by Consultant’s Project Manager that 
all deliverables have been reviewed or otherwise checked and that they are in full conformance 
with Consultant’s QA/QC Plan. Additionally, the City will require the Consultant to fill out and sign 
the City’s QC Certification form. 
 
The 90% design deliverable shall include 4 hard copies (using 11 x 17 drawings) and one print‐ready 
PDF on electronic media acceptable to the City of all deliverables. 
 
Task 4.3 – 100% Design and Bid Documents 
This task shall be conducted independently for each identified project(s) awarded to the Consultant. 
All design work shall be in conformance with the Clean Water Program design guidelines and 
standards, which will be provided to the Consultant during the negotiation phase. 
 
Following receipt of all City and regulatory review comments on the 90% Design Submittals, the 
Consultant will prepare a Final (100%) Design and will submit the 100% design submittal as a final 
check set. The final check set shall include all bid documents. Prior to submittal, the Consultant will 
have performed an inter‐disciplinary cross‐check of the design changes made since the 90% design 
submittal and corrected the related discrepancies. The Consultant will not add any new drawings or 
make any changes to the plans or specifications that are not a result of comments received by the 
City, regulatory review, or a final in‐house quality control check. Consultant and City shall conduct a 
workshop to verify that all City comments have been addressed and all permit conditions are 
accounted for. After the City’s back‐check review is complete, Consultant shall revise the documents 
and submit Final Bid Documents. 
 
The 100% back‐check design deliverable shall include a statement signed by Consultant’s Project 
Manager that all deliverables have been reviewed or otherwise checked in full conformance with 
Consultant’s QA/QC Plan. 
 
The 100% back‐check design deliverable shall include 4 hard copies and one print‐ready PDF on 
electronic media acceptable to the City of all deliverables. 
 
The Final Bid Documents will include finished, checked and completed plans and specifications, and 
will incorporate all City comments from previous submittals. The Consultant will document in‐house 
59 of 311

--- page 60 ---
changes and submit them to the City along with the Final Bid Documents. 
 
The Final Design submittals will also include all final databases, reports, construction schedules, cost 
estimates, engineering calculations and bid ready project plans and specifications. 
 
All plans, detailed specifications and engineering calculations will be stamped and signed by a 
Registered Engineer in the State of California. 
 
An updated construction cost estimate (AACE Class 1) and construction sequencing plan and schedule 
will be included with the deliverables. 
 
The Final Bid Documents deliverable shall include 5 hard copies (4 sets of 11 x 17 drawings and 1 set 
of full‐size drawings) and one print‐ready PDF on electronic media acceptable to the City of all 
deliverables. The City will print formal Bid Documents. 
 
Task 5 – Bid Period Assistance 
 
This task shall be conducted independently for each identified project(s) awarded to the 
Consultant.  The Consultant shall provide assistance during the bid period, including the 
following: 
 
Participate in the pre‐bid conference, if necessary. 
 
Prepare responses to bidder’s questions. 
 
Prepare addenda to Bid Documents, as needed. 
 
Participate in reviewing alternate equipment and material proposals from the 
contractor, if applicable. 
 
Participate in the evaluation of the submitted bids, furnish consultation and advise to City 
staff, and assist with all the related equipment, cost and other analyses as required to finalize 
the award decision. 
 
Prepare conformed drawings and specifications that incorporate all addenda. The Final 
Conformed Documents deliverable shall include 5 hard copies (using 11 x 17 drawings), 2 full‐size 
drawings sets, and one print ready PDF on electronic media acceptable to the City. 
 
Task 6 – Construction Phase Services 
 
This task shall be conducted independently for each identified project(s) awarded to the 
Consultant. The Consultant shall provide services during construction, which may include the 
following: 
 
Attendance at pre‐construction conference and construction progress meetings 
 
General technical support 
 
Periodic field visits 
 
Submittal review 
 
Request for information responses and review 
 
Change order and contract document modifications preparation and review 
 
Progress payment application review 
 
Construction closeout support 
 
Preparation of record drawings 
 
60 of 311

--- page 61 ---
EXHIBIT B: 
PROJECT SCHEDULE 
 
 
 
Consultant shall prepare a schedule for City review and approval prior to 
issuance of each Task Order. 
61 of 311

--- page 62 ---
Team member
Raw labor 
Cost
Raw Labor 
Cost With 
1% 
escalation
Fringe 
Benefits: 
31.65% of 
direct 
wages
Overhead 
87.43% of 
direct 
wages
General 
Administra
tion 
14.06% of 
direct 
wages
Subtotal
Profit 10%
Hourly 
Billing Rate
Up to 3% 
increase 
1/30/2021-
1/31/2022
Principal Engineer
86.00
$    
86.86
$    
27.22
$    
75.19
$    
12.09
$   
200.50
$  
20.05
$     
230.00
$  
237.00
$     
Senior Engineer
74.00
$    
74.74
$    
23.42
$    
64.70
$    
10.40
$   
172.52
$  
17.25
$     
200.00
$  
206.00
$     
Associate Engineer
64.50
$    
65.15
$    
20.41
$    
56.39
$    
9.07
$      
150.38
$  
15.04
$     
170.00
$  
176.00
$     
Assistant Engineer
56.50
$    
57.07
$    
17.88
$    
49.40
$    
7.94
$      
131.72
$  
13.17
$     
145.00
$  
150.00
$     
Fringe benefits: employee health insurances, vacation, sick and retirement benefits
Overhead: indirect labor, rent, building maintenance, taxes, supplies, travel expenses, and utilities
RATE SCHEDULE
CSG Consultants, Inc.
January 31, 2020 through January 30, 2021
Exhibit C
62 of 311

--- page 63 ---
EXHIBIT D: 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
63 of 311

--- page 64 ---
For Information Only                       
                           CITY OF SAN MATEO 
  
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 
12 07 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, 
personal & advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately 
to this project/location or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence 
limit. 
 
2. Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with 
limit no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, 
and Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for 
bodily injury or disease. 
 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the 
CONSULTANT’s profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or  claim, 
$2,000,000 aggregate. 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City 
requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following 
provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents 
are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, 
leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with 
respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the 
CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work 
or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the 
CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 
and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall 
be primary insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, or agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not 
contribute with it. 
64 of 311

--- page 65 ---
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be 
canceled, except after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has 
been given to the City. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer 
of said CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under 
such insurance. CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be  necessary to 
effect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether  or not the City 
has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer. 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. 
The City may require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or 
retention or provide proof of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, 
and defense expenses within the retention. 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than 
A:VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory 
endorsements or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this 
clause. All certificates and endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before 
work commences. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work 
beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s obligation to provide them. The City reserves 
the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including 
endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
To prevent delay and insure compliance with the requirements of the specifications, the 
insurance certificates and endorsements must be returned to: 
LAURA WEBB, PUBLIC WORKS DEPT.  
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
65 of 311

--- page 66 ---
SAMPLE ENDORSEMENT 
 
POLICY NUMBER: XXXXXXXXX 
 
THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY, 
PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY. 
 
ADDITIONAL INSURED - OWNERS, LESSEES OR CONTRACTORS 
(FORM B) 
 
This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following: 
 
COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART 
AUTOMOBILE LIABILITY COVERAGE PART 
 
SCHEDULE 
 
Name of Person or Organization: 
 
The City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees and agents 
are named as additional insured. 
 
This insurance shall apply as primary insurance as respects any Person, 
Organization, Partnership or Joint Venture named above, and any other insurance 
available to such Person, Organization, Partnership or Joint Venture shall be excess 
and not contributory with the insurance afforded by this policy. 
 
 
NOTE: 
Endorsements must also include documentation for compliance with all 
requirements listed in Agreement Section 13- INSURANCE 
 
66 of 311

--- page 67 ---
-1- 
 
AGREEMENT FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT 
 
On-Call Consulting Services for Annual Sanitary Sewer 
Rehabilitation Projects  
Schaaf & Wheeler 
 
This 
agreement, 
made 
and 
entered 
into 
on __________________ ,  
by  and  between  the  CITY  OF  SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation 
existing under the laws of the State of California, hereinafter referred to as  
"CITY", and Schaaf & Wheeler, Consulting Civil Engineers, a California 
Corporation with offices at 1171 Homestead Road, Suite 255, Santa 
Clara, CA 95050-5485 hereinafter referred to as "CONSULTANT": 
 
R E C I T A L S: 
 
A. 
CITY desires certain professional design services hereinafter 
described. 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these professional 
design services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such 
services and CONSULTANT has offered to provide the required services on the 
terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF PROJECT 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this 
Agreement is described in Exhibit A, Scope of Services, attached and 
incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto 
that CONSULTANT is skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the 
work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill 
of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work consistent with the professional 
skill and care ordinarily provided by consultants practicing at the same time in 
the same or similar locale under the same or similar circumstances and 
CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work. The acceptance of 
CONSULTANT'S work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT 
from said obligation. 
67 of 311

--- page 68 ---
-2- 
 
SECTION 3 - PROJECT COORDINATION/STAFFING 
 
3.1 
CITY 
 
BRAD  B. UNDERWOOD, PUBLIC  WORKS  DIRECTOR, will  be  the 
representative of CITY for all purposes under this Agreement. Deryk Daquigan is 
hereby designated as the Clean Water Program Manager, and Laura Webb is 
hereby designated as the PROJECT MANAGER and shall supervise the day to 
day progress and execution of this Agreement. 
 
3.2 
CONSULTANT 
 
CONSULTANT's services are unique and personal. CONSULTANT shall not 
assign or transfer its interest or obligation under this Agreement without the 
CITY's written consent. CONSULTANT shall not subcontract its duties under this 
Agreement without the CITY's written consent. 
 
CONSULTANT shall assign a single PROJECT DIRECTOR to have overall 
responsibility   for the progress and execution of this Agreement for 
CONSULTANT. Benjamin Shick 
DIRECTOR for CONSULTANT. 
is hereby designated as the 
PROJECT 
 
CONSULTANT shall assign a PROJECT COORDINATOR to represent 
CONSULTANT during the day-to-day work on the Project. 
Benjamin Shick 
is hereby designated as the PROJECT COORDINATOR for CONSULTANT. 
 
CONSULTANT shall assign additional key personnel as follows: 
 
 
 
 
Glen Anderson – Design Manager 
 
 
 
Curran Price – Project Engineer 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, CONSULTANT is specifically authorized to subcontract with 
the following sub-consulting firms to assist in providing the services required by 
this Agreement: 
 
 
 
 
Cornerstone Earth Group 
 
 
 
Kier & Wright 
 
 
 
Presidio Systems, Inc. 
 
 
 
Bess TestLabs, Inc. 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all sub- 
consultants necessary for performance of the CONSULTANT’S scope of work. 
CONSULTANT shall manage, evaluate, and incorporate sub-consultants work 
into the project as necessary. 
68 of 311

--- page 69 ---
-3- 
 
All work on this project shall be accomplished by the above-named 
CONSULTANT'S personnel and sub-consultants. CONSULTANT shall not 
substitute personnel or sub-consultants without the CITY'S written consent. 
 
SECTION 4 - INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services 
required under this Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered 
an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code Section 3353, under control 
of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the result is 
accomplished. Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an 
agent or employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 5 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
 
CONSULTANT'S Services shall be furnished as described below and as 
more particularly described in Exhibit A, Scope of Services. Any changes in the 
Scope of Services must be approved in advance, in writing, by the Public Works 
Director. 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical 
accuracy and coordination of all studies, reports, designs, drawings, 
specifications, and other items furnished by CONSULTANT under this 
Agreement. CONSULTANT shall, without additional compensation, correct or 
revise any errors or deficiencies in its studies, reports, designs, drawings, 
specifications, and other items. 
 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services 
described under this Agreement. 
 
All documents, drawings and specifications relating the project prepared 
by CONSULTANT or CONSULTANT’s approved sub-consultants shall be 
approved, signed, and sealed by professional engineers duly registered in the 
State of California for each required discipline. The Contract Documents 
prepared by CONSULTANT shall provide for a completed project that conforms 
to all applicable national, state and local construction codes and ordinances, 
building, fire, electrical, plumbing and occupancy codes and standards. 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons 
necessary to perform the services of CONSULTANT. No sub-consultant of 
CONSULTANT will be recognized by CITY as such; rather, all sub-consultants 
are deemed to be the agents of CONSULTANT, and CONSULTANT agrees to be 
responsible for their performance. CONSULTANT shall give its personal attention 
to the fulfillment of the provisions of this Agreement by all of its employees and 
sub-consultants, if any, and shall keep the work under its 
69 of 311

--- page 70 ---
-4- 
 
control. If any employee or sub-consultant of CONSULTANT fails or refuses to 
carry out the provisions of this Agreement or appears to be incompetent or to act 
in a disorderly or improper manner, he or she shall be discharged immediately 
from the work under this Agreement on demand of CITY. 
 
CONSULTANT shall furnish CITY with every reasonable opportunity for 
CITY to ascertain that the services of CONSULTANT are being performed in 
accordance with the requirement and intentions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 6 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the 
project. 
 
CITY shall examine all documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall 
render decisions pertaining thereto promptly to avoid unreasonable delay in the 
progress of CONSULTANT'S work. 
 
SECTION 7 - TERM, PROGRESS AND COMPLETION 
 
This Agreement shall be valid for a duration of three (3) years, with up to 
two optional one-year extensions (for a maximum duration of five (5) years).  
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence and 
be completed as set forth in Exhibit B, Project Schedule. 
 
SECTION 8 - PAYMENT 
 
Payment shall be made by the CITY only for services rendered and upon 
submission of a payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work 
performed. In consideration for the full performances of the services and any 
reimbursable expenses set forth in this Agreement, CITY agrees to pay 
CONSULTANT a fee based on verified time and materials not to exceed 
$1,000,000. Requests for payments shall be itemized and correspond to the 
various items of work described in Exhibit A and shall be based on the rate and 
cost schedule set forth in Exhibit C. 
Payment for extra work or changes in the work will not be made unless for 
work authorized in advance in writing by the PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. Prior 
to commencing such extra work or changes, CONSULTANT and CITY shall agree 
upon an estimated not-to-exceed cost for such extra work. In no event shall 
CONSULTANT be paid for additional work that is necessary because of 
CONSULTANT'S errors or oversights. 
 
CONSULTANT shall maintain complete and accurate records as to the 
number of hours worked by persons and the direct costs incurred during each 
phase under this Agreement. All such records shall be maintained on a generally 
70 of 311

--- page 71 ---
-5- 
 
accepted accounting basis and shall be clearly identified and readily accessible. 
CONSULTANT shall provide free access to such books and records to the CITY 
at all times, shall permit the CITY to examine and audit those  books and records, 
shall permit the CITY to make copies of those books and records, and shall 
permit the CITY to inspect all work data, documents, proceedings, and activities 
related to this Agreement for a period of three (3) years from the date of final 
payment under this Agreement. All accounting records shall provide an 
understandable breakdown of costs charged to this Agreement. All records 
encompassed by this subparagraph, as well as supporting documentation, shall 
be kept separate from other CONSULTANT documents and records and shall be 
maintained by CONSULTANT for three (3) years after CONSULTANT'S receipt of 
final payment under this Agreement. 
 
CONSULTANT shall bill the CITY within thirty (30) days for all 
compensable activity on the project. 
 
CITY shall pay CONSULTANT within thirty (30) days of receipt of billings. 
If CITY disagrees with any portion of a billing, the CITY shall promptly notify 
CONSULTANT of the disagreement, and the CITY and the CONSULTANT shall 
attempt to resolve the disagreement. CITY's payment of any amounts shall not 
constitute a waiver of any disagreement. 
 
SECTION 9 - CHANGES IN WORK 
 
CITY may order changes in scope or character of work, either decreasing 
or increasing the amount of CONSULTANT's services by amending this 
Agreement. In the event that such changes are ordered, CONSULTANT shall be 
entitled to full compensation for all work performed prior to receipt of notice of 
change. In no event shall CITY be liable for payment unless the amount of such 
extra compensation shall first have been agreed to in writing by CITY. 
 
In the event that changes are ordered pursuant to this section, the 
schedule for progress and completion in Section 7 of this Agreement and 
compensation in Section 8 of this Agreement shall be adjusted by negotiation 
between CONSULTANT and CITY, subject to approval, if necessary by the San 
Mateo City Council. 
71 of 311

--- page 72 ---
-6- 
 
SECTION 10 - CONFLICT OF INTEREST 
 
CONSULTANT understands that its professional responsibility is solely to 
CITY. CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and will not 
acquire any interest, direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would 
conflict in any manner or degree with the performance of the services under this 
Agreement. CONSULTANT shall not knowingly, and shall take reasonable steps 
to ensure that, it does not employ a person having such an interest in the 
performance of this Agreement. If after employment of a person, CONSULTANT 
discovers that it has employed a person with a direct or indirect interest that 
would conflict with its performance of this Agreement, CONSULTANT shall 
promptly sever the employment relationship. 
 
SECTION 11 - TERMINATION 
 
A. 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have 
by law, CITY may, by ten days written notice to CONSULTANT, terminate this 
Agreement in whole or in part at any time, either for CITY'S convenience or 
because of the failure of CONSULTANT to fulfill its agreement obligations.  Upon 
receipt and within ten days of such notice CONSULTANT shall: 
 
1. 
Immediately discontinue all services affected (unless the notice 
directs otherwise); and 
 
2. 
Deliver to CITY all data, documents, reports, estimates, summaries 
and such other information and materials as may have been accumulated by 
CONSULTANT in performing this Agreement, whether completed or in progress. 
 
B. 
If the termination is for the convenience of CITY, CONSULTANT shall be 
compensated for all authorized work performed prior to notification of 
termination but no amount shall be allowed for anticipated profit on 
unperformed services. 
 
C. 
If, after any notice of termination for failure to fulfill agreement obligations, 
it is determined by a court or other arbitrator that CONSULTANT had not so 
failed, the termination shall be deemed to have been effected for the convenience 
of CITY.  In such event, adjustment in the agreement price shall be made as 
provided in paragraph (B) of this section. 
 
D. 
CONSULTANT may terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the 
project upon sixty (60) days written notice to CITY, but only in the event of 
substantial failure of performance by CITY or in the event CITY abandons or 
indefinitely postpones the Project. 
72 of 311

--- page 73 ---
-7- 
 
E. 
Upon termination of this Agreement or suspension of work on the project 
by either CITY or CONSULTANT, all duties of CITY and CONSULTANT as set forth 
in Sections 5 and 6 herein above shall terminate. 
 
SECTION 12 - STATUS OF REPORTS 
 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this 
Agreement, although instruments of professional service, are and shall be the 
property of the CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or 
not. All documents furnished to CONSULTANT by the CITY and all reports and 
supportive data prepared by the CONSULTANT in connection with the 
performance of this Agreement are the CITY'S property and shall be delivered to 
the CITY upon the completion of CONSULTANT'S services or at the CITY'S written 
request. All reports, information, data, and exhibits prepared or assembled by 
CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of its services pursuant to 
this Agreement are confidential until released by the CITY to the public, and the 
CONSULTANT shall not make any of these documents or information available 
to any individual or organization not employed by the CONSULTANT or the CITY 
without the written consent of the CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 13 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and 
three years thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the 
insurance as specified in this section of the Agreement. 
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
1. 
Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office 
(ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, 
including products-completed operations, personal & advertising 
injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit 
shall apply separately to this project/location or the general 
aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
 
2. 
Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any 
auto (Code 1), or if CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 
8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. 
Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, 
with Statutory Limits, and Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit 
of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease. 
73 of 311

--- page 74 ---
-8- 
 
4. 
Professional 
Liability 
(Errors 
and 
Omissions): 
Insurance 
appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s profession, with limit no less 
than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate. 
 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown 
above, the City requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits 
maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the 
following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
 
The City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, 
and agents are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy for liability arising 
out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the 
CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work 
or operations performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, 
parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations. 
General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the 
CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or 
both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance 
coverage shall be primary insurance as respects the City of San Mateo, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self- 
insurance maintained by the City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, or agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance 
and shall not contribute with it. 
 
Notice of Cancellation 
 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall 
not be canceled, except after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days 
for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation 
which any insurer of said CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue 
74 of 311

--- page 75 ---
-9- 
 
of the payment of any loss under such insurance. CONSULTANT agrees to obtain 
any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but 
this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver 
of subrogation endorsement from the insurer. 
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and 
approved by the City. The City may require the CONSULTANT to purchase 
coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of ability to pay 
losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses 
within the retention. 
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating 
of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and 
amendatory endorsements or copies of the applicable policy language effecting 
coverage required by this clause. All certificates and endorsements are to be 
received and approved by the City before work commences. However, failure to 
obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the 
CONSULTANT’s obligation to provide them. The City reserves the right to require 
complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including 
endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
 
SECTION 14 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal 
services of CONSULTANT and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted 
by CONSULTANT without the prior written consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 15 - INDEMNITY 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY of San Mateo, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, from and against any 
alleged claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s 
performance of this Agreement, except those claims arising out of CITY’s active 
negligence or willful misconduct. CONSULTANT agrees to defend CITY of San 
Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, against any 
such claims. 
 
With regard to design professional services performed by CONSULTANT, 
75 of 311

--- page 76 ---
-10- 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY of San Mateo, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, from and against any and 
all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense to the extent arising out of 
CONSULTANT’s negligence, recklessness, or willful misconduct. CONSULTANT 
agrees to defend CITY of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents, against any such claims to the extent of CONSULTANT’s 
negligence, recklessness, or willful misconduct. 
 
SECTION 16 - WAIVERS 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, 
or condition of this Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall 
not be deemed to be a waiver of such term, covenant, condition, ordinance or 
law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of any other term, 
covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation 
of the same or of any other term, condition, ordinance, or law. The subsequent 
acceptance by either party of any fee or other money which may become due 
hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding breach or violation 
by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of 
any applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEYS FEES 
 
Attorney fees in an amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and 
in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the 
provisions of this Agreement. The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees 
recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and 
regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions. It is the intent 
of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 
for attorney’s fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of 
this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and 
shall comply with applicable regulations governing equal employment 
opportunity. Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its sub-consultants shall 
discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or 
age, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the 
California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
 
 
 
76 of 311

--- page 77 ---
-11- 
 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request 
that it be submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 
days of a request. The mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in 
the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one name from 
mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the California 
State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The 
mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party 
shall be deemed the prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal 
action without first meeting in mediation and making a good faith attempt to 
reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once commenced by a 
meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties 
but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against 
CITY in connection with CONSULTANT'S services under this Agreement. Unless 
the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or is based upon CONSULTANT'S 
wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation of testimony 
and travel at CONSULTANT'S standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
77 of 311

--- page 78 ---
-12- 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage 
prepaid, addressed as follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Laura Webb  
 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
Benjamin Shick 
 
Schaaf & Wheeler 
 
1171 Homestead Road, Suite 255 
 
Santa Clara, CA 95050 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL UNDERSTANDINGS; 
AMENDMENTS 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between 
CITY and CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, 
and agreements, either written or oral. 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by 
both CITY and CONSULTANT. 
 
SECTION 23 – AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its 
business and to execute, deliver, and perform the Agreement. Each party 
warrants that the individuals who have signed this Agreement have the legal 
power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each respective 
party. 
 
SECTION 24 – SEVERABILITY 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or 
otherwise unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining 
provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 25 - GOVERNING LAW 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California. 
 
SECTION 26 - VENUE 
In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
78 of 311

--- page 79 ---
-13- 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY and CONSULTANT have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
Schaaf & Wheeler, 
a municipal corporation 
 
 
       CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
      Brad B. Underwood  
 
 
      By Its Authorized Agent  
      Public Works Director 
 
 
      Charles Anderson, President 
 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
Caio Arellano, Assistant City Attorney 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Project Schedule 
Exhibit C: 
Rate and Cost Schedule Including Hourly Rates, Sub-Consultants and 
Reimbursable Expenses 
Exhibit D: 
City of San Mateo Insurance Requirement
79 of 311

--- page 80 ---
EXHIBIT A: 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
80 of 311

--- page 81 ---
Scope of Services 
 
The Consultant will provide consulting services for sanitary sewer rehabilitation for all project elements 
listed in this Scope of Services. Each task order’s detailed scope and fee negotiations will be executed 
in three phases for the sewer rehabilitation project as shown below and further defined in this Scope 
of Services: 
 
Phase 1 
Task 1 ‐ General Services 
Task 2 ‐ Video Inspection & Cleaning Services 
 
Phase 2 
Task 1 ‐ General Services 
Task 3 ‐ Evaluation of Video Inspection Data 
Task 4 ‐ Project Design and Construction Documents 
Task 5 ‐ Bid Support 
 
Phase 3 
Task 1 ‐ General Services 
Task 6 ‐ Construction Phase Services 
 
Typical tasks that are required of the Consultant under these categories are detailed in the following 
sections. Throughout the design of this project, the Consultant will submit deliverables for review 
and approval by the City and other governing agencies as required. A preliminary description of 
proposed deliverables has been provided in this Scope of Services and will be finalized during 
contract and fee negotiations. 
 
The deliverables required by the Consultant will vary depending on the necessary improvements to 
the sewer lines defined for each basin. All drawings and maps shall be developed using AutoCAD, 
ArcGIS and PDFs capable of plotting at a legible scale, on both 11x17” and 22x34” sheets. 
Additional deliverable information is provided in the various task descriptions below. 
 
For the 60%, 90%, and 100% design submittals, the Consultant shall attend a review meeting with City 
staff where the submittals will be presented to the City and will demonstrate that previous City 
comments have been addressed in the submittal. 
 
The City reserves the right to discontinue, alter, or postpone services at any time. 
 
 
 
 
81 of 311

--- page 82 ---
Task 1 – General Services 
 
Project management and coordination include tasks that will be performed by the Consultant 
throughout the project. Task 1 will cover all general services required for Phase 1, Phase 2 and 
Phase 3 for the sewer line rehabilitation project. These services include: 
 
General Project Management and Coordination 
 
Risk Management 
 
Workshops and Meetings 
 
Management of Subconsultants and Subcontractors 
 
Agency Coordination and City Meeting Support 
Further information regarding expectations for these services will be issued as a separate 
program standard in the Design Standards and Guidelines, prior to the first phase negotiations. 
 
Task 1.1 – Project Management 
Task 1.1.1 – General Management 
The Consultant will be responsible for detailed management of the project, including 
subconsultants and subcontractors, and will keep the City appraised of the status of the project. 
 
The Consultant will provide the key management personnel as described in their proposal on this 
project. The Consultant will not reassign the key project personnel without prior approval of the City 
per the Standard Agreement for Professional Consultant Services. 
 
Task 1.1.2 – Progress Report 
The Consultant will prepare and submit monthly progress reports that include a narrative of the 
work completed by task, project action item log, upcoming work, project issues, budget and 
schedule status, percent complete, cost to complete, earned value versus actual spent analysis, 
potential scope or budget changes, and other important project information. The monthly progress 
report will be submitted with the project invoice as part of the monthly request for payment. 
 
Task 1.1.3 – Project Invoices 
The Consultant will prepare and submit monthly invoices in accordance with Program standards. The 
invoices will document the man‐hours and billing rates for staff for each task in the WBS, as well as 
overhead, profit and any direct costs. The current and previous billing period invoicing, as well as a 
summary of the budget spent, budget remaining, cost to complete, and all backup documentation 
for expenses will be included. The monthly progress report and project schedule will be submitted 
with the project invoice as part of the monthly request for payment. 
 
Task 1.1.4 – Progress Schedule 
The Consultant will prepare a cost loaded project schedule in significant detail to calculate a monthly 
earned value of work performed. The selection of tasks and task durations will be approved by the 
City. The Consultant will prepare a planned value curve for the Project. Prior to invoice submittal, the 
Consultant will evaluate the percent complete for each activity worked on during the billing period. 
The Consultant will calculate the earned value for the month. The earned value will be compared to 
the planned value and the actual invoice value for the month. The Consultant will need to justify any 
requests for monies over the planned value and explain how the overall budget will be met over the 
life of the project. 
 
82 of 311

--- page 83 ---
Task 1.2 – Risk Management 
The Consultant will lead the development and maintenance of a Risk Management Plan in 
coordination with the Program’s risk management team. This will include an initial meeting with the 
City to identify and mitigate potential risk to the project. The risk meeting will be conducted within 
one month after Notice to Proceed and will be addressed as needed throughout the course of the 
project. This meeting will be about one hour in length and may be combined with other meetings 
between the City and Consultant. Consultant shall keep the Risk Management Plan up to date 
throughout the work. 
 
Task 1.3 – Workshops and Meetings 
The Consultant will prepare and submit to the City an agenda and meeting minutes for each formal 
meeting or workshop and hold progress meetings. Assume monthly meetings for CCTV work, monthly 
for design work and monthly for services during construction. 
 
Task 1.4 – Quality Control 
The Consultant will develop a Quality Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC) Plan for implementation of the 
Scope of Work. The Consultant’s QA/QC Plan will be reviewed and approved by the City Project 
Manager and will include or reference all the controls necessary for implementation. QA/QC Plans shall 
include detailed requirements for providing the required integrity for all field work, including 
conducting the explorations, sampling, and sample custody and transport. All QA/QC procedures for 
laboratory work shall be included. Each submittal, or partial submittal of testing results shall be 
accompanied by a written certification, signed by the Consultant’s Project Manager and the 
responsible individual from the applicable subconsultant, stating that all QA/QC procedures have been 
complied with for the information or submittal being delivered to the City. 
 
Submittals that do not include the written certification of compliance or that contain gross 
deficiencies or errors requiring a significant amount of the City staff time for checking will be 
returned without review until the City is satisfied that a thorough Consultant’s review, compliance 
with standards, checking and correction for coherence, consistency, spelling,  etc., has been 
performed. 
 
Task 1.5 – Management of Subconsultants 
If the Consultant requires the services of any subconsultants, then the Consultant will include a list of 
them in the proposal, explain why they are needed, and provide a general description of their effort. 
The Consultant will manage the activities of subconsultants during performance of the project. All 
requirements of the contract shall also apply to subconsultants. 
 
Task 1.6 – Agency Coordination 
The Consultant will assist the City in coordinating the project with various local/county, 
state/regional, and federal agencies. This task includes attending meetings, as needed, with 
applicable agencies, providing meeting minutes, and providing project information and exhibits to 
the agencies. This task is established as an allowance task and shall only be used when specifically 
requested by the City in writing. Costs for this task shall be invoiced as a separate line item and shall 
include a copy of the authorization from the City. 
 
 
83 of 311

--- page 84 ---
Task 2 –Video Inspection and Cleaning Services 
 
This task should be conducted independently, on an as‐needed basis as determined by the City, for 
each sewer rehabilitation project awarded to the Consultant. 
 
Task 2.1 Contract Book and Plans 
For the sewer rehabilitation projects where the City has deemed video inspection and cleaning 
services are required, the Consultant will create a Contract Book and Plans showing all sewer lines 
and manholes within project limits.  The City will provide the Consultant with project limits, current 
GIS data, and sample Contract Books.  The Consultant will provide drafts of each document until all 
City reviewers are satisfied and the project has been deemed ready for the Consultant’s CCTV 
subcontractor to perform the work. The Consultant’s subcontractor should follow City Standard 
CCTV Guidelines. Refer to the City of San Mateo Sewer System Management Plan (SSMP), 
Appendix 4.2. 
 
Task 2.2 Pipe and Manhole Inspections and Cleaning 
The Consultant will manage their CCTV subconsultant while the investigation and cleaning 
operations occur. Consultant will be NASSCO PACP and MACP certified to assist the Contractor 
(who will also be NASSCO PACP and MACP certified) when evaluating pipe and manhole 
inspections. Consultant shall provide inspection videos and reports to the City as they receive them 
from their CCTV subcontractor. Consultant will begin Task 3 operations concurrently with Task 2.2 
for the same project.   
 
Task 3 – Evaluation of Video Inspection Data 
 
This task should be conducted independently for each sewer rehabilitation project awarded to the 
Consultant. 
 
Task 3.1 Evaluation Technical Memorandum 
The consultant will be responsible for reviewing and evaluating the video inspection data provided 
to them for sanitary sewer mains and manholes. The consultant will then prioritize repairs based 
on the available project budget, the urgency of the repairs, and the value of the repair to 
maintenance and operation of the sewer system with the City’s input. 
The results of this evaluation shall be included in a technical memorandum provided to the City. 
 
Task 4 – Project Design and Construction Documents 
 
This task should be conducted independently for each sewer rehabilitation project awarded to the 
Consultant.  Consultant shall design repairs or improvements resulting from the inspection 
evaluation. Consultant shall provide drawings for each repair or improvement and compile them 
into one or more project packages as agreed with the City. The design work entails taking the 
video inspection evaluation (Task 3) and designing the changes that will be required to repair any 
broken pipes or manholes. 
 
 
 
84 of 311

--- page 85 ---
Task 4.1 – 60% Design Development 
The design activities and design elements shall become more concrete once the projects are 
assigned and shall be at a 60% level of completion. 
 
A statement signed by Consultant’s Project Manager that all deliverables have been reviewed 
or otherwise checked in full conformance with the Consultants QA/QC Plan will be required. 
 
All design work shall be in conformance with the Clean Water Program design guidelines and 
standards which will be provided to the Consultant during the negotiation phase. 
 
The 60% design deliverable shall include 4 hard copies (using 11 x 17 drawings) and one print ready 
PDF on electronic media acceptable to the City of all deliverables. 
 
Task 4.1.1 – Field Investigations 
The Consultant shall conduct field investigations as required to verify if there are any potential 
impacts to/from surrounding features that need to be addressed in the design for each sewer rehab 
location. The City will provide ArcGIS information in relation to the specific locations that is identified 
for rehab to the Consultant for use on the project. 
 
The field investigation shall note all obstructions that may be affected by the needed 
improvements. The Consultant shall conduct a thorough investigation at easement locations, 
which includes taking pictures of upstream and downstream manholes, and documenting any 
obstacles in the way. The Consultant will be responsible for obtaining all permits and access 
agreements to perform the survey, as well as providing any necessary traffic control. 
 
This work shall be completed before commencing with Task 4.2. 
 
If a Subconsultant is used for this work, the Consultant will identify the Subconsultant with the 
response to this RFP. 
 
Task 4.1.2 – 60% Design Submittal 
The design submittal at 60% shall include initial design drawings, calculations, databases, 
specifications, schedule and any other project documentation to support this submittal. Consultant 
shall provide plan and profile drawings for any segment where the repairs cross roadways, or 
additional locations as requested by the City. Point repairs (i.e. 6’ length repairs) in roadways will not 
be required to be designed with plan and profile drawings, unless specifically requested by the City. 
 
Task 4.2 – 90% Design Development 
This task shall be conducted independently for each sewer rehabilitation project awarded to the 
Consultant. All design work shall be in conformance with the Clean Water Program design guidelines 
and standards, which will be provided to the Consultant during the negotiation phase. 
 
For the 90% Design Submittal, the major design elements shall be well‐established and essentially 
complete. All supplementary/auxiliary design elements shall be incorporated between the 60% and 
90% Design Submittals for a complete design package. Drawings for all disciplines shall be 
substantially complete. Specifications shall be substantially complete and include all sections and all 
divisions including the legal, procedural, and general “front end” sections. 
 
This submittal will include all finished, checked and completed plans and specifications. No new 
85 of 311

--- page 86 ---
drawings and/or specification sections by the Consultant will be expected after this stage. All City 
comments on the previous submittal will have been resolved, rejected, addressed and/or 
incorporated in this submittal. The project is essentially finished and submitted as complete. The only 
missing effort is the City final review and regulatory approval with comment incorporation. 
 
Consultant’s checking will include a review of all deliverables within each discipline (i.e. drawings, 
detailed specifications, project support documentation, etc.) and an inter‐discipline coordination cross‐
check to correct discrepancies among the project documents. 
 
Discipline calculations, databases, construction cost estimates, schedule, and other project support 
documentation will be updated and submitted to the City to reflect the status of the Drawings and 
Detailed Specifications and will support the 90% design submittal workshops. 
 
A construction cost estimate (AACE Class 2) with basis of estimate narrative and construction 
sequencing plan and schedule shall be included with the deliverables. 
 
The 90% design deliverable shall include a statement signed by Consultant’s Project Manager that 
all deliverables have been reviewed or otherwise checked and that they are in full conformance 
with Consultant’s QA/QC Plan. Additionally, the City will require the Consultant to fill out and sign 
the City’s QC Certification form. 
 
The 90% design deliverable shall include 4 hard copies (using 11 x 17 drawings) and one print‐ready 
PDF on electronic media acceptable to the City of all deliverables. 
 
Task 4.3 – 100% Design and Bid Documents 
This task shall be conducted independently for each identified project(s) awarded to the Consultant. 
All design work shall be in conformance with the Clean Water Program design guidelines and 
standards, which will be provided to the Consultant during the negotiation phase. 
 
Following receipt of all City and regulatory review comments on the 90% Design Submittals, the 
Consultant will prepare a Final (100%) Design and will submit the 100% design submittal as a final 
check set. The final check set shall include all bid documents. Prior to submittal, the Consultant will 
have performed an inter‐disciplinary cross‐check of the design changes made since the 90% design 
submittal and corrected the related discrepancies. The Consultant will not add any new drawings or 
make any changes to the plans or specifications that are not a result of comments received by the 
City, regulatory review, or a final in‐house quality control check. Consultant and City shall conduct a 
workshop to verify that all City comments have been addressed and all permit conditions are 
accounted for. After the City’s back‐check review is complete, Consultant shall revise the documents 
and submit Final Bid Documents. 
 
The 100% back‐check design deliverable shall include a statement signed by Consultant’s Project 
Manager that all deliverables have been reviewed or otherwise checked in full conformance with 
Consultant’s QA/QC Plan. 
 
The 100% back‐check design deliverable shall include 4 hard copies and one print‐ready PDF on 
electronic media acceptable to the City of all deliverables. 
 
The Final Bid Documents will include finished, checked and completed plans and specifications, and 
will incorporate all City comments from previous submittals. The Consultant will document in‐house 
86 of 311

--- page 87 ---
changes and submit them to the City along with the Final Bid Documents. 
 
The Final Design submittals will also include all final databases, reports, construction schedules, cost 
estimates, engineering calculations and bid ready project plans and specifications. 
 
All plans, detailed specifications and engineering calculations will be stamped and signed by a 
Registered Engineer in the State of California. 
 
An updated construction cost estimate (AACE Class 1) and construction sequencing plan and schedule 
will be included with the deliverables. 
 
The Final Bid Documents deliverable shall include 5 hard copies (4 sets of 11 x 17 drawings and 1 set 
of full‐size drawings) and one print‐ready PDF on electronic media acceptable to the City of all 
deliverables. The City will print formal Bid Documents. 
 
Task 5 – Bid Period Assistance 
 
This task shall be conducted independently for each identified project(s) awarded to the 
Consultant.  The Consultant shall provide assistance during the bid period, including the 
following: 
 
Participate in the pre‐bid conference, if necessary. 
 
Prepare responses to bidder’s questions. 
 
Prepare addenda to Bid Documents, as needed. 
 
Participate in reviewing alternate equipment and material proposals from the 
contractor, if applicable. 
 
Participate in the evaluation of the submitted bids, furnish consultation and advise to City 
staff, and assist with all the related equipment, cost and other analyses as required to finalize 
the award decision. 
 
Prepare conformed drawings and specifications that incorporate all addenda. The Final 
Conformed Documents deliverable shall include 5 hard copies (using 11 x 17 drawings), 2 full‐size 
drawings sets, and one print ready PDF on electronic media acceptable to the City. 
 
Task 6 – Construction Phase Services 
 
This task shall be conducted independently for each identified project(s) awarded to the 
Consultant. The Consultant shall provide services during construction, which may include the 
following: 
 
Attendance at pre‐construction conference and construction progress meetings 
 
General technical support 
 
Periodic field visits 
 
Submittal review 
 
Request for information responses and review 
 
Change order and contract document modifications preparation and review 
 
Progress payment application review 
 
Construction closeout support 
 
Preparation of record drawings 
 
87 of 311

--- page 88 ---
EXHIBIT B: 
PROJECT SCHEDULE 
 
 
 
Consultant shall prepare a schedule for City review and approval prior to 
issuance of each Task Order. 
88 of 311

--- page 89 ---
ATTACHMENT C 
RATE AND COST SCHEDULE 
Schaaf & Wheeler, Consulting Civil Engineers 
As of January 27, 2020 
On‐Call Consulting Services for Annual Sanitary Sewer 
Rehabilitation 
 
Rate Fee Basis 
1. Hourly charge basis will consist of the following: 
 
 
Direct Wages: actual hourly salary for each individual 
 
Fringe Benefits: 36.8% of direct wages (within regional standards) 
 
Overhead: 149.2% of direct wages (within regional standards) 
 
Profit: 12% (12% maximum applies to all Clean Water Program design contracts) 
 
2. Hourly billing rates are effective from January 27, 2020 through January 26, 2021. Hourly and unit 
rates may be renegotiated by the Consultant and the City on an annual basis. Requests to revise the 
hourly and unit rates must be made in writing, thirty (30) calendar days prior to the requested 
changes taking effect.  Maximum increases shall not exceed an average of 3% per year. 
Expenses 
 
1. Bay Area Staff 
 
Personal use vehicles for Project Business and Visits to Sites ‐ Vehicle Mileage (per mile) at Current 
Federal Travel Regulation (FTR). 
 
2. Non‐Bay Area Staff 
 
Travel meals and hotel at Federal GSA per diem rate/day as published on the USGSA website. 
 
Rental car, airline tickets, and other miscellaneous travel costs at actual cost. Receipts for all costs 
over $25 shall be maintained and submitted with invoices. 
 
3. Subconsultant charges at cost plus 5% markup. 
 
4. Outside printing services at cost, with prior approval. 
 
5. Other direct project related costs at cost, with prior approval. 
Other 
1. Budget changes, rate increases, and any allocation of contingency dollars shall be approved by City 
Program Manager in advance of incurring any cost. 
89 of 311

--- page 90 ---
TEAM MEMBER
Hourly Billing Rate
Anderson, Glen
$275.48
Fagan, Cassandra
$147.35
Fox, Logan 
$152.15
Johnson, Larry 
$182.58
Nyo, Brandon
$115.32
Ondracek, Jonathan
$129.73
Pinkerton, Jill
$147.35
Price, Curran
$172.97
Shick, Benjamin
$336.34
RATE SCHEDULE
SCHAAF & WHEELER, CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS
January 27, 2020 to January 26, 2021
ON‐CALL CONSULTING SERVICES FOR ANNUAL SEWER BASIN 
REHABILITATION 
90 of 311

--- page 91 ---
PRINCIPAL
$ 261.00/Hour
PRINCIPAL ENGINEER
$ 237.00/Hour
SENIOR ENGINEER
$ 206.00/Hour
PROJECT ENGINEER
$ 192.00/Hour
ENGINEER II
$ 160.00/Hour
ENGINEER I
$ 133.00/Hour
SENIOR SURVEYOR
$ 213.00/Hour
PROJECT SURVEYOR
$ 190.00/Hour
SURVEY COORDINATOR
$ 182.00/Hour
SURVEYOR II
$ 153.00/Hour
SURVEYOR I
$ 131.00/Hour
ENGINEERING TECH II
$ 173.00/Hour
ENGINEERING TECH I
$ 156.00/Hour
SENIOR DRAFTSMAN
$ 133.00/Hour
DRAFTSMAN II
$ 110.00/Hour
DRAFTSMAN I
$ 100.00/Hour
SURVEY TECH
$ 102.00/Hour
1-MAN SURVEY CREW
$ 185.00/Hour
2-MAN SURVEY CREW
$ 301.00/Hour
3-MAN SURVEY CREW
$ 381.00/Hour
TESTIMONY (TRIAL OR 
DEPOSITION)
$ 509.00/Hour
PROJECT COORDINATOR
$ 109.00/Hour
ENGINEERING COORDINATOR
$ 95.00/Hour
ENGINEERING / SURVEY INTERN
$ 55.00/Hour
HOURLY RATE SCHEDULE
Effective March 1, 2020 through Feb 28, 2021
All blueprinting and reproduction will be billed at cost plus 10%. 
Time spent for preparation for testimony will be billed in accordance with the above hourly rates.
2850 Collier Canyon Road  •  Livermore, California   •   94551  •   (925) 245‐8788   •   FAX (925) 245‐8796
91 of 311

--- page 92 ---
Prevailing Wage Hourly Fee Rates and Equipment Charges 
Through August 31, 2020 
 
Administrative Assistant 
$90 
Construction Services Administrator 
$120 
Technical Illustrator/CAD Operator 
$135 
Engineering Technician  
$165 
Supervisory Technician 
$165 
Staff Engineer or Geologist 
$165 
Senior Supervisory Technician 
$175 
Senior Staff Engineer or Geologist 
$175 
Project Engineer or Geologist 
$190 
Principal Construction Services 
$190 
Senior Project Engineer or Geologist 
$210 
Principal Engineer or Geologist 
$250 
Senior Principal Engineer or Geologist  
$275 
 
Charges for personnel will be made in accordance with the above rates.  For field engineers, geologists and technicians, regular rates are normal 
workday construction hours (Monday through Friday).  For time spent over 8 hours in a day, time spent after 5 p.m., time spent on swing shifts, 
and time spent on Saturdays by field personnel, overtime rates will be charged at 1.5 times the hourly rate.  Work on Sundays and holidays and 
work in excess of 12 hours in one day will be charged at 2.0 times the hourly rate.  Field rates are based on a 48-hour notice.  For less than a 48-
hour notice, a 10 percent surcharge will be added.  All field personnel, vehicle and equipment charges are portal to portal.  Reproduction of 
project documents will be charged as a project expense.  The hourly rate for professional staff to attend legal proceedings will be 2.0 times the 
hourly rate specified above. 
 
Equipment Charges 
Geotechnical Laboratory Tests 
Vehicle 
$17 per hour 
 
Tests Run 
Tests Run 
Nuclear Density Gauge 
$10 per test 
 
During Normal 
Outside 
55-Gallon Drum 
$95 per drum 
 
Workday Hours 
Workday Hours 
GPS Unit 
$30 per day 
Compaction Curve 
$310 each 
$465 each 
Hand Auger Equipment 
$45 per day 
Compaction Check Point 
$155 each 
$235 each 
Power Auger 
$100 per day 
Plasticity Index 
$220 each 
$330 each 
PDR-1000 Dust Meter (3) 
$300 per day, $1000 per week, $3500 per month 
Sieve/Hydrometer 
$220 each 
$330 each 
PID ppmv or PID ppbv 
$125 per day, $550 per week, $1750 per month 
Moisture Content 
$6 each 
$9 each 
Air Pump  
$75 per day, $350 per week, $1000 per month  
Moisture/Density 
$25 each 
$38 each 
Weather Station 
$75 per day, $350 per week, $1000 per month 
-#200 Wash 
$50 each 
$75 each 
Benkelman Beam 
$150 per day, $700 per week. $2500 per month 
Sieve < ¾ inch Liner (small) 
$115 each 
$170 each 
Double Ring Infiltrometer 
$100 per day 
Sieve > ¾ inch Bucket (Large) 
$200 each 
$300 each 
Dynamic Cone 
$100 per day 
Lime Stability 
$330 each 
$495 each 
Differential Pressure Gauge 
$45 per day 
Consolidation 
$400 each 
$600 
Air Flow Sensors 
Pressure Control Testing 
Depth Sounder 
$45 per day 
$250 per day 
$40 per day 
 
 
Liner and Two Caps 
$10 each 
 
 
Core N One Sampler 
$45 each triplicate sample 
 
 
Core N One Handle 
$50 each 
 
 
Modeling Software 
$25 per hour 
 
 
Plotter 
$5 per plot 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Direct Expenses 
Reimbursement for the direct expenses listed below incurred in connection with the Work will be billed at cost plus 18 percent. 
 
1) 
Drillers, utility locators, laboratories, contractors, hygienists, and consultants 
2) 
Rented vehicles, public transportation, tolls, and air flights 
3) 
Permits and special fees, insurances and licenses required to perform Work 
4) 
Computer programs and rented field equipment 
5) 
Large volume copying of project documents 
6) 
Maps, photographs, and environmental databases 
7) 
Overnight or same day delivery charges 
8) 
Copying or production of over-sized figures and plans 
 
If personnel are assigned to a project 100 miles or more from an office, $125 per diem per person allowance will be charged.  Unless mutually 
agreed in writing, Cornerstone will hold samples collected during the performance of the Work no longer than thirty (30) calendar days after 
their date of collection; project samples requested to be held greater than thirty (30) calendar days will be billed at $100 per every ninety (90) 
calendar days.  If payment is not received within 30 days of invoice date, the samples will be discarded.    
 
Payment 
Payment for Work completed is due upon receipt of Cornerstone’s statement.  Fixed fee or lump sum services will be billed for the agreed fixed 
fee.  A service charge of 1.5 percent per month will be charged on accounts not paid within 30 days. 
 
Prevailing Wage 
Client must notify Cornerstone in writing if the Work is subject to “prevailing wage” under local, state or federal laws.   
92 of 311

--- page 93 ---
These rates represent maximum rates to be charged for services.  All rates are subject to change. 
Hayward (Corporate) | Fresno | Los Angeles | T. (408) 988-0101 | F. (408) 988-0103 
Utility Locating - Ground Penetrating Radar (GPR) - Electromagnetic Pipe Locators 
Structural Concrete Scanning - Potholing Vacuum Excavation - CCTV Pipe Inspection 
Mobile LiDAR Scanning - 3D Scanning - 3D Utility Mapping - www.besstestlab.com 
Attachment – Daily Fee Schedule 2020 
Project Coordination and Processing 
Standard Rate
Prevailing Rate

Project Management 
$1,160.00 

Project Coordination 
$1,000.00 

Licensed Professional (Civil / Surveyor / Geophysicist)
$1,240.00 

LiDAR / UAV / Geophysical Data Processing and Extraction 
$1,000.00 

CAD Technician
$760.00 

Reports / Sketches / Clerical 
$680.00 

Data Processing and Extraction
$1,000.00 
Utility Location

1-Person Utility Designation w/ GPR & EM Pipe Locator 
$1,400.00 
$1,400.00 

2-Person Utility Designation w/ Multi Antenna GPR 
$2,480.00 
$2,480.00 
Potholing and Vacuum Excavation 

2-Person Utility Potholing w/ air vacuum truck 
$2,360.00 
$2,360.00 

1-Person Utility Potholing w/ hydro vacuum truck 
$2,200.00 
$2,200.00 

2-Person Utility Potholing w/ hydro vacuum truck 
$2,880.00 
$2,880.00 

2-Person Key Hole & Surface Restoration w/ equipment 
$2,160.00 
$2,160.00 
Traffic Control

1-Person Traffic Control w/ arrow truck 
$1,160.00 
$1,160.00 

2-Person Traffic Control w/ arrow truck 
$1,840.00 
$1,840.00 

1-Person Flagger / TC Helper
$880.00 
$880.00 
GPR Concrete Scanning and Coring

1-Person GPR Concrete Scanning w/ equipment 
$1,500.00 
$1,740.00 

1-Person Saw Cutting & Coring w/ equipment 
$1,160.00 
$1,160.00 
CCTV Camera – Video Inspection 

2-Person CCTV Pipe Inspection w/ Main Line Crawler Unit 
$2,360.00 
$2,360.00 

2-Person CCTV Pipe Inspection w/ Lateral Line Push Unit 
$2,360.00 
$2,360.00 

2-Person Hydro Flushing w/ hydro vacuum truck
$2,600.00 
$2,600.00 
Surveying and Mapping 

1-Person Survey Crew - GPS / Robotic / 3D Scanner
$1,400.00 
$1,640.00 

2-Person Survey Crew - GPS / Robotic / 3D Scanner
$2,000.00 
$2,320.00 

2-Person Survey Crew - Mobile LiDAR Scanner
$2,600.00 
$2,800.00 

2-Person Survey Crew - UAV Data Collection
$2,000.00 
$2,320.00 
Other, Reimbursable and Direct Costs 

1-Person General Labor Hourly Rate
$110.00 

1-Person Travel Rate, charged from closest dispatch location
$ 75.00 

Traffic Control Plans – non-stamped (per sheet)
$300.00 

Traffic Control Plans – Stamped (per sheet)
$600.00 

Mileage, if applicable
Current IRS Rate 

Lodging and meals, applies when over 50 miles
Current GSA Rate +10% 

Off-Road Vehicle Rental
Cost +10% 

Outside reproductions, shipping, services and consultants
Cost +10% 

Special backfill and resurfacing materials
Cost +10% 

Cost of normal field supplies are included in the above rates.
Notes: 

Over time applies after 8 hours of work and weekends.

Rates above apply to day shift (typical BESS day shift hours are 7:00 AM to 3:30 PM).

Night rate applies outside of normal shift hours.

Overtime after 8hrs up to 12hrs and Saturdays, rate is 1.3 times those shown above.

Overtime after 12hrs, Sundays and Holidays, rate is 1.6 times those shown above.
93 of 311

--- page 94 ---
Ms.

Pres

January 29, 2020

ystenis, Inc.

vlli..

n
License #832413

Schaaf & Wheeler

2200 Range Ave,

Santa Rosa, CA

Ste 201
95403

Attention: Ben Shick
Subject: San Mateo Rate Sheet

Traffic Control is included in rates

Descri

prope

related!

CCTV

CCTV

Industrial Process Controls

159 Wright Brothers Avenue, Livermore, CA 94551

potion of Work

Clean sewer 12" or less in diameter (in
City Right of Way)

Clean sewer main 12" or less in diameter
(in public utility easement on private
y)

Additional sanitary sewer cleaning
Disposal of debris (includes all work
to dewatering, testing and transfer

and inspect sewer main 12" or less
in diameter (in City Right of Way)

and inspect sewer main 12" or less
in diameter (in public utility easement on

private property)

O Level | manhole inspection

e Set Up of inspection equipment

Unit Unit Price

L

i

LF

LF

A
A

2,
se

Construction and Environmental Services + Electrical Services + Pipeline Inspection/Certification

+ (925) 456-8400 Phone
www.presidjosystems.com

“¢ (925) 456-8404 Facsimile

94 of 311


--- page 95 ---
EXHIBIT D: 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
95 of 311

--- page 96 ---
For Information Only                       
                           CITY OF SAN MATEO 
  
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 
12 07 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, 
personal & advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately 
to this project/location or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence 
limit. 
 
2. Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with 
limit no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, 
and Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for 
bodily injury or disease. 
 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the 
CONSULTANT’s profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or  claim, 
$2,000,000 aggregate. 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City 
requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following 
provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents 
are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, 
leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with 
respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the 
CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work 
or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the 
CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 
and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall 
be primary insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, or agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not 
contribute with it. 
96 of 311

--- page 97 ---
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be 
canceled, except after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has 
been given to the City. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer 
of said CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under 
such insurance. CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be  necessary to 
effect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether  or not the City 
has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer. 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. 
The City may require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or 
retention or provide proof of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, 
and defense expenses within the retention. 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than 
A:VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory 
endorsements or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this 
clause. All certificates and endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before 
work commences. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work 
beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s obligation to provide them. The City reserves 
the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including 
endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
To prevent delay and insure compliance with the requirements of the specifications, the 
insurance certificates and endorsements must be returned to: 
LAURA WEBB, PUBLIC WORKS DEPT.  
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
97 of 311

--- page 98 ---
SAMPLE ENDORSEMENT 
 
POLICY NUMBER: XXXXXXXXX 
 
THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY, 
PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY. 
 
ADDITIONAL INSURED - OWNERS, LESSEES OR CONTRACTORS 
(FORM B) 
 
This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following: 
 
COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART 
AUTOMOBILE LIABILITY COVERAGE PART 
 
SCHEDULE 
 
Name of Person or Organization: 
 
The City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees and agents 
are named as additional insured. 
 
This insurance shall apply as primary insurance as respects any Person, 
Organization, Partnership or Joint Venture named above, and any other insurance 
available to such Person, Organization, Partnership or Joint Venture shall be excess 
and not contributory with the insurance afforded by this policy. 
 
 
NOTE: 
Endorsements must also include documentation for compliance with all 
requirements listed in Agreement Section 13- INSURANCE 
 
98 of 311

--- page 99 ---
-1- 
 
AGREEMENT FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT 
 
On-Call Consulting Services for Annual Sanitary Sewer 
Rehabilitation Projects  
Water Works Engineers 
 
This 
agreement, 
made 
and 
entered 
into 
on _________________,  
by  and  between  the  CITY  OF  SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation 
existing under the laws of the State of California, hereinafter referred to as  
"CITY", and Water Works Engineers, LLC (an Arizona Limited Liability 
Company) with offices at 7500 N Dobson Road, Suite 200, Scottsdale, 
Arizona 85256 hereinafter referred to as "CONSULTANT": 
 
R E C I T A L S: 
 
A. 
CITY desires certain professional design services hereinafter 
described. 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these professional 
design services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such 
services and CONSULTANT has offered to provide the required services on the 
terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF PROJECT 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this 
Agreement is described in Exhibit A, Scope of Services, attached and 
incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto 
that CONSULTANT is skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the 
work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill 
of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work. The acceptance of 
CONSULTANT'S work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT 
from said obligation. 
99 of 311

--- page 100 ---
-2- 
 
SECTION 3 - PROJECT COORDINATION/STAFFING 
 
3.1 
CITY 
 
BRAD  B. UNDERWOOD, PUBLIC  WORKS  DIRECTOR, will  be  the 
representative of CITY for all purposes under this Agreement. Deryk Daquigan is 
hereby designated as the Clean Water Program Manager, and Laura Webb is 
hereby designated as the PROJECT MANAGER and shall supervise the day to 
day progress and execution of this Agreement. 
 
3.2 
CONSULTANT 
 
CONSULTANT's services are unique and personal. CONSULTANT shall not 
assign or transfer its interest or obligation under this Agreement without the 
CITY's written consent. CONSULTANT shall not subcontract its duties under this 
Agreement without the CITY's written consent. 
 
CONSULTANT shall assign a single PROJECT DIRECTOR to have overall 
responsibility   for the progress and execution of this Agreement for 
CONSULTANT. 
Mike Fisher 
DIRECTOR for CONSULTANT. 
is 
hereby designated as the PROJECT 
 
CONSULTANT shall assign a PROJECT COORDINATOR to represent 
CONSULTANT during the day-to-day work on the Project. 
Cindy Bertsch is 
hereby designated as the PROJECT COORDINATOR for CONSULTANT. 
 
CONSULTANT shall assign additional key personnel as follows: 
 
 
 
Michael Fisher, PE 
 
 
 
Cindy Bertsch, PE 
 
 
 
Joe Ziemann, PE 
 
 
 
Anthony Baltazar, PE 
 
 
 
Tim Lewis, PE 
 
In addition, CONSULTANT is specifically authorized to subcontract with 
the following sub-consulting firms to assist in providing the services required by 
this Agreement: 
 
 
 
Hoffman Southwest Corp. dba Professional Pipe Services (Pro-Pipe) 
 
 
Bajada Geosciences, Inc. 
 
 
DCM Consulting, Inc. 
 
 
RFE Engineering, Inc. 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all sub- 
consultants necessary for performance of the CONSULTANT’S scope of work. 
CONSULTANT shall manage, evaluate, and incorporate sub-consultants work 
into the project as necessary. 
100 of 311

--- page 101 ---
-3- 
 
All work on this project shall be accomplished by the above-named 
CONSULTANT'S personnel and sub-consultants. CONSULTANT shall not 
substitute personnel or sub-consultants without the CITY'S written consent. 
 
SECTION 4 - INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services 
required under this Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered 
an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code Section 3353, under control 
of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the result is 
accomplished. Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an 
agent or employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 5 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
 
CONSULTANT'S Services shall be furnished as described below and as 
more particularly described in Exhibit A, Scope of Services. Any changes in the 
Scope of Services must be approved in advance, in writing, by the Public Works 
Director. 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical 
accuracy and coordination of all studies, reports, designs, drawings, 
specifications, and other items furnished by CONSULTANT under this 
Agreement. CONSULTANT shall, without additional compensation, correct or 
revise any errors or deficiencies in its studies, reports, designs, drawings, 
specifications, and other items. 
 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services 
described under this Agreement. 
 
All documents, drawings and specifications relating the project prepared 
by CONSULTANT or CONSULTANT’s approved sub-consultants shall be 
approved, signed, and sealed by professional engineers duly registered in the 
State of California for each required discipline. The Contract Documents 
prepared by CONSULTANT shall provide for a completed project that conforms 
to all applicable national, state and local construction codes and ordinances, 
building, fire, electrical, plumbing and occupancy codes and standards. 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons 
necessary to perform the services of CONSULTANT. No sub-consultant of 
CONSULTANT will be recognized by CITY as such; rather, all sub-consultants 
are deemed to be the agents of CONSULTANT, and CONSULTANT agrees to be 
responsible for their performance. CONSULTANT shall give its personal attention 
to the fulfillment of the provisions of this Agreement by all of its employees and 
sub-consultants, if any, and shall keep the work under its 
101 of 311

--- page 102 ---
-4- 
 
control. If any employee or sub-consultant of CONSULTANT fails or refuses to 
carry out the provisions of this Agreement or appears to be incompetent or to act 
in a disorderly or improper manner, he or she shall be discharged immediately 
from the work under this Agreement on demand of CITY. 
 
CONSULTANT shall furnish CITY with every reasonable opportunity for 
CITY to ascertain that the services of CONSULTANT are being performed in 
accordance with the requirement and intentions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 6 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the 
project. 
 
CITY shall examine all documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall 
render decisions pertaining thereto promptly to avoid unreasonable delay in the 
progress of CONSULTANT'S work. 
 
SECTION 7 - TERM, PROGRESS AND COMPLETION 
 
This Agreement shall be valid for a duration of three (3) years, with up to 
two optional one-year extensions (for a maximum duration of five (5) years).  
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence and 
be completed as set forth in Exhibit B, Project Schedule. 
 
SECTION 8 - PAYMENT 
 
Payment shall be made by the CITY only for services rendered and upon 
submission of a payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work 
performed. In consideration for the full performances of the services and any 
reimbursable expenses set forth in this Agreement, CITY agrees to pay 
CONSULTANT a fee based on verified time and materials not to exceed 
$1,000,000. Requests for payments shall be itemized and correspond to the 
various items of work described in Exhibit A and shall be based on the rate and 
cost schedule set forth in Exhibit C. 
Payment for extra work or changes in the work will not be made unless for 
work authorized in advance in writing by the PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. Prior 
to commencing such extra work or changes, CONSULTANT and CITY shall agree 
upon an estimated not-to-exceed cost for such extra work. In no event shall 
CONSULTANT be paid for additional work that is necessary because of 
CONSULTANT'S errors or oversights. 
 
CONSULTANT shall maintain complete and accurate records as to the 
number of hours worked by persons and the direct costs incurred during each 
phase under this Agreement. All such records shall be maintained on a generally 
102 of 311

--- page 103 ---
-5- 
 
accepted accounting basis and shall be clearly identified and readily accessible. 
CONSULTANT shall provide free access to such books and records to the CITY 
at all times, shall permit the CITY to examine and audit those  books and records, 
shall permit the CITY to make copies of those books and records, and shall 
permit the CITY to inspect all work data, documents, proceedings, and activities 
related to this Agreement for a period of three (3) years from the date of final 
payment under this Agreement. All accounting records shall provide an 
understandable breakdown of costs charged to this Agreement. All records 
encompassed by this subparagraph, as well as supporting documentation, shall 
be kept separate from other CONSULTANT documents and records and shall be 
maintained by CONSULTANT for three (3) years after CONSULTANT'S receipt of 
final payment under this Agreement. 
 
CONSULTANT shall bill the CITY within thirty (30) days for all 
compensable activity on the project. 
 
CITY shall pay CONSULTANT within thirty (30) days of receipt of billings. 
If CITY disagrees with any portion of a billing, the CITY shall promptly notify 
CONSULTANT of the disagreement, and the CITY and the CONSULTANT shall 
attempt to resolve the disagreement. CITY's payment of any amounts shall not 
constitute a waiver of any disagreement. 
 
SECTION 9 - CHANGES IN WORK 
 
CITY may order changes in scope or character of work, either decreasing 
or increasing the amount of CONSULTANT's services by amending this 
Agreement. In the event that such changes are ordered, CONSULTANT shall be 
entitled to full compensation for all work performed prior to receipt of notice of 
change. In no event shall CITY be liable for payment unless the amount of such 
extra compensation shall first have been agreed to in writing by CITY. 
 
In the event that changes are ordered pursuant to this section, the 
schedule for progress and completion in Section 7 of this Agreement and 
compensation in Section 8 of this Agreement shall be adjusted by negotiation 
between CONSULTANT and CITY, subject to approval, if necessary by the San 
Mateo City Council. 
103 of 311

--- page 104 ---
-6- 
 
SECTION 10 - CONFLICT OF INTEREST 
 
CONSULTANT understands that its professional responsibility is solely to 
CITY. CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and will not 
acquire any interest, direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would 
conflict in any manner or degree with the performance of the services under this 
Agreement. CONSULTANT shall not knowingly, and shall take reasonable steps 
to ensure that, it does not employ a person having such an interest in the 
performance of this Agreement. If after employment of a person, CONSULTANT 
discovers that it has employed a person with a direct or indirect interest that 
would conflict with its performance of this Agreement, CONSULTANT shall 
promptly sever the employment relationship. 
 
SECTION 11 - TERMINATION 
 
A. 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have 
by law, CITY may, by ten days written notice to CONSULTANT, terminate this 
Agreement in whole or in part at any time, either for CITY'S convenience or 
because of the failure of CONSULTANT to fulfill its agreement obligations.  Upon 
receipt and within ten days of such notice CONSULTANT shall: 
 
1. 
Immediately discontinue all services affected (unless the notice 
directs otherwise); and 
 
2. 
Deliver to CITY all data, documents, reports, estimates, summaries 
and such other information and materials as may have been accumulated by 
CONSULTANT in performing this Agreement, whether completed or in progress. 
 
B. 
If the termination is for the convenience of CITY, CONSULTANT shall be 
compensated for all authorized work performed prior to notification of 
termination but no amount shall be allowed for anticipated profit on 
unperformed services. 
 
C. 
If, after any notice of termination for failure to fulfill agreement obligations, 
it is determined by a court or other arbitrator that CONSULTANT had not so 
failed, the termination shall be deemed to have been effected for the convenience 
of CITY.  In such event, adjustment in the agreement price shall be made as 
provided in paragraph (B) of this section. 
 
D. 
CONSULTANT may terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the 
project upon sixty (60) days written notice to CITY, but only in the event of 
substantial failure of performance by CITY or in the event CITY abandons or 
indefinitely postpones the Project. 
104 of 311

--- page 105 ---
-7- 
 
E. 
Upon termination of this Agreement or suspension of work on the project 
by either CITY or CONSULTANT, all duties of CITY and CONSULTANT as set forth 
in Sections 5 and 6 herein above shall terminate. 
 
SECTION 12 - STATUS OF REPORTS 
 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this 
Agreement, although instruments of professional service, are and shall be the 
property of the CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or 
not. All documents furnished to CONSULTANT by the CITY and all reports and 
supportive data prepared by the CONSULTANT in connection with the 
performance of this Agreement are the CITY'S property and shall be delivered to 
the CITY upon the completion of CONSULTANT'S services or at the CITY'S written 
request. All reports, information, data, and exhibits prepared or assembled by 
CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of its services pursuant to 
this Agreement are confidential until released by the CITY to the public, and the 
CONSULTANT shall not make any of these documents or information available 
to any individual or organization not employed by the CONSULTANT or the CITY 
without the written consent of the CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 13 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and 
three years thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the 
insurance as specified in this section of the Agreement. 
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
1. 
Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office 
(ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, 
including products-completed operations, personal & advertising 
injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit 
shall apply separately to this project/location or the general 
aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
 
2. 
Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any 
auto (Code 1), or if CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 
8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. 
Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, 
with Statutory Limits, and Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit 
of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease. 
105 of 311

--- page 106 ---
-8- 
 
4. 
Professional 
Liability 
(Errors 
and 
Omissions): 
Insurance 
appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s profession, with limit no less 
than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate. 
 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown 
above, the City requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits 
maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the 
following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
 
The City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, 
and agents are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy for liability arising 
out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the 
CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work 
or operations performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, 
parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations. 
General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the 
CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or 
both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance 
coverage shall be primary insurance as respects the City of San Mateo, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self- 
insurance maintained by the City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, or agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance 
and shall not contribute with it. 
 
Notice of Cancellation 
 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall 
not be canceled, except after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days 
for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation 
which any insurer of said CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue 
106 of 311

--- page 107 ---
-9- 
 
of the payment of any loss under such insurance. CONSULTANT agrees to obtain 
any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but 
this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver 
of subrogation endorsement from the insurer. 
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and 
approved by the City. The City may require the CONSULTANT to purchase 
coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of ability to pay 
losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses 
within the retention. 
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating 
of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and 
amendatory endorsements or copies of the applicable policy language effecting 
coverage required by this clause. All certificates and endorsements are to be 
received and approved by the City before work commences. However, failure to 
obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the 
CONSULTANT’s obligation to provide them. The City reserves the right to require 
complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including 
endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
 
SECTION 14 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal 
services of CONSULTANT and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted 
by CONSULTANT without the prior written consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 15 - INDEMNITY 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY of San Mateo, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, from and against any 
alleged claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s 
performance of this Agreement, except those claims arising out of CITY’s active 
negligence or willful misconduct. CONSULTANT agrees to defend CITY of San 
Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, against any 
such claims. 
 
With regard to design professional services performed by CONSULTANT, 
107 of 311

--- page 108 ---
-10- 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY of San Mateo, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, from and against any and 
all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense to the extent arising out of 
CONSULTANT’s negligence, recklessness, or willful misconduct. CONSULTANT 
agrees to defend CITY of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents, against any such claims to the extent of CONSULTANT’s 
negligence, recklessness, or willful misconduct. 
 
SECTION 16 - WAIVERS 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, 
or condition of this Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall 
not be deemed to be a waiver of such term, covenant, condition, ordinance or 
law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of any other term, 
covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation 
of the same or of any other term, condition, ordinance, or law. The subsequent 
acceptance by either party of any fee or other money which may become due 
hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding breach or violation 
by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of 
any applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEYS FEES 
 
Attorney fees in an amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and 
in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the 
provisions of this Agreement. The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees 
recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and 
regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions. It is the intent 
of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 
for attorney’s fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of 
this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and 
shall comply with applicable regulations governing equal employment 
opportunity. Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its sub-consultants shall 
discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or 
age, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the 
California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
 
 
 
108 of 311

--- page 109 ---
-11- 
 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request 
that it be submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 
days of a request. The mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in 
the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one name from 
mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the California 
State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The 
mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party 
shall be deemed the prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal 
action without first meeting in mediation and making a good faith attempt to 
reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once commenced by a 
meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties 
but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against 
CITY in connection with CONSULTANT'S services under this Agreement. Unless 
the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or is based upon CONSULTANT'S 
wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation of testimony 
and travel at CONSULTANT'S standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
109 of 311

--- page 110 ---
-12- 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage 
prepaid, addressed as follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Laura Webb  
 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
Michael Fisher 
 
Water Works Engineers, LLC 
 
2260 Douglas Blvd., Suite 105 
 
Roseville, CA 95661 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL UNDERSTANDINGS; 
AMENDMENTS 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between 
CITY and CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, 
and agreements, either written or oral. 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by 
both CITY and CONSULTANT. 
 
SECTION 23 – AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its 
business and to execute, deliver, and perform the Agreement. Each party 
warrants that the individuals who have signed this Agreement have the legal 
power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each respective 
party. 
 
SECTION 24 – SEVERABILITY 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or 
otherwise unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining 
provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 25 - GOVERNING LAW 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California. 
 
 
 
110 of 311

--- page 111 ---
-13- 
 
SECTION 26 - VENUE 
In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY and CONSULTANT have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
Water Works Engineers, LLC  
a municipal corporation 
 
 
       CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
Brad B. Underwood 
By Its Authorized Agent 
Public Works Director 
Michael Fisher  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Managing Member/Principal 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
 
Caio Arellano, Assistant City Attorney 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Project Schedule 
Exhibit C: 
Rate and Cost Schedule Including Hourly Rates, Sub-Consultants and 
Reimbursable Expenses 
Exhibit D: 
City of San Mateo Insurance Requirements
111 of 311

--- page 112 ---
EXHIBIT A: 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
112 of 311

--- page 113 ---
Scope of Services 
 
The Consultant will provide consulting services for sanitary sewer rehabilitation for all project elements 
listed in this Scope of Services. Each task order’s detailed scope and fee negotiations will be executed 
in three phases for the sewer rehabilitation project as shown below and further defined in this Scope 
of Services: 
 
Phase 1 
Task 1 ‐ General Services 
Task 2 ‐ Video Inspection & Cleaning Services 
 
Phase 2 
Task 1 ‐ General Services 
Task 3 ‐ Evaluation of Video Inspection Data 
Task 4 ‐ Project Design and Construction Documents 
Task 5 ‐ Bid Support 
 
Phase 3 
Task 1 ‐ General Services 
Task 6 ‐ Construction Phase Services 
 
Typical tasks that are required of the Consultant under these categories are detailed in the following 
sections. Throughout the design of this project, the Consultant will submit deliverables for review 
and approval by the City and other governing agencies as required. A preliminary description of 
proposed deliverables has been provided in this Scope of Services and will be finalized during 
contract and fee negotiations. 
 
The deliverables required by the Consultant will vary depending on the necessary improvements to 
the sewer lines defined for each basin. All drawings and maps shall be developed using AutoCAD, 
ArcGIS and PDFs capable of plotting at a legible scale, on both 11x17” and 22x34” sheets. 
Additional deliverable information is provided in the various task descriptions below. 
 
For the 60%, 90%, and 100% design submittals, the Consultant shall attend a review meeting with City 
staff where the submittals will be presented to the City and will demonstrate that previous City 
comments have been addressed in the submittal. 
 
The City reserves the right to discontinue, alter, or postpone services at any time. 
 
 
 
 
113 of 311

--- page 114 ---
Task 1 – General Services 
 
Project management and coordination include tasks that will be performed by the Consultant 
throughout the project. Task 1 will cover all general services required for Phase 1, Phase 2 and 
Phase 3 for the sewer line rehabilitation project. These services include: 
 
General Project Management and Coordination 
 
Risk Management 
 
Workshops and Meetings 
 
Management of Subconsultants and Subcontractors 
 
Agency Coordination and City Meeting Support 
Further information regarding expectations for these services will be issued as a separate 
program standard in the Design Standards and Guidelines, prior to the first phase negotiations. 
 
Task 1.1 – Project Management 
Task 1.1.1 – General Management 
The Consultant will be responsible for detailed management of the project, including 
subconsultants and subcontractors, and will keep the City appraised of the status of the project. 
 
The Consultant will provide the key management personnel as described in their proposal on this 
project. The Consultant will not reassign the key project personnel without prior approval of the City 
per the Standard Agreement for Professional Consultant Services. 
 
Task 1.1.2 – Progress Report 
The Consultant will prepare and submit monthly progress reports that include a narrative of the 
work completed by task, project action item log, upcoming work, project issues, budget and 
schedule status, percent complete, cost to complete, earned value versus actual spent analysis, 
potential scope or budget changes, and other important project information. The monthly progress 
report will be submitted with the project invoice as part of the monthly request for payment. 
 
Task 1.1.3 – Project Invoices 
The Consultant will prepare and submit monthly invoices in accordance with Program standards. The 
invoices will document the man‐hours and billing rates for staff for each task in the WBS, as well as 
overhead, profit and any direct costs. The current and previous billing period invoicing, as well as a 
summary of the budget spent, budget remaining, cost to complete, and all backup documentation 
for expenses will be included. The monthly progress report and project schedule will be submitted 
with the project invoice as part of the monthly request for payment. 
 
Task 1.1.4 – Progress Schedule 
The Consultant will prepare a cost loaded project schedule in significant detail to calculate a monthly 
earned value of work performed. The selection of tasks and task durations will be approved by the 
City. The Consultant will prepare a planned value curve for the Project. Prior to invoice submittal, the 
Consultant will evaluate the percent complete for each activity worked on during the billing period. 
The Consultant will calculate the earned value for the month. The earned value will be compared to 
the planned value and the actual invoice value for the month. The Consultant will need to justify any 
requests for monies over the planned value and explain how the overall budget will be met over the 
life of the project. 
 
114 of 311

--- page 115 ---
Task 1.2 – Risk Management 
The Consultant will lead the development and maintenance of a Risk Management Plan in 
coordination with the Program’s risk management team. This will include an initial meeting with the 
City to identify and mitigate potential risk to the project. The risk meeting will be conducted within 
one month after Notice to Proceed and will be addressed as needed throughout the course of the 
project. This meeting will be about one hour in length and may be combined with other meetings 
between the City and Consultant. Consultant shall keep the Risk Management Plan up to date 
throughout the work. 
 
Task 1.3 – Workshops and Meetings 
The Consultant will prepare and submit to the City an agenda and meeting minutes for each formal 
meeting or workshop and hold progress meetings. Assume monthly meetings for CCTV work, monthly 
for design work and monthly for services during construction. 
 
Task 1.4 – Quality Control 
The Consultant will develop a Quality Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC) Plan for implementation of the 
Scope of Work. The Consultant’s QA/QC Plan will be reviewed and approved by the City Project 
Manager and will include or reference all the controls necessary for implementation. QA/QC Plans shall 
include detailed requirements for providing the required integrity for all field work, including 
conducting the explorations, sampling, and sample custody and transport. All QA/QC procedures for 
laboratory work shall be included. Each submittal, or partial submittal of testing results shall be 
accompanied by a written certification, signed by the Consultant’s Project Manager and the 
responsible individual from the applicable subconsultant, stating that all QA/QC procedures have been 
complied with for the information or submittal being delivered to the City. 
 
Submittals that do not include the written certification of compliance or that contain gross 
deficiencies or errors requiring a significant amount of the City staff time for checking will be 
returned without review until the City is satisfied that a thorough Consultant’s review, compliance 
with standards, checking and correction for coherence, consistency, spelling,  etc., has been 
performed. 
 
Task 1.5 – Management of Subconsultants 
If the Consultant requires the services of any subconsultants, then the Consultant will include a list of 
them in the proposal, explain why they are needed, and provide a general description of their effort. 
The Consultant will manage the activities of subconsultants during performance of the project. All 
requirements of the contract shall also apply to subconsultants. 
 
Task 1.6 – Agency Coordination 
The Consultant will assist the City in coordinating the project with various local/county, 
state/regional, and federal agencies. This task includes attending meetings, as needed, with 
applicable agencies, providing meeting minutes, and providing project information and exhibits to 
the agencies. This task is established as an allowance task and shall only be used when specifically 
requested by the City in writing. Costs for this task shall be invoiced as a separate line item and shall 
include a copy of the authorization from the City. 
 
 
115 of 311

--- page 116 ---
Task 2 –Video Inspection and Cleaning Services 
 
This task should be conducted independently, on an as‐needed basis as determined by the City, for 
each sewer rehabilitation project awarded to the Consultant. 
 
Task 2.1 Contract Book and Plans 
For the sewer rehabilitation projects where the City has deemed video inspection and cleaning 
services are required, the Consultant will create a Contract Book and Plans showing all sewer lines 
and manholes within project limits.  The City will provide the Consultant with project limits, current 
GIS data, and sample Contract Books.  The Consultant will provide drafts of each document until all 
City reviewers are satisfied and the project has been deemed ready for the Consultant’s CCTV 
subcontractor to perform the work. The Consultant’s subcontractor should follow City Standard 
CCTV Guidelines. Refer to the City of San Mateo Sewer System Management Plan (SSMP), 
Appendix 4.2. 
 
Task 2.2 Pipe and Manhole Inspections and Cleaning 
The Consultant will manage their CCTV subconsultant while the investigation and cleaning 
operations occur. Consultant will be NASSCO PACP and MACP certified to assist the Contractor 
(who will also be NASSCO PACP and MACP certified) when evaluating pipe and manhole 
inspections. Consultant shall provide inspection videos and reports to the City as they receive them 
from their CCTV subcontractor. Consultant will begin Task 3 operations concurrently with Task 2.2 
for the same project.   
 
Task 3 – Evaluation of Video Inspection Data 
 
This task should be conducted independently for each sewer rehabilitation project awarded to the 
Consultant. 
 
Task 3.1 Evaluation Technical Memorandum 
The consultant will be responsible for reviewing and evaluating the video inspection data provided 
to them for sanitary sewer mains and manholes. The consultant will then prioritize repairs based 
on the available project budget, the urgency of the repairs, and the value of the repair to 
maintenance and operation of the sewer system with the City’s input. 
The results of this evaluation shall be included in a technical memorandum provided to the City. 
 
Task 4 – Project Design and Construction Documents 
 
This task should be conducted independently for each sewer rehabilitation project awarded to the 
Consultant.  Consultant shall design repairs or improvements resulting from the inspection 
evaluation. Consultant shall provide drawings for each repair or improvement and compile them 
into one or more project packages as agreed with the City. The design work entails taking the 
video inspection evaluation (Task 3) and designing the changes that will be required to repair any 
broken pipes or manholes. 
 
 
 
116 of 311

--- page 117 ---
Task 4.1 – 60% Design Development 
The design activities and design elements shall become more concrete once the projects are 
assigned and shall be at a 60% level of completion. 
 
A statement signed by Consultant’s Project Manager that all deliverables have been reviewed 
or otherwise checked in full conformance with the Consultants QA/QC Plan will be required. 
 
All design work shall be in conformance with the Clean Water Program design guidelines and 
standards which will be provided to the Consultant during the negotiation phase. 
 
The 60% design deliverable shall include 4 hard copies (using 11 x 17 drawings) and one print ready 
PDF on electronic media acceptable to the City of all deliverables. 
 
Task 4.1.1 – Field Investigations 
The Consultant shall conduct field investigations as required to verify if there are any potential 
impacts to/from surrounding features that need to be addressed in the design for each sewer rehab 
location. The City will provide ArcGIS information in relation to the specific locations that is identified 
for rehab to the Consultant for use on the project. 
 
The field investigation shall note all obstructions that may be affected by the needed 
improvements. The Consultant shall conduct a thorough investigation at easement locations, 
which includes taking pictures of upstream and downstream manholes, and documenting any 
obstacles in the way. The Consultant will be responsible for obtaining all permits and access 
agreements to perform the survey, as well as providing any necessary traffic control. 
 
This work shall be completed before commencing with Task 4.2. 
 
If a Subconsultant is used for this work, the Consultant will identify the Subconsultant with the 
response to this RFP. 
 
Task 4.1.2 – 60% Design Submittal 
The design submittal at 60% shall include initial design drawings, calculations, databases, 
specifications, schedule and any other project documentation to support this submittal. Consultant 
shall provide plan and profile drawings for any segment where the repairs cross roadways, or 
additional locations as requested by the City. Point repairs (i.e. 6’ length repairs) in roadways will not 
be required to be designed with plan and profile drawings, unless specifically requested by the City. 
 
Task 4.2 – 90% Design Development 
This task shall be conducted independently for each sewer rehabilitation project awarded to the 
Consultant. All design work shall be in conformance with the Clean Water Program design guidelines 
and standards, which will be provided to the Consultant during the negotiation phase. 
 
For the 90% Design Submittal, the major design elements shall be well‐established and essentially 
complete. All supplementary/auxiliary design elements shall be incorporated between the 60% and 
90% Design Submittals for a complete design package. Drawings for all disciplines shall be 
substantially complete. Specifications shall be substantially complete and include all sections and all 
divisions including the legal, procedural, and general “front end” sections. 
 
This submittal will include all finished, checked and completed plans and specifications. No new 
117 of 311

--- page 118 ---
drawings and/or specification sections by the Consultant will be expected after this stage. All City 
comments on the previous submittal will have been resolved, rejected, addressed and/or 
incorporated in this submittal. The project is essentially finished and submitted as complete. The only 
missing effort is the City final review and regulatory approval with comment incorporation. 
 
Consultant’s checking will include a review of all deliverables within each discipline (i.e. drawings, 
detailed specifications, project support documentation, etc.) and an inter‐discipline coordination cross‐
check to correct discrepancies among the project documents. 
 
Discipline calculations, databases, construction cost estimates, schedule, and other project support 
documentation will be updated and submitted to the City to reflect the status of the Drawings and 
Detailed Specifications and will support the 90% design submittal workshops. 
 
A construction cost estimate (AACE Class 2) with basis of estimate narrative and construction 
sequencing plan and schedule shall be included with the deliverables. 
 
The 90% design deliverable shall include a statement signed by Consultant’s Project Manager that 
all deliverables have been reviewed or otherwise checked and that they are in full conformance 
with Consultant’s QA/QC Plan. Additionally, the City will require the Consultant to fill out and sign 
the City’s QC Certification form. 
 
The 90% design deliverable shall include 4 hard copies (using 11 x 17 drawings) and one print‐ready 
PDF on electronic media acceptable to the City of all deliverables. 
 
Task 4.3 – 100% Design and Bid Documents 
This task shall be conducted independently for each identified project(s) awarded to the Consultant. 
All design work shall be in conformance with the Clean Water Program design guidelines and 
standards, which will be provided to the Consultant during the negotiation phase. 
 
Following receipt of all City and regulatory review comments on the 90% Design Submittals, the 
Consultant will prepare a Final (100%) Design and will submit the 100% design submittal as a final 
check set. The final check set shall include all bid documents. Prior to submittal, the Consultant will 
have performed an inter‐disciplinary cross‐check of the design changes made since the 90% design 
submittal and corrected the related discrepancies. The Consultant will not add any new drawings or 
make any changes to the plans or specifications that are not a result of comments received by the 
City, regulatory review, or a final in‐house quality control check. Consultant and City shall conduct a 
workshop to verify that all City comments have been addressed and all permit conditions are 
accounted for. After the City’s back‐check review is complete, Consultant shall revise the documents 
and submit Final Bid Documents. 
 
The 100% back‐check design deliverable shall include a statement signed by Consultant’s Project 
Manager that all deliverables have been reviewed or otherwise checked in full conformance with 
Consultant’s QA/QC Plan. 
 
The 100% back‐check design deliverable shall include 4 hard copies and one print‐ready PDF on 
electronic media acceptable to the City of all deliverables. 
 
The Final Bid Documents will include finished, checked and completed plans and specifications, and 
will incorporate all City comments from previous submittals. The Consultant will document in‐house 
118 of 311

--- page 119 ---
changes and submit them to the City along with the Final Bid Documents. 
 
The Final Design submittals will also include all final databases, reports, construction schedules, cost 
estimates, engineering calculations and bid ready project plans and specifications. 
 
All plans, detailed specifications and engineering calculations will be stamped and signed by a 
Registered Engineer in the State of California. 
 
An updated construction cost estimate (AACE Class 1) and construction sequencing plan and schedule 
will be included with the deliverables. 
 
The Final Bid Documents deliverable shall include 5 hard copies (4 sets of 11 x 17 drawings and 1 set 
of full‐size drawings) and one print‐ready PDF on electronic media acceptable to the City of all 
deliverables. The City will print formal Bid Documents. 
 
Task 5 – Bid Period Assistance 
 
This task shall be conducted independently for each identified project(s) awarded to the 
Consultant.  The Consultant shall provide assistance during the bid period, including the 
following: 
 
Participate in the pre‐bid conference, if necessary. 
 
Prepare responses to bidder’s questions. 
 
Prepare addenda to Bid Documents, as needed. 
 
Participate in reviewing alternate equipment and material proposals from the 
contractor, if applicable. 
 
Participate in the evaluation of the submitted bids, furnish consultation and advise to City 
staff, and assist with all the related equipment, cost and other analyses as required to finalize 
the award decision. 
 
Prepare conformed drawings and specifications that incorporate all addenda. The Final 
Conformed Documents deliverable shall include 5 hard copies (using 11 x 17 drawings), 2 full‐size 
drawings sets, and one print ready PDF on electronic media acceptable to the City. 
 
Task 6 – Construction Phase Services 
 
This task shall be conducted independently for each identified project(s) awarded to the 
Consultant. The Consultant shall provide services during construction, which may include the 
following: 
 
Attendance at pre‐construction conference and construction progress meetings 
 
General technical support 
 
Periodic field visits 
 
Submittal review 
 
Request for information responses and review 
 
Change order and contract document modifications preparation and review 
 
Progress payment application review 
 
Construction closeout support 
 
Preparation of record drawings 
 
119 of 311

--- page 120 ---
EXHIBIT B: 
PROJECT SCHEDULE 
Consultant shall prepare a schedule for City review and approval prior to 
issuance of each Task Order. 
120 of 311

--- page 121 ---
Classification
Title / Project Role
Average Raw 
Labor
Cost1
Raw Labor 
Cost with 
Escalation2
Fringe 
Benefits3:
% of direct 
wages
Overhead4:
% of direct 
wages
Subtotal
Profit
Hourly Billing 
Rate
1%
69%
96%
12%
E5
Principal Engineer
81.60
$  
  
82.41
$  
  
56.30
$  
  
78.17
$  
  
216.07
$   
25.93
$  
  
242.00
$     
E4
Sr. Proj Eng / Proj Mngr
70.47
$  
  
71.18
$  
  
48.62
$  
  
67.51
$  
  
186.61
$   
22.39
$  
  
209.00
$     
E3
Project Engineer
60.69
$  
  
61.30
$  
  
41.88
$  
  
58.14
$  
  
160.71
$   
19.29
$  
  
180.00
$     
E2
Associate Engineer
53.95
$  
  
54.49
$  
  
37.22
$  
  
51.68
$  
  
142.86
$   
17.14
$  
  
160.00
$     
E1
Staff Engineer
44.17
$  
  
44.61
$  
  
30.48
$  
  
42.32
$  
  
116.96
$   
14.04
$  
  
131.00
$     
T3
Sr. Designer / CADD 3
48.89
$  
  
49.38
$  
  
33.74
$  
  
46.84
$  
  
129.46
$   
15.54
$  
  
145.00
$     
T2
Designer / CADD 2
39.79
$  
  
40.19
$  
  
27.45
$  
  
38.12
$  
  
105.36
$   
12.64
$  
  
118.00
$     
T1
Drafter / CADD 1
29.67
$  
  
29.97
$  
  
20.47
$  
  
28.43
$  
  
78.57
$     
9.43
$  
  
88.00
$  
  
I3
Supervising Inspector
59.01
$  
  
59.60
$  
  
40.71
$  
  
56.53
$  
  
156.25
$   
18.75
$  
  
175.00
$     
I2
Senior Inspector
52.94
$  
  
53.47
$  
  
36.53
$  
  
50.71
$  
  
140.18
$   
16.82
$  
  
157.00
$     
I1
Field Inspector
47.54
$  
  
48.02
$  
  
32.80
$  
  
45.55
$  
  
125.89
$   
15.11
$  
  
141.00
$     
AA
Administrative
35.40
$  
  
35.76
$  
  
24.43
$  
  
33.92
$  
  
93.75
$     
11.25
$  
  
105.00
$     
1 Average of Water Works current raw labor rates by Classification (January 2020)
2 If a contract starts within one (1) quarter from when the Consultant would normally increase their employee rates, an 
increase up to 1% is allowed for all staff working in the first year, to begin at the starting date of the contract, and will be 
frozen until the anniversary of the contract. This will cover anticipated first year salary increases. Thereafter, an average 
maximum 3% increase for all staff working on the project from year 1 will apply. 
3 Fringe Benefits include: vacation, holiday, sick leave, payroll taxes, insurance, etc.
4
1. Hourly Billing Rates are inclusive of all Technology Charges for computer, CADD, network, software, etc.
2. Bay Area Staff 
Personal use vehicles for Project Business and Visits to Sites ‐ Vehicle Mileage (per mile) at Current 
Federal Travel Regulation (FTR). 
3. Non‐Bay Area Staff 
Travel meals and hotel at Federal GSA per diem rate/day as published on the USGSA website. 
Rental car, airline tickets, and other miscellaneous travel costs at actual cost. Receipts for all costs 
over $25 shall be maintained and submitted with invoices. 
4. Subconsultant charges at cost plus 5% markup. 
5. Outside printing services at cost, with prior approval. 
6. Other direct project related costs at cost, with prior approval. 
7. An additional premium of 50% will be added to the above rates for Expert Witness and Testimony Services.
RATE SCHEDULE
EXPENSES
Overhead includes: indirect labor, training, building and rental expenses, taxes, supplies, administrative costs, professional 
registrations, computer / software related expenses, telecommunications, non‐client auto expenses, bank fees, recruiting, 
advertising, depreciation, employee retention/ professional development programs, etc.
JANUARY 2020 THROUGH JANUARY 2021
WATER WORKS ENGINEERS
Exhibit C
121 of 311

--- page 122 ---
Page 1
Proposal
249 S. Paseo Tesoro, Walnut, CA 91799
CA Registration: 1000000081
O: 909 598 9746  |  F: 909 598 9756
 Quote # CA: 110819
Steve Powers  |  M: 562-572-8521
steven.powers@pro-pipe.com  |  pro-pipe.com
 PROPOSAL SUBMITTED TO:
 DATE
 PHONE
Water Works Engineers
12/11/2019
 STREET (Business address)
 JOB / PROJECT NAME
On-Call Consulting Services for Annual Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation
CITY, STATE AND ZIP CODE
 JOB LOCATION
San Mateo, CA
 CONTACT NAME
PREVAILING WAGE QUOTE
Mike Fisher
mikef@wwengineers.com BUDGETARY
ITEM
QTY
UNIT
PRICE
-
                   
1
271,792
          
LF
$1.09
2
271,792
          
LF
$1.57
3
271,792
          
LF
$1.29
4
1,086
               
Each
$120.00
-
                   
1
235,430
          
LF
$1.09
2
235,430
          
LF
$1.56
3
235,430
          
LF
$1.29
4
967
                  
Each
$120.00
-
                   
1
286,417
          
LF
$1.09
2
286,417
          
LF
$1.56
3
286,417
          
LF
$1.29
4
1,387
               
Each
$120.00
-
                   
1
75,000
             
LF
$1.09
2
75,000
             
LF
$1.56
3
75,000
             
LF
$1.29
*
1
                       
Each
$5,000.00
GRAND TOTAL:
 EXCLUSIONS  ( any qualifications to exclusions are in parenthesis )
1
2
3
4
5
Mechanical Cleaning
6
Major Traffic Control
7
Disposal (Owner shall provide local disposal site and cover associated fees)
8
Water (Owner shall provide mobile means of providing water, such as mobile meter or fire hydrant hookup)
 WE PROPOSE hereby to furnish material and labor -- complete in accordance with above specifications
 Payment terms:
 30 Days of Invoice
Mobilization 
$5,000.00
Hoffman Southwest Corp. dba  
Professional Pipe Services (Pro-Pipe)
Cleaning of Sanitary Sewers
Cleaning of Sanitary Sewers
$369,477.93
MACP Manhole Inpsections
$166,440.00
Various
CCTV Inspection of Sanitary Sewers
$81,750.00
Cleaning of Sanitary Sewers
$96,750.00
Panoramo Inspection of Sanitary Sewers
$117,000.00
CCTV Inspection of Sanitary Sewers
$312,194.53
MACP Manhole Inpsections
Panoramo Inspection of Sanitary Sewers
$446,810.52
TOTAL
$296,253.28
$426,713.44
$350,611.68
CA License #761395
 DESCRIPTION
Basin A
CCTV Inspection of Sanitary Sewers
Panoramo Inspection of Sanitary Sewers
All material is guaranteed to be as specified. All work to be completed in a workmanlike manner according to standard practices. Any alteration or deviation from above 
specifications involving extra costs will be executed only upon written orders, and will become an extra charge over and above the estimate. All agreements are contingent 
upon strikes, accidents, or delays beyond our control. Maximum allowable interest charge on overdue invoices. Professional Pipe Services will provide certificate of insurance 
upon request.
Cleaning of Sanitary Sewers
MACP Manhole Inpsections
Basin B
CCTV Inspection of Sanitary Sewers
Panoramo Inspection of Sanitary Sewers
$130,320.00
$256,618.70
$367,270.80
$303,704.70
Per Basins Above
$116,040.00
Basin E
Flow Diversion, Bypass Pumping and Operating Pump Stations
Excavation of any kind
Permits, Licenses and Performance Bonds
Access (Owner shall provide adequate access)
Page 1 of 1
122 of 311

--- page 123 ---
2020 FEE SCHEDULE  
PROFESSIONAL STAFF 
HOURLY RATE 
Administrative .....................................................................................................................  $     70 
Illustrator .............................................................................................................................  $     85 
Technician ..........................................................................................................................  $     90 
Staff Professional ................................................................................................................  $   110 
Project Professional ............................................................................................................  $   125 
Senior Professional .............................................................................................................  $   135 
Principal Professional .........................................................................................................  $   150 
Principal Consultant ............................................................................................................  $   240 
Overtime & Prevailing Wage Rates for Technical and Office Staff: 
a.  Saturday or over 8 hours/day during weekdays ............................................  1.3 x straight time 
b.  Sundays/holidays ..........................................................................................  1.5 x straight time 
c.  Swing or graveyard shift premium .................................................................  1.3 x straight time 
d.  Prevailing Wage rates .......................................................................  Quoted relative to Project 
OTHER DIRECT CHARGES 
Subcontracted Services .......................................................................................... Cost Plus 15% 
Outside Reproduction ............................................................................................. Cost Plus 15% 
Laboratory Testing .................................................................................................. Cost Plus 15% 
Outside Equipment ................................................................................................. Cost Plus 15% 
Out-of-Pocket Expenses ......................................................................................... Cost Plus 15% 
Travel and Subsistence .......................................................................................... Cost Plus 15% 
Field Vehicle ...................................................................................................................... $25/day 
UAS (fixed wing or rotary) .................................................................................................. $250/day 
Vehicle Mileage.............................................................................................................. $0.80/mile 
Specialized Software Applications ......................................................................................  $40/hr 
123 of 311

--- page 124 ---
DCM Consulting, Inc. 
P.O. Box 225 
Lafayette, CA  94549 
925.322.9590 
dmathy@dcmconsults.com 
 
DCM CONSULTING, INC. 
2020 FEE SCHEDULE 
 
 
 
 
PROFESSIONAL STAFF 
 
Principal Engineer, David C. Mathy ...................................................................................$ 225.00/hr. 
Clerical/Administrative, Lita E. Mathy ..............................................................................$ 95.00/hr. 
 
 
MISCELLANEOUS 
 
Vehicle Mileage ..................................................................................................................$  0.55/mi. 
Expenses (Travel and Incidentals) ......................................................................................Cost + 10% 
 
Expert Witness Testimony and Depositions:  $700.00 lump sum plus $350.00 per hour for each 
hour in excess of two (2) hours. 
 
 
 
The above items are the most commonly requested professional services offered by DCM 
Consulting, Inc.  Fees for special services not listed herein will be furnished upon request. 
 
 
Fee Schedule Effective Date: January 1, 2020 
 
 
 
124 of 311

--- page 125 ---
Providing Quality and Value with Integrity Since 2003 
 
 
 
Professional Services Hourly Rate and Expense Schedule 
(Effective through December 31, 2020*) 
 
Engineering 
Principal...................................................................................................................................... $165 
Engineering Manager ................................................................................................................. $150 
Project Manager ......................................................................................................................... $150 
Project Engineer ......................................................................................................................... $135 
Engineer-In-Training  ................................................................................................................. $130 
Surveying 
Surveying Manager ............................................................................................................... $165 
Licensed Land Surveyor ............................................................................................................. $160 
Land Surveyor-In-Training .......................................................................................................... $130 
One Man Field Crew (GPS and/or Robotic) ............................................................................... $215 
Two Man Field Crew .................................................................................................................. $275 
Three Man Field Crew ................................................................................................................ $340 
Survey Travel Time ...................................................................................................................... $80 
Technical Support 
Project Designer/Land Survey Technician .................................................................................. $125 
Cadd Operator............................................................................................................................ $120 
Administrative 
Clerical ......................................................................................................................................... $70 
Expert Witness (Depositions and Trial) ............................................................................ $295 
 
Expense Rate Schedule 
 
Auto Mileage .............................................................................................................. $0.58 per mile 
(Mileage rate subject to change based on IRS guidelines) 
Other Expenses ........................................................................................................ Cost Plus 10% 
Outside Consultants, Reproduction, Travel and Expenses, Delivery Service 
*Subject to increase beyond this date. 
125 of 311

--- page 126 ---
EXHIBIT D: 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
126 of 311

--- page 127 ---
For Information Only                       
                           CITY OF SAN MATEO 
  
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 
12 07 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, 
personal & advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately 
to this project/location or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence 
limit. 
 
2. Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with 
limit no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, 
and Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for 
bodily injury or disease. 
 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the 
CONSULTANT’s profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or  claim, 
$2,000,000 aggregate. 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City 
requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following 
provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents 
are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, 
leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with 
respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the 
CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work 
or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the 
CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 
and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall 
be primary insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, or agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not 
contribute with it. 
127 of 311

--- page 128 ---
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be 
canceled, except after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has 
been given to the City. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer 
of said CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under 
such insurance. CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be  necessary to 
effect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether  or not the City 
has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer. 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. 
The City may require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or 
retention or provide proof of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, 
and defense expenses within the retention. 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than 
A:VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory 
endorsements or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this 
clause. All certificates and endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before 
work commences. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work 
beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s obligation to provide them. The City reserves 
the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including 
endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
To prevent delay and insure compliance with the requirements of the specifications, the 
insurance certificates and endorsements must be returned to: 
LAURA WEBB, PUBLIC WORKS DEPT.  
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
128 of 311

--- page 129 ---
SAMPLE ENDORSEMENT 
 
POLICY NUMBER: XXXXXXXXX 
 
THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY, 
PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY. 
 
ADDITIONAL INSURED - OWNERS, LESSEES OR CONTRACTORS 
(FORM B) 
 
This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following: 
 
COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART 
AUTOMOBILE LIABILITY COVERAGE PART 
 
SCHEDULE 
 
Name of Person or Organization: 
 
The City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees and agents 
are named as additional insured. 
 
This insurance shall apply as primary insurance as respects any Person, 
Organization, Partnership or Joint Venture named above, and any other insurance 
available to such Person, Organization, Partnership or Joint Venture shall be excess 
and not contributory with the insurance afforded by this policy. 
 
 
NOTE: 
Endorsements must also include documentation for compliance with all 
requirements listed in Agreement Section 13- INSURANCE 
 
129 of 311

--- page 130 ---
-1- 
 
AGREEMENT FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT 
 
On-Call Consulting Services for Annual Sanitary Sewer 
Rehabilitation Projects  
Harris & Associates 
 
This 
agreement, 
made 
and 
entered 
into 
on ________________  
by  and  between  the  CITY  OF  SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing 
under the laws of the State of California, hereinafter referred to as  "CITY", and 
Harris & Associates, a California Corporation with offices at 1401 Willow Pass 
Road, Suite 500, Concord, CA 94520 hereinafter referred to as "CONSULTANT": 
 
R E C I T A L S: 
 
A. 
CITY desires certain professional design services hereinafter 
described. 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these professional 
design services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such 
services and CONSULTANT has offered to provide the required services on the 
terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF PROJECT 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this 
Agreement is described in Exhibit A, Scope of Services, attached and 
incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto 
that CONSULTANT is skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the 
work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill 
of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work. The acceptance of 
CONSULTANT'S work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT 
from said obligation. 
130 of 311

--- page 131 ---
-2- 
 
SECTION 3 - PROJECT COORDINATION/STAFFING 
 
3.1 
CITY 
 
BRAD  B. UNDERWOOD, PUBLIC  WORKS  DIRECTOR, will  be  the 
representative of CITY for all purposes under this Agreement. Deryk Daquigan 
is hereby designated as the Clean Water Program Manager, and Laura Webb 
is hereby designated as the PROJECT MANAGER and shall supervise the day to 
day progress and execution of this Agreement. 
 
3.2 
CONSULTANT 
 
CONSULTANT's services are unique and personal. CONSULTANT shall not 
assign or transfer its interest or obligation under this Agreement without the 
CITY's written consent. CONSULTANT shall not subcontract its duties under this 
Agreement without the CITY's written consent. 
 
CONSULTANT shall assign a single PROJECT DIRECTOR to have overall 
responsibility   for the progress and execution of this Agreement for 
CONSULTANT. Steven Winchester is hereby designated as the PROJECT 
DIRECTOR for CONSULTANT.
  
CONSULTANT shall assign a PROJECT COORDINATOR to represent 
CONSULTANT during the day-to-day work on the Project. Kourosh Iranpour is 
hereby designated as the PROJECT COORDINATOR for CONSULTANT. 
 
CONSULTANT shall assign additional key personnel as follows: 
Daniel Wilkins, PE 
Suty Komsonkeo, PE 
Lian Zhu, PE 
Ka Chow, PE 
Yinlun XU, PE 
 
In addition, CONSULTANT is specifically authorized to subcontract with 
the following sub-consulting firms to assist in providing the services required by 
this Agreement: 
 
Chaudhary & Associates 
Subtronic Corporation 
McMillen Jacobs Associates 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all sub- 
consultants necessary for performance of the CONSULTANT’S scope of work. 
CONSULTANT shall manage, evaluate, and incorporate sub-consultants work 
into the project as necessary. 
131 of 311

--- page 132 ---
-3- 
 
All work on this project shall be accomplished by the above-named 
CONSULTANT'S personnel and sub-consultants. CONSULTANT shall not 
substitute personnel or sub-consultants without the CITY'S written consent. 
 
SECTION 4 - INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services 
required under this Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered 
an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code Section 3353, under control 
of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the result is 
accomplished. Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an 
agent or employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 5 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
 
CONSULTANT'S Services shall be furnished as described below and as 
more particularly described in Exhibit A, Scope of Services. Any changes in the 
Scope of Services must be approved in advance, in writing, by the Public Works 
Director. 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical 
accuracy and coordination of all studies, reports, designs, drawings, 
specifications, and other items furnished by CONSULTANT under this 
Agreement. CONSULTANT shall, without additional compensation, correct or 
revise any errors or deficiencies in its studies, reports, designs, drawings, 
specifications, and other items. 
 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services 
described under this Agreement. 
 
All documents, drawings and specifications relating the project prepared 
by CONSULTANT or CONSULTANT’s approved sub-consultants shall be 
approved, signed, and sealed by professional engineers duly registered in the 
State of California for each required discipline. The Contract Documents 
prepared by CONSULTANT shall provide for a completed project that conforms 
to all applicable national, state and local construction codes and ordinances, 
building, fire, electrical, plumbing and occupancy codes and standards. 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons 
necessary to perform the services of CONSULTANT. No sub-consultant of 
CONSULTANT will be recognized by CITY as such; rather, all sub-consultants 
are deemed to be the agents of CONSULTANT, and CONSULTANT agrees to be 
responsible for their performance. CONSULTANT shall give its personal attention 
to the fulfillment of the provisions of this Agreement by all of its employees and 
sub-consultants, if any, and shall keep the work under its 
132 of 311

--- page 133 ---
-4- 
 
control. If any employee or sub-consultant of CONSULTANT fails or refuses to 
carry out the provisions of this Agreement or appears to be incompetent or to act 
in a disorderly or improper manner, he or she shall be discharged immediately 
from the work under this Agreement on demand of CITY. 
 
CONSULTANT shall furnish CITY with every reasonable opportunity for 
CITY to ascertain that the services of CONSULTANT are being performed in 
accordance with the requirement and intentions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 6 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the 
project. 
 
CITY shall examine all documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall 
render decisions pertaining thereto promptly to avoid unreasonable delay in the 
progress of CONSULTANT'S work. 
 
CITY agrees to exercise due diligence in performing its tasks to implement 
the CONSULTANT’s timetable. 
 
SECTION 7 - TERM, PROGRESS AND COMPLETION 
 
This Agreement shall be valid for a duration of three (3) years, with up to 
two optional one-year extensions (for a maximum duration of five (5) years).  
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence and 
be completed as set forth in Exhibit B, Project Schedule. 
 
CONSULTANT shall not be responsible for delays caused by circumstances 
beyond its reasonable sole control. 
 
SECTION 8 - PAYMENT 
 
Payment shall be made by the CITY only for services rendered and upon 
submission of a payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work 
performed. In consideration for the full performances of the services and any 
reimbursable expenses set forth in this Agreement, CITY agrees to pay 
CONSULTANT a fee based on verified time and materials not to exceed 
$1,000,000. Requests for payments shall be itemized and correspond to the 
various items of work described in Exhibit A and shall be based on the rate and 
cost schedule set forth in Exhibit C. 
Payment for extra work or changes in the work will not be made unless for 
work authorized in advance in writing by the PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. Prior 
to commencing such extra work or changes, CONSULTANT and CITY shall agree 
upon an estimated not-to-exceed cost for such extra work. In no event shall 
133 of 311

--- page 134 ---
-5- 
 
CONSULTANT be paid for additional work that is necessary because of 
CONSULTANT'S errors or oversights. 
 
CONSULTANT shall maintain complete and accurate records as to the 
number of hours worked by persons and the direct costs incurred during each 
phase under this Agreement. All such records shall be maintained on a generally 
accepted accounting basis and shall be clearly identified and readily accessible. 
CONSULTANT shall provide free access to such books and records to the CITY 
at all times, shall permit the CITY to examine and audit those  books and records, 
shall permit the CITY to make copies of those books and records, and shall 
permit the CITY to inspect all work data, documents, proceedings, and activities 
related to this Agreement for a period of three (3) years from the date of final 
payment under this Agreement. All accounting records shall provide an 
understandable breakdown of costs charged to this Agreement. All records 
encompassed by this subparagraph, as well as supporting documentation, shall 
be kept separate from other CONSULTANT documents and records and shall be 
maintained by CONSULTANT for three (3) years after CONSULTANT'S receipt of 
final payment under this Agreement. 
 
CONSULTANT shall bill the CITY within thirty (30) days for all 
compensable activity on the project. 
 
CITY shall pay CONSULTANT within thirty (30) days of receipt of billings. 
If CITY disagrees with any portion of a billing, the CITY shall promptly notify 
CONSULTANT of the disagreement, and the CITY and the CONSULTANT shall 
attempt to resolve the disagreement. CITY's payment of any amounts shall not 
constitute a waiver of any disagreement. 
 
SECTION 9 - CHANGES IN WORK 
 
CITY may order changes in scope or character of work, either decreasing 
or increasing the amount of CONSULTANT's services by amending this 
Agreement. In the event that such changes are ordered, CONSULTANT shall be 
entitled to full compensation for all work performed prior to receipt of notice of 
change. In no event shall CITY be liable for payment unless the amount of such 
extra compensation shall first have been agreed to in writing by CITY. 
 
In the event that changes are ordered pursuant to this section, the 
schedule for progress and completion in Section 7 of this Agreement and 
compensation in Section 8 of this Agreement shall be adjusted by negotiation 
between CONSULTANT and CITY, subject to approval, if necessary by the San 
Mateo City Council. 
134 of 311

--- page 135 ---
-6- 
 
SECTION 10 - CONFLICT OF INTEREST 
 
CONSULTANT understands that its professional responsibility is solely to 
CITY. CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and will not 
acquire any interest, direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would 
conflict in any manner or degree with the performance of the services under this 
Agreement. CONSULTANT shall not knowingly, and shall take reasonable steps 
to ensure that, it does not employ a person having such an interest in the 
performance of this Agreement. If after employment of a person, CONSULTANT 
discovers that it has employed a person with a direct or indirect interest that 
would conflict with its performance of this Agreement, CONSULTANT shall 
promptly sever the employment relationship. 
 
SECTION 11 - TERMINATION 
 
A. 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have 
by law, CITY may, by ten days written notice to CONSULTANT, terminate this 
Agreement in whole or in part at any time, either for CITY'S convenience or 
because of the failure of CONSULTANT to fulfill its agreement obligations.  Upon 
receipt and within ten days of such notice CONSULTANT shall: 
 
1. 
Immediately discontinue all services affected (unless the notice 
directs otherwise); and 
 
2. 
Deliver to CITY all data, documents, reports, estimates, summaries 
and such other information and materials as may have been accumulated by 
CONSULTANT in performing this Agreement, whether completed or in progress. 
 
B. 
If the termination is for the convenience of CITY, CONSULTANT shall be 
compensated for all authorized work performed prior to notification of 
termination but no amount shall be allowed for anticipated profit on 
unperformed services. 
 
C. 
If, after any notice of termination for failure to fulfill agreement obligations, 
it is determined by a court or other arbitrator that CONSULTANT had not so 
failed, the termination shall be deemed to have been effected for the convenience 
of CITY.  In such event, adjustment in the agreement price shall be made as 
provided in paragraph (B) of this section. 
 
D. 
CONSULTANT may terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the 
project upon sixty (60) days written notice to CITY, but only in the event of 
substantial failure of performance by CITY or in the event CITY abandons or 
indefinitely postpones the Project. 
135 of 311

--- page 136 ---
-7- 
 
E. 
Upon termination of this Agreement or suspension of work on the project 
by either CITY or CONSULTANT, all duties of CITY and CONSULTANT as set forth 
in Sections 5 and 6 herein above shall terminate. 
 
SECTION 12 - STATUS OF REPORTS 
 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this 
Agreement, although instruments of professional service, are and shall be the 
property of the CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or 
not. All documents furnished to CONSULTANT by the CITY and all reports and 
supportive data prepared by the CONSULTANT in connection with the 
performance of this Agreement are the CITY'S property and shall be delivered to 
the CITY upon the completion of CONSULTANT'S services or at the CITY'S written 
request. All reports, information, data, and exhibits prepared or assembled by 
CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of its services pursuant to 
this Agreement are confidential until released by the CITY to the public, and the 
CONSULTANT shall not make any of these documents or information available 
to any individual or organization not employed by the CONSULTANT or the CITY 
without the written consent of the CITY before any such release. 
 
Any modifications made by the City or any agents of the City, to any of the 
Consultant’s instruments of professional services or any partial use or reuse of 
the instruments of professional services without the express written consent of 
the Consultant will be at the City’s sole risk and without liability to the 
Consultant. 
 
SECTION 13 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and 
three years thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the 
insurance as specified in this section of the Agreement. 
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
1. 
Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office 
(ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, 
including products-completed operations, personal & advertising 
injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit 
shall apply separately to this project/location or the general 
aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
 
2. 
Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any 
auto (Code 1), or if CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 
8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
136 of 311

--- page 137 ---
-8- 
 
 
3. 
Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, 
with Statutory Limits, and Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit 
of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease. 
4. 
Professional 
Liability 
(Errors 
and 
Omissions): 
Insurance 
appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s profession, with limit no less 
than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate. 
 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown 
above, the City requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits 
maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the 
following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
 
The City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, 
and agents are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy for liability arising 
out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the 
CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work 
or operations performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, 
parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations. 
General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the 
CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or 
both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s General 
Liability and Automobile Liability insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents. Any insurance or self- insurance maintained by the City 
of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be 
excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
Notice of Cancellation 
 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall 
not be canceled, except after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days 
for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
 
 
 
137 of 311

--- page 138 ---
-9- 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation 
which any insurer of said CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue 
of the payment of any loss under such insurance. CONSULTANT agrees to obtain 
any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but 
this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver 
of subrogation endorsement from the insurer. 
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and 
approved by the City. The City may require the CONSULTANT to purchase 
coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of ability to pay 
losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses 
within the retention. 
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating 
of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and 
amendatory endorsements or copies of the applicable policy language effecting 
coverage required by this clause. All certificates and endorsements are to be 
received and approved by the City before work commences. However, failure to 
obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the 
CONSULTANT’s obligation to provide them. The City reserves the right to require 
complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including 
endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
 
SECTION 14 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal 
services of CONSULTANT and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted 
by CONSULTANT without the prior written consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 15 - INDEMNITY 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY of San Mateo, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, from and against any 
claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s 
performance of this Agreement, except those claims arising out of CITY’s active 
negligence or willful misconduct. CONSULTANT agrees to defend CITY of San 
138 of 311

--- page 139 ---
-10- 
 
Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, against any 
such claims. 
 
With regard to design professional services performed by CONSULTANT, 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY of San Mateo, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, from and against any 
and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense to the extent arising out of 
CONSULTANT’s negligence, recklessness, or willful misconduct. CONSULTANT 
agrees to defend CITY of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents, against any such claims to the extent of CONSULTANT’s 
negligence, recklessness, or willful misconduct. 
 
To the extent that the Consultant’s services are subject to California Civil 
Code Section 2782.8, the above indemnity, including the cost to defend, shall be 
limited to the extent required by Civil Code Section 2782.8. 
 
SECTION 16 - WAIVERS 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, 
or condition of this Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall 
not be deemed to be a waiver of such term, covenant, condition, ordinance or 
law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of any other term, 
covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation 
of the same or of any other term, condition, ordinance, or law. The subsequent 
acceptance by either party of any fee or other money which may become due 
hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding breach or violation 
by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of 
any applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEYS FEES 
 
Attorney fees in an amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and 
in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the 
provisions of this Agreement. The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees 
recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and 
regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions. It is the intent 
of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 
for attorney’s fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of 
this Agreement. 
 
 
 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and 
139 of 311

--- page 140 ---
-11- 
 
shall comply with applicable regulations governing equal employment 
opportunity. Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its sub-consultants shall 
discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or 
age, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the 
California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request 
that it be submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 
days of a request. The mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in 
the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one name from 
mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the California 
State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The 
mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party 
shall be deemed the prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal 
action without first meeting in mediation and making a good faith attempt to 
reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once commenced by a 
meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties 
but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against 
CITY in connection with CONSULTANT'S services under this Agreement. Unless 
the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or is based upon CONSULTANT'S 
wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation of testimony 
and travel at CONSULTANT'S standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
140 of 311

--- page 141 ---
-12- 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage 
prepaid, addressed as follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Laura Webb  
 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, California 94403 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
Kourosh Iranpour 
 
Harris & Associates 
 
1401 Willow Pass Road, Suite 500 
 
Concord, CA 94520 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL UNDERSTANDINGS; 
AMENDMENTS 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between 
CITY and CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, 
and agreements, either written or oral. 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by 
both CITY and CONSULTANT. 
 
SECTION 23 – AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its 
business and to execute, deliver, and perform the Agreement. Each party 
warrants that the individuals who have signed this Agreement have the legal 
power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each respective 
party. 
 
SECTION 24 – SEVERABILITY 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or 
otherwise unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining 
provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 25 - GOVERNING LAW 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California. 
141 of 311

--- page 142 ---
-13- 
 
SECTION 26 - VENUE 
In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY and CONSULTANT have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
CONSULTANT 
a municipal corporation 
 
 
 
      Brad B. Underwood  
 
 
      By Its Authorized Agent  
      Public Works Director 
 
 
      John Kuprenas, Sr. VP 
 
*If a Corporation, can be either 
1) President or 2) Vice President 
plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) 
who shall sign below 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above) 
 
 
 
 
 
By:  Steve Winchester, CFO
 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
 
Caio Arellano 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Project Schedule 
Exhibit C: 
Rate and Cost Schedule Including Hourly Rates, Sub-Consultants and 
Reimbursable Expenses 
Exhibit D: 
City of San Mateo Insurance Requirements
142 of 311

--- page 143 ---
-14- 
 
 
143 of 311

--- page 144 ---
EXHIBIT A: 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
144 of 311

--- page 145 ---
Scope of Services 
 
The Consultant will provide consulting services for sanitary sewer rehabilitation for all project elements 
listed in this Scope of Services. Each task order’s detailed scope and fee negotiations will be executed 
in three phases for the sewer rehabilitation project as shown below and further defined in this Scope 
of Services: 
 
Phase 1 
Task 1 ‐ General Services 
Task 2 ‐ Video Inspection & Cleaning Services 
 
Phase 2 
Task 1 ‐ General Services 
Task 3 ‐ Evaluation of Video Inspection Data 
Task 4 ‐ Project Design and Construction Documents 
Task 5 ‐ Bid Support 
 
Phase 3 
Task 1 ‐ General Services 
Task 6 ‐ Construction Phase Services 
 
Typical tasks that are required of the Consultant under these categories are detailed in the following 
sections. Throughout the design of this project, the Consultant will submit deliverables for review 
and approval by the City and other governing agencies as required. A preliminary description of 
proposed deliverables has been provided in this Scope of Services and will be finalized during 
contract and fee negotiations. 
 
The deliverables required by the Consultant will vary depending on the necessary improvements to 
the sewer lines defined for each basin. All drawings and maps shall be developed using AutoCAD, 
ArcGIS and PDFs capable of plotting at a legible scale, on both 11x17” and 22x34” sheets. 
Additional deliverable information is provided in the various task descriptions below. 
 
For the 60%, 90%, and 100% design submittals, the Consultant shall attend a review meeting with City 
staff where the submittals will be presented to the City and will demonstrate that previous City 
comments have been addressed in the submittal. 
 
The City reserves the right to discontinue, alter, or postpone services at any time. 
 
 
 
 
145 of 311

--- page 146 ---
Task 1 – General Services 
 
Project management and coordination include tasks that will be performed by the Consultant 
throughout the project. Task 1 will cover all general services required for Phase 1, Phase 2 and 
Phase 3 for the sewer line rehabilitation project. These services include: 
 
General Project Management and Coordination 
 
Risk Management 
 
Workshops and Meetings 
 
Management of Subconsultants and Subcontractors 
 
Agency Coordination and City Meeting Support 
Further information regarding expectations for these services will be issued as a separate 
program standard in the Design Standards and Guidelines, prior to the first phase negotiations. 
 
Task 1.1 – Project Management 
Task 1.1.1 – General Management 
The Consultant will be responsible for detailed management of the project, including 
subconsultants and subcontractors, and will keep the City appraised of the status of the project. 
 
The Consultant will provide the key management personnel as described in their proposal on this 
project. The Consultant will not reassign the key project personnel without prior approval of the City 
per the Standard Agreement for Professional Consultant Services. 
 
Task 1.1.2 – Progress Report 
The Consultant will prepare and submit monthly progress reports that include a narrative of the 
work completed by task, project action item log, upcoming work, project issues, budget and 
schedule status, percent complete, cost to complete, earned value versus actual spent analysis, 
potential scope or budget changes, and other important project information. The monthly progress 
report will be submitted with the project invoice as part of the monthly request for payment. 
 
Task 1.1.3 – Project Invoices 
The Consultant will prepare and submit monthly invoices in accordance with Program standards. The 
invoices will document the man‐hours and billing rates for staff for each task in the WBS, as well as 
overhead, profit and any direct costs. The current and previous billing period invoicing, as well as a 
summary of the budget spent, budget remaining, cost to complete, and all backup documentation 
for expenses will be included. The monthly progress report and project schedule will be submitted 
with the project invoice as part of the monthly request for payment. 
 
Task 1.1.4 – Progress Schedule 
The Consultant will prepare a cost loaded project schedule in significant detail to calculate a monthly 
earned value of work performed. The selection of tasks and task durations will be approved by the 
City. The Consultant will prepare a planned value curve for the Project. Prior to invoice submittal, the 
Consultant will evaluate the percent complete for each activity worked on during the billing period. 
The Consultant will calculate the earned value for the month. The earned value will be compared to 
the planned value and the actual invoice value for the month. The Consultant will need to justify any 
requests for monies over the planned value and explain how the overall budget will be met over the 
life of the project. 
 
146 of 311

--- page 147 ---
Task 1.2 – Risk Management 
The Consultant will lead the development and maintenance of a Risk Management Plan in 
coordination with the Program’s risk management team. This will include an initial meeting with the 
City to identify and mitigate potential risk to the project. The risk meeting will be conducted within 
one month after Notice to Proceed and will be addressed as needed throughout the course of the 
project. This meeting will be about one hour in length and may be combined with other meetings 
between the City and Consultant. Consultant shall keep the Risk Management Plan up to date 
throughout the work. 
 
Task 1.3 – Workshops and Meetings 
The Consultant will prepare and submit to the City an agenda and meeting minutes for each formal 
meeting or workshop and hold progress meetings. Assume monthly meetings for CCTV work, monthly 
for design work and monthly for services during construction. 
 
Task 1.4 – Quality Control 
The Consultant will develop a Quality Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC) Plan for implementation of the 
Scope of Work. The Consultant’s QA/QC Plan will be reviewed and approved by the City Project 
Manager and will include or reference all the controls necessary for implementation. QA/QC Plans shall 
include detailed requirements for providing the required integrity for all field work, including 
conducting the explorations, sampling, and sample custody and transport. All QA/QC procedures for 
laboratory work shall be included. Each submittal, or partial submittal of testing results shall be 
accompanied by a written certification, signed by the Consultant’s Project Manager and the 
responsible individual from the applicable subconsultant, stating that all QA/QC procedures have been 
complied with for the information or submittal being delivered to the City. 
 
Submittals that do not include the written certification of compliance or that contain gross 
deficiencies or errors requiring a significant amount of the City staff time for checking will be 
returned without review until the City is satisfied that a thorough Consultant’s review, compliance 
with standards, checking and correction for coherence, consistency, spelling,  etc., has been 
performed. 
 
Task 1.5 – Management of Subconsultants 
If the Consultant requires the services of any subconsultants, then the Consultant will include a list of 
them in the proposal, explain why they are needed, and provide a general description of their effort. 
The Consultant will manage the activities of subconsultants during performance of the project. All 
requirements of the contract shall also apply to subconsultants. 
 
Task 1.6 – Agency Coordination 
The Consultant will assist the City in coordinating the project with various local/county, 
state/regional, and federal agencies. This task includes attending meetings, as needed, with 
applicable agencies, providing meeting minutes, and providing project information and exhibits to 
the agencies. This task is established as an allowance task and shall only be used when specifically 
requested by the City in writing. Costs for this task shall be invoiced as a separate line item and shall 
include a copy of the authorization from the City. 
 
 
147 of 311

--- page 148 ---
Task 2 –Video Inspection and Cleaning Services 
 
This task should be conducted independently, on an as‐needed basis as determined by the City, for 
each sewer rehabilitation project awarded to the Consultant. 
 
Task 2.1 Contract Book and Plans 
For the sewer rehabilitation projects where the City has deemed video inspection and cleaning 
services are required, the Consultant will create a Contract Book and Plans showing all sewer lines 
and manholes within project limits.  The City will provide the Consultant with project limits, current 
GIS data, and sample Contract Books.  The Consultant will provide drafts of each document until all 
City reviewers are satisfied and the project has been deemed ready for the Consultant’s CCTV 
subcontractor to perform the work. The Consultant’s subcontractor should follow City Standard 
CCTV Guidelines. Refer to the City of San Mateo Sewer System Management Plan (SSMP), 
Appendix 4.2. 
 
Task 2.2 Pipe and Manhole Inspections and Cleaning 
The Consultant will manage their CCTV subconsultant while the investigation and cleaning 
operations occur. Consultant will be NASSCO PACP and MACP certified to assist the Contractor 
(who will also be NASSCO PACP and MACP certified) when evaluating pipe and manhole 
inspections. Consultant shall provide inspection videos and reports to the City as they receive them 
from their CCTV subcontractor. Consultant will begin Task 3 operations concurrently with Task 2.2 
for the same project.   
 
Task 3 – Evaluation of Video Inspection Data 
 
This task should be conducted independently for each sewer rehabilitation project awarded to the 
Consultant. 
 
Task 3.1 Evaluation Technical Memorandum 
The consultant will be responsible for reviewing and evaluating the video inspection data provided 
to them for sanitary sewer mains and manholes. The consultant will then prioritize repairs based 
on the available project budget, the urgency of the repairs, and the value of the repair to 
maintenance and operation of the sewer system with the City’s input. 
The results of this evaluation shall be included in a technical memorandum provided to the City. 
 
Task 4 – Project Design and Construction Documents 
 
This task should be conducted independently for each sewer rehabilitation project awarded to the 
Consultant.  Consultant shall design repairs or improvements resulting from the inspection 
evaluation. Consultant shall provide drawings for each repair or improvement and compile them 
into one or more project packages as agreed with the City. The design work entails taking the 
video inspection evaluation (Task 3) and designing the changes that will be required to repair any 
broken pipes or manholes. 
 
 
 
148 of 311

--- page 149 ---
Task 4.1 – 60% Design Development 
The design activities and design elements shall become more concrete once the projects are 
assigned and shall be at a 60% level of completion. 
 
A statement signed by Consultant’s Project Manager that all deliverables have been reviewed 
or otherwise checked in full conformance with the Consultants QA/QC Plan will be required. 
 
All design work shall be in conformance with the Clean Water Program design guidelines and 
standards which will be provided to the Consultant during the negotiation phase. 
 
The 60% design deliverable shall include 4 hard copies (using 11 x 17 drawings) and one print ready 
PDF on electronic media acceptable to the City of all deliverables. 
 
Task 4.1.1 – Field Investigations 
The Consultant shall conduct field investigations as required to verify if there are any potential 
impacts to/from surrounding features that need to be addressed in the design for each sewer rehab 
location. The City will provide ArcGIS information in relation to the specific locations that is identified 
for rehab to the Consultant for use on the project. 
 
The field investigation shall note all obstructions that may be affected by the needed 
improvements. The Consultant shall conduct a thorough investigation at easement locations, 
which includes taking pictures of upstream and downstream manholes, and documenting any 
obstacles in the way. The Consultant will be responsible for obtaining all permits and access 
agreements to perform the survey, as well as providing any necessary traffic control. 
 
This work shall be completed before commencing with Task 4.2. 
 
If a Subconsultant is used for this work, the Consultant will identify the Subconsultant with the 
response to this RFP. 
 
Task 4.1.2 – 60% Design Submittal 
The design submittal at 60% shall include initial design drawings, calculations, databases, 
specifications, schedule and any other project documentation to support this submittal. Consultant 
shall provide plan and profile drawings for any segment where the repairs cross roadways, or 
additional locations as requested by the City. Point repairs (i.e. 6’ length repairs) in roadways will not 
be required to be designed with plan and profile drawings, unless specifically requested by the City. 
 
Task 4.2 – 90% Design Development 
This task shall be conducted independently for each sewer rehabilitation project awarded to the 
Consultant. All design work shall be in conformance with the Clean Water Program design guidelines 
and standards, which will be provided to the Consultant during the negotiation phase. 
 
For the 90% Design Submittal, the major design elements shall be well‐established and essentially 
complete. All supplementary/auxiliary design elements shall be incorporated between the 60% and 
90% Design Submittals for a complete design package. Drawings for all disciplines shall be 
substantially complete. Specifications shall be substantially complete and include all sections and all 
divisions including the legal, procedural, and general “front end” sections. 
 
This submittal will include all finished, checked and completed plans and specifications. No new 
149 of 311

--- page 150 ---
drawings and/or specification sections by the Consultant will be expected after this stage. All City 
comments on the previous submittal will have been resolved, rejected, addressed and/or 
incorporated in this submittal. The project is essentially finished and submitted as complete. The only 
missing effort is the City final review and regulatory approval with comment incorporation. 
 
Consultant’s checking will include a review of all deliverables within each discipline (i.e. drawings, 
detailed specifications, project support documentation, etc.) and an inter‐discipline coordination cross‐
check to correct discrepancies among the project documents. 
 
Discipline calculations, databases, construction cost estimates, schedule, and other project support 
documentation will be updated and submitted to the City to reflect the status of the Drawings and 
Detailed Specifications and will support the 90% design submittal workshops. 
 
A construction cost estimate (AACE Class 2) with basis of estimate narrative and construction 
sequencing plan and schedule shall be included with the deliverables. 
 
The 90% design deliverable shall include a statement signed by Consultant’s Project Manager that 
all deliverables have been reviewed or otherwise checked and that they are in full conformance 
with Consultant’s QA/QC Plan. Additionally, the City will require the Consultant to fill out and sign 
the City’s QC Certification form. 
 
The 90% design deliverable shall include 4 hard copies (using 11 x 17 drawings) and one print‐ready 
PDF on electronic media acceptable to the City of all deliverables. 
 
Task 4.3 – 100% Design and Bid Documents 
This task shall be conducted independently for each identified project(s) awarded to the Consultant. 
All design work shall be in conformance with the Clean Water Program design guidelines and 
standards, which will be provided to the Consultant during the negotiation phase. 
 
Following receipt of all City and regulatory review comments on the 90% Design Submittals, the 
Consultant will prepare a Final (100%) Design and will submit the 100% design submittal as a final 
check set. The final check set shall include all bid documents. Prior to submittal, the Consultant will 
have performed an inter‐disciplinary cross‐check of the design changes made since the 90% design 
submittal and corrected the related discrepancies. The Consultant will not add any new drawings or 
make any changes to the plans or specifications that are not a result of comments received by the 
City, regulatory review, or a final in‐house quality control check. Consultant and City shall conduct a 
workshop to verify that all City comments have been addressed and all permit conditions are 
accounted for. After the City’s back‐check review is complete, Consultant shall revise the documents 
and submit Final Bid Documents. 
 
The 100% back‐check design deliverable shall include a statement signed by Consultant’s Project 
Manager that all deliverables have been reviewed or otherwise checked in full conformance with 
Consultant’s QA/QC Plan. 
 
The 100% back‐check design deliverable shall include 4 hard copies and one print‐ready PDF on 
electronic media acceptable to the City of all deliverables. 
 
The Final Bid Documents will include finished, checked and completed plans and specifications, and 
will incorporate all City comments from previous submittals. The Consultant will document in‐house 
150 of 311

--- page 151 ---
changes and submit them to the City along with the Final Bid Documents. 
 
The Final Design submittals will also include all final databases, reports, construction schedules, cost 
estimates, engineering calculations and bid ready project plans and specifications. 
 
All plans, detailed specifications and engineering calculations will be stamped and signed by a 
Registered Engineer in the State of California. 
 
An updated construction cost estimate (AACE Class 1) and construction sequencing plan and schedule 
will be included with the deliverables. 
 
The Final Bid Documents deliverable shall include 5 hard copies (4 sets of 11 x 17 drawings and 1 set 
of full‐size drawings) and one print‐ready PDF on electronic media acceptable to the City of all 
deliverables. The City will print formal Bid Documents. 
 
Task 5 – Bid Period Assistance 
 
This task shall be conducted independently for each identified project(s) awarded to the 
Consultant.  The Consultant shall provide assistance during the bid period, including the 
following: 
 
Participate in the pre‐bid conference, if necessary. 
 
Prepare responses to bidder’s questions. 
 
Prepare addenda to Bid Documents, as needed. 
 
Participate in reviewing alternate equipment and material proposals from the 
contractor, if applicable. 
 
Participate in the evaluation of the submitted bids, furnish consultation and advise to City 
staff, and assist with all the related equipment, cost and other analyses as required to finalize 
the award decision. 
 
Prepare conformed drawings and specifications that incorporate all addenda. The Final 
Conformed Documents deliverable shall include 5 hard copies (using 11 x 17 drawings), 2 full‐size 
drawings sets, and one print ready PDF on electronic media acceptable to the City. 
 
Task 6 – Construction Phase Services 
 
This task shall be conducted independently for each identified project(s) awarded to the 
Consultant. The Consultant shall provide services during construction, which may include the 
following: 
 
Attendance at pre‐construction conference and construction progress meetings 
 
General technical support 
 
Periodic field visits 
 
Submittal review 
 
Request for information responses and review 
 
Change order and contract document modifications preparation and review 
 
Progress payment application review 
 
Construction closeout support 
 
Preparation of record drawings 
 
151 of 311

--- page 152 ---
EXHIBIT B: 
PROJECT SCHEDULE 
 
 
 
Consultant shall prepare a schedule for City review and approval prior to 
issuance of each Task Order. 
152 of 311

--- page 153 ---
1.00%
49.56%
173.30%
Team Member
Raw Labor 
Costa
Raw Labor Cost 
with 1% 
Escalationb
Fringe Benefitsc: % 
of direct wages
Overheadd: % of 
direct wages
Subtotal
Profit: 
%
Hourly 
Billing Rate
Hourly 
Billing Rate - 
revised
Kourosh Iranpour, PE, QSD
79.49
              
80.28
                      
39.79
                        
139.13
                
259.21
                 
10.00%
285.13
                 
286.00
                 
Daniel Wilkins, PE, QSD
56.28
              
56.84
                      
28.17
                        
98.51
                  
183.52
                 
10.00%
201.87
                 
202.00
                 
Lian Zhu, PE
43.37
              
43.80
                      
21.71
                        
75.91
                  
141.42
                 
10.00%
155.57
                 
156.00
                 
Yinlun Xu, PE
47.56
              
48.04
                      
23.81
                        
83.25
                  
155.09
                 
10.00%
170.60
                 
171.00
                 
Ka Chow, PE
38.91
              
39.30
                      
19.48
                        
68.11
                  
126.88
                 
10.00%
139.57
                 
140.00
                 
Suty Komsonkeo, PE
43.50
              
43.94
                      
21.77
                        
76.14
                  
141.85
                 
10.00%
156.03
                 
157.00
                 
Alvin Armstrong
43.59
              
44.03
                      
21.82
                        
76.30
                  
142.14
                 
10.00%
156.36
                 
157.00
                 
Zach Carroll
36.64
              
37.01
                      
18.34
                        
64.13
                  
119.48
                 
10.00%
131.43
                 
132.00
                 
Bennett Sanderson
33.71
              
34.05
                      
16.87
                        
59.00
                  
109.92
                 
10.00%
120.92
                 
121.00
                 
Luella Gabriel
52.69
              
53.22
                      
26.37
                        
92.22
                  
171.82
                 
10.00%
189.00
                 
189.00
                 
Note: Inspectors working in the State of California are subject to the Prevailing Wage Rates established for that area.
b If a contract starts within one (1) quarter from when the Consultant would normally increase their employee rates, an increase up to 1% is allowed for all 
staff working in the first year, to begin at the starting date of the contract, and will be frozen until the anniversary of the contract. This will cover anticipated 
first year salary increases. Thereafter, an average maximum 3% increase for all staff working on the project from year 1 will apply.
c Fringe benefits include: payroll taxes, benefits, ESOP contributions, bonuses and service awards.
a Current raw labor rates.
d Overhead includes:  indirect labor, rent, computer services, insurance, taxes, legal, outside services, depreciation and other indirect costs.
Attachment 'C'
Rate Schedule
Harris & Associates
January 1, 2020 thru December 31, 2020
153 of 311

--- page 154 ---
28-Jan-20
Team Member
Raw Labor 
Cost
Raw Labor 
Cost with  
1% 
Escalation
Fringe 
Benefits % of 
direct wages
Overhead % 
of direct 
wages
Subtotal
Profit %
Hourly 
Billing 
Rate
Arvin K. Chaudhary, PE, PLS
99.00
$       
99.99
$         
n/a
116.74%
216.72
$  
10%
238.39
$  
Sudhir K. Chaudhary, PLS
83.00
$       
83.83
$         
n/a
116.74%
181.69
$  
10%
199.86
$  
Helmut Korstick, PLS
70.00
$       
70.70
$         
n/a
116.74%
153.24
$  
10%
168.56
$  
Party Chief
49.00
$       
49.49
$         
n/a
178.55%
137.85
$  
10%
151.64
$  
Rodman
43.00
$       
43.43
$         
n/a
178.55%
120.97
$  
10%
133.07
$  
Office Surveyor
58.00
$       
58.58
$         
n/a
116.74%
126.97
$  
10%
139.66
$  
Survey Technician
48.00
$       
48.48
$         
n/a
116.74%
105.08
$  
10%
115.58
$  
RATE SCHEDULE
CHAUDHARY & ASSOCIATES, INC.
January 28, 2020 thru January 28, 2021
ATTACHMENT 'C'
154 of 311

--- page 155 ---
Team Member
Category 1
Raw Labor 
Cost1
Raw Labor 
Cost with 1% 
Escalation2
Fringe 
Benefits3:      % 
of direct wages
Overhead4:      
166.11% of direct 
wages
Subtotal
Profit: 12%
Hourly 
Billing Rate
Joyal, Norm
Principal
$89.44
NA
NA
148.57
              
$238.01
28.56
           
$266.57
Nielson, Dru
Senior Associate
$79.77
NA
NA
132.51
              
$212.28
25.47
           
$237.75
Soe, Su Pyae
Project Engineer
$40.77
NA
NA
67.72
                
$108.49
13.02
           
$121.51
Gajurel, Ashim
Staff Engineer
$36.29
NA
NA
60.28
                
$96.57
11.59
           
$108.16
Eusebio, Myra
Project Controls
$41.60
NA
NA
69.10
                
$110.70
13.28
           
$123.99
Note: Inspectors working in the State of California are subject to the Prevailing Wage Rates established for that area.
         The costs are per-assignment since this is fo the annual on-call contract and we may receive assignment over the duration of the contract.
 
3 Fringe benefits include: payroll taxes, benefits, ESOP contributions, bonuses and service awards.
4 Overhead includes:  indirect labor, rent, computer services, insurance, taxes, legal, outside services, depreciation and other indirect costs.
Rate Schedule
McMillen Jacobs Associates
December 1, 2019 through November 30, 2020
1 Current raw labor rates.
2 If a contract starts within one (1) quarter from when the Consultant would normally increase their employee rates, an increase up to 1% is 
allowed for all staff working in the first year, to begin at the starting date of the contract, and will be frozen until the anniversary of the contract. 
This will cover anticipated first year salary increases. Thereafter, an average maximum 3% increase for all staff working on the project from year 
1 will apply.
155 of 311

--- page 156 ---
RATE SCHEDULE 
[Consultant Name] 
[date] through [date, one year later] 
Team Member 
Raw Labor 
Cost1 
Raw Labor 
Cost 
with 1% 
Escalation2 
Fringe 
Benefits3: 
% of direct 
wages 
Overhead4: 
% of direct 
wages 
Subtotal 
Profit: 
% 
Hourly 
Billing 
Rate 
1 Current raw labor rates. 
2 If a contract starts within one (1) quarter from when the Consultant would normally increase their employee rates, an 
increase up to 1% is allowed for all staff working in the first year, to begin at the starting date of the contract, and will be 
frozen until the anniversary of the contract. This will cover anticipated first year salary increases. Thereafter, an average 
maximum 3% increase for all staff working on the project from year 1 will apply. 
3 State what is included with fringe benefits here (e.g. vacation, holiday, sick leave, payroll taxes, insurance, etc.) 
4 State what is included with overhead here (indirect labor, building and rental expenses, taxes, supplies, administrative 
costs, etc.) 
Hourly Rate includes Vehicles, Equipment and Travel to site          $ 206.00
   Subtronic Corporation
1.28.2020 - 6.30.2020
7.1.2020 - 6.30.2021 3% increase
156 of 311

--- page 157 ---
EXHIBIT D: 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
157 of 311

--- page 158 ---
For Information Only                       
                           CITY OF SAN MATEO 
  
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 
12 07 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, 
personal & advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately 
to this project/location or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence 
limit. 
 
2. Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with 
limit no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, 
and Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for 
bodily injury or disease. 
 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the 
CONSULTANT’s profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or  claim, 
$2,000,000 aggregate. 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City 
requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following 
provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents 
are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, 
leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with 
respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the 
CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work 
or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the 
CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 
and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall 
be primary insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, or agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not 
contribute with it. 
158 of 311

--- page 159 ---
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be 
canceled, except after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has 
been given to the City. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer 
of said CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under 
such insurance. CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be  necessary to 
effect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether  or not the City 
has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer. 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. 
The City may require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or 
retention or provide proof of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, 
and defense expenses within the retention. 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than 
A:VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory 
endorsements or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this 
clause. All certificates and endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before 
work commences. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work 
beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s obligation to provide them. The City reserves 
the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including 
endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
To prevent delay and insure compliance with the requirements of the specifications, the 
insurance certificates and endorsements must be returned to: 
LAURA WEBB, PUBLIC WORKS DEPT.  
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
159 of 311

--- page 160 ---
SAMPLE ENDORSEMENT 
 
POLICY NUMBER: XXXXXXXXX 
 
THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY, 
PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY. 
 
ADDITIONAL INSURED - OWNERS, LESSEES OR CONTRACTORS 
(FORM B) 
 
This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following: 
 
COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART 
AUTOMOBILE LIABILITY COVERAGE PART 
 
SCHEDULE 
 
Name of Person or Organization: 
 
The City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees and agents 
are named as additional insured. 
 
This insurance shall apply as primary insurance as respects any Person, 
Organization, Partnership or Joint Venture named above, and any other insurance 
available to such Person, Organization, Partnership or Joint Venture shall be excess 
and not contributory with the insurance afforded by this policy. 
 
 
NOTE: 
Endorsements must also include documentation for compliance with all 
requirements listed in Agreement Section 13- INSURANCE 
 
160 of 311

--- page 161 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-0019
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Department
MEETING DATE:
March 02, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Board and Commission Appointment Subcommittee - Park & Recreation Commission
RECOMMENDATION:
Appoint Mayor Goethals and Council Member Lee to the Park & Recreation Commission Appointment Subcommittee.
BACKGROUND:
Per the City Council Guidelines, the City Council appoints an appointment subcommittee for each board or commission 
body, comprised of the Mayor (or designee) and the Council liaison to that commission. The Guidelines also allow the 
other Council members to participate as a member of the appointment subcommittee. As each meeting is publicly noticed 
and to ensure that the meeting is appropriately agendized, this is the opportunity for Council to add their names as a 
participant to the appointment subcommittee.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact with this action.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This appointment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk 
polds@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7042
161 of 311

--- page 162 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 20-2495
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
March 02, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Parking In-Lieu Fee Increase – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to increase the Parking In-Lieu Fee and update the City's Fiscal Year 2019-20 and Fiscal Year 2020-21 
Comprehensive Fee Schedules.
BACKGROUND:
Within the Central Parking Improvement District (CPID), the City offers developers an option to pay a fee if the proposed 
project does not provide sufficient parking as required by the City’s Municipal Code Section 11.62. The funds generated 
from the parking in-lieu fee are utilized to support increasing the availability of public parking in the CPID. City Council 
approved an increase in the parking in-lieu fee to $26,311 per space on July 15, 2019, and directed staff to review the 
parking in-lieu fee amount and structure and propose modifications. 
Staff brought analysis and recommendations for City Council’s consideration on November 4, 2019. City Council directed 
staff to increase the base parking in-lieu fee to $50,000 per space to reflect the actual cost of construction. Additionally, 
City Council directed staff to charge the full  parking in-lieu fee for new development projects and a reduced parking in-lieu 
fee for projects converting existing buildings to accommodate new uses. Staff conducted a study session with City Council 
on February 18, 2020 to discuss options moving forward regarding parking requirements and fee studies to inform future 
Zoning Code amendments to revise parking requirements and align current parking demand for land use with parking 
requirements. City Council directed staff to return with the parking in-lieu fee increase to $50,000 per space, and to 
initiate studies to evaluate how to assess parking demand and requirements in the CPID, assess potential Zoning Code 
amendments to ensure application of parking in-lieu fees is current, and identify potential for reduction in parking 
requirements based on provision of Transportation Demand Management (TDM) measures.  
Based on City Council direction, staff has proposed a resolution to amend the City’s fiscal year 2019-20 and fiscal year 
2020-21 Comprehensive Fee Schedules as follows.
1.
The parking in-lieu fee in the CPID is increased to $50,000 per space for projects without approved planning 
applications.
2.
The parking in-lieu fee will increase annually by the percentage increase in the Engineering News Record San 
Francisco Construction Cost Index.
If approved, the modifications to the fiscal year 2019-20 Comprehensive Fee Schedule will take effect 60 days from the 
date of adoption (May 1, 2020). The increased parking in-lieu fee will be included in the fiscal year 2020-21 Comprehensive 
Fee Schedule to take effect July 1, 2020.  Projects with approved planning applications are subject to the parking in-lieu fee 
in effect at the time the planning entitlement was approved and will not be subject to the fee increase.   Additionally, 
162 of 311

--- page 163 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
consistent with City Council direction on February 18, staff is aware of the gap period between when the fee will be 
increased and when the updated comprehensive study on parking demand downtown is completed.  To address this, staff 
recommends bringing forward a Municipal Code amendment on March 16th for Council consideration that would allow 
developers to utilize an independent project-specific parking demand study rather than existing parking requirement ratios 
as an interim zoning code amendment until the comprehensive update is completed. 
Recent discussions at the Planning Commission have also involved the parking in-lieu fee and the evaluation of 
development projects within the CPID and the Limited Parking Zone (LPZ) contained therein.  There have been some 
concerns from staff and the Planning Commission regarding evaluation of developer requests to pay the parking in-lieu fee 
rather than provide all required parking on-site.  As established within the City’s 2009 Downtown Area Plan, there is less 
parking permitted on-site within the LPZ than the other portions of the CPID area.  Consequently, allowing payment of the 
parking in-lieu fee rather than providing on-site parking outside of the LPZ in an area that does not contain adequate 
parking facilities nearby can create impacts on the City’s streets and neighborhoods.   In addition to the recommendation 
to allow project-specific parking demand studies, staff recommends codifying objective standards for evaluation of parking 
in-lieu fee requests to address this concern and will bring these standards with the proposed interim ordinance to Council 
on March 16 for consideration. If the Council moves forward with the Municipal Code changes, they would take effect 
thirty days after the second reading of the ordinance. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Adoption of this Resolution will assist the City in providing adequate parking supply necessitated by new development. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Adoption of the attached Resolution increasing the parking in lieu fee is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a 
government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially 
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Public Comment
STAFF CONTACT
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
Jay Yu, Engineering Manager
jyu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7323
163 of 311

--- page 164 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2020)
UPDATING THE PARKING IN-LIEU FEE AND AMENDING THE 2019-2020 and 2020-21 FEE SCHEDULES 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo has adopted a parking in-lieu fee, which allows developers in the 
Central Parking Improvement District to pay a fee instead of providing required parking on site; and
WHEREAS, the parking in-lieu fee funds are used to support availability of public parking in the Central 
Parking Improvement District; and
WHEREAS, the amount of the City’s parking in-lieu fee is established by resolution of the City Council; 
and
WHEREAS, the City’s parking in-lieu fee is set in an amount based on the estimated cost of construction 
for a single parking space; and
WHEREAS, the City wishes to provide that development projects with approved planning application will 
be subject to the parking in lieu fee amount in effect at the time of planning application approval; and
WHEREAS, the City’s existing parking in-lieu fee has an automatic escalator to increase the fee by the 
same percentage of any annual increase in the San Francisco Bay Area Consumer Price Index; and
WHEREAS, the San Francisco Bay Area Engineering News Record Construction Cost Index is based on the 
cost of construction in the region and is therefore a more accurate measure of the cost to provide parking 
facilities in the City; and 
WHEREAS, the City wishes to change the index it uses for fee adjustments to be the San Francisco Bay 
Area Engineering News Record Construction Cost Index; and 
WHEREAS, a noticed public hearing was held by the City Council on March 2, 2020; and
WHEREAS, written notice of the public hearing was provided to requesting parties at least fourteen days 
prior to the public hearing, newspaper notice was published twice at least ten days prior to the public hearing, 
and information regarding the fee increase was made available to the public at least ten days prior to the public 
hearing;
NOW, THEREFORE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 66001(a), THE CITY COUNCIL 
OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, MAKES THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS:
a.
The purpose of the City’s parking in-lieu fee is to fund public parking improvements.
b.
The parking in-lieu fee funds will be used to construct public parking improvements identified in 
the City’s capital improvement plan and budget.
164 of 311

--- page 165 ---
c.
There is a reasonable relationship between the use of the parking in-lieu fee and development 
projects on which the parking in-lieu fee is imposed in that those projects generate a need for 
parking.
d.
There is a reasonable relationship between the need for public parking facilities and the 
development projects on which the parking in-lieu fee is imposed in that the parking need 
generated by those projects will be served by public parking facilities. 
NOW, THEREFORE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 66001(b), THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, MAKES THE FOLLOWING FINDING:  The City’s parking in-lieu fee is reasonably 
related to the legitimate governmental purpose of providing parking improvements within the Central Parking 
Improvement District to serve development, because the fee is based upon the cost of constructing parking 
spaces and the fee will provide the City with funding to construct parking improvements described in the City’s 
capital improvement program and that will serve developments without on-site parking.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNA, RESOLVES AS 
FOLLOWS:  
a.
The parking in-lieu fee adjustment set forth below is approved and the City’s Fiscal Year 2019-
2020 and 2020-2021 Comprehensive Fee Schedules are amended as follows:
1)
The parking in-lieu fee for new development without an approved planning application in 
the Central Parking Improvement District is increased to $50,000 per space.
2)
Development projects with approved planning applications will pay the parking in lieu fee 
amount in effect at the time of planning application approval. 
3)
The parking in-lieu fee will increase annually on July 1 of each year by the percentage 
increase in the Engineering News Record Construction Cost Index.
4)
Pursuant to section 15378(b)(4) of the California Environmental Quality Control Act 
(CEQA) Guidelines, the adoption of the resolution to adjust the fee is not a project subject to 
CEQA in that it is a fiscal activity which does not involve a commitment to a specific project 
with a potentially significant physical impact on the environment.
5)
This Resolution will take effect 60 days after adoption.
165 of 311

--- page 166 ---
February 21, 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
via email 
 
Honorable Mayor and City Council Members 
City of San Mateo  
330 W. 20th Ave  
San Mateo, CA 94403  
 
RE: Parking In-Lieu Fee  
 
I am writing to discuss the proposed changes to the San Mateo Parking In-lieu Fee referenced in the Staff 
Report given to City Council on November 4, 2019.  
 
We own the Central Park Plaza block, bordered by 4th, 5th, El Camino Real & San Mateo Avenue. We are 
opposed to the proposed doubling of the parking impact fee, especially in light of the outdated parking 
code requirements which are above office market demand. For example, the code requires 2.6 per 1,000 
for new office buildings and yet typical demand today is 2.0 per thousand. Not only would this make San 
Mateo have one of the highest impact fees in the Bay Area, but it is a double hit since the code requires 
more spaces than are needed.   
 
In addition, although this would be one of the highest parking impact fees in the Bay Area, San Mateo 
office rents are lower than many other cities. This further impacts the feasibility of building new projects 
in the Downtown.  Even now, City fees are more than 10% of total project costs in San Mateo.  
 
A more holistic study should be made that are specific to traffic and parking demands in the Downtown, 
TDM credits, etc. prior to a final decision.  
 
We are available to participate in further discussions as a stakeholder in the Downtown, similar to our 
participation in the General Plan update process.  
 
Thank you for your consideration of this issue,  
 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
 
Jeff Gilman 
Vice President, Real Estate 
 
cc: Sue-Ellen Atkinson, AICP, Principal Transportation Planner 
166 of 311

--- page 167 ---
From: Marcus Gilmour <marcus@lane-partners.com> 
Sent: Tuesday, February 25, 2020 7:21 PM 
To: Kohar Kojayan 
Subject: Parking In-Lieu Fee Timing  
  
Hi Kohar 
  
It was great meeting you last week. Thank you for introducing yourself! I (along with a couple guys from 
Prometheus) met with Mayor Goethals and Commissioner Lee tonight to discuss the parking in-lieu fee 
issue among other development topics.  We conveyed our support of a fee increase but asked that the 
timing of the increase be aligned with a reduction in the parking ratio requirements based on an actual 
demand study.   
  
Mayor Goethals encouraged me to reach out to you directly to learn more about the timing of the fee 
increase going into effect vs the timing of the demand studies being done.  We understand the City has 
pressure to increase the fee asap but our concern is the potential to create a dead period of 
development in which groups like us are waiting to move projects forward until the City conducts the 
demand studies and TDM credit updates, etc.   
  
Happy to meet in person or jump on a call to discuss.  
  
Thanks, 
Marcus 
  
  
  
 
  
MARCUS J. GILMOUR | Principal 
644 Menlo Avenue 2nd Floor, Menlo Park, CA 94025 
t 650 838 0100  d 650 665 7085 
c 310 874 9009 
  
LANE-PARTNERS.COM 
 
167 of 311

--- page 168 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 20-2556
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
March 02, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Fiscal Year 2020-21 Comprehensive Fee Schedule – Approval 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the revisions to the proposed fiscal year 2020-21 Comprehensive Fee Schedule.
BACKGROUND:
Section 3.64.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code requires the City Manager to submit the City’s fee schedule to the City 
Council for approval prior to submittal of the annual budget. It is the City's policy and practice to increase fees annually by 
Consumer Price Index, or CPI, for the San Francisco Bay Area.  The proposed increases reflect the City's increase in 
materials and maintenance costs incurred in providing services.  The City normally uses the CPI from the previous October, 
which is the most recent data available at the beginning of the review process (CPI for 2020-21 is 3.00% from November 
2018 to October 2019).  Other adjustments to fees are made periodically as deemed necessary to reflect actual staff costs, 
market alignments, or to comply with policy.  
The proposed fee adjustments are based on the annual CPI increase, a periodic adjustment, or are the result of detailed 
analyses of the cost for providing specific programs/activities. Recreation fees and park in-lieu fees were reviewed and 
recommended for approval by the Parks and Recreation Commission at its February 5, 2020 meeting, with a vote of 4 to 0.  
All fees will become effective July 1, 2020, except where noted.  Sewer service charges are set separately by ordinance and 
are not part of the fee revision process.
In addition, the Public Works Department and Community Development Department are currently undertaking fee studies 
and anticipate bringing any proposed revisions to their respective fees in the near future. In the interim, the proposed 
fiscal year 2020-21 fee increases do not exceed CPI.
 
Tables summarizing the new fees and various fee changes in excess of CPI are provided in Attachment 4.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
The changes to fees, including new fees, for fiscal year 2020-21 are estimated to increase revenues by $5,950.  These 
revenues will be reflected in the 2020-21 budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Comprehensive Fee Schedule update for fiscal year 2020-21 is not a project subject to CEQA because it is a 
government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially 
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
168 of 311

--- page 169 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
All meeting noticing requirements were met.  In accordance with Government Code sections 66018 and 6062a, notice of 
the fee increases was published twice, beginning 10 days in advance of the public hearing. Prior to the meeting, City staff 
made the data available for the public, indicating the amount of cost, or estimated cost, required to provide the service for 
which the fee or service charge is levied, and the receiving fund of the fee revenue.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Proposed Comprehensive Fee Schedule FY 2020-21
Att 3 – Red line Adopted Comprehensive Fee Schedule FY 2019-20
Att 4 – Tables Summarizing Changes
STAFF CONTACT
Karley Hamilton, Management Analyst I
khamilton@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7106
Rich Lee, Director, Finance
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
169 of 311

--- page 170 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ___ (2020)
ESTABLISHING A COMPREHENSIVE FEE SCHEDULE FOR 2020-21
WHEREAS, in accordance with section 3.64.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, the City reviews its 
Comprehensive Fee Schedule on an annual basis prior to submittal of the annual budget; and
WHEREAS, it is the City’s policy and practice to establish service fees sufficient to recover its costs, 
including inflation, based on the Consumer Price Index, which is 3.0% for fiscal year 2020-21, and to eliminate or 
reduce fees that are obsolete, no longer applicable to services provided, or succeeded by state or county 
agencies; and 
WHEREAS, fee increases in excess of the 3.0% CPI factor are appropriate, when based on increases in 
the City’s actual costs or market analyses, for the following fees:

Transportation Improvement Fees

Police Outside Detail

Heritage Tree Permit

Heritage Tree Replacement Deposit

Senior Golf 10 Playcard
 
WHEREAS, in accordance with Government Code section 66016, the Council held a public hearing to 
consider these fee increases on March 2, 2020; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with Government Code section 66019, at least ten days prior to the public 
hearing, the City made data available to the public supporting the need for fee increases.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE SAN MATEO CITY COUNCIL HEREBY FINDS AND RESOLVES that;
1.
The fees included in the Comprehensive Fee Schedule, are approved.
2.
All fees shall become effective July 1, 2020, except where noted.
170 of 311

--- page 171 ---
Proposed 
Comprehensive Fee Schedule
July 1, 2020 - June 30, 2021
171 of 311

--- page 172 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
COMPREHENSIVE FEE SCHEDULE
Table of Contents
Parks & Recreation…………………………………………………………….........…8.1
Police……………………………………………………………………….…….....…9.1
Public Works…………………………………………………………………............10.1
Penalties & Interest……………………………………………………………...…....11.1
Impact, In-lieu, and Linkage Fees…………………………………………....…...…..12.1
Library……………………………………………………………………………........7.1
City Clerk………………………………………………………………………….....1.1
Community Development
Building…………………...…………..……..…...………………..…....2.1
Code Enforcement………………………………………...………….....3.1
Planning………………...…………..………..…...……………...….…..4.1
Finance…………………………………………...………………………...……....….5.1
Information Technology………………………………………………………….....…6.1
172 of 311

--- page 173 ---
UNIT
FEE
I. ELECTION DOCUMENT COPIES
Per Page
$0.10
II. PHOTOCOPIES
Per Page
$0.15
III. OUTSIDE SERVICES
Reproductions not performed by City (maps, photos, etc.).
Per Reproduction
Actual Costs
IV. CERTIFICATIONS
Each
$1.50
V. APPEALS to the City Council of a decision by the Planning
Commission, Community Relations Commission, or Public
Works Commission.
Each Appeal
$500.00
VI. INITIATIVE FILING FEE
Each
$200.00
CITY CLERK
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 1.1
173 of 311

--- page 174 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
I.
Valuation
$121.20 
Valuation
$121.20 
(for 1st $500) $5.38 for each add'l $100 or fraction 
thereof to and including $2,000
Valuation
$202.00 
(for 1st $2,000) $26.35 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $25,000
Valuation
$808.00 
for 1st $25,000) $21.01 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $50,000
Valuation
$1,333.20 
(for 1st $50,000) $13.74 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $100,000
Valuation
$2,020.00 
(for 1st $100,000) $11.11 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $500,000
Valuation
$6,464.00 
(for 1st $500,000)  $9.37 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $1,000,000
Valuation
$11,150.40 
(for 1st $1,000,000)  $8.70 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $2,000,000
Valuation
$19,582.57 
(for 1st $2,000,000)  $1.34 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof  to and including $4,000,000
Valuation
$22,688.65 
(for 1st $4,000,000)  $2.60 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $8,000,000
Valuation
$33,087.61 
(for 1st $8,000,000)  $2.31 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $16,000,000
Valuation
$51,540.73 
(for 1st $16,000,000)  $1.34 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $32,000,000
Valuation
$72,952.74 
(for 1st $32,000,000)  $2.04 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $64,000,000
Valuation
$138,226.23 
(for 1st $32,000,000)  $1.02 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
BUILDING PLAN REVIEW FEES
$1.00 - $500.00
$501.00 - $2,000.00
$2,001.00 - $25,000.00
$25,001.00 - $50,000.00
$50,001.00 - $100,000.00
$100,001.00 - $500,000.00
$500,001.00 - $1,000,000
$1,000,001 to $2,000,000 
$2,000,001 to $4,000,000 
$4,000,001 to $8,000,000 
$8,000,001 to $16,000,000 
$16,000,001 to $32,000,000 
$32,000,001 to $64,000,000 
$64,000,001 and Over
Page 2.1
174 of 311

--- page 175 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
II.
Valuation
$117.01 
Valuation
$117.01 
(for 1st $500) $7.80 for each add'l $100 or fraction 
thereof to and including $2,000
Valuation
$234.03 
(for 1st $2,000) $30.53 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $25,000
Valuation
$936.12 
for 1st $25,000) $23.41 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $50,000
Valuation
$1,521.18 
(for 1st $50,000) $16.38 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $100,000
Valuation
$2,340.28 
(for 1st $100,000) $12.19 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $500,000
Valuation
$7,215.88 
(for 1st $500,000)  $10.84 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $1,000,000
Valuation
$12,637.54 
(for 1st $1,000,000)  $8.66 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $2,000,000
Valuation
$21,296.59 
(for 1st $2,000,000)  $1.52 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof  to and including $4,000,000
Valuation
$24,338.96 
(for 1st $4,000,000)  $3.05 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $8,000,000
Valuation
$36,508.44 
(for 1st $8,000,000)  $2.54 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $16,000,000
Valuation
$56,868.92 
(for 1st $16,000,000)  $1.08 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $32,000,000
Valuation
$74,140.22 
(for 1st $32,000,000)  $2.32 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $64,000,000
Valuation
$148,280.45 
(for 1st $32,000,000)  $1.15 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
BUILDING PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES
$1.00 - $500.00
$501.00 - $2,000.00
$2,001.00 - $25,000.00
$25,001.00 - $50,000.00
$50,001.00 - $100,000.00
$100,001.00 - $500,000.00
$500,001.00 - $1,000,000
$1,000,001 to $2,000,000 
$2,000,001 to $4,000,000 
$4,000,001 to $8,000,000 
$8,000,001 to $16,000,000 
$16,000,001 to $32,000,000 
$32,000,001 to $64,000,000 
$64,000,001 and Over
NOTE: Building valuation shall be established pursuant to Section 23.06.120 of SMMC.
Page 2.2
175 of 311

--- page 176 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
III.
A.
1.
Commercial and Multi-Residential
0 -10,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
10,001-35,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
35,001-75,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
75,001-120,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
Over 120,000 Square Feet
Per Hour
*See Note Below
2.
Single Family and Duplex Plan Review
0-10,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
B.
Fee
0.33% of Valuation
C.
Hourly Rate
Please refer to Building, Fire and Planning Hourly 
Rate
D.
Fee / Actual Cost
 Initial plan 100% of Building Plan Check Fee, Fire 
Support and Planning Support Fee; then Actual Cost 
for all City Departments for additional identical and 
mirror image plan checks where uniform codes have 
not changed. 
E.
a. Park and Recreation Tax on Residential
Building Permits
 Per $100 Valuation on 
Building Permit App. 
$0.30
a. Consultants for specialized plan checking and
inspection services or to expedite plan checking
and inspection services
Fee is per Consultant's rate
b. Reimburse cost of staff or consultant time
spent in plan check or inspection services.  Park
Plan Check and Inspection Services on Building
Permits. Fee to be collected at time of Building
Permit application. After payment of fees,
Permittee may apply for an exemption for
projects having no Park Plan Check or Inspection
Requirements.
Building Valuation on 
Those Building Permits 
Whose Valuation is Over 
$5,000
0.07%
F.
Construction Valuation of  
All Projects
0.39% of valuation
G.
Fee
 13 mills/$1,000 valuation
Residential (Minimum $0.50)
28 mills/$1,000 valuation
Non-Residential. (Minimum $0.50) 
H.
Fee
 $1/$25,000 valuation 
I.
Percentage
0.10% of valuation
J.
All Required Permits
 Minimum of 100% of all permit fees 
ADDITIONAL REQUIRED PLAN REVIEW & 
BUILDING PERMIT FEES
FIRE PLAN CHECK
*These fees are collected on behalf of the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department. The current fee charged may be higher than those listed. Please see
the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department's fee schedule for current fees that will be collected by the City of San Mateo on behalf of San Mateo
Consolidated Fire Department at: smcfire.org/i-want-to
PLANNING SUPPORT FEE (PLAN 
CHECK/INSPECTION)
(Fee covers initial review and 2 resubmittals)  The fee 
will be charged for all projects which require a 
planning application, for new single-family homes 
and duplexes, and for any other permit application 
that requires review by the Planning  Division.
ADDITIONAL PLAN REVIEW FEES FOR 
PROJECTS REVIEWED 4TH REVIEW AND 
BEYOND
PLAN CHECK FEES FOR IDENTICAL AND 
MIRROR IMAGE PLANS
PARKS AND RECREATION FEES
1. Park and Landscape Resources
2. Development Project Review Fee
GENERAL PLAN MAINTENANCE FEE
STATE TAX
Strong motion instrumentation and seismic hazard 
mapping (Fee set by State of California).
BUILDING STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION 
SPECIAL REVOLVING FUND
TECHNOLOGY FEE
CONSTRUCTION WITHOUT A PERMIT
Penalty incurred when any construction is performed 
without a permit.
Page 2.3
176 of 311

--- page 177 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
IV.
A.
Per Hr (Min. 2 Hours)
$156.00 
B.
Per Hr (Min. 1 Hour)
$156.00 
C.
Per Hr
(Min. 1/2 Hour)
$156.00 
D.
Per Reactivation
$358.00 
E.
Hourly Rate
$169.00 
F.
Each Page
$0.15 
G.
Each Page
$0.30 
H.
Per Hour
$161.00 
I.
Each
$637.00 
J.
Each
$637.00 
K.
$72.00 
L.
1. Single Family Dwellings/Duplex's
Each
$382.00 
2. Multi-Family, Mixed Use/Commercial
Each
Valuation Based
M.
1. Bathroom remodels consisting of 4 plumbing
fixtures maximum.
Each Combination Permit
$539.00 
2. Kitchen remodels consisting of a maximum of:
1 plumbing fixture or 20 electrical
lights/switches/outlets maximum or a maximum
of 2 gas-fired appliances.
Each Combination Permit
$539.00 
N.
Each
$153.00 
O.
Each
$333.00 
P.
Each
$228.00 
Q.
Each
$410.00 
R.
Each
$333.00 
S.
Each
$307.00 
T.
Each
$2,734.00 
U.
Each
$1,237.00 
V.
Each
$151.00 
MISC. INSPECTIONS AND FEES
Applicable to building, plumbing, electrical and 
mechanical permits.
INSPECTIONS OUTSIDE OF NORMAL BUINESS 
HOURS 
REINSPECTION FEE
PLAN REVIEW REQUIRED BY CHANGES, 
ADDITIONS OR REVISIONS TO APPROVED 
PLANS, OR MORE THAN TWO RECHECKS
REACTIVIATION FEE FOR EXPIRED PERMITS 
(Use 50% of original permit fee if permit fee is less 
than the reactivation fee)
APPLICATION FOR DEMOLITION OF 
RESIDENTIAL UNITS WHICH BEEN 
DECLARED A PUBLIC NUISANCE OR WHICH 
ARE BEING DEMOLISHED ON APPROVAL OF 
THE BUILDING OFFICIAL UNDER SECTION 
23.06.100.
RESEARCH RE: ALTERNATE MATERIALS AND 
CODE INTERPRETATIONS REQUIRING 
CONSULTATION WITH OUTSIDE AGENCIES
PERMITS FOR SMALL ANIMAL & FOWL
RE-ROOF'S
COMBINATION BUILDING, PLUMBING,
ELECTRICAL, AND MECHANICAL PERMITS
FOR MINOR RESIDENTIAL REMODELS:
COST OF BLACK AND WHITE COPIES
COST OF COLOR COPIES
BUILDING/PROPERTY RESEARCH AND 
INQUIRY FEE (1st hour is free)
HARDSHIP WAIVER FOR DISABLED ACCESS 
REQUIREMENTS
WINDOW REPLACEMENTS FOR SINGLE 
FAMILY AND DUPLEX (same location, same size, 
5 maximum)
WINDOW REPLACEMENTS FOR SINGLE 
FAMILY AND DUPLEX (same location, same size, 
more than 5)
REPIPE FOR WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS FOR 
SFR AND DUPLEX
CALIFORNIA'S EARTHQUAKE BRACE AND 
BOLT EARTHQUAKE RETROFIT PROGRAM
ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS FOR SFR AND 
DUPLEX
ELECTRICAL REWIRING FOR SFR AND 
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
HVAC INSTALLATIONS (Replacement, 
Relocations and new Installations for SFR and 
Duplex)
Page 2.4
177 of 311

--- page 178 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
IV.
W.
1. Single Family Dwellings
Each Combination Permit
$450.00 
2. Multi-family Buildings
Up to 15 kW 
Each
$450.00 
16 kW and up
Each
$450.00 
+ $15.00 for each additional kW
3. Commercial Buildings
Up to 50 kW
Each
$1,000.00 
51 kW to 250 kW
Each
$1,000.00 
+ $7.00 for each additional kW up to 250 kW
251 kW and up
Each
$2,400.00 
+ $5.00 for each additional kW over 250 kW
X.
1. Single Family Dwellings
Each Combination Permit
$450.00 
2. Multi-family Buildings
Up to 15 kW 
Each
$450.00 
16 kW and up
Each
$450.00 
+ $15.00 for each additional kW
3. Commercial Buildings
Up to 30 kWth
Each
$1,000.00 
31 kWth to 260 kWth
Each
$1,000.00 
+ $7.00 for each additional kWth up to 260 kWth
261 kWth and up
Each
$2,610.00 
+ $5.00 for each additional kWth over 260 kWth
Y.
1. Single Family Dwellings & Duplexes
Each
$190.00 
2. Multi-Family/Commercial (Level I/II)
1-3 Stations
Each
$465.00 
4-6 Stations
Each
$622.00 
7+ Stations
Each
$899.00 
Multi-Family/Commercial (Level III)
1-3 Stations
Each
$581.00 
4-6 Stations
Each
$778.00 
7+ Stations
Each
$1,373.00 
MISC. INSPECTIONS AND FEES (continued)
Applicable to building, plumbing, electrical and 
mechanical permits.
ROOFTOP SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (Fee set by
State of California AB-1414; sunsets 1/1/2025)
SOLAR THERMAL SYSTEMS (Fee set by State of 
California AB-1414; sunsets 1/1/2025)
ELECTRICAL VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS
Page 2.5
178 of 311

--- page 179 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
V.
ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES
A.
MINIMUM ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$151.00 
B.
PERMIT ISSUANCE
Each
$72.00 
C.
SYSTEM FEE SCHEDULE
1. Private Swimming Pools
For new private, residential, in- ground,
swimming pools for single- family & multi-
family occupancies including a complete system
of necessary branch circuit wiring, bonding,
grounding, underwater lighting, water pumping,
& other similar electrical equipment directly
related to the operation of a swimming pool.
For other types of swimming pools, therapeutic
whirlpools, spas & alterations to existing
swimming pools, use the UNIT FEE SCHEDULE
Each
$234.00 
2. Temporary Power Service
For a temporary service power pole or pedestal
including all pole or pedestal-mounted receptacle
outlets & appurtenances.
For a temporary distribution system & temporary
lighting & receptacle outlets for construction
sites, decorative light, Christmas tree sales lots,
firework stands, etc.
Each
$78.00 
D.
Sq Ft.
$0.10 
E.
The following do not include permit issuing fee.
1. Receptacle, Switch and Lighting Outlets1
For receptacle, switch, lighting or other outlets at
which current is used or controlled, except
services, feeders and meters.
First 20
Each
$78.00 
Add'l outlets
Each
$2.00 
2. Lighting Fixtures
For lighting fixtures, sockets or other lamp-
holding devices.
First 20 
Each
$78.00 
Add'l fixtures
Each
$2.00 
For pole or platform-mounted lighting fixtures.
Each
$39.00 
For theatrical-type lighting fixtures or assemblies.
Each
$39.00 
3. Residential Appliances2 
Each
$118.00 
For fixed residential appliances or receptacle
outlets for same, including wall-mounted electric
ovens; counter-mounted cooking tops; electric
ranges, self-contained room, console, or through-
wall air- conditioners; space heaters; food waste
grinders; dish-washers; washing machines; water
heaters; clothes dryers; or other motor operated
appliances not exceeding one horsepower (HP) in
rating.
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS
Use the UNIT FEE SCHEDULE when fixture count 
is 20 or less. Otherwise, use square footage to 
calculate permit fees.
UNIT FEE SCHEDULE
1  NOTE:  For multi-outlet assemblies, each 5 feet or fraction thereof may be considered as one outlet.
Page 2.6
179 of 311

--- page 180 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
V.
ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES (continued)
4. Nonresidential Appliances2
Each
$157.00 
For nonresidential appliances and self-contained
factory-wired, nonresidential appliances not
exceeding one horsepower (HP), kilowatt (kW),
or kilovolt-ampere (KA), in rating including
medical and dental devices; food, beverage, and
ice cream cabinets; illuminated show cases;
drinking fountains; vending machines; laundry
machines; or other similar types of equipment.
5. Power Apparatus3
For motors, generators, transformers, rectifiers,
synchronous converters, capacitors, industrial
heating, air conditioners and heat pumps, cooking
or baking equipment and other apparatus, as
follows: Rating in horsepower (HP), kilowatts
(kW), kilovolt- amperes (KA), or kilovolt-
amperes- reactive (KVAR):
Up to and including 1
Each
$78.00 
2 - 10
Each
$91.00 
11 - 50
Each
$185.00 
51 -100
Each
$139.00 
101 and Over
Each
$292.00 
6.
Busways4
100 Ft. or Fraction Thereof
$75.00 
For trolley and plug-in type busways
7. Signs, Outline Lighting & Marquees5
For signs, outline lighting systems or marquees
supplied from one branch circuit.
Each
$78.00 
For add'l branch circuits within the same sign,
outline lighting system or marquee.
Each
$13.00 
8. Services5
For services of 600 volts or less & not over 200
amperes in rating.
Each
$78.00 
For services of 600 volts or less & over 200 -
1000 amperes in rating.
Each
$237.00 
For services over 600 volts or over 1000 amperes
in rating.
Each
$275.00 
9. Miscellaneous Apparatus, Conduits, Conductors
& Circuits5
For electrical apparatus, conduits, conductors, &
circuits for which a permit is required but for
which no fee is herein set forth.
Each
$118.00 
2  NOTE:  For other types of air conditioners and other motor-driven appliances having larger electrical ratings, see Power Apparatus.
3 NOTE: A) For equipment or appliances having more than one more, transformer, heater, etc., the sum of the combined ratings may be used.
B) These fees include all switches, circuit breakers, contactors, thermostats, relays and other directly related control equipment.
4 NOTE: An add'l fee will be required for lighting fixtures, motors and other appliances that are connected to trolley & plug-in type busways.
No fee is required for portable tools.
5  NOTE: This fee is not applicable when a fee is paid for one or more services, outlets, fixtures, appliances, power apparatus, busways, signs or other 
equipment.
Page 2.7
180 of 311

--- page 181 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
VI. MECHANICAL PERMIT FEES
A.
MINIMUM MECHANICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$151.00 
B.
PERMIT ISSUANCE
1. For the issuance of permit
$72.00 
C.
Sq Ft.
$0.10 
D.
UNIT FEE SCHEDULE
1. For the installation or relocation of each forced-
air or gravity type furnace or burner, including
ducts & vents attached to such appliances, up to
& including 100,000 Btu/h.
 Each 
$78.00 
2. For the installation or relocation of each forced-
air or gravity type furnace or burner, including
ducts & vents attached to such appliance over
100,000 Btu/h.
 Each 
$198.00 
3. For the installation or relocation of each floor
furnace, including vent.
 Each 
$78.00 
4. For the installation or relocation of each
suspended heater, recessed wall heater or floor
mounted unit heater.
 Each 
$159.00 
5. For the installation, relocation or replacement of
each appliance vent installed & not inc'd in an
appliance permit.
 Each 
$78.00 
6. For the repair of, alteration of, or addition to each
heating appliance, refrigeration unit, cooling unit,
absorption unit or each heating, cooling,
absorption, or evaporative cooling system,
including installation of controls regulated by this
code.
 Each 
$78.00 
7. For the installation or relocation of each boiler or
compressor to and including three h.p., or each
absorption system to and including 100,000
Btu/h.
 Each 
$78.00 
8. For the installation or relocation of each boiler or
compressor over three h.p. to & including 15 h.p.,
or each absorption system over 100,000 Btu/h &
including 500,000 Btu/h.
 Each 
$172.00 
9. For the installation or relocation of each boiler or
compressor over 15 h.p. to & including 30 h.p.,
or each absorption system over 500,000 Btu/h to
and including 1,000,000 Btu/h.
 Each 
$225.00 
10. For the installation or relocation of each boiler or
compressor over 30 h.p. to and including 50 h.p.,
or for each absorption system over 1,000,000
Btu/h to and including 1,750,000 Btu/h.
 Each 
$278.00 
11. For the installation or relocation of each boiler or
refrigeration compressor over 50 h.p., or each
absorption system over 1,750,000 Btu/h.
 Each 
$358.00 
12. For each air-handling unit to and including
10,000 cubic feet per minute, including ducts
attached thereto. NOTE: This fee shall not apply
to an air-handling unit which is a portion of a
factory-assembled appliance, cooking unit,
evaporative cooler or absorption unit for which a
permit is required elsewhere in this code.
 Each 
$240.00 
13. For each air-handling unit over 10,000 cfm.
 Each 
$319.00 
14. For each evaporative cooler other than portable
type.
 Each 
$78.00 
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS
Use the UNIT FEE SCHEDULE when fixture count
is 3 or less. Otherwise, use square footage to calculate
permit fees
Page 2.8
181 of 311

--- page 182 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
VI. MECHANICAL PERMIT FEES (continued)
15. For each ventilation fan connected to a single
duct.
 Each 
$78.00 
16. For each ventilation system which is not a portion
of any heating or air condition system authorized 
by a permit.
 Each 
$78.00 
17. For the installation of each hood which is served 
by mechanical exhaust, including the ducts for 
such hood.
 Each 
$80.00 
18. For the installation or relocation of each domestic-
type incinerator.
 Each 
$39.00 
19. For the installation or relocation of each 
commercial or industrial type incinerator.
 Each 
$159.00 
20. For each appliance or piece of equipment 
regulated by this code but not classed in other 
appliance categories, or for which no other fee is 
listed in this code.
 Each 
$118.00 
VII. PLUMBING PERMIT FEES
A.
MINIMUM PLUMBING PERMIT FEE
$151.00 
B.
PERMIT ISSUANCE
 Each 
$72.00 
1. For the issuance of permit
C.
Sq Ft.
$0.10 
D.
UNIT FEE SCHEDULE
1. For each plumbing fixture or trap or set of
fixtures on one trap (including water, drainage
piping and backflow protection).
 Each 
$78.00 
2. For each building sewer
 Each 
$78.00 
3. Rain water systems - per drain (inside building).
 Each 
$78.00 
4. For each water heater and/or vent.
 Each 
$78.00 
5. Tankless Water Heater
 Each 
$308.00 
6. For each industrial waste pretreatment interceptor
including its trap and vent, excepting kitchen- 
type grease interceptors functioning as fixture
traps.
 Each 
$78.00 
7. For installation, alteration or repair of water
piping and/or water treating equipment.
 Each 
$78.00 
8. For repair or alteration of drainage or vent piping.
 Each Fixture 
$78.00 
9. For each lawn sprinkler system on any one meter,
including backflow protection devices.
 Each System 
$78.00 
10. For atmospheric-type vacuum breakers not
included in Item 2:
$78.00 
1 to 5
 Each 
$78.00 
over 5
 Each 
$78.00 
11. For each backflow protective device other than
atmospheric-type vacuum breakers
2 inches & smaller 
 Each 
$78.00 
over 2 inches
 Each 
$78.00 
12. For each gas piping system
1-4 Outlets
$78.00 
13. For each gas piping system of five or more outlets
Per Outlet
$3.00 
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS
Use the UNIT FEE SCHEDULE when fixture count
is 3 or less. Otherwise, use square footage to calculate
permit fees
Page 2.9
182 of 311

--- page 183 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
VIII. SIGN PERMIT FEES**
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$4.85 
 Minimum 
$38.80 
 Maximum 
$455.90 
 Each 
$78.00 
IX. CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$1.08 
A.
B.
C.
X.
A.
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$10.79 
B.
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$5.40 
C.
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$26.99 
XI.
 Each 
0.5% of valuation
All permanent signs
Temporary Banner (30-day)
**PENALTY: When a sign permit is required and a sign is installed prior to obtaining a permit, a double fee shall be charged.
HOTELS
RETAIL, RESTAURANTS, AND SERVICES
OFFICE, RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT USES, 
AND MEDICAL OFFICES
ART IN PUBLIC PLACE FEE
The fee is applicable to commercial and multi-family 
residential projects exceeding three (3) million dollars in 
building permit valuation.
Projects over 10,000 sq. ft. that are one or more of the
following:
NEW COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT OF 
SUPERSTRUCTURE
ADDITION OF SQUARE FOOTAGE TO 
EXISTING COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS 
REQUIRING PLANNING APPROVAL
COMMERCIAL LINKAGE FEE
(City Council adopted September 16, 2016 - effective 
November 16, 2016)
New commercial construction in excess of 5,000 
Exempts public uses such as hospitals, nonprofit and 
government facilities, churches, schools and child care 
Page 2.10
183 of 311

--- page 184 ---
UNIT
I.
1.
First Citation
$100.00
If not Abated, Second Citation
$200.00
If not Abated, Third Citation
$500.00
II.
First Citation
$200.00
If not Abated, Second Citation
$300.00
If not Abated, Third Citation
$500.00
III.
Each Case
Actual Cost *
IV.
Each Appeal
$500.00
V.
Each Inspection
$100.00
ABATEMENT ORDER VIOLATION CORRECTION RE-INSPECTION
FEE
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
CODE ENFORCEMENT
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
 FEE 
NUISANCE ABATEMENT FEES FOR VIOLATIONS OF THE SMMC 
WHICH ARE SUBJECT TO ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION PER 
SMMC 1.10.
Violations of the SMMC Administrative Citation Ordinance which have 
been abated within 10 days of service and verified by the Code 
Enforcement Division have a reduced fee.
NUISANCE ABATEMENT FEES FOR VIOLATIONS OF THE SAME 
SMMC SECTION WITHIN 12 MONTHS OF INITIAL CITATION
VIOLATIONS OF THE SMMC REQUIRING 1) ORDER OF 
ABATEMENT, 2) AN INSPECTION OF SEIZURE WARRANT, 3) A 
POSTING OF AN ORDER DESIGNATING THE PROPERTY AS 
UNSAGE TO OCCUPY, 4) THE COMMENCEMENT OF THE CIVIL 
LITIGATION PROCEEDINGS OR 5) SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF 
*Actual Cost includes all costs of abatement, including, but not limited to: code
enforcement staff, and associated indirect costs, such as labor, equipment, private
contractor, materials, materials storage, and all other costs reasonable and
necessary to abate the nuisance.
APPEAL OF A DECISION OR ORDER TO ABATE
Page 3.1
184 of 311

--- page 185 ---
CHARGE TYPE
FEE OR INITIAL DEPOSIT
I.
PLANNING APPLICATIONS
A. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
DECISION (SINGLE FAMILY ONLY OR CERTIFICATE OF
PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY - ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES)
Initial Deposit
$4,000.00
B. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
DECISION (OTHER THAN SINGLE FAMILY OR PCNs)
Initial Deposit
$6,000.00
C. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- PLANNING COMMISSION
DECISION
Initial Deposit
$10,000.00
D. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- PLANNING COMMISSION &
CITY COUNCIL DECISION
Initial Deposit
$20,000.00
E. FENCE EXCEPTION SPAR PLANNING APPLICATION
Initial Deposit
$2,000.00
F. SPECIAL USE PERMIT - DAY CARE FACILITIES
Flat fee
$2,000.00
G. ANNUAL REVIEW OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
Initial Deposit
$4,000.00
H. DESIGN REVIEW BY CONSULTING ARCHITECT (required for
projects with 6+ units, 10,000+ SF non-residential; or other projects
as determined by City Resolution)
Initial Deposit
$5,000.00
I.
LARGE PROJECT PRE-APPLICATION
Initial Deposit
$15,000.00
J.
INFORMATIONAL NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING (PRE-
APPLICATION) PUBLIC NOTICE LIST PREPARATION
Flat Fee
$300.00
K. MODIFICATIONS OF APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATIONS-
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR DECISION
Initial Deposit
$3,000.00
L. MODIFICATIONS OF APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATIONS-
PLANNING COMMISSION DECISION
Initial Deposit
$10,000.00
II.
ENVIRONMENTAL CLEARANCE (CEQA) PROCESSING
A. CATEGORICAL OR STATUTORY EXEMPTION (Excluding
Single Family and PCNs)
Initial Deposit
$500.00
B. INITIAL STUDY/NEGATIVE DECLARATION
Initial Deposit
$5,000.00
C. INITIAL STUDY/EIR
Initial Deposit
$10,000.00
D. MANDATED FEDERAL, STATE OR COUNTY FEES (e.g., Fish
& Game CEQA Fee; Fish & Game Code §711.4; Negative
Declaration; EIR)
As Mandated by State
N/A
III. CITY STAFF TIME
All City departments reviewing a planning application.
Hourly Rate
$167.00
IV. MONITORING OF REQUIRED MITIGATION MEASURE
Initial Deposit for 
Determined for each project.
V.
INVESTIGATION
FEE for properties with code violations before or after planning 
approval.
Hourly Rate
$167.00
VI. RESEARCH FEE
A. RETRIEVAL OF OFF-SITE PLANNING APPLICATION
Flat Fee
$53.00
B. RESEARCH REQUIRING EXTENSIVE STAFF TIME
Job Cost Staff hourly rate
C. POST PLANNING APPLICATION PROJECT CONSULTATION
Job Cost after the 1st hour
VII. APPEALS
A. APPEAL FEE - ALL PLANNING APPLICATIONS
Flat Fee
$500.00
VIII. LANDSCAPE UNIT IN-LIEU FEES
Per Landscape Unit
$321.00
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
PLANNING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 4.1
185 of 311

--- page 186 ---
CHARGE TYPE
FEE OR INITIAL DEPOSIT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
PLANNING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
IX. SUBORDINATION PROCESSING FEE
Applies to requests to allow City Housing Program loans to 
subordinate to new mortgage lenders in conjunction with refinances.
Per Loan
$250.00
X.
A. In Lieu Fees for Fractional Units
1. Rental
0.1 Housing Unit
$25,962.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$51,924.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$77,887.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$103,849.00
2. Owner
0.1 Housing Unit
$22,478.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$44,956.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$67,434.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$89,912.00
B. In Lieu Fee for Projects Less than 11 Units
1. Rental
5 Unit Project
$129,811.00
6 Unit Project
$155,773.00
7 Unit Project
$181,735.00
8 Unit Project
$207,698.00
9 Unit Project
$233,660.00
10 Unit Project
$259,622.00
2. Owner
5 Unit Project
$112,390.00
6 Unit Project
$134,868.00
7 Unit Project
$157,346.00
8 Unit Project
$179,824.00
9 Unit Project
$202,302.00
10 Unit Project
$224,780.00
XI. POLICIES RE: PLANNING FEES
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.
The cost for staff time expended by all city staff pursuant to a planning application shall be billed to the project account at the 
hourly rate in section III.
The applicant shall pay the actual cost of any consultant services required to process a planning application including the 
environmental (CEQA) clearance processing.
"Planning applications" include: site plan and architectural review; special use permit; temporary use permit; variance; site 
development permit; subdivision and parcel maps; reclassification; planned development; general plan amendment; specific plan 
amendment; code amendments regarding land use regulation; development agreements, downtown economic development permit;  
planned signing districts and freestanding signs over 8 feet in commercial districts, single family dwelling design review (SFDDR), 
mills act contract, historic building survey amendment,  historic building demolition permit.
BELOW MARKET RATE HOUSING FEE
A fee in lieu of constructing affordable housing units onsite per Below 
Market Rate program:
If the cost of the staff time spent on the application(s) is less than the amount of the deposit, the balance shall be refunded to the 
applicant.
If at any time before action is taken on an application, more than 70% of the deposit has been expended on the application, the 
applicant shall be required to pay an additional deposit.
No public hearing on a planning application shall be held unless all deposits requested have been fully paid. No application by an 
applicant shall be accepted as complete pursuant to title 27 of the San Mateo Municipal Code if that applicant has failed to pay 
amounts due and payable for another planning application.
The applicant is responsible for paying the costs of staff and consultant time incurred pursuant to any appeal.
Page 4.2
186 of 311

--- page 187 ---
UNIT
FEE
I. BUSINESS LICENSE LISTING
Each Qtr.
$32.00
II. RETURNED CHECK PROCESSING CHARGE
(Non-sufficient fund checks and other issues)
Each
$25.00
III. STATE MANDATED DISABILITY ACCESS FEE (SB 1186)
On each Business Tax application and renewal
Each
$4.00
IV. NEW BUSINESS - FIRE INSPECTION
Each
See Note Below* 
V. COLLECTION REFERRAL CHARGE
Each
$25.00
FINANCE DEPARTMENT
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
*This fee is collected on behalf of the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department. Please see the San Mateo Consolidated
Fire Department's fee schedule for current fees that will be collected by the City of San Mateo on behalf of San Mateo
Consolidated Fire Department at: smcfire.org/i-want-to
Page 5.1
187 of 311

--- page 188 ---
UNIT
FEE
I.
A. GIS SERVICES
Hour
$90.00
Additional Time (Hourly)
$90.00
B. HARDCOPY PLOTS OF CITY MAPS
Each
$16.50
DEPARTMENT OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
GIS MAPPING / ELECTRONIC DATA FEES
Page 6.1
188 of 311

--- page 189 ---
UNIT
FEE
I. FINES
A. OVERDUE MATERIAL
1. Adult  Materials
Per Day & Per Item
$0.25
2. Juvenile Materials
Per Day & Per Item
$0.15
**No overdue fines for borrowers ages 19 & under
3. Technology Lending Devices
Per Day & Per Item
$1.00
a. Cleaning Fee for Devices
Per Item
$10.00
B. OVERDUE MAXIMUM FINE
1. Adult
Per Item
$8.00
2. Juvenile
Per Item
$4.00
II. FEES
A.
Per Item
Price of material
+ processing fee of $5.00
B. COPY CHARGES
1. Photocopy machine
a. Black/white copies
Per Copy
$0.15
2. Computer printer copy
a. Black/white copies
Per Page After 3 Pages
$0.15
b. Microform reader-printer
Per Copy
$0.15
c. Color computer printer copy
Per Copy
$0.30
C. COMMUNITY MEETING ROOMS, MAIN LIBRARY
1. Oak Room and courtyard
a. Non profit/not for profit (business hours)
$185.00 for 1st 4 hours
+ $30 each additional hour
b. Non profit/not for profit (after hours)
Per Hour
$155.00
c. Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$120.00
Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$185.00
d. Non-Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$185.00
Non-Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$245.00
e. San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$185.00
San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$275.00
f. Non San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$275.00
Non San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$365.00
g. Music recitals
Per Use (Up to 3 Hours)
$140.00
h. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
$350.00
2. Laurel and Cedar Rooms
a. Non profit/not for profit (business hours)
$100.00 for 1st 4 hours
+ $15 each additional hour
b. Non profit/not for profit (after hours)
Per Hour
$90.00
c. Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$90.00
Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$185.00
d. Non-Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$120.00
Non-Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$215.00
e. San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$185.00
San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$275.00
f. Non San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$275.00
Non San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$365.00
g. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
$250.00
REPLACEMENT CHARGE FOR EACH ITEM LOST OR 
DAMAGED
LIBRARY
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 7.1
189 of 311

--- page 190 ---
UNIT
FEE
LIBRARY
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
II. FEES (continued)
3. Library computer training room
a. Non profit/not for profit Use of:
1 -10 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$140.00 per every 4 hrs
11 - 20 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$185.00 per every 4 hrs
21 – 26 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$235.00 per every 4 hrs
b. Resident or Non-Resident Use of:
1 -10 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$190.00 per every 4 hrs
11 - 20 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$250.00 per every 4 hrs
21 – 26 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$320.00 per every 4 hrs
c. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
$500.00
d. A/V Technician Use of:
1 - 10 computers
Per Use
$35.00
11 - 20 computers
Per Use
$75.00
21 – 26 computers
Per Use
$110.00
4. Library – Other Areas
a. Other Library areas – fees to be determined on a case-by-case
basis by City Librarian or designee
Per Hour/Per Area
Up to $365.00
b. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
Up to $500
5. Miscellaneous Meeting Room Fees
a. A/V Technician
Per Use
$35.00
A/V Technician – special projects
Per Hour
$55.00
b. Portable Stage rental:
Single stage (8’x6’x16”)
Per Use
$155.00
Double stage (16’x6’x16”)
Per Use
$215.00
c. Conference Phone rental
Per Use
$35.00
d. Piano tuning (special request)
Each
$200.00
D. COMPUTER FILES STORAGE DEVICES
1. USB flash drive
Each
$15.00
E. MATERIAL RECOVERY FEE
Per Account
$10.00
F. PASSPORT PROCESSING SERVICES
1. Adult Passport Book & Card
Each
$175.00
2. Adult Passport Book
Each
$145.00
3. Adult Passport Card
Each
$65.00
4. Minor Passport Book & Card
Each
$130.00
5. Minor Passport Book
Each
$115.00
6. Minor Passport Card
Each
$50.00
7. Expedite Fee Per Passport
Each
$60.00
8. Express Service to Processing Center
a. USPS Express Mail (up to 8 oz.)
Per Mailing Unit
Current postal rate
G.
1. One-time use fee per digital file for any medium
a. Personal/non profit use
Each
$20.00
b. For profit/commercial use
Each
$40.00
III. RESEARCH SERVICE
A. OBITUARY SEARCH SERVICE
Each
$20.00
Search for Non-San
Mateo County residents
USE FEES FOR PHOTOGRAPHS FROM DIGITAL ARCHIVES 
Page 7.2
190 of 311

--- page 191 ---









PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
RECREATION COST RECOVERY AND PRICING POLICY*
The following shall serve as the policy guidance for establishing a Recreation Activities Cost Recovery Plan, developing annual activity budgets, and 
establishing fees to be charged for recreation activities. The specific elements of this policy are that:
The Park and Recreation Cost Recovery and Pricing Model shall be used.
In recognition of the wide variety of service values and revenue generating potentials of various activities, specific cost recovery thresholds shall 
be established for each recreation activity area at the most specific programming level that is administratively practical.
The thresholds shall include both minimum and target levels of cost recovery.
Strategies for achieving the minimum and target thresholds shall be established by staff for each activity area. These strategies may include 
immediate or gradual action depending upon the best interests of maintaining a strong program, achieving the target within a reasonable time 
period and current fiscal conditions.
Activity areas unable to meet their minimum threshold after these strategies have been applied shall be reviewed by the Park and Recreation 
Commission for consideration of recommending appropriate action: reduce costs; reduce cost recovery target; eliminate activity.
Activities that have achieved or exceeded their target threshold shall be evaluated to determine if the target can/should be increased.
 The Cost Recovery Plan shall, where appropriate, also include specific other fee considerations (e.g. benchmarking to a specific competitor) 
that may supersede cost recovery target considerations.
Once a Cost Recovery Plan is established, and within that context, staff shall have the authority to set and adjust fees, except that no fee 
increase shall exceed 20% within a 1-year period without the review of the Park and Recreation Commission and approval of the City Council.
As part of the budgetary process, the Park and Recreation Commission shall review the Cost Recovery Plan and the performance of each 
activity compared to the plan and make any recommendations for changes to the plan.
Page 8.1
191 of 311

--- page 192 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
Operating Indirect Overhead (Op IOH): Division level and shared costs, such as departmental management, brochure, printing, 
photocopying, training, accounting support, technology, credit card discount costs, administrative office clerical support, 
computer, and recreation equipment sinking fund charges
Facility Indirect Overhead (Fac IOH): Calculated charges for the Public Works Building Maintenance for on-going 
maintenance and repairs (e.g. plumbing, electrical, mechanical, carpentry, painting).
Recreation Cost Tier Definitions
Direct: The specific “go-away” costs at the course or activity level. These include leaders, instructors and materials or services 
(e.g. transportation) specific to the course or activity.
Program Direct Overhead (DOH): Direct supervision of the program, and minor miscellaneous items such as supervisor 
mileage.
Facility Overhead (FOH): The combination of facility direct costs (the day-to-day costs to keep the building open- receptionist, 
custodial services, custodial products, utilities) and facility direct overhead (primarily facility supervision).
Page 8.2
192 of 311

--- page 193 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
MINIMUM
Direct
Direct
75% Direct
Direct
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
MINIMUM
Direct
50% of Direct
100% Subsidy
Direct
Direct
Direct
Direct
Direct
Direct
Swimming Lessons
King Center Teen Programs
King Center Drop-In
Senior Services Link
Group 2- Composed of core programs for youth and seniors, with service values as higher consideration. Typical thresholds 
ACTIVITY
Children's Services Center Based 
King Center Children's Programs
Youth Art
Youth Gymnastics
Teen Dances
Senior Center Programs
Senior Center Special Events
Children's Services Special 
Youth Dance/Dance Shows
RECREATION PROGRAMS COST RECOVERY PLAN - TABLE OF TARGETS
Group 1- Highest service value consideration- composed of core youth programs. Typical thresholds ranges: Minimum- From 
100% subsidy to direct cost recovery. Target- From 100% subsidy through Direct Overhead (DOH).
Recreation Swim
Building Blocks
Summer Flex Camps
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
Benchmark fees to bottom end of Peninsula cities
Benchmark fees to mid-point of Peninsula cities
ACTIVITY
TARGET
Through FOH
Through DOH
Direct
Through DOH
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
Benchmark fees to mid-point of Peninsula cities.
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
TARGET
Direct +20%
Direct
100% Subsidy
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Direct
Direct
Through DOH
Page 8.3
193 of 311

--- page 194 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
MINIMUM
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Direct + additional 
required office staffing
Through DOH
67% of food costs
MINIMUM
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
NOTE:
*
Fees established through the Recreation Cost Recovery and Pricing Policy shall be collected at the time of course registration, with 
certain exceptions. Prior to completion of a course, patrons may withdraw from a course and receive a refund. Refunds may be 
returned immediately or left on account with the Recreation Division for two years. After two years, all credits left on account by 
patrons that have not participated in Division activities for two years or more are donated to the Recreation Fee Assistance 
Program.
Does not include special non-general fund revenues or expenses from grants, trust, etc.
Youth Sports Camps
Miscellaneous Athletic Activities
Beresford Kids Club
Through FOH
Through FOH
RECREATION PROGRAMS COST RECOVERY PLAN - TABLE OF TARGETS (continued)
Group 3- Composed primarily of adult core, and youth additional typical programs, in which both service and cost recovery 
values are of strong consideration. Typical thresholds ranges: Minimum- Through Direct Overhead (DOH). Target- Through 
Facility Overhead (FOH)
ACTIVITY
Youth Music/Drama
Through FOH
Benchmark fees to San Mateo Foster City School 
Through FOH
Martial Arts
Through Operating 
Indirect Overhead
Adult Music/Drama
Adult Dance
Senior Lunch
Specialized Aquatics Programs
Adult Swimfit
Tennis
Adult Sports Leagues
Adult Arts and Crafts
Benchmark fees to less than top of market.
Fees less than top of market.
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
TARGET
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Adult Fitness
Youth Fitness
Golf Lessons
Ice Skating
Youth Leisure Education
Adulst Leisure Education
Full Cost Recovery
Through FOH
Through FOH
Group 4- Composed primarily of specialty activities, with cost recovery considerations of highest consideration among the 4 
groups. Typical thresholds ranges: Minimum- Through Direct Overhead (DOH). Target- range of from through Facility 
Overhead (FOH) to full recovery.
ACTIVITY
TARGET
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
Through Operating 
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Direct
Page 8.4
194 of 311

--- page 195 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
 UNIT 
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
12/31/20
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/21
I.
FACILITY RENTAL FEES
A.
Beresford
Shelter
Per Use
$175.00
$180.00
Area #1
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Area #2
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Area #3
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Bocce Court Tables
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Central
Entire Area 
Per Use
$415.00
$425.00
Area 1
Per Use
$175.00
$180.00
Area 2
Per Use
$85.00
$85.00
Area 3
Per Use
$85.00
$85.00
Area 4 
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Harborview Park
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Indian Springs Park
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Joinville
Entire facility
Per Use
$200.00
$205.00
Area 1
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Area 2
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Area 3
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
King
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Lakeshore 
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Laurelwood 
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Los Prados 
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Paddock Park
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Parkside Aquatic
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Ryder Park
Area 1
Per Use
$85.00
$85.00
Area 2
Per Use
$85.00
$85.00
Entire Facility 
Per Use
$175.00
$180.00
Shoreview
Per Use
$85.00
$85.00
Alcohol Fee 
Per Use
$50.00
$50.00
Jumper Fee
Per Use
$25.00
$25.00
Picnic Use/Cleanup Deposit 
Beresford Shelter
Per Use
$250.00
$255.00
Central Park – entire area 
Per Use
$250.00
$255.00
Bayside/Joinville – entire area 
Per Use
$250.00
$255.00
Ryder – entire area
Per Use
$250.00
$255.00
All other areas
Per Use
$250.00
$255.00
B. SPECIAL PARK PERMITS 
Filming for commercial purposes 
Hour
$50.00
$50.00
Japanese Garden or Rose Garden
Per Use
$200.00
$205.00
Per Use
$250.00
$255.00
Per Hour
$98.00
$100.00
Per Hour
$122.00
$125.00
Per Booking
$30.00
$30.00
Per Use
$28.00
$28.00
Per Use
$145.00
$150.00
Central outdoor stage
Per Use
$50.00
$50.00
Special Event Fee (minimum two hours)
Per Hour
$25.00
$25.00
Special Event Alcohol Fee
Per Use
$255.00
$260.00
Non-Resident
Resident Extra Hours
Non Profit Rate
Per occasion when using rec ctr.
Resident
PICNIC AREAS
Casanova
Non Resident Extra Hours
Chair Set-up
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 8.5
195 of 311

--- page 196 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
UNIT
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
12/31/20
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/21
I.
FACILITY RENTAL FEES (continued)
C.
Field Reservations
Priority 1
No fee
No fee
Priority 2
Youth Field Player Fee 
Per Player
$8.00
$8.00
Weekday and Half Day
Per Use
$8.00
$8.00
Weekend/Holiday Full Day 
Per Use
$15.00
$15.00
Tournament
Per Use/Field
$100.00
$100.00
Tournament Refundable Deposit
Per Use/Field
$255.00
$260.00
Priority 3-4
Youth Field Player Fee 
Per Player
$20.00
$20.00
Weekday and Half Day
Per Use
$20.00
$20.00
Weekend/Holiday Full Day 
Per Use
$40.00
$40.00
Tournament
Per Use
$205.00
$210.00
Tournament Refundable Deposit
Per Use/Field
$255.00
$260.00
Priority 5
Resident Adult Field Res
Per Hour
$25.00
$25.00
Priority 6
NR Adult Reservation Field
Per Hour
$32.00
$32.00
Non-Athletic based NP Field Reservation
Per Hour
$15.00
$15.00
Private Tournament
Per Use/Field
$205.00
$210.00
Refundable Deposit
Per Use/Field
$255.00
$260.00
Light Charges
Per Hour
$25.00
$25.00
Fields - Unlocked Soccer Goal Fee 
Per Request
$25.00
$25.00
Field Attendant
Per Hour
$19.00
$20.00
Tennis Court Reservation
Per Hour
$9.00
$9.00
Bocce Courts (4 hours or less) 
Per Booking
$11.00
$11.00
Bocce Courts (4+ hours) 
Per Booking
$25.00
$25.00
Outdoor Fitness Fee
Per Hour
$25.00
$25.00
San Mateo High School Gymnasium Rentals
Gym
Per Hour
$75.00
$75.00
Lobby
Per Hour
$30.00
$30.00
Dance Studio
Per Hour
$35.00
$35.00
Multi-Purpose Room
Per Hour
$35.00
$35.00
ATHLETICS (Priority Levels defined on page 8.13)
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 8.6
196 of 311

--- page 197 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
UNIT
II.
AQUATICS - (See Classification Categories on page 8.12)
D. CENTER RENTALS - (See pages 8.10 - 8.12)
JOINVILLE
Large Pool (includes Dressing Room)
Classification A
No Charge
Classification B
$24.00
Classification E
$35.00
Non-Resident
$43.00
Small Pool (includes Dressing Room)
Classification A
No Charge
Classification B
$12.00
Classification E
$18.00
Non-Resident
$22.00
Multi-Purpose Room
Off Season Closure Period
BIRTHDAY PARTY FEE
Reservation Fee/Deposit
Includes 15 Guests
$95.00
Additional Guests
Up to 20 Guests
$6.00
KING POOL
Both Pools (includes Dressing Room)
Classification A
No Charge
Classification B
$20.00
Classification E
$30.00
Non-Resident
$37.00
Off Season Closure Period
BOATHOUSE
Classification A
No Charge
Classification B
$20.00
Classification E
$32.00
Non-Resident
$41.00
FACILITY PERS. RATES
Custodian
Per Hour
$30.00
Facility Specialist
Per Hour
$20.00
LIFEGUARDS
1st Guard - Senior Guard
Per Hour
$20.00
2nd & each additional Guard
Per Hour
$17.00
MARINA LAGOON
Boating pass (power boats 5 hp and up)
Annual
$450.00
Daily
$40.00
Boating pass (under 5 hp and sail over 8 ft.)
Annual
$250.00
Daily
$25.00
III. MISCELLANEOUS FEES
Volleyball net and standards rental
Per Weekend
$30.00
Refundable Deposit
$100.00
Custodian 
Per Hour
$30.00
Clay
25 lb Bag
Actual cost
PHOTOCOPY & MAILINGS
Agendas
Year
$6.00
Agendas & Minutes
Year
$12.00
Photocopies
Per Sheet
$0.15
IV. SCHOOL DISTRICT FEES
A.  
B. SAN MATEO FOSTER CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT (SMFCSD)
By negotiation - full cost 
recovery
By negotiation - full cost 
Fees shall be applied to the district and affiliated organizations (eg. PTA, Boosters, Foundation) as follows
SAN MATEO HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
Unless otherwise specified in an adopted facility use agreement, indoor, swimming pool and athletic facility fees shall be calculated administratively to be 
comparable to the SMUHSD fee schedule as it pertains to City use of similar SMUHSD facilities.
Picnic and special park facility fees, and staffing fees charged to SMUHSD shall be at the rates described in other sections of the fee schedule.
FEES
See Community Centers 
Category 4 (pg 8.10)
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 8.7
197 of 311

--- page 198 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
UNIT
V.
GOLF COURSE
A. GENERAL
Weekdays
Per Round
$39.00
Weekday Twilight
Per Round
$28.00
Weekday Super Twilight
Per Round
$20.00
Weekends (Fri., Sat., Sun., Holiday) 
Per Round
$55.00
Weekend Twilight
Per Round
$35.00
Weekend Super Twilight 
Per Round
$27.00
Weekday-back 9
Per Round
$25.00
Weekend-back 9
Per Round
$29.00
Sr. 10 Play Card
Each
$310.00
B. RESIDENT
Weekdays
Per Round
$34.00
Weekday Twilight
Per Round
$28.00
Weekday Super Twilight
Per Round
$20.00
Weekends (Fri., Sat., Sun., Holiday) 
Per Round
$47.00
Weekend Twilight
Per Round
$35.00
Weekend Super Twilight 
Per Round
$27.00
Weekday-back 9
Per Round
$25.00
Weekend-back 9
Per Round
$29.00
Senior Weekdays
Per Round
$30.00
Sr. 10 Play Card
Each
$260.00
C. JUNIOR
Jr. Weekdays
Per Round
$15.00
Jr. Weekend
Per Round
$18.00
D. RESIDENT GOLF I.D. CARD
Per Annual Fee
$20.00
E. RANGE BALLS (BUCKET)
Size: Warm-up
$5.00
Small
$8.00
Medium
$11.00
Large
$14.00
VI. PARK AND LANDSCAPE RESOURCES
A. HERITAGE TREE PERMIT
Per Permit
$80.00
Tree Replacement Cost (24" Box Tree)
Per Tree
$475.00
Right of Way Tree Removal
Per Hour
Per Residential Unit Type:
Per unit*
Single Family
$26,973.00
Multi-family 2-4 Units
$16,906.00
Multi-family 5+ Units
$19,470.00
Mobile Homes
$18,995.00
C.  
 Per $100 Valuation on 
Building Permit App. 
$0.30
Single Family
2.84
 
persons per unit
Multi-family 2-4 units
1.78
 
persons per unit
Multi-family 5+ units
2.05
 
persons per unit
Mobile Homes
2.00
 
persons per unit
VII.
A.
B.
Building Valuation on Those 
Building Permits Whose 
Valuation is Over $5,000
1These fees are collected by Community Development's Building Division - see page 2.3
Fee is per Consultant's rate
0.07%
Actual cost charged by a city 
designated private tree care 
company
B.
* Fee = Land Dedication Requirement x Median Land Value of $4,888,914 per acre adopted by City Council Resolution, where Land Dedication Requirement = 
[(Quantity of proposed dwelling units x population factor per dwelling unit type) less (quantity of existing dwelling units x population factor per dwelling unit type)] x (2 
acres/ 1000 population) per Muni Code Section 26.64. The population factors per dwelling unit type are as follows:
FEES
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT REVIEW FEE1
CONSULTANTS FOR SPECIALIZED PLAN CHECKING AND INSPECTION SERVICES OR 
TO EXPEDITE PLAN CHECKING AND INSPECTION SERVICES
REIMBURSE COST OF STAFF OR CONSULTANT TIME SPENT IN PLAN CHECK OR 
INSPECTION SERVICES. PARK PLAN CHECK AND INSPECTION SERVICES ON 
BUILDING PERMITS. FEE TO BE COLLECTED AT TIME OF BUILDING PERMIT 
APPLICATION. AFTER PAYMENT OF FEES, PERMITTEE MAY APPLY FOR AN 
EXEMPTION FOR PROJECTS HAVING NO PARK PLAN CHECK OR INSPECTION 
REQUIREMENTS.
PARK AND RECREATION TAX ON RESIDENTIAL BUILDING PERMITS1
PARK IN-LIEU FEE / PARK IMPACT FEE FOR RESIDENTIAL PLANNING APPLICATION 
PROJECTS INVOLVING PARCEL MAPS, SUBDIVISION AND OTHER MULTI-FAMILY 
RESIDENTIAL PROJECTS.
Golf Fees ‐ The Parks and Recreation Director may adjust green fee amounts for marketing and promotional
activities as is necessary to encourage optimum play at the municipal golf courses.
Page 8.8
198 of 311

--- page 199 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
Flat Per Use B-1*
$40.00
$30.00
$25.00
$15.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Flat Per Use B-2*
$50.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Flat Per Use B-3*
$45.00
$35.00
$30.00
$20.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Room Hourly E-1*
Room Hourly 
NR-1*
$120.00
$145.00
$95.00
$120.00
$75.00
$90.00
$40.00
$50.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Room Hourly E-2*
Room Hourly 
NR-2*
$170.00
$200.00
$145.00
$170.00
$120.00
$135.00
$70.00
$80.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Hourly E-2*
Hourly
NR-2*
N/A
N/A
$95.00
$120.00
$75.00
$90.00
$40.00
$50.00
Gymnasium (E1, E-2)
$25.00
E-2
$90.00
NR-2
$115.00
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
Community Center Fee Schedule
B-1 Classification: (Non-profit (including 501©(6)) conducting business activity)
Room Category
Category 1
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
Additional Hourly Charges: $19.00 Rental Officer per hour if needed; $29.00 Custodian per hour if needed.
Category 3
Category 4
Additional Hourly Charges: $19.00 Rental Officer per hour if needed; $29.00 Custodian per hour if needed.
B-2 Classification: (Non-profit booking on Sat/Sun beginning after 3 pm or ending after 6pm - fee applies to entire booking)
Room Category
Any Room
Additional Hourly Charges: $19.00 Rental Officer per hour if needed; $29.00 Custodian per hour if needed.
B-3 Classification: (B-1 groups reserving regular monthly meeting times.)
Room Category
Category 1
Category 2
E-2 & NR-2 Classification: (private, profit & non-resident business uses during non-business hours)
Room Category
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Birthday
Birthday
King
Category 4
Additional Hourly Charges: If requesting more than one room, use the following chart for additional fees:
Room Category
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
Additional Hourly Charges: $19.00 Rental Officer per hour if needed; $29.00 Custodian per hour if needed.
E-1 & NR-1 Classification: (private, profit & non-resident business uses during specifically designated operating hrs.)
Room Category
Page 8.9
199 of 311

--- page 200 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
Standin
Theatre
Facility
Room
Category
Beresford
Assembly
1
614
439
Beresford
Social
3
359
256
Beresford
Activity
3
540
385
Beresford
Conference
4
Beresford
Studio
4
333
238
Beresford
Club
4
342
244
Beresford
Assembly
2
Central
Activity 
A/B
2
265
189
Central
Activity A
4
Central
Stage
4
307
219
Central
Lounge
4
254
181
Central
Activity B
4
City Hall
City 
Council
2
City Hall
Room C
3
City Hall
Atrium
3
City Hall
Room A
4
211
150
City Hall
Room B
4
City Hall
Cafeteria
4
250
178
King
Assembly
1
125
89
King
Social A/B
2
125
89
King
Studio
4
84
60
King
Social A
4
King
Conference
4
King
Social B
4
Joinville Pool
Multipurpose
4
162
116
170
122
101
72
Sr. Center
Assem/MP
1
158
113
Sr. Center
Activity
3
125
89
Sr. Center
Assem/MP 
A
4
158
113
Sr. Center
Conference
4
150
107
C. FACILITY CATEGORY TABLES
88
Activity
102
111
114
Activity 
Sr. Center
Assembly
180
Central
Beresford
Assembly
205
King
Assembly
120
Central
Assembly
City Hall
Council 
Chambers
King
Social 
Beresford
Sr. Center
Assem/MP 
A (Back 
Half)
King
Social B
King
Conference
City Hall
Conf Rm 
Central
Activity 
Beresford
Conference
Beresford
Sr. Center
Activity
Facility
Room
Banquet
85
City Hall
Conf Rm 
C
City Hall
Atrium
Beresford
Social
Studio
83
70
26
Central
Lounge
Central
Stage
42
Beresford
Studio B
42
Beresford
Club
28
Beresford
Studio A
Multipurpose
54
Central
Activity B
57
City Hall
Conf Rm 
50
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
53
34
King
Studio
53
King
Social A
42
City Hall
Cafeteria
Joinville 
Note - Capacities are fire safety maximums. Rental capacities may vary and are established by each center consistent with use needs.
Page 8.10
200 of 311

--- page 201 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
Classification B:
Recreation activities and meetings that are organized, promoted, conducted, and sponsored by registered non-profits 
(IRS registered non-profit or established and organized not-for-profit groups with written organization documents, 
stationary, and/or membership lists) serving residents of the City of San Mateo and whose membership is open to 
the general public.
Classification B-1:
Any activities which are related to the business or mission of the organization.
FACILITY PERMIT CLASSIFICATION DEFINITIONS
Classification A:
Public recreation activities that are co-sponsored by or affiliated with the Recreation Department after meeting 
department qualifications and requirements.
B-1 groups participating in in-kind volunteer service fee waiver program.
Classification E:
Any recreation, social, business, or service activity conducted by any person or group not included within 
Classifications A or B and are residents or businesses of the City of San Mateo, such as parties and receptions.
E-1: E classification use during specifically designated public facility hours.
Classification B-2:
Any activities scheduled during "Prime Time," defined as any booking beginning 3 p.m. or later, or ending 6 p.m. 
or later on Saturdays and Sundays.
Classification B-3:
B-1 groups reserving regular monthly meeting times.
Classification B-4:
NR-2: NR use during non-public facility hours.
E-2: E classification use during non-public facility hours.
Non-Resident:
Recreation activities, social, business, or service, meetings, and private groups in which one-half of its current 
membership are not residents of the City of San Mateo or in the case of private groups, such as receptions at parties, 
the applicant (or business) is not a City resident.
NR-1: NR use during specifically designated public facility hours.
Page 8.11
201 of 311

--- page 202 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
Athletics Field Priorities
Priority 1:
Programs and activities conducted or sponsored by the City of San Mateo. This includes the San Mateo Police 
Activities League program(s).
Priority 2:
Priority 5:
A. Adult resident sports groups or teams.
B. Resident private rentals.
Priority 6:
Youth or Adult non-resident groups, teams, or individuals. Nonresident is defined as having an organization address 
outside of the San Mateo City limits and/or having less than 25% residency.
Programs conducted by Elementary Schools (K-8) within the City of San Mateo. Also programs conducted by 
organizations that limit their recruitment and sign-ups to individuals living within the San Mateo City limits and are 
recreational in nature having a "everyone plays; no child is turned away" philosophy. Residency requirement for 
Priority 2 consideration is a minimum of 90%
Priority 3:
Programs conducted by private high schools within the City of San Mateo. Also, programs conducted by organizations 
in which participants must "tryout" or be selected based on skill level. Organizations may be "select" in that 
participants may be recruited from cities other than San Mateo. Residency requirement for Priority 3 consideration is a 
minimum of 50%. Residency verification may be required.
Priority 4:
Programs conducted by organizations in which participants must "tryout" or be selected based on skill level. 
Organizations may be "select" in that participants may be recruited from cities other than San Mateo. Residency 
requirement for Priority 4 consideration is a minimum of 25% residency. Residency verification may be required.
Page 8.12
202 of 311

--- page 203 ---
UNIT
I.
PERMITS
A. MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT:
1. Establishment Certificate for Non-Practitioner Owners
Base Fee for Processing
$559.00
+ Actual Time Spent x Rate Per
Hour as Appropriate
2. Establishment Certificate for Owner/Practitioners
Verification/Processing/Safety Inspection
Base Fee for Processing
$279.00
+ Actual Time Spent x Rate Per
Hour as Appropriate
B. MASSAGE PRACTITIONER OFF- PREMISE
Verification/Processing
Each
$53.00
C. TANNING SALON
1. Tanning Facility Application Fee
Each
$475.00
2. Tanning Facility Biyearly Renewal Fee
Each Facility
$79.00
D.
TAXI CAB DRIVER Investigation/Processing
New/Renewal
$110.00 1
E. TAXI CAB INSPECTION
$132.00 2
F. ENTERTAINMENT PERMIT
Each
$305.00
G. TOW SERVICE
1. Tow Truck Application Fee
$278.00 1
2. Tow Truck Rotation List
$44.00
3. Tow Truck Licensing Fee
$3.00
H.
Fee/Per Hour
$154.00
II.
COPIES OF REPORTS
A. ACCIDENT REPORTS
Per Page
$0.15
B. CAD REPORTS
Per Page
$0.15
C. ARREST REPORTS
Per Page
$0.15
D. CLEARANCE LETTER
Each
$10.00
E. PUBLIC RECORDS REQUEST
Per Page
$0.15
III.
VIDEO/AUDIO TAPE RECORDS AND PHOTOS
A. VIDEO RECORDINGS
1.
Each
$12.00
B. PHOTOS
Each
$5.00
IV.
Each
$15.00
V.
A.
Per 1/4 Hour
$6.00
B.
Per Page
$0.10
C.
Each
Actual Cost
DVD / CD / Flash drive Recording
FILING OF REPORT OF REPOSSESSION 
(State Law GC 41612)
SUBPOENA DUCES TECUM
(State Law CEC 1563)
CLERICAL COSTS (Charged on a 1/4 hr basis w/the hrly rate set at $24.00)
STANDARD REPRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS OF A SIZE OF 8 1/2 X 
14 INCHES OR LESS
REPRODUCTION OF OVERSIZE DOCUMENTS, DOCUMENTS 
REQUIRING SPECIAL PROCESSING, POSTAGE, 
RETRIEVAL/RETURN OF RECORDS HELD OFF-SITE
POLICE DEPARTMENT
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
FEE
Background Investigation/Verification/ Processing/Safety Inspection
PROJECT PLAN CHECKING FEE ON BUILDING PERMITS
Page 9.1
203 of 311

--- page 204 ---
POLICE DEPARTMENT
UNIT
VI.
FALSE ALARMS
First alarm starting each fiscal year (7/1/20)
One
Free
2nd & over
Each
$104.00
VII.
Each
As determined by the County
VIII. OFFICER RESPONSE
A.
Per Hour
$86.00
B.
Per Hour
$86.00
Per Officer
(one (1) hour min.)
C.
See “SPECIAL COMMUNITY EVENTS PERMIT” Section
D.
Each
$275.00
(per CA Government Code 
68097.2)
IX.
VEHICLE RELEASES
A. IMPOUNDED/STORED VEHICLE
Each
$20.00
X.
One
$106.00
Additional
$70.00
XI.
OUTSIDE DETAIL RATES 3
Police Officer
Per Hour
$104.50
Police Sergeant
Per Hour
$125.37
Community Service Officer
Per Hour
$63.25
Sr. Dispatcher
Per Hour
$82.28
Police Reserve Officer
Per Hour
$81.96
Police Vehicle Abatement Officer
Per Hour
$51.20
Parking Enforcement Rep.
Per Hour
$37.38
Police Officer
Per Hour
$130.62
Police Sergeant
Per Hour
$156.72
Community Service Officer
Per Hour
$79.07
Sr. Dispatcher
Per Hour
$102.85
Police Reserve Officer
Per Hour
$102.45
Police Vehicle Abatement Officer
Per Hour
$63.99
Parking Enforcement Rep.
Per Hour
$46.73
Police Department Footnotes:
1 Plus prevailing State, Federal and County Fees for fingerprinting of applicants that are at the following costs:
DOJ Prevailing Fee
$32.00
FBI Prevailing Fee
$17.00
County Prevailing Fee
$5.00
$54.00
2
3 In the event the Police Department must augment staffing of an outside detail with personnel from an allied agency, the outside detail rate 
charged shall be commensurate to the actual rate which is charged by that agency, which may be higher/lower than the rate listed.
Category B: Fund raising events organized, conducted and sponsored by 
registered non- profit organizations.
Category C: Events sponsored by for-profit business or non-tax-exempt 
i
i
The fee will include up to two re-inspections at no additional cost.  Additional inspections will be billed at 50% of the original cost.
OUTSIDE DETAIL
CIVIL SUBPOENA WITNESS FEE DEPOSIT (Governed by State Law). 
Actual costs will be charged
(excluding vehicles towed exclusively under the authority of VC 22651(c),
(g), (k), (o), (i.)(l), or VC 226.55.5).
Category A: City organized, conducted, sponsored, or co-sponsored events, or 
non- profit sponsored events that benefit city programs.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
FEE
BOOKING FEE (UPON CONVICTION) STATE LAW SECTION 29550.1.
EMERGENCY RESPONSE TO DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE 
(DUI) upon conviction (Gov't Code Section 53150-58)
DISTURBANCE SERVICE FEE
(loud parties, barking dogs, etc.)
STORAGE OF FIREARM 
(Includes safekeeping)
Page 9.2
204 of 311

--- page 205 ---
POLICE DEPARTMENT
$77.00/ $10.00 w/POC
$46.00/ $10.00 w/POC
$46.00/ $10.00 w/POC
$42.00
$46.00
$42.00
$46.00
$46.00
$46.00
$46.00
$42.00
$46.00
$42.00
$46.00
$46.00
$335.00
$42.00
$335.00
$46.00
$46.00
$56.00
$46.00
$335.00
$144.00
$144.00
$46.00
$46.00
$46.00
$46.00
$46.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$46.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
Overtime in meter zone/feeding meter
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$46.00
11.48.070
Parking in bus zone (curb marked)
17.08.20
Boat or other object parked on public right-of-way
11.44.150
Meter violation
11.44.160
11.44.165
Repeat violations for overtime parking (2nd violation-same day, same place)
11.48.030
Parking in alley
11.40.110
Parked on private property w/o consent
11.44.090
Parked in front of a hooded meter
11.44.130
Parking over lines
11.40.060
Curb wheels/set brake on hill
11.40.070
Parking so as to obstruct traffic
11.40.100
Violation of emergency signs posted
11.40.040(a)
Restricted parking on City street (posted) (No residential parking permit)
11.40.040(b)
Restricted parking on City lot (posted) i.e., City Hall, Rec Centers, Library, etc.
11.40.055
Street sweeping
11.36.010(1)
Parallel parking in angle slot
11.36.020
Angle parking (right front tire not within 18” of curb)
11.40.040(a)
Restricted parking on City street (posted)
11.32.070
Red, yellow, etc., curb markings
11.32.100
Commercial vehicle on residential street, 10,000 lbs. GVW
11.32.105
Oversized vehicle/trailer parked on residential street
22523(b)
Abandon vehicle-public/private property
11.32.030
Truck parked on City street (may be used for limos, small shuttle buses, and small school 
b
)
11.32.040
Parked on parkway (Planting strip)
22521
Parking within 7 ½ feet of train tracks
22522
Blocking disabled ramp
22523(a)
Abandoned vehicle- any highway
22514
Blocking fire hydrant
22515(a)
Parked with engine running and/or parking brake not set
22516
Person locked in vehicle
22500(l)
Blocking wheelchair access to sidewalk
22502(a)
Not within 18” of the curb
22507.8
Handicapped parking
22500(h)
Double parking
22500(i)
Parking within bus zone
22500(k)
Parking upon any bridge
22500(e)
Blocking any driveway
22500(f)
Parking on a sidewalk
22500(g)
Obstructing traffic by parking near excavation
22500(b)
Parking within a crosswalk
22500(c)
Parking within a safety zone
22500(d)
Parking within 15 ft. of fire station driveway
21113
Parking on public grounds-no permit
22500.1
Fire lane
22500(a)
Parking within an intersection
PARKING PENALTY SCHEDULE
Only one violation per citation
4000(a)
Expired registration (make sure you check the POC box)
5200
License plates failure to display (make sure you check the POC box)
5204
Tabs (make sure you check the POC box)
Page 9.3
205 of 311

--- page 206 ---
UNIT
FEE
I.
PARKING FEES
A. TEMPORARY NO PARKING METERS (1)
Up to 7 days
Per Day/Per Meter
$12.50
8 – 49 days
Per Wk./Per Meter
$75.00
50 – 98 days
Per Wk./Per Meter
$150.00
99+ days
Per Wk./Per Meter
$300.00
Per Installation
$76.20
B. TEMPORARY "NO PARKING" SIGNS
Each
$3.00
C. DOWNTOWN PARKING FEE PARKING PASSES
2nd and El Camino Real 
Monthly
$65.00
Central Parking
Monthly
$100.00
Tennis Court Garage 
Monthly
$65.00
Main Street Garage 
Monthly
$65.00
Transit Center
Monthly
$65.00
Railroad Avenue between 5th to 9th
Monthly
$40.00
Kinko’s Lot – Lot 10,
Monthly
$40.00
Worker’s Resource Lot – Lot 11,
Monthly
$40.00
D. ON-STREET AND OFF-STREET RATES (per SMMC 11.40.010)
($0.50 minimum for credit cards at pay stations)
Time Limit:
Premium On-Street Space 
3 Hours/per Hour
$1.50
Premium Off-Street Facilities 
3 Hours/Per Hour
$1.25
Premium Off-Street Facilities
No Limit
$1.25
(Central Garage – Lots 4, 5, 6)
Value On-Street Spaces
3 Hours/Per Hour
$1.00
Value Off-Street Facilities 
3 Hours/Per Hour
$0.75
Value Off-Street Facilities
No Limit
$0.75
No Limit
$0.25
E. VALET PARKING PERMIT FEE 
Permit Fee 
Per Permit
$473.00
Implementation/Replacement Costs:
Curb Marking
Each Location
$84.00
Signs
Per Sign
$140.00
Meter Pole/Bracket
Per Pole/Bracket
$40.00
F.
Annually Per Space Per Day
$1.00 x # of spaces x # 
of days of operation per 
week x 52 weeks
G. PUBLIC EV CHARGING STATION
Per kW/h
$0.25
USE OF PUBLIC PARKING SPACES FOR VALET STATIONS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
For each time the City installs and removes a meter bag.
(Main Street Garage – Lot 1, Second and ECR Garage – Lot 2, Tennis Court Garage – Lot 3, 5th and 
B Lot – Lot 7, 4th and Railroad Lot – Lot 8, Transit Center – Lot 9, 5th to 9th Ave on S. Railroad 
Ave), Kinko’s Lot – Lot 10, and Worker’s Resource Lot – Lot 11
Page 10.1
206 of 311

--- page 207 ---
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
II. ENCROACHMENT PERMITS (see Encroachment Permit Notes (II))
A. NEW INSTALLATION PERMIT
Each
$896.00
Deposit
See Notes
1.
Each
$1,112.00
B. TEMPORARY PERMIT (Note II.B.)
1. Dumpster/Containers/Pods (Note II.B.1)
Each
$381.00
Deposit Per Location
$500.00
2.
Each
$381.00
Deposit Per Location
$1,000.00
C.  DOCK PERMIT 
1. New Installation and Repair or Replacement (Note II.C.1)
Each
$167.00
Min Deposit Per Dock
$1,000.00
2. Annual Fee (Note II.C.2)
Per Dock
$128.00
D. UTILITY PERMIT
1. Permit Processing Fee (Note II.D.1)
See Notes
2. Deposit for Large projects (Note II.D.2)
Min Deposit Per Location
$1,000.00
E. INVESTIGATION FEE (Note II.E.)
Each
$896.00
F.  
Each
$896.00
G. OUTDOOR RESTAURANT SEATING & MERCHANDISE DISPLAY (Note II.G.)
Each
$367.00
Permanent – City Right-of-Way Review Fee (Note II.A.1.)
Scaffolding/Soil Test and Borings/Sewer or Storm Drain Video Inspection/Traffic Control 
ENCROACHMENT PERMIT WORK IN CONJUNCTION WITH SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT 
(Note II.F.)
(Note II.B.2)
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 10.2
207 of 311

--- page 208 ---
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
NOTES:
II. ENCROACHMENT PERMITS
A.
New Installation Permit
1. Permanent – City Right-of-Way Review Fee
B. 
 Temporary Permit
1.
2.
C.
Dock Permit
1. New Installation and Repair or Replacement
2.
D. Utility Permit
1.
2.
3.
E. Investigation Fees
1.
2.
F. Encroachment Permit Work in Conjunction with Site Development Permit
1.
2.
G. Outdoor Restaurant Seating & Merchandise Display
Work without an encroachment permit will result in an investigation fee. Whenever any work, for which an encroachment permit is required by the San Mateo 
Municipal Code, has commenced without first obtaining said permit, a special investigation shall be completed.  An investigation fee shall be charged and paid 
whether or not a permit is subsequently issued.  The fee must however be paid and the required standard insurance obtained before a permit may be issued for 
such work.
The investigation fee shall be equal to the amount of the encroachment permit fee as shown on the City of San Mateo Public Works Fee Schedule. The payment 
of such investigation fee shall not exempt any person from compliance with all provisions of the San Mateo Municipal Code, nor from any penalty prescribed by 
law.
All encroachment permits required as a result of any request for service, including conditions applied to Planning items (variances, site plan & architectural reviews, 
planned community developments, and others) shall be charged all appropriate fees as shown above.
Note: There will be no fee for encroachment permits to repair sidewalk tripping hazards as determined by City inspection staff.  A traffic control plan is required for all 
work  as specified in the Encroachment Permit Application packet.
In order to obtain an encroachment permit, a standard Encroachment Permit Application must be filled out by the owner of the property or the contractor performing the 
work. In addition to the required fee and application, all aspects of Chapter 17 of the San Mateo Municipal Code must be adhered to. The applicant must post financial 
security equal to the value of the improvements to secure performance. Labor and materials must also be secured at one-half the value of the improvements. Current 
standard insurance must be on file with the City. Insurance requirements include public liability and property damage insurance, naming the City as an additional insured. 
Evidence of insurance may include a certificate and/or endorsement.
Any improvements not included elsewhere in this section shall be charged the minimum fee shown above.  If a project account has been funded by the applicant, his 
representative or a developer responsible for the construction of the project, will be charged the minimum fee.  A portion of the fee will be used to fund the 
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program (STOPPP) in accordance with Chapter 7.39 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. The fee and deposit are waived for City 
projects.
Request to place or replace structures such as fences, retaining walls, pilasters, stairs, etc. in the public right-of-way (ROW) when an exception is made by the 
Director of Public Works or designee for such structure. This fee will cover field visit to the site, engineering review of the existing or proposed structure, and 
administrative time to prepare a license agreement. 
When work that requires an encroachment permit is done in conjunction with a Site Development Permit or Project Account, the encroachment permit fee will be 
the same as a New Installation.  The total deposit will then cover fees for required engineering and inspection services by the City related to the encroachment 
and site development permits. The engineering and inspection fees for both the encroachment permit and the site development permit will be charged at an 
hourly rate of $130 per hour.
The fees charged plus the required deposit must be paid and standard insurance must be on file prior to issuance of any encroachment permit. The deposit will be 
held in a project account and any balance remaining after completion of the project will be refunded. Charges in excess of the deposit will be billed and must be 
paid before sign-off by the City that the work related to encroachment and site development permit is complete.
Utility projects considered large, shall place a minimum deposit for review and inspection in a project account. Any funds remaining in the account will be 
refunded after project completion. Projects considered large are as follows:  100 linear feet or more of trenching, projects requiring traffic or pedestrian detours 
on collector and/or arterials roadways, and as determined by the Director of Public Works or designee.
Utility company permit fees will be waived if the utility relocation work is the result of a City project.  Public Utility Commission Rule 20-A projects will also 
result in waiver of encroachment permit fees.
Dumpsters/Containers/Pods:  A standard encroachment permit, including necessary insurance, will be required for the placement of a dumpster, container, or pod 
in the public right-of-way. 
Scaffolding, soil tests, sewer video inspections, etc.: An encroachment permit may be issued upon completion of an encroachment permit application and proof of 
current standard insurance on file with the City. A fee and security deposit must be posted to insure removal of the temporary encroachment and cover any repair 
costs due to damage that may occur.
The Applicant shall pay a fee and a minimum deposit to cover department reviews and inspections. Any funds remaining in the account will be refunded after 
project completion.
Annual Fee: Dock owners shall pay an annual fee to cover the costs of program administration and periodic inspections.
Utility companies shall pay a permit processing fee of $381.00.  For each job in the City right-of-way, the utility company shall obtain an encroachment permit, pay an utility 
encroachment permit fee of $190.00 and provide the City with current standard insurance.  A portion of the base fee will be used to fund the Stormwater Pollution Prevention 
Program (STOPPP). Utility encroachment permits shall be obtained prior to any utility work in the City right-of-way.
Request to place outdoor restaurant seating and/or merchandise display in the public right-of-way.  Installations must provide ADA access and minimum pedestrian 
travel way of three (3) feet.
Page 10.3
208 of 311

--- page 209 ---
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
III. STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION CONSTRUCTION PERMITS
A. PERMIT FEE - non-refundable
Each
No Fee
Each
$560.00
Each
$560.00
B. EROSION CONTROL MINIMUM COMPLIANCE
Minimum Deposit
$377.00
NOTES:
III. STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION CONSTRUCTION PERMITS
Type III and IV Projects -  Refundable Deposit
(See Stormwater Pollution Prevention Construction Permit Notes)
In order to obtain a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program (STOPPP) Construction permit per the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, an applicant (i.e., property 
owner or contractor performing the work) must  pay the appropriate permit fee. Type I Projects are not required to pay the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program 
Construction Permit fee, but are still required to comply with Construction Best Management Practices (BMP) as outlined in the permit card. Storm drain polluters 
may be liable for fines up to $10,000 per day. A permittee under the STOPPP Construction permit is required to adhere to all aspects of Chapter 7.39 of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code.  If the work being done involves an encroachment permit, a separate  STOPPP permit is not required since the encroachment permit includes it. 
Type I Projects
Type I Projects are small projects not in the public right-of-way that are generally under 20 cubic yards of soil disturbance (i.e. most residential driveways).  If the work 
being done involves an encroachment permit, a separate STOPPP permit is not required since the encroachment permit includes it. 
Type II Projects
Type II Projects are medium projects generally over 20 cubic yards of soil disturbance, such as installation/removal of swimming pools, demolition/installation of garages, 
home additions, retaining walls, and decks, that do not require a planning application and are reviewed through the building permit process (excluding residential 
driveways not in the public right-of-way). The fee for this type of project is listed above. No deposit is required.
Type III Projects
Type III Projects are medium sized projects over 20 cubic yards of soil disturbance, such as home additions, new single family homes, that require a planning application. 
The fee for a Type III Project is listed above. Type III projects require a minimum refundable deposit for erosion control plan compliance. The minimum deposit is 
required at plan submittal to guarantee to the City that the permitted will comply with the terms and conditions of the permit. At the time of permit issuance, additional 
funds may be required to be added to the deposit if the deposit balance is less than estimated inspection fees, as determined by the City. Any portion not expended by the 
City in its engineering review and inspection is refundable. Time billed at $130.00 per hour. Expenses not covered by the deposit will be billed monthly. Bills to be paid in 
accordance with regular City billing processes. Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off of conditions. The deposit will be refunded if permittee has met all 
requirement in the erosion plan and the City has not been required to perform work on permitee’s behalf.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
(See Stormwater Pollution Prevention Construction Permit Notes)
Type I Projects
Type II Projects
Type III and IV Projects
(See Stormwater Pollution Prevention Construction Permit Notes for description of types of projects)
PLUS
Type IV Projects
Type IV Projects are large sized projects, 1 acre or greater. Type IV Projects require a General Permit issued by the State Water Resources Control Board in addition to the 
City’s STOPPP Construction Permit. The STOPPP Construction Permit fee is listed above. Type IV projects required a minimum refundable deposit for erosion control 
plan compliance. The minimum deposit is required at plan submittal for additional plan checking and inspection. At the time of permit issuance, additional funds may be 
required to be added to the deposit if the deposit balance is less than estimated inspection fees, as determined by the City. Any portion not expended by the City in its 
engineering review and inspection is refundable. Time billed at $130.00 per hour. Expenses not covered by the deposit will be billed monthly. Bills to be paid in 
accordance with regular City billing processes. Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off of conditions. The deposit will be refunded if permittee has complied 
with the submitted erosion plan and the City has not been required to perform work on permitee’s behalf. 
Page 10.4
209 of 311

--- page 210 ---
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
IV. SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMITS (See SMMC 23.40)
A. PROCESSING FEE - non-refundable
Each
$39.00
PLUS
B. ENGINEERING/INSPECTION FEE (deposits) * *
Minimum Deposit
$2,500.00
185 - 1,000 cubic yards
Deposit
$2,500.00
+ Each Add'l Cubic
 Yard Over 185
$3.90
1,001 - 10,000 cubic yards
Deposit
$5,700.00
+ Each Add'l Cubic 
Yard Over 1,000
$0.30
over 10,000 cubic yards
Deposit
$8,400.00
+ Each Add'l Cubic 
Yard Over 10,000
$0.25
* *
V.
FINAL MAP-PLAN CHECK/ PROCESSING
A. PARCEL MAPS
Per Map
$2,410.00
B. SUBDIVISIONS
Per Map
$2,727.00
C. LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT/MERGERS (by deed)
Each
$1,579.00
D. CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE
Each
$526.00
E. MAP COPY FEE
Per Page
$22.00
F. ABANDONMENT EASEMENT / RIGHT-OF-WAY
Hourly
$130.00
Minimum Deposit
$2,181.00
VI. REPAIR TO CITY PROPERTY
A. LABOR
Hour
$130.00
Hour O/T
$196.00
B. CONTRACTOR
Hour
Cost + 5%
C. MATERIAL & EQUIPMENT
Each
Cost + 5%
D. INSPECTION/SURVEY/ ENGINEERING
Hour
$130.00
*
VII. SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE (Collected by Bldg. Div. w/building permit)
A. RESIDENTIAL
1. Single-family dwelling
Per Connection
$2,650.00
2. Multi-family dwelling
a. Studio, & 1 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$1,325.00
b. 2 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$1,991.00
c. 3 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$2,650.00
3. Hotels or motels
Per Room/Apt
$1,325.00
4. Board or lodging houses
Per Bedroom
$1,325.00
B. NON-RESIDENTIAL
1. Churches
Per Connection
$2,650.00
2. Golf courses
Per Connection
$2,650.00
3. Hospitals
Per Fixture Unit
$130.00
4. Lodges and clubs
Per Fixture Unit
$130.00
5. Rest, residential care & convalescent homes
Per Fixture Unit
$130.00
6. Schools
Per Fixture Unit
$130.00
C. COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL
Per Fixture Unit
$130.00
NOTES:
VII. SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE  (Collected by Bldg. Div. w/building permit)
1.
2.
3.
4.
a.
b.
c.
The minimum deposits listed are required at plan submittal for plan checking and inspection. At  the time of permit issuance, additional funds may be required to be 
added to the deposit if the deposit balance is less than estimated inspection fees, as determined by the City. Any portion not expended by the City in its engineering 
review and inspection is refundable. Time will be billed at $130 per hour. Expenses not covered by the deposit will be billed monthly. Bills to be paid in  accordance 
with regular City billing processes. Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off of conditions.
The remodeled or new structure will only be assessed a charge for fixture units in excess of those existing, based on the per fixture units identified on the City’s 
sewer connection charge worksheet.
The new plans will be used to determine the number of fixture units in excess of those shown on the demolition plans.
The demolition plans will be used to determine the number of existing fixture units.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
In the case of Commercial and Industrial users, where the building has been previously occupied and the interior is being demolished or remodeled, the sewer 
connection charge will be computed as follows:
Commercial and Industrial users are also charged at the per fixture unit rate identified on the City’s sewer connection charge worksheet. If the commercial or 
industrial user is constructing a new building the minimum charge is assessed at the time a building permit is issued. The charge is based on the number of fixture 
units as determined based on the Uniform Plumbing Code and the City worksheet. If tenant improvements occur after the initial charge is assessed and paid, the 
sewer connection charge at that point will depend on how many fixture units were actually installed as part of the new building permit. New fixture units will be 
charged at the per fixture rate identified on the City’s sewer connection charge worksheet.
Non-Residential hospitals, lodges and clubs, rest, residential care, convalescent homes, and schools are charged at the per fixture unit rate identified on the City’s 
sewer connection charge worksheet.
The assessment of the sewer connection charge is based on the Uniform Plumbing Code in conjunction with the plumbing fixtures identified on the City’s sewer 
connection charge worksheet. The City charges a minimum connection charge for Residential, Churches and Golf Courses. This minimum charge is based on an 
average number of fixture units per dwelling unit or entity.
Equipment rate based on the most recent State "Labor Surcharge and Equipment Rental Rates" book 
published by Caltrans Publications.
Page 10.5
210 of 311

--- page 211 ---
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
VIII. ENVIRONMENTAL  COMPLIANCE FEES
A. CLASS A WASTE DISCHARGE PERMIT ANNUAL FEE
Each
$499.00
B. CLASS B WASTE DISCHARGE PERMIT ANNUAL FEE
Each
$345.00
C. STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERMIT ANNUAL FEE
Each
$261.00
D. POLLUTION PREVENTION INSPECTION FEE
Per Hour
$146.00
E. INSPECTION/INVESTIGATION FEE
Per Hour
$130.00
Per Hour OT
$195.00
F. SAMPLING FEE
Per Hour
$130.00
Per Hour OT
$195.00
G. ANALYTICAL SERVICES FEE
Each
Cost
H. HYDRAULIC LOADING CHARGE
Per 100 Cu. Ft.
Basic Sewer Service 
Charge rate
I.
DEFICIENCY RESULTING IN “SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE”
Each
$431.00
J. FAILURE TO CONDUCT SELF-MONITORING
Per Hour
$130.00
K.
Each
$268.00
L. ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP/ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCE
1. Labor
Per Hour
$130.00
Per Hour OT
$195.00
2. Material And Equipment
Each
Cost
3. Contract Services
Each
Cost
M. APPEAL - of decision to issue permit, levy fees, or finding of noncompliance
$260.00
N.
Each Case
$2,622.00
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH OFFICIAL NOTICE TO CORRECT VIOLATION
VIOLATIONS REQUIRING INSPECTION WARRANT, OR COMMENCEMENT OF CIVIL 
LITIGATION PROCEEDINGS
Page 10.6
211 of 311

--- page 212 ---
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
NOTES:
VIII. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE FEES
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.
H.
I.
J.
K.
L.
M.
N.
Stormwater Management Permit. A property that is required to install, operate, and maintain stormwater treatment facilities, or maintain parking lots, storm drain 
inlets, or other facilities for stormwater pollution prevention as specified in project conditions, shall obtain a Stormwater Management (SWM) permit from the 
Director of Public Works. (7.39.235). Cost based on 2 hours admin and inspection time per year at standard labor rate.
Failure to Comply with Official Notice to Correct Violation. When an authorized enforcement official finds that a user has violated or is violating this Chapter, or a 
permit or order issued hereunder, the official may serve upon said user a Notice of Violation which enumerates the violations found, and orders compliance by a date 
certain. (7.38.460, 7.39.270); any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter is a threat to the public health, safety and 
welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance. (7.38.470, 7.39.280)
Failure to Conduct Self-monitoring. The Director may require that the user conduct a sampling and analysis program of the user’s waste or stormwater discharge of a 
frequency and type required by the Director to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this Chapter. (7.38.360, 7.39.160).
Deficiency Resulting in “Significant Noncompliance”. At least annually, the Director shall provide public notice in the largest local daily newspaper a list of those 
significant industrial users that, during the previous twelve (12) months, were found in significant noncompliance, as defined in the pretreatment regulations and this 
Chapter. (7.38.420). Cost based on administrative time and cost of publication for 3 days in San Mateo County Times.
The following fees are intended to help recover the cost of implementation and enforcement of SMMC Chapter 7.38
Hydraulic Loading Charge. The Director may impose upon the user a hydraulic loading charge for discharge of groundwater or other waters in cases where 
conventional sewer service charges applied by the City or District do not account for said flows or uses. User discharges which exceed 10,000 gallons per batch 
discharge or users undertaking long term discharges of groundwater to the sanitary sewer shall be metered and levied a hydraulic loading charge based upon the basic 
sewer service charge rate. (7.38.260)
Analytical Services Fee. Cost based in service provider cost of service.
Pollution Prevention Inspection Fee. The Director is authorized to conduct all inspection, surveillance, and monitoring procedures necessary to assure compliance 
with this Chapter. The Director may enter without unreasonable delay, during facility hours of operation, any premises of any user in which a potential pollutant 
discharge source exists or in which facility discharge and materials and waste records are kept. Records shall be made available to the Director for inspection and 
copying. Reasonable times for inspection and sampling may include times that are unannounced. (7.38.350, 7.39.140) Cost based on 0.5- hour admin and inspection 
time per year at standard labor rate.
Violations Requiring Inspection Warrant or Commencement of Civil Litigation Proceedings. In the event that the user refuses the Director entry to the premises, 
inspection may be made only upon the issuance of a search warrant by a duly authorized magistrate. In the event that the user refuses entry after the request has been 
made, the Director is hereby empowered to seek assistance from the court in obtaining such entry; Any person who has violated or continues to violate the provisions 
of this Chapter or any order or permit issued hereunder, shall be subject to the imposition of civil penalties pursuant to Chapter 1.11 of this Code. (7.38.350, 
7.39.140, 7.38.410, 7.39.200, 7.38.480, 7.39.290)
Appeal of Decision to Issue Permit, Levy fees, or Finding of Noncompliance. Any person affected by any decision, action or determination, including administrative 
remedies, made in interpreting or implementing the provisions of this Chapter may appeal therefrom to the City of San Mateo Public Works Commission. (7.39.200). 
Fee is refunded if appellant prevails.
Environmental Cleanup/Abatement of Public Nuisance. City may impose a charge upon the user to reimburse the City or District for the cost of cleaning and/or 
repair of City facilities, including mitigation of waste discharge to the storm drainage system; any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the 
provisions of this Chapter is a threat to the public health, safety and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance., and may be summarily abated and/or restored 
by the City. The cost of such abatement and restoration shall be borne by the owner of the property. (7.38.180, 7.38.470, 7.39.280).
Class B Discharge Permit. A Class B permit shall be issued, at the discretion of the Director, to any user who is not a significant industrial user, yet requires periodic 
inspection and/or monitoring to verify compliance with this Chapter. A Class B permit may be required for discharge of industrial waste from stationary sources, 
trucked wastes, contaminated groundwater, and other industrial wastes approved by the Director for discharge to the sanitary sewer. (7.38.260). Cost based on 1.5 
hours admin and inspection time per year at standard labor rate.
Class A Discharge Permit. A Class A permit shall be issued to all significant industrial users (SIU). Class A permit holders are regulated in accordance with the 
requirements specified in the pretreatment regulations, 40 CFR Part 403 and 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471, as amended, and this Chapter. 
(7.38.260) Cost based on 4 hours admin and inspection time per year at standard labor rate.
Inspection/Investigation Fee. Applies to inspection and investigation activities not covered in D. or K. Cost based on standard labor rate.
Sampling Fee. The Director shall have the right to establish on any property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling or metering operations. During all 
inspections as provided herein, the official may take any samples deemed necessary to aid in the pursuit of the inquiry or in the recording of activities on the  site. 
(7.38.350, 7.39.140). Cost based standard labor rate.
Page 10.7
212 of 311

--- page 213 ---
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
IX. DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES (subject to annual review)
A. WWTP PHASE II EXPANSION FEE 
Gallon/ADF
$2.34
B. TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE 
1. Residential
a. Single-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$4,760.95
b. Multi-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$2,922.38
2. Commercial and Industrial
a. Retail
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$8,187.63
b. Office
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$4,370.10
c. Industrial
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$2,847.13
C. SOUTH TRUNK AREA SEWER IMPROVEMENT FEE
1. Single-family dwelling
Per Dwelling Unit
$5,009.00
2. Multi-family dwelling, 1 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$2,504.00
3. Multi-family dwelling, 2 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$3,756.00
4. Multi-family dwelling, 3 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$5,009.00
5. Hotels or motels
Per Room
$2,504.00
6. Non-residential
Per Fixture Unit
$250.00
D.
Per Space
$26,311.00
X. NEWSRACK ORDINANCE VIOLATION
A. ABATEMENT FEE
failure to abate violation for Chapter 17.12 of the S.M.M.C.
Per Violation
$66.00
B. APPEAL OF ABATEMENT ORDER FEE 
(Fee refunded if appellant prevails).
Per Violation
$129.00
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Developer Impact Fee to pay for the increase of 1.5 Million Gallons a Day of treatment capacity for 
biological demand and solids in the Waste Water Treatment Plant. This increase is needed to 
accommodate the loading from future development and connections.
CENTRAL PARKING IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT PER SPACE IN-LIEU FEE
Page 10.8
213 of 311

--- page 214 ---
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
XI. MISCELLANEOUS FEES
A. PLANS AND SPECS
Per Set
Varies at cost
B. ENGINEERING PHOTOCOPIES - large sizes
24" x 36"
Per Print
$3.70
36" x no. of feet
Per Print
$3.70
C. PHOTOCOPIES
8.5" x 11"
Per Copy
$0.15
8.5" x 14"
Per Copy
$0.20
11" x 17"
Per Copy
$0.30
D. PLOT COPY FEE – subdivision / parcel map
24" x 36"
Per Copy
$40.00
E. HANG BANNER
Per Request
$258.00
+ certificate of insurance
F. STREET LIGHT BANNER
Per Pole/ Per Banner
$65.00
G. CURB PAINTING:
Red Tipping
Per Request
$168.00
Initial installation (covers two years)
Maintenance Fee (covers two years) is 1/2 of initial installation fee.
Blue Curb (Disabled)
 Per Request 
$210.00
Yellow Curb (Loading Zone) 
Per Request
$210.00
White Curb (Passenger Loading) 
Per Request
$210.00
Green Curb (Limited-Time) 
Per Request
$210.00
Non-Critical Red Zones
Per Request
$210.00
H.
Each
$427.00
I. WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILTIES PERMIT
1. Minor and Major Permits
Min Deposit Per Location 
$7,500.00
2. Section 6409 Permit 
Min Deposit Per Location
$4,000.00
J.
Each
$5,000.00
(Note: Nonprofit organizations may contract with a vendor of their choice to install their banners but an 
encroachment permit is required.)
ADDRESS ASSIGNMENT FEE to be charged when assignment is not required as a condition of 
construction; charge for non-essential address changes only.
Request to place a new facility or substantial modification of an existing facility in the public ROW.  
This minimum deposit listed is required at the pre-application phase. The deposit will cover field 
visits, engineering review of the existing or proposed facilities, inspections during construction, the 
cost of hiring an independent consultant with specialized or expert knowledge in connection with 
wireless facilities, including, but not limited to:  permit application completeness and/or accuracy, 
compliance with RF emissions, gap in services, alternative sites analysis, inspection during 
construction, and administrative time to process the permit application. At the time of permit 
issuance, additional funds may be required to be added to the deposit if the deposit balance is less 
than estimated, as determined by the City.  Any portion not expended by the City is refundable.  
Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off.
Request to modify an existing facility in the public ROW.  If modifications are deemed substantial, 
applicant shall apply for a Minor or Major Permit.  This minimum deposit listed is required at the pre-
application phase and will cover field visits, engineering review of the existing or proposed facilities, 
inspections during construction, the cost of hiring an independent consultant with specialized or 
expert knowledge in connection with wireless facilities, including, but not limited to: permit 
application completeness and/or accuracy, compliance with RF emissions, gap in services, alternative 
sites analysis, inspections during construction, and administrative time to process the permit 
application. At the time of permit issuance, additional funds may be required to be added to the 
deposit if the deposit balance is less than estimated, as determined by the City.  Any portion not 
expended by the City is refundable.  Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off.
SHARED MOBILITY PERMIT APPLICATION FEE
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 10.9
214 of 311

--- page 215 ---
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
SPECIAL EVENT APPLICATION FEES
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
SPECIAL EVENT FEES FOR SERVICE
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
UNIT
FEE
I. USE FEES -
PUBLIC STREETS AND RIGHT OF WAYS
Daily Use Fees:
Per Day
$100.00
Per Day
$200.00
Television Series/Movies/Pilot and Feature Films
Per Day
$300.00
CIVIC FACILITIES, PARKS, SPECIAL USE AREAS (for all uses)
Per Hour
$50.00
II. SUPPORT SERVICES FEES
III. DEPOSIT
All businesses shall submit a refundable deposit in the amount of $1,000.00 at the time fees are due and payable to cover any unanticipated support services 
fees, property damage repair, etc.
Videos/Travel/Documentary/Still Photography/Industrial Commercials
Regular rates for personnel who may be required to prepare specialized logistic plans in support of the event
Actual costs for consumable supplies, e.g. parking meter signs, garbage bags, etc., used in support of the event
Actual cost for specialized services contracted by the City that are required to support the event
$230 - For High Impact events sponsored by non-profits. A high impact event means a special event meeting two or more of the following criteria: 1) Being held for 
the first time; 2) expected to draw more than 500 participants; 3) held on a recurring basis; 4) requiring the support of 2 or more city departments; 5) following a 
route with a   different start and finish; 6) requiring a street closure; or 7) requiring interagency coordination.
$500 – For Low Impact events sponsored by a commercial or for profit business. A low impact event means any event other than a high impact event.
$1,000 – For High Impact events sponsored by a commercial or for profit business. See above for definition of a High Impact event.
Depending on the nature of the special event, applicable fees may include some or all of the following:
Filming fees shall apply to commercial businesses desiring to film on public streets, right of ways or within city owned facilities, including parks, civic facilities and 
buildings or special use areas, such as Poplar Creek Golf Course.  Prior to the granting of a permit, all businesses shall comply with all applicable policies and procedures, 
including, but not limited to, evidence of insurance, permits and licenses, and appropriate hold harmless language.
Any filming use that requires any of the following, shall be billed in accordance with the guidelines outlined within the Special Community Events Permit Fee 
section, Category C designation; i.e. for-profit businesses or non-tax exempt organizations:
Fees for use of City equipment, consumable supplies, preparation of specialized logistic plans, specialized contracted services and on-duty personnel will be 
billed at cost, plus a 25% administrative overhead fee.
Fees for use of overtime personnel shall be calculated at the top step prevailing overtime rate for the classification(s) utilized plus a 25% administrative 
SPECIAL COMMUNITY EVENTS PERMIT
COMMERCIAL FILMING FEES
FEE CATEGORY
Overtime rates for personnel not regularly on duty who are required to work the event
Fair market value charges for utilization of City equipment and/or vehicles used in support of the event
No Fee-For events open to the general public, sponsored by a non-profit organization that are not for fundraising purposes, where no registration or admission fee is 
charged, no donations or contributions are solicited or where no money exchanges hands.
$100 - For Low Impact events sponsored by a non-profit. A low impact event means any event other than a high impact event.
Page 10.10
215 of 311

--- page 216 ---
Page 11.1 
Chapter 3.64 
FEES 
Sections: 
3.64.010 
Fees. 
3.64.020 
Penalties & Interest 
3.64.030 
Fees for Code Enforcement 
3.64.010 - FEES.  
Prior to submittal of the annual budget, the City Manager shall submit to the City Council the fees proposed 
for the next fiscal year. The prior year’s fees shall continue if the City Manager does not submit new 
proposed fees. If the proposed fees do not represent a percentage increase exceeding the percentage 
increase for the preceding twelve (12) month period as shown by the San Francisco Bay Area Consumer 
Price Index of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, United States Department of Labor, under the heading All 
Items, or any index substituted by the Department of Labor therefor, the proposed fees shall become 
effective on the following July 1, unless a different date is set forth in the submission, provided however that 
the Council may amend the fees before the effective date. If the proposed fees represent a percentage 
increase exceeding the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index, they must be approved by the 
Council before becoming effective. Notwithstanding the above, the Council may amend any fee at any time. 
(Ord. 1994-12 § 1, 1994; Ord. 1989-8 § 1, 1989; Ord. 1986-26 § 1, 1986). 
3.64.020 - PENALTIES AND INTEREST.  
Any fee imposed by this chapter shall be due and payable within thirty days after the bill is mailed by the 
City. The fees shall be delinquent if not paid within said thirty days. Any person who fails to remit any fee 
within the time required shall pay a penalty of ten percent of the amount due, per month to a maximum of 
three months, plus interest at the rate of 1-1/2 percent per month, or fraction thereof, computed from the 
delinquent date of the fee until and including the date of payment. (Ord. 1989-8 § 1, 1989). 
3.64.030 - FEES FOR CODE ENFORCEMENT. 
(a)
Nuisances. The Council is authorized to adopt fees for administrative costs incurred in the
enforcement of Title 7. No fee shall be charged if a property owner or agent abates the nuisance or
violation within thirty (30) days after first notification of the violation is mailed by the City.
(b)
Other Violations. The City shall be authorized to adopt fees for costs incurred in the enforcement of
Municipal Code violations which result in a requirement for a planning application or building permit, if such
application is made or permit applied for more than thirty days after notification of the violation is mailed.
(Ord. 1990-5 § 4, 1990; Ord. 1989-8 § 1, 1989).
216 of 311

--- page 217 ---
UNIT
FEE
I.
A. WWTP PHASE II EXPANSION FEE
Gallon/ADF
$2.34
Developer Impact Fee to pay for the increase of 1.5 Million Gallons a Day 
of treatment capacity for biological demand and solids in the Waste Water 
Treatment Plant. This increase is needed to accommodate the loading from 
future development and connections.
B. TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE
1. Residential
a. Single-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$4,760.95
b. Multi-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$2,922.38
2. Commercial and Industrial
a. Retail
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$8,187.63
b. Office
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$4,370.10
c. Industrial
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$2,847.13
C. SOUTH TRUNK AREA SEWER IMPROVEMENT FEE
1. Single-family dwelling
$5,009.00
2. Multi-family dwelling, 1 bedroom
$2,504.00
3. Multi-family dwelling, 2 bedroom
$3,756.00
4. Multi-family dwelling, 3 bedroom
$5,009.00
5. Hotels or motels
$2,504.00
6. Non-residential
$250.00
D.
Per Space
$26,311.00
II.
Each
0.5% of valuation
III.
Per Tree
$475.00
IV.
Per Residential Unit Type:
A.
Single Family
$26,973.00
Multi-family 2-4 Units
$16,906.00
Multi-family 5+ Units
$19,470.00
Mobile Homes
$18,995.00
V. CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE
Per Sq. Ft.
$1.08
Projects over 10,000 sq. ft. that are one or more of the following:
A. NEW COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT OF SUPERSTRUCTURE
B. ADDITION OF SQUARE FOOTAGE TO EXISTING COMMERCIAL
DEVELOPMENT
C. COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRING PLANNING
APPROVAL
VI. COMMERCIAL LINKAGE FEE
(City Council  adopted September 16, 2016 - effective November 16, 2016)
New commercial construction in excess of 5,000 sq. ft.
Exempts public uses such as hospitals, nonprofit and government facilities, 
churches, schools and child care centers.
A. HOTELS
Per Sq. Ft.
$10.79
B. RETAIL, RESTAURANTS, AND SERVICES
Per Sq. Ft.
$5.40
C. OFFICE, RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT USES, AND MEDICAL
Per Sq. Ft.
$26.99
PARK AND LANDSCAPE RESOURCES
PARK AND LANDSCAPE RESOURCES
PARK IN-LIEU FEE / PARK IMPACT FEE FOR RESIDENTIAL 
PLANNING APPLICATION PROJECTS INVOLVING PARCEL MAPS, 
SUBDIVISION AND OTHER MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL 
Tree Replacement Cost (24" Box Tree)
ART IN PUBLIC PLACE FEE
The fee is applicable to commercial and multi-family residential projects 
IMPACT, IN-LIEU, AND LINKAGE FEES
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES (subject to annual review)
CENTRAL PARKING IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT PER SPACE IN-
LIEU FEE
Page 12.1
217 of 311

--- page 218 ---
UNIT
FEE
IMPACT, IN-LIEU, AND LINKAGE FEES
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
VII.
A. In Lieu Fees for Fractional Units
1. Rental
0.1 Housing Unit
$25,962.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$51,924.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$77,887.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$103,849.00
2. Owner
0.1 Housing Unit
$22,478.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$44,956.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$67,434.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$89,912.00
B. In Lieu Fee for Projects Less than 11 Units
1. Rental
5 Unit Project
$129,811.00
6 Unit Project
$155,773.00
7 Unit Project
$181,735.00
8 Unit Project
$207,698.00
9 Unit Project
$233,660.00
10 Unit Project
$259,622.00
2. Owner
5 Unit Project
$112,390.00
6 Unit Project
$134,868.00
7 Unit Project
$157,346.00
8 Unit Project
$179,824.00
9 Unit Project
$202,302.00
10 Unit Project
$224,780.00
BELOW MARKET RATE HOUSING FEE
A fee in lieu of constructing affordable housing units onsite per Below Market Rate 
program:
Page 12.2
218 of 311

--- page 219 ---
UNIT
FEE
I. ELECTION DOCUMENT COPIES
Per Page
$0.10
II. PHOTOCOPIES
Per Page
$0.15
III. OUTSIDE SERVICES
Reproductions not performed by City (maps, photos, etc.).
Per Reproduction
Actual Costs
IV. CERTIFICATIONS
Each
$1.50
V. APPEALS to the City Council of a decision by the Planning
Commission, Community Relations Commission, or Public
Works Commission.
Each Appeal
$500.00
VI. INITIATIVE FILING FEE
Each
$200.00
CITY CLERK
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
219 of 311

--- page 220 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
I.
Valuation
$121.20 $124.95
Valuation
$121.20 $124.95
(for 1st $500) $5.38 $5.55 for each add'l $100 or 
fraction thereof to and including $2,000
Valuation
$202.00 $208.25
(for 1st $2,000) $26.35 $27.16 for each add'l $1,000 
or fraction thereof to and including $25,000
Valuation
$808.00 $832.99
for 1st $25,000) $21.01 $21.66 for each add'l $1,000 
or fraction thereof to and including $50,000
Valuation
$1,333.20 $1,374.43
(for 1st $50,000) $13.74 $14.16 for each add'l $1,000 
or fraction thereof to and including $100,000
Valuation
$2020.00 $2082.48
(for 1st $100,000) $11.11 $11.45 for each add'l 
$1,000 or fraction thereof to and including $500,000
Valuation
$6,464.00 $6,663.92
(for 1st $500,000) $9.37 $9.66 for each add'l $1,000 
or fraction thereof to and including $1,000,000
Valuation
$11,150.40 $11,495.26
(for 1st $1,000,000)  $8.70 $8.97 for each add'l 
$1,000 or fraction thereof to and including 
$2,000,000
Valuation
$19,582.57 $20,466.57
(for 1st $2,000,000)  $1.34 $1.46 for each add'l 
$1,000 or fraction thereof  to and including 
$4,000,000
Valuation
$22,688.65 $23,390.36
(for 1st $4,000,000)  $2.60 $2.68 for each add'l 
$1,000 or fraction thereof to and including 
$8,000,000
Valuation
$33,087.61 $34,110.94
(for 1st $8,000,000)  $2.31 $2.38 for each add'l 
$1,000 or fraction thereof to and including 
$16,000,000
Valuation
$51,540.73 $53,134.77
(for 1st $16,000,000) $1.34 $1.38 for each add'l 
$1,000 or fraction thereof to and including 
$32,000,000
Valuation
$72,952.74 $75,209.01
(for 1st $32,000,000) $2.04 $2.10 for each add'l 
$1,000 or fraction thereof to and including 
$64,000,000
Valuation
$138,226.23 $142,501.27
(for 1st $32,000,000) $1.02 $1.05 for each add'l 
$1,000 or fraction thereof
$1.00 - $500.00
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
BUILDING PLAN REVIEW FEES
$32,000,001 to $64,000,000 
$501.00 - $2,000.00
$2,001.00 - $25,000.00
$25,001.00 - $50,000.00
$50,001.00 - $100,000.00
$100,001.00 - $500,000.00
$500,001.00 - $1,000,000
$1,000,001 to $2,000,000 
$2,000,001 to $4,000,000 
$4,000,001 to $8,000,000 
$8,000,001 to $16,000,000 
$16,000,001 to $32,000,000 
$64,000,001 and Over
220 of 311

--- page 221 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
II.
Valuation
$117.01 $120.63
Valuation
$117.01 $120.63
(for 1st $500) $7.80 $8.04 for each add'l $100 or 
fraction thereof to and including $2,000
Valuation
$234.03 $241.27
(for 1st $2,000) $30.53 $31.47 for each add'l $1,000 
or fraction thereof to and including $25,000
Valuation
$936.12 $965.07
for 1st $25,000) $23.41 $24.13 for each add'l $1,000 
or fraction thereof to and including $50,000
Valuation
$1,521.18 $1,568.23
(for 1st $50,000) $16.38 $16.89 for each add'l $1,000 
or fraction thereof to and including $100,000
Valuation
$2,340.28 $2,412.66
(for 1st $100,000) $12.19 $12.57 for each add'l 
$1,000 or fraction thereof to and including $500,000
Valuation
$7,215.88 $7,439.05
(for 1st $500,000)  $10.84 $11.18 for each add'l 
$1,000 or fraction thereof to and including 
$1,000,000
Valuation
$12,637.54 $13,028.39
(for 1st $1,000,000)  $8.66 $8.93 for each add'l 
$1,000 or fraction thereof to and including 
$2,000,000
Valuation
$21,296.59 $21,955.25
(for 1st $2,000,000)  $1.52 $1.57 for each add'l 
$1,000 or fraction thereof  to and including 
$4,000,000
Valuation
$24,338.96 $25,091.71
(for 1st $4,000,000)  $3.05 $3.14 for each add'l 
$1,000 or fraction thereof to and including 
$8,000,000
Valuation
$36,508.44 $37,637.57
(for 1st $8,000,000)  $2.54 $2.62 for each add'l 
$1,000 or fraction thereof to and including 
$16,000,000
Valuation
$56,868.92 $58,627.75
(for 1st $16,000,000)  $1.08 $1.11 for each add'l 
$1,000 or fraction thereof to and including 
$32,000,000
Valuation
$74,140.22 $76,433.22
(for 1st $32,000,000)  $2.32 $2.39 for each add'l 
$1,000 or fraction thereof to and including 
$64,000,000
Valuation
$148,280.45 $152,866.44
(for 1st $32,000,000)  $1.15 $1.19 for each add'l 
$1,000 or fraction thereof
$4,000,001 to $8,000,000 
BUILDING PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES
$1.00 - $500.00
$501.00 - $2,000.00
$2,001.00 - $25,000.00
$25,001.00 - $50,000.00
$50,001.00 - $100,000.00
$100,001.00 - $500,000.00
$500,001.00 - $1,000,000
$1,000,001 to $2,000,000 
$2,000,001 to $4,000,000 
$8,000,001 to $16,000,000 
$16,000,001 to $32,000,000 
$32,000,001 to $64,000,000 
$64,000,001 and Over
NOTE: Building valuation shall be established pursuant to Section 23.06.120 of SMMC.
221 of 311

--- page 222 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
III.
A.
1.
Commercial and Multi-Residential
0 -10,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below $267.00
10,001-35,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below $400.00
35,001-75,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below $534.00
75,001-120,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below $668.00
Over 120,000 Square Feet
Per Hour
*See Note Below $267.00
2.
Single Family and Duplex Plan Review
0-10,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below $133.00
B.
Fee
0.33% 0.34% of Valuation
C.
Hourly Rate
Please refer to Building, Fire and Planning Hourly
Rate
D.
Fee / Actual Cost
 Initial plan 100% of Building Plan Check Fee, Fire
Support and Planning Support Fee; then Actual Cost
for all City Departments for additional identical and
mirror image plan checks where uniform codes have
not changed. 
E.
a. Park and Recreation Tax on Residential
Building Permits
 Per $100 Valuation on 
Building Permit App. 
$0.30
a. Consultants for specialized plan checking and
inspection services or to expedite plan checking
and inspection services
Fee is per Consultant's rate
b. Reimburse cost of staff or consultant time
spent in plan check or inspection services.  Park
Plan Check and Inspection Services on Building
Permits. Fee to be collected at time of Building
Permit application. After payment of fees,
Permittee may apply for an exemption for
projects having no Park Plan Check or
Inspection Requirements.
Building Valuation on 
Those Building Permits 
Whose Valuation is Over 
$5,000
0.07%
F.
Construction Valuation of  
All Projects
0.39% 0.40% of valuation
G.
Fee
 13 mills/$1,000 valuation
Residential (Minimum $0.50)
28 mills/$1,000 valuation
Non-Residential. (Minimum $0.50) 
H.
Fee
 $1/$25,000 valuation 
I.
Percentage
0.10% of valuation
J.
All Required Permits
 Minimum of 100% of all permit fees 
PLAN CHECK FEES FOR IDENTICAL AND 
MIRROR IMAGE PLANS
ADDITIONAL REQUIRED PLAN REVIEW & 
BUILDING PERMIT FEES
FIRE PLAN CHECK*
*These fees are collected on behalf of the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department. The current fee charged may be higher than those listed. Please
see the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department's fee schedule for current fees that will be collected by the City of San Mateo on behalf of San
Mateo Consolidated Fire Department at: smcfire.org/i-want-to
PLANNING SUPPORT FEE (PLAN 
CHECK/INSPECTION)
(Fee covers initial review and 2 resubmittals)  The 
fee will be charged for all projects which require a 
planning application, for new single-family homes 
and duplexes, and for any other permit application 
that requires review by the Planning  Division.
ADDITIONAL PLAN REVIEW FEES FOR 
PROJECTS REVIEWED 4TH REVIEW AND 
BEYOND
PARKS AND RECREATION FEES
1. Park and Landscape Resources
2. Development Project Review Fee
GENERAL PLAN MAINTENANCE FEE
STATE TAX
Strong motion instrumentation and seismic hazard 
mapping (Fee set by State of California).
BUILDING STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION 
SPECIAL REVOLVING FUND
TECHNOLOGY FEE
CONSTRUCTION WITHOUT A PERMIT
Penalty incurred when any construction is performed 
without a permit.
222 of 311

--- page 223 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
IV.
A.
Per Hr (Min. 2 Hours)
$156.00 $161.00
B.
Per Hr (Min. 1 Hour)
$156.00 $161.00
C.
Per Hr
(Min. 1/2 Hour)
$156.00 $161.00
D.
Per Reactivation
$358.00 $369.00
E.
Hourly Rate
$169.00 $174.00
F.
Each Page
$0.15 
G.
Each Page
$0.30 
H.
Per Hour
$161.00 $166.00
I.
Each
$637.00 $657.00
J.
Each
$637.00 $657.00
K.
$72.00 $74.00
L.
Each
$271.00 
L.
1. Single Family Dwellings/Duplex's
Each
$394.00 
2. Multi-Family, Mixed Use/Commercial
Each
Valuation Based
M.
1. Bathroom remodels consisting of 4 plumbing
Each Combination Permit
$539.00 $556.00
2. Kitchen remodels consisting of a maximum of:
1 plumbing fixture or 20 electrical
lights/switches/outlets maximum or a maximum
of 2 gas-fired appliances.
Each Combination Permit
$539.00 $556.00
N.
Each
$153.00 $158.00
O.
Each
$333.00 $343.00
P.
Each
$228.00 $235.00
Q.
Each
$410.00 $423.00
R.
Each
$333.00 $343.00
S.
Each
$307.00 $316.00
T.
Each
$2,734.00 $2,819.00
U.
Each
$1,237.00 $1,275.00
V.
Each
$151.00 $156.00
PLAN REVIEW REQUIRED BY CHANGES, 
ADDITIONS OR REVISIONS TO APPROVED 
PLANS, OR MORE THAN TWO RECHECKS
MISC. INSPECTIONS AND FEES
Applicable to building, plumbing, electrical and 
mechanical permits.
INSPECTIONS OUTSIDE OF NORMAL 
BUINESS HOURS 
REINSPECTION FEE
COMBINATION BUILDING, PLUMBING,
ELECTRICAL, AND MECHANICAL PERMITS
FOR MINOR RESIDENTIAL REMODELS:
REACTIVIATION FEE FOR EXPIRED PERMITS 
(Use 50% of original permit fee if permit fee is less 
than the reactivation fee)
APPLICATION FOR DEMOLITION OF 
RESIDENTIAL UNITS WHICH BEEN 
DECLARED A PUBLIC NUISANCE OR WHICH 
ARE BEING DEMOLISHED ON APPROVAL OF 
THE BUILDING OFFICIAL UNDER SECTION 
COST OF BLACK AND WHITE COPIES
COST OF COLOR COPIES
BUILDING/PROPERTY RESEARCH AND 
INQUIRY FEE (1st hour is free)
HARDSHIP WAIVER FOR DISABLED ACCESS 
REQUIREMENTS
RESEARCH RE: ALTERNATE MATERIALS 
AND CODE INTERPRETATIONS REQUIRING 
CONSULTATION WITH OUTSIDE AGENCIES
PERMITS FOR SMALL ANIMAL & FOWL
DRIVEWAY REPLACEMENT
(Please refer to Public Works Section for STOPPP 
Permit & Deposit Fee)
RE-ROOF'S
WINDOW REPLACEMENTS FOR SINGLE 
FAMILY AND DUPLEX (same location, same size, 
5 maximum)
WINDOW REPLACEMENTS FOR SINGLE 
FAMILY AND DUPLEX (same location, same size, 
more than 5)
REPIPE FOR WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS FOR 
SFR AND DUPLEX
CALIFORNIA'S EARTHQUAKE BRACE AND 
BOLT EARTHQUAKE RETROFIT PROGRAM
ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS FOR SFR AND 
DUPLEX
ELECTRICAL REWIRING FOR SFR AND 
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
HVAC INSTALLATIONS (Replacement, 
Relocations and new Installations for SFR and 
Duplex)
223 of 311

--- page 224 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
IV.
W.
1. Single Family Dwellings
Each Combination Permit
$450.00 
2. Multi-family Buildings
Up to 15 kW 
Each
$450.00 
16 kW and up
Each
$450.00 
+ $15.00 for each additional kW
3. Commercial Buildings
Up to 50 kW
Each
$1,000.00 
51 kW to 250 kW
Each
$1,000.00 
+ $7.00 for each additional kW up to 250 kW
251 kW and up
Each
$2,400.00 
+ $5.00 for each additional kW over 250 kW
X.
1. Single Family Dwellings
Each Combination Permit
$450.00 
2. Multi-family Buildings
Up to 15 kW 
Each
$450.00 
16 kW and up
Each
$450.00 
+ $15.00 for each additional kW
3. Commercial Buildings
Up to 30 kWth
Each
$1,000.00 
31 kWth to 260 kWth
Each
$1,000.00 
+ $7.00 for each additional kWth up to 260 kWth
261 kWth and up
Each
$2,610.00 
+ $5.00 for each additional kWth over 260 kWth
Y.
1. Single Family Dwellings & Duplexes
Each
$190.00 $196.00
2. Multi-Family/Commercial (Level I/II)
1-3 Stations
Each
$465.00 $479.00
4-6 Stations
Each
$622.00 $641.00
7+ Stations
Each
$899.00 $927.00
Multi-Family/Commercial (Level III)
1-3 Stations
Each
$581.00 $599.00
4-6 Stations
Each
$778.00 $802.00
7+ Stations
Each
$1,373.00 $1,415.00
SOLAR THERMAL SYSTEMS (Fee set by State of 
California AB-1414; sunsets 1/1/2025)
MISC. INSPECTIONS AND FEES (continued)
Applicable to building, plumbing, electrical and 
mechanical permits.
ROOFTOP SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (Fee set 
by State of California AB-1414; sunsets 1/1/2025)
ELECTRICAL VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS
224 of 311

--- page 225 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
V.
ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES
A.
MINIMUM ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$156.00 $151.00
B.
PERMIT ISSUANCE
Each
$72.00 $74.00
C.
SYSTEM FEE SCHEDULE
1. Private Swimming Pools
For new private, residential, in- ground,
swimming pools for single- family & multi-
family occupancies including a complete system
of necessary branch circuit wiring, bonding,
grounding, underwater lighting, water pumping,
& other similar electrical equipment directly
related to the operation of a swimming pool.
For other types of swimming pools, therapeutic
whirlpools, spas & alterations to existing
swimming pools, use the UNIT FEE
SCHEDULE
Each
$234.00 $241.00
2. Temporary Power Service
For a temporary service power pole or pedestal
including all pole or pedestal-mounted receptacle
outlets & appurtenances.
For a temporary distribution system & temporary
lighting & receptacle outlets for construction
sites, decorative light, Christmas tree sales lots,
firework stands, etc.
Each
$78.00 $80.00
D.
Sq Ft.
$0.10 
E.
The following do not include permit issuing fee.
1. Receptacle, Switch and Lighting Outlets1
For receptacle, switch, lighting or other outlets at
which current is used or controlled, except
services, feeders and meters.
First 20
Each
$78.00 $80.00
Add'l outlets
Each
$2.00 
2. Lighting Fixtures
For lighting fixtures, sockets or other lamp-
holding devices.
First 20 
Each
$78.00 $80.00
Add'l fixtures
Each
$2.00 
For pole or platform-mounted lighting fixtures.
Each
$39.00 $40.00
For theatrical-type lighting fixtures or 
Each
$39.00 $40.00
3. Residential Appliances2 
Each
$118.00 $122.00
For fixed residential appliances or receptacle
outlets for same, including wall-mounted electric
ovens; counter-mounted cooking tops; electric
ranges, self-contained room, console, or through-
wall air- conditioners; space heaters; food waste
grinders; dish-washers; washing machines; water
heaters; clothes dryers; or other motor operated
appliances not exceeding one horsepower (HP)
in rating.
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS
Use the UNIT FEE SCHEDULE when fixture count 
is 20 or less. Otherwise, use square footage to 
calculate permit fees.
UNIT FEE SCHEDULE
1  NOTE:  For multi-outlet assemblies, each 5 feet or fraction thereof may be considered as one outlet.
225 of 311

--- page 226 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
V.
ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES (continued)
4. Nonresidential Appliances2
Each
$157.00 $162.00
For nonresidential appliances and self-contained
factory-wired, nonresidential appliances not
exceeding one horsepower (HP), kilowatt (kW),
or kilovolt-ampere (KA), in rating including
medical and dental devices; food, beverage, and
ice cream cabinets; illuminated show cases;
drinking fountains; vending machines; laundry
machines; or other similar types of equipment.
5. Power Apparatus3
For motors, generators, transformers, rectifiers,
synchronous converters, capacitors, industrial
heating, air conditioners and heat pumps,
cooking or baking equipment and other
apparatus, as follows: Rating in horsepower
(HP), kilowatts (kW), kilovolt- amperes (KA), or
kilovolt-amperes- reactive (KVAR):
Up to and including 1
Each
$78.00 $80.00
2 - 10
Each
$91.00 $94.00
11 - 50
Each
$185.00 $191.00
51 -100
Each
$239.00 $246.00
101 and Over
Each
$292.00 $301.00
6.
Busways4
100 Ft. or Fraction Thereof
$78.00 $80.00
For trolley and plug-in type busways
7. Signs, Outline Lighting & Marquees5
For signs, outline lighting systems or marquees
supplied from one branch circuit.
Each
$78.00 $80.00
For add'l branch circuits within the same sign,
outline lighting system or marquee.
Each
$13.00 
8. Services5
For services of 600 volts or less & not over 200
amperes in rating.
Each
$78.00 $80.00
For services of 600 volts or less & over 200 -
1000 amperes in rating.
Each
$237.00 $244.00
For services over 600 volts or over 1000 amperes
in rating.
Each
$275.00 $284.00284
9. Miscellaneous Apparatus, Conduits, Conductors
& Circuits5
For electrical apparatus, conduits, conductors, &
circuits for which a permit is required but for
which no fee is herein set forth.
Each
$118.00 $122.00
2  NOTE:  For other types of air conditioners and other motor-driven appliances having larger electrical ratings, see Power Apparatus.
3 NOTE: A) For equipment or appliances having more than one more, transformer, heater, etc., the sum of the combined ratings may be used.
B) These fees include all switches, circuit breakers, contactors, thermostats, relays and other directly related control equipment.
4 NOTE: An add'l fee will be required for lighting fixtures, motors and other appliances that are connected to trolley & plug-in type busways. No fee
is required for portable tools.
5  NOTE: This fee is not applicable when a fee is paid for one or more services, outlets, fixtures, appliances, power apparatus, busways, signs or 
other equipment.
226 of 311

--- page 227 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
VI. MECHANICAL PERMIT FEES
A.
MINIMUM MECHANICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$151.00 $156.00
B.
PERMIT ISSUANCE
1. For the issuance of permit
$72.00 $74.00
C.
Sq Ft.
$0.10 
D.
UNIT FEE SCHEDULE
1. For the installation or relocation of each forced-
air or gravity type furnace or burner, including
ducts & vents attached to such appliances, up to
& including 100,000 Btu/h.
 Each 
$78.00 $80.00
2. For the installation or relocation of each forced-
air or gravity type furnace or burner, including
ducts & vents attached to such appliance over
100,000 Btu/h.
 Each 
$198.00 $204.00
3. For the installation or relocation of each floor
furnace, including vent.
 Each 
$78.00 $80.00
4. For the installation or relocation of each
suspended heater, recessed wall heater or floor
mounted unit heater.
 Each 
$159.00 $164.00
5. For the installation, relocation or replacement of
each appliance vent installed & not inc'd in an
appliance permit.
 Each 
$78.00 $80.00
6. For the repair of, alteration of, or addition to
each heating appliance, refrigeration unit,
cooling unit, absorption unit or each heating,
cooling, absorption, or evaporative cooling
system, including installation of controls
regulated by this code.
 Each 
$78.00 $80.00
7. For the installation or relocation of each boiler or
compressor to and including three h.p., or each 
absorption system to and including 100,000 
Btu/h.
 Each 
$78.00 $80.00
8. For the installation or relocation of each boiler or
compressor over three h.p. to & including 15 
h.p., or each absorption system over 100,000
Btu/h & including 500,000 Btu/h.
 Each 
$172.00 $177.00
9. For the installation or relocation of each boiler or
compressor over 15 h.p. to & including 30 h.p., 
or each absorption system over 500,000 Btu/h to 
and including 1,000,000 Btu/h.
 Each 
$225.00 $232.00
10. For the installation or relocation of each boiler or
compressor over 30 h.p. to and including 50 h.p., 
or for each absorption system over 1,000,000 
Btu/h to and including 1,750,000 Btu/h.
 Each 
$278.00 $287.00
11. For the installation or relocation of each boiler or
refrigeration compressor over 50 h.p., or each 
absorption system over 1,750,000 Btu/h.
 Each 
$358.00 $369.00
12. For each air-handling unit to and including
10,000 cubic feet per minute, including ducts 
attached thereto. NOTE: This fee shall not apply 
to an air-handling unit which is a portion of a 
factory-assembled appliance, cooking unit, 
evaporative cooler or absorption unit for which a 
permit is required elsewhere in this code.
 Each 
$240.00 $247.00
13. For each air-handling unit over 10,000 cfm.
 Each 
$319.00 $329.00
14. For each evaporative cooler other than portable
type.
 Each 
$78.00 $80.00
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS
Use the UNIT FEE SCHEDULE when fixture count
is 3 or less. Otherwise, use square footage to
calculate permit fees
227 of 311

--- page 228 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
VI. MECHANICAL PERMIT FEES (continued)
15. For each ventilation fan connected to a single
duct.
 Each 
$78.00 $80.00
16. For each ventilation system which is not a
portion of any heating or air condition system
authorized by a permit.
 Each 
$78.00 $80.00
17. For the installation of each hood which is served
by mechanical exhaust, including the ducts for
such hood.
 Each 
$80.00 $82.00
18. For the installation or relocation of each
domestic-type incinerator.
 Each 
$39.00 $40.00
19. For the installation or relocation of each
commercial or industrial type incinerator.
 Each 
$159.00 $164.00
20. For each appliance or piece of equipment
regulated by this code but not classed in other
appliance categories, or for which no other fee is
listed in this code.
 Each 
$118.00 $122.00
VII. PLUMBING PERMIT FEES
A.
MINIMUM PLUMBING PERMIT FEE
$151.00 $156.00
B.
PERMIT ISSUANCE
 Each 
$72.00 $74.00
1. For the issuance of permit
C.
Sq Ft.
$0.10 
D.
UNIT FEE SCHEDULE
1. For each plumbing fixture or trap or set of
fixtures on one trap (including water, drainage
piping and backflow protection).
 Each 
$78.00 $80.00
2. For each building sewer
 Each 
$78.00 $80.00
3. Rain water systems - per drain (inside building).
 Each 
$78.00 $80.00
4. For each water heater and/or vent.
 Each 
$78.00 $80.00
5. Tankless Water Heater
 Each 
$308.00 $318.00
6. For each industrial waste pretreatment
interceptor including its trap and vent, excepting
kitchen- type grease interceptors functioning as
fixture traps.
 Each 
$78.00 $80.00
7. For installation, alteration or repair of water
piping and/or water treating equipment.
 Each 
$78.00 $80.00
8. For repair or alteration of drainage or vent
 Each Fixture 
$78.00 $80.00
9. For each lawn sprinkler system on any one
meter, including backflow protection devices.
 Each System 
$78.00 $80.00
10. For atmospheric-type vacuum breakers not
included in Item 2:
1 to 5
 Each 
$78.00 $80.00
over 5
 Each 
$78.00 $80.00
11. For each backflow protective device other than
atmospheric-type vacuum breakers
2 inches & smaller 
 Each 
$78.00 $80.00
over 2 inches
 Each 
$78.00 $80.00
12. For each gas piping system
1-4 Outlets
$78.00 $80.00
13. For each gas piping system of five or more
Per Outlet
$3.00 
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS
Use the UNIT FEE SCHEDULE when fixture count
is 3 or less. Otherwise, use square footage to
calculate permit fees
228 of 311

--- page 229 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
VIII. SIGN PERMIT FEES**
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$4.85 $5.00
 Minimum 
$38.80 $43.28
 Maximum 
$455.90 $471.84
 Each 
$78.00 $80.00
IX. CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$1.08 
A.
B.
C.
X.
A.
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$10.79 $10.44
B.
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$5.40 $5.22
C.
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$26.99 $26.10
XI.
 Each 
0.5% of valuation
ART IN PUBLIC PLACE FEE
The fee is applicable to commercial and multi-family
residential projects exceeding three (3) million dollars in
building permit valuation.
Projects over 10,000 sq. ft. that are one or more of the
NEW COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT OF 
SUPERSTRUCTURE
ADDITION OF SQUARE FOOTAGE TO 
EXISTING COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS 
REQUIRING PLANNING APPROVAL
COMMERCIAL LINKAGE FEE
(City Council adopted September 16, 2016 - effective 
November 16, 2016)
New commercial construction in excess of 5,000 
Exempts public uses such as hospitals, nonprofit and 
government facilities, churches, schools and child care 
All permanent signs
**PENALTY: When a sign permit is required and a sign is installed prior to obtaining a permit, a double fee shall be charged.
HOTELS
RETAIL, RESTAURANTS, AND SERVICES
OFFICE, RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT USES, 
AND MEDICAL OFFICES
Temporary Banner (30-day)
229 of 311

--- page 230 ---
UNIT
I.
1.
First Citation
$100.00
If not Abated, Second Citation
$200.00
If not Abated, Third Citation
$500.00
II.
First Citation
$200.00
If not Abated, Second Citation
$300.00
If not Abated, Third Citation
$500.00
III.
Each Case
Actual Cost *
IV.
Each Appeal
$500.00
V.
Each Inspection
$100.00
ABATEMENT ORDER VIOLATION CORRECTION RE-INSPECTION
FEE
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
CODE ENFORCEMENT
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
 FEE 
NUISANCE ABATEMENT FEES FOR VIOLATIONS OF THE SMMC 
WHICH ARE SUBJECT TO ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION PER 
SMMC 1.10.
Violations of the SMMC Administrative Citation Ordinance which have 
been abated within 10 days of service and verified by the Code 
Enforcement Division have a reduced fee.
NUISANCE ABATEMENT FEES FOR VIOLATIONS OF THE SAME 
SMMC SECTION WITHIN 12 MONTHS OF INITIAL CITATION
VIOLATIONS OF THE SMMC REQUIRING 1) ORDER OF 
ABATEMENT, 2) AN INSPECTION OF SEIZURE WARRANT, 3) A 
POSTING OF AN ORDER DESIGNATING THE PROPERTY AS 
UNSAGE TO OCCUPY, 4) THE COMMENCEMENT OF THE CIVIL 
LITIGATION PROCEEDINGS OR 5) SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF 
HAZARDS.
*Actual Cost includes all costs of abatement, including, but not limited to: code
enforcement staff, and associated indirect costs, such as labor, equipment,
private contractor, materials, materials storage, and all other costs reasonable
and necessary to abate the nuisance.
APPEAL OF A DECISION OR ORDER TO ABATE
230 of 311

--- page 231 ---
CHARGE TYPE
FEE OR INITIAL DEPOSIT
I.
PLANNING APPLICATIONS
A. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
DECISION (SINGLE FAMILY ONLY OR CERTIFICATE OF
PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY - ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES)
Initial Deposit
$4,000.00
B. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
DECISION (OTHER THAN SINGLE FAMILY OR PCNs)
Initial Deposit
$6,000.00
C. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- PLANNING COMMISSION
DECISION
Initial Deposit
$10,000.00
D. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- PLANNING COMMISSION &
CITY COUNCIL DECISION
Initial Deposit
$20,000.00
E. FENCE EXCEPTION SPAR PLANNING APPLICATION
Initial Deposit
$2,000.00
F. SPECIAL USE PERMIT - DAY CARE FACILITIES
Flat fee
$2,000.00
G. ANNUAL REVIEW OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
Initial Deposit
$4,000.00
H. DESIGN REVIEW BY CONSULTING ARCHITECT (required for
projects with 6+ units, 10,000+ SF non-residential; or other projects
as determined by City Resolution)
Initial Deposit
$5,000.00
I.
LARGE PROJECT PRE-APPLICATION
Initial Deposit
$15,000.00
J. INFORMATIONAL NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING (PRE-
APPLICATION) PUBLIC NOTICE LIST PREPARATION
Flat Fee
$300.00
K. MODIFICATIONS OF APPROVED PLANNING
APPLICATIONS- ZONING ADMINISTRATOR DECISION
Initial Deposit
$3,000.00
L. MODIFICATIONS OF APPROVED PLANNING
APPLICATIONS- PLANNING COMMISSION DECISION
Initial Deposit
$10,000.00
II.
ENVIRONMENTAL CLEARANCE (CEQA) PROCESSING
A. CATEGORICAL OR STATUTORY EXEMPTION (Excluding
Single Family and PCNs)
Initial Deposit
$500.00
B. INITIAL STUDY/NEGATIVE DECLARATION
Initial Deposit
$5,000.00
C. INITIAL STUDY/EIR
Initial Deposit
$10,000.00
D. MANDATED FEDERAL, STATE OR COUNTY FEES (e.g., Fish
& Game CEQA Fee; Fish & Game Code §711.4; Negative
Declaration; EIR)
As Mandated by 
State
N/A
III. CITY STAFF TIME
All City departments reviewing a planning application.
Hourly Rate
$167.00
IV. MONITORING OF REQUIRED MITIGATION MEASURE
Initial Deposit for 
Determined for each project.
V.
INVESTIGATION
FEE for properties with code violations before or after planning 
approval.
Hourly Rate
$167.00
VI. RESEARCH FEE
A. RETRIEVAL OF OFF-SITE PLANNING APPLICATION
Flat Fee
$53.00
B. RESEARCH REQUIRING EXTENSIVE STAFF TIME
Job Cost Staff hourly rate
C. POST PLANNING APPLICATION PROJECT CONSULTATION
Job Cost after the 1st hour
VII. APPEALS
A. APPEAL FEE - ALL PLANNING APPLICATIONS
Flat Fee
$500.00
VIII LANDSCAPE UNIT IN-LIEU FEES
Per Landscape Unit
$321.00
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
PLANNING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
231 of 311

--- page 232 ---
CHARGE TYPE
FEE OR INITIAL DEPOSIT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
PLANNING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
IX. SUBORDINATION PROCESSING FEE
Applies to requests to allow City Housing Program loans to 
subordinate to new mortgage lenders in conjunction with refinances.
Per Loan
$250.00
X.
A. In Lieu Fees for Fractional Units
1. Rental
0.1 Housing Unit
$25,962.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$51,924.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$77,887.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$103,849.00
2. Owner
0.1 Housing Unit
$22,478.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$44,956.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$67,434.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$89,912.00
B. In Lieu Fee for Projects Less than 11 Units
1. Rental
5 Unit Project
$129,811.00
6 Unit Project
$155,773.00
7 Unit Project
$181,735.00
8 Unit Project
$207,698.00
9 Unit Project
$233,660.00
10 Unit Project
$259,622.00
2. Owner
5 Unit Project
$112,390.00
6 Unit Project
$134,868.00
7 Unit Project
$157,346.00
8 Unit Project
$179,824.00
9 Unit Project
$202,302.00
10 Unit Project
$224,780.00
XI. POLICIES RE: PLANNING FEES
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.
BELOW MARKET RATE HOUSING FEE
A fee in lieu of constructing affordable housing units onsite per Below 
Market Rate program:
The applicant shall pay the actual cost of any consultant services required to process a planning application including the 
environmental (CEQA) clearance processing.
"Planning applications" include: site plan and architectural review; special use permit; temporary use permit; variance; site 
development permit; subdivision and parcel maps; reclassification; planned development; general plan amendment; specific plan 
amendment; code amendments regarding land use regulation; development agreements, downtown economic development 
permit;  planned signing districts and freestanding signs over 8 feet in commercial districts, single family dwelling design review 
(SFDDR), mills act contract, historic building survey amendment,  historic building demolition permit.
If the cost of the staff time spent on the application(s) is less than the amount of the deposit, the balance shall be refunded to the 
applicant.
If at any time before action is taken on an application, more than 70% of the deposit has been expended on the application, the 
applicant shall be required to pay an additional deposit.
No public hearing on a planning application shall be held unless all deposits requested have been fully paid. No application by an 
applicant shall be accepted as complete pursuant to title 27 of the San Mateo Municipal Code if that applicant has failed to pay 
amounts due and payable for another planning application.
The applicant is responsible for paying the costs of staff and consultant time incurred pursuant to any appeal.
The cost for staff time expended by all city staff pursuant to a planning application shall be billed to the project account at the 
hourly rate in section III.
232 of 311

--- page 233 ---
UNIT
FEE
I. BUSINESS LICENSE LISTING
Each Qtr.
$32.00
II. RETURNED CHECK PROCESSING CHARGE (Non-sufficient fund checks and other issues)
Each
$25.00
III. STATE MANDATED DISABILITY ACCESS FEE (SB 1186)
On each Business Tax application and renewal
Each
$4.00
IV. NEW BUSINESS - FIRE INSPECTION
Each
See Note 
Below* 
$200.00
V. COLLECTION REFERRAL CHARGE
Each
$25.00
FINANCE DEPARTMENT
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
*This fee is collected on behalf of the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department. The current fee charged may be higher than what is
listed. Please see the San Mateo Consolidate Fire Department's fee schedule for current fees that will be collected by the City of San
Mateo on behalf of San Mateo Consolidate Fire Department at: smcfire.org/i-want-to
233 of 311

--- page 234 ---
UNIT
FEE
I.
A. GIS SERVICES DIGITAL DOWNLOAD OF GIS MAP
LAYERS FROM CITY'S GEODATABASE UPON 
REQUEST. (shapefile, fgbd, ACAD and more)
Hour
$90.00 $87.25
Additional Time (Hourly)
$90.00 $87.25
B. HARDCOPY PLOTS OF CITY MAPS CUSTOM /
STANDARD HARDCOPY PLOT OF CITY BASE MAP
LAYER(S)
Each 34" x 44"
$16.50 $16.00
DEPARTMENT OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
GIS MAPPING / ELECTRONIC DATA FEES
234 of 311

--- page 235 ---
UNIT
FEE
I. FINES
A. OVERDUE MATERIAL
1. Adult  Materials
Per Day & Per Item
$0.25
2. Juvenile Materials
Per Day & Per Item
$0.15 $0.20
**No overdue fines for borrowers ages 19 & under
3. Technology Lending Devices
Per Day & Per Item
$1.00
a.
Cleaning Fee for Devices
Per Item
$10.00
B.
1. Adult
Per Item
$8.00
2. Juvenile
Per Item
$4.00
II. FEES
A.
Per Item
Price of material
+ processing fee of $5.00
B. COPY CHARGES
1. Photocopy machine
a. Black/white copies
Per Copy
$0.15
2. Computer printer copy
a. Black/white copies
Per Page After 3 Pages
$0.15
b. Microform reader-printer
Per Copy
$0.15
c. Color computer printer copy
Per Copy
$0.30
C. COMMUNITY MEETING ROOMS, MAIN LIBRARY
1. Oak Room and courtyard
a. Non profit/not for profit (business hours)
$185.00 $180.00 for 1st 4 hours + 
$30 each additional hour
b. Non profit/not for profit (after hours)
Per Hour
$155.00 $150.00
c. Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$120.00
Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$185.00 $180.00
d. Non-Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$185.00 $180.00
Non-Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$245.00 $235.00
e. San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$185.00 $180.00
San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$275.00 $265.00
f. Non San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$275.00 $265.00
Non San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$365.00 $355.00
g. Music recitals
Per Use (Up to 3 Hours)
$140.00 $135.00
h. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
$350.00
REPLACEMENT CHARGE FOR EACH ITEM LOST OR 
DAMAGED
LIBRARY
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
OVERDUE MAXIMUM FINE
235 of 311

--- page 236 ---
UNIT
FEE
LIBRARY
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
II. FEES (continued)
2. Laurel and Cedar Rooms
a. Non profit/not for profit (business hours)
$100.00 $95.00 for 1st 4 hours + 
$15 each additional hour
b. Non profit/not for profit (after hours)
Per Hour
$90.00
c. Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$90.00
Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$185.00 $180.00
d. Non-Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$120.00
Non-Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$215.00 $210.00
e. San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$185.00 $180.00
San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$275.00 $265.00
f. Non San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$275.00 $265.00
Non San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$365.00 $355.00
g. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
$250.00 $255.00
3. Library computer training room
a. Non profit/not for profit Use of:
1 -10 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$140.00 $135.00 per every 4 hrs
11 - 20 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$185.00 $180.00 per every 4 hrs
21 – 26 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$235.00 $225.00 per every 4 hrs
b. Resident or Non-Resident Use of:
1 -10 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$190.00 $185.00 per every 4 hrs
11 - 20 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$250.00 $245.00 per every 4 hrs
21 – 26 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$320.00 $310.00 per every 4 hrs
c. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
$500.00
d. A/V Technician Use of:
1 - 10 computers
Per Use
$35.00
11 - 20 computers
Per Use
$75.00 $70.00
21 – 26 computers
Per Use
$110.00 $105.00
4. Library – Other Areas
a. Other Library areas – fees to be determined on a case-by-
case basis by City Librarian or designee
Per Hour/Per Area
Up to $365.00 $355.00
b. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
Up to $500
5. Miscellaneous Meeting Room Fees
a. A/V Technician
Per Use
$35.00
A/V Technician – special projects
Per Hour
$55.00
b. Portable Stage rental:
Single stage (8’x6’x16”)
Per Use
$155.00 $150.00
Double stage (16’x6’x16”)
Per Use
$215.00 $210.00
c. Conference Phone rental
Per Use
$35.00
d. Piano tuning (special request)
Each
$200.00 $195.00
D. COMPUTER FILES STORAGE DEVICES
1.
USB flash drive
Each
$15.00
E. MATERIAL RECOVERY FEE
Per Account
$10.00
236 of 311

--- page 237 ---
UNIT
FEE
LIBRARY
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
II. FEES (continued)
F. PASSPORT PROCESSING SERVICES
1. Adult Passport Book & Card
Each
$175.00
2. Adult Passport Book
Each
$145.00
3. Adult Passport Card
Each
$65.00
4. Minor Passport Book & Card
Each
$130.00
5. Minor Passport Book
Each
$115.00
6. Minor Passport Card
Each
$50.00
7. Expedite Fee Per Passport
Each
$60.00
8. Passport Photo
Each
$15.00
8. Express Service to Processing Center
a. USPS Express Mail (up to 8 oz.)
Per Mailing Unit
$24.70 or Current postal rate
G.
1. One-time use fee per digital file for any medium
a. Personal/non profit use
Each
$20.00
b. For profit/commercial use
Each
$40.00
III. RESEARCH SERVICE
A. OBITUARY SEARCH SERVICE
Each
$20.00
Search for Non-San Mateo County 
residents
USE FEES FOR PHOTOGRAPHS FROM DIGITAL 
ARCHIVES COLLECTION
237 of 311

--- page 238 ---









PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
RECREATION COST RECOVERY AND PRICING POLICY*
The following shall serve as the policy guidance for establishing a Recreation Activities Cost Recovery Plan, developing annual activity budgets, 
and establishing fees to be charged for recreation activities. The specific elements of this policy are that:
The Park and Recreation Cost Recovery and Pricing Model shall be used.
 The Cost Recovery Plan shall, where appropriate, also include specific other fee considerations (e.g. benchmarking to a specific competitor) 
that may supersede cost recovery target considerations.
Once a Cost Recovery Plan is established, and within that context, staff shall have the authority to set and adjust fees, except that no fee 
increase shall exceed 20% within a 1-year period without the review of the Park and Recreation Commission and approval of the City 
Council.
As part of the budgetary process, the Park and Recreation Commission shall review the Cost Recovery Plan and the performance of each 
activity compared to the plan and make any recommendations for changes to the plan.
In recognition of the wide variety of service values and revenue generating potentials of various activities, specific cost recovery thresholds 
shall be established for each recreation activity area at the most specific programming level that is administratively practical.
The thresholds shall include both minimum and target levels of cost recovery.
Strategies for achieving the minimum and target thresholds shall be established by staff for each activity area. These strategies may include 
immediate or gradual action depending upon the best interests of maintaining a strong program, achieving the target within a reasonable time 
period and current fiscal conditions.
Activity areas unable to meet their minimum threshold after these strategies have been applied shall be reviewed by the Park and Recreation 
Commission for consideration of recommending appropriate action: reduce costs; reduce cost recovery target; eliminate activity.
Activities that have achieved or exceeded their target threshold shall be evaluated to determine if the target can/should be increased.
238 of 311

--- page 239 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
Recreation Cost Tier Definitions
Direct: The specific “go-away” costs at the course or activity level. These include leaders, instructors and materials or services (e.g. 
transportation) specific to the course or activity.
Program Direct Overhead (DOH): Direct supervision of the program, and minor miscellaneous items such as supervisor mileage.
Facility Overhead (FOH): The combination of facility direct costs (the day-to-day costs to keep the building open- receptionist, custodial 
services, custodial products, utilities) and facility direct overhead (primarily facility supervision).
Operating Indirect Overhead (Op IOH): Division level and shared costs, such as departmental management, brochure, printing, 
photocopying, training, accounting support, technology, credit card discount costs, administrative office clerical support, computer, and 
recreation equipment sinking fund charges
Facility Indirect Overhead (Fac IOH): Calculated charges for the Public Works Building Maintenance for on-going maintenance and 
repairs (e.g. plumbing, electrical, mechanical, carpentry, painting).
239 of 311

--- page 240 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
MINIMUM
Direct
Direct
75% Direct
Direct
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
MINIMUM
Direct
50% of Direct
100% Subsidy
Direct
Direct
Direct
Direct
Direct
Direct
Group 1- Highest service value consideration- composed of core youth programs. Typical thresholds ranges: Minimum- From 100% subsidy 
to direct cost recovery. Target- From 100% subsidy through Direct Overhead (DOH).
ACTIVITY
TARGET
OTHER FEE 
CONSIDERATIONS
Building Blocks
Through FOH
Benchmark fees to bottom end of 
Peninsula cities
RECREATION PROGRAMS COST RECOVERY PLAN - TABLE OF TARGETS
Summer Flex Camps
Through DOH
King Center Teen Programs
100% Subsidy
Swimming Lessons
Through DOH
Benchmark fees to mid-point of 
Peninsula cities
Recreation Swim
Direct
Group 2- Composed of core programs for youth and seniors, with service values as higher consideration. Typical thresholds ranges: 
Minimum- Direct cost recovery. Target- Through Direct Overhead (DOH).
ACTIVITY
TARGET
OTHER FEE 
CONSIDERATIONS
Children's Services Center 
Based Programs
Direct +20%
King Center Drop-In
100% Subsidy
Senior Services Link
100% Subsidy
Youth Dance/Dance Shows
Through DOH
Benchmark fees to mid-point of 
Peninsula cities.
Youth Art
Through DOH
King Center Children's 
Direct
Children's Services Special 
100% Subsidy
Senior Center Special Events
Direct
Teen Dances
Through DOH
Youth Gymnastics
Through DOH
Senior Center Programs
Direct
240 of 311

--- page 241 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
MINIMUM
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Direct + additional required 
office staffing
Through DOH
67% of food costs
MINIMUM
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
NOTE:
*
Fees established through the Recreation Cost Recovery and Pricing Policy shall be collected at the time of course registration, with certain exceptions. Prior 
to completion of a course, patrons may withdraw from a course and receive a refund. Refunds may be returned immediately or left on account with the 
Recreation Division for two years. After two years, all credits left on account by patrons that have not participated in Division activities for two years or more
are donated to the Recreation Fee Assistance Program.
Does not include special non-general fund revenues or expenses from grants, trust, etc.
Youth Music/Drama
Through FOH
Youth Sports Camps
Through FOH
RECREATION PROGRAMS COST RECOVERY PLAN - TABLE OF TARGETS (continued)
Group 3- Composed primarily of adult core, and youth additional typical programs, in which both service and cost recovery values are of strong 
consideration. Typical thresholds ranges: Minimum- Through Direct Overhead (DOH). Target- Through Facility Overhead (FOH)
ACTIVITY
TARGET
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
Adult Music/Drama
Through FOH
Adult Dance
Through FOH
Miscellaneous Athletic Activities
Through FOH
Beresford Kids Club
Through FOH
Benchmark fees to San Mateo Foster 
City School District after school Annex 
Adult Arts and Crafts
Through FOH
Adult Sports Leagues
Through FOH
Youth Fitness
Through FOH
Adult Fitness
Through Operating Indirect Overhead
Adult Swimfit
Through FOH
Fees less than top of market.
Specialized Aquatics Programs
Through FOH
Tennis
Through FOH
Benchmark fees to less than top of 
market.
Golf Lessons
Through FOH
Martial Arts
Through Operating Indirect Overhead
Ice Skating
Full Cost Recovery
Senior Lunch
Direct
Group 4- Composed primarily of specialty activities, with cost recovery considerations of highest consideration among the 4 groups. Typical thresholds 
ranges: Minimum- Through Direct Overhead (DOH). Target- range of from through Facility Overhead (FOH) to full recovery.
ACTIVITY
TARGET
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
Youth Leisure Education
Through FOH
Adult Leisure Education
Through FOH
241 of 311

--- page 242 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
 UNIT 
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
12/31/19
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/20
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
12/31/20
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/21
I.
FACILITY RENTAL FEES
A.
Beresford
Shelter
Per Use
$170.00
$175.00
$175.00
$180.00
Area #1
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
Area #2
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
Area #3
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
Bocce Court Tables
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
Casanova
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
Central
Entire Area 
Per Use
$405.00
$415.00
$415.00
$425.00
Area 1
Per Use
$170.00
$175.00
$175.00
$180.00
Area 2
Per Use
$85.00
$85.00
$85.00
$85.00
Area 3
Per Use
$85.00
$85.00
$85.00
$85.00
Area 4 
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
Harborview Park
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
Indian Springs Park
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
Joinville
Entire facility
Per Use
$195.00
$200.00
$200.00
$205.00
Area 1
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
Area 2
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
Area 3
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
King
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
Lakeshore
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
Laurelwood
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
Los Prados 
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
Paddock Park
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
Parkside Aquatic
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
$65.00
Ryder Park
Area 1
Per Use
$85.00
$85.00
$85.00
$85.00
Area 2
Per Use
$85.00
$85.00
$85.00
$85.00
Entire Facility 
Per Use
$170.00
$175.00
$175.00
$180.00
Shoreview
Per Use
$85.00
$85.00
$85.00
$85.00
Alcohol Fee 
Per Use
$50.00
$50.00
$50.00
$50.00
Jumper Fee
Per Use
$25.00
$25.00
$25.00
$25.00
Picnic Use/Cleanup Deposit 
Beresford Shelter
Per Use
$250.00
$250.00
$250.00
$255.00
Central Park – entire area 
Per Use
$250.00
$250.00
$250.00
$255.00
Bayside/Joinville – entire area 
Per Use
$250.00
$250.00
$250.00
$255.00
Ryder – entire area
Per Use
$250.00
$250.00
$250.00
$255.00
All other areas
Per Use
$250.00
$250.00
$250.00
$255.00
B. SPECIAL PARK PERMITS 
Filming for commercial purposes 
Hour
$50.00
$50.00
$50.00
$50.00
Japanese Garden or Rose Garden
Per Use
$195.00
$200.00
$200.00
$205.00
Per Use
$243.00
$250.00
$250.00
$255.00
Per Hour
$98.00
$98.00
$98.00
$100.00
Per Hour
$122.00
$122.00
$122.00
$125.00
Per Booking
$30.00
$30.00
$30.00
$30.00
Per Use
$28.00
$28.00
$28.00
$28.00
Per Use
$145.00
$145.00
$145.00
$150.00
Central outdoor stage
Per Use
$50.00
$50.00
$50.00
$50.00
Special Event Fee (minimum two hours)
Per Hour
$25.00
$25.00
$25.00
$25.00
Special Event Alcohol Fee
Per Use
$250.00
$255.00
$255.00
$260.00
Per occasion when using rec ctr.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
PICNIC AREAS (Fees effective 1/1/2019)
Resident
Non-Resident
Resident Extra Hours
Non Resident Extra Hou
Non Profit Rate
Chair Set-up
242 of 311

--- page 243 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
UNIT
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
12/31/19
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/20
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
12/31/20
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/21
I.
FACILITY RENTAL FEES (continued)
C.
Field Reservations
Priority 1
No fee
No fee
No fee
No fee
Priority 2
Youth Field Player Fee 
Per Player
$8.00
$8.00
$8.00
$8.00
Weekday and Half Day
Per Use
$8.00
$8.00
$8.00
$8.00
Weekend/Holiday Full Day 
Per Use
$15.00
$15.00
$15.00
$15.00
Tournament
Per Use/Field
$100.00
$100.00
$100.00
$100.00
Tournament Refundable Deposit
Per Use/Field
$250.00
$255.00
$255.00
$260.00
Priority 3-4
Youth Field Player Fee 
Per Player
$20.00
$20.00
$20.00
$20.00
Weekday and Half Day
Per Use
$20.00
$20.00
$20.00
$20.00
Weekend/Holiday Full Day 
Per Use
$40.00
$40.00
$40.00
$40.00
Tournament
Per Use
$200.00
$205.00
$205.00
$210.00
Tournament Refundable Deposit
Per Use/Field
$250.00
$255.00
$255.00
$260.00
Priority 5
Resident Adult Field Res
Per Hour
$25.00
$25.00
$25.00
$25.00
Priority 6
NR Adult Reservation Field
Per Hour
$32.00
$32.00
$32.00
$32.00
Non-Athletic based NP Field Reservation
Per Hour
$15.00
$15.00
$15.00
$15.00
Private Tournament
Per Use/Field
$200.00
$205.00
$205.00
$210.00
Refundable Deposit
Per Use/Field
$250.00
$255.00
$255.00
$260.00
Light Charges
Per Hour
$25.00
$25.00
$25.00
$25.00
Fields - Unlocked Soccer Goal Fee 
Per Request
$25.00
$25.00
$25.00
$25.00
Field Attendant
Per Hour
$19.00
$19.00
$19.00
$20.00
Tennis Court Reservation
Per Hour
$9.00
$9.00
$9.00
$9.00
Bocce Courts (4 hours or less) 
Per Booking
$11.00
$11.00
$11.00
$11.00
Bocce Courts (4+ hours) 
Per Booking
$25.00
$25.00
$25.00
$25.00
Outdoor Fitness Fee
Per Hour
$25.00
$25.00
$25.00
$25.00
San Mateo High School Gymnasium Rentals
Gym
Per Hour
$70.00
$75.00
$75.00
$75.00
Lobby
Per Hour
$30.00
$30.00
$30.00
$30.00
Dance Studio
Per Hour
$30.00
$35.00
$35.00
$35.00
Multi-Purpose Room
Per Hour
$30.00
$35.00
$35.00
$35.00
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
ATHLETICS  (Fees effective 1/1/19)
(Priority Levels defined on page 8.13)
243 of 311

--- page 244 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
UNIT
II.
AQUATICS - (See Classification Categories on page 8.12)
A. CENTER RENTALS - (See pages 8.10 - 8.12)
JOINVILLE
Large Pool (includes Dressing Room)
Classification A
No Charge
No Charge
Classification B
$23.00
$24.00
Classification E
$34.00
$35.00
Non-Resident
$42.00
$43.00
Small Pool (includes Dressing Room)
Classification A
No Charge
No Charge
Classification B
$12.00
$12.00
Classification E
$17.00
$18.00
Non-Resident
$21.00
$22.00
Multi-Purpose Room
Off Season Closure Period
BIRTHDAY PARTY FEE
Reservation Fee/Deposit
Includes 15 Guests
$95.00
$95.00
Additional Guests
Up to 20 Guests
$6.00
$6.00
KING POOL
Both Pools (includes Dressing Room)
Classification A
No Charge
No Charge
Classification B
$19.00
$20.00
Classification E
$29.00
$30.00
Non-Resident
$36.00
$37.00
Off Season Closure Period
BOATHOUSE
Classification A
No Charge
No Charge
Classification B
$20.00
$20.00
Classification E
$32.00
$32.00
Non-Resident
$41.00
$41.00
FACILITY PERS. RATES
Custodian
Per Hour
$29.00
$30.00
Facility Specialist
Per Hour
$19.00
$20.00
LIFEGUARDS
1st Guard - Senior Guard
Per Hour
$20.00
$20.00
2nd & each additional Guard
Per Hour
$17.00
$17.00
MARINA LAGOON
Boating pass (power boats 5 hp and up)
Annual
$450.00
$450.00
Daily
$40.00
$40.00
Boating pass (under 5 hp and sail over 8 ft.)
Annual
$250.00
$250.00
Daily
$25.00
$25.00
III. MISCELLANEOUS FEES
Volleyball net and standards rental
Per Weekend
$30.00
$30.00
Refundable Deposit
$100.00
$100.00
Custodian
Per Hour
$29.00
$30.00
Clay
25 lb Bag
Actual cost
Actual cost
PHOTOCOPY & MAILINGS
Agendas
Year
$6.00
$6.00
Agendas & Minutes
Year
$12.00
$12.00
Photocopies
Per Sheet
$0.15
$0.15
IV.
SCHOOL DISTRICT FEES
A.  
B. SAN MATEO FOSTER CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT (SMFCSD)
Unless otherwise specified in an adopted facility use agreement, indoor and athletic facility fees shall be calculated administratively to be comparable to the 
SMFCSD fee schedule as it pertains to City use of similar SMFCSD facilities.
Picnic and special park facility fees, and staffing fees charged to SMFCSD shall be at the rates described in other sections of the fee schedule. Pool fees for 
SMFCSD use shall be charged at the non-profit rate.
SAN MATEO HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
Unless otherwise specified in an adopted facility use agreement, indoor, swimming pool and athletic facility fees shall be calculated administratively to be 
comparable to the SMUHSD fee schedule as it pertains to City use of similar SMUHSD facilities.
Picnic and special park facility fees, and staffing fees charged to SMUHSD shall be at the rates described in other sections of the fee schedule.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
FEES
FEES
See Community Centers 
Category 4 (pg 8.10)
See Community Centers 
Category 4 (pg 8.10)
By negotiation - full cost 
By negotiation - full cost 
By negotiation - full cost 
By negotiation - full cost 
Fees shall be applied to the district and affiliated organizations (eg. PTA, Boosters, Foundation) as follows:
244 of 311

--- page 245 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
UNIT
V.
GOLF COURSE
A. GENERAL
Weekdays
Per Round
$38.00
$29.00
Weekday Twilight
Per Round
$27.00
$28.00
Weekday Super Twilight
Per Round
$19.00
$20.00
Weekends (Fri., Sat., Sun., Holiday) 
Per Round
$53.00
$55.00
Weekend Twilight
Per Round
$33.00
$35.00
Weekend Super Twilight 
Per Round
$25.00
$27.00
Weekday-back 9
Per Round
$24.00
$25.00
Weekend-back 9
Per Round
$28.00
$29.00
Sr. 10 Play Card
Each
$300.00
$310.00
B. RESIDENT
Weekdays
Per Round
$33.00
$34.00
Weekday Twilight
Per Round
$27.00
$28.00
Weekday Super Twilight
Per Round
$19.00
$20.00
Weekends (Fri., Sat., Sun., Holiday) 
Per Round
$45.00
$47.00
Weekend Twilight
Per Round
$33.00
$35.00
Weekend Super Twilight 
Per Round
$25.00
$27.00
Weekday-back 9
Per Round
$24.00
$25.00
Weekend-back 9
Per Round
$28.00
$29.00
Senior Weekdays
Per Round
$27.00
$30.00
Sr. 10 Play Card
Each
$250.00
$260.00
C. JUNIOR
Jr. Weekdays
Per Round
$14.00
$15.00
Jr. Weekend
Per Round
$17.00
$18.00
D. RESIDENT GOLF I.D. CARD
Per Annual Fee
$20.00
$20.00
E. RANGE BALLS (BUCKET)
Size: Warm-up
$5.00
$5.00
Small
$8.00
$8.00
Medium
$11.00
$11.00
Large
$14.00
$14.00
VI.
PARK AND LANDSCAPE RESOURCES
A. HERITAGE TREE PERMIT
Per Permit
$75.00
$80.00
Tree Replacement Cost (24" Box Tree)
Per Tree
$425.00
$475.00
Right of Way Tree Removal
Per Hour
Per Residential Unit Type:
Per unit*
Per unit*
Single Family
$27,769.00
$26,973.00
Multi-family 2-4 Units
$17,405.00
$16,906.00
Multi-family 5+ Units
$20,045.00
$19,470.00
Mobile Homes
$19,556.00
$18,995.00
C.  
 Per $100 Valuation on Building 
Permit App. 
$0.30
$0.30
Single Family
2.84
 
persons per unit
Multi-family 2-4 units
1.78
 
persons per unit
Multi-family 5+ units
2.05
 
persons per unit
Mobile Homes
2.00
 
persons per unit
VII.
A.
B.
Building Valuation on Those 
Building Permits Whose 
Valuation is Over $5,000
CONSULTANTS FOR SPECIALIZED PLAN CHECKING 
AND INSPECTION SERVICES OR TO EXPEDITE PLAN 
CHECKING AND INSPECTION SERVICES
Fee is per Consultant's rate
Fee is per Consultant's rate
REIMBURSE COST OF STAFF OR CONSULTANT TIME 
SPENT IN PLAN CHECK OR INSPECTION SERVICES. 
PARK PLAN CHECK AND INSPECTION SERVICES ON 
BUILDING PERMITS. FEE TO BE COLLECTED AT TIME 
OF BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATION. AFTER 
PAYMENT OF FEES, PERMITTEE MAY APPLY FOR AN 
EXEMPTION FOR PROJECTS HAVING NO PARK PLAN 
CHECK OR INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
0.07%
0.07%
* Fee = Land Dedication Requirement x Median Land Value of $4,888,914 per acre adopted by City Council Resolution, where Land Dedication Requirement = [(Quantity 
of proposed dwelling units x population factor per dwelling unit type) less (quantity of existing dwelling units x population factor per dwelling unit type)] x (2 acres/ 1000 
population) per Muni Code Section 26.64. The population factors per dwelling unit type are as follows:
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
FEES
FEES
Golf Fees ‐ The Parks and Recreation Director may adjust green fee 
amounts for marketing and promotional activities as is necessary to 
encourage optimum play at the municipal golf courses  (Effective 
3/4/19) .
Actual cost charged by a city 
designated private tree care 
company
Actual cost charged by a city 
designated private tree care 
company
B. PARK IN-LIEU FEE / PARK IMPACT FEE FOR 
RESIDENTIAL PLANNING APPLICATION PROJECTS 
INVOLVING PARCEL MAPS, SUBDIVISION AND 
OTHER MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL PROJECTS.
PARK AND RECREATION TAX ON RESIDENTIAL 
BUILDING PERMITS1
1These fees are collected by Community Development's Building Division - see page 2.3
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT REVIEW FEE1
245 of 311

--- page 246 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
Flat Per Use B-1*
$40.00
$30.00
$25.00
$15.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Flat Per Use B-2*
$50.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Flat Per Use B-3*
$45.00
$35.00
$30.00
$20.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Room Hourly E-1*
Room Hourly NR-1*
$120.00
$145.00
$95.00
$120.00
$75.00
$90.00
$40.00
$50.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Room Hourly E-2*
Room Hourly NR-2*
$170.00
$200.00
$145.00
$170.00
$120.00
$135.00
$70.00
$80.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Hourly E-2*
Hourly NR-2*
N/A
N/A
$95.00
$120.00
$75.00
$90.00
$40.00
$50.00
Gymnasium (E1, E-2)
$25.00
E-2
$90.00
NR-2
$115.00
Community Center Fee Schedule
B-1 Classification: (Non-profit (including 501©(6)) conducting business activity)
Room Category
B-2 Classification: (Non-profit booking on Sat/Sun beginning after 3 pm or ending after 6pm - fee applies to entire booking)
Room Category
Any Room
Additional Hourly Charges: $19.00 Rental Officer per hour if needed; $29.00 Custodian per hour if needed.
B-3 Classification: (B-1 groups reserving regular monthly meeting times.)
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
Additional Hourly Charges: $19.00 Rental Officer per hour if needed; $29.00 Custodian per hour if needed.
Additional Hourly Charges: $19.00 Rental Officer per hour if needed; $29.00 Custodian per hour if needed.
E-1 & NR-1 Classification: (private, profit & non-resident business uses during specifically designated operating hrs.)
Room Category
Category 1
Category 2
Room Category
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
Additional Hourly Charges: If requesting more than one room, use the following chart for additional fees:
Category 3
Category 4
Additional Hourly Charges: $19.00 Rental Officer per hour if needed; $29.00 Custodian per hour if needed.
E-2 & NR-2 Classification: (private, profit & non-resident business uses during non-business hours)
Room Category
King
Birthday
Birthday
Room Category
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
246 of 311

--- page 247 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
Standing
Theatre
Facility
Room
Catego
Beresford
Assembly
1
614
439
Beresford
Social
3
359
256
Beresford
Activity
3
540
385
Beresford
Conference
4
Beresford
Studio
4
333
238
Beresford
Club
4
342
244
Beresford
Assembly
2
Central
Activity A/B
2
265
189
Central
Activity A
4
Central
Stage
4
307
219
Central
Lounge
4
254
181
Central
Activity B
4
City Hall
City 
Council
2
City Hall
Room C
3
City Hall
Atrium
3
City Hall
Room A
4
211
150
City Hall
Room B
4
City Hall
Cafeteria
4
250
178
King
Assembly
1
125
89
King
Social A/B
2
125
89
King
Studio
4
84
60
King
Social A
4
King
Conference
4
King
Social B
4
Joinville 
Pool
Multipurpose
4
162
116
170
122
101
72
Sr. Center
Assem/MP
1
158
113
Sr. Center
Activity
3
125
89
Sr. Center
Assem/MP 
A
4
158
113
Sr. Center
Conference
4
150
107
C. FACILITY CATEGORY TABLES
Facility
Room
Banquet
Sr. Center
Assembly
180
Category 2
Central
Activity 
111
Category 1
Beresford
Assembly
205
King
Assembly
120
King
Social 
88
Category 3
Beresford
Activity
102
Central
Assembly
114
City Hall
Council 
Chambers
City Hall
Atrium
Beresford
Social
85
City Hall
Conf 
Rm C
Category 4
Beresford
Studio
83
Beresford
Studio A
42
Sr. Center
Activity
70
Beresford
Conference
26
Central
Lounge
Beresford
Studio B
42
Beresford
Club
28
Central
Activity B
57
City Hall
Conf 
Central
Stage
Central
Activity A
54
Joinville 
Multipurpose
King
Conference
34
City Hall
Conf 
City Hall
Cafeteria
King
Social 
B
53
King
Studio
53
King
Social 
A
42
Note - Capacities are fire safety maximums. Rental capacities may vary and are established by each center consistent with use needs.
Sr. Center
Assem/MP 
A (Back 
Half)
50
247 of 311

--- page 248 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
Classification B:
Recreation activities and meetings that are organized, promoted, conducted, and sponsored by registered non-profits (IRS registered non-
profit or established and organized not-for-profit groups with written organization documents, stationary, and/or membership lists) serving 
residents of the City of San Mateo and whose membership is open to the general public.
Classification B-1:
FACILITY PERMIT CLASSIFICATION DEFINITIONS
Classification A:
Public recreation activities that are co-sponsored by or affiliated with the Recreation Department after meeting department qualifications and 
Classification B-4:
B-1 groups participating in in-kind volunteer service fee waiver program.
Classification E:
Any recreation, social, business, or service activity conducted by any person or group not included within Classifications A or B and are 
residents or businesses of the City of San Mateo, such as parties and receptions.
Any activities which are related to the business or mission of the organization.
Classification B-2:
Any activities scheduled during "Prime Time," defined as any booking beginning 3 p.m. or later, or ending 6 p.m. or later on Saturdays and 
Classification B-3:
B-1 groups reserving regular monthly meeting times.
NR-1: NR use during specifically designated public facility hours.
NR-2: NR use during non-public facility hours.
E-1: E classification use during specifically designated public facility hours.
E-2: E classification use during non-public facility hours.
Non-Resident:
Recreation activities, social, business, or service, meetings, and private groups in which one-half of its current membership are not residents 
248 of 311

--- page 249 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
Athletics Field Priorities
Priority 1:
Programs and activities conducted or sponsored by the City of San Mateo. This includes the San Mateo Police Activities League program(s).
Youth or Adult non-resident groups, teams, or individuals. Nonresident is defined as having an organization address outside of the San Mateo 
City limits and/or having less than 25% residency.
Programs conducted by organizations in which participants must "tryout" or be selected based on skill level. Organizations may be "select" in 
that participants may be recruited from cities other than San Mateo. Residency requirement for Priority 4 consideration is a minimum of 25% 
residency. Residency verification may be required.
Priority 5:
A. Adult resident sports groups or teams.
B. Resident private rentals.
Priority 6:
Priority 2:
Programs conducted by Elementary Schools (K-8) within the City of San Mateo. Also programs conducted by organizations that limit their 
recruitment and sign-ups to individuals living within the San Mateo City limits and are recreational in nature having a "everyone plays; no child 
is turned away" philosophy. Residency requirement for Priority 2 consideration is a minimum of 90%
Priority 3:
Programs conducted by private high schools within the City of San Mateo. Also, programs conducted by organizations in which participants 
must "tryout" or be selected based on skill level. Organizations may be "select" in that participants may be recruited from cities other than San 
Mateo. Residency requirement for Priority 3 consideration is a minimum of 50%. Residency verification may be required.
Priority 4:
249 of 311

--- page 250 ---
UNIT
I.
PERMITS
A. MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT:
1. Establishment Certificate for Non-Practitioner Owners
Base Fee for Processing
$559.00 $543.00
+ Actual Time Spent x Rate 
Per Hour as Appropriate
2. Establishment Certificate for Owner/Practitioners
Verification/Processing/Safety Inspection
Base Fee for Processing
$279.00 $271.00
+ Actual Time Spent x Rate 
Per Hour as Appropriate
B. MASSAGE PRACTITIONER OFF- PREMISE
Verification/Processing
Each
$53.00 $52.00
C. TANNING SALON
1. Tanning Facility Application Fee
Each
$475.00 $462.00
2. Tanning Facility Biyearly Renewal Fee
Each Facility
$79.00 $77.00
D.  TAXI CAB DRIVER Investigation/Processing
New/Renewal
$110.00 $107.00 1
E.
TAXI CAB INSPECTION
$132.00 $129.00 2
F.
ENTERTAINMENT PERMIT
Each
$305.00 $297.00
G. TOW SERVICE
1. Tow Truck Application Fee
$278.00 $270.00 1
2. Tow Truck Rotation List
$44.00 $43.00
3. Tow Truck Licensing Fee
$3.00
H.
Fee/Per Hour
$154.00 $150.00
II.
COPIES OF REPORTS
A. ACCIDENT REPORTS
Per Page
$0.15
B. CAD REPORTS
Per Page
$0.15
C. ARREST REPORTS
Per Page
$0.15
D. CLEARANCE LETTER
Each
$10.00
E.
PUBLIC RECORDS REQUEST
Per Page
$0.15
III.
VIDEO/AUDIO TAPE RECORDS AND PHOTOS
A. VIDEO RECORDINGS
1.
Each
$12.00
B. PHOTOS
Each
$5.00
IV.
Each
$15.00
V.
A.
Per 1/4 Hour
$6.00
B.
Per Page
$0.10
C.
Each
Actual Cost
DVD / CD / Flash drive Recording
FILING OF REPORT OF REPOSSESSION 
(State Law GC 41612)
SUBPOENA DUCES TECUM
(State Law CEC 1563)
CLERICAL COSTS (Charged on a 1/4 hr basis w/the hrly rate set at $24.00)
STANDARD REPRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS OF A SIZE OF 8 1/2 X 14 
INCHES OR LESS
REPRODUCTION OF OVERSIZE DOCUMENTS, DOCUMENTS REQUIRING 
SPECIAL PROCESSING, POSTAGE, RETRIEVAL/RETURN OF RECORDS HELD 
OFF-SITE
POLICE DEPARTMENT
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
FEE
Background Investigation/Verification/ Processing/Safety Inspection
PROJECT PLAN CHECKING FEE ON BUILDING PERMITS
250 of 311

--- page 251 ---
POLICE DEPARTMENT
UNIT
VI.
FALSE ALARMS
First alarm starting each fiscal year (7/1/2019)
One
Free
2nd & over
Each
$104.00
VII.
Each
As determined by the County
VIII. OFFICER RESPONSE
A.
Per Hour
$86.00 $84.00
B.
$86.00 $84.00
(one (1) hour min.)
C.
See “SPECIAL COMMUNITY EVENTS PERMIT” Section
D.
Each
$275.00
(per CA Government Code 
68097.2)
IX.
VEHICLE RELEASES
A. IMPOUNDED/STORED VEHICLE
Each
$20.00 $85.00
X.
One
$106.00 $103.00
Additional
$70.00 $68.00
XI.
OUTSIDE DETAIL RATES 3
Police Officer
Per Hour
$104.50 $98.50
Police Sergeant
Per Hour
$125.37 $118.18
Community Service Officer
Per Hour
$63.25 $60.80
Sr. Dispatcher
Per Hour
$82.28 $79.10
Police Reserve Officer
Per Hour
$81.96 $77.25
Police Vehicle Abatement Officer
Per Hour
$51.20
Parking Enforcement Rep.
Per Hour
$37.38
Police Officer
Per Hour
$130.62 $123.12
Police Sergeant
Per Hour
$156.72 $147.72
Community Service Officer
Per Hour
$79.07 $76
Sr. Dispatcher
Per Hour
$102.85 $98.87
Police Reserve Officer
Per Hour
$102.45 $96.56
Police Vehicle Abatement Officer
Per Hour
$63.99
Parking Enforcement Rep.
Per Hour
$46.73
Police Department Footnotes:
1 Plus prevailing State, Federal and County Fees for fingerprinting of applicants that are at the following costs:
DOJ Prevailing Fee
$32.00
FBI Prevailing Fee
$17.00
County Prevailing Fee
$5.00
$54.00
2
3
Category B: Fund raising events organized, conducted and sponsored by registered non- 
profit organizations.
Category C: Events sponsored by for-profit business or non-tax-exempt organizations.
The fee will include up to two re-inspections at no additional cost.  Additional inspections will be billed at 50% of the original cost.
OUTSIDE DETAIL
CIVIL SUBPOENA WITNESS FEE DEPOSIT (Governed by State Law). Actual costs 
will be charged
(excluding vehicles towed exclusively under the authority of VC 22651(c), (g), (k), (o), 
(i.)(l), or VC 226.55.5).
STORAGE OF FIREARM 
(Includes safekeeping)
Category A: City organized, conducted, sponsored, or co-sponsored events, or non- profit 
sponsored events that benefit city programs.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
FEE
BOOKING FEE (UPON CONVICTION) STATE LAW SECTION 29550.1.
EMERGENCY RESPONSE TO DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE (DUI) upon 
conviction (Gov't Code Section 53150-58)
DISTURBANCE SERVICE FEE
(loud parties, barking dogs, etc.)
Per Hour
Per Officer
In the event the Police Department must augment staffing of an outside detail with personnel from an allied agency, the outside detail rate charged shall 
be commensurate to the actual rate which is charged by that agency, which may be higher/lower than the rate listed.
251 of 311

--- page 252 ---
POLICE DEPARTMENT
$77.00/ $10.00 w/POC
$46.00/ $10.00 w/POC
$46.00/ $10.00 w/POC
$42.00
$46.00
$42.00
$46.00
$46.00
$46.00
$46.00
$42.00
$46.00
$42.00
$46.00
$46.00
$335.00
$42.00
$335.00
$46.00
$46.00
$56.00
$46.00
$335.00
$144.00
$144.00
$46.00
$46.00
$46.00
$46.00
$46.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$46.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
Overtime in meter zone/feeding meter
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$46.00
21113
Parking on public grounds-no permit
22500.1
Fire lane
22500(a)
Parking within an intersection
PARKING PENALTY SCHEDULE
Only one violation per citation
4000(a)
Expired registration (make sure you check the POC box)
5200
License plates failure to display (make sure you check the POC box)
5204
Tabs (make sure you check the POC box)
22500(e)
Blocking any driveway
22500(f)
Parking on a sidewalk
22500(g)
Obstructing traffic by parking near excavation
22500(b)
Parking within a crosswalk
22500(c)
Parking within a safety zone
22500(d)
Parking within 15 ft. of fire station driveway
22500(l)
Blocking wheelchair access to sidewalk
22502(a)
Not within 18” of the curb
22507.8
Handicapped parking
22500(h)
Double parking
22500(i)
Parking within bus zone
22500(k)
Parking upon any bridge
22521
Parking within 7 ½ feet of train tracks
22522
Blocking disabled ramp
22523(a)
Abandoned vehicle- any highway
22514
Blocking fire hydrant
22515(a)
Parked with engine running and/or parking brake not set
22516
Person locked in vehicle
11.32.070
Red, yellow, etc., curb markings
11.32.100
Commercial vehicle on residential street, 10,000 lbs. GVW
11.32.105
Oversized vehicle/trailer parked on residential street
22523(b)
Abandon vehicle-public/private property
11.32.030
Truck parked on City street (may be used for limos, small shuttle buses, and small school buses)
11.32.040
Parked on parkway (Planting strip)
11.40.040(a)
Restricted parking on City street (posted) (No residential parking permit)
11.40.040(b)
Restricted parking on City lot (posted) i.e., City Hall, Rec Centers, Library, etc.
11.40.055
Street sweeping
11.36.010(1)
Parallel parking in angle slot
11.36.020
Angle parking (right front tire not within 18” of curb)
11.40.040(a)
Restricted parking on City street (posted)
11.40.110
Parked on private property w/o consent
11.44.090
Parked in front of a hooded meter
11.44.130
Parking over lines
11.40.060
Curb wheels/set brake on hill
11.40.070
Parking so as to obstruct traffic
11.40.100
Violation of emergency signs posted
11.48.070
Parking in bus zone (curb marked)
17.08.20
Boat or other object parked on public right-of-way
11.44.150
Meter violation
11.44.160
11.44.165
Repeat violations for overtime parking (2nd violation-same day, same place)
11.48.030
Parking in alley
252 of 311

--- page 253 ---
UNIT
FEE
I.
PARKING FEES
A. TEMPORARY NO PARKING METERS (1)
Up to 7 days
Per Day/Per Meter
$12.50
8 – 49 days
Per Wk./Per Meter
$75.00
50 – 98 days
Per Wk./Per Meter
$150.00
99+ days
Per Wk./Per Meter
$300.00
Per Installation
$76.20
B. TEMPORARY "NO PARKING" SIGNS
Each
$3.00
C. DOWNTOWN PARKING FEE PARKING PASSES
2nd and El Camino Real 
Monthly
$65.00
Central Parking
Monthly
$100.00
Tennis Court Garage 
Monthly
$65.00
Main Street Garage 
Monthly
$65.00
Transit Center
Monthly
$65.00
Railroad Avenue between 5th to 9th
Monthly
$40.00
Kinko’s Lot – Lot 10,
Monthly
$40.00
Worker’s Resource Lot – Lot 11,
Monthly
$40.00
D. ON-STREET AND OFF-STREET RATES (per SMMC 11.40.010)
($0.50 minimum for credit cards at pay stations)
Time Limit:
Premium On-Street Space 
3 Hours/per Hour
$1.50
Premium Off-Street Facilities 
3 Hours/Per Hour
$1.25
Premium Off-Street Facilities
No Limit
$1.25
(Central Garage – Lots 4, 5, 6)
Value On-Street Spaces
3 Hours/Per Hour
$1.00
Value Off-Street Facilities 
3 Hours/Per Hour
$0.75
Value Off-Street Facilities
No Limit
$0.75
No Limit
$0.25
E. VALET PARKING PERMIT FEE 
Permit Fee 
Per Permit
$473.00
Implementation/Replacement Costs:
Curb Marking
Each Location
$84.00
Signs
Per Sign
$140.00
Meter Pole/Bracket
Per Pole/Bracket
$40.00
F.
Annually Per Space Per Day
$1.00 x # of spaces x # of 
days of operation per week x 
52 weeks
G. PUBLIC EV CHARGING STATION
Per kW/h
$0.25
Kinko’s Lot – Lot 10, and Worker’s Resource Lot – Lot 11
USE OF PUBLIC PARKING SPACES FOR VALET STATIONS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
For each time the City installs and removes a meter bag.
(Main Street Garage – Lot 1, Second and ECR Garage – Lot 2, Tennis Court Garage – Lot 3, 5th and B Lot 
Ravioli Lot – Lot 7, 4th and Railroad Lot Talbot's Lot – Lot 8, Transit Center – Lot 9, 5th to 9th Ave on S. 
Railroad Ave)
253 of 311

--- page 254 ---
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
II.
ENCROACHMENT PERMITS (see Encroachment Permit Notes (II))
A. NEW INSTALLATION PERMIT
Each
$896.00
Deposit
See "Note" below
1.
Each
$1,112.00
B. TEMPORARY PERMIT (Note II.B.)
1. Dumpster/Containers/Pods (Note II.B.1)
Each
$381.00
Deposit Per Location
$500.00
2.
Each
$381.00
Deposit Per Location
$1,000.00
C.  DOCK PERMIT
1. New Installation and Repair or Replacement (Note II.C.1)
Each
$167.00
Min Deposit Per Dock
$1,000.00
2. Annual Fee (Note II.C.2)
Per Dock
$128.00
D. UTILITY PERMIT
1. Permit Processing Fee (Note II.D.1)
See Notes
2. Deposit for Large projects (Note II.D.2)
Min Deposit Per Location
$1,000.00
E. INVESTIGATION FEE (Note II.E.)
Each
$896.00
F.   
Each
$896.00
G. OUTDOOR RESTAURANT SEATING & MERCHANDISE DISPLAY (Note II.G.)
Each
$367.00
NOTES:
II.
ENCROACHMENT PERMITS
A.
New Installation Permit
1. Permanent – City Right-of-Way Review Fee
B. 
 Temporary Permit
1.
2.
C.
Dock Permit
1. New Installation and Repair or Replacement
2.
D. Utility Permit
1.
2.
3.
E. Investigation Fees
1.
2.
F. Encroachment Permit Work in Conjunction with Site Development Permit
1.
2.
G. Outdoor Restaurant Seating & Merchandise Display
Request to place outdoor restaurant seating and/or merchandise display in the public right-of-way.  Installations must provide ADA access and minimum pedestrian travel way of three (3) 
feet.
When work that requires an encroachment permit is done in conjunction with a Site Development Permit or Project Funded Trust Account, the encroachment permit fee will be the 
same as a New Installation $896.00.  The total deposit will then cover fees for required engineering and inspection services by the City related to the encroachment and site 
development permits. The engineering and inspection fees for both the encroachment permit and the site development permit will be charged at an hourly rate of $130.00 per hour.
The fees charged plus the required deposit must be paid and standard insurance must be on file prior to issuance of any encroachment permit. The deposit will be held in a project 
account and any balance remaining after completion of the project will be refunded. Charges in excess of the deposit will be billed and must be paid before sign-off by the City that the 
work related to encroachment and site development permit is complete.
Utility projects considered large, shall place a minimum $1,000.00 deposit for review and inspection in a project account. Any funds remaining in the account will be refunded after 
project completion. Projects considered large are as follows:  100 linear feet or more of trenching, projects requiring traffic or pedestrian detours on collector and/or arterials roadways, 
and as determined by the Director of Public Works City Engineer or designee.
Utility company permit fees will be waived if the utility relocation work is the result of a City project.  Public Utility Commission Rule 20-A projects will also result in waiver of 
encroachment permit fees.
Dumpsters/Containers/Pods:  A standard encroachment permit, including necessary insurance, will be required for the placement of a dumpster, or container, or pod in the public right-
of-way. The fee shall be $381.00 and the deposit shall be $500.00.
Scaffolding, soil tests, sewer video inspections, etc.: An encroachment permit may be issued upon completion of an encroachment permit application and proof of current standard 
insurance on file with the City. A fee of $381.00 is required. In addition, a minimum $1,000.00 and security deposit  must be posted to insure removal of the temporary encroachment 
and cover any repair costs due to damage that may occur.
The Applicant shall pay a fee of $167.00 and a minimum $1,000.00 deposit to cover department reviews and inspections. Any funds remaining in the account will be refunded after 
project completion.
Annual Fee: Dock owners shall pay an annual fee of $128.00 to cover the costs of program administration and periodic inspections.
Utility companies shall pay a permit processing fee of $381.00.  For each job in the City right-of-way, the utility company shall obtain an encroachment permit, pay an utility 
encroachment permit fee of $190.00 and provide the City with current standard insurance.  A portion of the base fee will be used to fund the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program 
(STOPPP). Utility encroachment permits shall be obtained prior to any utility work in the City right-of-way.
Work without an encroachment permit will result in an investigation fee. Whenever any work, for which an encroachment permit is required by the San Mateo Municipal Code, has 
commenced without first obtaining said permit, a special investigation shall be completed made.  An investigation fee shall be charged and paid whether or not a permit is 
subsequently issued.  The fee must however be paid and the required standard insurance obtained before a permit may be issued for such work.
The investigation fee shall be equal to the amount of the encroachment permit fee as shown on the City of San Mateo Public Works Fee Schedule. The payment of such investigation 
fee shall not exempt any person from compliance with all provisions of the San Mateo Municipal Code, nor from any penalty prescribed by law.
Permanent – City Right-of-Way Review Fee (Note II.A.1.)
Scaffolding/Soil Test and Borings/Sewer or Storm Drain Video Inspection/Traffic Control (Note II.B.2)
ENCROACHMENT PERMIT WORK IN CONJUNCTION WITH SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT (Note II.F.)
All encroachment permits required as a result of any request for service, including conditions applied to Planning items (variances, site plan & architectural reviews, planned community 
developments, and others) shall be charged all appropriate fees as shown above.
Note: There will be no fee for encroachment permits to repair sidewalk tripping hazards as determined by City inspection staff.  A traffic control plan is required for all work  as specified in the 
Encroachment Permit Application packet.
In order to obtain an encroachment permit, a standard Encroachment Permit Application must be filled out by the owner of the property or the contractor performing the work. In addition to the 
required fee and application, all aspects of Chapter 17 of the San Mateo Municipal Code must be adhered to. The applicant must post financial security equal to the value of the improvements to 
secure performance. Labor and materials must also be secured at one-half the value of the improvements. Current standard insurance must be on file with the City. Insurance requirements include 
public liability and property damage insurance, naming the City as an additional insured. Evidence of insurance may include a certificate and/or endorsement.
Any improvements not included elsewhere in this section shall be charged the minimum fee shown above of $896.00.  If a project trust account has been funded by the applicant, his 
representative or a developer responsible for the construction of the project, will be charged the minimum fee shown above a base encroachment fee of $896.00 will be charged.  A portion 
of the fee will be used to fund the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program (STOPPP) in accordance with Chapter 7.39 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. The fee and deposit are waived
for City projects.
Request to place or replace structures such as fences, retaining walls, pilasters, stairs, etc. in the public right-of-way (ROW) when an exception is made by the Director of Public Works 
City Engineer or designee for such structure. This fee will cover field visit to the site, engineering review of the existing or proposed structure, and administrative time to prepare a 
license agreement. 
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
254 of 311

--- page 255 ---
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
III. STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION CONSTRUCTION PERMITS
A. PERMIT FEE - non-refundable
Each
No Fee
Each
$560.00
Each
$560.00
B. EROSION CONTROL MINIMUM COMPLIANCE
Minimum Deposit
$377.00
NOTES:
III.
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION CONSTRUCTION PERMITS
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
(See Stormwater Pollution Prevention Construction Permit Notes)
Type I Projects
Type II Projects
Type III and IV Projects
(See Stormwater Pollution Prevention Construction Permit Notes for description of types of projects)
PLUS
Type IV Projects
Type IV Projects are large sized projects, 1 acre or greater. Type IV Projects require a General Permit issued by the State Water Resources Control Board in addition to the City’s STOPPP 
Construction Permit. The STOPPP Construction Permit fee is listed above $560.00. Type IV projects required a minimum $368.00 refundable deposit for erosion control plan compliance. The 
minimum deposit is required at plan submittal for additional plan checking and inspection. At the time of permit issuance, additional funds may be required to be added to the deposit if the 
deposit balance is less than estimated inspection fees, as determined by the City. Any portion not expended by the City in its engineering review and inspection is refundable. Time billed at 
$130.00 $127.00 per hour. Expenses not covered by the deposit will be billed monthly. Bills to be paid in accordance with regular City billing processes. Account must be paid in full prior to 
final sign-off of conditions. The deposit will be refunded if permittee has complied with the submitted erosion plan and the City has not been required to perform work on permitee’s behalf. 
Type III and IV Projects -  Refundable Deposit
(See Stormwater Pollution Prevention Construction Permit Notes)
In order to obtain a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program (STOPPP) Construction permit per the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, an applicant (i.e., property owner or contractor 
performing the work) must  pay the appropriate permit fee. Type I Projects are not required to pay the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program Construction Permit fee, but are still required to 
comply with Construction Best Management Practices (BMP) as outlined in the permit card. Storm drain polluters may be liable for fines up to $10,000 per day. A permittee under the 
STOPPP Construction permit is required to adhere to all aspects of Chapter 7.39 of the San Mateo Municipal Code.  If the work being done involves an encroachment permit, a separate  STOPPP 
permit is not required since the encroachment permit includes it. 
Type I Projects
Type I Projects are small projects not in the public right-of-way that are generally under 20 cubic yards of soil disturbance (i.e. most residential driveways).  If the work being done involves an 
encroachment permit, a separate STOPPP permit is not required since the encroachment permit includes it. 
Type II Projects
Type II Projects are medium projects generally over 20 cubic yards of soil disturbance, such as installation/removal of swimming pools, demolition/installation of garages, home additions, 
retaining walls, and decks, that do not require a planning application and are reviewed through the building permit process (excluding residential driveways not in the public right-of-way). The 
fee for this type of project is listed above$560.00 . No deposit is required.
Type III Projects
Type III Projects are medium sized projects over 20 cubic yards of soil disturbance, such as home additions, new single family homes, that require a planning application. The fee for a Type III 
Project is listed above $560.00. Type III projects require a minimum $368.00 refundable deposit for erosion control plan compliance. The minimum deposit is required at plan submittal to 
guarantee to the City that the permitted will comply with the terms and conditions of the permit. At the time of permit issuance, additional funds may be required to be added to the deposit if the 
deposit balance is less than estimated inspection fees, as determined by the City. Any portion not expended by the City in its engineering review and inspection is refundable. Time billed at 
$130.00 $127.00 per hour. Expenses not covered by the deposit will be billed monthly. Bills to be paid in accordance with regular City billing processes. Account must be paid in full prior to 
final sign-off of conditions. The deposit will be refunded if permittee has met all requirement in the erosion plan and the City has not been required to perform work on permitee’s behalf.
255 of 311

--- page 256 ---
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
IV.
SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMITS (See SMMC 23.40)
A. PROCESSING FEE - non-refundable
Each
$39.00
PLUS
B. ENGINEERING/INSPECTION FEE (deposits) * *
Minimum Deposit
$2,500.00
185 - 1,000 cubic yards
Deposit
$2,500.00
+ Each Add'l Cubic
 Yard Over 185
$3.90
1,001 - 10,000 cubic yards
Deposit
$5,700.00
+ Each Add'l Cubic 
Yard Over 1,000
$0.30
over 10,000 cubic yards
Deposit
$8,400.00
+ Each Add'l Cubic 
Yard Over 10,000
$0.25
* *
V.
FINAL MAP-PLAN CHECK/ PROCESSING
A. PARCEL MAPS
Per Map
$2,410.00
B. SUBDIVISIONS
Per Map
$2,727.00
C. LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT/MERGERS (by deed)
Each
$1,579.00
D. CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE
Each
$526.00
E. MAP COPY FEE
Per Page
$22.00
F. ABANDONMENT EASEMENT / RIGHT-OF-WAY
Hourly
$130.00
Minimum Deposit
$2,181.00
VI.
REPAIR TO CITY PROPERTY
A. LABOR
Hour
$130.00
Hour O/T
$196.00
B. CONTRACTOR
Hour
Cost + 5%
C. MATERIAL & EQUIPMENT
Each
Cost + 5%
D. INSPECTION/SURVEY/ ENGINEERING
Hour
$130.00
*
VII. SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE (Collected by Bldg. Div. w/building permit)
A. RESIDENTIAL
1. Single-family dwelling
Per Connection
$2,650.00
2. Multi-family dwelling
a.
Studio, & 1 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$1,325.00
b. 2 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$1,991.00
c. 3 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$2,650.00
3. Hotels or motels
Per Room/Apt
$1,325.00
4. Board or lodging houses
Per Bedroom
$1,325.00
B. NON-RESIDENTIAL
1. Churches
Per Connection
$2,650.00
2. Golf courses
Per Connection
$2,650.00
3. Hospitals
Per Fixture Unit
$130.00
4. Lodges and clubs
Per Fixture Unit
$130.00
5. Rest, residential care & convalescent homes
Per Fixture Unit
$130.00
6. Schools
Per Fixture Unit
$130.00
C. COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL
Per Fixture Unit
$130.00
NOTES:
VII. SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE  (Collected by Bldg. Div. w/building permit)
1.
2.
3.
4.
a.
b.
c.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
In the case of Commercial and Industrial users, where the building has been previously occupied and the interior is being demolished or remodeled, the sewer connection charge will be 
computed as follows:
Commercial and Industrial users are also charged at the per fixture unit rate identified on the City’s sewer connection charge worksheet. If the commercial or industrial user is constructing 
a new building the minimum charge is assessed at the time a building permit is issued. The charge is based on the number of fixture units as determined based on the Uniform Plumbing 
Code and the City worksheet. If tenant improvements occur after the initial charge is assessed and paid, the sewer connection charge at that point will depend on how many fixture units 
were actually installed as part of the new building permit. New fixture units will be charged at the per fixture rate identified on the City’s sewer connection charge worksheet.
Non-Residential hospitals, lodges and clubs, rest, residential care, convalescent homes, and schools are charged at the per fixture unit rate identified on the City’s sewer connection charge 
worksheet.
The assessment of the sewer connection charge is based on the Uniform Plumbing Code in conjunction with the plumbing fixtures identified on the City’s sewer connection charge 
worksheet. The City charges a minimum connection charge for Residential, Churches and Golf Courses. This minimum charge is based on an average number of fixture units per dwelling 
unit or entity.
Equipment rate based on the most recent State "Labor Surcharge and Equipment Rental Rates" book published by 
Caltrans Publications.
The remodeled or new structure will only be assessed a charge for fixture units in excess of those existing, based on the per fixture units identified on the City’s sewer connection 
charge worksheet.
The new plans will be used to determine the number of fixture units in excess of those shown on the demolition plans.
The demolition plans will be used to determine the number of existing fixture units.
The minimum deposits listed are required at plan submittal for plan checking and inspection. At  the time of permit issuance, additional funds may be required to be added to the deposit if 
the deposit balance is less than estimated inspection fees, as determined by the City. Any portion not expended by the City in its engineering review and inspection is refundable. Time 
will be billed at $130.00 per hour. Expenses not covered by the deposit will be billed monthly. Bills to be paid in  accordance with regular City billing processes. Account must be paid in 
full prior to final sign-off of conditions.
256 of 311

--- page 257 ---
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
VIII. ENVIRONMENTAL  COMPLIANCE FEES
A. CLASS A WASTE DISCHARGE PERMIT ANNUAL FEE
Each
$499.00
B. CLASS B WASTE DISCHARGE PERMIT ANNUAL FEE
Each
$345.00
C. STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERMIT ANNUAL FEE
Each
$261.00
D. POLLUTION PREVENTION INSPECTION FEE
Per Hour
$146.00
E. INSPECTION/INVESTIGATION FEE
Per Hour
$130.00
Per Hour OT
$195.00
F. SAMPLING FEE
Per Hour
$130.00
Per Hour OT
$195.00
G. ANALYTICAL SERVICES FEE
Each
Cost
H. HYDRAULIC LOADING CHARGE
Per 100 Cu. Ft.
Basic Sewer Service Charge 
rate
I.
DEFICIENCY RESULTING IN “SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE”
Each
$431.00
J.
FAILURE TO CONDUCT SELF-MONITORING
Per Hour
$130.00
K.
Each
$268.00
L. ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP/ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCE
1. Labor
Per Hour
$130.00
Per Hour OT
$195.00
2. Material And Equipment
Each
Cost
3. Contract Services
Each
Cost
M. APPEAL - of decision to issue permit, levy fees, or finding of noncompliance
$260.00
N.
Each Case
$2,622.00
NOTES:
VIII. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE FEES
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.
H.
I.
J.
K.
L.
M.
N.
Deficiency Resulting in “Significant Noncompliance”. At least annually, the Director shall provide public notice in the largest local daily newspaper a list of those significant industrial 
users that, during the previous twelve (12) months, were found in significant noncompliance, as defined in the pretreatment regulations and this Chapter. (7.38.420). Cost based on 
administrative time and cost of publication for 3 days in San Mateo County Times.
FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH OFFICIAL NOTICE TO CORRECT VIOLATION
VIOLATIONS REQUIRING INSPECTION WARRANT, OR COMMENCEMENT OF CIVIL LITIGATION 
PROCEEDINGS
The following fees are intended to help recover the cost of implementation and enforcement of SMMC Chapter 7.38
Hydraulic Loading Charge. The Director may impose upon the user a hydraulic loading charge for discharge of groundwater or other waters in cases where conventional sewer service 
charges applied by the City or District do not account for said flows or uses. User discharges which exceed 10,000 gallons per batch discharge or users undertaking long term discharges of 
groundwater to the sanitary sewer shall be metered and levied a hydraulic loading charge based upon the basic sewer service charge rate. (7.38.260)
Analytical Services Fee. Cost based in service provider cost of service.
Pollution Prevention Inspection Fee. The Director is authorized to conduct all inspection, surveillance, and monitoring procedures necessary to assure compliance with this Chapter. The 
Director may enter without unreasonable delay, during facility hours of operation, any premises of any user in which a potential pollutant discharge source exists or in which facility 
discharge and materials and waste records are kept. Records shall be made available to the Director for inspection and copying. Reasonable times for inspection and sampling may include 
times that are unannounced. (7.38.350, 7.39.140) Cost based on 0.5- hour admin and inspection time per year at standard labor rate.
Violations Requiring Inspection Warrant or Commencement of Civil Litigation Proceedings. In the event that the user refuses the Director entry to the premises, inspection may be made 
only upon the issuance of a search warrant by a duly authorized magistrate. In the event that the user refuses entry after the request has been made, the Director is hereby empowered to 
seek assistance from the court in obtaining such entry; Any person who has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this Chapter or any order or permit issued hereunder, shall be 
subject to the imposition of civil penalties pursuant to Chapter 1.11 of this Code. (7.38.350, 7.39.140, 7.38.410, 7.39.200, 7.38.480, 7.39.290)
Appeal of Decision to Issue Permit, Levy fees, or Finding of Noncompliance. Any person affected by any decision, action or determination, including administrative remedies, made in 
interpreting or implementing the provisions of this Chapter may appeal therefrom to the City of San Mateo Public Works Commission. (7.39.200). Fee is refunded if appellant prevails.
Environmental Cleanup/Abatement of Public Nuisance. City may impose a charge upon the user to reimburse the City or District for the cost of cleaning and/or repair of City facilities, 
including mitigation of waste discharge to the storm drainage system; any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter is a threat to the public 
health, safety and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance., and may be summarily abated and/or restored by the City. The cost of such abatement and restoration shall be borne by 
the owner of the property. (7.38.180, 7.38.470, 7.39.280).
Class B Discharge Permit. A Class B permit shall be issued, at the discretion of the Director, to any user who is not a significant industrial user, yet requires periodic inspection and/or 
monitoring to verify compliance with this Chapter. A Class B permit may be required for discharge of industrial waste from stationary sources, trucked wastes, contaminated groundwater, 
and other industrial wastes approved by the Director for discharge to the sanitary sewer. (7.38.260). Cost based on 1.5 hours admin and inspection time per year at standard labor rate.
Class A Discharge Permit. A Class A permit shall be issued to all significant industrial users (SIU). Class A permit holders are regulated in accordance with the requirements specified in 
the pretreatment regulations, 40 CFR Part 403 and 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471, as amended, and this Chapter. (7.38.260) Cost based on 4 hours admin and inspection 
time per year at standard labor rate.
Inspection/Investigation Fee. Applies to inspection and investigation activities not covered in D. or K. Cost based on standard labor rate.
Sampling Fee. The Director shall have the right to establish on any property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling or metering operations. During all inspections as provided 
herein, the official may take any samples deemed necessary to aid in the pursuit of the inquiry or in the recording of activities on the  site. (7.38.350, 7.39.140). Cost based standard labor 
rate.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Failure to Comply with Official Notice to Correct Violation. When an authorized enforcement official finds that a user has violated or is violating this Chapter, or a permit or order issued 
hereunder, the official may serve upon said user a Notice of Violation which enumerates the violations found, and orders compliance by a date certain. (7.38.460, 7.39.270); any condition 
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter is a threat to the public health, safety and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance. (7.38.470, 
7.39.280)
Failure to Conduct Self-monitoring. The Director may require that the user conduct a sampling and analysis program of the user’s waste or stormwater discharge of a frequency and type 
required by the Director to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this Chapter. (7.38.360, 7.39.160).
Stormwater Management Permit. A property that is required to install, operate, and maintain stormwater treatment facilities, or maintain parking lots, storm drain inlets, or other facilities 
for stormwater pollution prevention as specified in project conditions, shall obtain a Stormwater Management (SWM) permit from the Director of Public Works. (7.39.235). Cost based on 
2 hours admin and inspection time per year at standard labor rate.
257 of 311

--- page 258 ---
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
IX. DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES (subject to annual review)
A. WWTP PHASE II EXPANSION FEE
Gallon/ADF
$2.34
B. TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE
1. Residential
a.
Single-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$4,760.95 $4,367.44
b. Multi-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$2,922.38 $2,680.84
2. Commercial and Industrial
a.
Retail
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$8,187.63 $7,502.64
b. Office
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$4,370.10 $4,008.90
c. Industrial
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$2,847.13 $2,611.81
C. SOUTH TRUNK AREA SEWER IMPROVEMENT FEE
1. Single-family dwelling
Per Dwelling Unit
$5,009
2. Multi-family dwelling, 1 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$2,504
3. Multi-family dwelling, 2 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$3,756
4. Multi-family dwelling, 3 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$5,009
5. Hotels or motels
Per Room
$2,504
6. Non-residential
Per Fixture Unit
$250
D.
Per Space
$26,311
X. NEWSRACK ORDINANCE VIOLATION
A. ABATEMENT FEE
failure to abate violation for Chapter 17.12 of the S.M.M.C.
Per Violation
$66.00
B. APPEAL OF ABATEMENT ORDER FEE
(Fee refunded if appellant prevails).
Per Violation
$129.00
CENTRAL PARKING IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT PER SPACE IN-LIEU FEE
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Developer Impact Fee to pay for the increase of 1.5 Million Gallons a Day of treatment capacity for biological 
demand and solids in the Waste Water Treatment Plant. This increase is needed to accommodate the loading from 
future development and connections.
258 of 311

--- page 259 ---
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
XI. MISCELLANEOUS FEES
A. PLANS AND SPECS
Per Set
Varies at cost
B. ENGINEERING PHOTOCOPIES - large sizes
24" x 36"
Per Print
$3.70
36" x no. of feet
Per Print
$3.70
C. PHOTOCOPIES
8.5" x 11"
Per Copy
$0.15
8.5" x 14"
Per Copy
$0.20
11" x 17"
Per Copy
$0.30
D. PLOT COPY FEE – subdivision / parcel map
24" x 36"
Per Copy
$40.00
E. HANG BANNER
Per Request
$258.00
+ certificate of insurance
F. STREET LIGHT BANNER
Per Pole/ Per Banner
$65.00
G. CURB PAINTING:
Red Tipping
Per Request
$168.00
Initial installation (covers two years)
Maintenance Fee (covers two years) is 1/2 of initial installation fee.
Blue Curb (Disabled)
 Per Request 
$210.00
Yellow Curb (Loading Zone) 
Per Request
$210.00
White Curb (Passenger Loading) 
Per Request
$210.00
Green Curb (Limited-Time) 
Per Request
$210.00
Non-Critical Red Zones
Per Request
$210.00
H.
Each
$427.00
I. WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILTIES PERMIT
1. Minor and Major Permits
Min Deposit Per Location 
$7,500.00 $7,062.00
2. Section 6409 Permit 
Min Deposit Per Location
$4,000.00 $3,720.00
J.
Each
$5,000.00
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Request to place a new facility or substantial modification of an existing facility in the public ROW.  This 
minimum deposit listed is required at the pre-application phase. The deposit will cover field visits, engineering 
review of the existing or proposed facilities, inspections during construction, the cost of hiring an independent 
consultant with specialized or expert knowledge in connection with wireless facilities, including, but not limited 
to:  permit application completeness and/or accuracy, compliance with RF emissions, gap in services, alternative 
sites analysis, inspection during construction, and administrative time to process the permit application. At the 
time of permit issuance, additional funds may be required to be added to the deposit if the deposit balance is less 
than estimated, as determined by the City.  Any portion not expended by the City is refundable.  Account must be 
paid in full prior to final sign-off.
Request to modify an existing facility in the public ROW.  If modifications are deemed substantial, applicant shall 
apply for a Minor or Major Permit.  This minimum deposit listed is required at the pre-application phase and will 
cover field visits, engineering review of the existing or proposed facilities, inspections during construction, the 
cost of hiring an independent consultant with specialized or expert knowledge in connection with wireless 
facilities, including, but not limited to: permit application completeness and/or accuracy, compliance with RF 
emissions, gap in services, alternative sites analysis, inspections during construction, and administrative time to 
process the permit application. At the time of permit issuance, additional funds may be required to be added to the 
deposit if the deposit balance is less than estimated, as determined by the City.  Any portion not expended by the 
City is refundable.  Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off.
SHARED MOBILITY PERMIT APPLICATION FEE
(Note: Nonprofit organizations may contract with a vendor of their choice to install their banners but an 
encroachment permit is required.)
ADDRESS ASSIGNMENT FEE to be charged when assignment is not required as a condition of construction; charge 
for non-essential address changes only.
259 of 311

--- page 260 ---
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
SPECIAL EVENT APPLICATION FEES
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
SPECIAL EVENT FEES FOR SERVICE
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
UNIT
FEE
I. USE FEES -
PUBLIC STREETS AND RIGHT OF WAYS
Daily Use Fees:
Per Day
$100.00
Per Day
$200.00
Television Series/Movies/Pilot and Feature Films
Per Day
$300.00
CIVIC FACILITIES, PARKS, SPECIAL USE AREAS (for all uses)
Per Hour
$50.00
II. SUPPORT SERVICES FEES
III. DEPOSIT
Filming fees shall apply to commercial businesses desiring to film on public streets, right of ways or within city owned facilities, including parks, civic facilities and buildings or special use areas, 
such as Poplar Creek Golf Course.  Prior to the granting of a permit, all businesses shall comply with all applicable policies and procedures, including, but not limited to, evidence of insurance, 
permits and licenses, and appropriate hold harmless language.
Any filming use that requires any of the following, shall be billed in accordance with the guidelines outlined within the Special Community Events Permit Fee 
section, Category C designation; i.e. for-profit businesses or non-tax exempt organizations:
Fees for use of City equipment, consumable supplies, preparation of specialized logistic plans, specialized contracted services and on-duty personnel will be billed 
at cost, plus a 25% administrative overhead fee.
Fees for use of overtime personnel shall be calculated at the top step prevailing overtime rate for the classification(s) utilized plus a 25% administrative overhead 
fee.
SPECIAL COMMUNITY EVENTS PERMIT
COMMERCIAL FILMING FEES
FEE CATEGORY
Overtime rates for personnel not regularly on duty who are required to work the event
Fair market value charges for utilization of City equipment and/or vehicles used in support of the event
No Fee-For events open to the general public, sponsored by a non-profit organization that are not for fundraising purposes, where no registration or admission fee is 
charged, no donations or contributions are solicited or where no money exchanges hands.
$100 - For Low Impact events sponsored by a non-profit. A low impact event means any event other than a high impact event.
All businesses shall submit a refundable deposit in the amount of $1,000.00 at the time fees are due and payable to cover any unanticipated support services fees,
property damage repair, etc.
Videos/Travel/Documentary/Still Photography/Industrial Commercials
Regular rates for personnel who may be required to prepare specialized logistic plans in support of the event
Actual costs for consumable supplies, e.g. parking meter signs, garbage bags, etc., used in support of the event
Actual cost for specialized services contracted by the City that are required to support the event
$230 - For High Impact events sponsored by non-profits. A high impact event means a special event meeting two or more of the following criteria: 1) Being held for the 
first time; 2) expected to draw more than 500 participants; 3) held on a recurring basis; 4) requiring the support of 2 or more city departments; 5) following a route with a   
different start and finish; 6) requiring a street closure; or 7) requiring interagency coordination.
$500 – For Low Impact events sponsored by a commercial or for profit business. A low impact event means any event other than a high impact event.
$1,000 – For High Impact events sponsored by a commercial or for profit business. See above for definition of a High Impact event.
Depending on the nature of the special event, applicable fees may include some or all of the following:
260 of 311

--- page 261 ---
UNIT
FEE
I.
A. WWTP PHASE II EXPANSION FEE
Gallon/ADF
$2.34
Developer Impact Fee to pay for the increase of 1.5 Million Gallons a Day of 
treatment capacity for biological demand and solids in the Waste Water Treatment 
Plant. This increase is needed to accommodate the loading from future 
development and connections.
B. TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE
1. Residential
a. Single-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$4,760.95 $4,367.44
b. Multi-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$2,922.38 $2,680.84
2. Commercial and Industrial
a. Retail
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$8,187.63 $7,502.64
b. Office
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$4,370.10 $4,008.90
c. Industrial
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$2,847.13 $2,611.81
C. SOUTH TRUNK AREA SEWER IMPROVEMENT FEE
1. Single-family dwelling
$5,009.00
2. Multi-family dwelling, 1 bedroom
$2,504.00
3. Multi-family dwelling, 2 bedroom
$3,756.00
4. Multi-family dwelling, 3 bedroom
$5,009.00
5. Hotels or motels
$2,504.00
6. Non-residential
$250.00
D. CENTRAL PARKING IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT PER SPACE IN-LIEU FEE
Per Space
$26,311.00
II.
Each
0.5% of valuation
III.
Per Tree
$475.00 $425.00
IV.
Per Residential Unit Type:
A.
Single Family
$26,973.00 $27,769.00
Multi-family 2-4 Units
$16,906.00 $17,405.00
Multi-family 5+ Units
$19,470.00 $20,045.00
Mobile Homes
$18,995.00 $19,556.00
V.
Per Sq. Ft.
$1.08
A. NEW COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT OF SUPERSTRUCTURE
B. ADDITION OF SQUARE FOOTAGE TO EXISTING COMMERCIAL
DEVELOPMENT
C. COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRING PLANNING
APPROVAL
VI.
A. HOTELS
Per Sq. Ft.
$10.79 $10.44
B. RETAIL, RESTAURTANTS, AND SERVICES
Per Sq. Ft.
$5.40 $5.22
C. OFFICE, RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT USES, AND MEDICAL OFFICES
Per Sq. Ft.
$26.99 $26.10
ART IN PUBLIC PLACE FEE
The fee is applicable to commercial and multi-family residential projects exceeding 
three (3) million dollars in building permit valuation.
IMPACT, IN-LIEU, AND LINKAGE FEES
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES (subject to annual review)
Exempts public uses such as hospitals, nonprofit and government facilities, churches, 
schools and child care centers.
PARK AND LANDSCAPE RESOURCES
PARK AND LANDSCAPE RESOURCES
PARK IN-LIEU FEE / PARK IMPACT FEE FOR RESIDENTIAL PLANNING 
APPLICATION PROJECTS INVOLVING PARCEL MAPS, SUBDIVISION 
AND OTHER MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL PROJECTS.
Tree Replacement Cost (24" Box Tree)
CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE
Projects over 10,000 sq. ft. that are one or more of the following:
COMMERCIAL LINKAGE FEE
(City Council  adopted September 16, 2016 - effective November 16, 2016)
New commercial construction in excess of 5,000 sq. ft.
261 of 311

--- page 262 ---
UNIT
FEE
IMPACT, IN-LIEU, AND LINKAGE FEES
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
VII.
A. In Lieu Fees for Fractional Units
1. Rental
0.1 Housing Unit
$25,962.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$51,924.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$77,887.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$103,849.00
2. Owner
0.1 Housing Unit
$22,478.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$44,956.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$67,434.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$89,912.00
B. In Lieu Fee for Projects Less than 11 Units
1. Rental
5 Unit Project
$129,811.00
6 Unit Project
$155,773.00
7 Unit Project
$181,735.00
8 Unit Project
$207,698.00
9 Unit Project
$233,660.00
10 Unit Project
$259,622.00
2. Owner
5 Unit Project
$112,390.00
6 Unit Project
$134,868.00
7 Unit Project
$157,346.00
8 Unit Project
$179,824.00
9 Unit Project
$202,302.00
10 Unit Project
$224,780.00
BELOW MARKET RATE HOUSING FEE
A fee in lieu of constructing affordable housing units onsite per Below Market Rate 
program:
262 of 311

--- page 263 ---
I
II
ANNUAL GENERAL FUND
ANNUAL OTHER FUNDS
New Fees
New Fees
Library - Device Cleaning Fee
1,000.00
$                     
Police - New FTE Outside Detail
Activity Unknown
Increase in Excess of CPI
Increase in Excess of CPI
Parks - Heritage Tree Permit
950.00
$                         
Golf - Sr. 10 Playcard Resident
4,000.00
                       
General Fund Total:
5,950.00
$                   
Other Funds Total:
-
$                        
SUMMARY OF FISCAL IMPACTS
263 of 311

--- page 264 ---
Proposed Fee
or Deposit
Cost Methodology
Annual Revenue 
Estimate
Library
Cleaning Fee for Devices
10.00
$                
Added to cover costs for cleaning heavily-
soiled technology lending devices before re-
circulating. Approximately 100 devices 
available in circulation.
1,000.00
$                 
Police
1. Outside Detail Rates
Category B
Vehicle Abatement Officer
51.20
$                   
Category C
Vehicle Abatement Officer
63.99
$                   
Estimated Annual Revenue:
1,000.00
$               
This is a newly adopted position 
classification for which outside detail rates 
should be added to the Fee Schedule. The fee 
is charged based on the salary schedule top 
step, and known, negotiated salary increases 
which will be effective July 1, 2020.
Item
SUMMARY OF NEW FEES:  2020-2021
Activity Unknown
264 of 311

--- page 265 ---
Item
Current Fee
Proposed Fee
or Deposit
Cost Methodology
Annual Revenue 
Estimate
Public Works
Transportation Improvement Fees
Residential
Single-Family
$4,367.44
$4,760.95
Multi-Family
$2,680.84
$2,922.38
Commercial and Industrial
Retail
$7,502.64
$8,187.63
Office
$4,008.90
$4,370.10
Industrial
$2,611.81
$2,847.13
Police
Outside Detail Rates 
-
-
Rates are charged per the salary schedule based on top step, and 
known negotiated salary increases which will be effective July 1, 
2020.
 Activity 
Unknown 
Parks & Recreation
Heritage Tree Permit
75.00
$                   
80.00
$             
Has not increased since the 2010-2011 Fee Schedule (6.67% 
Increase)
950.00
$                
Heritage Tree Replacement Deposit
425.00
$                
475.00
$          
Has not increased since the 2016-2017 Fee Schedule (11.76% 
Increase). This is a deposit in which most cases trees are 
replaced and the deposit is return upon replacement.
-
$                       
Sr 10 Playcard - Resident
27.50/250.00
260.00
$          
4,000.00
$             
Estimated Revenues:
4,950.00
$           
SUMMARY OF FEES IN EXCESS OF CPI:  2020-2021
 Activity 
Unknown 
A discounted rate for the advance purchase of 10 rounds of Golf.  
Incremental increase to remain in line with non-resident 
Playcard.
The current Transportation Improvement Fee (TIF) has an 
annual cost increase (escalator) based off the Engineering News 
Records (ENR) Construction Cost Index (CCI). Historically, the 
escalator is based on the national CCI average, which does not 
represent the real cost of constructing improvements in San 
Mateo. The cost increased here and moving forward will be 
based on the San Francisco Bay Area CCI which is a better 
representation of the true cost of construction in San Mateo. The 
CCI increase from the national average to the San Francisco Bay 
Area, represents a 9.01% increase for FY20-21.
265 of 311

--- page 266 ---
Department
Fee
Reason for Elimination/Reduction
Eliminated Fees
Library
II. Fees F. Passport Processing Services 8. Passport Photo
Service Eliminated
Library
II. Fees F. Passport Processing Services 9. Express Service 
to Processing Center a. USPS Express Mail
Removed dollar amount for fee due to frequent changes in postal 
rates.
Reduced Fees
Library
I. Fines A. Overdue Material 2. Juvenile Materials
Fee updated to reflect current fee for overdue juvenile materials per 
the Peninsula Library System consortium.
Parks & Recreation VII. Park and Landscape Resources B. Park in-lieu fee/Park 
Impact Fee
Fees are lower than the previous year due to a decrease in the 
reported cost per acre of land in San Mateo. As this is a major input 
in the calculation of the Park in-lieu fees, it has eventuated into 
lower fees for housing developments. The calculation is explained in 
the fee schedule.
Police
IX. Vehicle Releases A. Impounded/Stored Vehicle
Lowering of tow release administrative fee from $85 to $20, to be in 
alignment with the cost of processing a vehicle release.
SUMMARY OF ELIMINATED/REDUCED FEES:  2020-2021
266 of 311

--- page 267 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number: 10
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 20-2422
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
March 2, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU)/Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit (JADU) Ordinance Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Discuss changes to State law associated with ADU and JADU development and consider areas of regulation which remain 
under local agency discretion.  
BACKGROUND:
In recent years (2016 and 2017), the California legislature passed several reforms (AB 2299, SB 1069, and AB 2406) 
intended to reduce regulations related to ADUs and JADUs to spur construction of these types of dwellings, with the 
broader goal of helping address the state housing crisis. ADU’s are also known as second units, guest houses, casitas, 
“granny” units or in-law units.  
In the spring of 2019, the City did extensive outreach aimed at helping the San Mateo community talk more constructively 
about the shared challenge of housing.  The City hosted two events in conjunction with Home for All, a San Mateo County 
collaborative, aimed at creating an inclusive environment for community members to discuss and build a shared 
understanding of how housing challenges affect the entire community and to broaden participation in the discussion.  The 
City held two events, the first on April 27, 2019 and the second on May 18, 2019. The second conversation was built upon 
the feedback and input that was received from the first gathering. The need for more information and feasibility of ADUs 
and JADUs were voiced by the community during these community conversations, as well as during the City’s General Plan 
community workshops. Please see Attachment 1 and Attachment 2 for summaries of these community conversation 
events.
Additionally, the City Council, at its annual 2019-20 goal setting meeting, directed staff to study ADUs and JADUs with 
regard to the City’s current regulations and opportunities to streamline the permitting process. 
New ADU/JADU State Legislation
On January 1, 2020, six ADU and JADU related housing bills signed into law by Governor Newsom became effective. Three 
of the six Assembly and Senate Bills (AB 68, AB 881, and SB 13) took direct aim at easing local zoning controls, reducing 
associated development fees, and expediting permit processing associated with ADU and JADU development. The primary 
changes resulting from these bills are summarized below:
AB 68 & AB 881 (Overlapping bills):

Prohibits minimum lot size requirements for ADUs;

Prohibits the imposition of side and rear setbacks greater than 4-feet for an ADU;

Ensures by-right an ADU of at least 800 square feet, 16 feet in height with 4-foot side and rear setbacks;

Limits floor area ratio, lot coverage, and other zoning requirements as impediments to ADU development; 
267 of 311

--- page 268 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

Local agencies must ministerially approve a permit within 60 days of deeming application complete;

Prohibits requiring replacement parking for demolished or converted garages or parking structures (i.e. carports);

Allows a new or converted ADU in the same location and footprint as the existing accessory structure;

Multi-family buildings may add ADUs up to 25% of the existing unit count (or at least one) and up to two detached; 
and

Single-family zoned lots can be developed with a JADU and ADU in addition to the primary residence (effectively 
allowing three (3) separate living units on each parcel zoned for single-family).
SB 13:

Property owner no longer must occupy the primary dwelling or the ADU (remains requirement for JADUs);

No impact fees for ADUs less than 750 square feet; otherwise fees are proportional to the size of primary dwelling; 

Cannot require correction of non-conforming zoning conditions as condition of approval; and

Allows owner to delay enforcement of certain building standards up to five years for building requirements that do 
not violate the Health and Safety Code.
Remaining Areas of Discretion for Local Agencies
The new state legislation has expressly limited the ability of local agencies to regulate ADUs and JADUs. Local agencies that 
haven’t already adopted an ordinance compliant with Government Code Section 65852.2 are required to default to the 
standards specified in state law for permitting ADUs. As of January 1, 2020, any local ordinance that conflicts with the 
existing and updated requirements specified in state law is rendered null and void. Local agencies can simply default to the 
state regulations or elect to adopt by local ordinance more permissive requirements than specified by the state.
Given the sweeping changes the new legislation brings, San Mateo is left with only a few remaining areas of discretion. 
Staff describes those areas of discretion and provides recommendations for City Council consideration and direction to 
staff in the seven discussion points below:
Building Size Limitations
State law provides a property owner the right to construct an attached or detached ADU of at least 800 square feet in size, 
and of at least 16 feet in height with four-foot side and rear yard setbacks regardless of any local ordinance related to: 
minimum or maximum ADU size, proportionality to the proposed or existing primary dwelling, limits on lot coverage, floor 
area ratio, open space, or minimum lot size. This means a small 5,000 square-foot lot with a floor area ratio (FAR) of .50 
could have a maximum build-out of 3,300 square feet (2,500 square-foot house plus an 800 square-foot ADU), or .66 FAR 
as a result of this “by-right” provision. 
A local agency can establish by ordinance a maximum building size for attached or detached ADUs provided it is not less 
than 850 square feet for a studio or one bedroom, or 1,000 square feet for an ADU with two or more bedrooms. ADUs 
attached to an existing primary residence cannot exceed more than 50 percent of the existing primary dwelling’s floor 
area. Detached ADUs are permitted to be up to 1,200 square feet provided there is adequate floor area allowance on the 
lot. In specific scenarios when an existing or proposed single-family residence is being developed with both a JADU and a 
detached ADU, state regulations specify a local agency “may impose” conditions that limit that detached ADU to no more 
than 800 square feet in size and 16 feet in height. Should the aforementioned provisional conditions not be adopted, it 
would mean that a 5,000 square foot R1-C (single-family) lot has the potential to be developed with a 1,200 square-foot 
primary residence, of which 500 square-feet can be converted into a JADU, and up to a 1,200 square-foot detached ADU. 
Presuming the primary residence and ADU in this scenario are occupied by at least two to three adults in each dwelling, 
and one to two adults in the JADU, there is a realistic possibility of having at least five to eight adults with accompanying 
vehicles living on the same lot. 
Building Height
The new state law establishes that a local agency must allow a minimum building height of at least 16 feet for either an 
attached or detached ADU. It should be noted building height as defined in the municipal code is measured from existing 
grade to top of the building plate, rather than to the tallest roof ridge. Since ADUs can be created from conversions of 
268 of 311

--- page 269 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
existing accessory structures that sometimes may be built close to shared property lines (including no setbacks), the City 
may want to consider establishing ADU height restrictions or other objective standards to limit potential view and privacy 
impacts on neighboring properties given the new reduced side and rear yard setback requirements of four feet. 
Additionally, the City can consider whether to allow two-story detached ADUs as long as we allow a minimum height of 16 
feet.  
Parking Requirements
State requirements for off-street parking associated with ADU development has become increasingly lax with each update. 
State law specifies required off-street parking shall not exceed one parking space per ADU or per bedroom, whichever is 
less. However, a local agency can elect to reduce or eliminate parking requirements for any ADU located within its 
jurisdiction. It should be noted that state law now eliminates replacement parking when a garage or covered parking 
structure is demolished in conjunction with the construction of an ADU, or conversion of that parking structure into an 
ADU as was previously required. Additionally, Government Code Section 65852.2 (d)(1) exempts ADUs located within one-
half mile walking distance of any fixed-route bus stop or other transit stop from any imposed parking requirement. Given 
this exemption, the vast majority of residential zoned parcels in San Mateo would be exempt from providing the required 
off-street parking space due to the availability of public transit across the city. There is no parking requirement for JADUs. 
See Attachment 3 – Half-mile Walking Distance to Transit Proximity Map. 
Development/Impact Fees
SB 13 reduces impact fees associated with ADU development, and eliminates impact fees associated with JADU 
development, by creating a more equitable tiered fee structure that eliminates impact fees for ADUs less than 750 square 
feet and requires fees on larger ADUs to be charged proportionately in relation to the square footage of the primary 
dwelling. In order to charge proportional impact fees, the City would need to conduct a nexus fee study to determine the 
appropriate impact fee to charge for the ADU. In the absence of a fee nexus study, San Mateo does not currently apply 
traffic impact fees (TIF), park in-lieu fees, or water or sewer hook-up fees associated with ADU/JADU development.  The 
state Mitigation Fee Act requires that all new development pay its fair share so that the impacts of these ADUs on the 
need for public facilities (if any) will need to be studied.  If there are any unfunded impacts, other developments cannot be 
required to subsidize them and the City will need to make up the difference out of its General Fund. 
However, the City does charge a flat building permit fee of $2,819 for each ADU $1,275 for each JADU based on the actual 
cost of plan review and inspections. Should the City want to further incentivize ADU development, state law does not limit 
the authority of local agencies to adopt less restrictive requirements related to impact fees or project review fees. 
Objective Standards
Local agencies still have the limited ability to adopt objective standards as part of the ADU/JADU development 
requirements provided it does not conflict with state law. Examples of such objective development standards would be 
requiring matching exterior architectural materials and color patterns between the main house and the ADU, obscured 
glazing for windows along the side and rear facing elevations of two-story ADUs which are located within 20 feet of a 
neighboring dwelling on an abutting lot to ensure privacy, or requiring address markers for each ADU and JADU to be 
located along a street facing frontage for fire and safety purposes.
Prohibit Short-Term Rentals 
SB 13 prohibits short-term rentals (i.e. rental terms less than 30 days) of ADUs in the following scenarios: when an ADU is 
located within an existing or proposed single-family dwelling; when a city has adopted a condition that limits a detached 
ADU to 800 square feet when a JADU exists; or for ADUs in multi-family developments. However, state law does provide 
local agencies discretion to prohibit short-term rentals for all other ADU types (i.e. new or converted detached ADUs). The 
City may want to consider continuing the prohibition of short-term rentals for all ADUs, requiring the rental of an ADU be 
for a term longer than 30 days, as currently required in our local ordinance.  
Enforcement delay of existing unpermitted ADUs/JADUs
In addition to the waiver of impact fees, SB 13 also provides a provision where the property owner can request a five-year 
enforcement delay for unpermitted ADUs as long as the ADU meets health and safety standards. This statute is being 
269 of 311

--- page 270 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
interpreted as only applicable to violations of the building code (Title 23) and not to violations of the zoning code (Title 27). 
As of February 14, 2020, there are a total of 19 active cases for unpermitted ADUs in San Mateo. Fourteen (14) of these 
cases do not have health and safety concerns nor nonconforming zoning conditions, and therefore can be permitted or are 
eligible for the five-year deferral to bring the structure into building code compliance. Three (3) of the cases appear to 
have nonconforming zoning conditions such as setback or FAR violations but are otherwise also eligible for the code 
enforcement deferral. Two (2) of the cases have health and safety violations (e.g. no heat), but are eligible for the code 
enforcement deferral once the health and safety violations are resolved.  The City may want to consider provisions for 
permanent amnesty to allow the existing ADUs to remain in perpetuity, regardless of non-compliance to zoning and 
building code standards provided the ADUs meet health and safety considerations. 
Staff Efforts 
Staff recognizes informing and educating the public are fundamental components of encouraging ADU/JADU development.  
This was also provided as feedback from the Home for All Community Conversations.  Staff has been examining 
opportunities to incorporate new technology and refine processes to help make information and permitting more 
accessible and easier for homeowners. These efforts are classified into three general categories described below:
Technology
Staff has been working with Symbium, a company that develops software that makes it easier to visualize land use and 
zoning regulations. Staff is currently testing a beta version of Symbium’s BUILD for ADUs software specific to San Mateo. 
This is a highly intuitive web platform that provides interactive mapping and simplifies complicated regulations, including 
the state’s new ADU/JADU housing laws that will help citizens navigate the permitting process.  Once a new Ordinance is 
adopted, Symbium will update the application to meet San Mateo’s updated requirements. 
Information
Staff assessed existing ADU/JADU handout materials and related web pages to determine how the information could be 
more accessible and intuitively presented to the public. As a result, the previously separate ADU and JADU submittal 
checklists have been consolidated and combined with the standard building permit guide to provide an easy to read 
format of all the information necessary to submit a complete Building Permit application for an ADU or JADU in one 
document. 
Additionally, staff has refreshed its ADU/JADU one-stop webpage, which is now featured on the City’s homepage. The 
webpage summarizes key Planning, Building, Fire, and Public Works requirements associated with ADU/JADU 
development, as well as a property zoning look-up tool, development fees, and handout materials. 
Programs
Staff is looking into the possibility of developing innovative programs intended to provide homeowners a range of benefits, 
including expediting design and permitting timelines, and financial assistance for qualifying projects. The City may explore 
the possibility of working with architects and home builders on developing pre-approved ADU designs that meet general 
development standards and building code requirements. The pre-approved designs provide the homeowner with savings 
of both time and money by avoiding the sometimes lengthy plan review process and costs associated with architectural 
design and engineering drawings. 
The City may also study the feasibility of offering financial/funding assistance programs that would make building an ADU 
or JADU a more accessible option for homeowners, as well as a tool to add affordable housing stock in San Mateo. The City 
may study offering a fee waiver incentive whereby building permit and plan check fees (and other development impact 
fees) would be completely waived for units offering qualifying low-income households. The City may also investigate 
developing a loan program to qualifying residents that would help provide homeowners with necessary funding.
Upcoming 2020 State Law Changes
There are two bills that attempt to clean up some of the 2019 legislation (AB 953 and SB 773). As of February 6, 2020, the 
changes clarify that 1) if a jurisdiction has not acted on a completed application in 60 days, it is deemed approved; and 2) a 
homeowner can have both an ADU and a JADU under a wider range of special provisions. It also fixes a typo that said 
270 of 311

--- page 271 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
jurisdictions "may shall" approve multifamily ADUs, clarifying that jurisdictions shall approve them. Finally, it clarifies that 
the ADU rules are of state-wide concern. All of the other rules are unchanged.
Staff Recommendations for City Council
Staff will be preparing amendments to the Zoning Code consistent with the mandatory requirements of state law.  
However, as noted above, there remain some limited areas in which the City may exercise discretion in determining these 
requirements. Staff requests City Council direction on the following questions and options for Council’s consideration: 
1.
Should the City increase the exempted minimum “by-right” ADU square footage provision from 800 square feet 
up to 1,200 square feet? Staff recommends defaulting to the state specified “by-right” exemption of 800 square 
feet, or studying a tiered increase up to 1,200 square feet and limiting all ADUs to a maximum of two bedrooms. 
2.
Should the City limit the size of an ADU to 800 square feet when both an ADU and JADU would exist on the same 
lot? Staff recommends the City Council adopt this provisional condition to limit the size of ADUs on any single 
parcel that also has a JADU. 
3.
Should the City refer to the State statute for maximum building height of 16 feet, or study alternative building 
height restrictions or other objective standards? Staff recommends developing ADU building height maximums 
and objective standards compliant with the State requirements to help mitigate potential view, shade, and privacy 
impacts on neighboring properties. 
4.
Should the City consider amending the Zoning Code to accommodate more flexible off-street parking standards 
(i.e. wider driveways) for lots with an ADU or JADU? Staff recommends considering exemptions to parking 
requirements and front yard paving to account for additional parking needs associated with ADU/JADU 
development. 
5.
Should the City consider impact fees for ADU/JADU’s and conduct a nexus study? Given the limited scope of 
charging impact fees and the goal to further incentivize ADU/JADU construction, staff recommends codifying that 
no impact fees be charged for ADU’s, regardless of size, and continue to charge the flat fee building permit to 
cover the cost of plan review and inspections. 
6.
Should the City develop objective design standards for ADU/JADUs? Staff recommends that objective design 
standards related to architectural materials, reducing privacy impacts, and addressing fire and safety concerns be 
incorporated into the ADU/JADU Ordinance. 
7.
Does the City Council want to continue prohibiting short-term rentals for all ADU’s? Staff recommends continuing 
to prohibit short-term rentals by requiring the rental terms for all new or converted detached ADUs to be no less 
than 30 days as already required by local ordinance.
8.
Does the City Council want to consider provisions for permanent amnesty to allow existing illegal non-conforming 
ADU’s to remain in perpetuity? Staff recommends preparing provisions for permanent amnesty to allow the 
existing ADUs to remain in perpetuity, regardless of non-compliance to zoning and building code standards 
provided the ADUs meet health and safety considerations.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Costs associated with necessary Code amendments, including staff time and Symbium’s BUILD, are covered under the 
Community Development Department’s existing operating budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
271 of 311

--- page 272 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – April 27, 2019 Community Conversation 
Att 2 – May 18, 2019 Community Conversation 
Att 3 – Half-mile Walking Distance to Transit Proximity Map
Att 4 – Public Comments Received
STAFF CONTACT
Phillip Brennan, Associate Planner
pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7218
Kohar Kojayan, Community Development Director
kkojayan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7207
272 of 311

--- page 273 ---
1 
Highlights from San Mateo’s 
April 27, 2019 Community Conversation 
On April 27, 2019 over 120 community members, council members and planning commissioners came together at 
San Mateo High School for a discussion about housing in San Mateo. This community conversation was the first of 
two gatherings jointly planned and sponsored by the City of San Mateo, Common Knowledge, and Home for All, a 
community collaborative addressing housing challenges in San Mateo County.  
A key goal of these gatherings is to help create a shared 
understanding of how housing challenges affect the entire 
community. Feedback from these community conversations will also 
help inform the City’s ongoing work on policies and programs to 
address housing affordability and availability in San Mateo. In her 
opening remarks, Mayor Diane Papan explained the reason for the 
meeting is to help community members connect with each other in a 
welcoming environment, and have an open dialogue about the future 
of San Mateo. Two short presentations set the framework for 
facilitated discussions at 15 tables, some of which were facilitated in 
both English and Spanish. Spanish speakers received a warm welcome from bilingual staff at the beginning and 
listened to the presentations through an interpreter. Councilmembers, Planning Commissioners, and City staff 
attended as listeners.   
The meeting design was based on community engagement best practices, which Home for All is working to 
implement in San Mateo County. The City’s meeting also builds on several years of previous community input 
including the 2015 Housing Task Force and recent workshops on the General Plan 2040 update. A second 
273 of 311

--- page 274 ---
2 
community conversation on May 18 will build upon what 
community members shared both at the April 27 discussion 
and during listening sessions that occurred in the weeks 
leading up to the event.  
Prior to the April 27 meeting, City staff conducted extensive 
community outreach interviewing over 100 people 
throughout San Mateo, including people from diverse 
backgrounds and those who have not participated in previous 
conversations hosted by the City.  
Of the 109 discussion participants who attended on 
April 27, about 40 percent indicated they were new to 
City discussions and 40 percent had experience with 
housing-related policies and programs.  
During the outreach process, City staff interviewed 
community members at community events, train 
stations, recreation centers, eateries, fitness centers 
and the Main Library. They also connected with 
business representatives and employees who both lived in and outside of San Mateo. Conversations also occurred 
with representatives from school districts and neighborhood associations. In these listening sessions, the most 
prevalent concerns were related to the increasing cost of living in San Mateo, people’s inability to purchase 
homes, traffic impacts, seeing friends and families move away, and concern for being able to stay in the area over 
the long term.  
This meeting summary includes input from the following sources:  
• 
Perspectives and comments shared during the City’s multi-week outreach effort 
• 
Emails received prior to the meeting from people who could not attend 
• 
Table discussion notes from the 15 table facilitators 
• 
Individual input and feedback forms from 84 out of 109 discussion participants on April 27 
 
Presentation & Discussion #1:  
Hopes & Concerns for Housing in San Mateo 
City Housing Specialist Scott Prowse provided an opening presentation about the regional housing shortage facing 
San Mateo and all cities in San Mateo County. Attendees also heard background information on local 
demographics, including who lives or works in San Mateo, as well as the current housing supply. Participants then 
contributed to a first round of table discussions featuring these questions:  
 
1. How does the issue of housing affect you and the people you know in San Mateo? 
2. As we think about San Mateo’s future, what kind of community do you want to live in? Why is that 
important to you? 
 
The table discussions and report outs from table facilitators indicated a wide range of challenges associated with 
how housing affordability and availability is impacting the quality of life in San Mateo. Many also appreciated the 
City’s diversity, sense of community, thriving downtown, and proximity to services and recreation options. While 
Several of my family members 
have had to leave San Mateo 
because of the high cost of 
housing.  
”
 
274 of 311

--- page 275 ---
3 
highlighting a rich range of personal experiences, a common theme among report outs was a shared hope for 
sustaining the quality of life in San Mateo as the city grows.  
 
The following are highlights of participants’ comments and representative quotes:  
 
How housing is affecting San Mateo 
• 
Housing costs that are deeply affecting quality of life and wages are not keeping pace with the cost of 
living, especially for service workers and those making minimum wage  
• 
More affordable housing options are needed to accommodate all stages of life and all income levels  
• 
The need for infrastructure improvements (transportation, water, sewer, maintenance of existing 
housing) to accommodate a growing population  
o More public transportation options, including more frequency and capacity of transit  
o Concern for traffic and parking impacts stemming from higher density  
• 
Seeing friends and family move away  
• 
 “Lack of affordable housing is keeping our school district from attracting and retaining quality teachers, 
and this affects the quality and consistency of our students’ education” 
 
Hopes and concerns for the future of San Mateo  
• 
Sustaining and improving the existing quality of life, 
safety, and sense of community 
• 
Prioritize preventing displacement of those who 
presently live in San Mateo  
o Provide incentives for workers in San Mateo to 
qualify for subsidized housing  
• 
Maintaining the rich diversity of San Mateo 
• 
Designing a walkable community with plenty of 
transit options 
• 
Concern for the people who are forced to move 
away 
o Staff retention and high turnover for 
small businesses and schools  
o As children grow, they cannot afford to 
live here  
• 
Enthusiasm for a community with a mix of housing options that support housing for all stages of life, 
especially children and seniors aging in place 
Presentation & Discussion #2:  
Options to Help the Community Thrive 
The second presentation by San Mateo’s Housing Manager Sandra Council provided an overview of the values and 
guiding principles of the City’s work. She explained how these Community Conversations build on what was heard 
from the community about housing during recent General Plan workshops. Providing a diversity of housing types 
to meet the needs of all community members, maintaining neighborhood character and quality, and ensuring all 
new housing is developed sustainably were identified as guiding principles for housing development in San Mateo. 
Ways to address housing availability in San Mateo were also presented and included building transit-oriented 
development, redeveloping public-owned properties, collecting funds for affordable housing, and other 
strategies.  
A safe and calm community with 
sufficient opportunities, 
assistance, and education.  ”
275 of 311

--- page 276 ---
4 
 
During the second discussion, community participants were asked to consider these questions: 
 
1. Which of these housing options seem promising based on our community’s needs? Are any concerns 
coming up for you? 
2. How can our community work together to address our housing needs?  
 
The responses, summarized below, are helping to shape a second community conversation on May 18 that will 
offer the community an opportunity to further learn about and discuss potential housing options.    
 
Housing options favored to help meet community needs 
• 
More affordable housing options that accommodate all stages of life and all income levels  
o Increasing affordable housing requirements for developers (more than the current 10 percent) 
and increasing the availability of Below Market Rate units  
• 
Interest in exploring and implementing mixed-use development, housing near transit, additional dwelling 
units (ADUs), and shared housing 
 
• 
Providing opportunities to assist existing San Mateo residents to remain in our community 
• 
Smart growth with more public transit options and more open space for the community to connect  
• 
The need to assess parking and traffic issues associated with higher density and ADUs 
 
Working together to address housing needs 
• 
More resources and information on how to find affordable housing and the city’s current housing efforts 
• 
Hope for a coordinated, regional and long-term approach to close the jobs-housing imbalance while 
maintaining local control 
• 
Including large employers and businesses in finding solutions 
• 
Support for landlords to make improvements to maintain their properties without displacing renters 
• 
Continued discussions and events about housing to engage residents in understanding and providing 
input on potential solutions and to further broaden participation in these discussions 
• 
Working together as a community to seek solutions   
 
Everyone in San Mateo is encouraged to attend and help spread the word about the next Community 
Conversation on Saturday, May 18, 2019. The May 18 meeting will be designed so that new participants can easily 
join the conversation, while also building on the first meeting and work that has been done in the past.  
 
 
For more information, please contact the City’s Housing Division at housing@cityofsanmateo.org. We welcome 
your ideas about how to get more people engaged in this conversation. 
 
 
SAVE THE DATE 
 
 
 
 
 
        
Community Conversations: Housing in San Mateo 
Saturday, May 18  |  Hillsdale High School  |  3115 Del Monte St. 
9:00 a.m. Breakfast  |  9:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. Community Conversation 
276 of 311

--- page 277 ---
Highlights from San Mateo’s  
May 18, 2019 Community Conversation 
On May 18, 2019 over 90 community members, council members and planning commissioners came together 
at Hillsdale High School for a discussion about housing in San Mateo. This community conversation was the 
second of two gatherings jointly planned and sponsored by the City of San Mateo, Common Knowledge, and 
Home for All, a community collaborative addressing housing challenges in San Mateo County.  
A key goal of these gatherings was to help create a shared understanding of how housing challenges affect the 
entire community. Feedback from these dialogues will also help inform the City’s ongoing work on policies and 
programs to address housing affordability and availability in San Mateo. In her opening remarks, Mayor Diane 
Papan explained the reason for the meeting is to help community members connect with each other in a 
welcoming environment, and have an open dialogue about the future of San Mateo. Two short presentations 
set the framework for facilitated discussions at 10 tables, some of which were facilitated in both English and 
Spanish. A warm welcome from one of the Spanish-speaking facilitators was well-received, and Spanish 
interpretation of the presentations was available via headset. Councilmembers, Planning Commissioners, and 
City staff attended as listeners.   
The meeting design was based on community 
engagement best practices, which Home for All is working 
to implement in San Mateo County. The City also took 
community feedback from the first event on April 27 and 
made some changes to help improve the experience for 
attendees.  
 
Throughout this process, staff conducted extensive 
community outreach interviewing over 100 people 
throughout San Mateo, including people from diverse 
backgrounds and those who have not participated in previous conversations hosted by the City. 
277 of 311

--- page 278 ---
2 
 
 
During the outreach process, City staff 
interviewed community members at community 
events, train stations, recreation centers, eateries, 
fitness centers and the Main Library. They also 
connected with business representatives and 
employees who both lived in and outside of San 
Mateo. Conversations also occurred with 
representatives from school districts and 
neighborhood associations. In these listening 
sessions, the most prevalent concerns were 
related to the increasing cost of living in San 
Mateo, people’s inability to purchase homes, 
traffic impacts, seeing friends and families move 
away, and concern for being able to stay in the 
area over the long term. 
A key goal of this program was to engage people who 
don’t normally participate in housing discussions, and 
connect people with differing experiences and 
perspectives. Nearly 110 people participated in the 
April 27 discussion and May 18 connected about 70 
discussion participants. In feedback forms, most said before the event they were more likely to have spoken to 
people with a similar living situation than those who had different experiences. As a result of the event, the 
vast majority of people reported gaining new perspectives about other people who live or work in San Mateo 
and a better understanding of the community’s shared values and beliefs. People also said they wished there 
was more time to talk with one another.  
This meeting summary includes input from the following sources:  
• 
Perspectives and comments shared during the City’s multi-week outreach effort 
• 
Emails received prior to the meeting from people who could not attend 
• 
Main themes from facilitators’ table discussion notes. The complete notes are in Appendix 1.   
• 
Individual input and feedback forms from 57 out of 70 discussion participants on May 18. The responses,  
  
Presentation & Discussion #1:  
Short-Term Solutions to Help Renters, Landlords, Homeowners  
City staff gave an opening presentation that provided some data points on local demographics, including who 
lives and works in San Mateo. The presentation included information about various housing programs aimed at 
providing more immediate assistance to renters, landlords and homeowners. The presentation also revisited 
some of the themes that came from the first conversation and how the community’s feedback informed the 
discussion for this second event. Participants then contributed to a first round of facilitated table discussions 
featuring these questions:  
 
1. How can we work together to better support renters, landlords and homeowners?  
2. What other types of short-term assistance would be most helpful to people you know in the 
community?  
 
Always remember that quality of 
life in our city needs to be a 
starting place when considering 
development.  
”
278 of 311

--- page 279 ---
3 
 
The table discussions and report outs from facilitators 
represented a wide range of challenges associated with 
how housing affordability and availability is impacting 
the quality of life in San Mateo. Many participants 
supported the creation of more affordable housing, 
especially to support the most vulnerable populations 
including the homeless, elderly, and those with 
disabilities. There was also significant interest in keeping 
teachers, service workers, and first responders in the 
community with affordable housing options. Like the 
first meeting, attendees expressed considerable interest in streamlining the process for accessory dwelling 
units, making information and resources more accessible and easier to access for the community, and in 
shared housing.  
 
The following are highlights of participants’ comments and quotes:  
 
Supporting Landlords, Tenants, and Homeowners 
• 
There’s a need for more conversations and open communication between renters and landlords.  
o “Helping landlords understand renters and tenants struggles so they can empathize with these 
families who work tirelessly to keep a roof over their head.” 
o We should have “more dialogue, involve larger landlords in the discussions and solutions. Broader 
landlord participation in ‘self-policing’ the industry to address inequities in housing, ‘bad landlord’ 
practices, etc.” 
• 
Help homeowners be more aware of the resources for sharing a room or building a secondary unit  
o There’s strong support for streamlining the process for constructing accessory dwelling units 
o Many requested more information on home sharing and potentially creating a universal 
agreement or lease that could be used by community members 
• 
Many attendees at both conversations asked that resources for finding affordable housing be clearer and 
easier to find  
• 
Try to find ways to engage the business community in solutions and address the jobs-housing imbalance 
• 
There was concern amongst attendees that traffic is negatively affecting quality of life in San Mateo  
o Try to find ways to encourage alternative modes of transportation, that are safe and easy to use 
• 
Infrastructure was a theme of the conversation as well, with many expressing the need to upgrade schools, 
transportation, and social services to accommodate a growing population 
o “We should ensure infrastructure is growing along with housing growth. We should not be 
increasing housing until [the] corresponding infrastructure need is caught up.”  
o We need “more and better transit, improve service and frequency of Caltrain, safer bike 
lanes, Caltrains into downtown SF or BART further south on Peninsula, more investment in transit 
infrastructure.” 
 
Other Types of Short-Term Assistance 
• 
Attendees were supportive of financial assistance, particularly for seniors, for emergencies, relocation, and 
transportation 
• 
The need for more information on the fees and process for building an ADU was a theme in this part of the 
discussion as well 
• 
There was also some interest in outreach to landlords for accepting rent vouchers 
o “Assistance for seniors who are caught in the spaces between being able to retire but cannot 
because of cost of housing. Better landlord education and assistance to increase Section 8 voucher 
acceptance.”   
279 of 311

--- page 280 ---
4 
 
Presentation & Discussion #2:  
Additional information on long-term solutions 
The second presentation focused on longer-term solutions, including potential options as well as ongoing 
efforts the City has or will be implementing. Options to address housing availability in San Mateo included 
encouraging transit-oriented development, redeveloping publicly-owned properties, collecting funds for 
affordable housing, and other strategies.  
 
During the second discussion, community participants were asked to consider these questions: 
 
1. As the City moves forward with planning efforts, which options would best match San Mateo’s 
needs and community character?  
2. What questions, concerns and ideas do you have?  
3. What would you like to learn more about?  
 
The following are highlights of participants’ comments and quotes: 
 
Housing Options Favored to Help  
Meet Community Needs and Character 
• 
Participants were very interested in community 
character, particularly keeping the city from 
becoming “generic” and “impersonal” 
o “We want to keep [the] town feel, not 
change over to [an] impersonal city.”  
o “Maintaining the community of San 
Mateo. Make it so families can live, 
work, and learn here. Developing the 
city so commuting is easier. Making 
sure we are updating all systems if we 
make a shift in housing.”   
• 
Many were very interested in developments 
that have a mix of uses such as housing and 
retail, as well as building closer to transit 
• 
Many discussed walkability and a need to improve transportation infrastructure  
o “We all need to accept that the Peninsula will become more urban and less suburban. I want more 
walkability, more density, while still maintaining great schools and services. More mass transit and 
less emphasis on driving.”   
• 
Many favored ways to support those who live or work here, and preserving existing housing  
o “There needs to be focus on enabling people who live here to continue to live here or work here 
and want to live here. There needs to be more focus on expanding things like ADU and in helping 
the mom and pop landlords stay in business.” 
• 
There was support for increasing existing inclusionary zoning policies to require new developments include 
more affordable units, as well as increasing developer fees  
 
Questions, Concerns and Ideas 
• 
Many community members raised concerns around traffic, parking and a need to first improve 
transportation infrastructure  
• 
Some also questioned to what extent can the City grow 
”
There are creative ways to help 
alleviate our current problems.  
280 of 311

--- page 281 ---
5 
 
o “We must realize that no city can be everything to everyone. There is a natural and definite limit to 
how big we can be, how many we can house/employ.”   
• 
Many were concerned about providing housing options for the most vulnerable of our neighbors including 
children, seniors, and those with mental or physical disabilities  
• 
People expressed concerns about displacement as neighbors or friends move away 
 
General Takeaways from the Event 
• 
"Encouraged by the interest people showed and real solutions discussed.” 
• 
“These meetings are great for bringing people of great knowledge together. Have more of them.  
Education of the public is very important.” 
• 
“People are concerned and willing to work together.” 
• 
“The need to attend these types of meetings is critical to all groups of people living and working in San 
Mateo.” 
 
Next Steps for the City and Community 
• 
The City is working on streamlining the process for building an ADU. Information can be found online: 
www.cityofsanmateo.org/3907/Accessory-Dwelling-Unit-ADU 
• 
We created a Housing Resource Guide (English & Spanish,) which is available at City Hall and online 
• 
The Housing Division included a project and events section on its web page to help keep the community 
informed of housing-related items: www.cityofsanmateo.org/housing 
• 
Community members can stay informed by signing up for email updates, attending meetings, and 
continuing to share their input with the City on projects and programs 
• 
The community is strongly encouraged to engage in the General Plan 2040 Update process 
o The vision statement captures many of the ideas and comments expressed above: 
“Our Vision: San Mateo is a vibrant, livable, diverse, and healthy community that respects the 
quality of its neighborhoods, fosters a flourishing economy, is committed to equity, and is a leader 
in environmental sustainability.”  
o People can participate by attending meetings and sharing their thoughts online. Learn more at 
strivesanmateo.org 
 
For more information or if you have any questions, please contact the City’s Housing Division at 
housing@cityofsanmateo.org. We also welcome your ideas about how to get more people engaged. Please 
also visit the Housing Division website at www.cityofsanmateo.org/housing for a calendar of current housing 
projects and events. Reports and presentations from the May 18 and April 27, 2019 events are available online 
at www.cityofsanmateo.org/chathousing. 
 
FURTHER OPPORTUNITIES TO ENGAGE IN YOUR COMMUNITY
General Plan Update: StriveSanMateo.org  
Sign Up for Email Notifications:  
Visit: www.cityofsanmateo.org/chathousing 
281 of 311

--- page 282 ---
Appendix 1 
282 of 311

--- page 283 ---
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Questions:  
1. How can we work together to better support renters, landlords and homeowners? What 
other types of short-term assistance would be most helpful to people you know in the 
community? 
2. As the City moves forward with planning efforts, which options would best match San 
Mateo’s needs and community character? What questions, concerns and ideas do you 
have? What would you like to learn more about? 
 
Major Themes:  
• Many participants supported the creation of more affordable housing, especially to 
support populations such as seniors, homeless, teachers, first responders, people with 
disabilities, vulnerable populations, and others 
• There was a general interest in supporting more walkable neighborhoods with quality 
amenities 
• Many were also interested in improving the quality of transportation within and outside 
of San Mateo 
• Attitudes towards density were indecisive. Some were amendable to denser housing, 
but others were concerned about transportation and service impacts 
• There was a strong interest in easing ADU permitting and more options for financing 
• A need for improved public transit, subsidies to encourage ridership especially for 
seniors 
• Service and infrastructure improvements (including schools, water, sewer, 
transportation, childcare, etc.) to house a growing population  
• Interest in shared-housing and potentially developing joint agreements for renters and 
landlords  
• Increased communication about existing housing projects and those in the pipeline as 
well as housing resources for community members 
• Ideas on how to collaborate around housing included reactivating existing organizations 
like neighborhood associations, homeowner associations, and condominium 
associations 
• There is a strong interest in keeping teachers, service workers, disaster workers, etc. in 
the community 
• The community expressed the need for in continued inclusive discussions that diffuse 
tensions, bring landlords and renters to a shared understanding, and work together to 
find ways to address housing challenges in San Mateo 
 
San Mateo Home for All Community Conversation #2 
Table Discussion Themes 
May 18th, 2019 
 
283 of 311

--- page 284 ---
2 
 
Table Notes: 
 
Table 1 and 12: Melinda, Steve, Shira, Jean, Michael, Kary, Rhony  
 
Discussion #1 
• How can we work together to better support renters, landlords and homeowners?  
o Small landlord cooperation- different from large.  
o Neighborhood associations are reactive 
o Permanent (stable) affordable housing for disabled- creative financing. 
o Assist first time home buyers- rent eats savings 
o Keep stable population long term renters 
o Landlord inclusion= part of solution 
o Increasing security for renters- decrease fear of landlord retribution. Latino 
community wouldn’t come to this meeting.  
o Renter protections 
 
• Themes 
o Reactivate existing organizations like neighborhood associations, homeowner 
associations, condominium associations. Participation dropping off but structure 
still exists. 
o Creative financing, such as: 
▪ Permanent affordable housing for disabled (stability). Assist 1st time 
home buyers keep longtime residents and employees whose rent eats 
savings. 
 
Discussion #2 
• As the City moves forward with planning efforts, which options would best match San 
Mateo’s needs and community character? 
o Employee housing- for teachers, police, firemen. 
o Limit high density developments- congestion. 
o Incorporate housing for disabled- stable affordable 
o Shuttle bus- hop on, small bus 
o Neighborhood Paseos- creates unity/ common ground. 
• What questions, concerns and ideas do you have? What would you like to learn more 
about? 
o Land is key- nothing we can do about it being limited- no way we can reduce 
cost. 
o Quality of city is at stake 
o We don’t do urban planning well- stop building take a breath- fix what needs it 
now. 
o Make conversation inclusive going forward. 
o How to manage below market units 
284 of 311

--- page 285 ---
3 
 
o Prioritize affordable housing as land becomes available, but need to balance jobs 
and housing. 
o Want to learn more about shuttle bus, regional planning- not city by city- San 
Mateo can be catalyst for regional conversation. 
o More tolls to support housing.  
o Better transportation options. 
 
Table 2: Susan, Karen, Jordan, Peggy, Evelyn, Semantha, Molly 
 
Discussion #1 
• How can we work together to better support renters, landlords and homeowners?  
o Challenge of topography, require need to creatively provide accessible 
transportation to all people to stay in home (aging population) 
o Need to include the most in need of housing in discussions. Those living in autos, 
teachers, first responders. 
o Different levels of government charges make it difficult for multi-unit housing to 
keep rents affordable.  
o Different charges by different type of multifamily owners 
o Provide protections for those working with code enforcement, upgrades and 
improvement in property. 
o So confusing about how to build a granny unit- more clear as to how to add 
granny units sufficient to meet the need.  
o Education and case management for those seeking home.  
o Reducing stigma of homelessness. 
o Many housing agencies what fits for me to engage 
o Develop listening to fact others- develop how to be a good tenant. 
o Rehab program 
o Topography challenges- harder to walk to transportation modes that helps 
people stay as they can also help expand use of home. 
o Need to include those not housed- most in need. People living in cars, teachers, 
first responders, who are not in discussion- how to reach those not here/ low 
income as part of discussion. 
o Entry/level housing stigma/risk. 
o Protect existing housing. Code enforcement risk. Upgrades/ reducing expenses 
multi-unit government changes vs single family homes. 
o Scarcity- that impacts all- end up pushing out people with needs. 
 
Discussion #2 
• As the City moves forward with planning efforts, which options would best match San 
Mateo’s needs and community character? 
o Walkability 
o Duplexes and triplexes.  
o Parking issues- discuss. Long time stored autos, clean up our streets 
o Transparent for ADUs. Rules, how can owners understand rules. 
285 of 311

--- page 286 ---
4 
 
o Improve traffic flow and parking important. 
o Wait list full on coordinating housing process discouraging. Make it more easy to 
access housing help services. 
o Infrastructure- redo if increasing density, height/ working together. Working 
together on increasing infrastructure, transit oriented developments. 
o Continue the community discussions. 
o Education for tenants, new homeowners in how to be good renter, owner. 
o The need to include those who provide our amenities in housing. 
o Have the ability to live here if you work here 
o New options for those who want to stay 
o Better ratio of mixed use to balance more housing to jobs 
o More transitory develop open conversations between developers and 
community, what kind of rules and regulations can provide for transparency 
about limitations and possibilities. 
 
Table 3: Alicia, Valery, Linda, Asel, Liliana  
 
Discussion #1 
• How can we work together to better support renters, landlords and homeowners?  
o More affordable housing 
o Better transit options 
o More accessible transit. Need more parking at BART 
o Improved Caltrain stations 
o With higher density buildings, need to be thoughtful about parking/ BART 
o Sustainable infrastructure. 
o Schools need to be able to sustain population growth 
o Needs more parks/ recreation with growth 
o Police/ fire stations need to be able to sustain the population 
o Senior housing 
o Speedy permitting for in-law units 
o Gap is increasing between tech sector and non-tech sector 
o Adding social services 
o Housing help within social services 
o Children are the most affected 
o Services for service people who don’t make six figures 
o Must have affordable housing for families 
o Try to have a sustainable community where we are not losing neighbors and 
friends who are all moving due to costs 
o Want more inclusion between tech workers and other community members 
 
Discussion #2 
• As the City moves forward with planning efforts, which options would best match San 
Mateo’s needs and community character? 
o Great idea about employee housing! Expand this to other social service workers 
286 of 311

--- page 287 ---
5 
 
o Like that the tech industries are contributing 
o Would like to know more about co-housing 
o Love the shuttle idea 
o Need bus service to improve 
o More accessible for kids and seniors (public transit). Make it free. 
o School buses. 
o Kids/ senior citizens need to have freedom to move around. Should be free for 
them. 
o Subsidize housing by employers 
o More regulations on development 
o More people involved in decision making process 
o Like time idea of parks/ open spaces 
o Education system needs to improve 
o Would like to have teachers/ firemen living in the community 
 
Table 4: Louise, John, Rob, Lisa, Rosamana, Adam, Juliet 
 
Discussion #1 
• How can we work together to better support renters, landlords and homeowners?  
o Complex issue 
o Seniors are struggling. Tough to find a job. Capital gains tax. Feel stuck- family 
here. Financial support. Voucher- no one will take it. How do we make it more 
acceptable? 
o Traffic problems and infrastructure. Worry about earthquake and disaster. Ways 
to get through look at who workers here and doesn’t live. Faster way to get 
across San Mateo Bridge.  
o More conversations at landlords, tenants, and homeowners. Better 
understanding. 
o Young families moving out, breakdown of community. 
o More oversight of landlords and putting others at risk. 
o Need to keep economy moving in the right direction, improve lives of 
everybody/ level of stress. 
o Great neighborhood- mix of incomes. 
o ADUs- more flexibility. Get grandparents in 640 square feet. 
o What % of new buildings go to affordable housing? 
o Comfort zone of some people who have low income housing.  
o Homesharing- risks not working well- more flexibility. Very good solution, now 
wary a few bad experiences. Challenge of increase risk and cheap rents. Idea: net 
people who can afford to pay more. 
o Question: who is looking at the traffic. 
o Continue face to face meetings about these topics! 
 
Discussion #2 
287 of 311

--- page 288 ---
6 
 
• As the City moves forward with planning efforts, which options would best match San 
Mateo’s needs and community character? 
o Consider existing structure of the city. Some are served by transit, some are not. 
Still very car dependent. Should focus on the walkable areas- make it more 
vibrant (e.g. Bonn, Germany). Consider vibrancy, tax revenues, etc. 3rd, 4th 
avenues area, ½ miles around Cal train station. More things in the hub, barber, 
grocery store. Walkable greenery.  
o Could improve transportation- more affordable; problem with parking at the 
hospital. 
o Need to focus on west/ east- need shuttles! Have had limitations- need to offer 
more options. 
o Need to understand traffic impacts of current building. Need to trust those doing 
the studies. 
o Station Park Green- downstairs has been empty. Suspect rents and people want 
to drive lose another set of apartments. Need to develop “the right” housing. 
o Continue to give city planning input 
o Question: connections to state? For transportation support. 
o Affordability and quality of life. Raise funds through banks and companies- non-
profit purchasing buildings- there is a way the city could help facilitate- preserve 
stock, keep stock low priced. Some developers bring back tenants. 
o ADUs- need to really work with city! Need more feasibility. 
o Good development at Bay Meadows; need to focus on 25th and 36th/40th area. 
25th avenue is nail salons and restaurants, underutilized. 
o Need to create community. Too individual today! 
 
Table 5: Ben. Amourence, Susan, Loretta, Karim, Matt, Len 
 
Discussion #1 
• How can we work together to better support renters, landlords and homeowners?  
o Education to beget empathy, understanding each other. 
o Register to vote 
o First responders, teachers, employees, nurses can’t afford to live here. Housing 
insecurity, rent increases.  
o Long-term 
o Corporate ownership vs. individual owner ownership. 
o Low- income units disappear after 2-3 years to keep. 
o Service providers 
o Rent sustainability/ stability: inclusionary zoning, after sale of low-income units 
at market prices, monopolistic market setting 
o Looking for a place to live, affordable housing, inform wait listed. 
o “Fair Market Value”- Fair to who? It will take a different big picture perspective. 
o Sharing space vs. parking 
o Stockton’s universal income program 
o Form-based- higher density with different codes for cars 
288 of 311

--- page 289 ---
7 
 
o Permeant/ transferable inclusionary zoning. 
o Shared communal homes. 
o Denser homes. 
o Communication re: affordable housing wait-listed. 
o Anti-rent gouging 
o Voting- when move, check voter registration on new driver’s license.   
 
Discussion #2 
• As the City moves forward with planning efforts, which options would best match San 
Mateo’s needs and community character? 
o Vision-zero street design- ped/bike- health 
o Form-based codes 
o Ratio of apartments to homes 
o Corporate helping with infrastructure 
o Balance and growth- micro/tiny apartments 
o Fair housing 
o How much development is too much: clarity re: too much? 
o Balance neighborhood ID stability vs. jobs 
o Balance: rental vs. ownership 
o Raising inventory 
o Way of life- millennials, seniors, overlaps needs and interests 
o Dislocation of beds and jobs 
o Transportation. 
o Anxiety, pressure- divorce, suicide. 
o ADUs- transferrable, financing 
o Talent drain 
o Change Planning- R1: single family homes. 
o TOD, High Density, Mixed housing 
o ADU is a small part of the solution and they’re hard to finance. 
o Move away from LOS planning- less planning for cars 
o Vision zero (designing streets). 
o Form-based codes. 
o Urgency of housing because quality of life is going down. 
o When does development stop? What’s the proper ratio  of multifamily/ 
overpopulation/ jobs housing imbalance/ single family. 
o Corporations should help build public transportation 
o Reduce jobs/housing gap is the answer to above. 
o How are we going to grow more if we grow 
o Build for people not for profit 
o What are the benefits for the community with growth? 
o Need to preserve neighborhood identities 
o Need to housing investors 
o Needs of seniors are similar to needs of going working people. 
o THEMES: 
289 of 311

--- page 290 ---
8 
 
▪ Increasing inventory to increase affordable housing, balance jobs housing 
gap. Matching needs of community 
▪ Controlling growth: improve infrastructure, protect vulnerable 
populations. 
• ‘one word’ activity: 
o Happy- I want to continue to be engaged- love San Mateo! 
o Want to get more involved 
o Hopeful! 
o Informed 
o Shared community/bonding 
o Step in right direction but need action 
Table 7  
• Judy 
• Evelyn 
• Robert 
• Sue 
• Elida 
• Jose 
• Linda 
• Joshua 
 
Discussion #1 
• How we can work together to better support renters, landlords, and homeowners 
o Second units: ease requirements for second units as affordable housing: parking, 
tax credits, remove permit fees, zoning setbacks 
o Every human being should have a place to call home; as basic necessity as 
health care  
o Work with landlords and rental advocates on rent increases: rental increases 
without upgrades nor enough notice. Work with rental advocates for time, 
amount of increases up to 100%, more BMR units and income levels below VLI 
and market rate. Take into account renters’ incomes when raising rents.  
o More transparency on subsidized rental unit pricing  
•  Other types of short-term assistance that would be the most helpful to people you 
know in the community 
o More collective way to access/understand legal aid resources other than one on 
one appointments  
o Freelancers and entrepreneurs who can’t show steady income can’t qualify for 
rental applications  
o Compete with tech salaries and unbounded development for tech companies  
 
Discussion #2 
• Housing options that best match San Mateo’s needs and community character 
290 of 311

--- page 291 ---
9 
 
o Affordable housing: more AH required; 10-15% is not enough; ensure 
affordability for middle income. Connect rent rate to income. Allocation of units 
at income levels should be flipped to create incomes for the local rental rates.  
o Rent control: Craft a more palatable rent control law that protects landlords 
from losing all control over their property, and then protect tenants from 
egregious rent hikes and lower income requirements for renters.  
o Develop city owned land  
• Questions, concerns, and ideas 
o Recognition of historical sites and features to encourage unity, pride in city. 
Connection to community.  
o Density increase need to consider increased infrastructure costs, wear  
o Businesses along C-T corridor are small business owners and as those convert to 
residential those businesses may not have alternative options in the city (light 
industrial)  
o Parking along Caltrain inadequate and pushes cars to nearby neighborhoods; 
pushing toward permit parking  
o In lieu fees are too low. What is happening with those acquired, and how much 
does city currently have? 
• Options which you would like to learn more about 
o Transportation options needed for last mile  
 
 
Table 8  
• Thomas (SM 2005, on Peninsula, work in SF) 
• Ken (1983 in SM) 
• Marc (1987 in SM)  
• Linda (lived for 5 years in SM) 
• Laura (born and raised in SM, lived in SM since 2011) 
• Karen (in SM since 8th grade)  
 
Notes on attendees: two attended last meeting 
 
Discussion #1 
• How we can work together to better support renters, landlords, and homeowners 
o Work to understanding each other’s positions: homeowners and renters, 
building ADUs, homeowners and existing development  
o ADUs: want more information about maximizing own space. Need adequate 
rules on parking, respect, openness 
o Landlords and tenants: better understanding – streamlining information and 
requirements. Bring more people into the conversation to discuss; not everyone 
is represented. May be a good idea to convene an advisory committee.  
•  Other types of short-term assistance that would be the most helpful to people you 
know in the community 
291 of 311

--- page 292 ---
10 
 
o City develop a universal contract for room renting  
o Address communication problems with renting  
o Learn how to get more out of current housing: ADUs, renting rooms, shared 
housing  
o Plan for future – traffic, lack of diversity  
o Publicize information on the HEART foundation and HIP Housing, senior centers, 
and libraries  
o encourage people to work where they live  
 
Discussion #2 
• Housing options that best match San Mateo’s needs and community character 
o Rezoning large lots  
o Transit oriented development can triple housing and reduce traffic; incentivize 
employers to build on transit lines; offer more shuttles, bike shares, etc.  
o ADUs: share housing; use underutilized housing  
o Replace duplexes; use space to increase housing  
o City going in right direction but need to continue to research potential negative 
impacts  
o Incentivize employers to hire San Mateo residents  
• Questions, concerns, and ideas 
o Concerns with TOD: need higher affordable housing requirements  
o Need incentives for using public transportation; need traffic solutions along with 
housing development  
o What is the San Mateo community character? What is the vision? How does it 
influence the housing needs? Figuring out other revenue besides property tax  
o Be realistic about infrastructure; will more people use transit? Need to know 
actual impact; slow down development to be sure we can accommodate.  
o “Train is better than Bart”  
o Need to plan for change; learn from other cities and countries 
o Make investment in transportation  
o Make all city, state departments, etc. be responsible and accountable for the 
solution 
• Options which you would like to learn more about 
o Need regional approach for regional problem  
o These are all good problems  
 
One to three words to describe how you’re feeling 
• More engaged +1 
• More informed  
• Hopeful and excited 
• Motivated  
 
Table 9 
292 of 311

--- page 293 ---
11 
 
• Bill  
• Renee  
• Janice  
• Tom 
• Marisol  
• Susan  
 
Discussion #1 
• How we can work together to better support renters, landlords, and homeowners 
o Better marketing on HIP Housing; there are controls so folks are not taken 
advantage of  
o Increasing housing at all levels through zoning, TOD, assistance  
o Improve transportation: public transit needs to be more convenient, east west 
improvement, how to convince folks not to use car, not currently reliable  
•  Other types of short-term assistance that would be the most helpful to people you 
know in the community 
o Renter protections but encourage joint living agreement 
o Can’t build out unless you will live there 
 
Discussion #2 
• Housing options that best match San Mateo’s needs and community character 
o Inclusionary housing: talk more. Ensure better mix based on income and 
ethnicity, where to find public information about which projects are coming, 
what were the good/bad impacts of Bay Meadows development on transit and 
lessons learned 
• Questions, concerns, and ideas 
o Impacts on infrastructure and retail for new development  
o Better bike infrastructure protected  
o Transit-oriented development  
o Better coordination among regional transit authorities  
• Options which you would like to learn more about 
o Better PR on transit options  
o Better trip planners 
o East west transit fixes 
o More mixed used especially in downtown  
o Need to maintain community character and history  
 
Table 10  
 
Discussion #1 
• How we can work together to better support renters, landlords, and homeowners 
o  
293 of 311

--- page 294 ---
12 
 
•  Other types of short-term assistance that would be the most helpful to people you 
know in the community 
o  
 
Discussion #2 
• Housing options that best match San Mateo’s needs and community character 
o  
• Questions, concerns, and ideas 
o Density: yes/no, for/against  
o Tall buildings  
o Teach Spanish  
o Incentives to landlords  
o Gold rush versus planning  
o Money is highly valued – highest value 
o Change the value system 
o High density – mixed use  
o Bike share on El Camino – really?  
o What’s affordable to ordinary folks 
o Linkage fees  
o Jobs/housing inbalance  
o Too much local government; need for regional planning 
o Unsatisfactory transit schedule  
o Private bus (“Google busses”) not democratic; clutters roads and doesn’t serve 
the public  
o Achieve consensus  
o Good outreach for this meeting  
• Options which you would like to learn more about 
 
 
Table 13 
• Diarizu  
• Brian  
• Betty 
• Tina 
• Annie 
• Alejandra 
 
Discussion #1 
• How we can work together to better support renters, landlords, and homeowners 
o Permitting for repairs shouldn’t be so expensive; we need to have competent 
inspectors  
o Parking requirements for ADUs should be dropped  
o Should be easier to build ADUs  
294 of 311

--- page 295 ---
13 
 
•  Other types of short-term assistance that would be the most helpful to people you 
know in the community 
o Find better/easier ways to find people to move in with seniors; addressing 
intergenerational differences around finding roommates. Increase trust in the 
process.  
o People on fixed income need protection from rent increases  
 
Discussion #2 
• Housing options that best match San Mateo’s needs and community character 
o House sharing to take advantage of the underused we have now; educate  
• Questions, concerns, and ideas 
o Concern about state taking over areas near transit  
o Relaxing permitting  
o More flexibility on height limits and higher density in certain areas, like 
downtown and new transit  
o Concern about encroaching on open space  
o Tiny houses as ADUs  
o More mixed use, especially in downtown and near transit; live-work units  
o How to other countries/cities solve these problems?  
o What is the state trying to do?  
• Options which you would like to learn more about 
o How to take advantage of now empty spaces that used to be shops/shops that 
we are going to close 
o Concern/opportunity with the need for caretakers for an aging population 
o Empty strip malls/offices to housing? Change zoning!  
295 of 311

--- page 296 ---
I2
I2
I2
I2
I2
San F
ranci
sco
Bay
£
¤
101
£
¤
101
!"#$
280
£
¤
 92 
·|}þ
 82 
£
¤
 82 
·|}þ
 92 
El Camino Real
El Camino Real
£
¤
101
!1
!1
!1
!2
!3
!4
!5
!6
!7
!8
!9
!
10
Burlingame
San Mateo
Hayward Park
Hillsdale
(Future)
Belmont
Sources: Esri, HERE, Garmin, USGS, Intermap, INCREMENT P, NRCan, Esri Japan, METI, Esri China (Hong Kong), Esri Korea, Esri (Thailand), NGCC, (c) OpenStreetMap contributors, and the GIS User Community
Source data: City of San Mateo, 2019; San Mateo County, 2018; Esri, 2019; PlaceWorks, 2019.
HALF-MILE WALKING DISTANCE TO TRANSIT PROXIMITY MAP
0
1
0.5
Miles
Legend
Bus Stop
I2
Caltrain Station
Half Mile Walking Buffer
µ
296 of 311

--- page 297 ---
This “existing bedroom” clause makes it painful for modification of floor space to create ADU while simultaneously making bedroom.  It now requires two separate 
permitting steps which adds to confusion and cost.  Allow people to present one plan that covers both remodel (of existing internal space) and Junior ADU plan at the same 
time.  I personally got burned by this because I thought we had all of our issues resolved to allow for a full ADU once the parking issue was resolved.  But, then when I went to 
get the ADU conversion started, I discovered that you have to have fire walls between ADU and main residence and that no internal passage door was allowed.  This was not 
obvious from the ADU ordinance.  This pushed me back to the JADU, but now I am getting burned by the kitchen micro-definition requirements.
This 500 foot limitation is already very limiting and truly eliminates the need for the ordinance to further micro-define the kitchen size later on.  Every layout is different.  
After allowing for a small sleeping quarter, bathroom, and living area, the size of the kitchen is already small.  There is no need to further put 6’ limitations on it.   Please 
see my explanation for kitchen limitation on next page.
Patio door solution (double 24” door = 48” total)?
Sections (g) and (h)  need addressing.  Please 
see next page.  As written, these sections are 
problematic for somebody trying to create a 
useful living space.
JADU Ordinance (27.19.110) feedback from Shawn Fahrenbruch, 625 Parrott Drive 
1
297 of 311

--- page 298 ---
Description of kitchen limitations issues:
1.)  SINK SIZE:  A 16” sink is going to be 13-14” wide at the bottom.  This really is not even big enough to wash a frying pan without scratching finish from sides of 
sink.  Regardless of whether it is a 16” or 20” sink, they both are going to require a 24” wide base cabinet unit to hold them. The water/sewer usage is no 
different whether it is a 16” or 20” sink.  In fact, it might actually be less with a 20” sink because you can now was a frying pan flat as opposed to pan tilted with 
water continually running.  When I told my mother that she could only have a 16” sink, her reaction was not good. 
I propose letting the 500’ limitation of the JADU ordinance dictate the size of the sink.  Don’t dictate the sink size requirement.
2.)  REFRIDGERATOR SIZE:  Every situation is different.  In practice, trying to fit a fridge into the 500’ JADU is going to be challenging.  The ordinance allows for a 
smaller fridge or half-size fridge.  I was targeting a 24” wide fridge.  But, when I showed this to my 80 year old mother, she complained.  She would like to have a 
25”-26” fridge.  A standard fridge is 30” wide.  The electricity usage is not appreciably different for efficient refrigerators. As this is a appliance that is easily 
removable, this is not an enforceable item anyway.  People will simply purchase a cheap fridge that satisfies this code and then replace it with something 
functional later once the JADU is signed off.  In my case, I am driven to a smaller fridge by size constraints.  But, please remove the language that states how big 
the fridge can be.
I propose letting the 500’ limitation of the JADU ordinance dictate the size of the refrigerator.  Don’t dictate the fridge size requirement.
3.)  COUNTER TOP AND CABINETS:  The 6’ limitation on counter top and cabinet storage serves no purpose.  But even if a limitation did serve a purpose, I need 
to point out that different configurations need different requirements for functional usage.  Consider the following:
I.
A sink (16” or 20”) requires a 24” base cabinet unit.
II.
In a small apartment, finding a place for a kitchen trash can and recycling is problematic.  A convenient solution is a 18” wide base cabinet that can 
hide both the trash and recycling baskets.
III.
Cabinets on the end near a wall need to be offset by 3” to allow for the swing of the cabinet doors.  
IV.
If countertop is not a straight line, but rather has a corner, then each cabinet at the corner needs to be offset by 3” to prevent cabinet door 
handles from hitting other cabinet when opening.
So, before we have any storage for pots/pans in the allotted 72”, we have already lost 24”+18”+3”+3”+3”+3” = 54”.  This only allows 18” for actual storage of 
pots and pans.  But a 18” cabinet only has a 15-16” opening.  This is very limiting.  Additionally, it is not even clear what the definition of counter space is.  Is the 
sink and stove considered part of the space?  If the counter top is mixed use, how is it considered?  For example, if the right side of the counter space is used for 
office/study requirements, how do you delineate the definition of space?  In a 500’ space, this counter top might serve dual purposes and it might not be 
practical to have two different counter tops or an additional desk.  Keep in mind that the main applicants for JADU units are going to be elderly parents.  Please 
do not relegate them to second rate citizens by forcing them to have a toy kitchen.
I propose letting the 500’ limitation of the JADU ordinance dictate the size of the food preparation and cabinet space.  Don’t dictate the kitchen 
size requirement, the food preparation size requirement, or the cabinet size requirement.  It is just going to be an endless parade of JADU applicants 
arguing with planning staff over the definition and requirements of the kitchen per code interpretation.  This is not an efficient use of staff time.  The 
500’ limitation is already self-limiting enough after you add in the sleeping area, the bathroom, the clothing storage, and the living area.  If 
somebody really has a strong opinion that a kitchen size MUST be micro-defined, please allow for 6’ AFTER inclusion of sink’s base cabinet, trash 
base cabinet, and 4(each) times 3” for cabinet door opening clearance to walls/corners.  Let the counter top be dictated by base cabinet length.  But 
then add in allowance for the cooktop.  This gets complicated quick.  My recommendation is JUST DON’T DEFINE IT.  Simply let the 500’ limitation of 
the JADU be the limit.
2
298 of 311

--- page 299 ---
Description kitchen limitation issues:
4.)  MICROWAVE:  The JADU ordinance as written explicitly prohibits inclusion of a microwave.  This makes no sense at all.  This is the most 
efficient means of preparing food that I can possibly imagine.
I propose striking the language that prohibits microwave ovens in the JADU. 
5.)  COOKTOP:  The JADU language limiting cooktops to 120 volts was most likely inherited from the state law.  However, if as a city we have 
the flexibility to be less restrictive, I would encourage this law to favor 240 volts instead of 110 volts because it 240 volt cooktops are more 
efficient and there are far more 220 volt cooktops available on the market than 110 volt cooktops.  If the intention was to drive people to use 
hot-plates rather than fixed appliances, this is absolutely crazy because hot plates are more dangerous than fixed appliances.  
(If you are wondering why a 220 volt cooktop is more efficient than a 110 volt cooktop, allow me to diverge and explain.  Assuming both cooktops deliver the same 
power (1.2kW=120 volts * 10 amps)  (1.2kW = 240 volts * 5 amps).  But the wires carrying the current are made of copper.  The copper wire heats up as more 
current is carried through it.  As the copper wire heats up, it becomes more resistive.  As it gets more resistive, it wastes more power while delivering energy to 
the load.  This is why your interstate power transmission lines are at extremely high voltage (+100kV) instead of the 120 volts that is delivered to your home –
sorry for the diatribe.  As an electrical engineer, I found it odd that somebody would think that a 110/120 volt cooktop made sense).
I propose that if the state law gives the city flexibility to be less restrictive in the legal language such that a 240 volt cooktop can 
be allowed, it should be allowed in the JADU.  It is more efficient.  Please do not limit us to hot plates.  This is a scary proposition 
if you have an elderly parent living in your JADU.
Description Other issues:
6.)  It is nice that the ordinance allows for an existing bedroom to be converted to a JADU.  However, in some cases, the house 
might be big enough to allow for a family room to be converted to a JADU while simultaneously creating a bedroom from existing 
internal space.  To minimize mistakes during the planning process, there should be an allowance for a JADU to be created in the 
same permit as the bedroom.  This is the situation that I have and I have already made costly mistakes due to the confusion of the 
two separate permitting actions.
7.)  One member of the planning staff informed me that the exterior door of the JADU must be a door of width 36” (it might have 
been 32”).  The solution that I presently have is two doors each 24” wide, that open to a total of 48”.  This patio door solution is 
apparently not sufficient as an external door for the JADU.  This is a minor complaint, but why can a JADU’s exterior door 
(opening into back yard with a walkway to front driveway) be a patio door solution as described?  This item about the door is not 
the main focus of the JADU ordinance’s that I am trying to communicate.  It is just a clarification that I would like to have so I can 
save a few thousand dollars.
3
299 of 311

--- page 300 ---
From:
shawn fahrenbruch.net
To:
Phillip Brennan
Subject:
Re: Updated ADU/JADU ordinances
Date:
Tuesday, January 07, 2020 12:00:00 PM
Hi Phillip, thanks for the update.  What implication does this have for the 6’ maximum counter space and cabinet
space?  Is that restriction now also removed?
Shawn
-shawn (sent from iPhone with tiny keypad. Please forgive typos that slip through. )
From: Phillip Brennan <pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org>
Sent: Tuesday, January 7, 2020 11:11:33 AM
To: shawn fahrenbruch.net <shawn@fahrenbruch.net>
Subject: re: Updated ADU/JADU ordinances
 
Hello Mr. Fahrenbruch:
 
I wanted to follow-up with you and share our summary of the new state mandated ADU/JADU requirements. Since our
local ordinance now conflicts with the state ordinance, we are required to default to the state’s requirements (as of
1/1/2020). We will be doing an ordinance update to clarify and clean up our local regulations, but that will be at a date
TBD. Please note the new state law removes the 120 volt limitation and 1.5 inch wasteline diameter maximum.
 
Please feel free to contact me should you have any questions.
 
Best-
Phillip B.
 
 
 
Phillip Brennan | Associate Planner
Community Development Department | Planning Division
330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7218| pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org
www.cityofsanmateo.org/planning
 
 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended
only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential
and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any
dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this
message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this
message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.
300 of 311

--- page 301 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 20-0013
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
March 02, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Local Historic Markers in the Public Right-of-Way – Policy Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the proposed Council Policy on Local Historic Markers in the Public Right of Way, provide 
feedback on the preferred prototype design, and consider the City of San Mateo Parks and Recreation Foundation’s 
proposal to commemorate Ching Lee Laundry.
BACKGROUND:
The City has been approached with a proposal to install a marker commemorating the former Ching Lee Laundry in the 
public right-of-way at First Avenue and Claremont Street. While considering the recent proposal, staff determined the City 
does not have a clear process in place and requests City Council adopt a policy to formalize the process for approving 
historic markers in the public right of way. 
Proposed Policy
The City has an interest in acknowledging and commemorating San Mateo’s culture and history by recognizing places of 
significant public interest. Historic marker programs are designed to be selective and based upon objective criteria, while 
still allowing a measure of flexibility. A local policy would provide guidelines to assist Council in deciding what markers are 
installed in the public right of way. Approved markers should generally be funded privately through donations; however, 
the Council may decide to commit public funds. Once installed, the markers would become property of the City and the 
City would be responsible for any maintenance.
The proposed historic marker policy covers markers in the public right of way, such as on streets or sidewalks. This policy 
does not affect art installations or markers in City parks, on City buildings, or on private property. Whenever feasible, 
those interested in commemorating a site of historical significance are encouraged to install a marker within the property 
being recognized and not within the public right of way. Markers affixed directly to a building are covered under the City’s 
sign ordinance. The policy outlines an approval process, evaluation criteria, and a preferred design prototype for all 
markers proposed in the public right of way.
Approval Process: 
Individuals or organizations may apply to install a marker in the public right-of-way and will work with City staff to ensure 
it complies with Council policy. The Council would consider proposals during a public meeting before voting on whether to 
approve a marker in the public right of way. 
Evaluation Criteria: 
Proposals must meet five qualifying criteria including: 
(1) The site is a place of public interest or represents a person or organization whose contributions were significant to 
301 of 311

--- page 302 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
San Mateo’s heritage.
(2) The site is not currently marked and would likely not be eligible for the state or national registry. 
(3) The proposed marker is within the public right-of-way controlled by the City. 
(4) The marker is within public view and its placement conforms with the Americans with Disability Act standards. 
(5) The marker is privately funded or the Council is willing to commit public funds.
Regarding the first qualifying criteria, Council is asked to provide direction on whether to include requirements that 
recognition of an individual should be done posthumously.  
Preferred Design and Location:
Council is asked to provide direction on whether to require markers be of a similar general size and design. As these 
markers would be located in the public right-of-way and become property of the City, safety and maintenance are 
important issues for consideration. 
Staff has researched historic markers installations in other communities and has identified the following prototype 
options:
(1) Installed: in-ground and flush with the street/sidewalk. Material: cast or etched metal
(2) Installed: above ground in a standalone frame. Material: porcelain enamel on steel affixed in a metal frame
(3) Installed: above ground affixed to a City-owned pole. Material: cast/etched metal or enamel on steel 
Representative illustrations of these prototype options are included as Attachment 2 to this report. Staff recommends the 
in-ground option as the preferred prototype as it won’t impact site distance for traffic, preserves existing pedestrian 
access, and is less likely to interfere with ADA compliance. In-ground markers are less likely to be struck or damaged by 
bicyclists or vehicles. The in-ground markers may require more time to install and tend to be slightly more costly to 
manufacture than the enamel on steel options; however, they are expected to be easier to maintain in the long term and 
less prone to graffiti. Staff estimates that the in-ground marker option will cost roughly $3,500 to install.
Site conditions are expected to vary by proposal, and Council may at its discretion approve an alternative design or format. 
In general, the City encourages markers be installed within private property to minimize conflicts with the active use of 
public spaces. 
Ching Lee Laundry Proposal
The City has been approached by Fred Hansson on behalf of the nonprofit Parks Foundation with a proposal to install a 
historic marker commemorating the former Ching Lee Laundry. The business opened in 1876 and was considered the 
oldest Chinese laundry in the United States when it closed in late 2016. The business and surrounding area served as an 
informal Chinatown and hub of the immigrant community before World War II. The business is considered a testament to 
Chinese immigrants overcoming alienation, poverty, segregation, discrimination, and bigotry to become Americans.
The proposal is to install a marker near the former laundry building at 420 First Avenue. Mr. Hansson has proposed an 
above-ground marker made of porcelain enamel on steel affixed to a standalone metal frame, which is in the style of 
second prototype option. As the future of the former laundry building is unclear, the proposal is to locate the marker 
across the street on the northwest corner of First Avenue and Claremont Street. The site overlooks the laundry building, 
and the proposal is to install the marker in a brick bulb-out area at the intersection in front of 461 First Avenue. 
The foundation has raised approximately $3,000 in private donations toward the Ching Lee Laundry marker. The proposal 
is to use a company that manufacturers enamel on steel markers and has worked on installations in Golden Gate Park. The 
plaque would be 36 inches by 24 inches, with porcelain enamel printed on 16-guage steel. The proposal includes about 
three paragraphs of text, and several images. A preliminary mock-up of the marker is included as Attachment 3 to this 
report. Mr. Hansson feels this design would provide a more comprehensive picture of the site’s historical significance. 
These interpretive panel style markers are expected to be slightly less costly than the in-ground bronze casted plaques. 
Mr. Hansson has expressed a willingness to look at other nearby sites if needed for feasibility, but feels this area is ideal 
based on its proximity to the former laundry and downtown.
302 of 311

--- page 303 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Staff have raised safety and maintenance concerns about the proposed location being at an intersection where an above-
ground marker is more likely to interfere with site distance, pedestrian flow, and has a greater risk of being damaged by a 
turning vehicle. Staff is also concerned about the area having brick pavers and recommends markers be installed in a 
section of sidewalk or street that can be more easily cut and re-poured with concrete. An in-ground marker is also less 
likely to interfere with ADA compliance. 
The Parks Foundation has expressed an interest in this marker being the first in a plan to create an “urban trail” as a way to 
connect the City’s numerous parks. Markers would be located along the route – primarily in parks – informing readers 
about some of the unique aspects of the area. The foundation has secured donations to fund the manufacturing cost of 
the Ching Lee Laundry marker and if approved, would use this as an example for future fundraising efforts. 
Questions for Council Consideration

Does the Council support adopting a policy governing Historic Markers in the Public Right-of-Way?

Should the policy include that markers commemorating an individual only be made posthumously? 

Does Council have a preferred prototype to include in the policy?

Does Council support the City taking on the responsibility to install and maintain these markers?

Does the Council support a historic marker to commemorate the former site of the Ching Lee Laundry?

Does Council wish to approve the proposed Ching Lee Laundry marker in its current design? 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Policy adoption does not result in any specific budget impacts. Approval of a marker would not require the City to cover 
the cost of installation, estimated to be $3,500 per marker, unless Council chose to commit public funds for this purpose.  
After installation, the City would be required to maintain the markers, which is not expected to have a significant fiscal 
impact. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Adoption of the proposed policy is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an administrative activity that will not 
impact the environment.  Selection of a proposed prototype and approval of the proposed Ching Lee Laundry market 
installation  are categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of a minor alteration to 
existing City right of way. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution 
Att 2 – Prototype Design Options
Att 3 – Preliminary Ching Lee Laundry Marker Proposal 
STAFF CONTACT
Samantha Weigel, Communications and Public Relations Analyst 
sweigel@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7005
303 of 311

--- page 304 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2020)
APPROVING SAN MATEO CITY COUNCIL POLICY ON HISTORIC MARKERS IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
WHEREAS, the City Council has an interest in acknowledging and commemorating San Mateo’s culture 
and history by recognizing places of significant public interest; and
WHEREAS, historic marker programs are designed to be selective and based upon objective criteria, 
while still allowing a measure of flexibility; and
WHEREAS, the City Council guidelines will be amended to include the Council is responsible for 
considering historic markers in the public right of way, including the selection of marker recipients; and 
WHEREAS, in accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5), approval of this policy is exempt 
from CEQA as an administrative activity that will not impact the environment;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
THAT:
1. The attached San Mateo City Council Policy on Historic Markers in the Public Right of Way is 
approved.
304 of 311

--- page 305 ---
San Mateo City Council Policy on
Historic Markers in the Public Right of Way
Approved by the San Mateo City Council on _____, 2020.
Introduction
The San Mateo City Council is responsible for considering historic markers in the public right of way, including 
the selection of marker recipients. To facilitate the process, the Council follows the following policy.
Policy
The City Council has an interest in acknowledging and commemorating San Mateo’s culture and history by 
recognizing places of significant public interest.  Historic marker programs are designed to be selective and 
based upon objective criteria, while still allowing a measure of flexibility.
A. Evaluation Criteria
The City Council will review all complete applications and allow an applicant to make a presentation 
at a regularly scheduled meeting.
Qualifying Criteria (All applications must meet all five of the following):
1.
Site is one of the following:
i.
A place of public interest, such as a historic property, area of cultural significance, or 
location of a historically significant event. 
ii.
Represents an organization or person whose contributions were significant to the 
historical heritage of San Mateo. Recognition of an individual must be posthumous.
2.
Site is not currently marked by any other marker or any other program, either public or private. 
Site would probably not be eligible for the state or national registry.
3.
Proposed marker location is to be in the City’s public right of way. If in the State right of way, the 
State’s approval will be required before installation.
4.
Proposed marker must be in public view and comply with the Americans with Disability Act 
standards.
5.
Is privately funded or the Council is willing to commit public funds contingent on availability. 
B.
Inscriptions and Design
All final marker designs will be reviewed and considered by Council for approval. City staff will work with 
the applicant on the proposed draft inscription and design to ensure significant information has been 
included and that it complies with Council’s policy. The inscriptions should not editorialize or speculate; 
and shall only include widely-acknowledged historical facts. Additionally, space limitations due to the 
size and configuration of the markers require concise statements. Appropriate images or graphics may 
be included. 
C.
Marker Format
Each marker will be of the same general size and design, unless otherwise determined by the Council.
The selected prototype is: 
Installed: in-ground and flush with the street/sidewalk. Material: cast or etched metal
D. Approval Process
305 of 311

--- page 306 ---
1.
Sponsors must submit a completed City of San Mateo Historical Marker application to the City 
Manager’s Office. City staff will work with the applicant to ensure the proposed marker is 
in conformance with the Council’s policy. Applicant must provide estimated costs for 
manufacturing and installation of marker, and information on how it will be funded.
2.
The City Council will consider the application during a regularly scheduled meeting and sponsors 
may make a 5-minute presentation. 
3.
A simple majority approval by Council resolution is required to approve a marker. 
F.
Location
Markers considered under this policy will be installed within the City of San Mateo public right-of-way in 
the general area of the selected site as feasible. The marker does not interfere with compliance with the 
Americans with Disability Act.  
G. Property and Maintenance 
Upon installation, a marker in the City of San Mateo public right-of-way immediately becomes property 
of the City. The City will be responsible for overseeing the installation and reasonable maintenance of 
the marker. The City Council reserves the right to remove or relocate any marker approved under this 
policy at its sole discretion. 
H. Replacement Markers
If a publicly-funded marker is damaged and must be repaired or replaced, the appropriate governmental 
agency may purchase a replacement marker contingent on funding availability. Replacement costs and 
associated fees for privately-funded markers that have been damaged are the responsibility of the 
applicant. Damaged markers should be repaired or replaced within 120 days of the responsible party 
being notified. All reinstallations or repairs will be managed by City staff.
306 of 311

--- page 307 ---
Historic Marker Prototype Design Examples
(1) In-ground and flush with the street/sidewalk. Material: cast or etched metal
307 of 311

--- page 308 ---
Historic Marker Prototype Design Examples
(2) Above Ground: porcelain enamel on steel affixed in a standalone frame
308 of 311

--- page 309 ---
Historic Marker Prototype Design Examples
(3) Above ground affixed to a City-owned pole. Material: cast/etched metal or enamel on 
steel 
309 of 311

--- page 310 ---
Ching Lee Laundry

Long History

It was an entirely different era when Ching
Lee Laundry opened in 1876, a time when
Chinese immigrants were excluded from
virtually everything. Tens of thousands of
Chinese had already migrated to California
by that time; the Yee family settled in San
Mateo — when the population was just 932,
a village, not yet a formal city.

fies rrr aa i

au |
San Mateo'’s Chinese community probably F lat!
started in 1870 when Alvinza Hayward hired
150 Chinese laborers to run a water line to 3 Tr
his estate. An informal Chinatown began to (ie a
coalesce around B Street and Second Avenue _
with a rooming house, restaurant, and at
least three wash-houses.

San Mateo - 1888

By 1900 the community had
dwindled due to the Chinese
exclusion laws. A second Chinese
district developed around the
Hop Yick Company on First and
Claremont (then C Street),
interspersed with some Japanese
businesses. Most of the
merchant immigrants were from
Taishan and Huangliang Du.
During this period Chinese

Ist Av and C Street (Claremont) — prowers carried cut flowers to
San Francisco in reed baskets taking the train or the
streetcar line that ran from San Mateo to San Francisco.

This Chinatown mostly disappeared before World War IL.

The Ching Lee Laundry endured for generations, and was
the oldest Chinese laundry in the United States, when it
closed. People visited the laundry not only for laundry
service, but to exchange news. Similar to a pub, so much
life went through the front door, as they befriended the
community with the generations of families who patronized
the business. This testifies to how far Chinese immigrants
have come, overcoming alienation, poverty, segregation,
discrimination, and bigotry to become Americans.
Perseverance and dedication not just to the business itself
but also to the community it has been part of, the laundry
shop's name translates to “victory” in Cantonese.

310 of 311


--- page 311 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: CLOSED SESSION - CONV
File ID: 20-2662
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
March 2, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Conference with Labor Negotiators (Government Code Section 54957.6)
RECOMMENDATION:
City designated representatives:  Stacey Cue and Casey Echarte
Employee Organizations:  Management Association, Safety Management Association, SEIU Library Merit Unit, SEIU Library 
Per Diem Unit
STAFF CONTACT
Casey Echarte, Director of Human Resources
cecharte@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7262
311 of 311