source: packet.pdf
sha256: ebe355888200cb6b653ac81a896150a1b4b84120eb92db922a3d4745cd30f202
pages: 154
ocr_pages: 40
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
February 1, 2021
7:00 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
 Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS – 
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN‐PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: February 1, 2021 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone:  (408) 638‐0968      
Conference ID: 857 1452 6853      Passcode: 774744
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CEREMONIAL
1.
Black History Month – Proclamation
2.
HIP Housing (Human Investment Project, Inc.) – Calendar Presentation
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
3.
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meeting of January 19, 2021.
4.
Ordinance Adoption – Disposable Food Service Ware Regulations 
Adopt an Ordinance to repeal Chapter 5.89 “Polystyrene‐Based Disposable Food Service Ware” of the San
Mateo Municipal Code and adopt a new Chapter 5.89 "Disposable Food Service Ware" to regulate the use of
disposable food service ware by food facilities.
5.
Public Works Bucket Truck Purchase – Contract
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing process to approve a contract with National Auto
Fleet Group in the amount of $197,832.44 and authorize the acting Public Works Director to execute the
contract in substantially the form presented.
1 of 154

--- page 2 ---
6.
California Department of Transportation Sustainable Communities Grant Application – Letter of Support
Approve a letter of support to the California Department of Transportation for the fiscal year 2021‐22
Sustainable Communities Grant application; and authorize the Mayor to sign the letter on behalf of the City
Council in substantially the form presented.
7.
Service Employees International Union Non‐Merit Part Time Unit – Memorandum of Understanding Extension
Adopt a Resolution to extend the Memorandum of Understanding with the Service Employees International
Union Local 521 Non‐Merit Part Time Unit through September 4, 2021.
8.
San Mateo City Employees Association – Memorandum of Understanding Amendment
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the San Mateo City Employees'
Association for a term through June 25, 2022 with the option to extend through June 24, 2023.
9.
Response to Grand Jury Report Regarding: “Second Units: Adding New Housing in The Neighborhoods.”
Approve the City’s response letter to the San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury Report titled “Second Units:
Adding New Housing in The Neighborhoods,” and authorize the Mayor to sign and send the letter on behalf
of City Council
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up. Public
comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in the
agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
City Council action on the following public hearing(s) represents a final decision concluding all administrative proceedings. Judicial
review may be had only if a petition is filed with the Court not later than the 90th day following the date the decision is made. Judicial
review of environmental determinations may be subject to a time period for litigation as short as 30 days following the date the
decision is made.
10.
Extension of Temporary Street Closure and Moratorium on Regulations Affecting Outdoor Activities;
Adoption of Updated “Temporary Outdoor Dining Guidelines;” and Discussion of Parklets
Adopt a Resolution to extend the temporary street closures through September 30, 2021 and to update the
“Temporary Outdoor Dining Guidelines”; adopt an Emergency Ordinance to extend the moratorium on
enforcement of minimum parking space requirements and zoning regulations for commercial uses in private
shopping centers; and provide feedback on policy options for a long‐term parklet program.
OLD BUSINESS
11.
Short‐Term Rental Regulations and Permit Fee – Ordinance Introduction and Resolution
Introduce an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 5 “Business Licenses and
Regulations,” to regulate the usage of Short‐Term rentals and adopt a Resolution to amend the 2020‐21
Comprehensive Fee Schedule to add a two new fees for Short‐Term Rental Registration and Short‐Term
Rental Registration Appeal.
12.
COVID‐19 Update
Receive update on operational impacts and other City efforts related to COVID‐19 and confirm rules and
regulations issued by the City Manager acting as the Director of Emergency Services in response to declared
emergency.
2 of 154

--- page 3 ---
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the Council’s consideration of this item. Following the meeting a report of action
from Closed Session will be provided if required. 
13.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Anticipated Litigation
Initiation of litigation pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of section 54956.9: one potential case
ADJOURNMENT
­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the
agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522‐7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522‐7040, Monday‐Friday, 8 a.m. ‐ 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel‐San‐Mateo‐Live‐Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted
by default. When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the
appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638‐0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the
item of interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and
provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to
participate in this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522‐7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours
prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
3 of 154

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4257
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
February 01, 2021 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meetings of January 19, 2021.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Special Meeting Minutes 1/19/21
Att 2 - Regular Meeting Minutes 1/19/21
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
4 of 154

--- page 5 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 01/19/2021
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Diane Papan
Amourence Lee
Joe Goethals
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Tuesday, January 19, 2021
Remote 5:30 PM
Special Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency.
Roll Call
 
Remote:    Mayor Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor Bonilla, Council Members: Papan, Lee and Goethals
STUDY SESSION 
1.
State Route 92/State Route 82 El Camino Real Interchange Landscape Improvements Project – Informational 
Update
Assistant Engineer Jana Cadiz and Engineering Manager Cathi Zammit provided a presentation and informational 
update for the conceptual design of the State Route 92/State Route 82 El Camino Real Interchange Landscape 
Improvements Project. Chuck Gardella, Gates + Associates, Landscape Architect presented the landscape plan.
Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment – there were no speakers. Council expressed support for the 
plan and requested follow-up on some design elements.
2.
Pavement Management and Smooth Streets Program – Informational Update 
Engineering Manager Cathi Zammit provided a presentation and informational update on the Pavement 
Management and Smooth Streets Program. Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment – Adam Lorraine 
stated he would support more money for the pavement management program in the future. Council comments 
reflected support for the investment and an interest in enhanced bike and pedestrian master plan support.
Following the opportunity for public comment, there were no speakers the City Council convened into closed 
session to consider:
CLOSED SESSION
3.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Existing Litigation
(Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Government Code Section 54956.9)
Name of case: Debra LaPalm v. City of San Mateo, San Mateo Superior Court Case No. 19-CIV-02135
ADJOURNMENT - The meeting adjourned at 6:50 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                      
                                                           
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor                                                   
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
5 of 154

--- page 6 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 01/19/2021
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Diane Papan
Amourence Lee
Joe Goethals
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Tuesday, January 19, 2021
Remote 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency.
Roll Call
 
Remote:    Mayor Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor Bonilla, Council Members: Papan, Lee and Goethals
CEREMONIAL
1.
RethinkWaste Poster Contest – Student Winner Recognition
CONSENT CALENDAR
The following items, 2 through 15 were considered to be routine by the City Council. After the titles of the items were read 
by the City Clerk, the public was invited to comment and there were no speakers. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Goethals
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Lee, Papan and Goethals
Noes: 
None
 
2.
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meeting January 4, 2021 and Special meeting of 
January 11, 2021.
3.
Ordinance Adoption – Housing Rehabilitation Loan Committee Municipal Code Chapter Deletion
Adopt an Ordinance to delete San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.25 "Housing Rehabilitation Loan Committee".
Enactment:  Ordinance No. 2021-1
4.
Ordinance Adoption – Transient Occupancy Tax Municipal Code Amendment
Adopt an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 3.56 "Transient Occupancy Tax" to allow the 
City to take various actions to collect unpaid and delinquent transient occupancy tax.
Enactment:  Ordinance No. 2021-2
5.
City Council 2021 Regular Meeting Calendar – Adoption
Adopt the City Council Regular Meeting Schedule for calendar year 2021. 
6.
Personnel Board – Appointment Subcommittee Recommendation
6 of 154

--- page 7 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 01/19/2021
Page 2
Approve the recommendation of the Personnel Board appointment subcommittee to appoint Tony Villanueva to 
the unexpired term through June 10, 2024 vacated by Ellen Wang and Caiti Busch to the upcoming vacancy from 
Bryan Hollis terming out on June 10, 2021.
7.
Microsoft Software Support – Agreement Renewal
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing process and authorize a three-year renewal of the City’s 
Microsoft Enterprise Agreement for software licensing, cloud hosting, upgrades, and technical support for the City’s 
servers, workstations, and mobile devices through CDW-G, Inc. for an amount of $665,225.10 and authorize the 
City Manager to issue the purchase order.
Enactment: Resolution No. 5 (2021)
8.
Contracts with Contingency Component – Update
Receive the report on citywide contracts contingency fund expenditures for the period from July 1, 2015 through 
October 31, 2020 and approve an additional $2,000 contingency for the Rand Street Reconstruction Project.
9.
Sewer System Management Plan – Five-Year Update and Recertification
Adopt a Resolution to recertify the 2021 update of the Sewer System Management Plan.
Enactment: Resolution No. 6 (2021)
10.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and Expansion Project – Acquisition of Easements
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Agreement Granting Easements and Escrow Instructions between the City of San 
Mateo and All American Self Storage, L.P. for the granting of easements for the Wastewater Treatment Plant site in 
the amount of $145,000; approve payment of estimated closing costs for the transaction of approximately $4,000; 
and authorize the Mayor to execute the Agreement Granting Easements and Escrow Instructions, the Easement 
Deed and Agreement, and Temporary Construction Easement Deed and Agreement in substantially for the form 
presented. 
Enactment: Resolution No. 7 (2021)
11.
303 Baldwin Avenue – Final Map & Subdivision Improvement Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to approve the final map and approve the subdivision improvement agreement for the 303 
Baldwin Avenue Subdivision and authorize the acting Public Works Director to sign the agreement in substantially 
the form presented.
Enactment: Resolution No. 8 (2021)
12.
2021 Annual Investment Policy – Approval
Adopt a Resolution to approve the City of San Mateo 2021 Investment Policy.
Enactment: Resolution No. 9 (2021)
13.
2020-21 Comprehensive Fee Schedule – Amendment 
Adopt a Resolution to amend the 2020-21 Comprehensive Fee Schedule to include convenience fee charges 
collected by the Golf Course.
Enactment: Resolution No. 10 (2021)
7 of 154

--- page 8 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 01/19/2021
Page 3
14.
San Mateo County Gang Intelligence Unit – Agreement
Approve an agreement with the County of San Mateo to assign one San Mateo Police Sergeant to the San Mateo 
County Gang Intelligence Unit for a reimbursement amount not to exceed $120,000 annually; and authorize the 
Chief of Police to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented. 
15.
1409 Beacon Ave – Property Owner Appeal of Temporary Relocation Costs
Adopt statement of decision denying property owner appeal of order to reimburse City for payment of temporary 
relocation costs.
PUBLIC COMMENT - There were no speakers.
PUBLIC HEARING
16. 
CONTINUED FROM JANUARY 4, 2021 MEETING: Appeal Hearing for 1, 2, 3 Waters Park Drive Residential Project – 
Appeal of Planning Commission Decision PA-2020-043 (Modification of PA-2018-013)
Associate Planner Wendy Lao provided an overview of the 1, 2, 3 Waters Park Drive project and outlined the 
Planning Commission’s decision. Council asked questions of staff. The Mayor opened the Public Hearing. The 
Appellant, Laurianna Ceja Diaz and her attorney, Jonathan Kathrein, outlined the reason for the appeal. The 
Applicant, Pulte Homes, through its attorney Gregory Powers, provided the applicant’s position. Public Comment – 
in support of the appeal Vincent; Marty Jones; Julie U; Angela; Pete Alioto; Christina Cabera; Sue Lombardi; Scott 
Lombardi; Isaac Chavez Ceja; Sheila; Renee Thierry; and David.
Applicant rebutted through its attorney and the Applicant Aaron Head. Appellant rebutted through its attorney and 
the Appellant. The Mayor closed the Public Hearing. Council asked additional questions, deliberated, and provided 
comments: concurrence that the neighborhood has had to deal with a lot; there is an opportunity to investigate the 
vector control and seek greater enforcement of the conditions of approval; there is no remedy for addressing 
COVID-19 in CEQA and no additional CEQA review is required for the proposed minor changes; the importance of 
providing housing; the possibility of adding conditions of approval; the legal argument dictates the need to deny the 
appeal; there has to be more ways to support the residents; more enforcement is needed rather than adding on to 
the conditions of approval. Pulte was advised that there would be greater enforcement and that the residents need 
greater communication. 
Motion to Adopt a Resolution to deny the appeal and uphold the Planning Commission decision approving a Site 
Plan and Architectural Review - Planning Application Modification located at 1, 2, 3 Waters Park Drive. Motion 
passed 5-0.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Lee
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Lee, Papan and Goethals
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Resolution No. 11 (2021)
Council recessed from 9:38 – 9:43 pm.
OLD BUSINESS
8 of 154

--- page 9 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 01/19/2021
Page 4
17.
General Plan and Housing Element – Next Steps
Community Development Director Christina Horrisberger, Principal Planner Julia Klein and Joanna Jansen, 
consultant, provided an overview of the General Plan and Housing Element update process to date and sought 
feedback on the next steps. Council asked questions of staff. 
Public Comment – Michael Weinhauer commented on concern with single family home study areas; Raayan 
Mohtashemi opted for alternative C; Karen Herrel commented on the San Mateans for a Responsive Government 
letter sent; Lisa Diaz Nash commented on the need for more affordable housing and work on Option A or B; Martin 
stated more housing is needed, don’t entertain Option A; and Evelyn Stivers commented on a need for land use 
alternatives in more areas in the City.
Doug Handerson commented that housing progress is possible with Measure Y; Adam Loraine spoke in support of 
Council adjusting the project schedule and stated alternative A does not meet the need, and B and C are in conflict 
with measure Y; Adam Nugent spoke about the importance of the General Plan looking at the study areas as broadly 
as possible; Sarah Fields commented that thoughtful research has gone into the Regional Housing Needs Allowance 
(RHNA) numbers; Brian Keefer stated do not fight RHNA numbers; Jonathan New stated a need to expand the 
diversity of housing options; and Erika Powell stated the General Plan presentation was well done and urged more 
inclusive language.
Kueller stated the need to look at the entirety of San Mateo for study; Kelsey Banes urged to expand the study 
areas; Stephen Floor stated it is necessary to expand study areas; Seema Patel stated she is not clear how these 
options and numbers account for decades of jobs/housing imbalance; Taso Zografos commented on residents’ 
efforts to push back on ABAG on RHNA numbers; Jordan Grimes supports Alternative C and urged reexamining the 
study areas; Carol Steinfeld stated the whole city should be studied; and Nicole Fernandez stated the study areas 
should be the whole City. 
Council provided their comments on the following:
1.
Should the General Plan update effort proceed with the current range of alternatives and project schedule?
2.
Should the General Plan Update effort consider adjusting the range of alternatives and project schedule?
3.
Does the Council have any additional direction or have other concerns?
Deputy Mayor Bonilla commented not to put time and effort into Alternative A and he is in favor of Alternatives B 
and C as well as studying the entire City. Council Member Goethals commented on the need to concentrate on 
housing close to transit; he would be in favor of going forward with all three alternatives; and he has no additional 
direction. Council Member Papan concurred with Goethals. Mayor Rodriguez concurs with Papan and Goethals and 
noted the need for additional information and he does have some nervousness about Alternative A. Council 
Member Lee stated no neighborhood should be exempt from change; concern with RHNA cycle 7 as a huge variable; 
she sees no need to adjust the range.
18.
COVID-19 Update #23 and Consideration for Letter of Support for Assembly Bills 15 and 16
City Manager Drew Corbett provided an update on operational impacts and other city efforts related to Covid-19. 
There were no questions. Public Comment – Jordan Grimes, One San Mateo, supports AB 15 & 16. Adam Loraine 
and Michael Weinhauer concurred. Kyle Crews concurred. Council directed staff to write a letter for the Mayor’s 
signature supporting Assembly Bills 15 and 16 and include the banks and lenders into future discussions and 
legislation on this issue as banks and lenders are critical stakeholders in the eviction protection process. 
9 of 154

--- page 10 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 01/19/2021
Page 5
NEW BUSINESS
19.
CONTINUED FROM JANUARY 4, 2021 MEETING: 1,2, and 3 Waters Park Subdivision – Final Map Approval
Senior Engineer Tracy Scramaglia provided a presentation on the subdivision improvement agreement and final map 
for the 1, 2, 3 Waters Park Development. Public Comment – Laurianna Ceja Diaz stated concern that names not be 
included on the map. Gregory Powers commented that this is a ministerial effort.
Move to Adopt a Resolution to approve the final map and approve the subdivision improvement agreement for 
Waters Park Development, creating 27 single family residential units and 163 residential condominium units, and 
authorize the Acting Public Works Director to sign the agreement in substantially the form presented. Motion 
passed 5-0.
Moved:
Bonilla, Seconded: Goethals
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Lee, Papan and Goethals
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Resolution No. 12 (2021)
20. 
Report on Housing Leadership Council Post-Election Event
City Attorney Shawn Mason provided an overview of on the events leading up to the denial of access to two 
persons registered to attend Housing Leadership Council’s (HLC) post-election event and the City’s efforts to 
investigate the incident and secure release of a recording of the event for public review. 
Public Comment – Taso Zografos commented on the expectation that the Council supports the outcome of an 
election and expressed disappointment in City Council members involvement in the meeting; Lisa Taner spoke of 
concern about the situation and said these actions have wounded the public trust; Kyle Crews stated it was 
inappropriate to have denied public access; Erika Powell stated concern with speaking with a view opposite to 
council members; Karen Herrel stated the real issue is public trust and the video is eye opening. David Shum 
commented on a need to collaborate on moving forward with both sides in the room; Laurieanna Ceja Diaz stated 
council members are not representative of the constituents; Seema Patel spoke in support of the Council taking 
the tim. e to speak to housing advocates as a good thing; Michael Weinhauer noted he was one of the people 
disinvited and is concerned that the story keeps changing; and Raayan Mohtashemi stated he is in alignment with 
Seema Patel’s comments 
Council Member Goethals commented that he was sorry anyone was excluded from the meeting, he was not 
aware of the exclusion, noting that the Council publicly came out against Measure Y, and some on the Council 
were in favor of Measure R, and he still believes in density near the train stations. He commented that City 
Council members are not here for self-interest, being on Council is difficult and requires personal sacrifice and all 
of Council is not here for any one neighborhood but for the entire City. The housing crisis is one of the most 
critical needs of the City and he applauds fellow council Members for doing all they can to meet that challenge.  
Deputy Mayor Rick Bonilla requested that the Homeowner Associations would invite him to speak with them or 
any individuals that feel they have positions that he needs to be informed of. He noted that the HLC meeting was 
offered publicly and he was not aware of the exclusion. He noted he was urging everyone to get involved in the 
General Plan process which he has done in any public forum; and provided facts about RHNA numbers. He 
acknowledged Measure Y is the law and stated the need to take steps to be more equitable in the housing 
market.  
10 of 154

--- page 11 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 01/19/2021
Page 6
Council Member Lee stated it is important to be factual, noting all of Council was part of the coalition opposing 
Measure Y, all of the Council was in attendance at the HLC meeting, and all of Council supports an inclusive 
General Plan process and that has been consistent, transparent and open since the beginning. The important 
point of upholding the public trust and holding that as sacred does require listening and bringing all voices to the 
table. She was shocked to learn that members that registered for the event had been excluded. Based on her 
experience with the registration process, she thought it an open and public event. It appeared to be as public and 
non-secret as an event could be. It was widely promoted on social media, email marketing and a publicly 
accessible web page. There was no indication from her registration process and her visibility into the event that 
there would be an effort to exclude anyone. She has met with all players to have a conversation. It is her duty as 
a council representative to listen to everyone. That includes the affordable housing advocates, developers and 
business owners as well as residents. She will meet with everyone and is committed to continuing to do that. She 
is dedicated to upholding the integrity of process and inclusivity. The goal is that all voices can come to the table 
and be heard. Her take-away is that if all of Council is invited to a meeting she will convey that to the City 
Attorney immediately for analysis to ensure it is an open and transparent process and to ensure public trust. She 
cautioned against taking a comment out of context. She is committed to working on affordable housing, an open 
General Plan process, finding a way to meet RHNA goals and will continue to uphold a fair process. 
Council Member Papan stated she went to the meeting to listen, she thought it was a public meeting, noting 
some of this is a sign of the times because of being in a pandemic we assumed it was treated as a public meeting 
and the operator of the meeting was conducting it as such. She noted that if the meeting was held in person it 
would be easy to physically see someone being excluded – we are at a disadvantage in a remote meeting to 
understand whether or not anyone is being excluded. That would have made an issue for every Council Member. 
A part of this job is listening to all sides, and she will continue to listen to all sides. In the future, she will take 
steps to ensure whoever is hosting the meeting is not excluding anyone. 
Mayor Rodriguez noted that when Mr. Zografos first approached him with these concerns; he stated he wanted 
transparency and access to the video; and he is pleased that the video has been made public so everyone can see 
what happened in the meeting. He commended staff for investigating and reporting on this and noted we have 
done all we could have done in the spirit of transparency after learning of the issue. All Council Members have 
realized in the age of Zoom we have to be even more careful about how people can be excluded from meetings. 
Council will have to take it upon themselves more to not assume other organizers of events understand the 
nuance of and various aspects of the Brown Act. The Mayor thanked the public for bringing these concerns 
forward and noted this is a healthy conversation to have. 
21.
Community Wellness and Crisis Response Team Mental Health Partnership – Agreement
Police Lieutenant Matt Lethin and Chief of Police Ed Barberini provided a presentation on the multi-city effort to 
form a response program for mental health crisis situations. Council asked questions of staff. Chief Barberini 
responded and Scott Gilman County Health responded. Public Comment – expressing appreciation for implementing 
the program: Martin, Adam Loraine, and Stephanie Reyes.
Motion to Adopt a Resolution to approve an appropriation in the amount of $76,937, to the Police Department’s 
2020-2021 operating budget; approve a two-year agreement to authorize the Police Department to collaborate with 
the police departments of South San Francisco, Redwood City, Daly City, and the County of San Mateo County, 
Behavioral Health and Recovery Services, in the formation of a mental health partnership crisis response program, 
with a total cost over the two years of $156,182; and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the agreement in 
substantially the form presented. Motion Passed 5-0.
Moved:
Bonilla, Seconded: Goethals
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Lee, Papan and Goethals
Noes: 
None
11 of 154

--- page 12 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 01/19/2021
Page 7
Enactment:  Resolution No. 13 (2021)
22.
Temporary Storage Containers in the Public Right-of-Way – Ordinance Introduction
Assistant Transportation Planner Nicolette Chan and Principal Transportation Planner Sue-Ellen Atkinson provided 
information on the need to amend how temporary storage containers in the public right-of-way, including approval 
requirements; length of time allowed for placement; fees; and encroachment permit process. Council had no 
questions of staff. Public Comment – There were no speakers. 
Motion to Introduce an Ordinance to amend Municipal Code Chapter 17.08.020 “Placing Certain Objects in the 
Public Right-of-Way” to permit temporary storage containers in the public right-of-way. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Bonilla, Seconded: Lee
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Lee, Papan and Goethals
Noes: 
None
23.
Disposable Food Service Ware Regulations – Ordinance Introduction
Sustainability Analyst Andrea Chow provided a presentation on the County of San Mateo’s disposable food service 
ware ordinance and other cities steps to regulate food service ware. Staff recommended repealing the current 
chapter with regard to food service ware and mirroring the County’s ordinance. Council asked questions of staff. 
Public Comment – Adam Lorrain spoke in support.
Motion to Introduce an Ordinance to repeal Chapter 5.89 “Polystyrene-Based Disposable Food Service Ware” of the 
San Mateo Municipal Code and adopt a new Chapter 5.89 "Disposable Food Service Ware" to regulate the use of 
disposable food service ware by food facilities. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Lee
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Lee, Papan and Goethals
Noes: 
None
24.
Mid-Year Budget Update – Supplemental Budget Appropriation – CONTINUED TO JANUARY 30, 2021
Due to the lateness of the hour, this item was not heard and was continued to January 30, 2021 Goal Setting 
meeting.
Receive the 2020-21 mid-year budget update and adopt a Resolution to appropriate $0.4 million of reimbursement 
revenues in the General Fund for the Police Department operating budget, transfer $0.6 million in Capital 
Improvement Project project funding for the Central Park Garage Repair Project from the Downtown Parking and 
Security Fund to the Parking In-Lieu Fund, and approve increasing the permitted funding of the Sewer Lateral 
Program by $225,000 using existing Sewer Fund budget appropriations.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
The City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members reported on their various assignments and liaison roles. 
ADJOURNMENT – The meeting adjourned at 1:46 a.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
12 of 154

--- page 13 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 01/19/2021
Page 8
                                                                                      
                                                           
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor                                                   
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
13 of 154

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3987-01
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
February 1, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Ordinance Adoption – Disposable Food Service Ware Regulations 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to repeal Chapter 5.89 “Polystyrene-Based Disposable Food Service Ware” of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code and adopt a new Chapter 5.89 "Disposable Food Service Ware" to regulate the use of disposable food 
service ware by food facilities.
BACKGROUND:
Ordinance Introduction date: January 19, 2021
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7007
14 of 154

--- page 15 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Repealing Chapter 5.89 “Polystyrene-based Disposable Food Service Ware,” of the San Mateo Municipal Code 
and Adopting New Chapter 5.89 “Disposable Food Service Ware”
WHEREAS, the production, management, and consumption associated with disposable food service 
ware, typically used for only a few minutes before being discarded, have significant environmental impacts, 
including environmental contamination; consumption of precious resources such as energy and water; 
emissions of greenhouse gases; air and water pollution; litter on streets; and plastic pollution in waterways and 
oceans; and
WHEREAS, disposable food service ware constitutes a substantial portion of the litter found within the 
City of San Mateo and the rest of the Bay Area. 
WHEREAS, these types of food service ware are commonly littered or blown out of trash receptacles and 
migrate through the storm drain system where they eventually end up in local creeks and the San Francisco Bay; 
and
WHEREAS, polystyrene is a petroleum-based, lightweight plastic material which was commonly used as 
food service ware by retail food vendors and became a problematic environmental pollutant given its non-
compostable and nearly non-reusable nature; and 
WHEREAS, the County of San Mateo first adopted an ordinance prohibiting food vendors from using 
polystyrene-based disposable food service ware in 2011; and 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo adopted the County of San Mateo ordinance by reference in City 
Ordinance 2013-6; and 
WHEREAS, since that time, the County of San Mateo has conducted extensive research on a new 
Disposable Food Service Ware Ordinance that would restrict plastic disposable food service ware in our 
community; and 
WHEREAS, effective ways to reduce the negative environmental impacts of disposable food service ware 
include, in order of priority, using reusable food service ware; using natural-fiber based compostable materials, 
many made from renewable resources such as bamboo, wheat stalk/stem, and sugarcane that do not contain 
toxic chemicals; and recycling food service ware; and 
WHEREAS, when products are reused and recycled, natural resources are spared, less energy is used for 
the production of new products, and premium landfill space is preserved; and
WHEREAS, when compostable products are turned into compost, they can reduce water use and lessen 
the need for fertilizer at the site where the compost is applied (e.g., gardens, yards, farm land, etc.), which can 
also lead to cost savings since less or no fertilizers need to be purchased; and
WHEREAS, compostable food service ware such as cups, plates, clamshell containers, and utensils are 
now made from paper, sugarcane stalk, bamboo, wheat stalk/straw, and other blends of natural plant fibers 
which pose less of a danger compared to plastic as they degrade; and
15 of 154

--- page 16 ---
WHEREAS, even with the emergence of compostable plastics, which are derived from renewable 
biomass sources such as plants and microorganisms, there are limited certified types of compostable plastic that 
biodegrade in a marine environment; and
WHEREAS, certain disposable food service ware, including compostable paperboard containers, may 
contain fluorinated chemicals, also known as per- and polyfluorinated alkyl substances (PFAS), which are 
synthetic chemicals commonly used in disposable food service ware to repel water and grease; and 
WHEREAS, fluorinated chemicals pose a public health risk as they have been linked to serious health 
effects including kidney and testicular cancer, thyroid disruption, delayed puberty, and obesity; and
WHEREAS, plastics in waterways and oceans break down into smaller pieces, called microplastics, that 
do not biodegrade and are present in most of the world’s oceans; and
WHEREAS, reduction of disposable food service ware in the environment will advance compliance with 
federal, state, and county clean water mandates, including the City’s Municipal Regional Stormwater Permit 
requirement, by helping to reduce trash and litter in stormwater discharges; and
WHEREAS, the County of San Mateo coordinated with a number of different entities, including local 
cities, county solid waste haulers, nearby industrial composting facilities, waste and stormwater-related joint 
powers authorities, restaurant and business associations, non-profit organizations, and educational institutions 
before drafting their ordinance; and 
WHEREAS, on February 25, 2020, the County of San Mateo Board of Supervisors repealed the 2011 
polystyrene ban ordinance and replace it with a new Disposable Food Service Ware ordinance which would 
continue to restrict the use of polystyrene-based disposable food service ware and require food facilities to 
replace non-compostable or non-recyclable food service ware with compostable alternatives that are non-
plastic, natural fiber-based and free of all intentionally added fluorinated chemicals where possible; and 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo wishes to follow the County of San Mateo and adopt an ordinance 
reducing plastic disposable food service ware by food facilities within the City.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Chapter 5.89 “Polystyrene-based Disposable Food Service Ware” of Title “Business Licenses and 
Regulations” is hereby replaced with Chapter 5.89 “Disposable Food Service Ware” and amended to read:
5.89.010 Definitions
For purposes of this Chapter, the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a) “Aluminum Foil-based” means any Disposable Food Service Ware composed entirely of aluminum, 
including but not limited to aluminum tray liners, aluminum foil, and aluminum foil baskets. 
(b) “Biodegradable Products Institute (BPI)” refers to a certification program that ensures that products 
and packaging displaying the BPI logo have been independently tested and verified accordingly to scientifically 
based standards to successfully break down in professionally managed industrial composting facilities. BPI-
16 of 154

--- page 17 ---
certified products meet the standards of the American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM) D6400 or D6868 for 
compostability.
(c) “Compostable” means that an item or material (1) will break down, or otherwise become part of 
usable compost in a safe and timely manner and (2) is Natural Fiber-based or made from other materials 
approved by the County Manager or designee. Compostable items may include those that are made entirely of 
Natural Fiber or Natural Fiber-based items that are coated or lined with biologically based polymer, such as corn 
or other plant sources (e.g., compostable plastics), if certified by BPI or by another independent third party 
approved by the County Manager or designee. 
(d) “City” means City of San Mateo or any entity authorized to perform City duties in a written 
agreement, which includes the County of San Mateo.
(e) “County” means the County of San Mateo.
(f) “Disposable” means designed to be discarded after a single or limited number of uses and not 
designed or manufactured for long-term multiple re-use. 
(g) “Food Service Ware” means food contact products used for serving, distributing, holding, packaging, 
and/or transporting Prepared Food including, but not limited to plates, cups, bowls, trays, clamshell containers, 
boxes, utensils, straws, lids, and food contact paper (e.g., wraps, bags, tray liners, etc.). The term "Food Service 
Ware" includes Food Service Ware Accessories.
(h) “Food Service Ware Accessories” include Food Service Ware such as straws, stirrers, cup spill plugs, 
cup sleeves, condiment packets, utensils (including chopsticks), cocktail sticks/picks, toothpicks, napkins, and 
other similar accessory or accompanying Food Service Ware used as part of food or beverage service or 
packaging. Detachable lids for beverage cups and food containers are not considered a Food Service Ware 
Accessory. 
(i) “Fluorinated Chemicals” means perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS chemicals) or 
fluorinated chemicals, which are a class of fluorinated organic chemicals containing at least one fully fluorinated 
carbon atom. 
(j) “Food Facility” means an operation that stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends, or otherwise 
provides food to the public for human consumption, as defined by the California Health and Safety Code Section 
113789 or successor. It includes both permanent and temporary food facilities. For purposes of this Chapter, 
public schools are not included in the definition of Food Facility. 
(k) “Food Scrap Composting Method” means (1) self-hauling of food scraps to a permitted composting 
facility or a transfer station that accepts food scraps that will be transferred to a permitted composting facility 
for on-site compost processing, (2) food scrap compost collection service provided by a curbside hauler, or (3) 
on-site food scrap composting. 
(l) “Healthcare Facilities” mean places that provide healthcare to the public. Healthcare Facilities 
include, but are not limited to hospitals, clinics, outpatient care centers, nursing homes, psychiatric care centers, 
medical offices, hospice homes, mental health and addiction treatment centers, orthopedic and other 
rehabilitation centers, urgent care, or birth centers. 
17 of 154

--- page 18 ---
(m) “Natural Fiber/Natural Fiber-based” means a plant or animal-based, nonsynthetic fiber, including 
but not limited to products made from paper, sugarcane, bamboo, wheat stems/stalk, hay, or wood. 
(n) “Non-Compostable” means not meeting the definition of Compostable set forth in this Chapter.
(o) “Polystyrene-based” means and includes expanded polystyrene, which is a thermoplastic 
petrochemical material utilizing a styrene monomer and processed by any number of techniques including, but 
not limited to fusion of polymer spheres (expandable bead polystyrene), injection molding, form molding, and 
extrusion-blow molding (extruded foam polystyrene). The term "polystyrene" also includes polystyrene that has 
been expanded or blown using a gaseous blowing agent into a solid foam (expanded polystyrene [EPS]) and 
clear or solid polystyrene known as oriented polystyrene.) 
(p) “Prepackaged Food” means any properly labeled processed food, prepackaged to prevent any direct 
human contact with the food product upon distribution from the manufacturer and prepared at an approved 
source. 
(q) “Prepared Food” means food or beverages that undergo a cooking or food preparation technique on 
the Food Facility’s premises for consumption by the public. Cooking or food preparation technique includes, but 
is not limited to, the following: 1) Cooking methods, utilizing the application of heat, such as steaming, 
microwaving, simmering, boiling, broiling, grilling, frying, or roasting; 2) Beverage preparation, such as blending, 
brewing, steeping, juicing, diluting, or pouring; and 3) Food preparation techniques, such as defrosting, rinsing, 
washing, diluting, cutting, portioning, mixing, blending, assembling, coating, dipping, garnishing, decorating, or 
icing. Prepared Food does not include raw eggs or raw, butchered meats, fish, and/or poultry sold from a 
butcher case, a refrigerator case, or similar retail appliance. 
(r) “Takeout Food” means Prepared Food requiring no further preparation, which is purchased to be 
consumed off a Prepared Food Facility’s premises. Takeout Food includes Prepared Food delivered by a Food 
Facility or by a third-party Takeout Food Delivery Service. 
(s) “Takeout Food Delivery Service” is a service that delivers Takeout Food from a Food Facility to a 
customer for consumption off the premises. This service can be provided directly by the Food Facility or by a 
third-party.
5.89.020 Distribution of Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories
(a) No Food Facility shall provide any Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories except:
(1) upon request by the consumer, 
(2) upon acceptance by the consumer after being offered by the Food Facility, or 
(3) at a self-serve area and/or a dispenser. 
(b) Food Facilities shall only distribute Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories unbundled, as separate 
individual units. 
(c) Takeout Food Delivery Services that utilize digital ordering/point of sale platforms, including but not 
limited to the internet and smart-phone, shall only offer Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories by providing 
18 of 154

--- page 19 ---
clear options for customers to affirmatively request these items separate from orders for food and beverages. 
The default option on the digital ordering/point of sale platforms shall be that no Disposable Food Service Ware 
Accessories are requested. Each individual Disposable Food Service Ware Accessory (e.g., each fork, knife, 
condiment packet, napkin, etc.) provided with Prepared Food must be specifically requested by the customer in 
order for a Food Facility to provide it.
5.89.030 Standards and Required Use of Disposable Food Service Ware
(a) No Food Facility shall use Polystyrene-based Disposable Food Service Ware when providing Prepared 
Food.
(b) Food Facilities shall only provide Disposable straws, stirrers, utensils, and cocktail/toothpicks (and 
the packaging that these individual items are wrapped in, if any) that are Compostable. 
(c) Nothing in this Chapter shall conflict or be construed to conflict with the Americans with Disabilities 
Act or any other applicable law concerning the rights of individuals with disabilities. In particular, nothing in this 
Chapter shall restrict, or be construed to restrict, the provision by Food Facilities of Disposable Non-
Compostable straws to individuals who may request the use of Disposable Non-Compostable straws to 
accommodate medical needs or disabilities. Healthcare Facilities may distribute Disposable Non-Compostable 
straws with or without request by a patient at the discretion of the Healthcare Facility staff based on the 
physical or medical needs of the patient. 
(d) Food Facilities shall use Compostable items for the below Disposable Food Service Ware: 
(1) Plates 
(2) Bowls (of all sizes including, but not limited to soup and salad bowls and accessory bowls for 
condiments) 
(3) Cups (of all sizes including, but not limited to beverage cups)
(4) Food trays 
(5) Clamshells, boxes, deli containers, and other containers used for the sale and/or distribution 
of Prepared Food (e.g., Takeout Food, leftover “doggie containers”, etc.) 
(e) Compostable items for the Disposable Food Service Ware listed in Subsection (d) used by Food 
Facilities must have been tested to breakdown into compost in an industrial composting facility in a timely 
manner and shall be free of all intentionally added Fluorinated Chemicals. To verify, these items shall be 
certified by Biodegradable Products Institute (BPI) or another independent third party approved by the County 
Manager or designee, in collaboration with local waste processors and haulers.
(f) For all other Disposable Food Service Ware not listed in Subsections (b) and (d), Food Facilities shall 
use only Disposable Food Service Ware that can be composted by the Food Scrap Composting method utilized 
by the Food Facility and/or accepted for recycling by the Food Facility’s recycling collection service. 
(g) The City shall maintain and make publicly available a list of approved Disposable Food Service Ware 
sources and/or references to organizations that maintain regularly updated lists of products that meet the 
19 of 154

--- page 20 ---
requirements detailed in Subsections (a), (b), (d), and (e) of this Section. If a product is not included on the 
approved lists, the Food Facility wishing to use a product as Disposable Food Service Ware shall establish to the 
City’s satisfaction that the product complies with the requirements detailed in Subsections (a), (b), (d), and (e).
5.89.040 Recordkeeping and Inspection
(a) Food Facilities shall keep complete and accurate record or documents of the below items:
(1) Commencing on April 1, 2021, the purchase of all Disposable Food Service Ware, including 
Non-Compostable and Compostable items.
(2) The purchase of the acceptable Disposable Food Service Ware evidencing compliance with 
this Chapter for a minimum period of three years from the date of purchase. 
(b) The record shall be made available for inspection at no cost to the City during regular business hours 
by City or any other entity authorized to enforce this Chapter. Unless an alternative location or method of 
review is mutually agreed upon, the records or documents shall be made available at the Food Facility address. 
(c) The provision of false or incomplete information, records, or documents to the City shall be a 
violation of this Chapter.
5.89.050 Automatic Exemptions
(a) Prepackaged Food is exempt from the provisions of this Chapter.
(b) Polystyrene coolers and ice chests intended for reuse are exempt from the provisions of this Chapter.
(c) Disposable Food Service Ware that is entirely Aluminum Foil-based is exempt from the provisions of 
this Chapter. 
(d) If the City determines that a reasonably feasible Disposable Food Service Ware that complies with 
Section 5.89.030 (a), (b), (d), and (e) of this Chapter does not exist, these items will be exempt from the 
abovementioned provisions of this Chapter until the City determines that a reasonably feasible alternative is 
available on the market for purchase. The City will maintain and make publicly available a current list of these 
exempted Disposable Food Service Ware. 
(e) Certain Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories for beverage orders, specifically, straws and cup 
sleeves, shall be exempt from Section 5.89.020 (a) and may be distributed for safety reasons without the need 
for a request by the consumer or an offer by the Food Facility, specifically at drive-through areas of Food 
Facilities. Detachable lids are not considered a Disposable Food Service Ware Accessory 
(f) Temporary exemptions due to an emergency are automatic without the submission of a request for 
an exemption. An emergency is defined as a sudden, unexpected occurrence posing a clear and imminent 
danger that requires immediate action to prevent or mitigate the loss or impairment of life, health, property, or 
essential public services. Examples of an emergency include, but are not limited to natural disasters, 
emergencies due to the release of hazardous materials, emergencies associated with loss of power and/or 
water, or emergency medical response.
20 of 154

--- page 21 ---
5.89.060 Case-by-Case Consideration of Requests for Hardship Exemption
(a) Grounds for an exemption. An exemption from any of the provisions of this Chapter may be granted 
by the City upon demonstration by a Food Facility to the satisfaction of the City that strict application of the 
requirements would cause undue hardship. An “undue hardship” includes, but is not limited to the following: 
(1) A situation unique to the Food Facility where a suitable alternative that conforms with the 
requirements detailed in Section 5.89.030 (a), (b), (d), and (e) does not exist for a specific application.
(2) Imposing the provisions of this Chapter would cause significant economic hardship. 
“Significant economic hardship” may be based on, but not limited to, demonstrating that suitable 
Disposable Food Service Ware is not available at a commercially reasonable price and the additional cost 
associated with providing the Disposable Food Service Ware is particularly burdensome to the Food 
Facility based on the type of operation(s) affected, the overall size of the business/operation, the 
number, type and location of its facilities, the impact on the overall financial resources of the Food 
Facility, and other factors. Reasonable added cost for a suitable item as compared to a similar item that 
the Food Facility can no longer use shall not by itself constitute adequate grounds to support an 
exemption for such item. In determining whether a significant economic hardship has been established, 
the City shall consider the following information: ability of the Food Facility to recover the additional 
expense by increasing its prices; the availability of tax credits and deductions; outside funding; and other 
options. 
(b) Request for an exemption. A request for an exemption from the requirements of this Chapter shall 
include all information deemed necessary by the City to render a decision, including but not limited to 
documentation showing the factual support for the requested exemption. A request for an exemption may be 
approved by the City, in whole or in part, with or without conditions. The duration of the exemption, if granted, 
shall also be determined by the City. 
5.89.070 Authorization for County Enforcement
In addition to the City's enforcement mechanisms set forth in Title 1 of this code, the City of San Mateo 
authorizes the County of San Mateo to enforce this chapter of the municipal code, including, without limitation, 
the authority to act on requests for undue hardship exemptions, hold hearings, issue administrative fines and 
retain collected fines.
Section 2. Environmental Determination. This Ordinance is exempt from the environmental review 
requirements of CEQA pursuant to, section 15061(b)(3), of Title 14 of the California Code of Regulations because 
it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the provisions contained herein may have a 
significant effect on the environment. Further, the Ordinance is also exempt from the requirements of CEQA 
pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Sections 15307 and 15308 of Title 14 of the California Code of Regulations as it is 
an action taken by a regulatory agency to assure the maintenance, restoration, enhancement of natural 
resources, or protection of the environment.
Section 3. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
21 of 154

--- page 22 ---
Section 4. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 5. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and Section 5.89.040 “Recordkeeping and Inspection” subsection (a) shall be 
effective on April 1, 2021. The remaining sections of the Ordinance shall be effective October 1, 2022.
22 of 154

--- page 23 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-4075
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
February 01, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Public Works Bucket Truck Purchase – Contract
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing process to approve a contract with National Auto Fleet Group in 
the amount of $197,832.44 and authorize the acting Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the 
form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The Public Works Department utilizes various specialty vehicles to perform essential services. One of these is a Ford F-750 
with a specialty bucket lift mounted on the utility bed. For specialized equipment such as the Ford F-750 bucket truck, 
there are limited procurement sources available to government agencies and they are typically limited to contracts with 
either Sourcewell (formally NJPA) or State of California General Services Division (GSD). 
Previously, staff received GSD pricing and City Council approval for this purchase from a vendor that ultimately refused to 
sign the City’s standard purchasing contract. Therefore, staff again sought alternative pricing through Sourcewell, which 
conducts its own competitive bid processes to select a vendor for use by member agencies to achieve best possible pricing. 
National Auto Fleet Group provided a quote equivalent to the original quote and has agreed to sign the City’s standard 
purchasing contract. Staff recommends the purchase of the Ford F-750 bucket truck from National Auto Fleet Group 
through Sourcewell’s competitive bid process.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funding is available in the Vehicle Replacement Fund (Fund 81).
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Contract
STAFF CONTACT
Eric Bell, Facilities and Fleet Services Manager
23 of 154

--- page 24 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ebell@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7328
Matthew Zucca, Public Works Deputy Director
mzucca@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7308
24 of 154

--- page 25 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. __(2021)
APPROVING CONTRACT FOR PURCHASE OF ONE FORD F-750 BUCKET TRUCK AUTHORIZING THE USE OF 
SOURCEWELL (FORMALLY NJPA) PRICING QUOTE FOR THE PURCHASE
WHEREAS, the City Council is being asked to award a contract for the purchase of one (1) Ford F-750 
bucket truck in the amount of $197,832.44; and 
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.030 generally requires competitive bidding for 
contacts of $100,000 or more; and 
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to approve 
alternative purchasing procedures when it is in the best interest of the City; and
 
WHEREAS, use of Sourcewell – NJPA Contract #060920-NAF offers best pricing for the Ford F-750 bucket 
truck from National Auto Fleet Group; and
WHEREAS, the one Ford F-750 bucket truck with the specifications and capabilities meet the 
requirements of the City; and
WHEREAS, based on these circumstances, staff recommends the purchase of one Ford F-750 bucket 
truck in the best interest of the City without standard competitive bid practice; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with CEQA guidelines section 15378 (b)(5), this equipment purchase is an 
administrative activity that will not impact the environment and is therefore not a project subject to CEQA;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that: 
1. In accordance with Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3), use of pricing from Sourcewell for this 
purchase instead of competitive bidding is in the City's best interest because
a.
National Auto Fleet Group is the company that produces a Ford F-750 bucket truck that meets 
the City’s requirements.
b.
The City has obtained best price for the one (1) Ford F-750 bucket truck with Sourcewell – NJPA 
Contract #060920-NAF pricing from National Auto Fleet Group.
2. The procedure utilized by staff of obtaining Sourcewell – NJPA Contract # 060920-NAF with National 
Auto Fleet Group pricing for one Ford F-750 bucket truck is approved in accordance with Municipal 
Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3)
25 of 154

--- page 26 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods 
 
Page 1 of 5 
Rev 9/17 
PURCHASE CONTRACT FOR ONE (1) FORD F-750 BUCKET TRUCK 
 FROM 
 NATIONAL AUTO FLEET GROUP 
 
 
This Purchase Contract (“Contract”), made and entered into this day of ___________________, 
by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State 
of California (“CITY”), and NATIONAL AUTO FLEET GROUP (“VENDOR”). 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
A. 
CITY desires to purchase certain Ford F-750 bucket truck hereinafter described. 
 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage VENDOR to provide these Ford F-750 bucket truck by reason of 
its qualifications and experience and VENDOR has offered to provide the required goods on the terms 
and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - PURCHASE 
 
 
The goods to be purchased from VENDOR under this Contract are described in Exhibit A to this 
Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - PRICE AND TAXES 
 
 
 
All prices shall be as stated in this Contract and are firm and not subject to escalation.  
This purchase, in the amount not to exceed $197,832.44, is subject to all California sales tax.  
Municipalities are exempt from federal excise and transportation taxes.  Prices shall exclude these 
taxes.   
 
SECTION 3 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Unless otherwise agreed in writing, payment terms shall be net thirty (30) days from date of 
receipt of invoice or acceptance of goods, whichever occurs last.  Invoices must cite the purchase order 
number to prevent delay in payment.  All invoices must be mailed to City of San Mateo, Attn:  Accounts 
Payable, 330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403. 
 
26 of 154

--- page 27 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods 
 
Page 2 of 5 
Rev 9/17 
SECTION 4 - DELIVERY AND PERFORMANCE 
 
 
Time is of the essence in the performance of this Contract.  If delivery of goods cannot be made 
at the specified time, VENDOR shall promptly notify the CITY of the earliest possible date for delivery.  
Notwithstanding such notice, if VENDOR for any reason fails to deliver goods within the time specified 
or to the CITY’s satisfaction the CITY may terminate this Contract or any part thereof without liability 
except for goods previously provided and accepted.  The CITY’s receipt or acceptance of all or part of a 
non-conforming delivery shall not constitute a waiver of any claim, right or remedy the CITY has under 
this Contract or applicable law.  
 
SECTION 5 - SHIPMENT AND INSPECTION 
 
 
VENDOR assumes full responsibility for all transportation, transportation scheduling, packing, 
handling, insurance, and other services associated with delivery of all products.  No charges for 
transportation containers, packing, etc., will be allowed the vendor unless so specified in this Contract.  
All shipments shall be F.O. B 1961 Pacific Blvd, San Mateo, CA 94403.  Transportation charges shall be 
shown as a separate item on the invoice. 
 
 
The CITY may revise shipping instructions as to any goods not as yet shipped.  The CITY shall 
have the right to inspect any or all of the goods at VENDOR’s place of business or upon receipt by the 
CITY.  By reason of its failure to inspect the goods, the CITY shall not be deemed to have accepted any 
defective goods or goods which do not conform to the specifications provided or to have waived any of 
the CITY’s rights or remedies arising by virtue of such defects or non-conformance.  VENDOR shall be 
responsible for payment of shipping for the return of any defective goods.  Shipping documents and 
invoices must cite the Purchase Order number. 
 
SECTION 6 - WARRANTIES 
 
 
In addition to any other expressed or implied warranties and unless otherwise agreed in 
writing, VENDOR warrants that all products delivered hereunder will be new, suitable for use as 
described, of the grade and quality specified, free from all defects in design, material and 
workmanship; in conformity with all samples, drawings, descriptions and specifications furnished; in 
compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and free of any liens and 
encumbrances.  These warranties shall not be deemed to exclude VENDOR’s standard warranties or 
other rights or warranties which the CITY may have or obtain. 
 
SECTION 7 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
VENDOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of VENDOR’s performance of this Contract, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  VENDOR agrees to defend CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents against any such claims. 
 
27 of 154

--- page 28 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods 
 
Page 3 of 5 
Rev 9/17 
SECTION 8 - TERMINATION 
 
 
This Contract may be terminated by mutual consent of both parties or by the CITY at its 
discretion.  The CITY may cancel an order for goods at any time with written notice to VENDOR, stating 
the extent and effective date of termination.  Upon receipt of this written notice, VENDOR shall stop 
performance under this Contract as directed by the CITY.  If the Contract is terminated, VENDOR shall 
be paid in accordance with the terms of the Contract for goods delivered and accepted. 
 
SECTION 9 - REMEDIES 
 
 
In the event of VENDOR’s breach of this Contract, City may take any or all of the following 
actions, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the City by law:  (a) require 
Vendor to repair or replace such goods, and upon VENDOR’s failure or refusal to do so, repair or 
replace the same at VENDOR’s expense; (b) reject any shipment or delivery containing defective or 
nonconforming goods and return for credit or replacement at VENDOR’s option, said return to be 
made at VENDOR’s cost and risk; (c) cancel any outstanding deliveries and treat such breach by 
VENDOR as VENDOR’s repudiation of this contract.  In the event of the CITY’s breach hereunder, 
VENDOR’s exclusive remedy shall be VENDOR’s recovery of the goods or the purchase price payable for 
goods shipped prior to such breach. 
 
SECTION 10 - COMPLIANCE WITH LAW 
 
 
VENDOR warrants that it will comply with all federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, rules 
and regulations applicable to its performance under this Contract.  VENDOR shall obtain and maintain 
throughout the life of the Contract all permits or licenses required in connection with the manufacture, 
sale, and shipment of the products ordered under this Contract.   
 
SECTION 11 - ASSIGNMENT 
 
 
VENDOR shall not delegate or subcontract any duties and services or assign any rights or claims 
under this Contract without the CITY’s prior written consent. 
 
SECTION 12 - ARTWORK, DESIGNS, PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS AND TRADEMARKS 
 
 
VENDOR hereby agrees that the sale, use or incorporation into manufactured products of all 
machines, software, hardware, materials and other devices furnished under this Contract are free and 
clear of infringement of any valid patent, copyright, or trademark.  VENDOR shall hold the CITY 
harmless from any and all costs and expenses, including attorney fees, liability, and loss of any kind 
growing out of claims, suits or actions alleging such infringement, and VENDOR agrees to defend such 
claims, suits or actions. 
 
28 of 154

--- page 29 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods 
 
Page 4 of 5 
Rev 9/17 
SECTION 13 - GOVERNING LAW 
 
 
This Purchase Order and the contract between the parties evidenced hereby or attached 
thereto shall be deemed to be made in the State of California and shall in all respects be construed and 
governed by the laws of that state. 
 
SECTION 14 - VENUE 
 
 
In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.   
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVER 
 
 
The waiver of any term, condition or provision hereof shall not be construed to be a waiver of 
any other such term, condition or provision, nor shall such waiver be deemed a waiver of a subsequent 
breach of the same term, condition or provision. 
 
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in an amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and in total amount not 
exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any 
action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Contract.  The above $5000 limit is the total of 
attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of 
the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It is the intent of this provision that neither party 
shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to 
enforce the provisions of this Contract. 
 
SECTION 17 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Contract, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the California State Board 
of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a 
"blindfolded" process. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
29 of 154

--- page 30 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods 
 
Page 5 of 5 
Rev 9/17 
 
SECTION 18 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Eric Bell 
City of San Mateo 
1961 Pacific Blvd. 
San Mateo, CA, 94403 
 
To VENDOR: 
National Auto Fleet Group 
Attn: Neal Carroll 
490 Auto Center Drive. 
Watsonville, CA 95076 
 
SECTION 19 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and VENDOR and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and VENDOR. 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and NATIONAL AUTO FLEET GROUP have executed 
this Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
VENDOR 
 
 
 
 
Azalea Mitch 
Acting Public Works Director 
 
 
 
 
 
Name 
 Its Authorized Agent 
Title 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
Gabrielle Whelan, Assistant City Attorney 
 
30 of 154

--- page 31 ---
National Auto Fleet Group 
A Division of Chevrolet of Watsonville 
490 Auto Center Drive, Watsonville, CA 95076 
(855) 289-6572 • (831) 480-8497 Fax
1/13/2021 
Ms. Cathy Huffington 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th A venue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Dear Cathy Huffington, 
Fl eet@N ati on a IAuto Fl eetGro up.com
Quote ID# HD-1427BR (R2) 
National Auto Fleet Group is pleased to quote the following vehicle(s) for your consideration. 
One (1) New/Unused (2022 Ford F-750 Diesel (F7D) Reg Cab Base 108" CA 182" WB with Versalift VST-
47-MHI,) and delivered to your specified location, each for
Sourcewell Contract Price 
$ 
Utility Crane Quote 
Tax (9.50%) 
Delivery 
Total 
-per your attached specifications:
MSRP 
76,360.00 
Sourcewell Price 
$ 
65,877.36 
$ 
113,513.00 
$ 
17,042.08 
$ 
1,400.00 
$ 
197,832.44 
Savings 
Total Saving 
13.00% 
$10,482.64 
This vehicle(s) is available under the Sourcewell {Formerly known as NJP A) Contract Number 060920-
NAF. Please reference this Contract Number on all Purchase Orders to National Auto Fleet Group. Payment 
terms are Net 20 days after receipt of vehicle. 
Thank you in advance for your consideration. Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to call. 
Sincerely, 
1guez 
Contract Manager 
HD@Nationalautofleetgroup.com 
Office (855) 289-6572 
Fax (831) 480J#J?j &)✓zi#i
RA.INII 
31 of 154

--- page 32 ---
QUOTATION
1/12/2021 Revision
National Auto Fleet Group
Ben Rodriguez 
Alhambra, CA 
Chip Reed 
Quantity
Model
Description
Price
Total
1
VST-47-MHI
Versalift VST-47-MHI, body and accessories installed on 
customer chassis per 201201 Quote letter
 $  113,513.00  $  113,513.00 
Option 
Chassis PDI
 $  
  135.00  $  
 -  
1
Delivery
Drive away delivery of completed unit
 $  
 1,400.00  $  
 1,400.00 
Note
Delivery the latter of 300 days after receipt of PO, 120 days 
after approval of body drawings, or not earlier than 120 
days after receipt of chassis from manufacturer
Note
Due to volatility in the steel and aluminum markets this 
quote will expire on 5/1/2021. After this date please 
contact your sales representative for an updated quote.
114,913.00
$   
Included
As applicable
Net 15 Days
Utility Crane and Equipment
PO Box 950
Tolleson, AZ 85353
Submitted by:
We submit for your consideration and acceptance the following equipment and prices:
Quote Number
201201
Remit to:
Utility Crane & Equipment, Inc.
10160 Redwood Ave
Fontana, CA 92335
(866) 832-4831
AERIAL BASKETS - DIGGER DERRICKS - UNDERGROUND LINE & WATER LEAK LOCATORS
Freight & Delivery:
Taxes:
Terms:
Extended Total:
Date:
To:
32 of 154

--- page 33 ---
Utility Crane & Equipment 
10160 Redwood Ave 
Fontana, CA 92335 
(866) 832-4831
Date:      1/13/21 Revision 
Quote:  201201 
Cathy Huffington 
City of San Mateo 
San Mateo, CA  
We are pleased to quote the following: VST-47-MHI Insulated 46 ft. 4 Inches (14.1 m) 
telescopic/articulating aerial platform lift, including the items listed: 
•
Manual Jib pole and winch package for up to 1000 lbs. capacity. Includes insulated jib pole that
is required by ANSI for live line lifting.
•
Platform capacity 500 Lbs. with jib installed, 600 Lbs. without jib installed
•
Truguard™ 2.0 dielectric isolating system with Right hand 4-Axis single stick control.  All control
handles are isolated and Tested per ANSI 92.2 2009. This high-resistive dielectric system is
protected from direct environmental and job-related contamination.  Truguard™ 2.0 technology
incorporates the use of full hydraulic controls with durable metal handles and linkages.  Includes
180-degree platform rotator.
•
360-degree continuous rotation.
•
Six GPM open center hydraulic system with a 3000-psi operating pressure.
•
Side mounted telescopic upper boom allows low stowing of platform.  Fiberglass inner boom
and meeting ANSI A92.2 requirements for Category C 46KV and below.
•
Chassis insulating system (fiberglass lower boom insert) providing 12 in. insulation gap and
including accommodations to bridge insulation gap for testing per ANSI 92.2
•
Non-lube bearings used throughout, except rotation bearing.
•
Individual full pressure controls at the turret actuate all boom functions and is equipped with a
selector valve to override upper controls. Also included platform leveling and winch control
•
Main modified A-frame outriggers are equipped with pilot operated check valves, internal
thermal relief valves, pivot feet, and separate controls.
•
Auxiliary modified A-frame outriggers are equipped with pilot operated check valves, internal
thermal relief valves, pivot feet, and separate controls.
•
Outrigger boom interlock system.
•
Integral reservoir with a 17-gallon capacity and dual sight gauges.
•
End mounted closed heavy-duty 24 in. X 30 in. X 42 in. fiberglass platform with one-step to
curbside.
33 of 154

--- page 34 ---
•
Platform cover
•
Platform liner
•
Backup pump for 12V chassis.
•
Upper boom storage cradle with ratchet type tie down strap.
•
Tubular rubber platform support.
•
Standard white urethane paint applied to all lift components prior to assembly.
•
XL Safety harness and lanyard.
•
Two operator manuals and service manuals.
 2022 Ford F-750 cab and chassis to the following specifications: 
•
GVWR: 33,000
•
Extra Heavy-Duty Front-End Suspension 12,000 Front axle, 21,000 rear axle
•
Transmission Power Take-Off Provision
•
108 CA
•
Diesel engine
•
6-Speed automatic transmission
•
Blue tooth equipped
Steel Line Body 156 inches long x 48 inches high x 94 inches wide 
•
20 Inches compartment depth
•
54 Inches load space width
•
30 Inches top of body to the top of the floor
•
24 Inches horizontal compartment height
•
6-inch structural sub frame with opening for unit mounting hardware
•
Stainless steel automotive single point latches
•
Stainless steel rod and socket door hinges
•
Chain stops on all doors
•
Rubber fenders
•
Automotive type weather stripping
•
Composite drop board with brackets at rear of cargo area
•
Tread plate tail shelf 24 inches long X 94 inches wide with traffic advisor cutout
•
Rear Lighting LED in tail shelf
•
LED lights in all body compartments
•
Two (2) wheel chock storage locations built into body below curb side horizontal compartment
•
Punched steel headache rack with light mounting plates
Street Side Compartments:
1st Vertical: 
▪
24” Wide x 48" High x 20" Deep
▪
Outrigger cutouts and covers
▪
Oxy/Act brackets alongside outrigger cut out
▪
Two (2) hose hooks
2nd Vertical: 
34 of 154

--- page 35 ---
▪
24” Wide x 48" High x 20" Deep
▪
Four (4) adjustable shelves with adjustable dividers
▪
Vented for Inverter and batteries
3rd Vertical: 
▪
24” Wide x 48" High x 20" Deep
▪
Five (5) adjustable shelves with adjustable dividers
Horizontal: 
▪
60” Wide x 24" High x 20" Deep
▪
One (1) adjustable shelf with adjustable dividers
▪
Adjustable dividers in compartment bottom
Rear Vertical: 
▪
3-2 hooks
▪
Outrigger cutouts and covers
Curb Side Compartments: 
1st Vertical: 
▪
24” Wide x 48" High x 20" Deep
▪
Two (2) adjustable shelves with adjustable dividers
▪
Outrigger cutouts and covers
  2nd Vertical: 
▪
24” Wide grip-strut access steps
▪
Grab handles
▪
Rubber belt step
▪
Composite drop board with brackets
3rd Vertical: 
▪
24” Wide x 48" High x 20" Deep
▪
T-Handle Locking Drawer Cabinet
•
Drawer Cabinet with One (1) Fixed Shelf Installed Above
•
T-Handle Dual Latching Drawers Mounted on 250 lb. Roller Bearing
Slides
•
Drawers will Latch Closed on RH and LH Side of Drawer
•
Drawers will have Divider Slots on 2" Centers
•
Five (5) Drawer(s) 6'' High x 14'' Wide x 15'' Deep
Horizontal: 
▪
60” Wide x 24" High x 20" Deep
▪
One (1) adjustable shelf with adjustable dividers
▪
Adjustable dividers in compartment bottom
Rear Vertical: 
▪
3-2 hooks
▪
Outrigger cutouts and covers
Installation to include the following: 
•
Install VERSALIFT VST-47-MHI, mounting hardware, outriggers, PTO and pump
35 of 154

--- page 36 ---
•
Install body and accessories
•
Paint body to match chassis cab
•
Install back-up camera supplied with chassis
•
Install Traffic advisor (LED Directional Bar) recessed in the tail shelf
•
Install combination pintle hitch with ball option, with D-rings and combination 6-pin with 4-pin
trailer connector
•
Install 5000-watt Pure Sign invertor with dual batteries in 2nd street side compartment
•
Six (6) weatherproof GFCI outlets wired to inverter. One (1) at each corner of body and one (1)
on each side.
•
Two (2) A frame reel stands 18’’W x 24H’’ reels maximum, mounted in bed tandem SS between
pedestal and platform.
•
Fabricate bracket to install A-frame or other reel holder to handle single 36” diameter x 24”
length cable reel. Can be cantilevered off back of truck (preferred) or mounted in bed.
•
Fabricate pole rack with rollers, ratchet strap tiedowns installed on street side compartment top
•
Fabricate ladder rack installed between pole rack mount uprights
•
Fabricate front bumper mounted tilting cone holder
•
Fabricate post style cone holder at curb side rear
•
Install (2) amber beacons on aerial unit turret with master switch in cab
•
Two (2) Go lights mounted on headache rack with handheld remotes and wireless dash mount
controllers
•
One (1) Go light mounted on top of body compartment at curb side rear with handheld remote
and wireless dash mount controller
•
Provision TV505-A Back up camera
•
Install park brake interlock system
•
Install mud flaps
•
Install outrigger interlock
•
Supply (4) outrigger pads
•
Supply (2) wheel chocks
•
Supply (1) 5 lbs. fire extinguisher
•
Supply (1) 3-piece triangle reflector kit
•
Test ride completed unit for one (1) hour
•
Test and certify per ANSI A92.2
Thank you for the opportunity to quote.  Please call with any questions. 
Regards, 
Chip Reed 
Regional Manager 
Utility Crane & Equipment 
(916) 413-1911
36 of 154

--- page 37 ---
Prepared by: Jesse Cooper

12/04/2020 Watsonville Ford | 550 Auto Center Drive Watsonville California | 950763728

2022 F-750 Diesel Regular Cab Base (F7D)
Price Level: 215

Selected Equip & Specs

Dimensions
* Exterior length: 291.0" * Cab to axle: 108.0"
e Exterior width: 96.7" Exterior height: 94.3"
* Wheelbase: 182.0" Front track: 83.8"
* Rear track: 72.6" ¢ Rear tire outside width: 96.0"
* Front legroom: 41.4" Front headroom: 40.7"
e Front hiproom: 67.6" Front shoulder room: 68.0"

Powertrain
* 270hp 6.7L OHV 32 valve intercooled turbo V-8 « Recommended fuel : diesel
engine with diesel direct injection
* federal * 6 speed automatic transmission with overdrive
¢ Rear-wheel drive ¢ Fuel Economy Cty: N/A
e Fuel Economy Highway: N/A e 50.0 gal. rectangular Left front fuel tank
e Fuel/water separator * Transmission PTO provision
¢ Standard rear differential ¢ Right mounted horizontal muffler

e Right mounted horizontal tailpipe

Suspension/Handling
* Front non-independent leaf spring suspension Rear rigid axle leaf spring suspension
e Hydraulic power-assist re-circulating ball Steering ¢ Front and rear 22.5 x 8.25 wheels
* 11.0R22.5 AS front and rear tires ¢ Dual rear wheels
e Rubber auxiliary rear springs

Body Exterior
e 2 doors e Driver and passenger , manual folding door mirrors
e Black door mirrors « Black bumpers
» Side steps ¢ Clearcoat paint
* Straight front bumper ends « Hood mounted grille
* Front and rear 22.5 x 8.25 white steel wheels with « 2 front tow hook(s)
10 wheel studs
Convenience
* Manual air conditioning ¢ Cruise control with steering wheel controls
* Power front windows * Driver and passenger 1-touch up
* Driver and passenger 1-touch down * Power door locks
« Manual tilt steering wheel « Manual telescopic steering wheel
* Day-night rearview mirror « Wireless phone connectivity
e Front cupholders « Passenger visor mirror
* Back-up alarm ¢ Dual electric horn

Prices and content availability as shown are subject to change and should be treated as estimates only. Actual base vehicle, package and option pricing
may vary from this estimate because of special local pricing, availability or pricing adjustments not reflected in the dealer’s computer system. See
salesperson for the most current information.

37 of 154


--- page 38 ---
Prepared by: Jesse Cooper
12/04/2020

2022 F-750 Diesel Regular Cab Base (F7D)
Price Level: 215

Cel

Watsonville Ford | 550 Auto Center Drive Watsonville California | 950763728

selected Equip & Specs (cont'd)

« Automatic gearshift steering column lever
¢ Upfitter switches

Seats and Trim
* Seating capacity of 2
e« Fixed passenger seat
e Bucket driver seat, Bucket passenger seat
e Low back seats

¢ Manual fore/aft seats

Entertainment Features
e« AM/FM stereo radio
¢ Steering wheel mounted radio controls
« Streaming audio

Lighting, Visibility and Instrumentation
¢« Halogen aero-composite headlights
e Fully automatic headlights
*« Speed sensitive wipers
¢ Front reading lights
¢ Oil pressure gauge
¢ Trip computer
« RNDM

Safety and Security

« 4-wheel ABS brakes
« Hydraulic disc brakes
* Power door locks

Dimensions

General Weights

* Curb 10,176 ibs.
Rear GAWR 21000 Ibs.
GCWR 50000 Ibs.

Front Weights

+ Front curb weight

*Front spring rating

Rear Weights

6,376 Ibs.
13,200 Ibs.

* Driver and passenger door bins

Fixed driver seat

Driver and passenger armrests

Driver seat folding back, passenger seat fixed back
Driver seat with 4 way direction control, passenger
seat with 2 way direction control

Auxiliary audio input
2 speakers
Fixed antenna

Delay-off headlights

Variable intermittent front windshield wipers
Light tinted windows

Tachometer

Oil temperature gauge

Trip odometer

Hill hold contro!
ABS traction control
With stolen vehicle tracking system

Front GAWR 12000 Ibs.
GVWR 33000 Ibs.
*Front axle capacity 12,000 Ibs.
Front tire/wheel capacity 12,350 Ibs.

Prices and content availability as shown are subject to change and should be treated as estimates only. Actual base vehicle, package and option pricing
may vary from this estimate because of special local pricing, availability or pricing adjustments not reflected in the dealer's computer system. See

salesperson for the most current information.

2
38 of 154


--- page 39 ---
Prepared by: Jesse Cooper

12/04/2020

Price Level: 215

D>

Watsonville Ford | 550 Auto Center Drive Watsonville California | 950763728
2022 F-750 Diesel Regular Cab Base (F7D)

Selected Equip & Specs (cont'd)

* Rear curb weight
Rear spring rating

Fuel Tank type

Left front Fuel tank capacity

Front Frame
Height loaded

Rear Frame
Height loaded

Powertrain

Engine Type
Biock material
Head material
Injection
Orientation
Valves per cylinder
Forced induction

Engine Spec

Bore
Displacement

Engine Power
Output

3,800 Ibs.
21,000 Ibs.

50.01 gal.

35 Ww

36 "

lron

Aluminum

Diesel direct injection
Longitudinal

4

intercooled turbo

3.90"
406 cu.in.

270 HP @ 2,400 RPM

Governed RPM 3,200
Alternator

Type HD
Battery

Cold cranking amps 1,500

Step Yes
Transmission

Electronic control Yes

Overdrive Yes

Type Automatic
Transmission Gear Ratios

1st 3.974

3rd 1.516

5th 0.858

Reverse Gear ratios 3.128

Rear axle capacity

Rear tire/wheel capacity

Height unloaded

Height unloaded

Cylinders

Ignition

Liters
Recommended fuel
Valvetrain

Compression ratio
Stroke

Torque

Amps

Location
Type

Lock-up
Speed

2nd
4th
6th

21,000 Ibs.
23,360 Ibs.

37"

38 "

V-8
Compression
6.7L

Diesel

OHV

16.2:1
4.25"

700 ft.-lb @ 1,500 RPM

200

Forward right
Dual

Yes
6

2.318
1.149
0.674

Prices and content availability as shown are subject to change and should be treated as estimates only. Actual base vehicle, package and option pricing
may vary from this estimate because of special local pricing, availability or pricing adjustments not reflected in the dealer's computer system. See
salesperson for the most current information.

3
39 of 154


--- page 40 ---
Prepared by: Jesse Cooper

12/04/2020 Watsonville Ford | 550 Auto Center Drive Watsonville California | 950763728

2022 F-750 Diesel Regular Cab Base (F7D)
Price Level: 215

selected Equip & Specs (cont'd)

Transmission Torque Converter

Stall ratio

Transmission Extras

Front Suspension

1.85

Driver selectable mode Tow/Haul Mode Sequential shift control Yes
Oil cooler Regular duty *PTO provision Yes
Drive Type
Type Rear-wheel
Drive Feature
Traction control ABS
Drive Axle
* Ratio 5,57
Exhaust
Material Aluminized steel System type Single
Emissions
CARB Federal
Engine Retarder
Type Yes
Driveability
Brakes
ABS 4-wheel ABS channels 4
Type Hydraulic disc Vented discs Front and rear
Brake Assistance
Hill hold control Yes
Suspension Control
Ride Regular

independence Non-independent Type Leaf
Front Spring

Type Tapered leaf Grade Regular
Front Shocks

Type Regular
Rear Suspension

Independence Rigid axle Type Leaf

Prices and content availability as shown are subject to change and should be treated as estimates only. Actual base vehicle, package and option pricing
may vary from this estimate because of special local pricing, availability or pricing adjustments not reflected in the dealer's computer system. See
salesperson for the most current information.

40 of 154


--- page 41 ---
Prepared by: Jesse Cooper
12/04/2020

2022 F-750 Diesel Regular Cab Base (F7D)
Price Level: 215

Selected Equip & Specs (cont'd)

Rear Spring

Type Multi-leaf

Auxiliary Rubber
Steering

Activation Hydraulic power-assist
Steering Specs

# of wheels 2

Exterior

Front Wheels

Diameter 22.5"
Rear Wheels
Diameter 22.5"
Dual Yes
Front Tires
Aspect 82
Sidewalls BSW
Width 41.0"
RPM 497
Rear Tires
Aspect 82
Sidewalls BSW
Width 11.0"
RPM 497
Wheels
Front track 83.8"
* Turning radius (to curb) 25°
+ Wheelbase 182.0"
Body Features
Front splash guards Yes
Body material Composite/galvanized steel
Front tow hook(s) 2
Body Doors
Door count 2
Exterior Dimensions
*Length 291.0"

Grade

Type

Width

Width

Diameter
Tread
LT load rating

Diameter
Tread
LT load rating

Rear track
* Turning radius (to bumper)

Rear tire outside width

*Rear splash guards
Side steps

Body width

D>

Watsonville Ford | 550 Auto Center Drive Watsonville California | 950763728

Regular

Re-circulating ball

8.25"

8.25"

22.5"

72.6"
26
96.0"

Yes
Yes

96.7"

Prices and content availability as shown are subject to change and should be treated as estimates only. Actual base vehicle, package and option pricing
may vary from this estimate because of special local pricing, availability or pricing adjustments not reflected in the dealer's computer system. See
salesperson for the most current information.

5
41 of 154


--- page 42 ---
Prepared by: Jesse Cooper

12/04/2020 Watsonville Ford | 550 Auto Center Drive Watsonville California | 950763728

2022 F-750 Diesel Regular Cab Base (F7D)
Price Level: 215

Selected Equip & Specs (cont'd)

Body height 94.3" *Cab to axle 108.0"
* Axle to end of frame 70.0" Frame section modulus 15.14¢u.in.
Frame yield strength (psi) 80000.0 Frame rail depth 10.3"
Frame rail width 3.1" Frame rail thickness 0.4"
Max RBM (in.-Ibs.) 1,275,200.0 Frame rail section 9.5"
Front bumper to Front axle 39.0" Nominal RBM (in.-lbs.) 1,211,200.0
Seating

Passenger Capacity
Capacity 2

Driver Seat
Type Bucket Back Folding
Back type Low Way direction control 4
Fore/aft Manual

Passenger Seat
Type Bucket Back Fixed
Back type Low Way direction control 2
Fore/aft Manual

Front Armrest
Driver Yes Passenger Yes

Front Seat Trim
Material Vinyl Back material Carpet

Convenience

AC And Heat Type

Air conditioning Manual
Audio System

Auxiliary audio input Yes Radio AM/FM stereo

Radio grade Regular Seek-scan Yes
Audio Speakers

Speaker type Regular Speakers 2
Audio Controls

Steering wheel controls Yes Streaming audio Yes
Audio Antenna

Type Fixed

Cruise Control

Prices and content availability as shown are subject to change and shouid be treated as estimates only. Actual base vehicle, package and option pricing
may vary from this estimate because of special local pricing, availability or pricing adjustments not reflected in the dealer's computer system. See
salesperson for the most current information.
6
42 of 154


--- page 43 ---
Prepared by: Jesse Cooper
12/04/2020

>

Watsonville Ford | 550 Auto Center Drive Watsonville California | 950763728

2022 F-750 Diesel Regular Cab Base (F7D)
Price Level: 215

Selected Equip & Specs (cont'd)

Cruise control

Convenience Features

Driver foot rest
Wireless phone connectivity

Horn

Door Lock Activation
* Type

Instrumentation Type
Display
Instrumentation Gauges
Tachometer
Engine temperature
Transmission fluid temp
Instrumentation Warnings
Oil pressure
Lights on
Low fuel
Service interval
Transmission fluid temp
Instrumentation Displays
Clock
Instrumentation Feature
Trip computer
Shift indicator
Steering Wheel Type
Material
Telescoping
Front Side Windows
+ Window 1st row activation

Window Features
*1-touch down
Tinted
Front Windshield
Wiper
Rear Windshield

With steering wheel controls

Yes
Bluetooth

Dual electric

Power

Analog

Yes
Yes
Yes

Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes

in-radio display

Yes
RNDM

Urethane
Manual

Power

Driver and passenger

Light

Variable intermittent

12V DC power outlet
* Back-up alarm

Upfitter switches

* Auto locking

Oil pressure
Oil temperature
Engine hour meter

Battery

Key

Door ajar

Brake fluid

Trip odometer

Tilting

*1-touch up

Speed sensitive wipers

Yes
Yes

Yes

Yes
Yes
Yes

Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes

Yes

Manual

Driver and passenger

Yes

Prices and content availability as shown are subject to change and should be treated as estimates only. Actual base vehicle, package and option pricing
may vary from this estimate because of special local pricing, availability or pricing adjustments not reflected in the dealer's computer system. See
salesperson for the most current information.

7
43 of 154


--- page 44 ---
Prepared by: Jesse Cooper

12/04/2020 Watsonville Ford | 550 Auto Center Drive Watsonville California | 950763728

2022 F-750 Diesel Regular Cab Base (F7D)
Price Level: 215

Selected Equip & Specs (cont'd)

Window Fixed
Automatic Gearshift
Location Steering column lever
Interior

Passenger Visor

Mirror Yes
Rear View Mirror
* Day-night Yes
Headliner
Coverage Full Material Cloth
Floor Trim
Coverage Full Covering Vinyl/rubber
Trim Feature
Gear shifter material Urethane
Lighting
Dome light type Delay Front reading Yes
Variable IP lighting Yes
Floor Console Storage
Type Partial
Storage
* Driver door bin Yes Front Beverage holder(s) Yes
Glove box Yes * Passenger door bin Yes
Instrument panel Bin Dashboard Yes
Legroom
Front 41.4"
Headroom
Front 40.7"
Hip Room
Front 67.6"
Shoulder Room
Front 68.0"

Prices and content availability as shown are subject to change and should be treated as estimates only. Actual base vehicle, package and option pricing
may vary from this estimate because of special local pricing, availability or pricing adjustments not reflected in the dealer's computer system. See
salesperson for the most current information.

44 of 154


--- page 45 ---
Prepared by: Jesse Cooper

12/04/2020 Watsonville Ford | 550 Auto Center Drive Watsonville California | 950763728
2022 F-750 Diesel Regular Cab Base (F7D)
Price Level: 215

As Configured Vehicle
Code Description MSRP

Base Vehicle

F7D Base Vehicle Price (F7D) $71,345.00
Engines
99C 6.7L Power Stroke V8 Turbo Diesel - STD

270 HP @ 2400 RPM

Includes Engine Exhaust Brake and manual regen capability. Torque: 700
ft.los. @ 1500 rpm.

Governed RPM: 3200. Includes CARB clean idle label - may be removed if un-necessary.

425 50-State Emissions N/C
Transmissions
44G Ford TorqShift HD 6-Speed STD

Automatic - Double Overdrive, less
PTO Provision, less Park Pawl

41A Transmission Power Take-Off $895.00
Provision w/LiveDrive Capability and
Tow/Haul

Front Wheels & Tires

643 Wheels, Front 22.5x8.25 White STD
Powder Coated Steel, 10-Hole
(285, 75MM BC) hub piloted, flanged nut, metric mount, 8.25 DC rims; with steel hubs.

T2B Tires, Front Two 11R22.5G STD

Goodyear Fuel Max RSA (497
rev/mile)

Rear Wheels & Tires

663 Wheels, Rear 22.5x8.25 White STD
Powder Coated Steel, 10-Hole
(285.75MM BC) hub piloted, flanged nut, metric mount, 8.25 DC rims; with steel hubs.

R2B Tires, Rear Four 11R22.5G STD
Goodyear Fuel Max RSA (497
rev/mile)

Prices and content availability as shown are subject to change and should be treated as estimates only. Actual base vehicle, package and option pricing
may vary from this estimate because of special local pricing, availability or pricing adjustments not reflected in the dealer’s computer system. See
salesperson for the most current information.
9
45 of 154


--- page 46 ---
Prepared by: Jesse Cooper
12/04/2020

p>

Watsonville Ford | 550 Auto Center Drive Watsonville California | 950763728

2022 F-750 Diesel Regular Cab Base (F7D)

Price Level: 215

As Configured Vehicle (cont'd)

Code

Brakes

67H

Front Axle and Suspension

43P

61E

Rear Axle and Suspension

475

68P

X5D
Wheelbase

182WB

Frame

535

Exhaust

91G

Description MSRP

Hydraulic Brake System - Bosch STD

HydroMax w/Traction Control

Full power with automatic adjustment, 4-channel ABS antilock brake system. Includes 12" x 3"
(Bosch) DSSA type rear axle mounted parking brake, Orschein lever control, right of driver and
hand operated park brake lever.

12,000 lb. Cap. Non-Driving - Dana $525.00
E-1202I - |-Beam Type
Taper-Leaf Springs, Parabolic - $365.00
13,200 Ib. Cap
S3leaf, 62” x 3.15", Also includes, standard duty, dual, double acting shock absorbers.
21,000 tb. Single Reduction - Open - STD
Dana / Spicer 21060S
NOTE: When specifying an axle ratio, check performance guidelines for startability and gradeability.
Multi-Leaf Springs - 21,000 Ib. Cap STD
11-leaf. Includes 2,000 !b auxiliary springs for load stabilization.
5.57 Axle Ratio N/C
182" Wheelbase/108" CA/70" $210.00
AF/291" OAL
Single Channel - Straight 'C' 15.14 STD
SM, 80,000 PSI
1,271,200 RBM. High strength low alloy steel. 10.250" x 3.092" x 0.375" (260.4mm x 78.5mm x
9.51 :
Ircludes:
- GVWR Limit: 37,000 Ibs.
STD

Under Cab, Right Side Outlet,
Switchback-Style

Single, horizontal muffler, right side, under cab, outside of frame rail with rear discharge.

Prices and content availability as shown are subject to change and should be treated as estimates only. Actual base vehicle, package and option pricing
may vary from this estimate because of special local pricing, availability or pricing adjustments not reflected in the dealer's computer system. See

salesperson for the most current information.

10
46 of 154


--- page 47 ---
Prepared by: Jesse Cooper

12/04/2020 Watsonville Ford | 550 Auto Center Drive Watsonville California | 950763728

2022 F-750 Diesel Regular Cab Base (F7D)
Price Level: 215

As Configured Vehicle (cont'd)

Code Description MSRP
Fuel Tanks
65B Fuel Tank - LH 50 Gallon STD

Rectangular - Aluminum

12 12 Gal. Single Tank Fuel Fill $0.00
Mandatory Charge Applied, Based
On Tank Selection

Electrical / Alternator / Battery

STDALT Extra Heavy Duty Alternator - 12-Volt, Included
200 Amp Denso SC5

55M Jump Start Stud - Remote Mounted $90.00

STDBAT Battery - Two 750 CCA, 1500 Total, STD

Includes Steel Battery Box
12Volt, Motorcraft.

17M Back-Up Alarm - Electric, 102 dBA $110.00
962 Daytime Running Lamps (Not $25.00
Configurable)
Seats
88A 30/0/30 Fixed Driver & Fixed STD

Passenger w/Consolette - Vinyl

Cab Interior

600A Preferred Equipment Package 600A NIC

Includes:
- Bumper, Front - Black, Full Width
- Wheel Seals, Front - Oil lubricated, SKF ScotSeal PlusXL Seals
- Wheel Seals, Rear - Oil lubricated, SKF ScotSeal PlusXL Seals
- Manual Regen Initiation - Driver interface in Message Center
- Engine Exhaust Brake
- Extra Heavy Duty Alternator - 12-Volt, 200 Amp Denso SC5
- Painted Grille - Plastic
- Lights - Roof Marker/Clearance - Amber Lenses, 5 Lights
- Tow Hooks, Front (2) - Frame-Mounted, Painted Black
- Four Body Builder Switches - Mounted in Center Instrument Panel
With connector access located in engine compartment. Amperages vary by switch: 10, 15, 25, 25.
- Floor Covering - Black Viny!
~ Intelligent Oil Life Monitor
- Steering Column - Tilt/ Telescoping
- Steering Wheel - Black PVC w/integral Cruise Contro] Switches, includes Audio Controls
- Body Builder Wiring - At Back of Cab, Combined
Includes sealed connectors for 2 ground circuits, with combined left/stop, combined right/stop,
park lamps, back up lamps. Also includes 2 additional pass through wires to cab.

NEE
Prices and content availability as shown are subject to change and should be treated as estimates only. Actual base vehicle, package and option pricing

may vary from this estimate because of special local pricing, availability or pricing adjustments not reflected in the dealer’s computer system. See
salesperson for the most current information.
11
47 of 154


--- page 48 ---
Prepared by: Jesse Cooper

12/04/2020

>

Watsonville Ford | 550 Auto Center Drive Watsonville California | 950763728

2022 F-750 Diesel Regular Cab Base (F7D)

Price Level: 215

As Configured Vehicle (cont'd)

Code

90P

588

90M

Cab Exterior

54H

166
Ship-Thru

21A

31F

Miscellaneous

PAINT

Interior Colors

E01

Primary Colors

YZ_01

Description MSRP
Power Equipment Group - (Included $470.00
in (90A) Appearance Group)

Includes power front side windows, power door locks and door trim panel.

Radio: AM/FM Stereo w/2 Speakers, STD
USB input, Clock Display and

Bluetooth

Interior Rear View Mirror $75.00
Mirrors, Dual - Rectangular, XL2020 - STD
96” Width

Integral spot mirror, sail type, manual fold, solid black finish.

Mud Flap Holder With Flaps $155.00
N/C

Pre-Delivery Inspection

Selection requires that you also choose either (314) or (31F) or (31V) to have
the Inspection performed. Required with any final Ship-To that is not a dealer.

Ship-Thru - NFS National Fleet NIC
Services
MAY be selected w/o adding (21A). For MODIFICATIONS ONLY, Dealer must

make arrangements directly with NFS (please use CVT Resources for add.
Info).

SUBTOTAL

Paint Type - Environmentally STD

Friendly, "3 - Wet System"

Gray N/C

Oxford White N/C
$74,265.00

Prices and content availability as shown are subject to change and should be treated as estimates only. Actual base vehicle, package and option pricing

may vary from this estimate because of special local pricing, availability or pricing adjustments not reflected in the dealer's computer system. See

salesperson for the most current information.

12
48 of 154


--- page 49 ---
Prepared by: Jesse Cooper

12/04/2020 Watsonville Ford | 550 Auto Center Drive Watsonville California | 950763728

2022 F-750 Diesel Regular Cab Base (F7D)
Price Level: 215

As Configured Vehicle (cont'd)

Code Description MSRP
Destination Charge $2,095.00
TOTAL $76,360.00

tt i pn

Prices and content availability as shown are subject to change and should be treated as estimates only. Actual base vehicle, package and option pricing
may vary from this estimate because of special local pricing, availability or pricing adjustments not reflected in the dealer's computer system. See
salesperson for the most current information.

13
49 of 154


--- page 50 ---
Prepared by: Jesse Cooper

12/04/2020 Watsonville Ford | 550 Auto Center Drive Watsonville California | 950763728

2022 F-750 Diesel Regular Cab Base (F7D)
Price Level: 215

Vehicle Dimension and Performance Summary

Performance predictions in this report represent an estimate of vehicle performance based on standard operating
conditions. Variations in customer equipment, load configuration, ambient conditions, and/or operator driving techniques
can cause significant variations in vehicle performance. These values are not representative of results that may be shown
in actual dynamometer tests. This report should therefore be used as a guide for comparative vehicle performance.

Dimensions
A Front of Bumper to Front Axle 39.00 in.
B Front Bumper to Back of Cab (BBC) 113.00 in.
Cc Wheeibase (WB) 182.00 in.
D Overall Length (OAL) 291.00 in.
E Back of Cab to Rear Axle (CA) 108.00 in.
F Back of Cab to End of Frame 178.00 in.
G Rear Axle to End of Frame (AF) 70.00 in.
H Frame Section Height 10.30 in.
l Rear Frame Height Unloaded 38.00 in.
| Rear Frame Height Loaded 36.50 in.
J Cab Height 94.30 in.
K Body Width 96.70 in.
L Maximum Ground Clearance N/A
L Minimum Ground Clearance N/A
M Front Tread 83.80 in.
M Rear Tread 72.60 in.

tr
Prices and content availability as shown are subject to change and should be treated as estimates only. Actual base vehicle, package and option pricing

may vary from this estimate because of special local pricing, availability or pricing adjustments not reflected in the dealer's computer system. See
salesperson for the most current information.

14
50 of 154


--- page 51 ---
Prepared by: Jesse Cooper

12/04/2020 Watsonville Ford | 550 Auto Center Drive Watsonville California | 950763728

2022 F-750 Diesel Regular Cab Base (F7D)
Price Level: 215

Vehicle Dimension and Performance Summary (cont'd)

Weight
GVW Front Axle Rear Axle Totals
Chassis 6,376 Ibs 3,800 Ibs 10,176 lbs
Body 0 lbs 0 Ibs 0 Ibs
Occupants Weight 200 Ibs 100 lbs 300 Ibs
1 Max Payload - (Max Payload) 5,424 lbs 17,100 ibs 22,524 lbs
TOTAL 12,000 Ibs 21,000 Ibs 33,000 Ibs
Ratings Front Axle Rear Axle GVWR
GAWR 12,000 Ibs 21,000 Ibs 33,000 Ibs
Wheels/Tires 12,350 Ibs 23,360 Ibs
Suspension 13,200 Ibs 21,000 Ibs
Axle 12,000 Ibs 21,000 Ibs
Legal Axie Limit 0 Ibs 0 ibs

Prices and content availability as shown are subject to change and should be treated as estimates only. Actual base vehicle, package and option pricing
may vary from this estimate because of special local pricing, availability or pricing adjustments not reflected in the dealer's computer system. See
salesperson for the most current information.

15
51 of 154


--- page 52 ---
Prepared by: Jesse Cooper

12/04/2020 Watsonville Ford | 550 Auto Center Drive Watsonville California | 950763728
2022 F-750 Diesel Regular Cab Base (F7D)
Price Level: 215

Vehicle Dimension and Performance Summary (cont'd)
Start, Grade and Speed

Shift Indicator

Vehicle equipped without Park Pawi. Shift indicator will display RNDM.

Start Ratio Desired Calculated
Start grade capability in 1st gear 3.97 15.00 % 20.17 %
Start grade capability in reverse 3.13 15.00 % 15.88 %
Grade Ratio Desired Calculated
Maximum grade in 4th gear 1.15 3.00 % 6.31 %
Maximum grade in 5th gear 0.86 3.00 % 4.71%
Maximum grade in 6th gear 0.67 3.00 % 3.70 %
Speed Desired Calculated
Top Speed (level grade) 75 mph 103 mph

To meet your requirement you need a maximum axle ratio of 7.64

Top Speed on 3.0% grade 55 mph

To meet your requirement you need a maximum of 197 hp

Cruise Speed 60 mph 74 mph
Engine RPM at desired cruise speed 1,866 rom

Variables in Use

Rear axle ratio: 5.57/5.57 Governed RPM: 3,200 rom

Tire size: 11R22.5 (497 Frontal Area: 57.28 Sq.Ft.
revimile) Cruising RPM 2,300 rpm

Gross Vehicle Weight (GVW): 33,000 Ibs Worst road surface Typical Highway

Clutch engagement torque: 350 ft-lbs. Final Drive Ratio: 0.67

Torque conversion ratio: 1.85 Drag Coefficient 0.80

Peak engine torque: 700 ft.lbs.

Engine Power: 270 hp @ 2,400 rpm

eee
Prices and content availability as shown are subject to change and should be treated as estimates only. Actual base vehicle, package and option pricing

may vary from this estimate because of special local pricing, availability or pricing adjustments not reflected in the dealer's computer system. See
salesperson for the most current information.
16
52 of 154


--- page 53 ---
Prepared by: Jesse Cooper
42/04/2020

>

Watsonville Ford | 550 Auto Center Drive Watsonville California | 950763728

2022 F-750 Diesel Regular Cab Base (F7D)

Price Level: 215

Vehicle Dimension and Performance Summary (cont'd)

Shift Chart

Shift Chart displays mathematical geared speed.

Diesel engines use Governed RPM for shift points.

Gas engines use Peak Torque RPM for shift points.

— Gear Shift -- Peak Torque RPM ~~ Cruising RPM Cruise Speed — Peak HP RPM — Governed RPM

6 -h—— a aoeeneneaet angen ap Sanaa gene SOR DONS VO SORED Ss = naman = — = ane soe |
ie] 5 10 15 20 25 36 35 40 «645 50 55 60 65 7O 75 «680 85 90 95 100 105 110 115 120
mph
Turning Radius
Turning radius to curb: 24.80 ft
Turning radius to bumper: 26.41 ft

Prices and content availability as shown are subject to change and should be treated as estimates only. Actual base vehicle, package and option pricing
may vary from this estimate because of special local pricing, availability or pricing adjustments not reflected in the dealer's computer system. See

salesperson for the most current information.

17
53 of 154


--- page 54 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4190
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
February 01, 2021 
SUBJECT:
California Department of Transportation Sustainable Communities Grant Application – Letter of Support
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a letter of support to the California Department of Transportation for the fiscal year 2021-22 Sustainable 
Communities Grant application; and authorize the Mayor to sign the letter on behalf of the City Council in substantially the 
form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The Public Works Department, Community Development Department, and the City Manager's Office are jointly drafting a 
grant application in response to the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) Sustainable Communities Grant 
fiscal year 2021-22 call for projects. If awarded, the grant will be used for the development of the San Mateo Complete 
Streets Plan. This effort intends to complement the City’s ongoing General Plan Update by creating an actionable 
transportation plan rooted in safety for all modes, resulting in policies, goals, and prioritized projects that are focused on 
improving mobility, equity, connectivity, and sustainability. The plan will combine existing transportation and related plans 
with a data-driven safety analysis to identify priority areas and projects in the City to implement a cohesive, safe 
transportation network for all users.
The grant amount to be requested for the project is approximately $500,000. As part of the grant application, letters of 
support are strongly encouraged. Staff requests the City Council consider the letter of support for this grant application, 
and authorize the Mayor to sign the letter on behalf of the Council. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for submitting a letter supporting the grant application. There is a required minimum 11.47% 
local match, and sufficient Measure A funds are available to fulfill the required local match. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This letter is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Draft Letter of Support
STAFF CONTACT
54 of 154

--- page 55 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
55 of 154

--- page 56 ---
February 2, 2021
California Department of Transportation
Division of Transportation Planning
1120 N Street
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Grant Proposal for the City of San Mateo Complete Streets Plan
To Whom It May Concern,
On behalf of the San Mateo City Council, I am writing to express the Council’s strong support of the City of 
San Mateo’s grant application for the Caltrans Sustainable Communities program for the proposed San 
Mateo Complete Streets Plan. This plan seeks to make streets safe and accessible for all modes and abilities, 
and will implement context-sensitive design approaches to increase citywide mobility by identifying priority 
areas and projects based on a data-driven collision analysis effort. 
The proposed Complete Streets Plan complements the City’s General Plan Update by creating an actionable 
plan rooted in safety for all modes, and will result in policies, goals, and prioritized projects that are focused 
on improving mobility, equity, connectivity, and sustainability to build a better circulation network for the 
City’s future. The Plan will create projects that are planned, designed, constructed, and maintained for all 
roadway users, allowing the City to develop a safe mobility network for many years to come.
Given the effort of the City and region to encourage multimodal transportation, transportation safety, and 
equitable access to transportation, identifying necessary improvements for the circulation network to 
accommodate all modes is of utmost importance.  Toward this end, the Council strongly supports the City of 
San Mateo’s grant application for this project. 
Thank you for your time and consideration.
Sincerely,
 
Eric Rodriguez
Mayor
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
    
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR
    
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403-1338
                                                     www.cityofsanmateo.org  
(650) 522-7040
56 of 154

--- page 57 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4076
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
February 01, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Service Employees International Union Local 521 Non-Merit Part Time Unit – Memorandum of Understanding Extension
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to extend the Memorandum of Understanding with the Service Employees International Union Local 
521 Non-Merit Part Time Unit through September 4, 2021.
BACKGROUND:
This bargaining unit represents approximately 350 per diem workers throughout the City who work in excess of 416 hours 
per fiscal year. The current MOU expired on June 13, 2020. Negotiations with Service Employees International Union (SEIU) 
Local 521 were delayed due to a change in their local representative and the impacts of COVID-19 on normal business 
operations. 
The City’s Human Resources Department and the SEIU Local 521 recommend extending this contract for 15 months, from 
June 14, 2020 through September 4, 2021. This extension will allow the parties time to negotiate a successor contract with 
the SEIU Local 521 Maintenance Unit and assess the impact those negotiated changes may have on the SEIU Local 521 
Non-Merit Part Time Unit.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There will be no budget impact as a result of the SEIU Local 521Non-Merit Part Time Unit contract extension.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
            Exhibit A - Tentative Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Teresa Abrahamsohn, Deputy Human Resources Director
tabrahamsohn@cityofsanmateo.org
650.522.7276
57 of 154

--- page 58 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2021) 
ADOPTING AN EXTENSION TO THE MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE 
CITY OF SAN MATEO AND THE SERVICES EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (SEIU)  
NON-MERIT PART TIME UNIT 
WHEREAS, the Service Employees International Union Local 521 Non-Merit Part Time Unit (“SEIU 
NMPT”) existing Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) expired on June 13, 2020; and 
WHEREAS, the SEIU NMPT classifications are tied to classifications in other SEIU Units; and 
WHEREAS, the parties have met and conferred, and have reached tentative agreement to continue the 
current terms and conditions of the existing MOU for fifteen (15) month from June 14, 2020 through Sept 4, 
2021; and 
WHEREAS, the SEIU NMPT Unit has ratified the Tentative Agreement; and 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1. The existing Memorandum of Understanding for the SEIU NMPT Unit shall be extended for fifteen
(15) months, from June 14, 2020 through September 4, 2021 as set forth in the Tentative Agreement
attached as Exhibit A.
2.
There is no budget impact for FY2021.
58 of 154

--- page 59 ---
City of San Mateo and SEIU Local 521  
Extension of Memorandum of Understanding for the Non-Merit Part-Time Unit 
The City of San Mateo (“City”) and the Service Employees International Union Local 521 
(“SEIU”) agree to a fifteen (15) month extension to the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) 
for employees in classifications represented by the Non-Merit Part-Time Unit.  All terms and 
conditions in the existing MOU and previous extension letters shall remain in full force and 
effect unless modified by this Agreement. 
This Agreement shall terminate as of 11:59 p.m., September 4, 2021. 
SEIU 521 
City of San Mateo 
_____________________ 
________________________ 
Bryan Evans  
Stacey Cue 
_____________________ 
_________________________ 
Varvara Vorobieva 
 
Teresa Abrahamsohn 
Dated:  _____________________ 
DocuSign Envelope ID: CE08CAC8-9BC4-4D27-83D1-A5C04F0C973F
1/7/2021
Signing In Process
Exhibit A
59 of 154

--- page 60 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4077
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
February 01, 2021 
SUBJECT:
San Mateo City Employees Association – Memorandum of Understanding Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the San Mateo City Employees' Association for a 
term through June 25, 2022 with the option to extend through June 24, 2023.
BACKGROUND:
The San Mateo City Employees Association (SMCEA) represents approximately 125 employees throughout the City. 
Negotiations with the San Mateo City Employees Association concluded on December 28, 2020, and the membership 
subsequently ratified the proposed changes to their Memorandum of Understanding. Consistent with the direction 
provided by the City Council, negotiators for the City and the bargaining unit have reached agreement. 
These agreements include: 
Term: The contract will be extended for one additional year, expiring on June 25, 2022. 
Salary: The bargaining unit will receive a 1.0% salary increase effective January 9, 2022. 
Vacation Allowance: Employees will begin accruing vacation with pay upon hire rather than receiving vacation accruals six 
months after their hire date. 
Retirement Health Savings: Effective July 11, 2021, the City’s contribution will decrease from 1.0% to 0.50%. The City’s 
contribution will return to 1.0% on June 26, 2022 unless extended by the Unit as outlined below. 
MOU Extension Option: SMCEA has the sole discretion to extend the terms and conditions of the MOU with the following 
provisions; 
- Notify the City in writing by March 15, 2022 that they will exercise their right to extend the MOU 
- Term: The Agreement shall be extended another additional year, expiring on June 24, 2023 
- Salary: The bargaining unit will receive a 1.0% salary increase effective January 13, 2023 
- Retiree Health Savings: The City's contribution will remain at 0.50% through the term of the extension 
(June 24, 2023) and return to 1.0% on June 25, 2023. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact in the current fiscal year for these recommended changes. The budget impact for fiscal years 
2021-22 and 2022-23 will be a total decrease of $677,679. Updated salary and benefit amounts for these positions will be 
60 of 154

--- page 61 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
incorporated into the 2021-22 and 2022-23 budgets.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
            Exhibit A - Tentative Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Teresa Abrahamsohn, Deputy Human Resources Director
tabrahamsohn@cityofsanmateo.org
650.522.7276
61 of 154

--- page 62 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2021) 
APPROVING AMENDMENTS TO THE MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE 
CITY OF SAN MATEO AND THE SAN MATEO CITY EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION 
WHEREAS, the amendments are related to salary, term, and other pays; and 
WHEREAS, the parties have met and conferred, and have reached tentative agreement to amend the 
Unit’s MOU; and 
WHEREAS, the Unit has ratified the Tentative Agreement; and 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1. The amendments to the Memorandum of Understanding for the San Mateo City Employees
Association, set forth in the Tentative Agreements attached as Exhibit A, are approved and
summarized as follows:
Term:  The contract will be extended for 1 additional year, expiring on June 25, 2022. 
Salary: The bargaining unit will receive a 1.0% salary increase effective January 9, 2022. 
Vacation: Employees will begin accruing vacation with pay upon hire. 
Retirement Health Savings: Effective July 11, 2021, the City’s contribution will decrease from 1.0% to 
0.50%. The City’s contribution will return to 1.0% on June 26, 2022. 
MOU Extension Option: SMCEA has the sole discretion to extend the terms and conditions of the 
MOU with the following provisions;  
- Notify the City in writing on or before March 15, 2022 that they will exercise their right to 
extend the MOU  
- Term: The Agreement shall be extended additional year, expiring on June 24, 2023 
- Salary: The bargaining unit will receive a 1.0% salary increase effective January 13, 2023 
- Retiree Health Savings: The City's contribution will remain at 0.5% through the term of 
the extension (June 24, 2023), The City's contribution with return to 1.0% on June 25, 2023. 
Any term and condition of the May 18, 2019 – May 15, 2021 MOU not identified above shall remain 
in full force and effect through the term of this Agreement including the possible extension through 
June 24, 2023. 
62 of 154

--- page 63 ---
2. The budget impact for FY2022 will be a decrease of $334,256. The budget impact for FY2023 will be 
a decrease of $343,423. Updated salary and benefit amounts for these positions will be 
incorporated into the 2021-2022 and 2022-2023 budgets. 
63 of 154

--- page 64 ---
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT 
Between the San Mateo City Employees’ Association and the 
City of San Mateo 
The Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the San Mateo City Employees’ Association 
(“Association”) and the City of San Mateo (“City”) is set to expire at the close of business at 
midnight, May 15, 2021. 
The City and the Association have tentatively agreed to extend the expiration of the MOU to 
June 25, 2022 and revise the language of Articles 12.1, 19.0, 24.11, 42.0 and 43.0 as follows: 
12.1 Compensation Increases During the Term of this Agreement 
12.1.1   Base Salary Adjustments 
The Unit will be given a base salary adjustment as outlined below.  The Unit will receive 
the following across the board increases during the term of this agreement: 
June 16, 2019 
 
3.0% 
January 10, 2021 
2.0% 
January 9, 2022  
1.0% 
19.0 
Vacation 
19.1 
City Policy 
Vacations are considered essential to the employee’s welfare and they are granted by the 
City to allow employees relaxation and rest from their duties. Therefore, it shall be the 
policy of the City not to allow the excess accumulation of vacation leave. 
Time off shall be taken at the discretion of the department head, with due regard for the 
desires of the employee and the workload of the department. 
19.2 
Vacation Allowance 
Each employee shall be granted five (5) working days credit for vacation with pay on the 
day following completion of six (6) months of continuous service. Thereafter, for each 
additional biweekly pay period of service, the employee Employees shall accrue vacation 
with pay at the beginning of the following biweekly pay period as follows: 
YRS OF SERVICE 
DAYS 
PER YEAR
BIWEEKLY ACCRUAL 
½  0  through 3rd year
11 days
3.39 biweekly
4th year through 9th year
16 days
4.93 biweekly
10th year
17 days
5.23 biweekly
11th year
18 days
5.54 biweekly
12th year
20 days
6.16 biweekly
DocuSign Envelope ID: 68E2B676-AD9E-4415-9ECA-301A63F66BA5
Exhibit A
64 of 154

--- page 65 ---
13th  through 23rd year
22.5 days
6.93 biweekly
24 years and beyond
25 days
7.69 biweekly
 
The above allowances shall be pro-rated for employees beginning employment or leaving 
employment with the City during a biweekly pay period. 
 
 
24.11 Retirement Health Savings Account 
All employees in the Unit will continue to be enrolled in the RHS Account (RHSA) in 
accordance with the Plan design. The administration costs of maintaining this RHSA will 
be borne by the City.  
 
For calendar year 2019, separation pay contributions to each employee’s RHSA shall be 
as specified in the side letter of agreement attached to this document and identified as 
Exhibit “D”.  
 
The Unit may elect to change the above conversion of separation pay arrangement for 
each successive calendar year of this Agreement.  The Unit must notify the City’s Human 
Resources Department in writing no later than November 30th of the change(s) to be 
made for the following calendar year.  In the event notification is not received by the 
deadline, the separation pay arrangement in effect at the time will continue for the 
following calendar year. 
 
During the term of this MOU, employees in this bargaining unit may elect to contribute a 
set amount of salary to the RHSA. The City shall be notified of any such election sixty 
(60) days prior to the effective date.  
 
Beginning June 16, 2019, the City will contribute one percent (1.0%) of base salary per 
month for each employee into the RHSA plan. Effective July 11, 2021, the City’s 
contribution shall be 0.5%. The City’s contribution shall return to 1.0% on June 26, 2022 
unless extended by the Unit in accordance with Article 43.0 MOU Extension Option. 
 
Beginning June 16, 2019, the City shall contribute two percent (2.0%) of base salary per 
pay period to the Retirement Health Savings accounts of those employees aged 45 or over 
with 15 or more years of City service. Employees who become eligible for this contribution 
during the term of the agreement shall begin receiving contributions in the first full pay 
period following establishing eligibility. The continuation of this provision beyond the 
term of the contract would need to be made by mutual agreement between the parties. 
 
 
42.0 
Termination of Agreement 
 
This Agreement shall terminate as of 11:59 p.m., May 15, 2021June 25, 2022. 
 
The existing and unmodified rules, regulations, resolutions or ordinances relating to wages, 
hours, and conditions of employment not covered in this Agreement for employees in this 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 68E2B676-AD9E-4415-9ECA-301A63F66BA5
65 of 154

--- page 66 ---
Unit shall remain unchanged for said period unless such changes are the result of meeting 
and conferring as required by law. 
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the City Council may increase the benefits 
for the General Unit or may increase the wages of specific classifications in the General 
Unit. 
 
43.0 
MOU Extension Option 
 
The Unit has the sole discretion to extend the terms and conditions of this MOU with the 
following provisions: 
 
12.1.1. Base Salary Adjustments 
The Unit will receive the following across the board increase: 
 
 
 
January 13, 2023 
 
 
 
1% 
 
24.11 Retirement Health Savings Account 
The City’s RHS contribution shall remain at 0.5% through the term of the 
extension (June 24, 2023). The City’s RHS contribution shall return to 
1.0% on June 25, 2023. 
 
42.0 
Termination of Agreement 
 
The Agreement shall terminate as of 11:59 p.m., June 24, 2023. 
 
The Unit must notify the City in writing on or before March 15, 2022 that they will be 
exercising their right to extend the MOU under this Article.  
 
Any term and condition of the May 18, 2019 – May 15, 2021 MOU not identified above shall 
remain in full force and effect through the term of this Agreement including the possible 
extension through June 24, 2023. 
 
 
Dated:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FOR THE SMCEA 
 
 
 
 
FOR THE CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
John Noble 
 
 
 
 
 
Stacey Cue  
 
 
      
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 68E2B676-AD9E-4415-9ECA-301A63F66BA5
1/11/2021
66 of 154

--- page 67 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4227
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
February 01, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Response to Grand Jury Report Regarding: “Second Units: Adding New Housing in The Neighborhoods.” 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the City’s response letter to the San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury Report titled “Second Units: Adding New 
Housing in The Neighborhoods,” and authorize the Mayor to sign and send the letter on behalf of City Council
BACKGROUND:
On October 28, 2020, the 2019-20 San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury filed a report titled “Second Units: Adding New 
Housing In The Neighborhoods” (the “Report”). The Report outlined the housing shortage problem throughout the state 
and specifically within the County of San Mateo in the background, provided an overview of the six new second unit State 
laws that went into effect January 1, 2020, and discussed some of the tools, programs, and initiatives intended to 
streamline the permitting process to make second unit development a viable option for property owners. In summary, the 
Report identified the unmet need for providing more housing in the County and opportunity for creating more second 
units on single-family lots.
The Report includes eight findings regarding second unit construction throughout San Mateo County, as well as four 
recommendations intended to encourage second unit construction. The City is required to provide a formal response that 
has been approved by our governing body during a public meeting. The response must state whether the City agrees or 
disagrees with each of the findings, and state the reason if it disagrees in whole or in part. The response must also provide 
information on the City’s status in relation to each of the recommendations. The City was required to provide the formal 
response to the Report within 90 days of its filing, or by January 26, 2021. However, staff requested and was granted an 
extension by the Chief Deputy County Counsel to submit a formal response no later than February 2, 2021.  
Provided in the subsequent section of this report is staff’s proposed response to the Report’s findings and 
recommendations. Please note, “second unit” is an interchangeable term synonymous with accessory dwelling units 
(ADUs) and junior accessory dwelling units (JADUs), and will be utilized in this administrative report for consistency with 
the Report. The Report has been included as Attachment 1.
The City’s proposed responses to the Grand Jury Report’s findings and recommendations are provided in the body of this 
administrative report. The City’s draft formal response letter is included as Attachment 2.
Response to Grand Jury Findings:
Finding 1: The number of jobs in San Mateo County has grown beyond the number of new housing units available. More 
housing is needed and second units are one solution.
67 of 154

--- page 68 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Response: The City agrees with this finding.
Finding 2: From 2016 to 2020, the number of second units constructed annually within the County dramatically increased 
by 450% (823) after related State laws were enacted in 2017. Effective January 1, 2020, several additional new State laws 
were enacted in order to make the construction of new second units easier for homeowners. 
Response: The City agrees with this finding.
Finding 3: There are about 155,000 single-family homes in San Mateo County with only 4,000 second units on those 
properties, so there is a potential for thousands of new second units.
Response: The City agrees with this finding. The City presumes the 4,000 second units referenced in the finding 
speaks to legally permitted second units. An unknown number of unpermitted second units also exists that have the 
potential to be legalized given the provisions of the new State legislation. 
Finding 4: The County has an unknown but large number of non-permitted second units. The new 2020 State laws are 
intended to make it easier for those units to be made safer, and potentially to be brought up to permitting standards. 
 
Response: The City agrees with this finding.
Finding 5: Barriers to building new second units and for upgrading non-permitted second units include:  a lack of knowledge 
by homeowners as to potential lenders in financing the construction of a second unit and a lack of lenders in the region that 
have indicated their willingness to engage in such financing, homeowners’ difficulty in finding contractors willing to work on 
“small” projects such as second units, and the need to recruit and train more inspectors.  
Response: The City agrees in part with this finding. A lack of homeowner awareness of financing and construction 
options are obstacles to second unit construction, but the City is unaware of any shortage of qualified building 
inspectors. The City currently has next day availability for building inspections. However, the timeline for inspecting 
completed second units is partially dependent on the overall volume of completed construction subject to 
inspection, such as it is with any other type of construction project. Additionally, second unit construction can be 
cost prohibitive and an additional barrier for homeowners considering certain types of second units. The City is not 
aware of any instance of the timeline for a building inspection constituting a hardship.
Finding 6: DOH and the City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County have co-sponsored and coordinated 
the “21 Elements Project”, which aids all jurisdictions in the County to work together on addressing their housing needs, 
including the development of second units.  
Response: The City agrees with this finding.
Finding 7: The San Mateo County Department of Housing is updating its website and marketing plan that focuses on second 
units.   
Response: The City agrees in part with this finding. While it is true that the County is updating its website and 
marketing plans focused on second units, it is Home for All that is responsible for both of these tasks. Home for All 
is a County initiative co-chaired by Supervisors Don Horsley and Carole Groom and administratively supported by 
staff from multiple County departments.
Finding 8: The City of San Jose has developed a second unit initiative that is worth examining closely and possibly emulating. 
(See Appendix D).
Response: The City agrees with this finding. 
68 of 154

--- page 69 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Response to Grand Jury Recommendations:
Recommendation 1: The County and its cities should continue to develop or enhance existing outreach to homeowners 
about the new laws that simplify and streamline the construction and permitting of Second Units including but not limited 
to the following:  

Posting relevant information on their websites regarding the process for the construction and permitting of second 
units including materials such as checklists and flowcharts;

Increasing social media and other outreach regarding the above-referenced resources;

Offering workshops (live or online) regarding the process for the construction and permitting of second units at least 
quarterly.
Response: This recommendation has been implemented. The City currently has resources online for those seeking to build 
ADUs and JADUs, which can be found at https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3907/Accessory-Dwelling-Unit-ADU. These 
resources include permit fee information and links to a comprehensive ADU/JADU Development Standards Guide and a 
ADU/JADU Plan Submittal Guide that outlines all the necessary information and documents required to submit a complete 
ADU/JADU application. Additionally, the landing page features a direct link to SymbiumBuild, a web platform that provides 
interactive mapping to help visualize land use and zoning, simplifies complicated local and state regulations, and can help 
citizens navigate the permitting process.
In addition to these resources, staff is currently reviewing the City of San Jose’s preapproved ADU design program for the 
purpose of developing and implementing a similar program to allow ADU designers and builders a way to offer their 
customers a lower-cost and expedited way through the permit process. This pilot effort would involve substantial outreach 
to the community and is likely to raise awareness citywide of that legislation that streamlines ADU and JADU construction. 
Finally, staff plans to promote ADU resources as available through the City’s social media channels. 
Recommendation 2: By December 31, 2020, the County and its cities should commit to meeting for the purpose of finding 
collaborative solutions for:

Developing and publicizing additional financial partners to help homeowners finance the construction of new second 
units as well as the upgrading of non-permitted existing second units;

Developing solutions to address the shortage of licensed contractors willing to work on small projects including, but 
not limited to, the feasibility of licensed contractors engaging and supervising non-licensed “handymen;”

Identifying and collaborating with training institutions to recruit and train more general contractors and inspectors.
Such meetings may occur in connection with 21 Elements Project meetings regarding second units, or through a separate 
platform.
Response: This recommendation is in the process of being implemented. On December 3, 2020, a 21 Elements meeting was 
held to explore aspects of second unit construction, including financing resources and availability of construction workforce. 
City staff will continue to collaborate with 21 Elements on these topics in 2021. 
As previously noted, the City is not aware of a shortage of qualified building inspectors. The City currently has next day 
availability (inspection request cut-off at 3 p.m.). However, the timeframe for inspecting completed second units is partially 
dependent on the overall volume of completed construction subject to inspection, but second units have been affected in 
the same way as any other construction project. The City is not aware of any instance of the timeline for a building inspection 
constituting a unique hardship.
Recommendation 3: The County and each city should develop a marketing plan to focus on the needs and concerns of 
homeowners who have non-permitted units. This should be done by the end of the calendar year 2020.
69 of 154

--- page 70 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Response: This recommendation has been partially implemented. The City abides by the provisions of the new State 
legislation that allows for a five-year delay in enforcement of violations related to unpermitted second units upon formal 
request by the property owner and provided there are no existing health and safety violations. The City’s Code Enforcement, 
Planning, Fire, and Building Department staff have been working closely with owners of unpermitted second units to legalize 
those units whenever possible. Information on the code enforcement deferral is provided in the ADU/JADU Standards link 
available on the City’s dedicated  ADU & JADU webpage. The City is set to embark on community outreach efforts associated 
with its ADU/JADU Ordinance in the first half of 2021. Part of that effort will include educating the public on pathways to 
legalize unpermitted second units and the five-year delay in enforcement deferral via online resources, eNewsletter, social 
media, and virtual community meetings.
Recommendation 4: The County and its cities should determine whether it is feasible to retain an outside resource that can 
be shared among cities and the County to leverage second unit expertise. This determination should be made by December 
31, 2021.
Response: This recommendation has not yet been implemented. The City will continue to explore and pursue solutions by 
supporting and participating with the County through the 21 Elements collaborative, as well as monitor additional best 
practices through its engagement with the County of San Mateo through its Home for All program and the Casita Coalition, 
a statewide association of second unit professionals and advocates. The City also is learning from the experience of the City 
of San Jose’s “ADU Ally” and how this kind of assistance can support homeowner success. The City is currently reviewing a 
wide range of options for the purpose of facilitating second unit development, including discussions with non-profit second 
unit experts such as HEART of San Mateo County to learn about speeding up the design and entitlement process by utilizing 
pre-approved ADU prototype designs. Once these options have been investigated thoroughly, staff will present them to our 
recommending and decision-making bodies accordingly prior to the December 31, 2021, date as specified.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are no fiscal impacts associated with the information discussed in report.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The action being considered by the Planning Commission is not subject to the provisions of the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) per CEQA Guidelines Section 15061 (b)(3) “common sense” exemption, as it can be seen with certainty 
that the City’s response to the San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury’s report will not impact the physical environment.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury Report (October 28, 2020)
Att 2 – Formal Response Letter to the San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury Report
STAFF CONTACT
Phillip Brennan, AICP, Associate Planner
pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7218
70 of 154

--- page 71 ---
Superior Court of California, County of San Mateo
Hall of Justice and Records

Redwood City, CA 94063-1655 eB0CT G0 125le

NEAL TANIGUCHI (650) 261-5066
COURT EXECUTIVE OFFICER FAX (650) 261-5147
CLERK & JURY COMMISSIONER www.sanmateocourt.org

October 28, 2020

City Council

City of San Mateo

330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

Re: Grand Jury Report: “Second Units: Adding New Housing In The Neighborhoods”
Dear Councilmembers:

The 2019-2020 Grand Jury filed a report on October 28, 2020 which contains findings and
recommendations pertaining to your agency. Your agency must submit comments, within 90 days, to the
Hon. Danny Y. Chou. Your agency’s response is due no later than January 26, 2021. Please note that
the response should indicate that it was approved by your governing body at a public meeting.

For all findings, your responding agency shall indicate one of the following:
1. The respondent agrees with the finding.

2. The respondent disagrees wholly or partially with the finding, in which case the response
shall specify the portion of the finding that is disputed and shall include an explanation of the
reasons therefore.

Additionally, as to each Grand Jury recommendation, your responding agency shall report one of the
following actions:

1. The recommendation has been implemented, with a summary regarding the implemented
action.

2. The recommendation has not yet been implemented, but will be implemented in the future,
with a time frame for implementation.

3. The recommendation requires further analysis, with an explanation and the scope and
parameters of an analysis or study, and a time frame for the matter to be prepared for
discussion by the officer or director of the agency or department being investigated or
reviewed, including the governing body of the public agency when applicable. This time
frame shall not exceed six months from the date of publication of the Grand Jury report.

4. The recommendation will not be implemented because it is not warranted or reasonable,
with an explanation therefore.

&nbsp;
71 of&nbsp;154


--- page 72 ---
Please submit your responses in all of the following ways:

1. Responses to be placed on file with the Clerk of the Court by the Court Executive
Office.

e Prepare original on your agency’s letterhead, indicate the date of the public meeting
that your governing body approved the response address and mail to Judge Chou.

Hon. Danny Y. Chou
Judge of the Superior Court
c/o Jenarda Dubois
Hall of Justice
400 County Center; 8" Floor
Redwood City, CA 94063-1655.

2. Responses to be placed at the Grand Jury website.

e Copy response and send by e-mail to: grandjury@sanmateocourt.org. (Insert
agency name if it is not indicated at the top of your response.)

3. Responses to be placed with the clerk of your agency.

e File a copy of the response directly with the clerk of your agency. Do not send this
copy to the Court.

For up to 45 days after the end of the term, the foreperson and the foreperson’s designees are available to
clarify the recommendations of the report. To reach the foreperson, please call the Grand Jury Clerk at
(650) 261-5066.

If you have any questions regarding these procedures, please do not hesitate to contact Paul Okada, Chief
Deputy County Counsel, at (650) 363-4761.

Very truly yours,
Neal Taniguchi

Court Executive Officer

Enclosure

ce: Hon. Danny Y. Chou
Paul Okada

&nbsp;
72 of&nbsp;154


--- page 73 ---
Second Units: Adding New Housing In The Neighborhoods

ISSUE

How are the County of San Mateo and its cities supporting homeowners who are considering
building a new Second Unit on their property or upgrading a non-permitted one, in response to
new State laws, which became effective January 1, 2020?

SUMMARY

Housing availability is a top priority in San Mateo County because while 93,000 new jobs were
added between 2010-2018, only 8,500 new housing units were built. Housing considered
“affordable” is especially at a crisis point. “Limited land and the large gap between new jobs and
available housing lead to high rents and high home prices. As of 2019, median rent in the County
for a one-bedroom apartment is $2,621 and for a two-bedroom apartment it is $3,349, while only
24% of County households can afford to purchase an entry-level home.”!

To put this slow-moving catastrophe into further perspective, more than two-thirds (68%) of the
County’s land is protected from development because it is either agricultural or open space. At
the same time, of the County’s already developed land, two-thirds is occupied by single-family
homes. Simply stated, building more single-family homes cannot begin to solve the County’s
housing shortfall. “Second Units” — broadly defined as self-contained living spaces that are on
the same property as an existing residence — present a creative and innovative option to
addressing the region’s affordable housing crisis.

The number of new Second Units dramatically increased after several State laws went into effect
in 2017. This made the construction of Second Units easier for homeowners. The number of new
Second Units is expected to further increase as a result of new state laws which went into effect
in January 2020. It has become clear to date that Second Units are popular for a variety of
reasons. They are attractive as housing for relatives, rental income and personal investment as
well as providing the option to downsize. Such units can also supply housing for community
members like educators or public safety employees who otherwise would not be able to live in
the community in which they work. Factoring in that there are approximately 155,000 single-

‘Home for All Brochure, Published April 2019. Accessed May 15, 2020. https://homeforallsme.org/wp-
content/uploads/2019/08/HFA_ brochure v16_WEB.pdf
2 Home for All Community Convening on Second Units: Maintaining the Momentum, February 27, 2020

2019-2020 San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury 1

&nbsp;
73 of&nbsp; 154


--- page 74 ---
~

family homes in San Mateo County? and only 4,000 Second Units on those properties‘, the
potential exists for thousands of new Second Units that would significantly impact the county’s
housing deficit over the years to come.

However, there are significant hurdles facing the development of Second Units. According to
housing advocates interviewed by the Grand Jury, the biggest impediments to the construction of
new Second Units, as well as upgrading non-permitted Second Units, are: obtaining financing,
the lack of contractors willing to work on Second Units, and the need for local governments to
recruit and train more inspectors.°

“The San Mateo County Board of Supervisors and County Manager’s Office, along with support
from the County’s Department of Housing (“DOH”) have been leading the regional effort to
allow the development and construction of more Second Units.”6 DOH has been working
collaboratively with the 20 cities to help address countywide affordable housing issues. DOH has
contracted with a consulting firm, Baird & Driskell, on the 27 Elements Project, to assist the
County and cities in this effort. The consulting firm hosts monthly meetings related to Second
Units with city and DOH representatives. As part of this effort, DOH is developing a new
website and marketing plans that will focus on promoting Second Units.

As a result of this investigation, the Grand Jury recommends the following:

1. The County and its cities should continue their outreach to homeowners informing them about
the new laws that simplify and streamline the construction and permitting of Second Units.

2. The County and its cities should determine whether there is a way for the public entities to
compile a list of financial partners who can assist homeowners with funding new Second Units
and upgrading non-permitted Second Units.

3. The County and its cities should determine whether there is a way for the public entities to
develop a comprehensive list of contractor resources and partner with training institutions to
recruit and train more general contractors and inspectors.

4. The County and its cities should encourage homeowners who may have non-permitted Second
Units to go through the permitting process.

The 2019-2020 Grand Jury commends the current housing efforts of the County and its cities and
urges them to embrace the new opportunities. The impact of the laws passed by the California
Legislature in 2017 increased the number of Second Units constructed annually by 450%. Ifthe

3 According to San Mateo County housing data, there are 276,444 housing units in San Mateo County (Fig. 1).
Figure 33 says that 56% (155,000) of housing units are single-family, detached homes. When you multiply the two
figures, you get 154,808 (which rounds to 155k).
https://www.towncharts.com/California/Housing/San-Mateo-County-CA-Housing-data.html

4 Grand Juror interviews.

5 Grand Jury Interviews

§ Home for All collaborative, https:’/homeforallsme.org/

2019-2020 San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury 2

&nbsp;
74 of&nbsp; 154


--- page 75 ---
2020 laws have a similar effect, our County and cities will be well-positioned for adding more
affordable housing.

GLOSSARY

Home for All: A collaborative countywide initiative which was undertaken to inspire
community action and promote closure of the county’s 11:1 jobs/housing gap.? The members of
this initiative include the County and 16 of its cities as well as representatives from all sectors of
the community who are focused on creating a future where everyone in the County has a home
they can afford. It has been led by Supervisors Don Horsley and Warren Slocum. According to
its website, this initiative builds on the work and momentum of the Closing the Jobs/Housing
Gap Task Force.8

Second Unit: An interchangeable term with a granny flat, in-law suite, Accessory Dwelling
Unit (ADU), converted garage, backyard cottage or basement apartment. They are always self-
contained homes, smaller than the main house and legally part of the same property. Second
Units can take many forms and vary in size, but always contain everything someone needs to
live, including a kitchen, bathroom and a place to sleep.?

Junior Second Unit/Junior ADU: A very small living unit up to 500 square feet, which
re-purposes existing space within a residence such as a bedroom, garage or carport within an
existing single-family home. These units may contain a basic kitchen utilizing small plug-in
appliances and may share central systems as well as a bathroom with the primary dwelling.

The “21 Elements Project”: A multi-year funded project co-sponsored by DOH and the
City/County Association of Governments (C/CAG) through which all jurisdictions in San Mateo
County cooperate to update their respective Housing Elements and share information and work
on a wide variety of housing policies and programs.!1 “21 Elements” is a project of Baird &
Driskell Community Planning Consultants, a master housing consultant, which supports all San
Mateo County and city jurisdictions, hosting monthly phone conferences related to affordable
housing issues (including Second Units), through a contract with DOH.!2

BACKGROUND

The Bay Area housing crisis can be traced back to the 1970s when local cities experienced an
economic boom, and property taxes were rising with them. Then Proposition 13 put a cap on

7 Supra, note 1
8 https://homeforallsmc.org/about=us/
9 Second Unit Inspiration brochure, page 3. The booklet was produced as a joint project of Home for All and 21
Elements, 2018. www.SecondUnitCenterSMC.org
10 Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units (JADUs), California Department of
Housing and Community Development, accessed May 20, 2020. https://wavw.hed.ca.gov/poliev-

Hips!

ocounty. legistar.com/LegislationDetail.aspx?[D=4068 159& GUID=1 D7B2118-0312-4351-88F6-

2019-2020 San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury 3

&nbsp;
75 of&nbsp;154


--- page 76 ---
how much could be raised from property taxes each year. Cash-hungry cities zoned more land
for commercial use so they could collect more sales tax. That meant more retail property was
built than private housing. In addition, steep impact fees pushed developers to prioritize
expensive homes rather than multi-unit housing. Then, Silicon Valley businesses grew and
brought huge numbers of tech jobs to the Bay Area. “The housing crisis has been a slow-moving
storm that has been churning for decades.”!3

The number of jobs in San Mateo County has grown beyond the number of new housing units
available.!* Between 2010-2018, for example, 93,000 jobs were added but only 8,500 new
housing units were built. To put this serious situation in perspective, more than two-thirds (68%)
of the County’s land is either agricultural or open space, and two-thirds of the County’s
developed land is occupied by single-family homes.!5 Simply stated, building more single-family
homes on the remaining available land cannot begin to solve the County’s housing shortfall.

“Limited land and the large gap between new jobs and available housing lead to high rents and
high home prices. In the County, median rent for a one-bedroom apartment is $2,621 and for a
two-bedroom apartment it is $3,349.”!6 Approximately two thirds of San Mateo County
households cannot afford to purchase an entry-level home. Among those affected are important
members of the County’s workforce including teachers, firefighters and other public employees
who are unable to live in the areas they serve.!7 Lack of affordable housing is an issue for San
Mateo County and throughout the State of California. !8

13 Melissa Colorado, “Making It in the Bay: How the Bay Area’s Housing Crisis Spiraled Out of Control”
February 10, 2020. https: ing-it-in-the-bav/making-it-in-the-bav-how-th«
bay-areas-housing-crisis-sp led-out fcontrol/22304 10/

'4 According to a San Mateo County spokesperson at a Home for All Community Convening on Second Units:
Maintaining the Momentum, Belmont, February 27, 2020

!S Home for All Community Convening on Second Units: Maintaining the Momentum, Belmont, February 27,
2020.

16 Home for All brochure, Published April 2019. https://homeforalisme.org/wp-

content/uploads/2019/08/HFA brochure v16 WEB.pdf

'T Second Unit Inspiration Brochure, produced by Baird + Driskell Community Planning, page 4, 2018.

www. SecondUnitCenterSMC.org.

18 California Housing Partnership analysis of 2018 1-year American Community Survey (ACS) PUMS data with
HUD income levels hitps://1p08d91kd0c03rlxhmhtydpr-wpengine.netdna-ss].com/wp-
content/upioads/2020/03/CHPC HousingNeedsReportCA 2020 Final-.pdf

ea.com/news/local/

2019-2020 San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury 4

&nbsp;
76 of&nbsp; 154


--- page 77 ---
CALIFORNIA NEEDS 1.3 MILLION MORE
AFFORDABLE RENTAL HOMES

While the shortfall has declined by 11% since 2014, the
share of housing need not being met has remained relatively
constant because the number of low-income households has
also declined.’

“ Shorttail
2.50 * Very Low-income (VLI)
® Extremely Low-Income (EL!)

~
{

x
f
>
p

| El BS

2016 2017 2018

ornia Housing Partnership analysis of 2018 1-year American
urvey (ACS) PUMS with HUD income levels, Methodology

Throughout the County, the housing shortage is being addressed in a variety of ways including:
development of multi-unit complexes along transit corridors; shared housing; and the subject of
this report, building Second Units on single family properties. According to Grand J ury
interviews with local government officials and housing advocates, building and upgrading
Second Units is a relatively fast and efficient option and one component of a multi-faceted
strategy to address the County’s affordable housing shortage.!9

California laws passed in 2017 dramatically increased the number of new Second Units in the
County to an average of 269 Second Units per year from an average of just 60 Second Units per
year from 2010-2016. (See Appendix A).

19 Grand Jury interviews.

2019-2020 San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury 5

&nbsp;
77 of&nbsp;154


--- page 78 ---
The laws which went into effect on January 1, 2020, include:2°

o AB 68/AB 881 - Requires local agencies to approve or deny an ADU project more
quickly and prohibits local agencies from adopting ADU ordinances that impose
minimum lot size requirements, set certain maximum dimensions, or require replacement
off-street parking in certain situations. Also allows for an ADU as well as a "junior"
ADUs where certain access, setback and other criteria are met.

o SB 13 - Provides, until January 1, 2025, that cities may not condition approval of ADU
building permit applications on the applicant being the "owner-applicant" of either the
primary dwelling or the ADU, and prohibits impact fees on ADUs under 750 square feet.

o AB 587 - Provides that local agencies may now allow ADUs to be sold or conveyed
separately from a primary residence if certain conditions are met. This law is expected to
increase the ability of affordable housing organizations to sell deed-restricted ADUs to
eligible low-income homeowners.

o AB 670 - Prevents homeowners’ associations from barring ADUs. AB 670 makes
unlawful any HOA condition that "prohibits or unreasonably restricts" the construction of
ADUs on single-family residential lots.

o AB 671 - Requires local governments to include in their General Plan housing elements
plans to incentivize and promote the creation of affordable ADUs. The law also requires
HCD to develop, by December 31, 2020, a list of state grants and financial incentives for
ADU development.

The new 2020 laws solve a number of key zoning and construction restraints which previously
held back less expensive housing options. Second Units can now be built or remodeled into 800
square-feet rental units with construction approved by the respective cities within 60 days and do
not require owner occupation, additional parking or impact fees (if 750 square feet or less).

In the case of amnesty, non-permitted Second Units are acceptable if they meet health and safety
standards, e.g., operating fire detectors and electric wiring. Of note is that units cannot be used
for short-term vacation rentals as the various laws were intended for rental to singles or families
who cannot otherwise afford a single-family dwelling or an apartment rental near their
workplace.?!

20 hetps://www.hklaw.com/en/insights/publications/2019/10/californias-2020-housing-laws-what-vou-need-to-know,
Additionally, a more complete summary of the 2020 statutes impacting the construction or permitting of Second
Units can be found in Appendix B.

2lNew state laws for ADU/Second Unit construction, effective January 1, 2020: AB 670 (Friedman), AB 671
(Friedman), AB 68 (Ting), AB 587 (Friedman), AB 881 (Bloom), SB 13 (Wieckowski) are designed to help narrow
the shortfall in affordable housing in California. Another bill is being worked on to tie all bills together.

(Appendix B: Summary of bills)

2019-2020 San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury 6

&nbsp;
78 of&nbsp;154


--- page 79 ---
DISCUSSION

In December 2019, the San Mateo County Grand Jury surveyed the city managers of all 20 cities
in the County regarding passage of California laws concerning Second Units. The survey
inquired about plans for the implementation of these new laws in each jurisdiction.22 With the
exception of East Palo Alto and Millbrae, all of the jurisdictions responded to the survey, and all
were aware of the new laws. Many were preparing to find ways to initiate the development of
more Second Units in their jurisdictions. Their main concerns included:

o short amount of time between passage of the laws and the need to implement them;
perceived conflicts and inconsistencies within the new State laws;
loss of local control might lead to community backlash;
inadequate staffing to handle the potential increase in Second Unit interest;
homeowner’s ability to secure funding for the construction costs; and
availability of sufficient extra neighborhood parking.

OoO000 0

Opportunity for New Second Units

Housing advocates consider Second Units to be “low-hanging fruit” for the development of new
housing inventory. There are about 155,000 single-family homes in San Mateo County with only
4,000 Second Units on those properties, so there is a potential for thousands of new Second
Units. Since 2010, there has been a steady growth in Second Unit approvals throughout the
county, according to San Mateo County’s Annual Jurisdiction Survey.3

To take full advantage of new opportunities for ADUs created by the 2020 State bills, cities
throughout the county are updating their zoning ordinances to be in compliance with the new
State laws. Additionally, many cities are focused on streamlining their individual Second Unit
permitting process as well as the process that will provide amnesty for pre-existing, non-
permitted Second Units.4

Several new online tools — including tools at https://secondunitcenter.org/ (a website maintained
by the County) — identify potential sites for Second Units, calculate estimated costs, and
streamline the process of building a Second Unit, thereby making Second Unit development an
easier option for homeowners to consider.?5 They include:

o  https://build.symbium.com/
Using this link, residents and planners in Redwood City, Pacifica, and Unincorporated
San Mateo County can quickly determine whether a Second Unit is allowed at a
particular address and if so, what specific development standards (State and local rules)
apply. More cities will be added to this list in the near future.26

22 Survey questions are listed in Appendix C.

23 “Accessory Dwelling Units Approved by Jurisdiction” (2010-2018, with 2019 data added), Annual Jurisdiction
Survey. See chart and graph in Appendix A.

24 Grand Jury interviews.

25 Online Tools from companies like Symbium allows anyone to understand whether a Second Unit is allowed on a
particular parcel. See hittys://build.symbium.com

26 Second Unit Resource Center handout. https://secondunitcentersme.ore/

2019-2020 San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury 7

&nbsp;
79 of&nbsp; 154


--- page 80 ---
o  http://calculator.secondunitcentersme.org/
San Mateo County’s Second Unit Calculator helps a homeowner get an estimate for what
a Second Unit project might cost, and calculates the amount it might yield as an
investment. It also allows a user to change assumptions such as location, unit size, type of
unit and much more.

o  https://secondunitcentersmc.org/
The County’s website focuses on Second Unit development and, according to Grand Jury
interviews, will be further updated in the future.

Amnesty for Non-Permitted Second Units

The actual number of non-permitted Second Units in the County is unknown.?7 However,
whatever this number might actually be, these units are important affordable housing as long as
they meet minimum health and safety codes.

The San Mateo County Planning and Building Department and nonprofits such as “Rebuilding
Together Peninsula”?8 are focused on encouraging owners of non-permitted Second Units in the
unincorporated area of the County and East Palo Alto respectively to develop plans that would
make more of them safer and healthier and thereby permitted.

In January 2020, the County initiated a pilot program for homeowners who wished to consider
upgrading their non-permitted Second Units.” If this pilot program is successful, it will be
expanded and marketed as a model that cities in the County could adopt. The program allows:

o existing Second Units to be brought up to code and become permitted;

o applicants to explore whether the amnesty program for non-permitted units might work
for them;

o ano-risk assurance which enables the homeowner to back out of the permitting process at
any time with no obligation on their end to bring their non-permitted unit up to health and
safety standards;

o avariety of enforcement suspensions included in the laws that took effect this past
January; and

o some previously non-permitted construction features (so some homeowners no longer
need amnesty.)

Rebuilding Together Peninsula is a non-profit organization that focuses on home repair. Eighty
five percent of its home repair projects are in San Mateo County, primarily garage-conversion
Second Units in East Palo Alto.3° 3! Much of that work is focused on upgrading non-permitted
Second Units. Grand Jurors toured the Redwood City offices and learned that the nonprofit

27 Grand Jury interviews.

28 RebuildingTogetherPeninsula is a non-profit that is focused on working with other local agencies to upgrade non-
permitted second units in East Palo Alto. It has a focus on repairs of garage-conversions, not new construction.
https://sites. google.com/rebuildingto getherpeninsula.org/epa-adu-initiative/home

29 See the SMC Second Unit Amnesty Website: https://olanning.smegov.org/second-unit-amnesty

30 Grand Jury interview.

31 Rebuilding Together the Peninsula EPA Garage Conversion/ADU Legalization Initiative,

dingtogetherpeninsula.org/epa-adu-initiative/home

https://sites. google.com

00g

2019-2020 San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury 8

&nbsp;
80 of&nbsp; 154


--- page 81 ---
works on one project at a time, relying on volunteers who are good at making repairs. Most of
these Second Units are for relatives and friends, not for revenue. Rebuilding Together’s five year
plan targets low income communities of color. Second Unit goals for Rebuilding Together in
East Palo Alto are:

o legalizing non-permitted units;32
repairing units to make them safer for occupants;
streamlining the repair process;
sharing learnings;
training and workforce development; and,
transitioning East Palo Alto Second Unit projects to “EPA CAN DO”33 leadership.

Oo000 0

Moving Forward

Step One: Home for All Initiative

The County’s Home for All Initiative builds on the work and momentum of the San Mateo
County Board of Supervisors’ Closing the Jobs/Housing Gap Task Force.34 “The Second Unit
Center” is a program of the Home for All Initiative which is aimed at providing information and
tools to make it easier for homeowners to build second units to help increase the housing supply
in San Mateo County. According to the Second Unit Center website, on August 6, 2019, the
Board of Supervisors approved the creation of a new One Stop Shop* pilot program to help
homeowners with Second Unit construction. Through this program, participating homeowners
can receive no-cost support from the nonprofit Hello Housing, a member of the Mid-Peninsula
Housing family of companies.

Hello Housing will provide up to 100 hours of free feasibility and project management support at
no cost in connection with the design, permitting, and project management involved with
building a Second Unit. The One Stop Shop pilot program is a partnership of DOH, Hello
Housing, and the cities of East Palo Alto, Pacifica, and Redwood City. Residents of these three
cities and the unincorporated County will be eligible to apply for inclusion in this pilot
program.” If the pilot program is successful, it is hoped that it can be scaled to serve all
jurisdictions.37

To prepare for the eventual scaling up of this pilot program, the County and its cities are
reaching out to residents to inform, educate, and support homeowners who are considering
building or improving a Second Unit.38 As part of this effort, DOH and the City/County
Association of Governments of San Mateo County (C/CAG) have co-sponsored and coordinated

32 Cost of a garage conversion or “permitted” to codes of the day is about $70,000 according to Rebuilding Together
the Peninsula. This can include adding insulation, upgrading electrical, sealing and leveling a concrete floor,
reviewing the safety of the roof, creating a new share wall and a proper wall to replace the garage door, and make
garage electric/energy efficient and heated.

33 https://epacando.org/

34 Closing the Jobs/Housing Gap Task Force, The Task Force began in September 24, 2015 to build a common
understanding of the challenge, learn what is already being done both inside and outside the county and finish by
exploring possible solutions. https://bos.smcgov.org/task-force

35 https://secondunitcentersme.org/onestopshop/ (accessed on 7/22/2020)

36 ibid.

37 Grand Jury interviews.

38 Grand Jury interviews.

2019-2020 San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury 9

&nbsp;
81 of&nbsp; 154


--- page 82 ---
the “21 Elements Project” which aids all jurisdictions in the County to work together on
addressing their housing needs, including the development of Second Units. As part of this
effort, monthly meetings and/or conference calls are convened by 21 Elements.39

Step Two: Raising Awareness and Enthusiasm

It is critical that interested residents become aware of Second Unit opportunities and resources
that are available to them for building Second Units on their property. To get the attention of
homeowners, there will need to be a variety of outreach strategies. The following are efforts by
the County of San Mateo and its cities, and for comparison, the City of San Jose.

County of San Mateo initiatives:

There has been a great deal of effort already put into the development of a Second Unit Initiative
in San Mateo County. During the past couple of years, as the need for a multi-pronged housing
initiative became apparent, the County took a number of critical steps.

The County developed two notable booklets -- Second Unit Inspiration and Second Unit
Workbook; initiated a collaborative partnership between the County and its cities through the
21 Elements Project; created two pilot programs (one focused on the process of building new
Second Units and the other on homeowners successfully obtaining amnesty for non-permitted
Second Units); and are developing an updated DOH Second Unit website and marketing plan.*°

City-level initiatives
In their responses to the Grand Jury survey, city managers identified the following
communication methods:
o informational handouts - hard copies and digital (i.e., Second Unit designs, checklists,
development of some standard designs, lists of pre-approved contractors);
© posting key Second Unit resource links;
publishing articles and/or promotions in local news media; and
community meetings and workshops;

Oo O°

Funding for the development of some of these programs and materials may be acquired with

SB 2 Planning Grants. SB 2 provides funding and technical assistance to all local governments in
California to help cities and counties prepare, adopt, and implement plans and process
improvements that streamline housing approvals and accelerate housing production.!

The City of San Jose (Santa Clara County)

The City of San Jose hired an Alternative Dwelling Unit (ADU) Ally acting much like an
expeditor for homeowners desiring Second Units. San Jose City’s ADU Ally has become a
valuable resource in assisting San Jose homeowners through the process of developing Second
Units. The ADU Ally:

o isa dedicated staff person who coordinates and connects homeowners to city services and
demystifies the process for homeowners who are exploring the process of building a

39 21Elements, http://21elements.com/second-units, Baird & Driskell Community Planning Consultants.
tersme.org accessed May 19, 2020.
41 https://hed.ca.gov/grants-funding/active-funding/planning-grants.shtml

40 https://secondun

2019-2020 San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury 10

&nbsp;
82 of&nbsp; 154


--- page 83 ---
Second Unit;

© creates online tools, handouts and information, including a Second Unit Universal
Checklist which offers step-by-step guidance; and,

o helped produce a YouTube video tutorial on how to build a Second Unit in San Jose.

An official from San Jose informed the Grand Jury that the resources created by this department
would be available for use during the San Mateo County Second Unit effort.

Home for All San Mateo held a summit in February 2020, at which the ADU Ally delivered a
featured presentation. While this dedicated specialist seems to be making an impact, only time
and hard data will tell.42

Step Three: Amnesty for Non-Permitted Second Units

There are thought to be a large but unidentified number of non-permitted Second Units in San
Mateo County. In order to successfully increase the number of housing units countywide, it is
critical that these Second Units be upgraded to comply with applicable health and safety codes
and maintained as viable housing units. The new State laws make it easier for those units to be
made safer by providing amnesty to the homeowners who built these non-permitted units and
encouraging them to bring their units up to permitting standards.

If the County pilot program for homeowners who wish to obtain permits for their non-permitted
Second Units* is successful, it will have the potential to be expanded and marketed as a model
program that cities throughout the County could modify and/or adopt for their own use. This
action by the cities would help preserve these critical housing units. Interestingly, in the Grand
Jury’s December 2019 survey, only Belmont referred to amnesty. New construction appears to
be a higher priority for most cities.

The City of East Palo Alto and nonprofits such as Rebuilding Together Peninsula‘ are also
focused on developing other plans that would make non-permitted Second Units safer and
ultimately permitted.

Barriers to Building or Upgrading Second Units:

While state law has been amended to make Second Units easier to develop, based on Grand Jury
interviews with housing advocates, it is clear that there are still significant barriers that hinder
and sometimes block homeowners from adding Second Units. For example, those barriers
include:

42 Grand Jury interview. See more in Appendix D

43 Grand Jury Interview.

44 SMC Second Unit Amnesty Website: hitps://planning.smcgov.org/second-unit-amnesty

45 RebuildingTogetherPeninsula is a non-profit that is focused on working with other local agencies to upgrade non-
permitted second units in East Palo Alto. It has a focus on repairs of garage-conversions, not new construction.

https://sites. google.com/rebuildingto getherpeninsula.org/ena-adu-initiative/home

2019-2020 San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury 11

&nbsp;
83 of&nbsp; 154


--- page 84 ---
o The process of financing new Second Units or upgrading non-permitted Second Units. At
the time of this writing, only one local lender, San Mateo Credit Union, has committed
to providing lending for these projects. At the same time, homeowners who might
consider building a new or upgrading non-permitted Second Units, are often unaware of
financing options;*7

o The recent booming Bay Area building environment has made it very difficult to find and
engage contractors willing to work on relatively small projects such as Second Units,
especially due to the demand for rebuilding homes lost to recent wildfires. During its
investigation, several interviewees suggested that local governments may wish to provide
options in which contractors could utilize “handy men” (who are not licensed as
contractors) to do work that the contractors would officially supervise;*8

o Some homeowners find the building and permitting process complex and intimidating
according to the interviews of housing advocates;*?

o Local public entities may lack a sufficient number of inspectors to handle building
inspections and amnesty approvals;*°

o A misunderstanding by homeowners that the construction of a Second Unit could result
in the reassessment of their entire property as opposed to an increase, based on the value
of the Second Unit alone. (Adding an ADU will not impact the original home assessment,
but homeowners will get a supplemental bill.)>!

o Some jurisdictions on the County’s coast are unclear as to whether the new State laws
apply to coastal areas;>2 and

o The uncertainty of the Covid-19 environment.

As the County and its cities continue to focus on the shortage of available and affordable
housing, Second Units are an important option to consider. They are a popular alternative to
single-family homes and can be developed more quickly. This is even more important given the
COVID-19 pandemic because the number of households without an affordable place to live will
grow. For example, Matt Schwartz, President and CEO of CA Housing Partnership, says income
inequality was a problem before COVID-19. Before the pandemic, about 1.5 million households
were living without an affordable place in California and now that number will grow. He says

46 San Mateo Credit Union, https://www.smeu.ore/Loans/Home-Loans/ADU-Loan

47 Grand Jury interviews.

48 Ibid.

49 Tid.

50 Thid.

5! Tbid.

52 “City Flooded with Requests for ADU Permits.” Half Moon Bay Review, March 4, 2020,
https:/Awww.hmbreview.com/news/city-flooded-with-requests-for-adu-permits/article_0d5a9920-5e49-1 lea-b933-
c7dealfa420c.html (viewed again on 4/27/2020)

2019-2020 San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury 12

&nbsp;
84 of&nbsp; 154


--- page 85 ---
the state will still need to house the homeless. Interest rates are low, so this is the time to
continue to address the homelessness crisis.53

FINDINGS

Fl.

F2.

F3,

F4,

FS.

F6,

F7,

F8.

The number of jobs in San Mateo County has grown beyond the number of new housing
units available. More housing is needed and Second Units are one solution.

From 2016 to 2020, the number of Second Units constructed annually within the County
dramatically increased by 450% (823) after related State laws were enacted in 2017.
Effective January 1, 2020, several additional new State laws were enacted in order to make
the construction of new Second Units easier for homeowners.

There are about 155,000 single-family homes in San Mateo County with only 4,000 Second
Units on those properties, so there is a potential for thousands of new Second Units.

The County has an unknown but large number of non-permitted Second Units. The new
2020 State laws are intended to make it easier for those units to be made safer, and
potentially to be brought up to permitting standards.

Barriers to building new Second Units and for upgrading non-permitted Second Units
include: a lack of knowledge by homeowners as to potential lenders in financing the
construction of a Second Unit and a lack of lenders in the region that have indicated their
willingness to engage in such financing, homeowners’ difficulty in finding contractors
willing to work on “small” projects such as Second Units, and the need to recruit and train
more inspectors.

DOH and the City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County have
co-sponsored and coordinated the “21 Elements Project” which aids all jurisdictions in the
County to work together on addressing their housing needs, including the development of
Second Units.

The San Mateo County Department of Housing is updating its website and marketing plan
that focuses on Second Units.

The City of San Jose has developed a Second Unit initiative that is worth examining
closely and possibly emulating. (See Appendix D).

RECOMMENDATIONS

RI.

The County and its cities should continue to develop or enhance existing outreach to
homeowners about the new laws that simplify and streamline the construction and
permitting of Second Units including but not limited to the following:

53 Bay Area Housing Post-Covid-19 http://www. kged.org/news/11818184/bav-area-housing-post-pandemic-

2019-2020 San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury 13

&nbsp;
85 of&nbsp; 154


--- page 86 ---
© posting relevant information on their websites regarding the process for the
construction and permitting of Second Units including materials such as
checklists and flowcharts;

© increasing social media and other outreach regarding the above-referenced
resources;

o offering workshops (live or online) regarding the process for the construction and
permitting of Second Units at least quarterly.

R2. By December 31, 2020, the County and its cities should commit to meeting for the purpose
of finding collaborative solutions for:

o developing and publicizing additional financial partners to help homeowners
finance the construction of new Second Units as well as the upgrading of non-
permitted existing Second Units;

o developing solutions to address the shortage of licensed contractors willing to
work on small projects including, but not limited to, the feasibility of licensed
contractors engaging and supervising non-licensed “handymen”

o identifying and collaborating with training institutions to recruit and train more
general contractors and inspectors.

Such meetings may occur in connection with 21 Elements Project meetings regarding
Second Units, or through a separate platform.

R3. The County and each city should develop a marketing plan to focus on the needs and
concerns of homeowners who have non-permitted units. This should be done by the end of
the calendar year 2020.

R4. The County and its cities should determine whether it is feasible to retain an outside
resource that can be shared among cities and the County to leverage Second Unit expertise.
This determination should be made by December 31, 2021.

REQUEST FOR RESPONSES
Pursuant to Penal Code Section 933.05, the Grand Jury requests responses as follows:
From the following governing bodies:
City Councils and County Board of Supervisors should respond to R1-R4.
The governing bodies indicated above should be aware that the comment or response of the

governing body must be conducted subject to the notice, agenda, and open meeting requirements
of the Brown Act.

2019-2020 San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury 14

&nbsp;
86 of&nbsp; 154


--- page 87 ---
METHODOLOGY

Documents
Alternative Dwelling Unit (ADU) SurveyMonkey Survey, December 2019.
ADU growth Survey by SMC Housing,

Interviews

Reports issued by the Civil Grand Jury do not identify individuals interviewed. Penal Code Section 929 requires that reports of

the Grand Jury not contain the name of any person or facts leading to the identity of any person who provides information to
the Civil Grand Jury.

Eight interviews were conducted with representatives of San Mateo County, San Mateo
County Housing Department, San Mateo County Planning and Building Department, San
Mateo Rebuilding Together Peninsula, Baird & Driskell and City of San Jose Building
Division - Permit Center.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units (JADUs).
California Department of Housing and Community Development,
https://www.hed.ca.gov/policy-research/Accessory Dwelling Units. shtml

(Accessed 7/23/2020)

Baird & Driskell Community Planning Consultants, 21 Elements Project.
http://2 Llelements.com/second-units (Accessed 7/23/2020)

Bay Area Housing Post-Covid-19. https://www.kged.org/news/11818184/bav
housing-post-pandemic-whats-in-store (Accessed 7/23/2020)

Califomia Housing Partnership analysis of 2018 1-year American Community Survey
(ACS) PUMS data with HUD income levels. https://1p08d9 1kd0c03rlxhmhtydpr-
wpengine.netdna-ss|.com/wp-
content/uploads/2020/03/CHPC_HousingNeedsReportCA_2020 Final-.pdf
(Accessed 7/23/2020)

Colorado, Melissa. “Making It In the Bay: How the Bay Area’s Housing Crisis Spiraled
Out of Control” February 10, 2020. https://Awww.nbebayvarea.com/news/local/making-it-
in-the-bay/making-it-in-the-bay-how-the-bay-areas-housing-crisis-spiraled-out-of-
control/2230410/ (Accessed 7/23/2020)

San Jose Backyard Homes News, October 21, 2019.
https://www.sjbackyardhomes.com/adu_ally/ (Accessed 7/23/2020)

Second Unit Workbook. (print and online) SMC Second Unit Resource Center.

2019-2020 San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury 15

&nbsp;
87 of&nbsp;154


--- page 88 ---
April 17, 2020. _https://secondunitcentersme.org/ or
1

hitos://plannine.smegov.org/second-unit-ordinance (Accessed 7/23/2020)

zs

APPENDIX A: Accessory Dwelling Units Approved by Jurisdiction
“Accessory Dwelling Units Approved by Jurisdiction” (2010-2018, with 2019 data added),
Annual Jurisdiction Survey, County of San Mateo.
Accessory Dwellings Units Approved By Jurisidiction (2010-2018)
i 1/1/17: effective date
of new state laws

Jurisdiction 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 = Total

[Atherton 1 5 7 8 4 10 9 WU 13 13” 68
‘Belmont 7 ] ] 2 ] 0 ] 0 18
Brisbane 0 0 0 L 0 _ 3 1b 16
‘Burlingame 0 ~ 0 ” 0 —_ 0 (0) . 2 10 28
Colma _ 0. _ 0 _ 0 ; 0 0 0 0 0
County of San Mateo 0) 0 4 ] 2 6 38 62
Daly city 6 8 3 7 3 4 ~« 68 166
East Palo Alto* 2 0 4 8 11
Hilsborough “13.413 17 «16 #15 19 8 15 15 il” 131
{Half Moon Bay ; (0) 0 3 _ 3 a 3 13 22
‘Menlo Park 3 8 7 13 15 tne 46
:Pacifica 7 —_ / _ 0 5 1 ay” 32
Portola Valley as - 4 3 7 7 - 8. 5 7” 63”
‘Redwood City ] - 1 / 2 7 ] 2 7 2 —_ 39 130
‘San Bruno _ 6 _ 3 __ 3 _ ] 3 ] 10 58 _
‘San Carlos ; ] ] ] 2 ] ] ] _ 15 42
‘San Mateo* 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 50-104
South San Francisco ] 3 ] 3 2 é 8 46 51
“otal “46 47 "46 «53 "53 74 «99 ~=«190 " 263 370 _—«*1108
:Source: Annual Jurisdiction Survey
* Estimates provided by cities prior to 2018 when tallies unavailable

2019-2020 San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury 16

&nbsp;
88 of&nbsp; 154


--- page 89 ---
£02

2610 «2011 «2012 «2013 «2014 42015 2016 217° 2018 «2019

APPENDIX B: Provision of New California Laws for Second Units

Provisions of the laws AB670, AB671, AB587, AB68, AB881, and SB13 include:

1.
2.
3.

4,

co

10.

1

—

12.

13.

14.

One Second Unit and one Junior Second Unit will be allowed on a single-family lot.
There will be no minimum lot size for the addition of a Second Unit.

No setback will be required if the Second Unit is the conversion of an existing structure
at the property line.

Second Units with a size up to 800 square feet that follow building construction standards
must be allowed.

Second Units under 800 square feet can be 16 feet tall and can have a setback of four feet
on the side and rear of the unit.

. Cities have 60 days to review permit applications. If they fail to do so, they are

automatically approved.

. No replacement parking for the main house is required if converting a garage.
. No parking is required for a Second Unit if it is within a half mile walk of transit.

No impact fees apply to Second Units less than 750 square feet. If larger than 750 square
feet, impact fees must be proportional to the main house.

Second Units that receive building permits between 1/1/2020 and 12/31/2024 are exempt
from owner-occupancy rules.

. Mandatory five-year stay of enforcement on non-permitted Second Units if health and

safety standards are met. This is based on Government Code Section 65852.2(n), which
will sunset in 2025.54

No short-term rentals of Second Units or Junior Second Units will be allowed for less
than 30 days to discourage vacation rentals.

Second Units will be allowed in multi-family and mixed-use zones. Second Units will be
allowed in multifamily buildings - up to two detached Second Units, plus allowing for the
conversion of uninhabited spaces for multiple Second Units (up to 25% of units in
multifamily buildings)

Home Owner’s Associations cannot ban Second Units or Junior Second Units, regardless
of any existing rules doing so. Home Owner’s Associations can set reasonable design
guidelines for Second Units and Junior Second Units.

54 Government Code Section 65852.2(n)

2019-2020 San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury 17

&nbsp;
89 of&nbsp; 154


--- page 90 ---
APPENDIX C: December 2019 Survey Questions

Questions from “Alternative Dwelling Unit (ADU)” SurveyMonkey Survey, December 2019.

1.

Among your city leadership, who is aware of the passage of these laws?
(AB 68, AB 587, AB 670, AB 671, AB 881 and SB 13). Please identify leaders by name with
contact information.

. Will your city be actively encouraging your residents to take advantage of these Second Unit

laws? (What might that entail?)

. Do you think there will/could be at least 50 parcels in your city, which might be eligible for a

Second Unit?

Do you anticipate that your city's homeowners as well as landlords will take advantage of
this opportunity?

How will you encourage your homeowners as well as landlords to take advantage of this
opportunity?

What obstacles do you anticipate encountering?

What kinds of support might you need in order to be able to actively implement these new
state laws?

Name (and contact information) of the person filling out the response to this survey.

APPENDIX D: San Jose’s ADU Ally

San Jose City’s ADU Ally has become a valuable resource in assisting San Jose homeowners
through the process of developing Second Units. Having a dedicated person for this initiative has
had an impact on the San Jose City’s effort. Some of the actions that have resulted from this
singular dedicated staff person include:

l.

2.

Serving as the dedicated staff person who is the

© contact person who deals with people and points them in the right direction.

o coordinator and connecter of homeowners to all city services and who demystifies the
process.

o tour guide for homeowners who are exploring the process of building a Second Unit.

o “hand holder” holds a homeowner’s hand as they walk through the process. The ADU
Ally is quoted as saying, “I can see them all of the way through to the end of the
project, help them to submit or resubmit plans, and then through permit issuance. And
when they need to schedule inspections, I can connect them to the right city staff
members.”

Online tools, handouts and information have been created including a Second Unit Universal
Checklist which offers step-by-step guidance. The City of San Jose Planning Department’s
ADU website is an example of a comprehensive and easy-to-read site, See
sanjoseca.gov/business/development-services-permit-center/accessory-dwelling-units-adus

The ADU Ally helped produce a YouTube video tutorial on how to build a Second Unit in
San Jose. This attracted more than 2,900 views, before it was taken down due to recent
changes in ADU regulations and Zoning Ordinances.

2019-2020 San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury 18

&nbsp;
90 of&nbsp; 154


--- page 91 ---
4. The San Jose ADU Ally has said that the resources created by this department would be
available for use during the San Mateo County Second Unit effort.

Issued: October 28, 2020

2019-2020 San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury 19

&nbsp;
91 of&nbsp;154


--- page 92 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200 
February 2, 2021
DELIVERED BY MAIL AND EMAIL
Hon. Danny Y. Chou
Judge of the Superior Court
c/o Jenarda Dubois
Hall of Justice
500 County Center, 8th Floor
Redwood City, CA 94063-1655
grandjury@sanmateocourt.org
Re:
Civil Grand Jury Report: “Second Units: Adding New Housing In The Neighborhoods”
Dear Honorable Judge Chou: 
Thank you for the opportunity to review and respond to the San Mateo County Civil Grand 
Jury report, “Second Units: Adding New Housing In The Neighborhoods” (the Report), filed on 
October 28, 2020. The City of San Mateo’s response to the Report’s findings and 
recommendations is provided below and will be scheduled to be reviewed at a regular 
meeting of the City Council scheduled on February 1, 2021.
Response to Grand Jury Findings:
Finding 1: The number of jobs in San Mateo County has grown beyond the number of new 
housing units available. More housing is needed and Second Units are one solution.
Response: The City agrees with this finding.
Finding 2: From 2016 to 2020, the number of Second Units constructed annually within the 
County dramatically increased by 450% (823) after related State laws were enacted in 2017. 
Effective January 1, 2020, several additional new State laws were enacted in order to make 
the construction of new Second Units easier for homeowners. 
Response: The City agrees with this finding.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
             330 West 20th Avenue
            San Mateo, CA 94403
     www.cityofsanmateo.org
92 of 154

--- page 93 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200 
Finding 3: There are about 155,000 single-family homes in San Mateo County with only 4,000 
Second Units on those properties, so there is a potential for thousands of new Second Units.
Response: The City agrees with this finding. The City presumes the 4,000 Second Units 
referenced in the finding speaks to legally permitted Second Units. An unknown 
number of unpermitted Second Units also exists which have the potential to be 
legalized given the provisions of the new state legislation.
Finding 4: The County has an unknown but large number of non-permitted Second Units. The 
new 2020 State laws are intended to make it easier for those units to be made safer, and 
potentially to be brought up to permitting standards. 
 
Response: The City agrees with this finding.
Finding 5: Barriers to building new Second Units and for upgrading non-permitted Second 
Units include:  a lack of knowledge by homeowners as to potential lenders in financing the 
construction of a Second Unit and a lack of lenders in the region that have indicated their 
willingness to engage in such financing, homeowners’ difficulty in finding contractors willing 
to work on “small” projects such as Second Units, and the need to recruit and train more 
inspectors.  
Response: The City agrees in part with this finding. A lack of homeowner awareness of 
financing and construction options are obstacles to Second Unit construction, but the 
City is unaware of any shortage of qualified building inspectors. The City currently has 
next day availability for building inspections. However, the timeline for inspecting 
completed Second Units is partially dependent on the overall volume of completed 
construction subject to inspection, such as it is with any other type of construction 
project. Additionally, second unit construction can be cost prohibitive and an 
additional barrier for homeowners considering certain types of second units. The City 
is not aware of any instance of the timeline for a building inspection constituting a 
hardship.
Finding 6: DOH and the City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County have 
co-sponsored and coordinated the “21 Elements Project” which aids all jurisdictions in the 
County to work together on addressing their housing needs, including the development of 
Second Units.  
Response: The City agrees with this finding.
Finding 7: The San Mateo County Department of Housing is updating its website and 
marketing plan that focuses on Second Units.   
Response: The City agrees in part with this finding. While it is true that the County is 
updating its website and marketing plans focused on Second Units, it is Home for All 
that is responsible for both of these tasks. Home for All is a County initiative co-
chaired by Supervisors Don Horsley and Carole Groom and administratively supported 
by staff from multiple County departments.
93 of 154

--- page 94 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200 
Finding 8: The City of San Jose has developed a Second Unit initiative that is worth examining 
closely and possibly emulating. (See Appendix D).
Response: The City agrees with this finding.
 
Response to Grand Jury Recommendations:
Recommendation 1: The County and its cities should continue to develop or enhance existing 
outreach to homeowners about the new laws that simplify and streamline the construction 
and permitting of Second Units including but not limited to the following:  

posting relevant information on their websites regarding the process for the construction 
and permitting of Second Units including materials such as checklists and flowcharts;

increasing social media and other outreach regarding the above-referenced resources;

offering workshops (live or online) regarding the process for the construction and 
permitting of Second Units at least quarterly.
Response: This recommendation has been implemented. The City currently has 
resources online for those seeking to build ADUs and JADUs, which can be found at 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3907/Accessory-Dwelling-Unit-ADU. These 
resources include permit fee information and links to a comprehensive ADU/JADU 
Development Standards Guide and a ADU/JADU Plan Submittal Guide that outlines all 
the necessary information and documents required to submit a complete ADU/JADU 
application. Additionally, the landing page features a direct link to SymbiumBuild, a 
web platform that provides interactive mapping to help visualize land use and zoning, 
simplifies complicated local and state regulations, and can help citizens navigate the 
permitting process.
In addition to these resources, staff is currently reviewing the City of San Jose’s 
preapproved ADU design program for the purpose of developing and implementing a 
similar program to allow ADU designers and builders a way to offer their customers a 
lower-cost and expedited way through the permit process. This pilot effort would 
involve substantial outreach to the community and is likely to raise awareness 
citywide of that legislation that streamlines ADU and JADU construction. Finally, staff 
plans to promote ADU resources as available through the City’s social media channels.
Recommendation 2: By December 31, 2020, the County and its cities should commit to 
meeting for the purpose of finding collaborative solutions for:

developing and publicizing additional financial partners to help homeowners finance the 
construction of new Second Units as well as the upgrading of non-permitted existing 
Second Units;

developing solutions to address the shortage of licensed contractors willing to work on 
small projects including, but not limited to, the feasibility of licensed contractors engaging 
and supervising non-licensed “handymen;”
94 of 154

--- page 95 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200 

identifying and collaborating with training institutions to recruit and train more general 
contractors and inspectors.
Such meetings may occur in connection with 21 Elements Project meetings regarding Second 
Units, or through a separate platform.
Response: This recommendation is in the process of being implemented. On 
December 3, 2020, a 21 Elements meeting was held to explore aspects of Second Unit 
construction, including financing resources and availability of construction workforce. 
City staff will continue to collaborate with 21 Elements on these topics in 2021. 
As previously noted, the City is not aware of a shortage of qualified building 
inspectors. The City currently has next day availability (inspection request cut-off at 3 
p.m.). However, the timeframe for inspecting completed Second Units is partially 
dependent on the overall volume of completed construction subject to inspection, but 
Second Units have been affected in the same way as any other construction project. 
The City is not aware of any instance of the timeline for a building inspection 
constituting a unique hardship.
Recommendation 3: The County and each city should develop a marketing plan to focus on 
the needs and concerns of homeowners who have non-permitted units. This should be done 
by the end of the calendar year 2020.
Response: This recommendation has been partially implemented. The City abides by 
the provisions of the new State legislation which allows for a five-year delay in 
enforcement of violations related to unpermitted Second Units upon formal request 
by the property owner and provided there are no existing health and safety violations. 
The City’s Code Enforcement, Planning, Fire, and Building Department staff have been 
working closely with owners of unpermitted Second Units to legalize those units 
whenever possible. Information on the code enforcement deferral is provided in the 
ADU/JADU Standards link available on the City’s dedicated  ADU & JADU webpage. The 
City is set to embark on community outreach efforts associated with its ADU/JADU 
Ordinance in the first half of 2021. Part of that effort will include educating the public 
on pathways to legalize unpermitted Second Units and the five-year delay in 
enforcement deferral via online resources, eNewsletter, social media, and virtual 
community meetings.
Recommendation 4: The County and its cities should determine whether it is feasible to 
retain an outside resource that can be shared among cities and the County to leverage 
Second Unit expertise. This determination should be made by December 31, 2021.
Response: This recommendation has not yet been implemented. The City will continue 
to explore and pursue solutions by supporting and participating with the County 
through the 21 Elements collaborative, as well as monitor additional best practices 
through its engagement with the County of San Mateo through its Home for All 
program and the Casita Coalition, a statewide association of Second Unit professionals 
and advocates. The City also is learning from the experience of the City of San Jose’s 
“ADU Ally” and how this kind of assistance can support homeowner success. The City 
95 of 154

--- page 96 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200 
is currently reviewing a wide range of options for the purpose of facilitating Second 
Unit development, including discussions with non-profit Second Unit experts such as 
HEART of San Mateo County to learn about speeding up the design and entitlement 
process by utilizing pre-approved ADU prototype designs. Once these options have 
been investigated thoroughly, staff will present them to our recommending and 
decision-making bodies accordingly prior to the December 31, 2021, date as specified.
Respectfully, 
Mayor, City of San Mateo
96 of 154

--- page 97 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
;
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 21-4179
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
February 01, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Extension of Temporary Street Closure and Moratorium on Regulations Affecting Outdoor Activities; Adoption of Updated 
“Temporary Outdoor Dining Guidelines;” and Discussion of Parklets  
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to extend the temporary street closures through September 30, 2021 and to update the “Temporary 
Outdoor Dining Guidelines”; adopt an Emergency Ordinance to extend the moratorium on enforcement of minimum 
parking space requirements and zoning regulations for commercial uses in private shopping centers; and provide feedback 
on policy options for a long-term parklet program.
BACKGROUND:
In June 2020, the City Council authorized the use of on-street parking spaces, approved the temporary closure of portions 
of B Street and Baldwin, and waived the enforcement of minimum parking and zoning regulations in private shopping 
centers in order to accommodate outdoor dining and other outdoor business uses during the COVID-19 pandemic.  On 
September 21, 2020, the City Council authorized extending the street closures and outdoor dining program through March 
1, 2021 due to the continuing pandemic.  The County was recently under a State Regional Stay at Home Order that 
prohibited outdoor dining. The State order was lifted on January 25, 2021 and outdoor dining has been allowed to resume. 
Given the ongoing nature of the pandemic, staff recommends extending the temporary street closures and temporary 
outdoor dining program through September 30, 2021. Staff also recommends reauthorizing the moratorium on the 
enforcement of minimum parking and zoning regulations for private shopping centers to allow outdoor business 
operations to occur. Additionally, as many businesses have extensively invested in the construction of parklets and have 
made inquiries on their ability to keep them longer-term, staff believes it is timely to develop guidelines that allow for 
parklet installations beyond the pandemic. This report will outline some policy considerations for a long-term parklet 
program for Council consideration.
Resolution Extending Temporary Street Closures and Temporary Outdoor Dining Guidelines
The proposed resolution (Attachment 1) will extend the temporary street closures on B Street between Baldwin and 3rd 
Avenue through September 30, 2021 or until the state of emergency is terminated by the Governor or State Legislature, 
whichever is sooner. In addition, it includes the updated Temporary Outdoor Dining Guidelines, which govern outdoor 
dining on closured streets, parklets, and sidewalks, including the design of any structures and barricades.  The guidelines 
have been revised to reflect this new end date and the current State and County Health Orders and industry guidance. 
Staff completed an Initial Study and Negative Declaration (IS/ND) to analyze the potential environmental impacts of the 
extension of the temporary street closure as well as a possible future permanent or seasonal street closure program. The 
analysis did not identify any significant environmental impacts. Staff will continue to evaluate the temporary street 
closures as a pilot program and will return to City Council at a later date for an in-depth discussion of considerations for a 
97 of 154

--- page 98 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
potential permanent or seasonal street closure program. 
Emergency Ordinance on Enforcement of Minimum Parking and Zoning Requirements
On November 16, 2020, the City Council extended an emergency ordinance to suspend the minimum parking 
requirements and the enforcement of zoning regulations prohibiting outdoor operations in private shopping centers. The 
Ordinance will expire on February 14, 2021 unless re-adopted by City Council. Under the Ordinance, restaurants, gyms and 
fitness centers, personal care services, hair salons and barbershops, places of worship, and retailers for outdoor operations 
would still be subject to State, County, industry and local guidelines. Any business interested in moving its operations 
outdoors would require permission from their property manager/landlord. If adopted, the Emergency Ordinance 
(Attachment 2) will be in effect for 90 days until May 2, 2021, but may be extended beyond that time frame by further 
action of the Council.  
Long-Term Parklet Program Considerations
A portion of the restaurants that have installed temporary parklets have expressed interest in retaining their parklets after 
the pandemic. Parklets are an amenity that have been considered in the past as part of the Downtown Specific Plan 
discussions and have been previously piloted within the Downtown at limited locations. In response to the interest from 
restaurants and based on the success of the temporary parklet program, staff formed an interdepartmental working group 
to develop design parameters for a long-term parklet program and to make recommendations on policy considerations. 
This group included staff from the City Manager’s Office, Community Development, Public Works, Police, and SMC Fire. 
As a first step in the process, staff developed building construction guidelines to address key issues such as traffic safety, 
drainage and stormwater flow, and ADA accessibility. These Custom Built Parklet Design Guidelines were developed based 
on extensive review of existing guidelines from other cities with pre-pandemic parklet programs. Although the City has not 
adopted a long-term parklet program, staff made these guidelines available on our website to restaurants so that they 
could construct temporary parklets that could be converted to permanent installations in the future.  It is expected that 
long-term parklet installations will provide their own traffic protection measures, including wheel stops and bollards, and 
will not require the use of the water-filled barricades that the City is currently providing. In addition, long-term 
installations will not be allowed to have the overhead structures that are currently in place to weatherize the temporary 
parklets and allow for outdoor dining in inclement weather. Once the pandemic is over and indoor dining resumes at full-
capacity, overhead structures will not be necessary to support business operations. 
In order to move forward with the development of a permanent parklet program, City Council feedback is needed on 
staff’s recommended approach to the policy considerations for the parklet program. Staff intends to return to the City 
Council for adoption of a permanent parklet program prior to the close of the temporary outdoor dining extension.
Should parklets be allowed in any commercial district in the City or only in the Downtown?
The temporary parklet program allows for parklets in all commercial districts of the City. Staff recommends continuing this 
for the long-term parklet program for all commercial areas along the public right-of-way under the control of the City. 
Businesses along El Camino would not be allowed to have parklets since that right-of-way is controlled by Caltrans. 
Additionally, businesses in private shopping centers would not be covered by this program and would need to meet the 
minimum parking standards and zoning code requirements. 
Should parklets be public or privately controlled spaces?
In some jurisdictions, including San Francisco, parklets are considered public spaces, which means that anyone can use 
them, regardless of whether they are a patron of the business that hosts the parklet. This means that restaurants cannot 
provide direct table service to their parklets and patrons can use them to eat food purchased from other businesses. Other 
cities allow the spaces to be privately controlled and exclusively used by the host business. Staff recommends allowing the 
parklets to be privately controlled by the host business. This will help ensure that the host business will be able to justify 
the expense of constructing and maintaining the parklet.
How many parking spaces can a business be allowed to use for a parklet?
The temporary outdoor dining program currently allows for parklets that extend well beyond a restaurant frontage in 
98 of 154

--- page 99 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
order to maximize outdoor dining during the pandemic. Staff recommends limiting long-term parklets to the frontage of 
the host business and also capping the number of parking spaces allowed to be used by any one business to 2 parallel 
spaces or 3 diagonal spaces. Additionally, staff recommends that businesses at corner locations only be allowed to have 
parklets along one frontage of their property.  This will mitigate the impact on adjacent businesses and on the broader 
parking supply within in the Downtown. 
What should be the basis for the annual permit and encroachment fee?
The City is not currently charging fees for review of the permit application or for the use of the public right-of-way under 
the temporary outdoor dining program in order to help support our businesses during the pandemic. However, it is 
common practice for cities to charge both a permit review fee and an annual encroachment fee for parklet installations 
since it impacts the City’s parking meter revenues and also provides a significant expansion of square footage for the 
business. 
Staff recommends setting the permit review fee based on the staff time required to review the permit application, which 
will need to be reviewed by multiple departments, and to inspect the parklets upon completion. The permit review fee 
would be a one-time fee for when the parklet is first established and would be in addition to the annual encroachment fee. 
Staff estimates that the permit review fee would be set at $500 per parklet.
The annual encroachment fee could be based on the average per parking space meter revenue in the Downtown, which is 
roughly $1,000 per space. The business could be charged based on the number of parking spaces that are off-line as a 
result of their parklet, which would be $2,000 to $3,000 per year depending on the location. Alternatively, the fee could be 
set as a flat fee of $2,000 in order to not penalize businesses on streets with diagonal parking, which necessitates the use 
of more parking spaces in order to obtain a similar square footage. Staff recommends that the annual encroachment fee 
be charged, regardless of whether a parklet is located in a metered parking space.
Should we place a cap on how many parklets are allowed in any area?
Staff does not know how many businesses will want to retain their parklets beyond the pandemic.  Depending on the level 
of interest, there is a potential that parklets could significantly impact the availability of on-street parking in an area, 
especially outside of the Downtown where there are fewer alternative off-street parking options. As a result, the City may 
want to consider capping the number of parklets allowed in different commercial areas (or along specific streets in the 
Downtown). This would allow for parklets on a first-come, first-serve basis. Staff recommends holding off on setting caps 
at the present time and evaluating the demand in the initial year of the program. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The continuation of the temporary street closures and the extension of the temporary outdoor dining program results in a 
loss of parking meter revenue to the City. At the present, over 200 metered on-street parking spaces are not available due 
to the street closures and parklets. It is not possible to estimate the exact amount of the loss in revenue since the loss of 
on-street parking spaces is mitigated by increased use of the City’s parking garages. A long-term parklet program will also 
result in the loss of on-street metered parking spaces, which will be partially offset by increased parking garage occupancy.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The City completed an Initial Study and Negative Declaration (IS/ND), which evaluated the environmental impact of the 
temporary street closure extension and is included as Exhibit A to the proposed resolution (Attachment 1). No potentially 
significant impacts on the environment were identified. In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15304(e), the 
adoption of the revisions to the Temporary Outdoor Dining Guidelines and the Emergency Ordinance re-imposing the 
moratorium on enforcement of minimum parking space requirements and zoning regulations for commercial uses in 
private shopping centers are categorically exempt from CEQA because they involve a minor temporary use of land having 
negligible or no permanent effects on the environment.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
99 of 154

--- page 100 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Notice of the publication of the IS/ND and the discussion of the extension of the temporary street closure was published in 
the San Mateo Daily Journal, on the City’s website, posted on the applicable streets, and mailed to all properties within 
1,000 feet of the street closures.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Proposed Emergency Ordinance
Att 3 – Public Comment
STAFF CONTACT
Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager
kkleinbaum@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7153
100 of 154

--- page 101 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2021) 
 
EXTENDING AUTHORIZATION FOR TEMPORARY USE OF PORTIONS OF B STREET AND BALDWIN AVENUE FOR 
OUTDOOR DINING AND ADOPTING UPDATED GUIDELINES FOR OUTDOOR DINING AND APPROVING THE 
INITIAL STUDY/NEGATIVE DECLARATION FOR THE TEMPORARY STREET CLOSURE 
 
 
WHEREAS, the Governor of California has declared a state of emergency due to the COVID-19 pandemic; 
and 
 
 
WHEREAS, outdoor restaurant dining, when allowed by State Health Orders, has provided critical 
economic relief to restaurant businesses in the City of San Mateo; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo wishes to accommodate outdoor dining in the downtown area, when 
allowed by Health Orders, in order to enable restaurants to provide service to patrons in a safe manner in 
accordance with State COVID-19 guidelines; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo adopted a resolution on June 29, 2020 allowing for temporary street 
closures through October 19, 2020; and 
 
WHEREAS, due to the continuing pandemic, the City adopted a resolution on September 21, 2020 
extending the temporary closure through March 1, 2021; and 
 
WHEREAS, as the pandemic is still ongoing, the City now wishes extend the temporary closure through 
September 30, 2021 or until the end of the public health emergency, whichever is sooner; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, Vehicle Code Section 21101(e) authorizes cities to temporarily close a portion of any street 
when the closing is necessary for the safety and protection of persons who are to use that street during the 
temporary closure; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City has adopted guidelines for the operation of outdoor dining facilities; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City wishes to update those guidelines; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the City 
prepared an Initial Study and Negative Declaration (IS/ND) which analyzed potential environmental impacts of 
the street closure and determined there would be no potential significant impacts; and 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that: 
 
1. The Initial Study and Negative Declaration (IS/ND) (attached hereto as Exhibit A) is approved and 
adequately assesses the environmental impacts of the proposed project. No potentially significant impacts on 
the environment have been identified.  
101 of 154

--- page 102 ---
2. The temporary closing of the portions of B Street and Baldwin Avenue depicted in Attachment A to 
Exhibit A is necessary to accommodate outdoor dining and for the safety and protection of persons engaged in 
outdoor dining. 
3. The temporary street closure plans prepared by the City Engineer and depicted in in Attachment A 
to Exhibit A to this Resolution have been prepared in conformity with the City and Department of Transportation 
safety standards. 
4. Substantial evidence supports the reasonableness of the plans with regard to public safety. 
5. The temporary street closure design is approved. 
6. The portions of B Street and Baldwin Avenue depicted in in Attachment A to Exhibit A to this 
Resolution are closed to vehicular and bicycle traffic through September 30, 2021 or until the end of the public 
health emergency, whichever is sooner. 
7. Pursuant to Vehicle Code Sections 21103 and 22651(n), the City Engineer is directed to cause signs 
to be placed at all entrances to the streets designated to be closed and provide notice that violators may be 
cited for a violation of the temporary street closure. Lettering on the signs shall be at least one inch in height. 
8. Notwithstanding provisions in the San Mateo Municipal Code to the contrary, the City Council 
hereby authorizes limited temporary expansion of existing restaurant uses in the specific areas of the public 
right-of-way shown in in Attachment A to Exhibit A to this Resolution, which includes both shared outdoor 
dining spaces as well as outdoor dining spaces unique to the restaurants fronting those areas. 
9.   The City Council adopts the updated Outdoor Dining During COVID-19 Guidelines attached as Exhibit 
B to this resolution.   
10.   All outdoor dining installations must adhere to the updated Guidelines. 
11. 
This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption and terminate at midnight on 
September 30, 2021, unless extended by Resolution of the City Council. 
 
102 of 154

--- page 103 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Negative Declaration  
 
Pursuant to Section 21000 et seq of the Public Resources Code and the City of San Mateo 
Environmental Review Guidelines and Procedures, a Negative Declaration is hereby adopted for the 
following project: 
 
1. Project Title and Number: 
Closure of Portions of S. B Street  
 
2. Lead Agency Name and Address: 
City of San Mateo 
 
330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
 
3. Contact Person and Phone Number: 
Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager   
 
kkleinbaum@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
(650) 522-7153 
 
4. Project Location and APN: 
S. B Street in Downtown San Mateo between  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baldwin Avenue, 1st Avenue, and 3rd Avenue  
 
 
 
5. Project Sponsor's Name & Address: 
City of San Mateo  
 
Office of the City Manager 
 
330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
(650) 522-7153 
 
kkleinbaum@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
6. General Plan Designation: 
The Circulation Element designates S. B Street as a 
Collector Street. Adjacent land use designation is 
Downtown Retail Core  
 
7. Zoning: 
CBD: Central  
 
Business  
 
 
 
103 of 154

--- page 104 ---
8. Description of Project: 
 
 
The Project consists of a staff-initiated street closure for portions of South B Street between 
Baldwin Avenue and 3rd Street.   
 
Following City Council direction in June 2020, the segments of S. B Street between 1st Avenue and 
3rd Avenue and the southbound lane between Baldwin Avenue and 1st Avenue were temporarily 
closed to vehicular traffic.  The temporary closure was approved to allow for expanded outdoor 
dining for restaurants during the COVID-19 public health emergency. The temporary closure was 
originally approved for closure from June to October 2020. Due to the continuation of the public 
health crisis, the temporary closure is proposed to be extended through September 2021. The 
temporary street closure was approved under California Vehicle Code Section 21101 and was 
exempt from environmental review pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.  
 
It is now the City’s intent to evaluate permanently allowing for the closure of S. B Street between 
1st and 3rd Avenues and the southbound lane between Baldwin and 1st Avenue to vehicular traffic. 
This closure will create a pedestrian-only zone and maintain the expanded areas for outdoor dining. 
The closure would also enable use of the street for special events (i.e., city-sponsored festivals and 
street fairs). The permanent closure allows the City flexibility to close the above-mentioned 
segments of S. B Street year-round or seasonally. This document evaluates the extension of the 
temporary closure (through September 2021) and the potential permanent closure.  
 
To accommodate the permanent lane closures, a 12-foot fire lane will be maintained in the center 
of the street for emergency access for public safety vehicles. The fire lane will also be utilized in the 
mornings (before 10:00 am) to allow for garbage service and deliveries to business located on the 
effected blocks.  
 
Barricades and “Road Closed” signs will be posted at each end of the closed street segments. 
Additionally, turn restriction signs will be posted to alert drivers traveling east/west along the 
intersections of the closed street segments. Please refer to Attachment A for a Traffic Control Plan 
showing the location and types of barricades and signage.  
 
There is no physical development proposed as part of this project. The purpose of this analysis is to 
evaluate potential environmental impacts as a result of closing the above-described segments of S. 
B Street to vehicular traffic.  
 
9. Surrounding Land Uses and Setting: 
 
The Project is a street closure of existing segments S. B Street between 1st and 3rd Avenues and 
the southbound only lane of S. B Street between Baldwin Avenue and 1st Avenue. Surrounding 
land uses includes restaurant, retail, general service, and office uses.   
 
 
 
 
 
104 of 154

--- page 105 ---
10. Requested Applications:

A. Negative Declaration to assess environmental impacts; and
B. Adoption of Resolution for Temporary Street Closure and/or Adoption of Ordinance for

Permanent Street Closure.
11. Other Public Agencies whose approval is Required: No other Agency approval is required.

Finding: | Based on the attached Initial Study and the testimony received at a duly noticed public
hearing, a Negative Declaration is granted, based on the judgment that:

Xx The project will not have a significant effect on the environment.
The significant effects of the project noted in the initiai Study attached have been
mitigated by modifications in the project, or by imposition of required mitigation

measures listed in the Initial Study, so that the potential adverse effects are
reduced to a point where no significant effects would occur.

J2/ 3/1/20

Christina Horrisberger, Community Development Director Date

UA
Mpgne~ 12/31/2020
Preparet’by Charity Wagner, Consulting Planner Date

&nbsp;
105 of&nbsp;154


--- page 106 ---
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ASSESSMENT 
 
Items identified in each section of the environmental checklist below are discussed following that section. 
Required mitigation measures are identified (if applicable) where necessary to reduce a projected impact to a 
level that is determined to be less than significant. The General Plan Environmental Impact Report (State 
Clearinghouse number 89100308) is herein incorporated by reference in accordance with Section 15150 of the 
CEQA Guidelines. Copies of this document and all other documents referenced herein are available for review 
at the City of San Mateo Planning Division, 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo.  
 
 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less Than 
Significant 
Impact 
No 
Impact 
AESTHETICS Except as provided in Public Resources Code 
21099, would the project:  
 
 
 
 
a) Have a substantial effect upon a scenic vista? 
 
 
 
 
b) Substantially damage scenic resources, including, 
but not limited to, trees, rock outcroppings and historic 
buildings within a state scenic highway? 
 
 
 
 
c) In non-urbanized areas, substantially degrade the 
existing visual character or quality of public views of the site 
and its surroundings? (Public views are those that are 
experienced from publicly accessible vantage points.) If the 
project is in an urbanized area, would the project conflict 
with applicable zoning and other regulations governing 
scenic quality? 
 
 
 
 
d) Create a new source of substantial light or glare 
which would adversely affect day or nighttime views in the 
area? 
 
 
 
 
Findings of Fact: There will be no aesthetic impacts. The Project is a street closure. No physical development is 
proposed as part of this Project.  
 
The street closure will not change the built environment thereby not resulting in impacts to scenic vistas, damage 
of scenic resources, degradation of visual character, nor will the street closure result in new sources or light or 
glare in the area.  
 
 
Mitigation:   No mitigation is required.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
106 of 154

--- page 107 ---
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less 
Than 
Significant 
Impact 
No 
Impact 
 
 
 
AGRICULTURE & FOREST RESOURCES Would the project: 
a) 
Convert Prime Farmland, Unique Farmland, or 
Farmland of Statewide Importance (Farmland) as shown on the 
maps prepared pursuant to the Farmland Mapping and 
Monitoring Program of the California Resources Agency, to non-
agricultural use? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Conflict with existing agricultural zoning, agricultural 
use or with land subject to a Williamson Act contract? 
 
 
 
 
c) 
Conflict with existing zoning for, or cause rezoning of, 
forest land (as defined in Public Resources Code section 12220(g)), 
timberland (as defined by Public Resources Code section 4526), or 
timberland zoned Timberland Production (as defined by 
Government Code section 51104(g))? 
 
 
 
 
d) 
Result in the loss of forest land or conversion of forest 
land to non-forest use?  
 
 
 
 
 
e) 
Involve other changes in the existing environment 
which, due to their location or nature, could result in conversion 
of Farmland, to non-agricultural use or conversion of forest land 
to non-forest use? 
 
 
 
 
 
Findings of Fact:   There will be no agricultural or forest impacts. The Project is a street closure for segments of 
S. B Street in Downtown San Mateo.  No impacts to agricultural lands, forest land, nor any other changes that 
would impair or convert agricultural or forest lands would result from approval of this street closure.  
 
Mitigation:   No mitigation is required.  
 
 
AIR QUALITY Would the project: 
a) 
Conflict with or obstruct implementation of the 
applicable air quality plan? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Result in a cumulatively considerable net increase of 
any criteria pollutant for which the project region is non-
attainment under an applicable federal or state ambient air 
quality standard? 
 
 
 
 
c) 
Expose sensitive receptors, which are located within 
one (1) mile of the project site, to substantial pollutant 
concentrations? 
 
 
 
 
d) 
Result in other emissions (such as those leading to 
odors) adversely affecting a substantial number of people? 
 
 
 
 
Findings of Fact:   There will be no air quality impacts. The Project is a street closure. No physical development 
is proposed as part of this Project. The street closure allows for business along the segments of S. B Street 
107 of 154

--- page 108 ---
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less 
Than 
Significant 
Impact 
No 
Impact 
 
between Baldwin Avenue and 3rd Street to expand outdoor seating and service areas and to allow use the street 
for City-sponsored community events.  
 
Allowing for street closure to have busines expand outdoor service area and City-sponsored events will not result 
in significant air quality impacts. The street closure does not alleviate or modify compliance requirements with 
applicable air quality plans. The street closure does not promote or encourage development that would conflict 
with air quality plans or expose sensitive receptors to substantial pollutant concentrations. The street closure 
allows for expanded service for restaurants that are otherwise already permitted within the underlying zoning. 
Implementation of this street closure will not result in cumulative considerable net increases to criteria 
pollutants nor result in other emissions that affect substantial numbers of people.  
 
Mitigation:   No mitigation is required.  
 
 
BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES  Would the project: 
a) 
Have a substantial adverse effect, either directly or 
through habitat modifications, on any species identified as a 
candidate, sensitive, or special status species in local or regional 
plans, policies, or regulations, or by the California Department of 
Fish and Wildlife (CDFW) or U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 
(USFWS)? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Have a substantial adverse effect on any riparian 
habitat or other sensitive natural community identified in local or 
regional plans, policies, regulations or by the CDFW or USFWS? 
 
 
 
 
c) 
Have a substantial adverse effect on state or federally 
protected wetlands (including, but not limited to, marsh, vernal 
pool, coastal, etc.) through direct removal, filling, hydrological 
interruption, or other means 
 
 
 
 
d) 
Interfere substantially with the movement of any 
native resident or migratory fish or wildlife species or with 
established native resident or migratory wildlife corridors, or 
impede the use of native wildlife nursery sites?   
 
 
 
 
e) 
Conflict with any local policies or ordinances protecting 
biological resources, such as a tree preservation policy or 
ordinance?  
 
 
 
 
f) 
Conflict with the provisions of an adopted Habitat 
Conservation Plan, Natural Community Conservation Plan, or 
other approved local, regional, or state habitat conservation plan? 
 
 
 
 
Findings of Fact:   There will be no biological impacts. The street closure allows for business along the segments 
of S. B Street between Baldwin Avenue and 3rd Street to expand outdoor seating and service areas and City-
sponsored events.  No physical development is proposed as part of this Project.  
 
No impacts to a) protected species, b) riparian habitat, c) wetlands, d) wildlife corridors, e) tree preservation 
ordinances, or f) compliance with habitat conservation plans would occur as a result of this street closure.   
 
108 of 154

--- page 109 ---
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less 
Than 
Significant 
Impact 
No 
Impact 
 
Mitigation:   No mitigation is required.  
 
 
CULTURAL RESOURCES  Would the project: 
a) 
Cause a substantial adverse change in the significance 
of a historical resource pursuant to § 15064.5? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Cause a substantial adverse change in the significance 
of an archaeological resource pursuant to § 15064.5? 
 
 
 
 
c) 
Disturb any human remains, including those interred 
outside of formal cemeteries?  
 
 
 
 
 
Findings of Fact:   There will be no cultural resource impacts. The Project is a street closure that allows for 
business along the segments of S. B Street between Baldwin Avenue and 3rd Street to expand outdoor seating 
and service areas, as well as, City-sponsored events.  No physical development is proposed as part of this Project. 
The street closure will not result in adverse changes to historical resources, paleontological resources, nor 
disturbance of human remains.    
 
Mitigation:   No mitigation is required.  
 
 
ENERGY  Would the project: 
a) 
Result in potentially significant environmental impacts 
due to wasteful, inefficient, or unnecessary consumption of 
energy resources, during project construction or operation? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Conflict with or obstruct a State or Local plan for 
renewable energy or energy efficiency? 
 
 
 
 
c) 
Result in a substantial increase in demand upon energy 
resources in relation to projected supplies? 
 
 
 
 
Findings of Fact:   There will be no energy impacts. The street closure allows for business along the segments of 
S. B Street between Baldwin Avenue and 3rd Street to allow for City-sponsored events (i.e., street fairs, festivals, 
and other community-centered events) and to expand outdoor seating and service areas for restaurants.  No 
physical development is proposed as part of this Project. The street closure will not result in increased use of 
energy consumption or conflict with plan for renewable energy efficiency.  
 
Mitigation:   No mitigation is required.  
 
 
GEOLOGY AND SOILS  Would the project directly or indirectly:  
a) 
Directly or indirectly cause potential substantial 
adverse effects, including the risk of loss, injury, or death 
involving:   
 
 
 
 
i) Rupture of a known earthquake fault, as delineated on 
the most recent Alquist-Priolo Earthquake Fault Zoning 
Map issued by the State Geologist for the area or based on 
 
 
 
 
109 of 154

--- page 110 ---
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less 
Than 
Significant 
Impact 
No 
Impact 
 
other substantial evidence of a known fault? Refer to 
Division of Mines and Geology Special Publication 42.   
 
 ii) Strong seismic ground shaking?       
 
 
 
 
 
iii) Seismic-related ground failure, including liquefaction?      
 
 
 
 
iv) Landslides? 
 
 
 
 
b) Result in substantial soil erosion or the loss of topsoil?   
 
 
 
 
 
c) Be located on a geologic unit or soil that is unstable, or that 
would become unstable as a result of the project, and potentially 
result in on- or off-site landslide, lateral spreading, subsidence, 
liquefaction or collapse?   
 
 
 
 
d) Be located on expansive soil, as defined in Table 18-1-B of the 
Uniform Building Code (1994), creating substantial direct or 
indirect risks to life or property?   
 
 
 
 
e) Have soils incapable of adequately supporting the use of septic 
tanks or alternative waste water disposal systems where sewers 
are not available for the disposal of waste water? 
 
 
 
 
f) Directly or indirectly destroy a unique paleontological resource 
or site or unique geologic feature? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Findings of Fact:   There will be no geology and soil impacts. The street closure allows for business along the 
segments of S. B Street between Baldwin Avenue and 3rd Street to allow for City-sponsored events (i.e., street 
fairs, festivals, and other community-centered events) and to expand outdoor seating and service areas for 
restaurants.  No physical development is proposed as part of this Project. The street closure does not result in 
increased risk of loss, injury, or death involving earthquakes, seismic ground shaking, liquefaction, landslides or 
erosion of top soil.  
 
Mitigation:   No mitigation is required.  
 
 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS  Would the project: 
a) 
Generate greenhouse gas emissions, either directly or 
indirectly, that may have a significant impact on the environment? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Conflict with an applicable plan, policy or regulation 
adopted for the purpose of reducing the emissions of greenhouse 
gases? 
 
 
 
 
 
Findings of Fact:   There will be no impacts. Approval of this street closure would permanently close segments 
of S. B Street in downtown to through vehicular traffic.  The street closure allows for business along the segments 
of S. B Street between Baldwin Avenue and 3rd Street to allow for City-sponsored events (i.e., street fairs, 
festivals, and other community-centered events) and to expand outdoor seating and service areas for 
restaurants.    
110 of 154

--- page 111 ---
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less 
Than 
Significant 
Impact 
No 
Impact 
 
 
The street closure does not involve any new physical development and will not result in significant greenhouse 
gas impacts. Closing the street to vehicular traffic could conceivably result in more people walking to shops and 
businesses downtown thereby reducing car trips and associated car emissions.  
 
Mitigation:   No mitigation is required.  
 
 
HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS  Would the project: 
a) 
Create a significant hazard to the public or the 
environment through the routine transport, use, or disposal of 
hazardous materials? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Create a significant hazard to the public or the 
environment through reasonably foreseeable upset and accident 
conditions involving the release of hazardous materials into the 
environment? 
 
 
 
 
c) 
Impair implementation of or physically interfere with 
an adopted emergency response plan or an emergency 
evacuation plan? 
 
 
 
 
d) 
Emit hazardous emissions or handle hazardous or 
acutely hazardous materials, substances, or waste within one-
quarter (1/4) mile of an existing or proposed school? 
 
 
 
 
e) 
Be located on a site which is included on a list of 
hazardous materials sites compiled pursuant to Government 
Code Section 65962.5 and, as a result, would it create a significant 
hazard to the public or the environment? 
 
 
 
 
 
Findings of Fact:   There will be no hazard or hazardous material impacts. The Project is a street closure for 
segments of S. B Street. No physical development is proposed as part of this Project. The street closure does not 
cause nor increase the potential for transporting or disposing of hazardous materials, accidental release of 
hazardous waste materials, impair emergency plans, emit increased emissions near schools, nor cause of future 
projects to be located on hazardous materials sites.  
 
Mitigation:   No mitigation is required.  
 
 
HYDROLOGY AND WATER QUALITY  Would the project: 
a) 
Violate any water quality standards or waste discharge 
requirements or otherwise substantially degrade surface or 
ground water quality? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Substantially decrease groundwater supplies or 
interfere substantially with groundwater recharge such that the 
project may impede sustainable groundwater management of the 
basin? 
 
 
 
 
111 of 154

--- page 112 ---
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less 
Than 
Significant 
Impact 
No 
Impact 
 
c) 
Substantially alter the existing drainage pattern of the 
site or area, including through the alteration of the course of a 
stream or river or through the addition of impervious surfaces? 
 
 
 
 
d) 
Result in substantial erosion or siltation on-site or off-
site? 
 
 
 
 
e) 
Substantially increase the rate or amount of surface 
runoff in a manner which would result in flooding on-site or off-
site? 
 
 
 
 
f) 
Create or contribute runoff water which would exceed 
the capacity of existing or planned stormwater drainage systems 
or provide substantial additional sources of polluted runoff? 
 
 
 
 
g) 
Impede or redirect flood flows? 
 
 
 
 
h) 
In flood hazard, tsunami, or seiche zones, risk the 
release of pollutants due to project inundation? 
 
 
 
 
i) 
Conflict with or obstruct implementation of a water 
quality control plan or sustainable groundwater management 
plan? 
 
 
 
 
 
Findings of Fact:   There will be no hydrology or water quality impacts. The Project is a street closure. No physical 
development is proposed as part of this Project. The street closure allows for business along the segments of S. 
B Street between Baldwin Avenue and 3rd Street to allow for City-sponsored events (i.e., street fairs, festivals, 
and other community-centered events) and to expand outdoor seating and service areas for restaurants.   
 
Allowing for street closure to vehicular traffic does not violate or modify compliance requirements with 
applicable water quality standards or waste discharge requirements.  The street closure does not decrease 
groundwater supplies, alter existing drainage patterns, result in substantial erosion, increase amount of 
surface runoff, contribute runoff water which would exceed the capacity of existing or planned stormwater 
drainage systems nor redirect flood flows. Implementation of this street closure will not change the 
requirements for all existing and future businesses to address hydrology and water quality issues. 
 
 
Mitigation:   No mitigation is required.  
 
 
LAND USE/PLANNING  Would the project: 
a) 
Cause a significant environmental impact due to a 
conflict with any land use plan, policy, or regulation adopted for 
the purpose of avoiding or mitigating an environmental effect? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Disrupt or divide the physical arrangement of an 
established community (including a low-income or minority 
community)? 
 
 
 
 
 
Findings of Fact:   There will be no land use impacts. The Project is a street closure. No physical development is 
proposed as part of this Project.  
 
112 of 154

--- page 113 ---
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less 
Than 
Significant 
Impact 
No 
Impact 
 
The street closure allows for business along the segments of S. B Street between Baldwin Avenue and 3rd Street 
to allow for City-sponsored events (i.e., street fairs, festivals, and other community-centered events) and to 
expand outdoor seating and service areas for restaurants.  Allowing for expansion of outdoor areas and use of 
the street for community events does not conflict with land use plans and policies nor disrupt the physical 
arrangement of the community. In fact, the street closure promotes the City’s vision for downtown: “The vision 
for downtown San Mateo is to provide a pedestrian-friendly environment that adds charm to what has 
traditionally served as the center of the community.”1 
 
 
Mitigation:   No mitigation is required.  
 
 
MINERAL RESOURCES  Would the project: 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Mineral Resources 
a) 
Result in the loss of availability of a known mineral 
resource that would be of value to the region or the residents of 
the State? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Result in the loss of availability of a locally-important 
mineral resource recovery site delineated on a local general plan, 
specific plan or other land use plan? 
 
 
 
 
 
Findings of Fact:   There will be no mineral resource impacts.  The street closure allows for business along the 
segments of S. B Street between Baldwin Avenue and 3rd Street to expand outdoor seating and service areas and 
to allow for City-sponsored events.  No physical development is proposed as part of this Project. The street 
closure does not result in the loss of availability of a known mineral resource of local or regional value. 
 
 
Mitigation:   No mitigation is required.  
 
 
NOISE  Would the project result in: 
a) 
Generation of a substantial temporary or permanent 
increase in ambient noise levels in the vicinity of the project in 
excess of standards established in the local general plan or noise 
ordinance, or applicable standards of other agencies? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Generation of excessive groundborne vibration or 
groundborne noise levels? 
 
 
 
 
c) 
For a project located within the vicinity of a private 
airstrip or an airport land use plan or, where such a plan has not 
been adopted, within two miles of a public airport or public use 
airport, would the project expose people residing or working in 
the project area to excessive noise levels? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 San Mateo 2030 General Plan, Land Use Element, page II-19. October 2010 
113 of 154

--- page 114 ---
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less 
Than 
Significant 
Impact 
No 
Impact 
 
Findings of Fact:   There will be no noise impacts. The Project is a street closure. No physical development is 
proposed as part of this Project.  
 
The street closure allows for business along the segments of S. B Street between Baldwin Avenue and 3rd Street 
to expand outdoor seating and service areas and to allow for City-sponsored events. Any business operating 
outdoors, and City-sponsored events held on the closed street segments will be required to comply with the 
City’s Noise Ordinance. The street closure does not result in generation of a substantial temporary or permanent 
increase in ambient noise levels excessive groundborne vibration or groundborne noise. Rather, it is conceivable 
that eliminating vehicular traffic would result in decrease to ambient noise within the vicinity of the closed street 
segments.  
 
Mitigation:   No mitigation is required. 
 
 
POPULATION AND HOUSING Would the project: 
a) 
Induce substantial unplanned population growth in an 
area, either directly (for example, by proposing new homes and 
businesses) or indirectly (for example, through extension of roads 
or other infrastructure)? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Displace substantial numbers of existing people or 
housing, necessitating the construction of replacement housing 
elsewhere? 
 
 
 
 
 
Findings of Fact:   There will be no population or housing impacts. The Project is a street closure. No physical 
development is proposed as part of this Project. The street closure allows for business along the segments of S. 
B Street between Baldwin Avenue and 3rd Street to expand outdoor seating and service areas and to allow for 
City-sponsored events. Approval of this street closure will not result in substantial unplanned population growth 
nor displace substantial numbers of people.  
 
 
Mitigation:   No mitigation is required.  
 
 
PUBLIC SERVICES  Would the project result in substantial adverse physical impacts associated with the provision 
of new or physically altered government facilities or the need for new or physically altered governmental 
facilities, the construction of which could cause significant environmental impacts, in order to maintain 
acceptable service ratios, response times or other performance objectives for any of the following public 
services: 
1) 
Fire Services 
 
 
 
 
2) 
Police Protection 
 
 
 
 
3) 
Schools 
 
 
 
 
4) 
Parks  
 
 
 
 
5) 
Other Public Facilities  
 
 
 
 
 
Findings of Fact:   There will be no public service impacts. The Project is a street closure. No physical development 
is proposed as part of this Project. The street closure allows for business along the segments of S. B Street 
114 of 154

--- page 115 ---
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less 
Than 
Significant 
Impact 
No 
Impact 
 
between Baldwin Avenue and 3rd Street to expand outdoor seating and service areas and to allow for City-
sponsored events. 
 
Public safety and emergency vehicles will maintain full access to the closed street segments via operable 
barricade located at each of the intersections along S. B Street between 1st and 3rd Avenues.  A 12-foot fire lane 
will be maintained clear of impediments in the center of the closed street segments.  
 
Closing segments of S. B Street will not result in substantial adverse physical impacts associated with the 
provision of new or physically altered government facilities or the need for new or physically altered 
governmental facilities, the construction of which could cause significant environmental impacts, in order to 
maintain acceptable service ratios, response times or other performance objectives public services. 
 
Mitigation:   No mitigation is required.  
 
 
RECREATION  Would the project: 
a) 
 Include 
recreational 
facilities 
or 
require 
the 
construction or expansion of recreational facilities which might 
have an adverse physical effect on the environment? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Increase the use of existing neighborhood or regional 
parks or other recreational facilities such that substantial physical 
deterioration of the facility would occur or be accelerated? 
 
 
 
 
 
Findings of Fact:   There will be no recreation impacts. The Project is a street closure. No physical development 
is proposed as part of this Project. The street closure allows for business along the segments of S. B Street 
between Baldwin Avenue and 3rd Street to expand pedestrian access, outdoor seating and service areas, and to 
allow for City-sponsored events. 
 
Approval of this street closure would not result in the need to construct or expand existing recreational 
facilities, nor increase the use of existing neighborhood or regional parks or other recreational facilities such 
that substantial physical deterioration would occur.  
 
 
Mitigation:   No mitigation is required.  
 
 
TRANSPORTATION  Would the project: 
a) 
Conflict with a program, plan, ordinance, or policy 
addressing the circulation system, including transit, roadway, 
bicycle, and pedestrian facilities? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Conflict or be inconsistent with CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15064.3, subdivision (b)? 
 
 
 
 
c) 
Substantially increase hazards due to a geometric 
design feature (e.g., sharp curves or dangerous intersections) or 
incompatible uses (e.g. farm equipment)? 
 
 
 
 
115 of 154

--- page 116 ---
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less 
Than 
Significant 
Impact 
No 
Impact 
 
d) 
Result in inadequate emergency access or access to 
nearby uses? 
 
 
 
 
 
Findings of Fact:   There will be no transportation impacts. The Project is a street closure. No physical 
development is proposed as part of this Project. The street closure allows for business along the segments of S. 
B Street between Baldwin Avenue and 3rd Street to expand outdoor seating and service areas and to allow for 
City-sponsored events. 
 
Approval of this street closure does not conflict with plans or policies addressing circulation systems. In fact, the 
closure promotes goals for a walkable, pedestrian friendly downtown. The Bike Master Plan identifies a Class IV 
cycle track along this segment of S. B Street, the construction of which would not be precluded by the potential 
street closure. The closure will cause drivers to use alternate routes when navigating downtown. Alternative 
routes could conceivably include north/south travel on South Ellsworth, San Mateo Drive, or S. Claremont Street. 
Selection of alternative routes does not result in any increases to length of vehicle trips because the alternate 
routes are parallel to the existing route thereby not requiring to vehicles to travel any farther than they would 
have if they were to use S. B Street. Additionally, access to parking garages in the vicinity would not be impeded 
by the street closure. The street closure would not result in hazardous design features nor inadequate 
emergency access. As described above and shown in Traffic Control Plan (see Attachment A) the Project includes 
maintenance of an emergency vehicle access lane and signage to address public awareness and safety.  
 
 
Mitigation:   No mitigation is required.  
 
 
TRIBAL CULTURAL RESOURCES  Would the project cause a substantial adverse change in the significance of a 
Tribal Cultural Resource, defined in Public Resources Code section 21074 as either a site, feature, place, or 
cultural landscape that is geographically defined in terms of the size and scope of the landscape, sacred place, 
or object with cultural value to a California Native American Tribe, and that is: 
a) 
Listed or eligible for listing in the California Register of 
Historical Resources, or in a local register of historical resources 
as defined in Public Resources Code section 5020.1 (k)? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
A resource determined by the lead agency, in its 
discretion and supported by substantial evidence, to be significant 
pursuant to criteria set forth in subdivision (c) of Public Resources 
Code Section 5024.1? (In applying the criteria set forth in 
subdivision (c) of Public Resources Code Section 5024.1, the lead 
agency shall consider the significance of the resource to a 
California Native American tribe.) 
 
 
 
 
Findings of Fact:   There will be no tribal cultural impacts. The Project is a street closure. No physical development 
is proposed as part of this Project. The street closure allows for business along the segments of B Street between 
Baldwin Avenue and 3rd Street to expand outdoor seating and service areas and to allow for City-sponsored 
events. There are no impacts to historical or tribal cultural resources.   
 
 
Mitigation:   No mitigation is required.  
116 of 154

--- page 117 ---
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less 
Than 
Significant 
Impact 
No 
Impact 
 
 
 
UTILITIES AND SERVICE SYSTEMS  Would the project: 
 
a) 
Require or result in the relocation or construction of 
new or expanded water, wastewater treatment, or storm water 
drainage systems, whereby the construction or relocation would 
cause significant environmental effects? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Have insufficient water supplies available to serve the 
project and reasonably foreseeable future development during 
normal, dry, and multiple dry years? 
 
 
 
 
c) 
Result in a determination by the wastewater treatment 
provider that serves or may service the project that it has 
adequate capacity to serve the project’s projected demand in 
addition to the provider’s existing commitments? 
 
 
 
 
d) 
Generate solid waste in excess of State or Local 
standards, or in excess of the capacity of local infrastructure, or 
otherwise impair the attainment of solid waste reduction goals? 
 
 
 
 
e) 
Be noncompliant with federal, state, and local 
management and reduction statutes and regulations related to 
solid waste? 
 
 
 
 
 
Findings of Fact:   There will be no utility service system impacts. The Project is a street closure. No physical 
development is proposed as part of this Project. The street closure allows for business along the segments of S. 
B Street between Baldwin Avenue and 3rd Street to expand outdoor seating and service areas and to allow for 
City-sponsored events. 
 
The street closure will not: a) result in the relocation or construction of new or expanded water, wastewater 
treatment, or storm water facilities; b) allow for future projects to have insufficient water supply; c) require 
construction of new wastewater treatment facilities, including septic systems, or expansion of existing 
facilities; d) allow for future projects to have insufficient wastewater treatment; nor e) generate solid waste in 
excess beyond existing capacity. Lastly, the street closure does not alleviate or modify compliance 
requirements with federal, state, and local management and reduction statutes and regulations related to 
solid waste. 
 
Mitigation:   No mitigation is required.  
 
 
WILDFIRE  If located in or near state responsibility areas or lands classified as very high fire hazard severity zones, 
would the project: 
 
a) 
Substantially impair an adopted emergency response 
plan or emergency evacuation plan? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Due to slope, prevailing winds, and other factors, 
exacerbate wildfire risks, and thereby expose project occupants 
 
 
 
 
117 of 154

--- page 118 ---
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less 
Than 
Significant 
Impact 
No 
Impact 
 
to, pollutant concentrations from a wildfire or the uncontrolled 
spread of a wildfire? 
c) 
Require the installation or maintenance of associated 
infrastructure (such as roads, fuel breaks, emergency water 
sources, power lines or other utilities) that may exacerbate fire 
risk or that may result in temporary or ongoing impacts to the 
environment? 
 
 
 
 
d) 
Expose people or structures to significant risks, 
including downslope or downstream flooding or landslides, as a 
result of runoff, post-fire slope instability, or drainage changes? 
 
 
 
 
 
Findings of Fact:   There will be no wildfire impacts. There are no wildland fire hazards in the City of San Mateo; 
however, to the west of the City within the City’s Sphere of Influence there are undeveloped portions of the 
western hills that are considered wildland fire hazards.2 
 
The street closure is located in an urban developed portion of downtown San Mateo. The street closure would 
not result in wildfire impacts.  
 
Mitigation:   No mitigation is required. 
 
MANDATORY FINDINGS OF SIGNIFICANCE  Does the Project: 
1. 
Have the potential to substantially degrade the quality of 
the environment, substantially reduce the habitat of a fish 
or wildlife species, cause a fish or wildlife population to 
drop below self- sustaining levels, threaten to eliminate a 
plant or animal community, substantially reduce the 
number or restrict the range of a rare or endangered plant 
or animal, or eliminate important examples of the major 
periods of California history or prehistory? 
 
 
 
 
Findings of Fact:  The Project is a street closure. No physical development is proposed as part of this Project. The 
street closure allows for business along the segments of S. B Street between Baldwin Avenue and 3rd Street to 
expand outdoor seating and service areas and to allow for City-sponsored events. Implementation of the 
proposed project would not substantially degrade the quality of the environment, substantially reduce the 
habitat of fish or wildlife species, cause a fish or wildlife populations to drop below self-sustaining levels, 
threaten to eliminate a plant or animal community, or reduce the number or restrict the range of a rare or 
endangered plant or animal, or eliminate important examples of the major periods of California history or 
prehistory. 
 
2. 
Have impacts which are individually limited, but 
cumulatively considerable?  ("Cumulatively considerable" 
means that the incremental effects of a project are 
considerable when viewed in connection with the effects of 
 
 
 
 
 
2 San Mateo 2030 General Plan, Safety Element. October 2010. 
118 of 154

--- page 119 ---
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less 
Than 
Significant 
Impact 
No 
Impact 
 
past projects, other current projects and probable future 
projects)? 
Findings of Fact:   The street closure project does not have impacts which are individually limited, but 
cumulatively considerable.  
 
3. 
Have environmental effects that will cause substantial 
adverse effects on human beings, either directly or 
indirectly? 
 
 
 
 
 
Findings of Fact:   The proposed street closure would not result in environmental effects which would cause 
substantial adverse effects on human beings, either directly or indirectly. 
 
119 of 154

--- page 120 ---
ATTACHMENT A  
 
 
TRAFFIC CONTROL PLAN 
120 of 154

--- page 121 ---
Type III Barricade
Water-Filled Barricade
Baldwin Parklet
Vertical delineators 
with pedestrian 
barricades
Traffic Control Plan 
Southbound S. B Street between 
Baldwin and 1st
121 of 154

--- page 122 ---
Type III Barricade
Water-Filled Barricade
Traffic Control Plan 
S. B Street between 1st and 2nd
Proposed 12 ft Fire Lane 
SEE ATTACHMENT A FOR 
INGRESS/EGRESS DETAIL
122 of 154

--- page 123 ---
Type III Barricade
Water-Filled Barricade
Traffic Control Plan 
S. B Street between 2nd and 3rd
SEE ATTACHMENT A FOR 
INGRESS/EGRESS DETAIL
Proposed 12 ft Fire Lane 
123 of 154

--- page 124 ---
ATTACHMENT A —INGRESS AND EGRESS DETAIL

Asphalt tape

Waterfilled barriers

Waterfilled Barriers unpinned to
allow for swinging motion for
Emergency Vehicle Access.

124 of 154


--- page 125 ---
r 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
GUIDELINES FOR 
EXPANDED OUTDOOR 
DINING DURING 
COVID-19 EMERGENCY 
As Revised February 1, 2021 
125 of 154

--- page 126 ---
1 
 
  
Table of Contents 
Preface .......................................................................................................................................................... 2 
State of California Requirements .................................................................................................................. 2 
Temporary Outdoor Restaurant Dining Encroachment Permit .................................................................... 2 
General Guidelines for all Outdoor Dining Areas ......................................................................................... 3 
Sidewalk Dining Areas ................................................................................................................................... 4 
On-Street Parking Space Dining Areas (Parklets) .......................................................................................... 5 
Downtown Common Parklets: .................................................................................................................. 5 
Custom Parklets or Other Parklet Areas ................................................................................................... 5 
Private Parking Lot Dining Areas ................................................................................................................... 6 
For More Information: .................................................................................................................................. 7 
 
 
 
126 of 154

--- page 127 ---
2 
 
Preface 
The City of San Mateo has developed these guidelines for outdoor dining to assist our restaurant 
businesses in providing expanded seating capacity in the public right-of-way and on private spaces for 
in-person restaurant dining, as allowed for by the State of California and San Mateo County COVID-19 
Health Orders (Health Orders). These guidelines are temporary in nature and will only be in place during 
this time of restricted restaurant operations or up until September 30, 2021. 
The City of San Mateo will be allowing temporary outdoor dining to occur on sidewalks, in public parking 
spaces, and/or in parking spaces in privately owned shopping centers. Specific guidelines for each of 
these locations are outlined in this guidebook.  
State of California Requirements 
 
The State of California permits Outdoor Dining in all colors of its Tier Framework, except for when a 
Regional Stay at Home Order is in effect. General requirements are listed below.   
• 
Operators are required to follow the State’s Industry Guidance for Restaurants.  
• 
In addition to the cleaning and sanitary measures, tables must be arranged to ensure that no 
customer is sitting within six feet of any other customer at a separate table.  
• 
Outdoor dining parklets must follow the State’s Guidance for Temporary Structures for Outdoor 
Business Operations for allowed enclosures which require that no more than 50% of the 
structure's perimeter has impermeable walls, allowing sufficient, unrestricted outdoor air 
movement resulting in cross-ventilation.  
• 
Facilities that open for outdoor dining must offer curbside pickup, takeaway, and/or delivery 
service alternatives. Lines for pickup or takeaway must be in a separate area from the outdoor 
dining area to prohibit patrons from unnecessarily accessing the outdoor dining area. 
• 
Patrons are required to wear a face covering except when actively eating or drinking at a table. 
• 
Bars that do not serve meals are only allowed to operate outdoor service in the Orange and 
Yellow tiers. 
Temporary Outdoor Restaurant Dining Encroachment Permit 
The City has developed a no-fee streamlined encroachment permit application for temporary outdoor 
dining. The intent of this permit is to be temporary in nature and to be in place only during the Health 
Orders restrict restaurant operations up until September 30, 2021.   
A permit will be required only under the following specific circumstances: 
• 
Any restaurant providing alcohol service to their patrons. 
• 
Restaurants creating dining areas in public on-street parking spaces outside of the City-created 
common dining areas in Downtown San Mateo.  
• 
Restaurants building any sort of custom structure for their outdoor dining area including 
platforms and/or railings. 
A permit is not required for any restaurant: 
• 
Providing sidewalk dining without alcohol service.  
127 of 154

--- page 128 ---
3 
 
• 
Using the common dining areas created by the City in public on-street parking spaces in 
Downtown San Mateo and not building a custom structure and not providing alcohol service.  
The following documents are required in order to process a permit for outdoor seating in the City of 
San Mateo: 
• 
Temporary Outdoor Restaurant Dining Encroachment Permit Application 
• 
Certificate of Liability Insurance and Endorsements  
• 
Site Plan diagram of proposed outdoor dining lay-out 
 
The Temporary Outdoor Restaurant Dining Encroachment Permit application is available on the City’s 
website  (https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3307/Outdoor-Dining). 
General Guidelines for all Outdoor Dining Areas 
The following general guidelines apply to all areas: 
• 
Adequate Clearance for Social Distancing. Any outdoor table and seating must maintain a 
minimum sidewalk clearance and pedestrian through zone of 6-feet from any physical obstruction 
to allow pedestrians to maintain adequate social distancing when passing by patrons seated at a 
table. The physical obstruction includes light poles, parking meters, fire hydrants, news racks, 
trees, or other barriers and entryways or display window of adjacent businesses, unless authorized 
by the adjacent business.  
• 
Seating Area Allowance for Social Distancing. The seating provided shall allow for patrons to 
maintain a minimum 6-foot social distance from the nearest group of other patrons seated in the 
same area. Measured from the back of the chair at one table to the back of the chair at the adjacent 
table while diners are seated.  
• 
Temporary Fixtures. Tables, seating, umbrellas, heating lamps, planters, platforms or flooring to 
achieve ADA compliance, and any approved physical barriers to mark the seating area are the only 
items permitted in the public right-of-way. These items must be designed to be weighted down for 
wind protection and be removable. Please ensure that the weights used do not create tripping 
hazards for pedestrians. 
• 
No Outdoor Food Preparation. Outdoor food preparation is not permitted. No heating, cooking or 
open flames are permitted in the outdoor dining space.  
• 
Alcohol Service. Restaurants and food establishments licensed by the State of California will be 
permitted to sell and allow on-premise consumption of alcoholic beverages. A Temporary Outdoor 
Dining Encroachment Permit is required for outdoor dining with alcohol service in the public right of 
way, which includes on the sidewalk or in parklets. The seating area for restaurants providing alcohol 
service must be physically separated from any adjacent outdoor dining areas of other establishments 
by a barricade or other means of separation. Alcohol service is only allowed under full-service 
conditions and alcoholic beverages consumed in the outdoor dining premises are not allowed to be 
provided in to-go containers. Establishments that serve alcoholic beverages in the outdoor dining 
area shall be required to meet all requirements of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board and any 
other federal, state, or local laws and regulations governing the sale and consumption of alcoholic 
beverages. Visit the ABC website for their specific COVID-19 regulatory updates.   
128 of 154

--- page 129 ---
4 
 
• 
Space Heaters.  Space heaters are permitted if they are an outdoor approved type, are located in 
accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations, and are located at least two (2) feet from 
the edge of any umbrella canvas, any foliage, or any other flammable object or material. 
• 
Site Maintenance.  Outdoor seating areas shall be maintained free of litter, refuse and debris. The 
area shall be scrubbed and mopped to remove any food or drink stains on a daily basis by the 
permittee. Such cleaning shall be in accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management and 
Discharge Control Program, which prohibits any discharge other than storm water into the storm 
water drainage system.  
• 
ADA Compliance.  Outdoor seating areas must comply with all requirements of the Americans 
with Disabilities Act (ADA) and provide sufficient clearance and walkway space to allow safe access 
and egress. 
• 
Tents or Umbrellas. Umbrellas and other decorative material shall be fire-retardant, pressure-
treated or manufactured of fire-resistant material. No portion of an umbrella shall be less than six 
(6) feet, eight (8) inches (eighty (80) inches) above the sidewalk. The use of tents in excess of 400 
square feet will require a Tent & Temporary Membrane Structures Permit from the San Mateo 
Consolidated Fire Department.  To request more information contact them at (650) 522-7900.  
• 
Hours of Operation. The outdoor dining areas shall adhere to the same approved hours of operation 
as the existing restaurant. 
• 
Safety Inspections. The City will be making periodic safety inspections and reserves the right to 
require adjustments or removal of any elements, if deemed unsafe. 
Sidewalk Dining Areas 
Sidewalk dining involves the placement of tables and chairs in the public 
sidewalk area. The City of San Mateo is allowing sidewalk dining to occur 
only where the sidewalk is wide enough to allow for pedestrians to pass by 
the outdoor seating while still maintaining adequate social distancing of at 
least 6 feet and when it complies with all ADA requirements.  
Businesses with adequate spacing to accommodate social distancing can 
temporarily use sidewalks for additional restaurant seating purposes. 
Areas that have adequate width to accommodate sidewalk dining include:  
• 
25th Avenue 
• 
Baldwin Avenue 
• 
4th Avenue  
• 
3rd Avenue (between Ellsworth and El Camino) 
• 
B Street between 4th and 5th Avenue 
Restaurants wishing to provide sidewalk dining in other areas of the City not listed above should contact 
staff for an evaluation of whether the sidewalk width at their location is adequate to comply. 
A Temporary Outdoor Restaurant Dining Encroachment Permit is required for any restaurant that 
provides alcohol service to their sidewalk dining area. All other restaurants wishing to use their sidewalk 
area during this time will not be required to obtain a permit. 
129 of 154

--- page 130 ---
5 
 
On-Street Parking Space Dining Areas (Parklets) 
Parklets are dining areas located in on-street parking spaces in the public 
right-of-way. These dining areas have become commonplace in many 
urban areas. 
Downtown Common Parklets:   
The City of San Mateo will place barricades to designate communal 
parklets in on-street parking space areas in certain locations in the 
Downtown.  
 
The following specific conditions apply to these areas: 
• 
No permit is required for use of these areas for restaurants that are not providing alcohol 
service. 
• 
Restaurants using these areas will need to provide their own furniture for use of by the patrons 
and will be responsible for securing their furniture when not in use. 
• 
Restaurants cannot construct any structure within these spaces without first obtaining a 
Temporary Outdoor Restaurant Dining Encroachment Permit 
• 
Restaurants must ensure that a minimum 3-foot ADA path of travel is maintained throughout 
these common parklet areas for patrons to access tables provided by any restaurant using the 
area. 
• 
Restaurants that are providing alcohol service will be required to get a Temporary Outdoor 
Restaurant Dining Encroachment Permit (at no cost) and meet the following conditions: 
o Businesses serving alcohol must provide evidence of insurance and list the City of San 
Mateo as additional insured.   
o Businesses serving alcohol outdoors can only do so as allowed by the terms of their own 
ABC License. 
o The dining areas of businesses serving alcohol must be clearly seperated from those of 
adjacent restaurants through some sort of barrier within the common space. Suggested 
barriers include additional barricades, planters, or roped off areas. These barriers must 
still allow for ADA access to other portions of the common parklet area. 
Custom Parklets or Other Parklet Areas 
The City of San Mateo can provide barricades to designate parklets in public parking spaces in other 
areas of the City not served by the common parklet areas.  
 
Additionally, the City has developed Custom Parklet Design Guidelines  for restaurants interested in 
constructing a unique custom parklet.  Please review these standards prior to developing a plan for a 
custom parklet.  All custom parklets must be reviewed by the City to ensure they meet safety standards 
prior their construction.  
 
130 of 154

--- page 131 ---
6 
 
A no-fee Temporary Outdoor Restaurant Dining Encroachment Permit will be required to approve 
parklets outside of the common parklet areas or for any custom built parklet. In order to apply for a 
permit, the restaurant will need to provide a site plan showing the proposed layout of the area. This site 
plan can be hand-drawn. The City can provide assistance, as needed, to help determine the optimal 
layout.  
 
The following specific conditions apply to these areas: 
• 
The custom built parklets must conform with the State’s Guidance for Temporary Structures for 
Outdoor Business Operations for allowed enclosures which require that no more than 50% of 
the structure's perimeter has impermeable walls, allowing sufficient, unrestricted outdoor air 
movement resulting in cross-ventilation.  
• 
Restaurants using these areas will need to provide their own furniture for use of by the patrons 
and will be responsible for securing their furniture when not in use. 
• 
Restaurants that are providing alcohol service will be required to meet the following conditions: 
o Restaurants that are providing alcohol service must provide evidence of insurance and 
list the City of San Mateo as additional insured.   
o Restaurants that are providing alcohol service must meet all requirements of the 
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board and any other federal, state, or local laws and 
regulations governing the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages.  
Key considerations for the layout of these parklet areas: 
• 
Use of the on-street parking spaces shall be limited to the striped dimensions of the 
parking stall areas and shall not encroach into the through travel lane. 
• 
Provide for a three-foot width for traffic barricades. 
• 
Parklets at corners cannot extend beyond the space occupied by a standard parked car. 
• 
Do not eliminate or obstruct existing, on-street disabled parking. 
• 
Allow adequate spacing next to remaining parking stalls for opening of vehicle doors. 
• 
Restaurants may expand their space to include areas fronting adjacent storefronts if they get a 
signed letter granting permission from the owner of the adjacent storefront. 
• 
The height of the parklet walls cannot extend more than 3 feet (36 inches) above the base of the 
floor of the parklet.  
• 
Any platforms constructed need to be flush to the sidewalk to allow for ADA access and allow 
for stormwater to flow to the City drains beneath the parklets. 
Private Parking Lot Dining Areas  
Private parking lot areas refer to shopping centers, strip malls, and stand-alone commercial properties 
that have their own designated parking area. The City of San Mateo is temporarily suspending 
requirements restricting the provision of outdoor dining, minimum parking standards as codified in 
Municipal Code 27.64.160 Sections 2, 9(c), 9(f), and planning application conditions of approval related 
to parking and outdoor dining. Suspending these requirements will temporarily allow restaurants to 
131 of 154

--- page 132 ---
7 
 
provide outdoor dining in their respective private parking lots.  Arrangements for outdoor dining must 
be worked out with the property owner for each location. The City would not be a party to discussions 
or arrangements concerning the leasing or use of outdoor space on private property. 
The following specific conditions apply to these areas: 
• 
Restaurants must have the permission of the property owner in order to use the parking space 
areas. 
• 
The parking lots must still comply with all ADA standards, including ADA paths of travel and 
adequate provision of handicapped parking spaces pursuant to California Building Code Section 
11B. 
• 
Restaurants that are providing alcohol service must meet all requirements of the Alcoholic 
Beverage Control Board and any other federal, state, or local laws and regulations governing 
the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages.  
• 
Access to fire hydrants, fire hose connections for sprinkler systems, and entrances and exits of 
all buildings shall not be obstructed at any time by barriers or seating. The twenty (20) feet fire 
lane shall not be obstructed at any time. There shall be a minimum of forty (40) inches in 
distance separating the edge of a table or chair to a fire department connection. 
• 
Consideration should be given to maintaining adequate parking supply on-site to prevent 
spillover parking in adjacent residential areas. 
• 
Driveway entrances and exits shall always remain unobstructed. 
• 
Temporary outdoor lighting in compliance with California Green Building Code Light Pollution 
standards is allowed. Lighting shall be turned off whenever the restaurant is closed and/or the 
outdoor dining area is not in use. 
• 
All items installed to support outdoor dining shall be temporary in nature and removed at such 
the time the City so orders. Upon removal of these items, the site shall be restored to its 
previous condition within 48 hours. 
• 
Restaurant patrons shall have access to the restroom(s) affiliated with the subject restaurant.  
For More Information:   
For Questions or additional information regarding these Outdoor Dining Guidelines or the Temporary 
Outdoor Restaurant Dining Encroachment Permit application, please contact: 
 
Jennifer Chen, Economic Development Manager 
jchen@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522‐7009 
 
132 of 154

--- page 133 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
EMERGENCY ORDINANCE
An Emergency Ordinance Imposing a Moratorium on Enforcement of Minimum Parking Space 
Requirements and Enforcement of Zoning Regulations for Outdoor Businesses
WHEREAS, the Governor of California has issued Executive Order N-25-20, requiring all residents to heed
any orders or guidance of state and local health officials including but not limited to the imposition of 
social distancing measures, to control the spread of COVID-19; and
WHEREAS, the State of California has imposed a tier system that determines which counties can move 
forward with reopening businesses indoors and outdoors when a Regional Stay at Home Order is not in 
place; and 
WHEREAS, under the State tier system, restaurants, gyms and fitness centers, personal care services, 
hair salons, barbershops, places of worship, and shopping malls will have limited indoor operations 
when reopened; and
WHEREAS, the City wishes to remove any impediments to outdoor operations; and
WHEREAS, the City’s minimum parking space requirements are codified in Municipal Code Section
27.64.160; and
WHEREAS, minimum parking space requirements are also sometimes included as planning application
conditions of approval; and
WHEREAS, the City’s zoning regulations are codified in Municipal Code Title 27; and
WHEREAS, some Zoning Code provisions prohibit outdoor operation of businesses; and
WHEREAS, the City Council had previously adopted an emergency ordinance imposing a moratorium on
enforcement of minimum parking space requirements for businesses located in shopping centers on 
August 17, 2020, which would have expired on November 16, 2020; and 
WHEREAS, the City Council had previously adopted an emergency ordinance suspending zoning 
requirements related to outdoor operations of businesses located in shopping centers on September 8, 
2020, which would have expired on December 7, 2020; and 
WHEREAS, City Charter Section 2.16 authorizes the re-enactment of emergency ordinances so long as 
the emergency continues to exist; and
WHEREAS, on November 16, 2020, the City Council adopted an emergency ordinance extending the 
moratorium on minimum parking space requirements and the suspension of zoning requirements for 
businesses in private shopping which will expire on February 14, 2021; and
 
WHEREAS, the COVID-19 pandemic is ongoing and the City Council wishes to continue suspending 
minimum parking space and zoning requirements, so long as all affected activities abide by City 
guidelines; and
133 of 154

--- page 134 ---
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo is a charter city; and
WHEREAS, City Charter section 2.16 provides that any ordinance declared by the City Council to be
necessary as an emergency measure for preserving the public peace, health, safety, or welfare and 
containing the reasons for its urgency, may be introduced and passed at one meeting.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Findings. In accordance with City Charter Section 2.16, this Ordinance is necessary as an 
emergency measure to preserve the public health, safety, and welfare. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, 
the Governor of the State of California has declared an emergency and the County of San Mateo has 
issued a shelter-in-place order that requires social distancing. In order to mitigate the financial impact of 
the COVID-19 pandemic on personal services in the City and to enable social distancing, the City wishes 
to temporarily enable the use of private parking lots for gyms and fitness centers, places of worship, 
personal care services, hair salons, barber shops, places of worship, and shopping malls by imposing a 
moratorium on the enforcement of minimum parking space and zoning requirements for private parking 
facilities so long as the parking lots are utilized in accordance with State and County Health Order 
requirements and City guidelines.
Section 2. Moratorium. For restaurants, gyms and fitness centers, personal care services, hair salons 
and barbershops, places of worship, and shopping malls operated in accordance with State Health Order
requirements and local guidelines, this Ordinance imposes a moratorium on the enforcement of the 
following minimum parking space requirements for a period of 90 days from the adoption of this 
Ordinance:
(a) Minimum parking space requirements codified in San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.64.160; and
(b) Minimum parking space requirements imposed as a planning application condition of approval; and
(c) Enforcement of City Zoning Code requirements that uses be conducted in an enclosed building.
Section 3. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act 
(CEQA) Guidelines, section 15304(e), adoption of this ordinance is categorically exempt from CEQA, 
because it results in a minor, temporary alteration in the use of land which will have no permanent 
effect on the environment.
Section 4. Severability. The City Council of the City of San Mateo hereby declares that should any 
section, paragraph, sentence, phrase, term or word of this Ordinance, hereby adopted, be declared for 
any reason to be invalid, it is the intent of the City Council that it would have adopted all other portions 
of this ordinance irrespective of any such portioned declared invalid.
Section 5. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general 
circulation, posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 
2.15 of the City Charter.
Section 6. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced and adopted on 
February 1, 2021 and will take effect immediately upon passage by a 4/5 vote of the City Council. It will 
expire on the 91st day after its adoption.
134 of 154

--- page 135 ---
From:
Elizabeth Foster
To:
Kathy Kleinbaum
Subject:
B street closure feedback
Date:
Friday, January 8, 2021 1:49:35 PM
I would like to encourage San Mateo to rethink extending the closure. It is most unfriendly to those with special
needs who want to patronize the stores there.
I went to pick up food from a restaurant on B street today and it was most inconvenient not being able to park in
front. I had planned a quick pick up while keeping an eye on my teenager who has a disability and cannot be alone
for long. Instead I had to make her put on a mask and walk a block with me to get the food that we had ordered.
Thanks for considering!
-Liz
135 of 154

--- page 136 ---
From:
Garrett Williams
To:
Kathy Kleinbaum
Subject:
San Mateo B Street for Pedestrians
Date:
Tuesday, January 19, 2021 3:44:22 PM
Hello Kathy,
I saw some signage posted for closure of B street in downtown San Mateo.  I am glad to see
our city moving towards a more pedestrian friendly downtown.  I hope we can close B street
to car traffic in the long term and expand the amount of B street that is reserved as a space for
pedestrians.
Thanks,
Garrett Williams
136 of 154

--- page 137 ---
From:
Prodan Statev
To:
Kathy Kleinbaum
Subject:
Comment on pedestrian-only zone on B Street
Date:
Sunday, January 10, 2021 2:19:27 PM
Hello, 
I strongly support the proposed pedestrian-only zone in downtown. I live and work blocks
away from B street and will enjoy being able to go on walks in the new pedestrian zone. I
would also be more likely to support the businesses around it.
I think we should quickly adopt more permanent pedestrian-only zones around downtown,
taking examples and best practices from other cities in the US and worldwide. I think we
should create more of a boulevard-style downtown.  
I hope you adopt this pedestrian-only zone permanent and without delay. 
PS I also don’t believe you should have to ask the citizens every time you make a change like
this. It slows things down and you’re elected to make choices for us. I know this is a bigger
change.
PSS we need a lot more housing in San Mateo County. we need to remove height restriction
and we need to make apartment blocks and high density housing legal to build. We also need
to dramatically speed up the approval process by removing the ability for locals to oppose new
buildings. 
137 of 154

--- page 138 ---
From:
Yoav Azaria
To:
Kathy Kleinbaum
Subject:
Initial Study Comment
Date:
Tuesday, January 12, 2021 2:13:27 PM
Hi Kathy,
In accordance with the notice I received, I wanted to express my enthusiastic support of
keeping B Street closed for outdoor dining.
That stretch of road has become an almost daily walk for me, and it's among my favorite
things in San Mateo. I am also a driver, and I feel the trade-off is more than worth it. 
If the city's intention were to make the closure permanent, I would be thrilled!
-- 
Thanks,
Yoav
138 of 154

--- page 139 ---
From:
Eric Stern
To:
Kathy Kleinbaum
Subject:
Comments on proposed B St. project
Date:
Tuesday, January 12, 2021 3:17:49 PM
Hello Kathy,
I saw the signs posted downtown asking for feedback about the road closures in favor of outdoor dining
and foot traffic.
I’m writing in to indicate my support for making the closures permanent, or at least extending them. I
really like the increased accessibility of the downtown area when on foot, and haven’t found the closures
particularly bothersome when driving.
One of the things that brought me to San Mateo several years ago was the downtown area, and when I
was recently able to purchase a home here, being within walking distance to downtown was one of my
main criteria for finding a suitable home. As such, seeing downtown become more walking-friendly has
been an incredibly welcome change.
Thanks,
Eric
-- 
Eric Stern
978-387-1439
139 of 154

--- page 140 ---
From:
Martin Wiggins
To:
Kathy Kleinbaum
Subject:
B Street Closure - Initial Study/ Neg Dec Comments
Date:
Tuesday, January 12, 2021 10:24:53 PM
Dear Ms Kleinbaum,
I have reviewed the City’s IS/NegDec for the closure of South B Street in downtown San
Mateo.  I have the following comments:
1. The word “not” appears to be missing on pages 10 of 22 (does NOT decrease
groundwater supplies...) and 13 of 22 (does NOT result in substantial adverse physical
impacts...).  
2. The letter “r” is missing in “control” on page 18.  
3. This NegDec appears sufficient to confirm that there are no environmental impacts
caused by this proposal, and the document appropriately notes how the proposal actually
helps support the City’s vision for downtown.  
4. As a local homeowner and parent who lives within walking/biking distance of
downtown, I think this proposal has unequivocally positive environmental aspects such
as the increased safety for pedestrians especially children, and for cyclists. The current
pilot program has proved out for me it’s positive impact by allowing me to more safely
walk and cycle with my children along South B Street.  I have observed cars moving
more slowly as they notice the barricades and signs, and the effect of traffic calming is
to slow cars and increase the odds they will see pedestrians more quickly and act with
more care.  I also own a car and occasionally drive downtown and the current pilot
closure has not impacted my ability to move through downtown or to find parking.  In
my own experience, I think the closure could be improving air quality - prior to this cars
often were backed up on South B, just idling in traffic rather than moving on.  I suspect
more drivers are utilizing the garages now, knowing they won't be able to continue to
circle the block looking for a spot.  I have not noticed an uptick in cars parking along
our street, suggesting this closure is not pushing cars into surrounding neighborhoods to
find parking.  Without the idling and honking cars, noise has been reduced along B
Street - I have not noticed an increase elsewhere.  I would concur with the document's
statement on Page 9 that the project could lead to more people walking downtown and
therefore reducing GHG's - this has been the case for me personally.
I support this plan!
Thank you,
Martin Wiggins
140 of 154

--- page 141 ---
From:
Tracy Duong
To:
Kathy Kleinbaum
Cc:
Mark Ture
Subject:
Re: Adoption of Resolution for Temporary Street Closure
Date:
Monday, January 18, 2021 7:37:53 PM
Dear Kathy,
My name is Tracy Duong.  I live in San Mateo with my husband Mark, and two kids. 
We love walking around downtown San Mateo.  We are really enjoying the street
closures and decrease in traffic of South B Street area and downtown in general.  We
think that outdoor dining makes the ambiance more lively.  We feel it's safer going
around with our kids in the stroller.  We would like to add our voice in support of
extended or permanent street closures.
Thank you.
- Tracy
141 of 154

--- page 142 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 21-4178
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
February 01, 2021
SUBJECT:
Short-Term Rental Regulations and Fees– Ordinance Introduction and Resolution
RECOMMENDATION:
Introduce an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 5 “Business Licenses and Regulations,” to 
regulate the usage of Short-Term rentals and adopt a Resolution to amend the 2020-21 Comprehensive Fee Schedule 
to add two new fees for Short-Term Rental Registration and Short-Term Rental Registration Appeal.
BACKGROUND:
Cities are experiencing a growth of short-term rentals (STRs) in many residential communities. Although STRs can provide a 
source of income to property owners and optimize utilization of unoccupied spaces, they can also have negative impacts 
on the character of a neighborhood and overall housing supply. Since the emergence of STRs in the City of San Mateo, the 
City has received complaints regarding STRs impacts related to parking, loud parties, and marijuana and tobacco smoke.
On October 19th, 2020, the City Council held a study session to evaluate potential STR regulations. At the study session, 
staff presented the results of a survey of community members and short-term rental operators. Staff presented the most 
common STR regulations adopted by neighboring jurisdictions and then suggested specific policies for Council 
consideration. Staff has prepared an Ordinance (Attachment 1) that includes the following regulations based on the 
feedback staff received from the City Council:

Registration Requirement: STRs must register in order to operate in the City. This is in addition to obtaining a 
valid business license.

Prohibition of Special Events: Weddings, corporate events, commercial functions, large parties, and other 
similar events that have the potential to cause traffic, parking, noise, or other impacts to the neighborhood are 
prohibited on the property during short-term rentals.

Occupancy Limits: STRs operators are not to exceed the lesser of 2 occupants per bedroom or 10 occupants in 
total.

Parking Requirements: STR operators are required to have off-street parking available for their short-term 
renters. Properties with 3 or fewer bedrooms would need to provide 1 parking space. Those with 4+ bedrooms 
would need 2 spaces. If there is no off-street parking available, the property is not eligible for a short-term 
rental permit.

Local Contact Person Requirement: A local contact person is required and will be made available 24 hours per 
day, 7 days per week during the term of any STR stay, respond within 60 minutes to complaints, and must take 
remedial action to resolve such complaints.
142 of 154

--- page 143 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

Annual Limits:
o
Where the host is present, the dwelling unit may be occupied as a short-term rental for an unlimited 
number of days per calendar year.
o
Where a host is not present, the dwelling unit may be occupied as a short-term rental no more than 
one-hundred and twenty (120) nights per calendar year.
o
All accessory dwelling units shall be considered hosted if the owner or tenant is present on the 
property.
Implementation 
The City of San Mateo currently works with a third-party consultant, HdL Companies, to identify short-term rentals in the 
City and collect transient occupancy tax (TOT). The City will expand HdL’s scope of work to include their permitting service. 
This service includes reaching out to STR hosts to inform them about the registration requirement, setting up a STR 
application, and processing applications. The Community Development Department will be responsible for reviewing 
registration applications prior to approval and reviewing compliance with the parking space requirement, occupancy 
limits, and to verify it is a residential property. The City will require STR operators to follow the registration requirements 
listed below.

Initial Application and Registration: Prior to advertising or use of a short-term rental, the host shall register 
the property/unit as a short-term rental with the City of San Mateo and obtain a valid City of San Mateo 
business certificate. All short-term rental hosts must register the short-term rental on or before July 1st on an 
annual basis.

Application Requirements: The registration shall be submitted on a city-approved form. The applicant shall 
provide the name and contact information of the host; the address of the property/unit used as a short- 
term rental; a valid City of San Mateo business certificate; the anticipated frequency of the short-term rental; 
contact information for the local contact person; an acknowledgement of compliance with the requirements 
of the San Mateo Municipal Code; and other information as requested. Failure to submit all information 
required on the application will result in denial of the registration.

Fee: The host shall pay a registration fee in an amount established by resolution of the City Council, and as 
updated from time to time. Failure to submit the required fee will result in denial of the registration. Staff 
recommends setting the fee at $250. A resolution adding the Short-Term Rental permit fee to the City’s 
Comprehensive Fee Schedule is included as Attachment 2.

Annual Renewal: A registration may be renewed annually upon payment of registration renewal fees and all 
required transient occupancy tax remittance associated with the short-term rental. Failure to renew prior to 
the expiration date will result in expiration of the registration.
Since the City receives a low number of STR-related complaints, the City will maintain a database that will list the contact 
information from each registered STR local contact person. This database will be shared with the Police Department and 
Code Enforcement. If complaints increase, the City will reevaluate the need to make a 24/7 complaint hotline available to 
the residents.
Registration Revocation Process
If an STR host violates any provision of the STR ordinance, the Community Development Director may revoke the STR 
registration. Prior to revoking a STR registration, the Community Development Director will notify the host and arrange 
a public hearing to allow the host to present why the registration should not be revoked. If at the conclusion of the 
public hearing the Community Development Director revokes the registration, the STR host has the right to an 
administrative appeal before the Community Relations Commission. After the Community Relations Commission 
hearing, the decision made shall be final.
143 of 154

--- page 144 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
Adopting short term rental regulations will be cost neutral to the City. The third-party consultant, HdL, will charge the City
$20 per application as a processing fee. The remaining registration fee will cover the cost of the staff time and resources 
needed to review the application and enforce the STR regulations.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), the ordinance introduction 
and resolution are not projects subject to CEQA in that introducing an ordinance and the adoption of fees are fiscal 
activities and do not involve commitment to any particular project.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Ordinance 
Att 2 – Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Denise Garcia, Management Analyst I 
dgarcia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7003
144 of 154

--- page 145 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
An Ordinance of the City Council of the City of San Mateo Amending Section 1.04.050, “Enforcement – 
Citation Authority,” of Title 1, “General Provisions, “ and Adding Section 5.66, “Short Term Rentals,” to Title 5, 
“Business Licenses and Regulations, “ of the San Mateo Municipal Code
WHEREAS, short-term rentals of residential properties have increased in popularity; and
WHEREAS, the City wishes to regulate short-term rentals in order to prevent public nuisances and 
preserve a high quality of life;
WHEREAS, the City Council held a noticed public hearing on the proposed ordinance on February 1, 
2021;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. The table in Section 1.04.050 of Title 1 is amended to add Chapter 5.66 to the list of Municipal Code 
Chapters of the San Mateo Municipal Code that may be enforced by the Community Development Director, 
Neighborhood Improvement and Housing Manager, Senior Code Enforcement Officer, and Code Enforcement 
Officer.
Section 2. Chapter 5.66, “Short Term Rentals,” is added to Title 5, “Business Licenses and Regulations,” of the 
San Mateo Municipal Code to read as follows:
Chapter 5.66
Short Term Rentals
5.66.010  Purpose. 
The purpose of this Chapter is to:
(a) Allow limited Short-term Rental uses while preventing the loss of housing stock;
(b) Preserve residential character and establish operating standards to reduce potential noise, parking, 
traffic, property maintenance, and safety impacts on adjacent neighbors; and
(c) Provide a registration process for the City to track and enforce these requirements as needed and 
ensure appropriate collection of transient occupancy taxes.
5.66.020 Definitions
For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
(a) Adjacent Properties. The dwelling units located next to the dwelling unit in which the Short-term 
Rental is located. 
145 of 154

--- page 146 ---
(b) Community Development Director.  The City’s Community Development Director or designee, which 
includes any third party program administrator.
(c) Host. Any person who is the owner of record of residential real property or any person who is a 
lessee of residential real property pursuant to a written agreement for the lease of such real property, who 
offers a dwelling unit, or portion thereof, for Short-term Rental either through a Hosting Platform or individually 
as an operator.
(d) Hosting Platform. A means through which a host may offer a dwelling unit, or portion thereof, for 
short-term rental. A Hosting Platform includes, but is not limited to, an internet-based platform that allows a 
host to advertise and potentially arrange for temporary occupation of the dwelling unit, or portion thereof, 
through a publicly searchable website, whether the Short-term Renter pays rent directly to the host or to the 
Hosting Platform.
(e) Short-term Rental. The use or possession of or the right to use or possess any room or rooms, or 
portions thereof in any dwelling unit for residing, sleeping, or lodging purposes for less than 30 consecutive 
calendar days, counting portions of days as full calendar days.
(f) Short-term renter. A person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy by reason of 
concession, permit, right of access, license, or other agreement for a period of less than 30 consecutive calendar 
days, counting portions of calendar days as full calendar days.
5.66.030 Permitted Use
Short-Term Rental uses shall be permitted in any residence subject to all Municipal Code requirements, 
including compliance with the operating standards, registration, Transient Occupancy Tax payments, payment of 
business license taxes, and recordkeeping obligations. Except as provided for in this section, all other Short-Term 
Rental uses shall be prohibited.
5.66.040 Operating Standards
The following operating standards shall apply to Short-Term Rentals:
(a) Legal Dwelling. Short-Term Rentals may only occur within legal dwelling units.
(b) Annual Limit. A primary residence may be occupied as a Short-Term Rental for no more than 120 
days per calendar year. 
(c) Local Contact Person. Hosts shall identify to all guests and all occupants of adjacent properties a local 
contact person to be available 24 hours per day, seven days per week during the term of any stay. The 
designated local contact person shall:
(1) Respond within 60 minutes to complaints regarding the condition or operation of the 
dwelling unit or the conduct of guests; and
(2) Take remedial action to resolve such complaints.
146 of 154

--- page 147 ---
(d) Parking. Properties with three or fewer bedrooms must provide at least one off-street parking space. 
Properties with four or more bedrooms must provide at least two off-street parking spaces.
(e) Special Event. Weddings, parties, corporate events, commercial functions, and any other similar 
events which have the potential to cause traffic, parking, noise, or other problems in the neighborhood are 
prohibited from occurring at the Short-Term Rental property, as a component of Short-Term Rental activities.
(f) Occupancy is limited to two people per bedroom or ten people per property, whichever is less.
(g) Hosts must notify guests of all City noise, trash, and parking ordinances.
5.66.050 Registration and Annual Renewal
(a) Application. Prior to advertising or making available the primary residence for Short-term Rental, 
Hosts shall register their primary residence as a Short-Term Rental with the City. This registration shall be 
submitted on a form prepared by the City and shall include the name and contact information of the Host, the 
address of the primary residence being used for Short-Term Rental, the contact information for the local contact 
person, an acknowledgement of compliance with the requirements of the City’s Zoning Ordinance, Municipal 
Codes, including the requirement to obtain a business license, applicable health and safety standards, and other 
information as requested.
(b) Fee. The registration form shall be accompanied by a filing fee in an amount established by 
resolution of the City Council and updated from time to time.
(c) Application Completeness. The submitted information shall be used to determine whether to register 
the Short-Term Rental. The Host will be notified if an application is incomplete. If the Host fails to timely submit 
the required information or fees necessary to complete the application, the application shall expire and be 
deemed withdrawn.
(d) Decision. The Community Development Director shall review Short-term Rental registration 
applications. After an application is deemed complete, registration shall be approved where:
(1) The host demonstrates the ability to meet the requirements of this Chapter,
(2) The subject primary residence is not currently the subject of an unresolved code 
enforcement case involving health and safety issues in the past twelve months, and
(3) A Short-term Rental registration for the primary residence has not been denied or revoked in 
the prior twelve-month period. 
5.66.60 Validity
An approved registration shall be valid on a fiscal year basis and annual renewal shall be required 
beginning on or before July 1. An approved registration shall be personal to the Host and shall automatically 
expire upon sale or transfer of the dwelling unit. No registration may be assigned, transferred, or loaned to any 
other person.
147 of 154

--- page 148 ---
5.66.070 Annual Renewal
A registration may be renewed annually upon payment of registration renewal fees no later than July 1 
annually and all required transient occupancy tax remittance associated with the Short-term Rental. The Host 
shall submit such information concerning the Short-Term Rental activity as may be required to enable the Tax 
Collector to verify the amount of tax paid. Failure to renew prior to the expiration date will result in expiration of 
the registration.
5.66.080 Requirements Not Exclusive
The issuance of a Short-Term Rental registration shall not relieve any person of the obligation to comply 
with all other provisions of this Code applicable to the use and occupancy of the property.
5.66.090 Administrative Policy
The City Manager or his/her designee shall have the authority to develop administrative policies to 
implement the intent of this Chapter.
5.66.100 Transient Occupancy Tax Collection
Transient occupancy taxes (TOT) must be collected for Short-Term Rentals and paid to the City pursuant 
to Municipal Code. Collection of transient occupancy taxes for Short-Term Rentals shall be the responsibility of 
the Host, except that the Hosting Platform shall collect TOT when it has entered into a voluntary collection 
agreement (or equivalent) with the City.
5.66.110 Business License
Hosts must obtain a City business license in accordance with Title 5 of the Municipal Code. 
5.66.120 Enforcement
(a) Revocation of Registration. A Short-term Rental registration may be revoked by the Community 
Development Director after notice and hearing, for any of the following reasons:
(1) Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements contained in the application;
(2) Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made in the course of carrying on a Short-term 
Rental;
(3) Any violation of any provision of the Municipal Code, including this Chapter; or
(4) Any violation of any provision of federal, state, or local laws.
(b) Revocation Hearing. Before revoking a Short-term Rental registration, the Community Development 
Director shall give the responsible Host notice in writing of the proposed revocation and of the grounds 
thereunder, and also of the time and place at which the Host will be given a reasonable opportunity to show 
148 of 154

--- page 149 ---
cause why the registration should not be revoked. The notice may be served personally upon the Host or may be 
mailed to the host at the last known address or at any address shown upon the application at least ten days 
prior to the date of the hearing. Upon conclusion of the hearing, the Community Development Director may, for 
the grounds set forth herein, revoke the registration.
(c) Appeal from Denial or Revocation of Registration. Any Host whose application has been denied or 
registration has been revoked shall have the right to an administrative appeal before Community Relations 
Commission. An appeal shall be filed within ten days of the decision in writing on a form provided by the City to 
the City Clerk stating the grounds for the appeal and accompanied by payment of the appeal fee. The 
Community Relations Commission shall hold a hearing thereon within a reasonable time and the decision shall 
be final.
(d) Waiting Period. Any Host whose registration has been denied or revoked shall be ineligible from 
applying for a new registration for a 24-month period.
5.66.130 Records of Compliance
The Host shall retain records documenting the compliance with these requirements for a period of three 
years after each period of Short-Term Rental, including but not limited to records showing payment of transient 
occupancy taxes. Upon reasonable notice, the Host shall provide any such documentation to City upon request 
for the purpose of inspection or audit to the City Manager or his/her designee.
5.66.140 Violations
The City will utilize any and all enforcement options as provided for Title 1 for failure to comply with the 
provisions of this Section.
Section 3. Environmental Determination. In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21065 and 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, section 15061(b)(3) , adoption of the ordinance is not a 
project subject to CEQA as it will not result in a direct or reasonably foreseeable indirect physical change in the 
environment, because the short-term rental use will have no environmental impacts other than impacts 
associated with residential uses.
Section 4. Severability. In the event any section, clause, or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause, or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 5. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 6. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
149 of 154

--- page 150 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2021)
APPROVING ADDITIONAL FEE REVISIONS TO THE COMPREHENSIVE FEE SCHEDULE FOR 2020-2021 TO ADD 
SHORT-TERM RENTAL REGISTRATION FEES AND SHORT-TERM RENTAL REGISTRATION APPEAL FEES
WHEREAS, the Council adopted the Master Fee Schedule for Fiscal Year 2020-2021 on March 2, 2020; 
and
WHEREAS, the City is in the process of implementing a short-term rental program to administer and 
regulate the usage of short-term rentals. The City needs to add registration and appeal fees to cost recover from 
the program to the City’s Master Fee Schedule; and
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS and 
RESOLVES that:
1.
In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), this 
is not a project subject to CEQA in that the adoption of fees is a fiscal activity and does not involve 
commitment to any particular project.
2.
The proposed Short-Term Rental Registration fees and Short-Term Rental Registration Appeal Fees 
do not exceed City costs of administering and regulating the usage of short-term rentals.
3.
The fee revisions for Fiscal Year 2020-2021, set forth in Exhibit A and Exhibit B to this Resolution, 
related to Short-Term Rentals, are approved.
4.
The fee revisions for Fiscal Year 2020-2021 shall become effective upon adoption of this Resolution.
5.
The Master Comprehensive Fee Schedule for 2020-2021 previously adopted on March 2, 2020, shall 
be updated to reflect the above-approved fee revisions.
150 of 154

--- page 151 ---
Exhibit A
NEW USER FEES
   
DEPARTMENT: 
Community Development Department
A
REFERENCE
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
PAGE 
#
ITEM 
#
UNIT
FEE
Short Term Rental Registration Fee
4.2
XII
Per 
permit
$250.00
JUSTIFICATION:
The Short-Term Rental Registration fee is intended to cost recover for review and issuance 
of a registration permit by staff for the purpose of the regulating short-term rental operations.
2020-2021
(include CPI 
adjustment)
(INCLUDE this revenue in your projections for 2020-2021.)
General Fund:
$12,000
Special Fund:
$
151 of 154

--- page 152 ---
Exhibit B
NEW USER FEES
   
DEPARTMENT: 
Community Development Department
A
REFERENCE
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
PAGE 
#
ITEM 
#
UNIT
FEE
Short Term Rental Registration Appeal Fee
4.2
XIII
Per 
permit 
appeal
$250.00
JUSTIFICATION:
The Short-Term Rental Registration Appeal fee is intended to cost recover for an 
administrative appeal conducted by staff for any Short-Term Rental host whose application 
has been denied or registration has been revoked.
2020-2021
(include CPI adjustment)
(INCLUDE this revenue in your projections for 2020-2021.)
General Fund:
$1,250
Special Fund:
$
152 of 154

--- page 153 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 21-4256
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
February 01, 2021 
SUBJECT:
COVID-19 Update 
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive update on operational impacts and other City efforts related to COVID-19 and confirm rules and regulations issued 
by the City Manager acting as the Director of Emergency Services in response to declared emergency.
BACKGROUND:
On March 4, 2020, the Governor proclaimed a state of emergency in response to the outbreak of respiratory illness due to 
a novel coronavirus now referred to as COVID-19. As a consequence of this proclamation the City Manager, acting as the 
City’s Director of Emergency Services, was authorized to make and issue rules and regulations on matters reasonably 
related to the protection of life and property as affected by such emergency. 
On March 16, 2020, the County of San Mateo Health Officer issued an order to "shelter in place", effective March 17, 2020 
at 12:01 am. This order was extended and amended several times between March 17th and June 17th, when the County 
Health Officer lifted the local shelter-in-place order to align San Mateo County with the State of California’s shelter-in-
place order. At that time, businesses allowed to operate and activities allowed to occur became subject to the State’s 
orders, with some additional local guidance provided by the County’s Health Officer. 
The City Council also declared a local health emergency on March 16th. In addition to positioning the City for potential 
mutual aid and cost recovery opportunities, the emergency proclamation also provides the City Manager broader 
authority to be able to expeditiously address issues related to the emergency. With that said, actions taken by the City 
Manager outside of the general authority of the duties provided for in the City Charter are subject to confirmation by 
Council as soon as practicable. 
On August 28th, the State announced revised criteria for loosening and tightening restrictions on businesses and activities 
under its new framework for reducing COVID-19 called “Blueprint for a Safer Economy.” This new framework went into 
effect on August 31st, and San Mateo County was initially in the purple tier (widespread COVID-19 transmission). On 
September 22nd, the County was moved into the red tier (substantial COVID-19 transmission), and on October 27th, the 
County was moved into the orange tier (moderate COVID-19 transmission). With positive case counts beginning to rise 
again after being on the decline, however, the County was moved back to the orange tier on November 16th and then 
back to the most restrictive purple tier on November 29th.  Between December 18th and January 25th, the County was 
subject to a Regional Stay Home Order due to limited Intensive Care Unit capacity.  On January 25th, the State lifted this 
order, and the County returned to the “Blueprint for a Safer Economy” framework and is currently in the most restrictive 
(purple) tier. 
153 of 154

--- page 154 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for receiving this informational report. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Drew Corbett, City Manager
dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7002
154 of 154