Transparency Portal
Visit Flock
Mill Valley CA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Tue May 05 2026

OVERVIEW

The Mill Valley Police Department employs Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence while maintaining individual privacy. The Department uses retroactive searches to aid in solving crimes after they occur and leverages real-time alerts for hotlisted vehicles to help apprehend wanted individuals. To promote transparency and accountability, the Department has made its policies and usage statistics publicly available.

POLICIES

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Mill Valley CA PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid search reason per Mill Valley Police Department ALPR Policy 462.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
USAGE

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Live Feed Data retention (in days)

3 days

LPR Cameras

Number of LPR cameras only.

6

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

6

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Mill Valley CA PD data.

Belvedere CA PD
Central Marin CA PD
Marin County CA DA
Marin County CA SO
Palo Alto CA PD
Sausalito CA PD

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

California SVS, NCMEC Amber Alert

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

168,140

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

259

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

10
ADDITIONAL INFO

MVPD ALPR Policy:

https://www.cityofmillvalley.gov/DocumentCenter/View/11509/MVPD-ALPR-Policy-462

MVPD Flock Safety ALPR and Camera Use Information and Public FAQ

https://cityofmillvalley.gov/DocumentCenter/View/11507/FLOCK-for-City-Council-RN3

Provided by Flock Safety