source: packet.pdf
sha256: cd8fc9e1427c534cfc816bcf470df48388105c1dc03796722396b628254687f1
pages: 602
ocr_pages: 23
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission 
December 8, 2020
7:00 PM
Remote
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Ellen Mallory, Chair
Ramiro Maldonado, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Mike Etheridge
Margaret Williams
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN‐PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: December 8, 2020
To join via telephone: (408) 638‐0968
Conference ID: 860 5042 5684 Passcode: 802408
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge Allegiance
Roll Call 
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes ‐ Approval
Approve the minutes of the Planning Commission Regular meetings of October 27, 2020 and November 10,
2020.
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's jurisdiction
that are not on the agenda.  Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of 15 minutes for
the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's jurisdiction. The Commission
shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the agenda, but shall refer such
matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 of the San Mateo
Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those issues raised at the public
hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing. Some public hearings will be
automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
2.
Peninsula Heights Multi‐Family Residential Project ‐ Project Approvals (PA‐2020‐012)
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Special Use Permit, Site Plan and Architectural Review, Site Development

--- page 2 ---
Planning Application, Vesting Tentative Map for property located at 2655, 2755, 2800, and 2988 Campus Drive
for 290 multifamily residential units and adopt the Mitigated Negative Declaration to assess the
environmental impacts of the project based on the Findings for Approval and subject to the Conditions of
Approval.
STUDY SESSION
3.
44 E. 3rd Ave. Draper University Pre‐Application (PA‐2018‐054)
Review the proposed project on a preliminary basis, receive public comments, and provide input to the
applicant and staff pertaining to several project elements:
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items
ADJOURNMENT
­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting
and can be viewed on the City’s website at www.cityofsanmateo.org.
Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: there are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel‐San‐Mateo‐Live‐Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you will be added to the meeting. All attendees are
muted by default. To speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638‐ 0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of meeting agenda.
To indicate you want to provide public comment, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations
to participate in this meeting may contact the Planning Division at planning@cityofsanmateo.org or (650) 522‐7212 .
Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements
to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3978
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
December 08, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Planning Commission Regular meetings of October 27, 2020 and November 10, 2020.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Planning Commission Regular Meeting 10/27/20
Att 2 - Planning Commission Regular Meeting 11/10/20
STAFF CONTACT
Erin Fellers, Assistant to the City Clerk
efellers@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7066

--- page 4 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 10/27/2020
Page 1
COMISSION MEMBERS
Ellen Mallory, Chair
Ramiro Maldonado, Vice Chair
Mike Etheridge
John Ebneter
Margaret Williams
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
Planning Commission
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Monday October 27, 2020
Remote 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s Executive Order N-29-20; 
in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the Coronavirus Covid-19 health 
emergency. 
CALL TO ORDER
 
Roll Call
Remote: Ellen Mallory, Ramiro Maldonado, John Ebneter, Margaret Williams
Absent: Mike Etheridge
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Planning Commission - Meeting Minutes Approval 
Vice Chair Maldonado noted a typographical error. Motion to Approve the minutes of the Planning Commission 
meeting of September 10, 2020, as amended. Motion passed 4-0.
Moved: Maldonado, Seconded: Williams
Ayes:
Mallory, Maldonado, Williams, Ebneter
Noes:
None
PUBLIC COMMENT
There were no speakers. 
STUDY SESSION
2.
Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Projects - One-Year Release from Condition of Approval
Principal Transportation Planner Sue-Ellen Atkinson provided a presentation reviewing the background and details of 
the request of release for conditions of approval requiring Rail Corridor projects to collect driveway count data for 
annual Transportation Demand Management Plan monitoring. Accounting for changes in traffic patterns due to 
COVID-19 travel conditions, the City is not conducting standard traffic data collection. Transportation Management 
Association (TMA) would instead submit a qualitative report. 
Commissioners asked questions of staff. The Commission Chair opened Public Comment. There were no speakers.
Motion to approve a one-year release of the Condition of Approval requiring Rail Corridor projects to collect driveway 
count data for annual Transportation Demand Management Plan monitoring. Motion passed 4-0.

--- page 5 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 10/27/2020
Page 2
Moved: Maldonado, Seconded: Ebneter
Ayes:     Mallory, Maldonado, Williams, Ebneter
Noes:     None
3.
1, 2, 3 Waters Park Drive (PA-2020-043) – Modification to PA-2018-013
Due to a financial relationship between his employer and the applicant, Pulte Homes, Commissioner Ebneter recused 
himself at 7:21 pm. Commission Chair Mallory clarified that this is a Public Hearing item.
Associate Planner Wendy Lao provided a presentation summarizing the project’s background, project description, 
and the modifications outlined in the planning application. Modifications to exterior materials, massing and height, 
windows, and awnings were made to meet code requirements. In addition, the relocation of the trash enclosure 
resulted in the removal of a townhome and addition of two units designed as a single-family unit. These 
modifications resulted in a minor increase to the flooring ratio. 
Contract Planning Manager Aaron Aknin clarified that the Planning Commission’s requested action would be to 
address the design changes. Aknin informed the Commission that emails received from the public expressed 
grievances toward Pulte Homes in regard to the demolition site and current construction. Main points expressed 
included intrusive amounts of dust, strong vibrations from construction equipment, overall construction noise, and 
rodents. Aknin asked the Commission to focus on design related issues and modifications. Aknin affirmed that staff 
would follow up and clarified that the Commission cannot add new conditions of approval. 
The Commission asked questions of staff.
Nital Mehta, Senior Project Manager for Product Development - Pulte Homes, provided a presentation expanding on 
the modifications to the current site plan in detail; Notably, changes to the floor plan to accommodate additional exit 
stairs and van parking. 
Commission Chair Mallory opened the Public Hearing.
Laurianna Ceja Diaz described quality-of-life impacts to her children and property due to excessive noise, pollution 
and vibrations from the construction site. Vincent Fobbs stated large equipment within close proximity to the fence 
line is causing damage to property and mental distress to neighbors and requested that the Commission deny 
approval of further modifications until issues are mitigated. Sue Lombardi noted difficulties living with incessant 
noise and impacts to pets and children doing distance learning. Scott Lombardi asked the Commission to hold Pulte 
accountable for impacts. Mary and Renee Jones requested that the Commission deny further plans until mitigation 
efforts have been made to address the vibrations, damage to surrounding homes, noise, and pollution. Vince 
Garibaldi suggested that smaller equipment be used near the existing homes. 
Commission Chair Mallory closed the Public Hearing. The Commission asked questions of staff and the applicant. 
The Commission put forward a recommendation that staff work with the developer, contractor and neighbors to 
mitigate the problems immediately.
Motion to approve the modifications to PA-2018-013 for 1, 2, 3 Waters Park Drive approving the Site Plan and 
Architectural Review Modification for a revised building design and site plan. Motion passed 3-0.
Moved:
Maldonado, Seconded: Williams
Ayes:
Mallory, Maldonado, Williams 
Noes:
None
4.
Brown Act Refresher

--- page 6 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 10/27/2020
Page 3
Postponed to a future meeting. 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Planning Manager Aaron Aknin briefed the Commission of future agenda items and planning-related business going 
to Council. Aknin announced the hiring of a permanent Planning Manager to start in November and announced his 
upcoming departure.
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 8:50 pm.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                      
                                                           
Ellen Mallory, Commission Chair                                            Erin Fellers, Planning Secretary

--- page 7 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 11/10/20
1
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Ellen Mallory, Chair
Ramiro Maldonado, Vice Chair
Mike Etheridge
John Ebneter
Margaret Williams
City of San Mateo
Regular Meeting Minutes
Planning Commission
Tuesday, November 10, 2020
Remote 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency.
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
Remote:   Ellen Mallory, Ramiro Maldonado, Mike Etheridge, John Ebneter, Margaret Williams
PUBLIC COMMENT
There were no speakers.
PUBLIC HEARING 
1.
SPAR Modification - 400 E. 5th Avenue Parking Garage (PA-2020-055)
Associate Planner Phillip Brennan provided a presentation reviewing the proposed Site Plan and Architectural 
Review (SPAR) Modification application which revised some of the design aspects of the parking garage 
associated with the City-owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites project (PA-2019-033) 
approved by the City Council in August. These changes include:  universal stall size; moment frame structural 
design, continuous plane wall; sight triangle; ADA distribution; interior related exit passageway; exterior back 
flow preventers; solar carports and reduced floor area ratio.
The modifications only include the parking garage and do not propose any changes to the multi-family building 
located on the adjacent lot.
The design review was formally reviewed by Larry Cannon, of Cannon Design Group.  Mr. Cannon noted the 
overall changes do not significantly change the appearance of the garage.  He did note a concern that the fin-to-
column relationship in the previous design provided a more uniform pattern. Staff revised the design to 
maintain the overall aesthetic of the approved design; and noted that a less uniform design was an acceptable 
trade-off for improved garage functionality.
Hexagon Traffic Consultants concluded that the proposed modifications would not adversely affect Vehicle Miles 
Traveled (VMT) or Level of Service (LOS) nor would the removal of three (3) public parking stalls.
Commissioners asked questions of staff and Commission Chair Mallory opened the Public Hearing.

--- page 8 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 11/10/20
2
Public Comment - 
Rowen Paul stated his son was hit by a car on 5th and Claremont and he is concerned about traffic safety 
impacts from this garage and encouraged traffic safety strategies be included with the design. Laurie Watinuki 
stated concern with the reduction of 15% of stalls.  and with the circulation in and out of the garage.
The commission asked additional questions of staff; discussion and deliberation ensued with the consensus 
being agreement with staff’s proposed recommendation.
.
Motion to approve and send the SPAR modifications including incorporation of a Universal Stall design, moving 
the driveway location, changes to the circulation layout, new structural framing design, building length and floor 
area reduction and related exterior changes to the 400 E. 5th Avenue parking garage approved as part of the 
City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and parking Garage Sites project (PA-2019-033), and the amended 
Conditions of Approval and Density Bonus Request Letter to the City Council for approval. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Ebneter, Seconded:  Ethridge
Ayes:
Mallory, Maldonado, Ebneter, Etheridge, Williams
Noes:
None
2.
Brown Act Overview – California’s Open Meeting Law (and brief discussion of the Public Records Act)
Assistant City Attorney Gabrielle Whelan provided a presentation and overview of the Ralph M. Brown Act 
requirements for meetings. Commissioners asked questions of staff. Public Comment – There were no speakers. 
Commissioners expressed appreciation for the review. 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Contract Planning Manager Aron Aknin announced the two remaining meetings for this year are November 24 
and December 8.  Mr. Sailesh Mehra, the new Planning Manager will be attending the next meeting and Mr. 
Aknin will remain for the next meeting. He noted the Water’s Park decision from the last Planning Commission 
was appealed and it will be going to the City Council sometime in January 2021.
Commissioner Ebneter announced that there will be a neighborhood meeting on Draper University on Thursday, 
November 12 at 7:00 p.m. and details are listed in the What’s Happening in Development Page on the City’s 
website.  
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 8:03 p.m.
APPROVED BY:
___________________________________
Ellen Mallory
Chair
SUBMITTED BY:
___________________________________
Nora Priego-Ramos

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 20-3885
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Sailesh Mehra, Planning Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
December 08, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Peninsula Heights Multi-Family Residential Project - Project Approvals (PA-2020-012)
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Special Use Permit, Site Plan and Architectural Review, Site Development Planning 
Application, Vesting Tentative Map for property located at 2655, 2755, 2800, and 2988 Campus Drive for 290 multifamily 
residential units and adopt the Mitigated Negative Declaration to assess the environmental impacts of the project based 
on the Findings for Approval and subject to the Conditions of Approval.
BACKGROUND:
The applicant, Harvest Properties, submitted a formal Planning Application on February 7, 2020 to redevelop a portion of 
an existing office campus area for a new multifamily residential development called “Peninsula Heights” consisting of 290 
for-sale residential units, associated parking facilities, open spaces, and other common area amenities.
The Planning Commission first reviewed this project at a Study Session at its regular meeting on October 22, 2019. The 
items discussed at the Study Session were the project site’s suitability for residential uses, the proposed site plan, and 
building designs. Since the Study Session, the applicant incorporated a number of revisions to the project in response to 
comments made the Planning Commission, the public, and City staff in the formal planning application Those revisions 
include increased public park open space, a refined building design, and increased unit variety. 
Site Description
The project site consists of four parcels within an existing office park along Campus Drive. This project groups the four 
parcels into two parcels (Northern Site and Southern Site) with a combined site area of approximately 15.45
acres. The Northern Site has an approximate site area of 7.04 acres and is adjacent to existing single-family dwellings in
the Verona Ridge neighborhood to the north along Live Oak Drive. The Southern Site has an approximate site area of
8.41 acres and is adjacent to existing single-family dwellings in the Beresford neighborhood to the east. 
State Route 92 is located west of the project site, and the Laurelwood Shopping Center as well as the Oak View 
Apartments are located south of the project site. Given their natural physical features, each parcel consists of upper and 
lower terrace each with driveway access along Campus Drive. The existing emergency vehicle access lane along the 
southern edge of the Southern Parcel connecting Campus Drive and 26th Avenue would remain inaccessible to the public 
and for emergency use only. A location map showing the project site’s vicinity is included in Attachment 2.
Project Description
Peninsula Heights consists of 290 residential units with a unit mix of detached three to four-story single-family residences, 
townhomes, and stacked flats. The Northern Site consists of 134 units and a combined floor area of approximately 310,000 
square-feet. The Southern Site consists of 156 units and a combined floor area of approximately 368,000 square-feet. The

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
proposed architectural style is best characterized as contemporary in its use of stucco, lap siding, and other materials to 
express various building volumes. The habitable square-footage ranges from approximately 1,300 to 2,400 square-feet and 
range from two to four bedrooms. Each unit is equipped with an attached two-car garage in either a tandem or side-by-
side configuration. On-site visitor parking is also provided throughout both sites. The project includes a number of public 
infrastructure improvements including a reduction from four travel lanes to two travel lanes along Campus Drive to 
accommodate a Class II bicycle lane as well as widened sidewalks.
The project consists of publicly accessible, privately owned open space across both sites. The Northern and Southern Site 
contain approximately 3 and 3.5 acres of open space respectively, which include a series of parks, walking paths, and 
overlook-areas. A total of 412 trees exist between both sites, of which 85 would be preserved. The project would be 
constructed in two main phases with the Southern Site occurring first followed by the Northern Site.
Volumes 1 and 2 of the project plans, which show all proposed improvements and project data, are included in 
Attachment 3 and Attachment 4 respectively.
Applicable Code and Policy Review
General Plan and Zoning Code
The General Plan Land Use Plan designates the project site Executive Office. It should be noted that Appendix B of the 
General Plan allows residential uses ranging from low to high densities in all non-residential land uses except service 
commercial, manufacturing/industrial and parks/open space, and where otherwise excluded by specific area policies. A list 
of applicable General Plan policies and a discussion of the project’s conformance to them are included in the Resolution in 
Attachment 1.
The project site is zoned E1-1 (Executive Park), which outlines development standards pertaining to floor area ratio (FAR), 
setbacks, and open space. The E1 zoning district permits residential units on parcels without a residential overlay subject 
to the approval of a Special Use Permit (SUP) and subject to the development standards pertaining to density in the R3 
zoning district.
The project confirms to all applicable development standards such as maximum density, building height, and lot coverage. 
The Northern Site and Southern Site contain densities of 19.03 units per acre and 18.55 units per acre respectively where 
34.84 units per acre is the maximum for each site. The maximum building height proposed is 43-feet, which is in 
conformance with the height limit of 55-feet. The Northern Site and Southern Site contain 43% and 41% at-grade open 
space respectively where a minimum of 35% at-grade open space is required at each site. The applicant has requested 
waivers to certain development standards in accordance with State Density Bonus Law (Government Code Section 65915), 
which is described in greater detail below. A Factual Data Sheet listing the applicable Zoning Code standards and the 
project’s conformance to them are included in Attachment 5.
State Density Bonus Law
The project utilizes the provisions of State Density Bonus and Other Incentives (Government Code Section 65915). To 
comply with State Density Bonus Law and to implement the General Plan Housing Element, the City may provide increased 
residential density, reduced parking standards, as well as “incentives or concessions” and “waivers or reductions from 
development standards” for residential projects that provide senior housing units, child care facilities, or set aside a 
portion of units to be affordable to very-low, lower, or moderate-income households.
The applicant proposes to devote 10% of the total 290 residential units to the lower-income category, which affords the 
applicant a 20% density bonus and one incentive or concession. Because the project is within the maximum density 
permitted by the Zoning Code, the project does not propose a density bonus on top of the Zoning Code’s base density. 
State Density Bonus Law nonetheless allows the applicant to request waivers or reductions from development standards 
that would physically preclude construction of the development. 
The applicant has requested waivers from Municipal Code requirements related to minimum lot sizes, grading, floor area 
ratio, and setbacks. State Density Bonus Law also provides reduced parking ratios and standards. The applicant has applied

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the City’s parking ratios, which exceed the State’s reduced parking ratios, and has utilized tandem parking spaces in 
accordance with State Density Bonus Law.
The applicant’s Density Bonus request letter is included as Attachment 6.
Senate Bill (SB) 330 Preliminary Application
The applicant has submitted a Preliminary Application under SB330 in accordance with Government Code Section 65589.5 
on February 7, 2020. As a project consisting of only multifamily residential uses, the project is eligible for a Preliminary 
Application under SB330 which prohibits the City from imposing ordinances, policies, and standards adopted after the 
Preliminary Application was submitted unless certain circumstances exist, including lessening impacts of the project under 
the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), or if the applicant revises the project such that the number of units or 
square-footage changes by 20% or more.
Housing Accountability Act
Government Code Section 65589.5 outlines application review limitations for projects subject to the Housing
Accountability Act (HAA). As a development project that is at least 2/3 housing, the project is subject to the HAA, which is
intended to limit a local agency’s ability to deny, reduce the density of, or render housing development projects infeasible
if objective standards are met. As proposed, this project meets all applicable objective standards in the General Plan,
Zoning Code, and other local policy documents. The HAA outlines that if a housing development project, whether 
affordable or market-rate, is consistent with the City’s objective development standards, the local agency may deny or 
reduce the density only if certain findings pertaining to adverse impacts to codified, objective public health or safety 
standards are made.
Pedestrian Master Plan and Bicycle Master Plan
The project proposes to implement sidewalk designs along its project frontages that would conform to the Citywide 
Pedestrian Master Plan, which contains sidewalk design guidelines to improve the pedestrian network citywide. The 
applicant proposes to implement the Guideline A.5 “Residential Type C New Development” standard along Campus Drive 
with the following sidewalk components:

6’-0” Sidewalk through-zone

6’-0” Landscape strip

0’-6” Curb

15’-0” Building setback
The City’s Bicycle Master Plan provides policies and recommendations to implement citywide infrastructure improvements 
to support bicycle and micromobility use. As mentioned previously, the applicant has submitted a Preliminary Application 
under SB330, which prohibits the City from imposing ordinances, policies, and standards adopted after the Preliminary 
Application was submitted. The 2020 Bicycle Master Plan was adopted by the City Council in April of 2020 after the 
project’s Preliminary Application was submitted; however, the applicant voluntarily proposes to construct the 
recommended bicycle lane improvements of the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan. 
As recommended in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan, the project converts the existing Class III bicycle route to a dedicated 
Class II bicycle lane. The new bicycle lane is accompanied by other public infrastructure improvements including a 
reduction from four travel lanes to two travel lanes along Campus Drive. This new bicycle lane is proposed along both 
directions of Campus Drive from the Laurelwood Shopping Center to the eastern end of the Southern Site. As a Class II 
bicycle lane, the lane provides a restricted six-foot width designated for use by bicyclists. Lastly, the project also provides 
short-term and long-term bicycle parking facilities on-site in excess of the required ratios outlined in the City’s Municipal 
Code.
Discussion Items
Design Review
As previously noted, the Planning Commission reviewed the project’s building design at the October 22, 2019 Study

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Session based on preliminary plans. Planning Commissioner comments and recommendations on this initial design 
included:

Increase open park areas

Provide more variety in unit types and sizes

Building design is favorable

Addition of housing is favorable
Since then, the applicant has refined the building design and site plan which have been reviewed thoroughly by City staff 
and the City’s design review consultant, Larry Cannon of Cannon Design Group. Revisions to the project design since the 
Study Session include an increase in the size of park areas, incorporation of detached single-family residences and stacked 
flat units, and additional resident parking. In his design review comment letters, Larry Cannon notes that the project is 
overall well planned and designed. To further refine the building design, Larry Cannon’s recommendations for 
improvements on the initial design included:

Improve design of walking paths with more width and visual variety

Consider more decorative retaining walls

Refine building designs of detached single-family and multifamily residences through greater variety of designs

Increase wall plane offsets 
In the current design, the applicant incorporated various modifications in consideration of Larry Cannon’s comments. 
These refinements include integration of natural landscaping within retaining wall systems, add visual plane breaks where 
possible to avoid blank wall conditions, and improved variety of designs for various unit types. In his final comment letter, 
Larry Cannon notes no further recommendations for changes and that the applicant has responded in ways adequate to 
address staff’s concerns. Larry Cannon’s final design review comment letter is included in Attachment 7.
Transportation Impact Analysis
The City’s transportation consultant, Kittelson & Associates (Kittelson), conducted a Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) 
to analyze the proposed project’s transportation impacts in accordance with the standards of CEQA and the City’s General 
Plan. Overall, the TIA concludes that the project will generate a net decrease in the number of vehicle trips during the 
weekday AM peak and PM peak hours and a net decrease in the Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) when compared to the 
existing office uses. 
For the purposes of CEQA, the TIA evaluates the project utilizing the metric of VMT. This analysis method is required under 
Senate Bill 743, effective July 1, 2020, to aim at reducing single vehicle occupancy trips rather than increase roadway 
capacity. At the time the project’s formal application and Preliminary Application under SB330 were filed, the City had not 
adopted its current TIA Guidelines. Instead, provisions of the Office of Planning and Research’s (OPR) Technical Advisory on 
Analyzing Transportation Impact in CEQA were followed in effect at the time the project’s Preliminary Application under 
SB330 was filed. The TIA concludes that the project would result in a net reduction of 4,805 VMT (approximately a 15% 
reduction) on a daily basis, which results in a Less Than Significant Impact for CEQA. 
Kittelson also conducted a Level of Service (LOS) of various study intersections in accordance with the City’s General Plan 
criteria. The four study intersections selected for analysis were:
1.
Campus Drive at Hillsdale Boulevard
2.
SR-92 Westbound Ramps at Hillsdale Boulevard
3.
SR-92 Eastbound Ramps at Hillsdale Boulevard
4.
Alameda de las Pulgas at Hillsdale Boulevard
Traffic conditions at these intersections were analyzed for the weekday AM and PM peak hours when demand on the 
roadway system are greatest. Transportation conditions were evaluated in five different scenarios:

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
1.
Existing Conditions
2.
Baseline LOS Conditions
3.
Baseline Plus Project Conditions
4.
Cumulative Conditions
5.
Cumulative Plus Project Conditions
It should be noted that traffic volumes for the Existing Conditions scenario are normally collected through real-time traffic 
volumes. However, traffic volumes instead were estimated given that the TIA was conducted during the Countywide 
Shelter In Place Order during the COVID-19 Pandemic. The TIA concludes that the project would not cause any of the 
studied intersections to exceed the LOS standard as specified in the Circulation Element of the General Plan, and no 
intersection modifications would be required. 
Kittelson’s TIA is included as Attachment 8.
Transportation Demand Management Plan
The project will implement a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan prepared by the City’s TDM consultant, 
Steer. The TDM Plan includes trip reduction strategies with the goal of further reducing overall single-occupancy vehicle 
trips. The project site is not within a specific plan area such as the Rail Corridor Plan Area which requires a minimum trip 
reduction target; as such, the project does not have a specific minimum trip reduction goal. Further, the project is not 
required to implement trip reduction measures as a CEQA mitigation measure given that the project results in a net 
reduction in VMT.
The TDM measures the project proposes include design measures related to the physical attributes of the site as well as 
programmatic measures to encourage the use of sustainable forms of transportation. These measures include:

Upgrading the existing bicycle lane to a Class II bicycle lane along Campus Drive

Sidewalk improvements in accordance with the Citywide Pedestrian Design Guidelines

Homeowner’s Association TDM Coordinator

Onsite bike repair stations

$10,000 Electric bike “E-Bike” subsidy
In addition, the TDM Plan will include other measures that are optional to the developer; while not being implemented 
immediately, these measures have been recommended by the consultant team for the project and are available as options 
for the future. These include implementation of an annual vendor expo, a “Walking School Bus”, and subsidy for a shared 
shuttle service with other office campuses. Other specific trip reduction measures and strategies are indicated in the 
project’s Climate Action Plan (CAP) Checklist, included in Attachment 9.
Emergency Vehicle Access Lane
As mentioned in the Site Description above, an existing emergency vehicle access (EVA) lane immediately east of the 
Southern Site connects Campus Drive to 26th Avenue. At the October 22, 2019 Planning Commission Study Session, several 
community members commented that the existing EVA lane should remain an EVA lane and closed to the public. Opening 
the EVA lane to all motorists would result in a direct corridor to SR-92 causing cut-through traffic and a negative impact to 
residents. 
In recognizing this concern, the applicant worked closely with the San Mateo Consolidated (SMC) Fire Department to avoid 
having to open the EVA lane to the public to meet all applicable California Fire Codes. SMC Fire also imposed Condition of 
Approval #57 which indicates that the lane will remain an EVA under this project and that the applicant will install a new 
cub, sidewalk, and gate to improve the EVA. Furthermore, as mentioned previously, the TIA concludes that the project 
would not require intersection modifications and would not cause any of the studied intersections to exceed the LOS 
standard as specified in the Circulation Element of the General Plan.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Public comments submitted to staff during the formal planning application review are included in Attachment 10. Public 
comments on the project generally pertained to:

Noise impacts

View impacts

Lack of parking

Support for the project

Keep the EVA lane closed to the public
Public comments after publishing of this report will be forwarded to the Planning Commission for review and 
consideration at the Public Hearing.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with CEQA an Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration (IS/MND) has been prepared to assess the 
project’s environmental impact. The IS/MND concludes that this project would not have significant effects to the 
environment with implementation of Mitigation Measures.
Required Mitigation Measures include heightened monitoring of construction activities for biological resources, hazardous 
materials, noise, and vibration. The project’s Mitigation, Monitoring, or Reporting Program (MMRP) is included as 
Attachment 11, which is in place to ensure compliance with the Mitigation Measures analyzed and required by the 
IS/MND.
Distribution of the IS/MND consisted of a paper copy available at the City’s Permit Center, a paper copy to the Planning 
Commission, and online posting at www.cityofsanmateo.org/peninsulaheights. The public review and comment period of 
the IS/MND occurred between November 12, 2020 and December 2, 2020. Staff did not receive comments pertaining 
directly to the IS/MND that required further analysis or resulted in the identification of new or worse impacts. Public 
comments after the public review period will be forwarded to the Planning Commission for review and consideration at 
the Public Hearing.
NOTICE PROVIDED:
In accordance with Government Code Section 65090, notice of this public hearing was published in the San Mateo Daily 
Journal newspaper more than ten days in advance of this Planning Commission meeting. In accordance with Government 
Code Section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this public hearing was noticed to the following 
parties more than ten days in advance of this Planning Commission meeting:

Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site.

The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects; 

The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and,

The interested parties list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Resolution
Att 2 – Location Map
Att 3 – Project Plans Volume 1
Att 4 – Project Plans Volume 2
Att 5 – Factual Data Sheet
Att 6 – Density Bonus Request Letter
Att 7 – Cannon Design Group Review Letter
Att 8 – Transportation Impact Analysis

--- page 15 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Att 9 – CAP Checklist
Att 10 – Public Comments
Att 11 – Mitigation Monitoring or Reporting Program
Att 12 – Public Comments received after packet
STAFF CONTACT
Rendell Bustos, Acting Senior Planner
rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7211

--- page 16 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2020)
APPROVING THE SPECIAL USE PERMIT (SUP), SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW (SPAR), SITE 
DEVELOPMENT PLANNING APPLICATION (SDPA), AND VESTING TENTATIVE MAP TO CONSTRUCT 290 
RESIDENTIAL UNITS, ASSOCIATED PARKING FACILITIES, LANDSCAPING, ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS, AND 
OPEN SPACE AREAS, AND ADOPT THE MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION
WHEREAS, Harvest Properties has requested the construction of 290 residential units, associated 
parking facilities, landscaping, roadway improvements, and open space areas for a residential development 
called Peninsula Heights (the “Project”);
WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Charter and Municipal Code Section 27.06.040 requires final action from 
the Planning Commission for projects which include Site Plan and Architectural Review for projects of six or 
more dwelling units;
WHEREAS, the City circulated an Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration to assess 
environmental impacts in accordance with CEQA Guidelines 15070 from November 12, 2020 to December 2, 
2020;
WHEREAS, the City finds the Project consistent with the applicable policies of the General Plan and other 
applicable policies;
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing for the Project on December 8, 2020 duly 
noticed, at which all public comments were considered;
WHEREAS, all applicable Conditions of Approval have been attached as Exhibit A.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY 
FINDS AND RESOLVES that:
1.
The Planning Commission finds on the basis of the whole record before it that there is no 
substantial evidence that the project will have a significant effect on the environment and the 
Mitigated Negative Declaration reflects the lead agency’s independent judgment and analysis.
2.
The custodian of the documents or other material which constitute the record of the proceeding 
upon which this decision is based is the Community Development Department, located at City 
Hall, 330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, California.
3.
The Mitigated Negative Declaration for the Peninsula Heights project and the Mitigation 
Monitoring, or Reporting program are adopted.  
4.
The Special Use Permit (Municipal Code Section 27.74.020) application and associated 
Conditions of Approval are approved based on the finding that granting of the Special Permit for 
residential uses will not adversely affect the general health, safety and/or welfare of the 
community nor will it cause injury or disturbance to adjacent property by traffic or by excessive 
noise, smoke, odor, noxious gas, dust, glare, heat, fumes or industrial waste given that the

--- page 17 ---
proposed residential uses are compatible with existing residential uses to the north, south, and 
east. The project’s proposed land use has also been analyzed to not cause disturbance to the 
existing neighborhood with respect to traffic or noise.
5.
The Site Plan and Architectural Review (Municipal Code Section 27.08.030) application and 
associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following findings:
a.
The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character of 
the neighborhood in that:
i.
The design, height, and bulk of the buildings have been designed to integrate into 
the existing neighborhood’
ii.
The design of the residential buildings and associated structures comply with the 
maximum building height of 55 feet to the plateline and provide deep setbacks to 
the property lines reducing potential visual impacts; and
iii.
The buildings utilize high quality materials and incorporates an abundance of 
landscape throughout the project to enhance the site.
b.
The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City 
in that:
i.
The project is consistent with the Appendix B of the City’s General Plan allowing 
residential uses through a Special Use Permit;
ii.
The project has analyzed traffic, circulation, and parking to minimize impacts to the 
neighborhood; and
iii.
The design of the buildings acknowledges and respects the existing residential 
neighborhoods to the north, south, and east in their mass and bulk to reduce visual 
impacts.
c.
The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, 
and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare in that:
i.
The project provides additional housing opportunities and would not result in any 
significant impacts regarding public health, safety, or welfare as conditioned;
ii.
The project enhances the existing Campus Drive area which consists primarily of 
office uses;
iii.
The project will be constructed in compliance with all building codes, fire codes, and 
the City’s building security code.
d.
The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission 
and City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of the 
zoning ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site.
e.
The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security in that the buildings, paths of travel, and parking facilities will be 
required to conform to the City’s current Security Ordinance through Conditions of 
Approval.
6.
The Site Development Planning Application (Municipal Code Section 23.40.040) and associated 
Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following findings:
a.
The project will result in the removal of 327 existing trees, of which 145 are considered 
Heritage Trees. The removal of these trees is necessary to accommodate the development 
of the proposed project. All trees will be removed and replaced with appropriate

--- page 18 ---
landscaping to both enhance the site and create necessary buffers between surrounding 
properties. 
b.
All concerns regarding tree removal on the site have been addressed as conditions of 
approval requiring conformance to the City's landscape regulations, through the provision of 
extensive on-site landscaping as shown on the project plans, and/or through the payment of 
a fee to the City’s tree planting fund.
7.
The Vesting Tentative Map (Municipal Code Section 26.48.060) application and associated 
Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following findings:
a.
The proposed map is consistent with applicable General Plan policies in that Appendix B of 
the City’s General Plan allows residential uses in all non-residential land use areas including 
Executive Office areas;
b.
The site is physically suitable for the type of development in that the site is currently 
developed with structures and is served by all required utilities and public services;
c.
The site is physically suitable for the proposed density of development in that the site has a 
maximum density of 34.84 dwelling units per acre, which this project complies with;
d.
The design of the subdivision or the proposed improvements are not likely to cause 
substantial environmental damage or substantially and avoidably injure fish or wildlife or 
their habitat in that it redevelops a site located in an urban setting which has been 
previously improved with paving and other development;
e.
The design of the subdivision or type of improvements is not likely to cause serious public 
health problems in that City’s ordinances reduce potential air quality and noise impacts 
during construction, and the project will also contribute to public improvements roadways 
and public facilities and will otherwise not constrain the delivery of public services; and
f.
The design of the subdivision or the type of improvements will not conflict with easements, 
acquired by the public at large, for access through or use of, property within the proposed 
subdivision.
8.
The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Land Use Element, Circulation Element, 
Housing Element, Urban Design Element, Conservation and Open Space Element, and Noise 
Element of the City’s General Plan. 
a.
The Project conforms to Policy LU 1.14 of the Land Use Element, which encourages 
achieving a balanced mix of land uses and minimizing impacts between land uses through a 
Special Use Permit. This Project includes approval of a Special Use Permit and has been 
analyzed to be compatible with the existing surrounding uses. In conformance with Land 
Use Area Specific Policy PA 8.7, the existing emergency vehicle access lane between Campus 
Drive and 26th Avenue will remain for emergency use only to protect surrounding 
residences. 
b.
The Project conforms to policies C 2.5 and C 2.10 of the Circulation Element in that a 
Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) and Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan 
have been prepared for this project. The TIA has found that a reduction in the Project’s 
Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) results in a reduction when compared to the existing office 
uses. The TDM Plan nonetheless recommends further trip reduction measures.
c.
The Project conforms to policy H2.4 of the Housing Element in that the project provides new 
affordable housing opportunities in conformance with the City’s below-market-rate 
requirements.
d.
The Project conforms to UD 2.1 and UD 2.3 of the Urban Design Element in that the design 
of the Project has been reviewed by the City’s Design Review Consultant for conformance 
with the City’s Multifamily Design Guidelines, which address enhancement of neighborhood

--- page 19 ---
character through building design. In addition, the Project provides an abundance of public 
open space opportunities in conformance with UD 2.5.
e.
The Project conforms to C/OS 6.1 and C/OS 6.2 of the Conservation and Open Space 
Element in that the Project preserves existing Heritage Trees where possible and proposes 
replacement planting when removal is proposed. In addition, the project provides new 
public open space opportunities in conformance with C/OS 10.1.
f.
The Project conforms to N1.1 and N1.2 of the Noise Element in that an acoustical analysis 
will be required of the project at later stages of the permit review process. Also, a Noise 
Study has been prepared for the project, which estimates a reduction in noise when 
compared to the existing operational noise of the office uses.

--- page 20 ---
EXHIBIT A
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
PA-2020-012, PENINSULA HEIGHTS (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + VESTING TENTATIVE MAP)
2988 CAMPUS DR 100, SAN MATEO, CA 94403-2531
PARCEL # 041521010
AS APPROVED BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON 12/08/2020
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of 
approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance. 
Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance.
The following conditions shall be addressed on the construction plans submitted for any 
DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING PERMIT, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, and shall be satisfied 
prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued first, or if another deadline is specified in a 
condition, at that time.
Building Division (PA)
 1 SITE SURVEY – The applicant shall provide professional survey(s) of all parcels stamped 
and signed by a Land Surveyor licensed by the State of California in the building permit 
submittal. The survey(s) shall include, but not be limited to, the following: location and 
dimensions of property line, location of streets and easements, existing buildings, 
topographic contour lines, trees/landscape, miscellaneous structures, etc.  (BUILDING)
 2 PRE-CONSTRUCTION CONFERENCE - A pre-construction conference shall be held at a 
time and location agreed upon by the City and applicant for the purpose of reviewing 
Conditions of Approval and construction-site procedures. The applicant(s) shall be 
represented by their design and construction group, which include any subcontractors. 
Departments having Conditions of Approval for the project will represent the City. This 
meeting shall be held prior to issuance of the Demolition Permit, Building Permit or 
Site Development Permit, and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit is 
issued first. (BUILDING)
 3 DEMOLITION - Demolition permit(s) shall be issued in accordance with Section 
23.06.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code.  Safeguards during construction shall be 
provided in accordance with Chapter 33 of the California Building Code.  Prior to the 
permit issuance, a completed Worksheet/Application and a Demolition Plan must be 
submitted and approved by the Building Official.  This form is available at the Building 
Division Counter.  (BUILDING)
 4 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS - As required by state law, an asbestos and lead paint 
abatement scope of work will be developed prior to issuance of a demolition permit 
for the structure on the project site. All measures outlined in this scope of work shall 
be implemented as part of the project. This scope of work shall outline the 
performance parameters for hazardous remediation standards and regulatory

--- page 21 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 2 of 42
compliance criteria. In addition, any asbestos abatement contractors performing work 
on the site will be licensed by the State of California. Buildings of the age of those on 
the project site may contain mercury and/or PCBs. Therefore these hazardous 
materials shall be found and removed prior to demolition and recycling. This will be 
verified as part of a final hazardous materials report prepared by a qualified consultant 
and will be submitted to the Building Division prior to issuance of a demolition permit. 
(BUILDING)
 5 SOILS REPORT – The applicant shall provide a stamped, signed, and dated soil 
investigation report containing design recommendations to the Building Official with 
Site Development and Building Permits.  The classification shall be based on 
observation and any necessary tests of materials disclosed by boring or excavations 
made in appropriate locations.  Additional studies may be necessary to evaluate soil 
strength, the effect of moisture variation on soil-bearing capacity, compressibility, 
liquefaction, seismically induced soil liquefaction, soil instability, and expansiveness.  
Additionally, the applicant shall submit a stamped, signed, and dated letter from the 
Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared the soil investigation stating the 
following:
(A)     The plans and specifications substantially conform to the recommendations in 
the soil investigation.
(B)     The Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared the soil investigation 
has been retained to provide soil site observation and provide periodic and final 
reports to the City of San Mateo.
Prior to final inspection for any building or structure, the Geotechnical Engineer or Civil 
Engineer who prepared the soil investigation shall issue a final report stating the 
completed pad, foundation, finish grading and associated site work substantially 
conform to the approved plans, specifications and investigations. (BUILDING)
 6 CALGREEN – All buildings shall be designed to include the green building measures 
specified as mandatory in the application checklists contained in the California Green 
Building Standards Code with local amendments per San Mateo Reach Code. The 
applicant shall incorporate the checklist along with a notation on the checklist to 
specify where the information can be located on the plans, details, or specifications, 
etc. on the building permit plans for the superstructure. (BUILDING)

--- page 22 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 3 of 42
 7 SHORING/SCAFFOLDING - A separate building permit shall be required for all shoring 
and scaffolding work prior to issuance of any building permits for foundation and the 
superstructure.  Shoring/scaffolding plans, calculations, etc., shall be reviewed and 
approved by Building Division.  The applicant must obtain an encroachment permit 
from the Public Works Department for scaffolding erected within the public 
right-of-way. (BUILDING)
Fire Department (PA)
 8 WATER SUPPLY - All City/District-owned water systems and on-site water systems shall 
be looped with two points of connection to the satisfaction of the City Engineer. They 
shall meet the requirements of State Department of Health Services, the City's Public 
Works Department and the Fire Marshal. The water supply information shall be 
submitted to the Fire Marshal or his/her designee for review and approval prior to the 
issuance of the building permit for the superstructure. (FIRE)
 9 FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM - The applicant shall install a fire sprinkler system throughout 
the single-family dwellings and townhomes in accordance with NFPA 13D or the 
California Residential Code. The townhome over flats (four story) designs shall be 
required to install an NFPA 13 fire sprinkler system. The riser for the 13 system shall be 
located in an exterior closet with the Fire Alarm Control Unit. Fire sprinkler plans shall 
be a deferred submittal. The fire sprinkler plans are subject to review and approval by 
the Fire Marshal or his/her designee prior to issuance of a fire sprinkler permit. (FIRE)
 10 CODE CONFORMANCE - The applicant shall indicate on all building permit plans that all 
construction shall meet current code standards at the time of building permit 
submittal. The building permit plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire 
Marshal or his/her designee prior to issuance of the building permit. (FIRE)
 11 SUBMITTALS - The applicant shall submit all fire plans in conjunction with the 
superstructure building permit plans. The plans are subject to review and approval by 
the Fire Marshal or his/her designee prior to issuance of the superstructure building 
permit plans.  (FIRE)
 12 FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROAD - The applicant shall provide a Fire Apparatus Access 
Road serving each structure on the property. The widths of the Fire Apparatus Access 
Road shall comply with the design indicated on sheets C6.1, C14.1, and C14.2 of the 
approved planning application and the areas with a

--- page 23 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 4 of 42
minimum of 26-foot unobstructed linear width shall provide an unobstructed height of 
no less than 13 feet, 6 inches. The access road shall be submitted to the Fire Marshal 
or his/her designee for review and approval prior to the issuance of the building permit 
for the superstructure.  (FIRE)
 13 FIRE HYDRANTS - The applicant shall install 13 public/private fire hydrant(s) spaced as 
per the SMC Fire ordinance.  All fire hydrants used for fire flow for the project site shall 
be upgraded to a Clow model 960 or equivalent consisting of (2) 2½ inch and (1) 4½ 
inch outlet.  Each hydrant shall be capable of providing a minimum fire flow of 1500 
gpm at 20 psi residual pressure.  Water supply for fire protection is required to be 
installed in accordance with water purveyor’s specifications.  The water supply shall be 
tested, flushed and approved operable PRIOR to any combustible construction 
materials being placed on the site.  Staged construction shall insure that the necessary 
water supply is maintained from stage to stage in the construction planning. The letter 
shall be submitted to the Fire Marshal or his/her designee for review and approval 
before the issuance of a fire sprinkler permit. (FIRE)
 14 FIRE FLOW - The project shall meet the fire flow rate and duration requirements of the 
California Fire Code. The fire flow information shall be submitted to the Fire Marshal or 
his/her designee for review and approval prior to the issuance of the building permit. 
(FIRE)
Parks and Recreation Department (PA)
 15 INITIAL SITE INSPECTION - Prior to the issuance of demolition permits, the Project 
Arborist is to submit with a letter with photos to the City's Planning Division verifying 
that all tree protection measures were properly implemented for any tree(s) impacted 
by demolition work per phase. Prior to the issuance of subsequent permits, the Project 
Arborist shall submit a follow up letter with photos to the City's Planning Division 
verifying that all tree protection measure were property implemented for all remaining 
protected tree(s) per phase. A schedule of future site inspections may be required 
when submitting for building permits.  (PARKS AND RECREATION)
 16 TREE PROTECTION MEASURES ON PLANS - The most current version of the Project 
Arborist report and tree protection plan shall be reproduced so as to be readable on 
one or more full-size sheets of the building permit plans for demolition and the 
superstructure. (PARKS AND RECREATION)
Planning Division (PA)

--- page 24 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 5 of 42
 17 BELOW MARKET RATE (BMR) OWNERSHIP UNITS AGREEMENT– Pursuant to Municipal 
Code Section 27.16.050 and Resolution 135 (2010), the applicant shall enter into and 
record a BMR Affordability Restriction Agreement to provide BMR units. This also 
includes payment of below market rate program in-lieu fee for fractional units as 
outlined in the City of San Mateo Comprehensive Fee Schedule. This Condition shall be 
satisfied prior to issuance of the building permit for the superstructure (PLANNING)
 18 SIGN PERMIT - All on-site signage shall require a separate building permit that is issued 
through the Building Division.  All signs shall conform to the standards delineated in 
the Sign Code, Title 25 of the Municipal Code.  No signage is approved as part of this 
Planning Application. The applicant will be responsible for obtaining separate permits 
for signage through the Building Division. (PLANNING)
 19 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – All building permits plans shall include all the Conditions 
of Approval beginning on sheet 2 of the plans.  (PLANNING)
 20 SCREENING OF ROOFTOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT – All rooftop mechanical 
equipment shall be screened by a solid enclosure or parapet wall and shall be shown 
on the building permit plans for the superstructure. Rooftop screening shall be 
constructed with the same building materials as the building exterior, or other 
compatible materials as approved by the Planning Manager and/or Zoning 
Administrator. (PLANNING)
 21 LOCATION AND FULL SCREENING OF ABOVE GROUND UTILITIES, EQUIPMENT, AND 
DEVICES INCLUDING TRANSFORMERS AND BACK FLOW PREVENTORS - All ground level 
utilities, equipment, and other project related operational/utility devices (“Items”) 
shall be shown on the building permit plans, consistent with the approved planning 
application plans.  All Items shall be fully screened on all four sides from public view by 
a solid wall or solid wood fence that complies with San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 
27.84 Fences, Trees and Hedges. Landscaping in the form of densely planted tall shrubs 
may be utilized where placement of a fence is infeasible, subject to review and 
determination by the Zoning Administrator in the field. These Items shall be setback as 
far as feasible from street frontages and shall be fully screened with landscaping or 
other screening material. The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show 
the location and screening of these items and this condition shall be shall be addressed 
on the construction plans submitted for any demolition permit, building permit, or site 
development permit and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit

--- page 25 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 6 of 42
is issued first; however; the final location and required screening of all Items shall be 
reviewed and approved by the Zoning Administrator prior to release of utilities, final 
inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first 
(PLANNING)
 22 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – All outstanding planning 
application fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of the first building permit.  
(PLANNING)
 23 TRASH AND RECYCLING ENCLOSURES - All above-ground trash and recycling enclosures 
shall be screened from public view through fencing, and/or perimeter landscaping. The 
building permit plans for the superstructure shall show the location and screening of 
the enclosure(s) in conformance with the approved planning application. (PLANNING)
 24 CONFORMANCE WITH APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION - All building permit 
application plans and details, and subsequent construction shall substantially conform 
with the approved planning application, including: plans, materials samples, building 
colors, the written project description, and other items submitted as part of the 
approved planning application. This planning application is approved with a range of 
285-290 housing units. Documentation of any changes to the approved planning 
application plan set shall be provided at the time of building permit application 
submittal. Any proposed modifications to the approved planning application must be 
reviewed by the Planning Manager and/or Zoning Administrator. Modifications to 
Building Permit plans must be approved prior to construction of the modified 
improvements. The Planning Manager and/or Zoning Administrator shall determine 
whether the proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved planning 
application, or whether a planning application for a modification of a previously 
approved planning application is required to be submitted to permit the proposed 
project modifications, as required by San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 
Modifications. (PLANNING)
 25 RECORDATION OF CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – The applicant shall record the final 
approved planning application conditions of approval document at the San Mateo 
County Recorder’s Office. The applicant shall submit proof of recordation in the form 
of a recorded document that includes a confirmation sticker with the recordation 
evidence. This document shall be recorded prior to the issuance of the first building 
permit. (PLANNING)
 26 PHASED PROJECTS - Applicant shall submit a complete phasing plan indicating all

--- page 26 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 7 of 42
infrastructure and other site improvements to be installed in conjunction with the 
construction of a particular building, parcel, or phase of development. The phasing 
plan may be revised subject to the review and approval of the Planning Manager and 
City Engineer, or their designees. (PLANNING)
 27 INTERIOR NOISE LEVELS – The project shall comply with the City’s Noise Goals as 
enumerated in the Noise Element of the General Plan. The applicant shall provide an 
acoustical analysis, by a licensed acoustical consultant, which shall contain 
recommendations to ensure the building’s interior LDN levels are in compliance with 
the levels established in the San Mateo General Plan.  A copy of the acoustical analysis 
shall be submitted as part of the building permit plans for the superstructure. 
(PLANNING)
 28 VECTOR CONTROL PLAN - Prior to the issuance of the first building permit, the 
applicant shall implement and conform to, upon review and approval by the Planning 
Manager and/or Zoning Administrator, a plan for the control and removal of rodents 
and other pests to prevent infestation of adjacent land uses and surrounding 
neighborhoods. This plan shall include pest control measures required during all 
phases of construction, and also for a period of six months after the completion of 
construction.  (PLANNING)
 29 SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT FOR REMOVAL OF TREES AND TREE REPLACEMENT/IN 
LIEU FEES - The applicant shall obtain a Site Development Permit from the Planning 
Division for removal of existing trees with a diameter of 6 inches or larger. The 
applicant shall propose to plant trees on the project site equivalent to the Landscape 
Unit (LU) value of trees to be removed, pay a fee in lieu of planting trees at the rate 
established in the annual Comprehensive Fee Schedule, or a combination of both. This 
condition may be satisfied immediately after the planning application final approval, 
and shall be satisfied prior to the issuance of the first building permit. (PLANNING)
 30 LANDSCAPE IMPROVEMENTS - All landscape plans shall comply with Chapter 27.71 of 
the Municipal Code. In addition, the following items shall be shown on project plans:
(A)     All planting areas located within or adjacent to open parking areas containing five 
(5) or more parking spaces  shall provide a six-inch-high vertical concrete curb to 
protect the planting areas. For parking lots containing less than 5 stalls, this 
requirement may be met by a concrete wheel stop in front of each diagonal or 
perpendicular stall plus a minimum six-inch-high concrete curb in

--- page 27 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 8 of 42
other areas or approved equal. 
(B)    Street trees along public streets in accordance with City Standards and the City 
Street Tree Master Plan shall be installed and shown on the building permit plans. 
Street trees that are located in sidewalk areas shall be constructed per City Standard 
Drawings 3-1-847, Tree Planting Details and as approved in the planning application 
project plans. The applicant and its successors shall irrigate these street trees at all 
times that the use permitted under this approval occupies the property.  A street tree 
maintenance easement shall be required if the street trees are to be located on private 
property and no such easement exists. 
(C)     A two-inch (2") depth layer of mulch shall be required in all new planting areas 
except in areas of turfgrass or annuals.
(D)     The applicant shall provide proof of an agreement with a licensed landscape 
contractor or General Contractor for a Plant Establishment Maintenance Period 
consisting of three (3) growing season months (March through October) for all 
proposed landscape areas.  All landscaped areas shall be maintained free of litter, 
debris and weeds.  All plantings shall be permanently maintained in a healthy growing 
condition and whenever necessary, replaced with equivalent plant materials to ensure 
continued conformance with approved plans.  (PLANNING)
 31 HERITAGE TREE PROTECTION - The applicant shall protect all heritage trees designated 
to remain from damage during construction.  Tree protection shall comply with all 
provisions of the Heritage Tree Ordinance, approved Tree Protection Plan contained in 
the approved project arborist's report, and any requirements imposed by the City. The 
following tree protection measures shall be shown on building permit drawings: 
(A)     All recommendations for tree protection contained in the approved Tree 
Protection Plan contained in the approved project arborist's report, and/or additional 
requirements imposed by the City.
(B)     Protective fencing shall be located at the drip line of existing major vegetation to 
remain. This protective fencing shall be constructed of solid wood, chain link, or other 
solid materials subject to approval of the Zoning Administrator.
In addition, the following requirements shall be complied with at all times during

--- page 28 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 9 of 42
construction:
(C)     Oil, gas, chemicals, or construction materials shall not be stored within the drip 
line of trees that are designated to be preserved.
(D)     Signs, wires, or other types of obstructions shall not be attached to trees.
(E)     Trenching under the drip line of trees is to be avoided.  If trenching is necessary, 
trenches are to be hand dug and major roots retained.  
All tree protection measures shall be constructed prior to issuance of a grading permit, 
demolition permit, or building permit. The Project Arborist shall submit a letter and 
photos to the Project Planner verifying that all tree protection measures are properly 
implemented prior to the issuance of the first building permit.   (PLANNING)
Police Department (PA)
 32 PHOTOMETRIC PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENT - The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall include a photometric plan showing the installation of lighting 
fixtures and lighting levels to be reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police or 
his/her designee. The photometric plan shall include point-by-point lighting levels in 
foot-candles for the entire plot and ten feet beyond the project property lines.  The 
point-by-point photometric plan shall provide lighting levels on a grid not to exceed 
five feet by five feet across the entire site.  Each point shall report the illuminance to 
the nearest 0.1 foot-candles.  Photometric calculations including maximum 
foot-candles, average foot-candles, minimum foot-candles, average to minimum 
uniformity, and maximum to minimum uniformity shall be included on the plan 
submitted.  Select specifications for fixtures selected shall be provided on the 
photometric plan sufficient to ensure compliance with the SITE LIGHTING STANDARDS.  
(POLICE)
 33 PRIVATELY-OWNED PUBLIC OPEN SPACES, ADDRESSING - Prior to the first building 
permit application the applicant shall propose separate and unique address for the 
proposed public open spaces.  The proposed addresses shall be subject to approval by 
the Chief of Police or his/her designee, Public Works, and Fire Departments. (POLICE)
 34 SITE FURNITURE - The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show 
permanent site furniture accessible to the public designed and installed to deter

--- page 29 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 10 of 42
an adult from laying down by installing arm rests not more than 4' apart, or by 
designing elevation changes 4" or more on horizontal surfaces every 4'. Temporary site 
furniture shall be secured at the close of each business day. (POLICE)
 35 BUILDING SECURITY CODE COMPLIANCE - The building permit plans shall comply with 
the City’s Building Security Code (San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.54).  (POLICE)
Public Works Department (PA)
 36 NOTICE OF INTENT - The project applicant shall file a Notice of Intent (NOI) with the 
State Water Resources Control Board to obtain coverage under the State General 
Construction Activity NPDES Permit. Proof of permit must be provided to the Public 
Works Department along with a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) 
prepared by a qualified SWPPP designer prior to issuance of the STOPPP Construction 
permit. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 37 UTILITY WILL-SERVE LETTERS & CLEARANCES - The applicant shall provide
will-serve letters from the various utility companies including, but not limited to, 
domestic water, electric, gas, etc. to ensure adequate service can be provided for the 
proposed development.
On the building permit plans for the superstructure, the applicant shall show required 
clearances between all existing utilities and the proposed relocated City Storm Main 
and green infrastructure (drainage appurtenances, street trees, etc.) on Campus Drive. 
If the project cannot meet required clearances between an existing utility and the 
proposed relocated City Storm Main and/or green infrastructure, the applicant shall 
submit documented approval from the agency with jurisdiction over said utility, or 
relocate the utility within the Public Right-of-Way as required by the agency at the 
applicant’s cost, subject to review and approval by the City Engineer. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 38 GARBAGE/RECYCLE/COMPOSTING STORAGE AND SERVICE – The applicant shall 
provide an adequate area for the purposes of storing garbage, recycling, composting 
collection containers per the approved planning application for scheduled servicing by 
the franchise solid waste collection service. The containers shall be placed at the 
service location allowing enough room for the truck to safely approach the containers. 
The collection containers shall remain in the storage enclosures and immediately 
returned to the storage enclosures after service. The containers are not to be in public 
view or in the public right-of-way prior to, or beyond the scheduled service times. A 
letter shall be provided from

--- page 30 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 11 of 42
the City’s franchise solid waste collection service provider stating that service is 
available to the project as designed. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 39 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL - The applicant shall submit erosion control 
measures including silt fences, fiber rolls, proposed cribbing (retaining walls or riprap), 
terraces, and/or surface protection, required for drainage and erosion control of the 
property per Municipal Code section 23.40.040(a) prior to issuance of a building 
and/or site development permit, subject to review and approval of the Public Works 
Department. Conformance with these measures will reduce soil erosion during 
construction. The applicant shall submit an Erosion and Sediment Control Plan (which 
includes erosion control measures), if required by the City Engineer. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 40 ADDRESS PLAN - The applicant shall submit to the Public Works Department a final 
address plan. Said submittal shall be approved by the City Engineer prior to issuance of 
the first building superstructure permit issued within each phased final map. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
 41 FENCES AND OTHER PERMANENT STRUCTURES WITHIN CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY – The 
applicant shall locate all project fencing and foundation of a permanent nature within 
the project’s property and out of the City right-of-way. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 42 STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION - The applicant shall comply with the 
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program Construction Permit (SWPPPCP) 
requirements and prepare a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) (San 
Mateo Municipal Code Section 7.39). (PUBLIC WORKS)
 43 CHARGES FOR PUBLIC WORKS SERVICES - Prior to plan checking, the applicant shall be 
required to deposit with the City, funds to pay for, at the adopted rate, all engineering, 
inspection and survey services that may be required during plan check and 
construction of the project.  The amount of the deposit shall be $30,000.00.  Public 
Works plan checking of the plans submitted with the building permit plans cannot 
proceed until the deposit is submitted.  The applicant shall be required to increase the 
deposit, or be billed monthly at the discretion of the City, for any costs in excess of the 
deposit.  If billed monthly, invoices shall not become delinquent (must be paid within 
30 days of receipt).  Prior to final occupancy the bill shall be paid in full.  The City will 
refund any portion of the deposit not utilized.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
 44 CLEAN, INSPECT AND REPAIR STORM LINE - The applicant shall clean and inspect (via 
remote TV camera) the storm line from the manhole upstream to the

--- page 31 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 12 of 42
manhole downstream of the project area (MH 23F:17 to MH 23F:18, CB 23G:07 to CB 
23G:10, and MH 23G:04 to MH 24G:01). The video inspection shall be done by a 
professional video inspection company, to City standards, and be completed prior to 
building permit issuance. The video of the inspection shall be reviewed with the 
Department of Public Works and any cracked or broken areas of the line along the 
project frontage shall be repaired by the applicant. The required repairs, as 
determined by the Public Works Department, shall appear on the improvement plans 
submitted by the applicant for permit plan check. The applicant will fund any repairs as 
necessary to serve the development in an amount not to exceed $84,000. If the 
estimated costs of repair exceed $84,000, the applicant shall complete the repairs and 
contact the City to pursue potential methods to obtain reimbursement from future 
applicants benefitting from the improvements. All necessary repairs to the storm line 
shall be completed and approved prior to connection from the project site. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
 45 TRIANGULAR AREA OF VISIBILITY – The building permit application plans shall show 
that the installation of landscaping and permanent structures located within the 10' 
triangular area of visibility at the driveway, and 45’ triangular area of visibility at any 
project corner meets the requirements of a minimum vertical clearance of 7', and/or 
are less than 3' in height. This includes all PG&E above ground structures and other 
utility facilities. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 46 POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCB) SCREENING ASSESSMENT FORM - As per 
Stormwater Municipal Regional Permit requirements and City Code Section 7.39.120, 
Demolition Permit (DP) Applicants shall complete the PCBs Screening Assessment Form 
as described within the guidelines included within the Building Demolition Plan 
Submittal Checklist. The Form shall be reviewed and approved by the City Engineer or 
his/her designee, prior to issuance of a demolition, site development, or building 
permit, whichever occurs first. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 47 STORM DRAIN INLETS AND WATERWAYS - The building permit application plans shall 
show the marking of the words “No Dumping! Flows to Bay,” or equivalent, on all 
storm inlets surrounding and within the project site using methods approved by the 
City standards, consistent with the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention 
Program’s C.3 requirements. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 48 DRAINAGE - Drainage designed into landscaping with the purpose of reducing volume 
or improving quality of runoff from the site shall be implemented, to extent feasible, 
subject to the approval of the City Engineer. No increase to the peak discharge shall be 
permitted downstream. In addition, discharge must

--- page 32 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 13 of 42
conform to any non point source permit issued by the Regional Water Quality Control 
Board. Drainage improvements made on-site shall conform to standard engineering 
practices and shall not allow any site drainage to impact adjacent properties. All 
drainage capacity calculations shall be performed by a licensed Civil Engineer, whose 
signed engineer’s stamp shall appear on the calculations sheets, and shall be 
submitted to the City for review and approval with the project civil plans. The applicant 
shall install bioretention areas. For projects that include permanent structural controls 
for water quality protection, the O&M (operation and maintenance) procedures for 
such control features shall be submitted for review and approval prior to occupancy 
and specify the developer or property owners' responsibility to ensure their ongoing 
effective operation and maintenance. Such O&M responsibility requirements shall be 
recorded at the County of San Mateo Recorder's Office. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 49 ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE - The applicant must obtain an 
encroachment permit, posting the required bonds and insurance, and provide a one (1) 
year warranty for all work to be done in the City's right of way associated with the 
encroachment permit.
An encroachment permit for Item (A) below shall be obtained prior to the first building 
permit for demolition or site development, whichever occurs first, and prior to any 
work being done in the City's right of way identified in the phasing plan as being 
associated with that permit. The remaining items below shall be obtained prior to the 
superstructure building permit associated with the phase of work identified in the 
phasing plan.
The applicant shall have public improvement plans prepared for all work in the public 
right of way by a licensed civil engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp shall appear 
on the plans. The improvement plans shall be included in the superstructure building 
permit submittal. All design assumptions and criteria shall be submitted. Project 
specifications shall be included for review.
Quantities for items below are provided only to determine minimum bonding 
requirements for the encroachment permit. The quantities and location of the items 
below shall match the approved planning application plans to the maximum extent 
possible. Exact locations and quantities shall be determined during the building permit 
phase.
The encroachment permit shall include, at a minimum, the following items:

--- page 33 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 14 of 42
(A) TRAFFIC CONTROL & SITE LOGISTICS PLANS – The applicant shall submit traffic 
control plans for any impact to the right-of-way, including a pedestrian detour plan.  
The traffic control plan shall comply with the most recent version of the California 
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD) and the City’s Traffic Control 
Plan Requirements.
A site logistics plan is required for each phase of operation.  The plan, at a minimum, 
shall include estimated timeframes for implementation, duration, and construction 
operations.
(B) STREET TREES – The applicant shall plant street trees to match the City of San 
Mateo street tree plan or per the approved Planning Application in effect at the time 
of construction. The street tree plans shall include tree root barriers constructed per 
City Standard Drawings 3-1-933.
(C) STREET MARKINGS & SIGNAGE - The applicant shall install necessary street 
markings and signage of a material and design approved by the City Engineer, and 
replace any that are damaged during construction. These include but are not limited to 
all pavement markings, signage, painted curbs, and
-
Roadway re-striping, pavement markings, signage and Class II Bike lanes on both 
sides of Campus Drive from the Laurelwood Shopping Center to the roundabout at the 
end of Campus Drive per the approved planning application plans to the maximum 
extent possible.
-
Crosswalk striping and signage perpendicular to Campus Drive along the Northern 
Site as shown on the approved plans.
All permanent pavement markings shall be thermoplastic. Color, location of painted 
curbs, signage, and markings shall be shown on the plans and subject to approval by 
the City Engineer.  Any existing painted curb or pavement markings no longer required 
shall be removed by grinding if thermoplastic, sand blasting if in paint. Once installed, 
the applicant shall coordinate with City crews to mark any red curb within the 
proposed City right-of-way with a City seal.
(D)     SIDEWALK - The applicant shall replace to existing City standards all sidewalk 
surrounding the project sites. Sidewalk replacement shall be constructed

--- page 34 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 15 of 42
per City Standard Drawing 3-1-141A and 3-1-141C. At the time the planning application 
was filed, a minimum of nine thousand three hundred and twenty four (9,324) square 
feet of sidewalk will need to be replaced. In addition, the applicant shall replace to 
existing City Standards sidewalk on Parcel B of the Peninsula Office Park Subdivision 
Map (Volume 78 of Maps Pages 32 & 33). Sidewalk replacement for Parcel B shall be 
constructed per City Standard 3-1-141B and 3-1-141C. At the time the planning 
application was filed, a minimum of eight hundred and ninety (890) square feet of 
sidewalk will need to be replaced. These figures are provided only to determine 
minimum bonding requirements for the encroachment permit.
(E) GATES OR BOLLARDS - The applicant shall install gates or bollards on Parcel B of the 
Peninsula Office Park Subdivision Map (Volume 78 of Maps Pages 32 & 33), as 
approved by the City Engineer.
(F)     CURB RAMPS - The applicant shall construct two (2) curb ramps in accordance 
with State Standard Drawing No. A88A on Campus Drive. The actual ramp "Case" shall 
be identified on the plans and shall be to the approval of the City Engineer.
 
(G)     CURB AND GUTTER - The applicant shall replace to existing City standards all curb 
and gutter surrounding the project sites. New curb and gutter shall be constructed per 
City Standard Drawing 3-1-141A. At the time of the planning application was filed, a 
minimum of one thousand five hundred and forty four (1,544) linear feet of curb and 
gutter will need to be replaced. In addition, the applicant shall replace to existing City 
Standards curb and gutter on Parcel B of the Peninsula Office Park Subdivision Map 
(Volume 78 of Maps Pages 32 & 33). New curb and gutter on Parcel B shall be 
constructed per City Standard 3-1-141B. At the time the planning application was filed, 
a minimum of three hundred and sixty two (362) linear feet of curb and gutter will 
need to be replaced. This figure is provided only to determine minimum bonding 
requirements for the encroachment permit.
(H)     DRIVEWAY APPROACHES - The applicant shall install four (4) City Standard 
Commercial grade driveway approaches as shown on the approved plans. The new 
driveway approaches shall be constructed per City Standard Drawing 3-1-148 within 
the planter strip area only.

--- page 35 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 16 of 42
(I)     SEWER LATERAL - The applicant shall install as a minimum four (4) six (6) inch City 
Standard sewer lateral connection from the property line to the sewer main located in 
the street right of way. The installation shall be done in accordance with City Standard 
Drawing 3-1-101.
(J) STORM MANHOLES - The applicant shall install four (4) standard storm manholes 
on Campus Drive, per the approved plans to the maximum extent possible and in 
accordance with City Standard Drawings. The actual Standard Drawing shall be 
identified on the plans and shall be to the approval of the City Engineer.
(K) STORM MAIN - The applicant shall abandon and install new segments of storm 
main per the approved plans to the maximum extent possible. The applicant shall 
abandon the storm main between existing City catch basin CB 23F:03 to a proposed 
City manhole and between existing City manholes MH23G:01 to MH23G:03. The 
applicant shall abandon the existing storm segments in place and filled with slurry, or 
as approved by the City Engineer. The applicant shall install a proposed storm main 
between existing City manhole MH 23F:18 to a proposed City manhole and between 
existing City manholes MH23G:01 to MH23G:03, or as approved by the City Engineer. 
The new storm lines shall be RCP, or other material as approved by the City Engineer. 
Design drawings shall be prepared by a licensed Civil Engineer, and subject to review 
and approval by the City Engineer or his/her designee.
(L) GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE - In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 
7.39, applicant shall install and maintain green infrastructure (GI) improvements in the 
Public sidewalk planter area, including interceptor trees, tree wells and a drainage 
system (e.g. curb cuts, underdrain/storm lines, overflow catch basins, and cleanouts) 
per the approved Planning Application plans to the maximum extent possible. The 
improvements shall be in accordance with the guidance and specifications provided by 
the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program, the City of San Mateo 
GI Plan, or as approved by the City Engineer. Drainage capacity calculations shall be 
performed by a licensed Civil Engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp shall appear on 
the calculations sheets, and shall be submitted to the City for review and approval with 
the project Civil Plans. The owners are responsible for the operation and maintenance 
set forth in the Stormwater Management Facilities Maintenance Agreement.

--- page 36 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 17 of 42
(M)STREET LIGHTS - STREETLIGHTS/PHOTOMETRIC ANALYSIS - The applicant shall 
submit a photometric analysis showing the installation and/or, if approved by the 
Public Works Director or designee in his or her sole discretion, relocation of streetlight 
poles and luminaires, to meet the required levels shown below as recommended by 
the Illuminating Engineering Society (IES) Illuminance Method. The photometric plan 
shall include point-by-point lighting levels in foot-candles for the entire right-of-way 
immediately adjacent to the project, starting at the property line.
The analysis shall cover three main analysis zones (AZ) the roadway, sidewalk and 
traffic intersections, and may require other zones if applicable. Roadway analysis shall 
include the entire roadway width from face of curb to face of curb. The sidewalk 
analysis shall start at the back of walk to the face of curb along the project frontages, 
and the sidewalk analysis will not include the sidewalk across the roadway. The traffic 
intersection shall include the entire roadway up to the end of each curb return, on 
each approach. Each AZ, shall show calculation
data such as average, maximum, minimum, uniformity ratio (avg./min) in foot-candle 
and the number of points. Each AZ shall be clearly label and
calculations shall be presented in a legible and concise manner. The Light Loss Factor 
(LLF) used for this analysis shall be .803. A pole and luminaire schedule shall be 
included in the photometric analysis showing the mounting height (MH), mast arm 
length (MA) and luminaire type. The selected specifications for the new fixtures used 
for the analysis shall be provided by the City as per the latest City Standard to meet 
latest greenhouse gas emissions reduction goals. Once the photometric analysis has 
been completed, the developer shall furnish (which includes relocating the streetlight 
poles if approved per above) and install the streetlight improvements in accordance 
with the recommendations ofthe photometric analysis. If the analysis recommends 
new lighting fixtures on the right of way opposite the project frontage for the roadway 
analysis, the project will install the lighting. If the photometric analysis shows that no 
additional street lighting is necessary, the developer at a minimum will upgrade the 
existing streetlight infrastructure along the property frontages to the latest City 
standard or directed by the City Engineer along the project frontages.
The applicant shall also submit a full streetlight and electrical plan showing the existing 
streetlight infrastructure and proposed streetlight infrastructure as dictated by the 
photometric analysis. The streetlight and electrical plan shall show all electrical 
conduits, pull boxes, service connections, fuse holders, bus

--- page 37 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 18 of 42
fuses and all other electrical components necessary to construct the improvements. It 
is the developer’s responsibility to coordinate with PG&E to get the necessary power 
to these new improvements. If power is to be tapped into an existing streetlight circuit, 
voltage drop calculations shall be included in the plans. All fees, permits and dues 
associated with these improvements will be paid for by the developer.
The photometric analysis shall use the following criteria:
PROJECT LIGHTING DESIGN CRITERIA  
IES Table 11-1 Lighting Design Criteria for Streets 
Campus Drive Roadway: Collector - Medium Pedestrian Conflict 
 
IES Table 16-2 Recommended Values for Medium Pedestrian Activity Areas 
Campus Drive –Sidewalks and Bicycle Lanes: Medium Pedestrian Conflict  (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
 50 PARKING - The applicant shall submit plans for all required off street parking showing 
proper grading, drainage, ramps profile, and parking dimensions in conformance with 
City parking standards. The plans shall be approved by the City Engineer prior to the 
issuance of the Superstructure Building permit. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 51 PERMITS REQUIRED BY OTHER AGENCIES -  The applicant shall obtain all required 
permits from other agencies. If project is within jurisdiction of another agency, 
verification of permit or waiver of permit must be given to the Public Works 
Department prior to issuance of any required City permits. If the City is required to be 
a party of to the permit application and a fee is required, the applicant shall reimburse 
the City for it’s cost. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 52 SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT FOR GRADING - The applicant shall obtain a site 
development permit from the Public Works Department for hillside grading. The 
applicant shall submit to Public Works, for review with the building permit application 
and construction plans, a site grading and drainage plan prepared by a registered Civil 
Engineer with all supporting data, including hydraulic calculations, in accordance with 
requirements of the City's Site Development Code (SMMC 23.40).
The grading and drainage plan shall also comply with the recommendations of the 
Soils/Geotechnical Report.

--- page 38 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 19 of 42
The applicant shall submit a letter addressed to the Public Works Department 
stamped, signed, and dated from the Geotechnical Engineer who prepared the soil 
investigation concluding the following: 
(A) The Civil plans and specifications substantially conform to the recommendations in 
the soil investigation, including earthwork, grading, and drainage recommendations for 
long-term slope stability, and slope stability during construction.
(B) The Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared the soil investigation 
will provide soil site observation and provide periodic and final reports to the City of 
San Mateo.
(C) Upon review of the final grading plan, confirming that there is no adverse impact 
upon health and safety per Government Code 65915(e)(1) associated with hillside 
grading on slopes greater than 25%, per the Density Bonus Waivers used for Municipal 
Code Sections 23.40.050 (c)(2)&(3) and 26.20.110.
Prior to final inspection for any building or structure, the Geotechnical Engineer who 
prepared the soil investigation shall re-affirm conclusions stating the grading and 
drainage work substantially conform to the approved plans, specifications and 
investigations.
A deposit and non-refundable fee shall be submitted by the applicant based upon the 
Comprehensive Fee Schedule, established by the City Council, in effect at the time the 
building permit application is made. Using the current Comprehensive Fee Schedule, 
the site development permit fee for this project will be $39.00 and the deposit is 
calculated to be $30,650.00. Public Works plan checking of the site grading and 
drainage plans submitted with the building permit plans cannot proceed until fee and 
deposit are paid. The applicant shall be required to increase the deposit or be billed 
monthly at the discretion of the City for any costs in excess of the deposit. If billed 
monthly, invoices shall not become delinquent (must be paid within 30 days of 
receipt). Prior to final occupancy, the bill shall be paid in full. The City will refund any 
portion of the deposit not utilized. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 53 CLEAN, INSPECT AND REPAIR SANITARY SEWER - The applicant shall clean and inspect 
(via remote TV camera) the mainline sewer from the manhole upstream to the 
manhole downstream of the project lateral connection (MH 426:06X to MH

--- page 39 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 20 of 42
426:05X, MH426:05X to 426:01X, 426:02X to 426:03X, and 426:03X to 447:08X). The 
video inspection shall be done by a professional sanitary sewer video inspection 
company, to City standards, and be completed prior to building permit issuance. If any 
repairs are required to accommodate this project’s flows prior to project 
implementation as determined by the Public Works Director or his or her designee in 
the City’s discretion, the required repairs (spray foam-RazoRooter or flushing, or 
removal of roots, or replacement), as determined by the Public Works Department, 
shall appear on the improvement plans submitted by the applicant for permit plan 
check. All necessary repairs to the sewer shall be completed and approved prior to 
connection of the project lateral to the sewer. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 54 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES - The building permit application plans shall show the 
installation of all new, and upgraded, utility service, including telephone, electric 
power, and other communications lines underground to the building in accordance 
with City of San Mateo Municipal Code 26.32.020.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
 55 TRASH CAPTURE DEVICES – The applicant shall install trash capture devices in all storm 
drain inlets around the exterior frontages that lead directly to the off-site storm drain 
system.  Locations of devices are along the Campus Drive frontages within private 
property. Devices shall be approved by the City Engineer or his/her designee. Trash 
capture devices are required on site consistent with the State Water Resources Control 
Board definition of Full Capture System. All on-site trash capture devices shall be 
cleaned routinely and maintained by the developer or occupant per the Stormwater 
Management Facilities Maintenance Agreement.  The building permit application plans 
shall show trash capture devices. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 56 SUBDIVISION (FINAL) MAP - The applicant shall record a Subdivision Map (Final Map), 
or multiple Final Maps per Government Code 66456.1, prepared by a person 
authorized to practice land surveying in California, delineating all parcels created or 
deleted and all changes in lot lines in conformance with San Mateo Municipal Code 
Section 26.52. 
Both the Final Map(s) and the project conditions covenants and restrictions shall state 
that the Common Open Space Easements shall not be re-subdivided or developed in 
perpetuity. This language shall be reviewed and approved by the City Engineer and the 
City Attorney.
Each Final Map shall be approved by the Department of Public Works and recorded by 
the County Recorder’s Office prior to the issuance of the first

--- page 40 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 21 of 42
building permit for each phase. In addition, the Director of Public Works shall approve 
the sequence of multiple Final Maps, including but not limited to, access, easements, 
and public improvements that are required with each Final Map.
A map guarantee shall be submitted to the City, by the applicant’s title company, prior 
to release of each Final Map to the title company for recordation. Prior to the City’s 
release of each Final Map to the title company, the applicant may, at the discretion of 
the City Engineer, be required to submit to the City an electronic copy of the map in 
the AutoCAD Version being used by the City at the time of recordation. The applicant 
shall confirm with their title company and the County Recorder’s Office to determine 
the time necessary to have the map recorded after City approval. (PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be addressed on the construction plans submitted for A BUILDING 
PERMIT FOR THE SUPERSTRUCTURE and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of this permit, or if 
another deadline is specified in a condition, at that time.
Fire Department (PA)
 57 EMERGENCY VEHICLE ACCESS LANE - The existing emergency vehicle access (EVA) lane 
connecting Campus Drive to 26th Avenue shall remain an EVA lane under this project. 
The existing EVA lane shall be widened to 20 feet and equipped with a 14-foot drive 
aisle, a single one-foot rolled curb, and a single five-foot sidewalk. A 20-foot gate shall 
be installed across the roadway and equipped with a Fire Knox lock or other equivalent 
means. (FIRE)
 58 CONSTRUCTION TYPE 7A - The buildings highlighted in the diagram on sheet 1.1 in the 
approved planning application project plans are required to be of 2019 CBC Chapter 7A 
construction type. (FIRE)
 59 FIRE ALARM- A fire alarm system complying with 2019 CFC Chapter 9 shall be installed 
throughout the four story townhome over flats buildings. (FIRE)
Planning Division (PA)
 60 * MM NOI-1.2 - Mechanical equipment shall be selected and designed to reduce 
impacts on surrounding uses to meet the City’s Noise Ordinance. A qualified acoustical 
consultant shall be retained to review mechanical noise as these systems are selected 
to determine the specific noise reduction measures necessary, if any, to reduce noise 
to comply with the City’s Noise Ordinance. Noise reduction measures shall include, but 
are not limited to, selection of

--- page 41 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 22 of 42
equipment that emits low noise levels and the installation of noise barriers, such as 
enclosures or parapet walls to block the line-of-sight between the noise source and the 
nearest receptors. Verification of review by an acoustical consultant, and any noise 
reduction measures to be implemented, shall be provided to the Planning Division 
prior to issuance of building permits for the superstructure. (PLANNING)
Police Department (PA)
 61 SECURED BUILDING ACCESS BY EMERGENCY PERSONNEL - If locked gates or doors are 
installed restricting emergency responder access to residential units, then the building 
permit plans for the superstructure shall show the detailed specifications for and the 
installation of telephone entry pads (TEPs) and/or wireless “click to enter” systems at 
the main exterior building entrance(s) and parking garage entrance(s) for secured 
buildings.  These access systems must allow emergency personnel to access all levels of 
the interior of the building. The access systems must also be installed at exterior gate 
locations that lead to secured areas of the site, such as interior courtyards.  Access 
system placement location is subject to the review and approval of the Chief of Police 
or his/her designee, prior to the approval of the first building permit for the project. 
Police access codes shall be as provided by the Chief of Police or his/her designee at 
the time of installation. (POLICE)
Public Works Department (PA)
 62 CAMPUS DRIVE RE-STRIPING PLAN - The applicant shall implement roadway re-striping, 
pavement markings, signage and Class II bike lanes on both sides of Campus Drive from 
the Laurelwood Shopping Center to the roundabout at the end of Campus Drive. 
The design drawings shall be prepared by a licensed Civil Engineer and shall match the 
approved planning application plans to the maximum extent possible. The final design 
shall be determined during the building permit phase and subject to review and 
approval by the City Engineer, submitted with the superstructure building permit. 
In addition, the project licensed Civil Engineer shall prepare an interim striping plan to 
cover the period of time during which the Southern Site is complete, and the Northern 
Site is incomplete. The interim striping plan shall be submitted with the superstructure 
building permit of the Southern Site, and subject to review

--- page 42 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 23 of 42
and approval by the City Engineer. 
The Campus Drive Re-Striping Plan and interim striping plan shall be implemented per 
the phasing plan, or as allowed by the City Engineer. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 63 SOUTH TRUNK AREA SEWER IMPROVEMENT FEE - In order to meet the increased 
demands on the South Trunk Sewer system created by this project, the applicant shall, 
subject to credits as set forth in the Fee Schedule, contribute fees toward the 
construction cost to increase its capacity based upon the project’s average projected 
sanitary flow. The fee amount will be based upon the City Council resolution in effect 
at the time of superstructure building permit issuance. The fee shall be collected by the 
Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of each superstructure building 
permit. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 64 TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE - The applicant shall pay the City’s 
transportation improvement fee in accordance with the fee schedule. A credit shall be 
provided for trips attributed to the demolished buildings, per the fee schedule. The fee 
amount will be based upon the City Council resolution in effect at the time of building 
permit issuance. The fee shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid 
prior to issuance of the first superstructure building permit. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 65 PARK IN-LIEU/IMPACT FEES - The applicant shall pay a park fee in-lieu of dedication of 
lands for park and recreation purposes (park in-lieu fee) (SMMC Chapter 26.64). The 
final fee, including credits for any on-site improvements, shall be determined and paid 
prior to the issuance of the first building permit within a phased final map.  (PUBLIC 
WORKS).
 66 WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT  PHASE II IMPACT FEE - In order to meet the 
increased demands on the Wastewater Treatment Plant created by this project, the 
applicant shall contribute fees toward the Plant expansion based upon the net increase 
of projected sanitary flow, as determined under the City Council resolution in effect at 
the time of building permit issuance. The fee shall be collected by the Public Works 
Department and paid prior to issuance of each superstructure building permit. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
 67 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN - The project shall comply with all City of San 
Mateo’s ordinances, policies, and processes regarding the post-construction treatment 
of stormwater runoff. Specifically, a Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP) will be 
developed, prior to issuance of building permits for project construction, to ensure 
compliance with City of San Mateo and Municipal

--- page 43 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 24 of 42
Regional Permit (MRP) requirements. The SWMP will meet the criteria for stormwater 
protection outlined in the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program 
C.3 Stormwater Technical Guidance. (PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, or 
ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, whichever occurs first, or if another deadline is 
specified in a condition, at that time.
Building Division (PA)
 68 ART IN PUBLIC PLACES – The applicant shall be required to comply with Section 23.60 
of the San Mateo Municipal Code for Art in Public Places.  Applicability is determined 
based on the valuation of all construction for the project at time of building permit 
issuance; this will be a cumulative total for all structures within the project.  Section 
23.60.060 details the allowable methods of compliance, generally described to include 
the installation of Civic Arts Committee approved artwork to the satisfaction of the 
Community Development Director, or payment of a fee in lieu of placement of public 
art, or a combination thereof in an amount that is equal one-half of one percent of the 
total building valuation, excluding land acquisition and off-site improvement costs.  
The in-lieu fee shall be paid into the Art in Public Places Fund. This condition shall be 
met in accordance with Section 23.60.050 prior to the issuance of a Certificate of 
Occupancy. (BUILDING)
Fire Department (PA)
 69 ROADWAY LOAD CAPACITY AND DESIGN - The applicant shall submit a letter from a 
certified soils or geotechnical engineer stating the final roadway within the project is 
able to support a load of 68,000 pounds. The letter shall be submitted to the Fire 
Marshal or his/her designee for review and approval prior to the final inspection. (FIRE)
Parks and Recreation Department (PA)
 70 FINAL SITE INSPECTION BY PROJECT ARBORIST - The Project Arborist is to conduct a 
final tree inventory and submit his/her findings in a letter with photographs to the 
Planning Division to verify the status of protected trees. Protected trees that were 
damaged or removed are to be noted on the inventory chart that includes their LU 
values that were calculated prior to the commencement of construction operations. 
The monetary LU value of protected trees that were damaged or removed is payable 
to City of San Mateo General Tree Fund. (PARKS AND RECREATION)

--- page 44 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 25 of 42
Planning Division (PA)
 71 LETTER OF ARCHITECTURAL COMPLIANCE – The designer or architect of record shall 
submit a stamped and signed letter of compliance that the construction is consistent 
with the approved building permit plans, prior to scheduling the final Planning Division 
inspection. This condition shall be met prior to the release of utilities, final inspection, 
or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first. (PLANNING)
 72 VERIFICATION OF LANDSCAPE INSTALLATION – The applicant shall submit a letter 
prepared by the project landscape architect stating that all landscape improvements 
(including trees, shrubs, and irrigation systems) have been installed in compliance with 
the approved landscape plans submitted to the City for construction. This condition 
shall be met prior to the release of utilities, final inspection, or issuance of a certificate 
of occupancy, whichever occurs first. (PLANNING)
 73 VERIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH ACOUSTICAL ANALYSIS – The applicant shall 
submit a letter prepared by the person/firm who prepared the acoustical analysis for 
the project, verifying that the project will comply with the noise requirements 
contained in the City’s General Plan and setting forth the recommendations of the 
acoustical analysis implemented to achieve such compliance.  This condition shall be 
met prior to the release of utilities, final inspection, or issuance of a certificate of 
occupancy, whichever occurs first. (PLANNING)
 74 PLANNING DIVISION INSPECTIONS – The applicant shall notify the project planner for 
inspections related to construction of all structures, landscaping, and other site 
improvements. The notification request shall be given at least 72 hours prior to the 
requested time for inspection.  (PLANNING)
 75 FINANCIAL SECURITIES FOR ONSITE PRIVATE LANDSCAPING  - If any portion of on-site 
landscape improvements are to be installed after the final Planning Division inspection, 
the applicant shall submit a cost estimate and financial securities in a form and amount 
satisfactory to the Planning Manager and/or Zoning Administrator sufficient to ensure 
the installation of all approved on-site private landscape improvements including all 
new trees after the final Planning Division inspection per phase of development. The 
applicant shall request a follow-up inspection by the Planning Division in accordance 
with Section 27.71.060 of the Municipal Code in order to reclaim financial securities for 
landscaping for such phase. This condition shall be met prior to the release of utilities, 
final inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever

--- page 45 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 26 of 42
occurs first per phase of development.  (PLANNING)
Police Department (PA)
 76 PRIVATELY-OWNED PUBLIC OPEN SPACES, COVENANTS, CONDITIONS & RESTRICTIONS 
AND RULES - Prior to release  of utilities the applicant shall submit for approval by the 
City including the Chief of Police or his/her designee draft Covenants, Conditions & 
Restrictions (CC&Rs) and Rules applicable to the proposed privately-owned public open 
spaces.  CC&Rs and Rules related to the public open spaces shall be subject to annual 
review by the City and Chief of Police or her/his designee.  City approved CC&Rs and 
Rules related to the public open spaces shall be subject to annual review, and shall be 
maintained and enforced by the applicant and any successor association or entity 
responsible for the maintenance of any public open spaces. (POLICE)
 77 PRIVATELY-OWNED PUBLIC OPEN SPACES, REQUIRED SIGNAGE - Prior to release of 
utilities the applicant shall submit for approval by the City including the Chief of Police 
or her/his designee a plan showing the locations of signage designating which spaces 
are public open spaces and which areas are to remain restricted for the use of 
development residents.  The plan submitted for approval shall include proposed 
language designating the different spaces, and any applicable CC&Rs and Rules people 
using the public open spaces shall be required to conform to while on the public open 
spaces. Approved signs shall be installed and maintained with at all times that the use 
permitted by this planning application occupies the premises.  (POLICE)
 78 PRIVATELY-OWNED PUBLIC OPEN SPACES, DESIGNATION - Prior to the first of the 
following to occur: Release of Utilities, Final Inspection, or Issuance of a Certificate of 
Occupancy, the applicant shall submit for approval a plan showing which spaces are 
proposed to be privately-owned public open spaces (POPOS) and which are intended 
to remain restricted for the use of development residents. (POLICE)
Public Works Department (PA)
 79 RESTORATION OF ROADWAY – Due to the anticipated project’s truck traffic the 
applicant shall grind and overlay with 2.5 inches of asphalt concrete the roadways 
anticipated to be damaged as a result of construction activities in accordance with the 
phasing plan. The applicant will survey the existing street prior to construction 
commencing and after completion.  If project construction causes the street, in the 
areas shown on the phasing plan, to be classified as being in a

--- page 46 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 27 of 42
failed condition of a Pavement Condition Index (PCI) of 50 or below, the applicant shall 
reconstruct the street. Limits of the roadway repair shall be, at minimum, Campus 
Drive for the entire width and length of the roadway along the project frontages and 
on Parcel B of the Peninsula Office Park Subdivision Map (Volume 78 of Maps Pages 32 
& 33), as approved by the City Engineer. The City Engineer shall approve the roadway 
repair prior to the release of utilities, final inspection, or issuance of a certificate of 
occupancy, whichever occurs first
 80 RESTORATION OF PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY - The applicant shall repair or replace the 
Public Right-of-Way damaged or removed as a result of construction operations. Public 
Right-of-Way damaged such as, but not limited to, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, driveways, 
pavements, raised pavement markers, thermoplastic pavement markings, or signs shall 
be repaired and replaced to a condition equal to or better than the original condition. 
Public Right-of-Way to be repaired or replaced shall be at the direction of the Public 
Works Inspector.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
 81 PERFORMANCE BOND FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS OF THE NORTH SITE – The 
applicant shall provide a performance bond or other surety that guarantees 
commencement of construction of the public improvements associated with the North 
site in the phasing plan within 24 months of the first certificate of occupancy of the 
South Site, and completion of such improvements within 12 months after 
commencement. The deadlines for commencement and completion of the 
improvements may, upon applicant’s request, be amended by the Director of Public 
Works in her/his sole discretion.  The required surety shall be submitted to the Public 
Works Department prior to issuance of the first certificate of occupancy of the South 
Site, and subject to review and approval by the Director of Public Works or designee, 
and the City Attorney’s office. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 82 TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT PROGRAM – A Transportation Demand 
Management (TDM) Program has been prepared for this project (refer to the final 
Peninsula Heights TDM Plan, prepared by Steer).  It is anticipated that property 
management will continue to modify and refine the TDM program over time to best 
achieve the trip reduction target, address market conditions, and respond to tenant 
needs, which may include TDM measures not currently listed in the TDM plan when 
they may be found to be more effective in reducing vehicle trips. A written letter to the 
Public Works Director on an annual basis will include an assessment of compliance 
with the Transportation Management Plan, including mode split survey results, by the 
end of the calendar year (December 31st). (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 47 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 28 of 42
 83 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FACILITIES MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT – The applicant 
shall execute a maintenance agreement with the City’s Director of Public Works as 
specified in Chapter 7.39.210-230 of the Stormwater Management and Discharge 
Control ordinance.  The agreement shall outline the operation and maintenance 
(O&M) plan for the permanent stormwater treatment facilities both on-site and in the 
Public Right-of-Way (Green Infrastructure) and designate the applicant or property 
owners as the responsible party for O&M.  The agreement shall be approved by the 
Director of Public Works, notarized by both parties, and recorded at the County of San 
Mateo Recorder’s office. This agreement shall be recorded prior to the first occupancy 
of the building. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 84 RECORD DRAWINGS - The applicant shall submit one full set of original record drawings 
and construction specifications for all off-site improvements to the Department of 
Public Works.  All underground facilities shall be shown on the record drawings as 
constructed in the field.  The applicant shall also provide the City with an electronic 
copy of the as-builts in the AutoCAD Version being used by the City at the time of 
completion of the work. This condition shall be met prior to the release of utilities, 
final inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first.  
(PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be met prior to the approval of the FINAL MAP or PARCEL MAP, or 
if another deadline is specified in a condition, at that time.
Planning Division (PA)
 85 CONDITIONS, COVENANTS, AND RESTRICTIONS (CC&R's) – The applicant shall obtain 
the City Attorney's approval of the draft Conditions, Covenants, and Restrictions 
governing the subdivision for consistency with these Conditions of Approval prior to 
recordation of final map.  (PLANNING)
Public Works Department (PA)
 86 SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT – If the applicant wishes to have the final 
project map approved prior to the completion of the project’s public improvements, 
the applicant shall enter into a subdivision improvement agreement with the City per 
Gov. Code Section 66462(a), and shall arrange to provide security for the remaining 
public improvements to be completed. The timing for the completion of public 
improvements associated with the North site in the phasing plan shall be consistent 
with the timing specified in Public Works

--- page 48 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 29 of 42
Condition of Approval labeled “PERFORMANCE BOND FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS OF 
THE NORTH SITE”. The agreement will be forwarded to the City Council for approval 
with each final map. Multiple final maps shall require an agreement with each map. 
(PUBLIC WORKS)
 87 DEDICATIONS - Through each Final Map, the applicant or owner shall dedicate Public 
Utility Easements for utilities, Public Access Easements for access to privately-owned 
publicly accessible open space, and Emergency Vehicle Access Easements for 
emergency vehicle access and use, as shown on the tentative map to the maximum 
extent possible. 
Within the project, all on-site storm and sewer utilities, public access easements areas, 
privately-owned publicly accessible open space, emergency vehicle access easements 
areas, streets, alleys, and sidewalks shall be privately owned and maintained by the 
applicant or owner(s). (PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION 
PHASE OF THE PROJECT, or if another deadline is specified in a condition, at that time.
Building Division (PA)
 88 * MM HAZ-2 - To reduce the potential for construction worker and nearby sensitive 
receptor exposure to hazardous materials (ACMs and lead-based paint), the following 
measures shall be incorporated at all times during the construction of the project: 
•
In conformance with local, state, and federal laws, an asbestos building survey and 
a lead-based paint survey shall be completed by a qualified professional to determine 
the presence of ACMs and/or lead-based paint on the structures proposed for 
demolition prior to issuance of a demolition permit for any site structure.
•
A registered asbestos abatement contractor shall be retained to remove and 
dispose of all potentially friable asbestos-containing materials, in accordance with the 
NESHAP guidelines, prior to building demolition that may disturb the materials. All 
construction activities shall be undertaken in accordance with Cal/OSHA standards, 
contained in Title 8 of the California Code of Regulations (CCR), Section 1529, to 
protect workers from exposure to asbestos. Materials containing more than one 
percent asbestos are also subject to BAAQMD regulations.

--- page 49 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 30 of 42
•
During demolition activities, all building materials containing lead-based paint shall 
be removed in accordance with Cal/OSHA Lead in Construction Standard, Title 8, CCR 
1532.1, including employee training, employee air monitoring and dust control. Any 
debris or soil containing lead-based paint or coatings shall be disposed of at landfills 
that meet acceptance criteria for the waste being disposed.
•
As required under the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), all building materials 
containing PCBs at levels greater than 50 parts per million (ppm) must be removed 
upon discovery. If demolition is likely to impact such materials, they must be properly 
characterized and removed in accordance with TSCA regulations.
(BUILDING)
 89 * MM NOI-1.1 - Modification, placement, and operation of construction equipment are 
possible means for minimizing the impact of construction noise on existing sensitive 
receptors. Construction equipment should be well-maintained and used judiciously to 
be as quiet as possible. Additionally, construction activities for the project should 
include the following best management practices to reduce noise at sensitive land 
uses:
•
Construction activities, including truck traffic to and from the site, shall be limited 
to the hours between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, Saturdays 
between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., and Sundays and holidays between 12:00 p.m. and 
4:00 p.m., in accordance with the City’s Municipal Code, unless permission is granted 
with a development permit or other planning approval. Work in the public right-of-way 
shall be restricted to the weekdays. No work shall be allowed to take place within the 
public right-of-way after 5:00 p.m. Earth haul and materials delivery to and from the 
site, including truck arrivals and departures to and from the site, will be prohibited 
between the weekday hours of 4:00 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. Signs outlining these restrictions 
shall be posted at conspicuous locations on-site.
•
Construction staging areas shall be established at locations that will create the 
greatest distance between the construction-related noise sources and noise-sensitive 
receptors nearest the project site during all project construction.
•
Use of exceptionally loud equipment such as jackhammers and concrete saws

--- page 50 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 31 of 42
within 35 feet of shared property lines shall be limited, as feasible.
•
Equip all internal combustion engine-driven equipment with intake and exhaust 
mufflers that are in good condition and appropriate for the equipment. 
•
Unnecessary idling of internal combustion engines should be strictly prohibited.
•
Locate stationary noise-generating equipment, such as air compressors or portable 
power generators, as far as possible from sensitive receptors and property lines. If they 
must be located within 35 feet of receptors and property lines, adequate muffling 
(with barriers or enclosures where feasible and appropriate) shall be used to reduce 
noise levels at the adjacent sensitive receptors. 
•
Utilize “quiet” air compressors and other stationary noise sources where 
technology exists.
•
Control noise from construction workers’ radios to a point where they are not 
audile at existing residences bordering the project site.
•
The contract shall prepare a detailed construction plan identifying the schedule for 
major noise-generating construction activities. The construction plan shall identify a 
procedure for coordination with adjacent residential land uses so that construction 
activities can be scheduled to minimize noise disturbance. 
•
Designate a “disturbance coordinator” who would be responsible for responding to 
any complaints about construction noise and vibrations during demolition and 
construction activities. The disturbance coordinator will determine the cause of the 
noise and vibrations complaints (e.g., bad muffler, etc.) and will require that 
reasonable measures be implemented to correct the problem. Conspicuously post a 
telephone number for the disturbance coordinator at the construction site and include 
it in the notice sent to neighbors regarding the construction schedule. 
(BUILDING)
 90 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES - The following provision to control traffic 
congestion, noise, and dust shall be followed during site excavation, grading and 
construction:

--- page 51 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 32 of 42
Work hours regulated by the San Mateo Municipal Code 23.06.060 shall only be 
permitted between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, 
between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on Saturday, and between 12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m. 
on Sundays and holidays. These hours do not apply to construction work that takes 
place inside a completely enclosed building and does not exceed the exterior ambient 
noise level as measured 10 feet from the exterior property lines.
The allowed hours of Building construction activities may be waived or modified 
through an exemption from the hours of work designated in Section 23.06.060 of the 
San Mateo Municipal Code, for limited periods, if the Building Official finds that:
(1) As a condition of approval of a planning application issued pursuant to Title 26 or 
Title 27; or
(2) Upon written application to the Building Official. The Building Official may approve 
such application in his or her sole discretion for emergency situations or exceptional 
circumstances beyond the control of the applicant. An application shall contain any 
information required by the Building Official, including, but not limited to the type of 
work to be performed, the equipment to be used, the date(s) and time(s) for the 
proposed hours of work, and the reason(s) therefore.
(a) The approved hours of construction activity shall be posted at the construction site 
in a place and manner that can be easily viewed by an interested member of the 
public.
(b) The building official may revoke an exemption at any time if the contractor or 
owner of the property fails to abide by the conditions of the exemption or if it is 
determined that the peace, comfort and tranquility of the occupants of adjacent 
residential or commercial properties are impaired because of the location and nature 
of the construction. (BUILDING)
Fire Department (PA)
 91 BARRICADES ACROSS EMERGENCY ACCESS ROADS - The installation or use of 
barricades, fences, or gates across emergency vehicle access roads during construction 
shall have prior approval of the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Chief,

--- page 52 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 33 of 42
or his/her designee.  (FIRE)
 92 DEMOLITION - Building(s) under construction or demolition shall comply with the 
California Fire Code Ch. 33 during all phases of construction of the project. (FIRE)
 93 ADDRESS NUMBERS - The applicant shall post temporary address numbers on each 
building at the project site that must be easily visible from the street or fire access road 
during all phases of construction of the project.   (FIRE)
Parks and Recreation Department (PA)
 94 TREE PROTECTION MEASURES - All required Tree Protection Measures shall remain in 
place and properly maintained during all phases of construction for any phase where 
construction has commenced.  The Contractor is to notify the Project Arborist in 
advance when construction operations are to be performed within the drip line of 
protected trees. (e.g. trenching, excavation, grade changes) Adjustment of Tree 
Protection Measures require approval from the Project Arborist.  (PARKS AND 
RECREATION)
Planning Division (PA)
 95 * MM CUL-2 - If any unanticipated prehistoric or significant historic period cultural 
materials are exposed during construction grading and/or excavation, operations shall 
stop within 50 feet of the find and a qualified professional archaeologist contacted for 
evaluation and further recommendations consistent with CEQA and City of San Mateo 
requirements. Potential recommendations could include evaluation, collection, 
recordation, analysis, etc. of any significant cultural materials followed by a 
professional report. (PLANNING)
 96 PALEONTOLOGICAL RESOURCES - Should any potentially unique paleontological 
resources (fossils) be encountered during development activities, work shall be halted 
immediately within 50 feet of the discovery. The City of San Mateo Planning Division 
shall be immediately notified, and the applicant shall be responsible for retaining the 
services of a qualified paleontologist to determine the significance of the discovery. 
The paleontologist shall evaluate the uniqueness of the find, and prepare a written 
report documenting the find and recommending further courses of action. Based on 
the significance of the discovery, the actions may include avoidance, preservation in 
place, excavation, documentation, recovery, or other appropriate measures as 
determined by the paleontologist. (PLANNING)
 97 * MM BIO-1.1 - Construction activities (or at least the commencement of such 
activities) shall be scheduled to avoid the nesting season. If construction activities

--- page 53 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 34 of 42
are scheduled to take place outside of the nesting season, all impacts on nesting birds 
protected under the MBTA and CDFW will be avoided. The nesting season for most 
birds in San Mateo County extends from February 1st through August 30th. 
MM BIO-1.2 - If it is not possible to schedule construction activities between 
September 1 and January 31 then preconstruction surveys for nesting birds shall be 
conducted by a qualified ornithologist to ensure that no nests will be disturbed during 
project implementation. These surveys shall be conducted no more than 14 days prior 
to the initiation of construction. During this survey, the ornithologist shall inspect all 
trees and other potential nesting habitats (e.g., trees, shrubs, ruderal grasslands, 
buildings) in and immediately adjacent to the impact areas for nests)
MM BIO-1.3 - If an active nest is found sufficiently close to work areas to be disturbed 
by these activities, the ornithologist shall determine the extent of a construction-free 
buffer zone to be established around the nest (typically 300 feet for raptors and 100 
feet for other species), to ensure that nests of species protected by the MBTA and 
CDFW shall not be disturbed during project implementation. However, if the 
ornithologist has confirmed that the hatchlings have left the nest, construction may 
commence within the buffer zone.
MM BIO-1.4 - If construction activities will not be initiated until after the start of the 
nesting season, all potential nesting substrates (e.g., bushes, trees, grasses, and other 
vegetation) that are scheduled to be removed by the project may be removed prior to 
the start of the nesting season (e.g., prior to February 1st).
(PLANNING)
 98 * MM CUL-3 - In the event that human remains are discovered during excavation 
and/or grading of the site, all activity within a 50-foot radius of the find shall be 
stopped. The San Mateo County Coroner shall be notified and make a determination as 
to whether the remains are of Native American origin or whether an investigation into 
the cause of death is required. If the remains are determined to be Native American, 
the Coroner will notify the Native American Heritage Commission (NAHC) immediately. 
Once the NAHC identifies the most likely descendants, the descendants will make 
recommendations regarding proper burial, which will be implemented in accordance 
with Section 15064.5(e) of the CEQA Guidelines. (PLANNING)

--- page 54 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 35 of 42
Public Works Department (PA)
 99 MATERIAL HAULING AND CONSTRUCTION WORKER PARKING - For material delivery 
vehicles equal to, or larger than two-axle, six-tire single unit truck (SU) size or larger as 
defined by FHWA Standards, the applicant shall submit a truck hauling route that 
conforms to City of San Mateo Municipal Code Section 11.28.040 for the approval of 
the City Engineer.  The project sponsor shall require contractors to prohibit trucks from 
using “compression release engine brakes” on residential streets.  The haul route for 
this project shall be the following, or as approved by the City Engineer:
- Highway 92 E or W to W. Hillsdale Blvd to Campus Drive to Project Site
- Project Site to Campus Drive to W. Hillsdale Blvd to Highway 92 E or W
A letter from the applicant confirming the intention to use this hauling route shall be 
submitted to the Department of Public Works, and approved, prior to the issuance of 
any City permits.  All material hauling activities including but not limited to, adherence 
to the approved route, hours of operation, staging of materials, dust control and street 
maintenance shall be the responsibility of the applicant.  All storage and office trailers 
will be kept off the public right-of-way.  Tracking of dirt onto City streets and walks will 
not be allowed.  The applicant must provide an approved method of cleaning tires and 
trimming loads on site.  Any job related dirt and/or debris that impacts the public right 
of way shall be removed immediately.  No wash down of dirt into storm drains will be 
allowed.  All material hauling activities shall be done in accordance with applicable City 
ordinances and conditions of approval.  Violation of such may be cause for suspension 
of work.  
The applicant shall provide a construction-parking plan that minimizes the effect of 
construction worker parking in the neighborhood and shall include an estimate of the 
number of workers that will be present on the site during the various phases of 
construction and indicate where sufficient off-street parking will be utilized and 
identify any locations for off-site material deliveries.  Said plan shall be approved by 
the City Engineer prior to issuance of City permits and shall be complied with at all 
times during construction.  Failure to enforce the parking plan may result in suspension 
of the City permits. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 100 PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES - The following provision to control traffic 
congestion, noise, and dust shall be followed during site excavation,

--- page 55 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 36 of 42
grading and construction:
(A)     Construction activities related to the issuance of any Public Works permit shall be 
restricted to the weekday between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.  Please note, however, 
that no work shall be allowed to take place within the City right-of-way after 5:00 p.m.  
In addition, no work being done under the issuance of a Public Works encroachment 
permit may be performed on the weekend unless prior approvals have been granted 
by Public Works.  Earth haul and materials delivery to and from the site, including truck 
arrivals and departures to and from the site, will be prohibited between the weekday 
hours of 4:00 p.m.   5:30 p.m.  Signs outlining these restrictions shall be posted at 
conspicuous locations on site.  The signs shall be per the City Standard Drawing for 
posting construction hours.  The sign shall be kept free of graffiti at all times.  Contact 
the Public Works Department to obtain sample City Standard sign outlining hours of 
operation.
The allowed hours of Public Works construction activities may be waived or modified 
through an exemption, for limited periods, if the City Engineer finds that:
(i)     The following criteria are met:
(a)     Permitting extended hours of construction will decrease the total time needed to 
complete the project thus mitigating the total amount of noise associated with the 
project as a whole; or
(b)     Permitting extended hours of construction are required to accommodate design 
or engineering requirements, such as a large concrete pour.  Such a need would be 
determined by the project's design engineer and require approval of the City Engineer. 
(c)     An emergency situation exists where the construction work is necessary to 
correct an unsafe or dangerous condition resulting in obvious and eminent peril to 
public health and safety.  If such a condition exists, the City may waive any of the 
remaining requirements outlined below.
(ii)     The exemption will not conflict with any other condition of approval required by 
the City to mitigate significant impacts.
(iii)     The contractor or owner of the property will notify residential and commercial 
occupants of property adjacent to the construction site of the hours of construction 
activity which may impact the area.  This notification must be provided three days 
prior to the start of the extended construction activity.
(iv)     The approved hours of construction activity will be posted at the

--- page 56 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 37 of 42
construction site in a place and manner that can be easily viewed by any interested 
member of the public.
The City Engineer may revoke the exemption at any time if the contractor or owner of 
the property fails to abide by the conditions of exemption or if it is determined that the 
peace, comfort and tranquility of the occupants of adjacent residential or commercial 
properties are impaired because of the location and nature of the construction.  The 
waiver application must be submitted to the Public Works Construction Inspector ten 
(10) working days prior to the requested date of waiver.
(B)     All construction vehicles should be properly maintained and equipped with 
exhaust mufflers that meet State standards.
(C)     Newly disturbed soil surfaces shall be watered down regularly by a water trucks 
or by other approved method maintained on site during all grading operations.  
Construction grading activity shall be discontinued in wind conditions that in the 
opinion of the Public Works Construction Inspector cause excessive neighborhood dust 
problems.  Wash down of dirt and debris into storm drain systems will not be allowed.
(D)     Construction activities shall be scheduled so that paving and foundation 
placement begin immediately upon completion of grading operation.
(E)     All aggregate materials transported to and from the site shall be covered in 
accordance with Section 23114 of the California Vehicle Code during transit to and 
from the site. 
(F)     Prior to issuance of any permit, the applicant shall submit any applicable 
pedestrian or traffic detour plans, to the satisfaction of the City Engineer, for any lane 
or sidewalk closures.  The detour plan shall comply with Part 6, Temporary Traffic 
Control, of the State of California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), 
2012, and standard construction practices.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
 101 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – The applicant shall perform all construction 
activities in accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge 
Control Rules and Regulations (SMMC 7.38.020), and the San Mateo Countywide 
Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SMCWPPP) by reference.  Detailed information can 
be located at: 
https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-stormwater-pollution/with-new-redevel

--- page 57 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 38 of 42
opment/construction-best-practices/ (PUBLIC WORKS)
 102 GROUNDWATER DISCHARGE - The project is not expected to encounter groundwater; 
however, groundwater levels at the site are relatively shallow and the project could 
require dewatering of subsurface groundwater during construction. If dewatering is 
necessary, the applicant shall discharge extracted groundwater to the storm drain in 
accordance with conditions of the Construction General Permit.  If there is no 
reasonable alternative method of disposal is available, in accordance with the City’s 
Municipal Code (SMMC 7.38.150), the Director of Public Works may approve the 
discharge of ground waters to the sanitary sewer if the source is deemed unacceptable 
by State and Federal authorities for discharge to surface waters of the United States, 
whether pretreated or untreated. Following the verification of the applicable local, 
state and/or federal approvals, a Discharge Plan will be approved and monitored by 
the Public Works Department. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 103 DUST CONTROL - The contractor shall implement the following measures to reduce 
fugitive dust-related impacts associated with grading and new construction:
• Water active construction areas at least twice daily or as often as needed to control 
dust emissions.
• Cover trucks transporting soil, sand, or other loose materials and/or ensure that all 
trucks hauling such materials maintain at least two feet of freeboard.
• Remove visible mud or dirt track-out onto adjacent public roads by using wet power 
vacuum street sweepers at least once per day. The use of dry power sweeping is 
prohibited.
• Enclose, cover, water twice daily or apply non-toxic soil binders to exposed stockpiles 
(dirt, sand, etc.).
• Pave new or improved roadways, driveways, and sidewalks as soon as possible.
• Lay building pads as soon as possible after grading unless seeding or soil binders are 
used.
• Replant vegetation in disturbed areas as quickly as possible.
• Install sandbags or other erosion control measures to prevent silt runoff to public 
roadways.
• Minimize idling times either by shutting off equipment when not in use, or reducing 
the maximum idling time to five minutes (as required by the California Airborne Toxics 
Control Measure Title 13, Section 2485 of California Code of Regulations). Provide clear 
signage for construction workers at all access points.

--- page 58 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 39 of 42
• Maintain and properly tune construction equipment in accordance with 
manufacturer’s specifications.
• Post a publicly visible sign with the telephone number and person to contact at the 
lead agency regarding dust complaints. (BUILDING/PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the use permitted by this 
planning application occupies the premises.
City Attorney (PA)
 104 PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.02.210-Violations 
of Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of the conditions of approval is 
unlawful and will subject the applicant to the penalties set forth in Chapter 
1.04-General Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal Code as well as any other available 
legal remedies.  (CITY ATTORNEY)
 105 INDEMNIFICATION – The applicant will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City 
of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and 
against any costs, claims, or liabilities arising out of the approval of this planning 
application, including, without limitation, any award of attorney fees that might result 
from third party challenge.  If applicant is required to defend the City, the City shall 
retain the right to select the counsel who shall defend the City.  (CITY ATTORNEY)
Planning Division (PA)
 106 CONFORMANCE WITH APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION AT ALL TIMES - All physical 
improvements, uses, and operational requirements authorized by the approved 
planning application shall substantially conform at all times that the use permitted by 
this planning application occupies the premises with the approved planning 
application, including:  plans, materials samples, building colors, the written project 
description, and other items submitted as part of the approved planning application. 
Any proposed modifications to the approved planning application must be reviewed by 
the Planning Manager and/or Zoning Administrator. The Planning Manager and/or 
Zoning Administrator shall determine whether the proposed modifications 
substantially conform with the approved planning application, or whether a planning 
application for a modification of a previously approved planning application is required 
to be submitted to permit the proposed project modifications, as required by San 
Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications. (PLANNING)

--- page 59 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 40 of 42
Police Department (PA)
 107 SITE LIGHTING STANDARDS- Exterior security lighting in compliance with the Building 
Security Code “Exterior Security Lighting” (San Mateo Municipal Code Section 
23.54.060) shall be provided and maintained at all times that the use permitted by this 
planning application occupies the premises. Site lighting shall comply with the 
requirement of an average illuminance of 1 foot-candle, a minimum illuminance of 0.3 
foot-candle, and a uniformity ratio not to exceed 4:1 average to minimum. Light 
sources shall be capable of producing a “bright white” light with a color temperature 
between 3000K and 4000K and a color rendering index (CRI) of at least 65 unless 
otherwise approved.  This lighting standard is applicable to all parking lots, driveways, 
circulation areas, aisles, passageways, recesses, and grounds contiguous to all 
buildings. The lighting system shall be so designed as to limit light spill beyond 
property lines and to shield the light source from view from off site.  (POLICE)
 108 PRIVATELY-OWNED PUBLIC OPEN SPACES, PRIVATE PATROL OPERATOR - PRIVATE 
PATROL OPERATOR - The applicant and any successor association or entity responsible 
for the maintenance of proposed public open spaces shall hire and retain a private 
patrol operator.  The private patrol operator shall be authorized by the applicant and 
any successor associations or entities to investigate and enforce any Covenants, 
Conditions & Restrictions and Rules, and shall be authorized to enforce trespass laws 
of the State of California and City of San Mateo.  The private patrol operator shall be 
responsible for the initial responses to nuisance complaints in the public open spaces 
related to violations of applicant or successor CC&Rs and Rules.  (POLICE)
 109 VIDEO SURVEILLANCE – The project shall install and operate for the life of the project a 
video surveillance system. The information shall be maintained for a minimum of 30 
days. The applicant shall provide proof of registration of the video surveillance camera 
system with the City through the City of San Mateo Security Camera Registration form 
available at https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/forms.aspx? FID=134).
The cameras in this system shall be megapixel or better CCTV cameras that shall be 
capable of operating in all lighting conditions anticipated at the project completion.  
Cameras viewing locations intended to allow routine vehicle passage onto the sites 
shall additionally be capable of capturing the front and rear of all entering and exiting 
vehicles that use the sites and be of sufficient quality to identify the make and model 
of vehicles accessing the site, clearly read both front

--- page 60 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 41 of 42
and rear license plates of vehicles, and obtain clear facial recognition through the front 
windshield.
The building permit application plans shall show cameras placed to view common 
areas of the property such as the POPOS, and vehicular and pedestrian access points to 
the site.  Additional cameras are encouraged to be placed through the site at the 
Applicant's discretion.  Camera placement shall take into account reasonable 
community privacy concerns and cameras shall not be required to capture residential 
private entrances.  This condition is not intended to require Applicant to install pole 
mount cameras on the property, cameras to view these areas may be installed on the 
buildings facing out.  This condition is not intended to create a duty for the applicant to 
actively monitor video from the required camera system.   (POLICE)
Public Works Department (PA)
 110 POST CONSTRUCTION BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – In accordance with the 
City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control Rules and Regulations (SMMC 
7.38.020), and the San Mateo Countywide Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP) by 
reference:
(A) Owner(s) of the Common Area shall inspect private storm drain facilities at least 
two (2) times per year and sweep parking lots immediately prior to and once during 
the storm season.
(B) Owner(s) of the Common Area shall pay a fee on a yearly basis for cost associated 
with, but not limited to, biannual inspection of the private storm drain facilities, 
emergency maintenance needed to protect public health or watercourses, and facility 
replacement or repair in the event that the treatment facility is no longer able to meet 
performance standards or has deteriorated.  The annual fee shall be in the amount of 
$261.00 with an annual increase, if necessary to recover the City’s costs of inspection, 
in the amount of any CPI increase. 
(C) Owner(s) of the Common Area shall label new and redeveloped storm drain inlets 
with the phrase “No Dumping – Drains to Bay” plaques to alert the public to the 
destination of storm water and to prevent direct discharge of pollutants into the storm 
drain.  Template ordering information is available from the Department of Public 
Works.
(D) All process equipment, oils fuels, solvents, coolants, fertilizers, pesticides, and

--- page 61 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-012, Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR + SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
As Approved on 12/08/2020
Page 42 of 42
similar chemical products, as well as petroleum based wastes, tallow, and grease 
planned for storage outdoors shall be stored in covered containers at all times. 
In addition, the project shall implement site design and source control BMPs for 
minimizing the volume of runoff and pollution in runoff to the extent practicable, per 
the Municipal Regional Permit (MRP). These BMPs may include the following:
•
Disconnected downspouts that are directed into landscape areas;
•
Minimization of impervious surfaces and increased use of permeable pavement 
where feasible;
•
Location of all storm drain inlets to be stenciled with, “No Dumping! Flows to Bay” 
to discourage illegal dumping;
•
Location and design of trash enclosures (all shall be covered) and materials 
handling areas; 
•
Use of effective, site-specific erosion and sediment control methods during 
post-construction periods. (PUBLIC WORKS)
* MITIGATION MEASURE ‐ This measure mitigates adverse environmental effects identified in the 
environmental document. Monitoring procedures are contained within the condition of approval. A 
change in the condition may affect the validity of the current environmental document, and a new or 
amended environmental document may be required.

--- page 62 ---
LOCATION MAP 
 
 
 
PA-2020-012 
PENINSULA HEIGHTS  
 
Address: 
2655, 2755, 2800 and 2988 Campus Drive 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Parcel Number: 
041-522-010 / 041-522-020 / 041-521-010 / 041-521-020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Site

--- page 63 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
JOB NO.
DATE
N
07-10-20
T.0
COVER SHEET
PENINSULA HEIGHTS
PLANNING APPLICATION

--- page 64 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
PROJECT DATA #1
1.0
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
SHEET INDEX:
Existing Site Conditions: 
The current site consists of four office buildings located at 2988, 2800, 2755, and 2655 Campus Drive in San Mateo spread 
across  15.45-acres. Located directly off Highway 92, the property is surrounded by existing residential, commercial, and 
office uses. 
Proposed Redevelopment:  
In obtaining a Special Use Permit to allow for low-density residential development,  the four existing office buildings 
would be replaced with 290 units of new housing including the creation of a vesting tentative parcel map, allowing for 
more entry level home-buying opportunities for residents of San Mateo. Offering a range of unit sizes, these 3-4 story 
for-sale townhomes and single family detached homes will display a blend of contemporary and traditional architectural 
forms and materials that blend cohesively with the surrounding neighborhood. The community will be arranged over 
two site areas; a Northern Parcel and a Southern Parcel. Each residence will have a two-car parking garage with private 
outdoor space via balconies and/or roof decks.
Complying with affordable housing requirements as outlined by the City of San Mateo, this project will designate 10% of 
the proposed units for low income households totaling 29 units and would qualify for benefits under the Density Bonus 
Law. These designated affordable units will also offer a range in sizes that include (7) 2-bedroom, (12) 3-bedroom, and (10) 
4-bedroom options.
Transportation Component and Amenities:
Harvest Properties has and will continue to work with local transit experts to implement a robust Transportation Demand 
Management (TDM) plan which includes emerging mobility initiatives. The developer has been engaging with key city 
and community stakeholders to promote a more connected transportation ecosystem that encourages alternative transit 
over vehicle ownership to take cars off the road. Peninsula Heights will help increase ridership for the existing dedicated 
Caltrain shuttle route that is currently at risk due to lack of use. This dedicated Caltrain shuttle will serve workers and 
residents.  
In total, Peninsula Heights will have 624 on-site parking spaces, as well as bicycle parking for residents and visitors 
alike. The redevelopment will promote a neutral, if not positive, impact on traffic congestion in the surrounding area as 
determined through initial traffic studies. 
Lastly, the applicant through collaboration with the San Mateo Fire Marshal and Planning Staff, it’s the project’s proposal 
to keep the existing emergency vehicle access (EVA) road connecting Campus Drive to 26th Ave as-is after project 
implementation.
Environmental Considerations:
Peninsula Heights has committed to sustainability by installing photovoltaics on roof decks, Energy Star appliances, and 
low-flow plumbing fixtures.
Community Benefits and Amenities:
Through strategic planning and design, Peninsula Heights offers amenities that benefit both future residents of the 
project and the surrounding community. By replacing old office buildings with thoughtfully-designed, modern townhomes, 
Peninsula Heights will create improved views from neighboring homes and a vibrant extension of the existing residential 
neighborhoods surrounding the site. To ensure privacy for neighbors and residents, the site plan maintains an 
appropriate building setback from property lines with well-programmed landscaping. Landscaping will also line the 
walkways and provide shaded parking. 
Peninsula Heights offers community spaces that are both inwardly and outwardly facing in an effort to create an inclusive 
setting for both residents and neighbors. These community spaces include, playgrounds, picnic areas, fitness stations 
and flexible green spaces. 
In addition, the new development consists of an extensive path system that will seamlessly conjoin the current 
neighborhood and activate the open space that covers 42% of the overall site.
COVER SHEET
T.0 	
COVER SHEET
SITE DATA
1.0	
PROJECT DATA #1
1.1	
PROJECT DATA #2
1.2	
VICINITY MAP
1.3	
SITE CONTEXT
1.4	
OVERALL SITE PLAN
1.5	
NORTH SITE PLAN
1.6	
SOUTH SITE PLAN
1.7	
OPEN SPACE PLAN
1.8	
TITLE SHEET
SFD PRODUCT TYPE
2.0	
SFD1 UNIT PLANS
2.1	
SFD1 ROOF+SECT
2.2	
SFD1 ELEV+PERS
2.3	
SFD1 ELEV+PERS
2.4	
SFD1 BUILDING AREA
2.5	
SFD2 UNIT PLANS
2.6	
SFD2 ROOF+SECT
2.7	
SFD2 ELEV+PERS
2.8	
SFD2 ELEV+PERS
2.9	
SFD2 BUILDING AREA
TOWNHOME PRODUCT TYPE
3.0	
4 UNIT UNIT PLANS
3.1	
4 UNIT BLDG AREA
3.2 	 4 UNIT ELEV CS1
3.3 	 4 UNIT PERS CS1
3.4	
6 UNIT UNIT PLANS
3.5	
6 UNIT UNIT PLANS
3.6	
6 UNIT BLDG AREA
3.7 	 6 UNIT ELEV CS2
3.8 	 6 UNIT PERS CS2
3.9	
7 UNIT UNIT PLANS
3.10	 7 UNIT UNIT PLANS
3.11	 7 UNIT UNIT PLANS
3.12	 7 UNIT BLDG AREA
3.13	 7 UNIT BLDG AREA
3.14 	 7 UNIT ELEV CS1
3.15 	 7 UNIT PERS CS1
3.16 	 7 UNIT ELEV CS2
3.17 	 7 UNIT PERS CS2
3.18 	 7 UNIT ELEV CS2 (SE)
3.19 	 7 UNIT PERS CS2 (SE)
3.20	 8 UNIT UNIT PLANS
3.21	 8 UNIT UNIT PLANS
3.22	 8 UNIT BLDG AREA
3.23 	 8 UNIT ELEV CS1
3.24 	 8 UNIT PERS CS1
LANDSCAPE SHEETS
L0.00      KEY PLAN
L0.01      TREE REMOVAL+MITIGATION PLAN – NORTH
L0.02      TREE REMOVAL+MITIGATION PLAN – SOUTH
L0.03      TREE REMOVAL+MITIGATION PLAN – SOUTH
L0.04      TREE EVALUATION SCHEDULE
L1.01      LANDSCAPE DESIGN – NORTH 
L1.02      LANDSCAPE DESIGN – SOUTH
L1.03      LANDSCAPE DESIGN – SOUTH
L2.01      OVERALL LANDSCAPE PLAN – NORTH
L2.02      OVERALL LANDSCAPE PLAN – SOUTH
L2.03      OVERALL LANDSCAPE PLAN – SOUTH
L2.04      LANDSCAPE PLAN ENLARGEMENTS
L2.05      LANDSCAPE PLAN ENLARGEMENTS
L2.06      LANDSCAPE PLAN ENLARGEMENTS
L2.07      LANDSCAPE PLAN ENLARGEMENTS
L2.08      LANDSCAPE MATERIAL IMAGES
L2.09      LANDSCAPE MATERIAL IMAGES AND DETAILS
L2.10      LANDSCAPE AREA CALCULATIONS
L3.00      PLANTING SCHEDULE
L3.01      PLANTING PLAN – NORTH
L3.02      PLANTING PLAN – SOUTH
L3.03      PLANTING PLAN – SOUTH
L3.04      PLANT IMAGES
L3.05      PLANT IMAGES
NOTES
- FOR LIST OF HERITAGE TREES, SEE SHEETS L0.01 
& L0.04
- FOR CUBIC YARDS OF SOIL DISTURBANCE, SEE 
SHEETS C3.1 & C10.1
3.25	 9 UNIT UNIT PLANS
3.26	 9 UNIT UNIT PLANS
3.27	 9 UNIT BLDG AREA
3.28 	 9 UNIT ELEV CS1
3.29 	 9 UNIT PERS CS1
3.30 	 9 UNIT ELEV CS2
3.31 	 9 UNIT PERS CS2	
3.32	 10 UNIT UNIT PLANS
3.33	 10 UNIT UNIT PLANS
3.34	 10UNIT BLDG AREA
3.35 	 10 UNIT ELEV CS2
3.36 	 10 UNIT PERS CS2
3.37 	 TOWNHOME SECT
TH OVER FLATS PRODUCT TYPE
4.0	
6 UNIT PLANS
4.1	
6 ROOF PLAN
4.2	
6 UNIT BLDG AREA
4.3	
6 UNIT ELEV CS2
4.4	
6 UNIT PERS CS2
4.5	
12 UNIT PLANS
4.6	
12 UNIT PLANS
4.7	
12 UNIT PLANS
4.8	
12 UNIT PLANS
4.9	
12 UNIT PLANS
4.10	 12 UNIT BLDG AREA
4.11	 12 UNIT BLDG AREA (SE)
4.12	 12 UNIT ELEV CS1 FLAT
4.13	 12 UNIT PERP CS1 FLAT
4.14	 12 UNIT ELEV CS2 PTCH
4.15	 12 UNIT PERP CS2 PTCH
4.16	 12 UNIT ELEV CS1(SE) FLAT
4.17	 12 UNIT PERP CS1(SE) FLAT
4.18	 12 UNIT ELEV CS1(SE) PTCH
4.19	 12 UNIT PERP CS1(SE) PTCH
4.20	 12 UNIT ELEV CS2(SE)
4.21	 12 UNIT PERP CS2(SE
4.22	 TH OVER FLATS SECT
TRASH ENCLOSURE
5.0	
ELEVATIONS + PLAN 
MATERIAL BOARDS
6.0	
SITE CS MAP
6.1	
SFD 1 CS1
6.2	
SFD 1 CS2
6.3	
SFD 2 CS1
6.4	
SFD 2 CS2
6.5	
TOWNHOME CS1
6.6	
TOWNHOME CS2
6.7	
TH OVER FLATS CS1
6.8	
TH OVER FLATS CS2
CIVIL SHEETS
C0.0       TITLE SHEET
NORTH SITE
C1.1       EXISTING CONDITIONS
C2.1       VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
C2.2       SITE ACCESS PLAN
C3.1       GRADING PLAN
C4.1       UTILITY PLAN
C5.1       SW CONTROL PLAN
C6.1       FIRE ACCESS PLAN
C7.1       EROSION CONTROL PLAN
C8.1       SECTION
C8.2       DETAILS
C8.3       DETAILS
C8.4       PRIVATE STREET PROFILE
C8.5       PRIVATE STREET PROFILE
C8.6       UNIT GRADING
SOUTH SITE
C9.1       EXISTING CONDITIONS
C9.2       EXISTING CONDITIONS
C10.1     VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
C10.2     VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
C10.3     SITE ACCESS PLAN
C10.4     SITE ACCESS PLAN
C11.1     GRADING PLAN
C11.2     GRADING PLAN
C12.1     UTILITY PLAN
C12.2     UTILITY PLAN
C13.1     SW CONTROL PLAN
C13.2     SW CONTROL PLAN
C14.1     FIRE ACCESS PLAN
C14.2     FIRE ACCESS PLAN
C15.1     EROSION CONTROL PLAN
C15.2     EROSION CONTROL PLAN
C16.1     SECTION
C16.2     DETAILS
C16.3     DETAILS
C16.4     PRIVATE STREETS PROFILE
C16.5     PRIVATE STREETS PROFILE
C16.6     UNIT GRADING
C16.7     UNIT GRADING
ROW WORK
C-1	       CONCEPTUAL STRIPING 	
	
	
      PLAN
C-2         CONCEPTUAL STRIPING 	
	
	
      PLAN
APPLICANT REPRESENTATIVE:
HARVEST PROPERTIES, INC.
180 Grand Avenue, Suite 1400
Oakland, CA 94610
Tel: 510-466-1485
Contact: Preston O’Connell 
OWNER:
- 2988 CAMPUS POP OWNER, LLC
- 2800 CAMPUS POP OWNER, LLC
- 2755 CAMPUS POP OWNER, LLC
- 2655 CAMPUS POP OWNER, LLC
ARCHITECT:
DAHLIN 
5865 Owens Drive, 
Pleasanton, CA 94588
Tel: 925-251-7200 
Contact: Padru C. Kang
CIVIL ENGINEER:
BKF ENGINEERS 
255 Shoreline Drive, Suite 200
Redwood City, CA 94065
San Jose, CA 95112
Tel: 650-435-1251
Contact: Dale Leda
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT:
JETT
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DESIGN
2 Theatre Square, Suite 218,
Orinda, CA 94563
Tel: 925-254-5422	
Contact: Bruce Jett
PROJECT TEAM:
GLENDORA DR
PARROTT DR
SITE
ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS
28TH AVE
31ST AVE
W HILLSDALE BLVD
CAMPUS DR
VICINITY MAP: N.T.S

--- page 65 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
Site Address:
APN
Parcel
Area (AC)
2988 Campus Dr
41521010
2800 Campus Dr
41521020
2755 Campus Dr
41522020
2655 Campus Dr
41522010
Total Site Area (Sq. Ft.):
Northern Site Area (Sq. Ft.):
Southern Site Area (Sq. Ft.):
Total Site Area (Acres):
306,609
366,353
15.45
 PROJECT DATA 
Northern
7.04
Southern
8.41
672,962
PROJECT DATA #2
1.1
12'-7"
8'-1" PLATE (9'-3 3/4")
UP 15 RISERS @ 7.45" EA
14 TREADS @ 10" EA.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15'-7"
15'-7" (A-A)
14'-3"
9'-1" PLATE (10'-3 3/4")
UP 17 RISERS @ 7.25" EA
16 TREADS @ 10" EA.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17'-6" (C-C)
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
15'-1"
10'-0" PLATE (11'-2 3/4")
UP 18 RISERS @ 7.486" EA
17 TREADS @ 10" EA.
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18'-9"
18'-9" (B-B)
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
1
2
3
4
18
PROJECT DATA:
DIAGRAM 2: PATH OF TRAVEL EGRESS 
DISTANCE METHODOLOGY:
ARCHITECTURAL DATA:
BUILDING DATA:
DIAGRAM 1: CHAPTER 7A KEYMAP
(Buildings highlighted in green are subject.)
SOUTH SITE PROJECT DATA:
NORTH SITE PROJECT DATA:
BUILDING	TYPE:
OCCUPANCY GROUP:
CONSTRUCTION TYPE:
EXTERIOR FIRE RESISTANCE RATING:
ALLOWABLE HEIGHT:
ALLOWABLE AREA (PER FLOOR / PER BLDG):
SPRINKLER SYSTEM:
Single Family Detached
R-3
VB
N/A
4-Stories, 40’
Unlimited / Unlimited
NFPA 13R
4-Story Townhome
R-2
VA
1-Hour
4-Stories, 60’
36,000 SF / 72,000 SF
NFPA 13
4-Story Townhome over Flat
R-2
IIIA
2-Hour
4 Stories, 65’
72,000 SF / 144,000 SF
NFPA 13
APPLICABLE CODES                                                                           	
	
	
	
                                                	
	
	
	
2019 CBC - CA Building Code Parts 1 & 2
2019 CMC - CA Mechanical Code
2019 CPC - CA Plumbing Code
2019 CFC – CA Fire Code
2019 CENC - CA Energy Code
2019 CGBC – CA Green Building Code
2019 California Referenced Standards Code
City of San Mateo Municipal Code
NOTES	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
1. All townhome units will feature a NFPA 13 system with an exterior fire closet.
2. Type of construction III-A for 4-Story TH over flat requires non-combustible 2-hr fire rated exterior walls.
3. See KEYMAP for buildings (Highlighted in blue) subject to compliance with WUI requirements of CBC Chapter 7A.
4. 4-Story Townhome buildings will use area increase per CBC Chapter 5.
5. 4-Story Stacked Townhome over Flat Buildings will use area increase per CBC Chapter 5.
6. All residential units will be 100% electric.
Development Standard
Existing:
Permitted:
Proposed:
GP Designation:
Executive 
Office
Executive 
Office
Zoning Classification:
E1-1 - 
Executive 
Office
E1-1 with 
SUP
Floor Area Ratio:
0.29
1
1.0
Total Floor Area (Sq. Ft.):
89,344 
306,609 
309,304 
Total Number of Units:
134
     2 Bedroom Unit
32
     3 Bedroom Unit
60
     4 Bedroom Unit
12
     4 Bedroom Unit
30
Density (DU / Acre):
34.85
19.03
Bldg. Height:
55'
55'
43'
Site Open Space Area (Sq. Ft.):
107,313
133,732
Site Open Space Area (%):
35%
44%
Req. / Unit:
Total Req:
Proposed:
286.8
289
     Resident Stalls / 2 bed under 1400 sf:
1.8 per unit
18
20
     Resident Stalls / 3 bed or any unit over 
1400 sf:
2 per unit
188
188
     Uncovered (Guest) Parking Stalls:
.2 per unit
20.8
21
     Covered Parking Stalls:
1 per unit
104
208
     Van Accessible Parking Stalls:
5% Guest
1.1
2
     EV Capable Parking Stalls:
15% Guest
3.2
4
     EV Capable Accessible Parking Stalls:
1/8 EV
2 of 4
2 of 4
    Short-term Bicycle Parking Stalls / 2 bed 
under 1400 sf:
.1 per unit
1.0
1
    Long-term Bicycle Parking Stalls / 2 bed 
under 1400 sf:
1.25 per unit
12.5
20
    Short-term Bicycle Parking Stalls / 3 bed 
or any unit over 1400 sf:
.15 per unit
14.1
15
    Long-term Bicycle Parking Stalls / 3 bed 
or any unit over 1400 sf:
1.5 per unit
141.0
188
     Covered Parking Stalls
2 per unit
60
60
    Loading Space (10' x 25')
1 space
2 spaces
Setbacks:
Permitted:
Proposed:
     Street Frontage
15'
15'
     Buffer (Adjacent to Residential District)
15' (or 1/2 
bldg height)
14'
     Side & Rear (Not Adjacent to Residential 
District)
15'
24'
Multiple-family dwelling:
Single-family dwelling (detached, under 3,000 sq. ft. of floor area)
NORTHERN PARCEL PROJECT DATA
Multiple-family dwelling:
Single-family dwelling (detached)
Total Parking:
Development Standard
Existing:
Permitted:
Proposed:
GP Designation:
Executive 
Office
Executive 
Office
Zoning Classification:
E1-1 - 
Executive 
Office
E1-1 with 
SUP
Floor Area Ratio:
0.37
1
1.0
Total Floor Area (Sq. Ft.):
135,500 
366,353 
367,995 
Total Number of Units:
156
     2 Bedroom Unit
34
     3 Bedroom Unit
62
     4 Bedroom Unit
16
     4 Bedroom Unit
44
Density (DU / Acre):
34.85
18.55
Bldg. Height:
55'
55'
43'
Site Open Space Area (Sq. Ft.):
128,224
152,105
Site Open Space Area (%):
35%
42%
Total Req:
Proposed:
332.4
335
     Resident Stalls / 2 bed under 1400 sf:
1.8 per unit
18.0
20
     Resident Stalls / 3 bed or any unit over 
1400 sf:
2 per unit
204
204
     Uncovered (Guest) Parking Stalls:
.2 per unit
22.4
23
     Covered Parking Stalls:
1 per unit
112
224
     Van Accessible Parking Stalls:
5% Guest
1.2
2
     EV Capable Parking Stalls:
15% Guest
3.5
4
     EV Capable Accessible Parking Stalls:
1/8 EV
2 of 4
2 of 4
    Short-term Bicycle Parking Stalls / 2 bed 
under 1400 sf:
.1 per unit
1.0
1
    Long-term Bicycle Parking Stalls / 2 bed 
under 1400 sf:
1.25 per unit
12.5
20
    Short-term Bicycle Parking Stalls / 3 bed 
or any unit over 1400 sf:
.15 per unit
15.3
16
    Long-term Bicycle Parking Stalls / 3 bed 
or any unit over 1400 sf:
1.5 per unit
153.0
204
     Covered Parking Stalls
2 per unit
88
88
    Loading Space (10' x 25')
1 space
2 spaces
Setbacks:
Permitted:
Proposed:
     Street Frontage
15'
21'
     Buffer (Adjacent to Residential District)
15' (or 1/2 
bldg height)
21'
     Side & Rear (Not Adjacent to Residential 
District)
15'
15'
Single-family dwelling (detached, under 3,000 sq. ft. of floor area)
Multiple-family dwelling:
SOUTHERN PARCEL PROJECT DATA
Single-family dwelling (detached)
Multiple-family dwelling:
Total Parking:
Req. / Unit:
Unit 
Count
Total Gross 
Living Area 
(Sq. Ft.)
Total San Mateo 
GFA (Sq. Ft.)
Unit 
Count
Total Gross 
Living Area 
(Sq. Ft.)
Total San 
Mateo GFA 
(Sq. Ft.)
Total Gross 
Living Area 
(Sq. Ft.)
Total San 
Mateo GFA 
(Sq. Ft.)
Flat A
2
2
1,523
12-Unit Bldg
10
15,233
0
0
10
3.4%
15,233
Flat B
3
2
1,669
10
16,687
0
0
10
3.4%
16,687
Townhome A
3
3
1,302
20
26,046
0
0
20
6.9%
26,046
Townhome B
2
2.5
1,363
10
13,632
0
0
10
3.4%
13,632
Townhome C
3
2.5
1,453
10
14,527
0
0
10
3.4%
14,527
Flat B
3
2
1,669
6-Unit Bldg
0
0
2
3,337
2
0.7%
3,337
Townhome A
3
3
1,302
0
0
2
2,605
2
0.7%
2,605
Townhome B
2
2.5
1,363
0
0
2
2,726
2
0.7%
2,726
Flat A2
2
2
1,523
12-Unit Bldg
0
0
8
12,186
8
2.8%
12,186
Flat B2
3
2
1,669
0
0
8
13,350
8
2.8%
13,350
Townhome A2
3
3
1,302
0
0
16
20,837
16
5.5%
20,837
Townhome B2
2
2.5
1,363
0
0
8
10,906
8
2.8%
10,906
Townhome C2
3
2.5
1,453
0
0
8
11,622
8
2.8%
11,622
4-Story TH over Flats Total
60
86,125
125,515
54
77,568
113,097
114
39.3%
163,693
238,612
Townhome A
4
3.5
1,980
2,558
12
23,759
30693.6
14
27,719
35,809
26
9.0%
51,477
66,503
Townhome B
2
2.5
1,562
2,181
12
18,747
26175.6
14
21,872
30,538
26
9.0%
40,619
56,714
Townhome C 
3
3
1,545
2,152
13
20,082
27977.3
17
26,262
36,586
30
10.3%
46,344
64,563
Townhome C mid
3
3
1,545
2,171
7
10,814
15196.3
6
9,269
13,025
13
4.5%
20,082
28,222
Townhome A2
4
3.5
1,980
2,553
0
0
2
3,960
5,105
2
0.7%
3,960
5,105
Townhome B2
2
2.5
1,562
2,181
0
0
2
3,125
4,363
2
0.7%
3,125
4,363
Townhome C2
3
3
1,545
2,152
0
0
2
3,090
4,304
2
0.7%
3,090
4,304
Townhome C2 mid
3
3
1,545
2,171
0
0
1
1,545
2,171
1
0.3%
1,545
2,171
3-Story Townhome Total
44
73,402
100,043
58
96,839
131,901
102
35.2%
170,241
231,944
SFD 1
4
3.5
2,379
2,876
15
35,691
43138.5
23
54,726
66145.7
38
13.1%
90,417
109,284
SFD 2
4
3.5
2,184
2,707
15
32,760
40608
21
45,864
56851.2
36
12.4%
78,624
97,459
SFD Total
30
68,451
83,747
44
100,590
122,997
74
25.5%
169,041
206,743
Total
134
227,978
309,304
156
274,998
367,995
290
100.0%
502,976
677,299
25,103
3-Story Townhomes (2nd Level Entry)
4-Story TH over Flats (2nd Level Entry)
25,078
100,313
100,313
3-Story Townhomes (1st Level Entry)
SFD Buildings
Unit Count
Gross 
Living Area 
/ Unit (Sq. 
Ft.)
Bath 
Count
Architectural Data
Overall Project
125,515
Unit Name
Northern Parcels
Southern Parcels
4-Story TH over Flats (1st Level Entry)
San Mateo 
Gross Floor 
Area / Unit 
(Sq. Ft.)
125,515
Bed 
Count
12,784
12,784
12,784

--- page 66 ---
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-13-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
VICINITY MAP
POLHEMUS ROAD
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
1.2
W HILLSDALE BLVD
0.5 MILE RADIUS
EL CAMINO REAL
CAL TRAIN
RALSTON AVE
LAURELWOOD PARK
COLLEGE OF SAN MATEO
FARMER’S MARKET
4
5
6
PENINSULA HEIGHTS SITE
LAURELWOOD SHOPPING CENTER 
BERESFORD PARK 
1
2
3
SITE
1
4
2
5
3
6

--- page 67 ---
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-13-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
SITE CONTEXT
2
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
1.3
1
3
5
6
7
8
2
4
7
8
5
6
3
4
1
CAMPUS DRIVE

--- page 68 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-13-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
PROPOSED OVERALL SITE PLAN
SOUTH SITE PLAN
NORTH SITE PLAN
40
80
160
L
L
T
T
T
T
T
T
T
L
L
1.4
*ALL UNITS EXCEPT 4-STORY PRODUCT 
WILL FEATURE ROOF DECKS
-176 ROOF DECK UNITS
-114 NON ROOF DECK UNITS
-290 UNITS TOTAL
Summary by bed count
Summary by bed count
Summary by bed count
Northern Parcels
Southern Parcels
Project Total
2 bed
32
23.9%
2 bed
34
21.8%
2 bed
66
22.8%
3 bed
60
44.8%
3 bed
62
39.7%
3 bed
122
42.1%
4 bed
42
31.3%
4 bed
60
38.5%
4 bed
102
35.2%
Total
134
100.0%
Total
156
100.0%
Total
290
100.0%

--- page 69 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-13-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
40
80
160
L
L
ACCESSIBILITY SUMMARY
ACCESSIBLE UNIT (23 PROVIDED)
NORTH SITE - UPPER TERRACE
TOTAL MULTI-FAMILY UNITS: 	
44 DU
ACCESSIBLE UNITS REQUIRED:	 5 DU
ACCESSIBLE UNITS PROVIDED:	 5 DU
SOUTH SITE - LOWER TERRACE
TOTAL MULTI-FAMILY UNITS: 	
60 DU
ACCESSIBLE UNITS REQUIRED:	 6 DU
ACCESSIBLE UNITS PROVIDED:	 6 DU 
SOUTH SITE - UPPER TERRACE
TOTAL MULTI-FAMILY UNITS: 	
58 DU
ACCESSIBLE UNITS REQUIRED:	 6 DU
ACCESSIBLE UNITS PROVIDED:	 6 DU
SOUTH SITE - LOWER TERRACE
TOTAL MULTI-FAMILY UNITS: 	
54 DU
ACCESSIBLE UNITS REQUIRED:	 6 DU
ACCESSIBLE UNITS PROVIDED:	 6 DU
NOTES:
1.	
See SITE ACCESS PLAN for accessible
	
path of travel.
2.	
Accessible units will comply with 
	
requirements of CBC Chapter 11 as
	
applicable.  
KEY MAP
T
T
T
OPEN 
SPACE 
AMENITY
NORTH SITE PLAN
1.5
OPEN 
SPACE 
AMENITY

--- page 70 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-13-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
16
32
64
SOUTH SITE PLAN
1.6
0
OPEN  SPACE AMENITY
L
L
ACCESSIBILITY SUMMARY
KEY MAP
T
T
T
T
OPEN 
SPACE 
AMENITY
OPEN 
SPACE 
AMENITY
OPEN 
SPACE 
AMENITY
ACCESSIBLE UNIT (23 PROVIDED)
BUILDING WITH 2ND FLOOR ENTRY
NORTH SITE - UPPER TERRACE
TOTAL MULTI-FAMILY UNITS: 	
44 DU
ACCESSIBLE UNITS REQUIRED:	 5 DU
ACCESSIBLE UNITS PROVIDED:	 5 DU
SOUTH SITE - LOWER TERRACE
TOTAL MULTI-FAMILY UNITS: 	
60 DU
ACCESSIBLE UNITS REQUIRED:	 6 DU
ACCESSIBLE UNITS PROVIDED:	 6 DU 
SOUTH SITE - UPPER TERRACE
TOTAL MULTI-FAMILY UNITS: 	
58 DU
ACCESSIBLE UNITS REQUIRED:	 6 DU
ACCESSIBLE UNITS PROVIDED:	 6 DU
SOUTH SITE - LOWER TERRACE
TOTAL MULTI-FAMILY UNITS: 	
54 DU
ACCESSIBLE UNITS REQUIRED:	 6 DU
ACCESSIBLE UNITS PROVIDED:	 6 DU
NOTES:
1.	
See SITE ACCESS PLAN for accessible
	
path of travel.
2.	
Accessible units will comply with 
	
requirements of CBC Chapter 11 as
	
applicable.

--- page 71 ---
1.7
OPEN SPACE PLAN
80	 	
 0	
	
80            160 feet
OPEN SPACE SUMMARY
Total Open Space: 	
285,837 SF
Site Area:	
	
	
672,963 sf
	
	
	
	
	
= 42.5% Open Space/Site Area
Open Space North Parcel:
+/- 133,732 SF
Open Space South Parcel:
+/- 152,105 SF

--- page 72 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
1.8
1.8
FLOOR PLANS AND ELEVATIONS
TITLE SHEET

--- page 73 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
DINING
POWDER
KITCHEN
LIVING
FLEX SPACE
BEDROOM 2
BEDROOM 3
M.BEDROOM
M.BATHROOM
W.I.C
W.I.C
W.I.C
BATHROOM 2
LAUNDRY
31'-1 1/2"
1'-5 1/2"
46'-4"
12'-2 1/2"
10'-3 1/2"
2'-9 1/2"
46'-4"
UP
DN
F.A.U
1'-5 1/2"
LIN
PANTRY
STR
BEDROOM 1
BATHROOM 1
2 - CAR GARAGE
20'-0" X 18'-0"
21'-7"
PORCH
STORAGE
45'-6"
12'-6"
10'-0"
10'-1"
35'-5"
22'-6"
UP
W.I.C
ENTRY
COAT
12'-2 1/2"
10'-3 1/2"
2'-9 1/2"
12'-8"
13'-10 1/2"
14'-1"
8'-7"
10'-0"
5'-2 1/4" (A-A)
7'-3 1/4" (A-A)
3'-1 1/2" (A-A)
8'-7 1/2"
1'-3"
2'-11"
8'-3 3/4 (B-B)"
6'-9 1/2"
7'-3 3/4" (B-B)
3'-1 1/2"
(B-B)
1'-3"
1'-3"
UP
DN
8'-3" (C-C)
5'-9 1/2"
9'-3" (C-C)
1'-3"
3'-4"
3'-4"
3'-0"
4"
31'-1 1/2"
13'-10 1/2"
29'-2"
ADJACENT PROPERTY LINE
ADJACENT PROPERTY LINE
MINIMUM LOT WIDTH
3'-0"
3'-0"
FACE OF FRAMING
FACE OF FINISH
FACE OF FRAMING
FACE OF FINISH
FACE OF FINISH
POP OUT FACE OF FINISH
UPPER FLOOR POP OUT
FACE OF FINISH
Total travel distance
116'-2 1/2"
POP OUT FACE OF FINISH
4"
4"
4"
4"
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
2.0
1ST - 3RD LEVEL
SFD-1 UNIT PLANS 
FIRST LEVEL PLAN
SECOND LEVEL PLAN
THIRD LEVEL PLAN
EGRESS PATH: 
(MUST BE LESS THAN 125’)
* SEE DIAGRAM 2 
ON SHEET 1.1

--- page 74 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
2.1
SFD-1
ROOF DECK
MECH
39'-4"
34'-9 1/2"
12'-5 1/2"
10'-0"
DN
10'-0 1/2"
8'-9"
5'-8"
12'-8"
A/C
TRELLIS
4' x8' PV
PANELS
35'-3"
POP OUT FACE OF FINISH
4"
ROOF DECK PLAN
SECTION A - A
ROOF PLAN AND SECTION
A
A
EGRESS PATH: 
(MUST BE LESS THAN 125’)
* SEE DIAGRAM 2 
ON SHEET 1.1

--- page 75 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
2.2
3
10
1
8
4
2
7
5
3
8
7
2
10
4
3
3
1
7
9
10
1
10
3
5
3
3
10
4
2
A
B
A
B
BEDROOM 1
BATHROOM 1
2 - CAR GARAGE
20'-0" X 18'-0"
21'-7"
PORCH
STORAGE
45'-6"
12'-6"
10'-0"
10'-1"
35'-5"
22'-6"
UP
W.I.C
ENTRY
COAT
1
2
4
3
COLOR SCHEME-1
SFD 1 ELEVATIONS + PERSPECTIVE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. WALK
8’-1”
10’-1”
9’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
38’-10”
T.O. S.F
1’-2”
8’-1”
T.O. PLATE
+/- 40’- 0”
T.O.R.
REAR ELEVATION
L  ELEVATION
R ELEVATION
FRONT ELEVATION
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
METAL TRELLIS
DECORATIVE METAL AWNING
STUCCO FINISH W/MTL REVEALS
VERTICLE SIDING
FIBERGLASS DOOR
NOT USED
VINYL WINDOWS 
METAL GUARDRAIL
METAL GARAGE DOORS
STONE VENEER
MATERIAL LIST

--- page 76 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
2.3
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
METAL TRELLIS
DECORATIVE METAL AWNING
STUCCO FINISH W/MTL REVEALS
VERTICLE SIDING
FIBERGLASS DOOR
NOT USED
VINYL WINDOWS 
METAL GUARDRAIL
METAL GARAGE DOORS
STONE VENEER
MATERIAL LIST
A
B
A
B
BEDROOM 1
BATHROOM 1
2 - CAR GARAGE
20'-0" X 18'-0"
21'-7"
PORCH
STORAGE
45'-6"
12'-6"
10'-0"
10'-1"
35'-5"
22'-6"
UP
W.I.C
ENTRY
COAT
1
2
4
3
COLOR SCHEME-2
SFD 1 ELEVATIONS + PERSPECTIVE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. WALK
8’-1”
10’-1”
9’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
38’-10”
T.O. S.F
1’-2”
8’-1”
T.O. PLATE
+/- 40’- 0”
T.O.R.
REAR ELEVATION
L  ELEVATION
R ELEVATION
FRONT ELEVATION
3
3
1
7
9
10
1
10
3
5
3
3
10
4
2
3
10
1
8
4
2
7
5
3
8
7
2
10
4

--- page 77 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
Area Calcs
CBC
San Mateo 
Gross
Floor 1
UL (R-3)
464.3
Floor
Floor 2
UL (R-3)
951.5
Floor
Floor 3
UL (R-3)
951.5
Floor
Roof Deck
UL (R-3)
50.1
Roof
Exterior
UL (R-3)
N/A
Garage
UL (R-3)
458.5
Total
UL (R-3)
2,876
Total
SFD 1
BEDROOM 2
BEDROOM 3
M.BEDROOM
M.BATHROOM
W.I.C
W.I.C
W.I.C
BATHROOM 2
LAUNDRY
F.A.U
LIN
UP
DN
BEDROOM 1
BATHROOM 1
2 - CAR GARAGE
20'-0" X 18'-0"
PORCH
STORAGE
UP
W.I.C
ENTRY
COAT
DINING
POWDER
KITCHEN
LIVING
FLEX SPACE
UP
DN
PANTRY
STR
ROOF DECK
MECH
DN
A/C
TRELLIS
4' x8' PV
PANELS
THIRD LEVEL 
ROOF DECK
FIRST LEVEL
SECOND LEVEL
BUILDING AREA DIAGRAMS
2.4
SFD1 
GROSS AREA DIAGRAMS (PER SAN MATEO ZONING CODE)
GROSS AREA

--- page 78 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
BEDROOM 2
BEDROOM 3
M.BEDROOM
PANTRY
KITCHEN
DINING
LIVING
2 - CAR GARAGE
20'-0" X 18'-0"
OFFICE/BEDROOM 4
ENTRY
BALCONY
M.BATHROOM
BATHROOM 2
STORAGE
UP
UP
UP
DN
DN
21'-7"
23'-2"
39'-0"
22'-6"
12'-8"
PORCH
11'-5"
22'-6"
F.A.U
POWDER
W.I.C
LAUNDRY
BATHROOM 3
W.I.C
11'-1"
41'-4"
2'-0"
10'-0"
22'-8"
42'-6"
13'-10 1/2"
12'-8"
11'-5"
11'-1"
27'-5 1/2"
2'-0"
10'-0"
22'-8"
42'-6"
40'-0"
7'-1 3/4"
18'-9" (B-B)
17'-6" (C-C)
15'-7" (A-A)
20'-0 1/4"
21'- 1/4"
3'-0"
ADJACENT PROPERTY LINE
ADJACENT PROPERTY LINE
3'-4"
29'-2"
MINIMUM LOT WIDTH
3'-0"
FACE OF FRAMING
FACE OF FINISH
FACE OF FINISH
UPPER FLOOR POP OUT
FACE OF FINISH
3'-4"
3'-0"
FACE OF FRAMING
FACE OF FINISH
POP OUT FACE OF FINISH
POP OUT FACE OF FINISH
4"
Total travel distance
124'-11"
4"
4"
4"
4"
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
2.5
1ST -  3RD LEVEL
SFD-2 UNIT PLANS
FIRST LEVEL PLAN
SECOND LEVEL PLAN
THIRD LEVEL PLAN
EGRESS PATH: 
(MUST BE LESS THAN 125’)
* SEE DIAGRAM 2 
ON SHEET 1.1

--- page 79 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
A/C
26'-8 1/2"
12'-6"
22'-6"
31'-9"
10'-0"
5'-0 1/2"
DN
TRELLIS
4' x 8' PV
PANELS
24'-10 -3/4"
2.6
SFD-2 
ROOF PLAN AND SECTION
ROOF DECK PLAN
SECTION A - A
A
A
EGRESS PATH: 
(MUST BE LESS THAN 125’)
* SEE DIAGRAM 2 
ON SHEET 1.1

--- page 80 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
COLOR SCHEME-1
SFD 2 ELEVATIONS + PERSPECTIVE
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
2.7
2 - CAR GARAGE
20'-0" X 18'-0"
OFFICE/BEDROOM 4
ENTRY
STORAGE
UP
21'-7"
23'-2"
39'-0"
22'-6"
PORCH
22'-6"
BATHROOM 3
W.I.C
40'-0"
1
2
4
3
1
2
3
4
A
B
A
B
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. WALK
9’-1”
10’-1”
8’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
38’-10”
T.O. S.F
T.O. PLATE
8’-1”
1’-2”
+/- 40’- 0”
T.O.R.
REAR ELEVATION
L  ELEVATION
R ELEVATION
FRONT ELEVATION
4
3
4
2
7
8
10
3
1
4
2
8
10
7
9
10
7
2
1
4
3
4
5
1
2
3
8
7
10
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
METAL TRELLIS
DECORATIVE METAL AWNING
STUCCO FINISH W/MTL REVEALS
LAP SIDING
FIBERGLASS DOOR
SMOOTH CEMENTITOUS PANEL/TRIM
VINYL WINDOWS 
METAL GUARDRAIL
METAL GARAGE DOORS
STONE VENEER
MATERIAL LIST

--- page 81 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
COLOR SCHEME-2
SFD 2 ELEVATIONS + PERSPECTIVE
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
2.8
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
METAL TRELLIS
DECORATIVE METAL AWNING
STUCCO FINISH W/MTL REVEALS
LAP SIDING
FIBERGLASS DOOR
SMOOTH CEMENTITOUS PANEL/TRIM
VINYL WINDOWS 
METAL GUARDRAIL
METAL GARAGE DOORS
STONE VENEER
MATERIAL LIST
1
2
3
4
4
5
1
2
3
8
7
10
3
1
4
2
8
10
7
9
10
7
2
1
4
3
4
3
4
2
7
8
10
A
B
A
B
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. WALK
9’-1”
10’-1”
8’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
38’-10”
T.O. S.F
T.O. PLATE
8’-1”
1’-2”
+/- 40’- 0”
T.O.R.
REAR ELEVATION
L  ELEVATION
R ELEVATION
FRONT ELEVATION
10
2 - CAR GARAGE
20'-0" X 18'-0"
OFFICE/BEDROOM 4
ENTRY
STORAGE
UP
21'-7"
23'-2"
39'-0"
22'-6"
PORCH
22'-6"
BATHROOM 3
W.I.C
40'-0"
1
2
4
3

--- page 82 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
Area Calcs
CBC
San Mateo 
Gross
Floor 1
UL (R-3)
434
Floor
Floor 2
UL (R-3)
902.1
Floor
Floor 3
UL (R-3)
895.5
Floor
Roof Deck
UL (R-3)
19.7
Floor
Exterior
UL (R-3)
N/A
Exterior
Garage
UL (R-3)
455.9
Garage
Total
UL (R-3)
2,707
Total
SFD 2
Stac
BEDROOM 2
BEDROOM 3
M.BEDROOM
M.BATHROOM
BATHROOM 2
UP
DN
F.A.U
W.I.C
LAUNDRY
2 - CAR GARAGE
20'-0" X 18'-0"
OFFICE/BEDROOM 4
ENTRY
STORAGE
UP
PORCH
BATHROOM 3
W.I.C
PANTRY
KITCHEN
DINING
LIVING
BALCONY
UP
DN
POWDER
A/C
DN
TRELLIS
4' x 8' PV
PANELS
THIRD LEVEL 
ROOF DECK
FIRST LEVEL
SECOND LEVEL
BUILDING AREA DIAGRAMS
2.9
SFD2
GROSS AREA DIAGRAMS (PER SAN MATEO ZONING CODE)
GROSS AREA

--- page 83 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
47'-10"
24'-4"
76'-0"
19'-10"
18'-2"
CL
CLCL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
COAT
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
COAT
76'-0"
19'-10"
18'-2"
76'-0"
13'-8"
13'-8"
24'-4"
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
18'-0" X 20'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
18'-0" X 20'-0"
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
CL
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
CL
13'-8"
24'-4"
76'-0"
19'-10"
18'-2"
76'-0"
50'-2"
13'-8"
24'-4"
19'-10"
18'-2"
50'-2"
49'-4"
13'-8"
22'-10"
73'-0"
18'-4"
18'-2"
CL
CLCL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
13'-8"
22'-10"
18'-4"
18'-2"
73'-0"
49'-4"
37'-10"
13'-8"
19'-0 1/2"
65'-5"
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
CL
CLCL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
13'-8"
19'-0 1/2"
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
65'-5"
37'-10"
+/- 124.5’
+/- 124.8’
+/- 124.5’
+/- 124.8’
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.0
1ST-ROOF DECK LEVELS
4 UNIT TOWNHOME
SECOND LEVEL PLAN
GROUND LEVEL PLAN
3RD LEVEL PLAN
ROOF DECK PLAN
KEY MAP
EGRESS PATH: 
(MAXIMUM 125’)
* SEE DIAGRAM 
2 ON SHEET 1.1 
2

--- page 84 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
CL
CLCL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
CL
CLCL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
CL
CLCL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
GROSS AREA DIAGRAMS (PER SAN MATEO ZONING CODE)
THIRD LEVEL 
THIRD LEVEL 
FOURTH LEVEL
FOURTH LEVEL
AREA DIAGRAMS (PER C.B.C.)
CL
CLCL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
COAT
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
COAT
CL
CLCL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
COAT
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
COAT
FIRST LEVEL
FIRST LEVEL
SECOND LEVEL
SECOND LEVEL
LED
LED
FC
3'-6"
5'-3"
5'-7"
1'-7"
3'-0"
3'-0"
1'-7"
EQ.
EQ.
4'-3"
2'-1 1/2"
EQ.
EQ.
S
S
EQ.
EQ.
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
LED
LED
FC
3'-6"
5'-3"
5'-7"
1'-7"
3'-0"
3'-0"
1'-7"
EQ.
EQ.
4'-3"
2'-1 1/2"
EQ.
EQ.
S
S
EQ.
EQ.
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
LED
LED
FC
3'-6"
5'-3"
5'-7"
1'-7"
3'-0"
3'-0"
1'-7"
EQ.
EQ.
4'-3"
2'-1 1/2"
EQ.
EQ.
S
S
EQ.
EQ.
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
LED
LED
FC
3'-6"
5'-3"
5'-7"
1'-7"
3'-0"
3'-0"
1'-7"
EQ.
EQ.
4'-3"
2'-1 1/2"
EQ.
EQ.
S
S
EQ.
EQ.
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
CBC AREA
GROSS AREA
Area Calcs
CBC
San Mateo 
Gross
Floor 1
1211.8
1390.8
Floor 2
3011.6
2810.2
Floor 3
3055
2975.2
Floor 4
777.8
307.8
Floor
Exterior
882
N/A
Garage
1940.4
1994.2
Total
10878.6
9,478
Total
TH ‐ 4‐Plex
AREA DIAGRAMS (PER C.B.C.)
4 UNIT TOWNHOME
BUILDING AREA DIAGRAMS
3.1
37'-10"
13'-8"
19'-0 1/2"
65'-5"
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
CL
CLCL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
13'-8"
19'-0 1/2"
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
65'-5"
37'-10"
2

--- page 85 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.2
4
1
3
2
2
1
3
4
REAR ELEVATION
L  ELEVATION
R ELEVATION
FRONT ELEVATION
COLOR SCHEME-1
4 UNIT TOWNHOME ELEVATIONS
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. WALK
9’-1”
10’-1”
8’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
38’-10”
T.O. S.F
T.O. PLATE
8’-1”
1’-2”
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. WALK
8’-1”
10’-1”
9’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
38’-10”
T.O. S.F
1’-2”
8’-1”
T.O. PLATE
+/- 40’- 0”
T.O.R.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
METAL TRELLIS
DECORATIVE AWNING
STUCCO FINISH W/MTL REVEALS
LAP SIDING
FIBERGLASS DOOR
SMOOTH CEMENTITOUS PANEL/TRIM
VINYL WINDOWS 
METAL GUARDRAIL
METAL GARAGE DOORS
METAL ROOF
FIBERGLASS LOUVERED DOOR
MATERIAL LIST
10
11
47'-10"
24'-4"
76'-0"
19'-10"
18'-2"
CL
CLCL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
COAT
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
COAT
76'-0"
47'-10"
19'-10"
18'-2"
76'-0"
13'-8"
13'-8"
24'-4"
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
18'-0" X 20'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
18'-0" X 20'-0"
10
3
10
3
3
4
8
6
3
8
4
4
7
8
10
8
7
8
4
6
3
3
5
4
9
3
6
4
4
7
3
3
11

--- page 86 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.3
1
2
1
2
4 UNIT TOWNHOME PERSPECTIVE
COLOR SCHEME-1
47'-10"
24'-4"
76'-0"
19'-10"
18'-2"
CL
CLCL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
COAT
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
COAT
76'-0"
47'-10"
19'-10"
18'-2"
76'-0"
13'-8"
13'-8"
24'-4"
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
18'-0" X 20'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
18'-0" X 20'-0"

--- page 87 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
13'-8"
24'-4"
108'-4"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
47'-10"
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
47'-10"
13'-8"
24'-4"
16'-2"
108'-4"
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
18'-0" X 20'-0"
18'-0" X 20'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
+/- 124.8’
+/- 124.5’
+/- 123.2’
+/- 123.2’
+/- 124.8’
+/- 124.5’
EGRESS PATH: 
(MAXIMUM 125’)
* SEE DIAGRAM 
2 ON SHEET 1.1 
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.4
1ST-2ND LEVELS
6 UNIT TOWNHOME
SECOND LEVEL PLAN
GROUND LEVEL PLAN
50'-2"
13'-8"
24'-4"
108'-4"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
13'-8"
24'-4"
16'-2"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
50'-2"
108'-4"
KEY MAP
2

--- page 88 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
13'-8"
22'-10"
105'-4"
18'-4"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
UP
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
13'-8"
22'-10"
16'-2"
18'-4"
18'-2"
16'-2"
105'-4"
49'-4"
EGRESS PATH: 
(MAXIMUM 125’)
* SEE DIAGRAM 
2 ON SHEET 1.1 
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.5
3RD-ROOF LEVELS
6 UNIT TOWNHOME
ROOF PLAN
3RD LEVEL PLAN
42'-10"
13'-8"
19'-0 1/2"
97'-9"
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
13'-8"
19'-0 1/2"
16'-2"
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
16'-2"
42'-10"
97'-9"
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
KEY MAP
2

--- page 89 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
42'-10"
13'-8"
19'-0 1/2"
97'-9"
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
13'-8"
19'-0 1/2"
16'-2"
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
16'-2"
42'-10"
97'-9"
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
GROSS AREA DIAGRAMS (PER SAN MATEO ZONING CODE)
THIRD LEVEL 
THIRD LEVEL 
FOURTH LEVEL
FOURTH LEVEL
FIRST LEVEL
FIRST LEVEL
SECOND LEVEL
SECOND LEVEL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DN
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DN
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DN
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DN
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
GROSS AREA
Area Calcs
CBC
San Mateo 
Gross
Floor 1
1561
1757.4
Floor 2
4415.4
4128.6
Floor 3
4442.6
4324.6
Floor 4
1170.8
410.4
Exterior
1061.6
N/A
Garage
3050
3161.4
Total
15701.4
13,782
TH ‐ 6‐Plex
T
AREA DIAGRAMS (PER C.B.C.)
CBC AREA
6 UNIT TOWNHOME
BUILDING AREA DIAGRAMS
3.6
2

--- page 90 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.7
4
1
3
2
2
1
3
4
REAR ELEVATION
L  ELEVATION
R ELEVATION
FRONT ELEVATION
COLOR SCHEME-2
6 UNIT TOWNHOME ELEVATIONS
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
9’-1”
10’-1”
8’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
38’-10”
T.O. S.F
T.O. PLATE
8’-1”
1’-2”
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
8’-1”
10’-1”
9’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
38’-10”
T.O. S.F
1’-2”
8’-1”
T.O. PLATE
+/- 40’- 0”
T.O.R.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
METAL TRELLIS
DECORATIVE AWNING
STUCCO FINISH W/MTL REVEALS
LAP SIDING
FIBERGLASS DOOR
SMOOTH CEMENTITOUS PANEL/TRIM
VINYL WINDOWS 
METAL GUARDRAIL
METAL GARAGE DOORS
METAL ROOF
FIBERGLASS LOUVERED DOOR
MATERIAL LIST
10
11
13'-8"
24'-4"
108'-4"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
47'-10"
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
47'-10"
13'-8"
24'-4"
16'-2"
108'-4"
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
18'-0" X 20'-0"
18'-0" X 20'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6
5
4
3
3
7
3
8
5
4
4
10
5
1
10
3
10
3
3
4
8
6
3
8
4
7
4
9
3
3
4
6
4
7
7
2
1
9
3
3
4
4
4
1
3
11

--- page 91 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.8
1
2
1
2
COLOR SCHEME-2
6 UNIT TOWNHOME PERSPECTIVE
13'-8"
24'-4"
108'-4"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
47'-10"
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
47'-10"
13'-8"
24'-4"
16'-2"
108'-4"
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
18'-0" X 20'-0"
18'-0" X 20'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"

--- page 92 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5'-9 1/2"
15'-7" (A-A)
Total travel distance
124'-2 1/2"
10'-11"
2'-1" (A-A)
1'-7 1/4"
13'-6" (A-A)
Total travel distance
124'- 6"
5'-9 1/2"
15'-7" (A-A)
Total travel distance
124'-2 1/2"
10'-11"
2'-1" (A-A)
1'-7 1/4"
13'-6" (A-A)
Total travel distance
124'- 6"
24'-4"
47'-10"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
124'-6"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
6'-9 3/4"
15'-7" (A-A)
Total travel distance
123'-1 3/4"
6'-9 3/4"
15'-7" (A-A)
Total travel distance
123'-1 3/4"
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
COAT
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
COAT
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
T
R
T
R
6'-9 3/4"
15'-7" (A-A)
Total travel distance
123'-1 3/4"
24'-4"
13'-8"
16'-2"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
47'-10"
124'-6"
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
18'-0" X 20'-0"
18'-0" X 20'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
42'-10"
15'-7" (A-A)
13'-6" (A-A)
42'-6 1/4"
42'-10"
15'-7" (A-A)
13'-6" (A-A)
42'-6 1/4"
16'-2"
13'-8"
24'-4"
124'-6"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
48'-3 3/4"
15'-7" (A-A)
48'-3 3/4"
15'-7" (A-A)
UP
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
COAT
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
LAUNDRY
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
LAUNDRY
UP
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
COAT
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
LAUNDRY
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
LAUNDRY
T
R
T
R
T
R
47'-10"
48'-3 3/4"
15'-7" (A-A)
13'-8"
24'-4"
16'-2"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
47'-10"
124'-6"
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
18'-0" X 20'-0"
18'-0" X 20'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
EGRESS PATH: 
(MUST BE LESS THAN 125’)
* SEE DIAGRAM 2 
ON SHEET 1.1 
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.9
GROUND LEVEL PLAN 
(SECOND LEVEL ENTRY)
GROUND LEVEL PLAN
1ST LEVELS
7 UNIT TOWNHOME
GROUND LEVEL ENTRY
SECOND LEVEL ENTRY
KEY MAP

--- page 93 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
50'-2"
16'-2"
13'-8"
24'-4"
124'-6"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
13'-11 3/4"
4'-4 3/4"
15'-7 1/2" (B-B)
3'-1 1/2" (B-B)
1'-0 1/2" (B-B)
2'-1" (B-B)
15'-7 1/2" (B-B)
15'-4"
1'-6 1/4"
13'-11 3/4"
4'-4 3/4"
15'-7 1/2" (B-B)
3'-1 1/2" (B-B)
1'-0 1/2" (B-B)
2'-1" (B-B)
15'-7 1/2" (B-B)
15'-4"
1'-6 1/4"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
1'-0 1/2" (B-B)
17'-8 1/2" (B-B)
18'-2 1/4"
1'-6 1/4"
1'-0 1/2" (B-B)
17'-8 1/2" (B-B)
18'-2 1/4"
1'-6 1/4"
UP
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
1'-0 1/2" (B-B)
17'-8 1/2" (B-B)
18'-2 1/4"
1'-6 1/4"
13'-8"
24'-4"
16'-2"
50'-2"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
124'-6"
50'-4"
16'-2"
13'-8"
22'-10"
121'-6"
18'-4"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
Total travel distance
96'-0 1/2" UP
76'-2" DOWN
17'-9" DOWN
4'-4 3/4"
15'-7 1/2" (B-B)
3'-1 1/2" (B-B)
7'-2 1/4" UP
18'-6" DOWN
Total travel distance
85'-4 3/4" UP
76'-7 1/4" DOWN
1'-0 1/2" (B-B)
2'-1" (B-B)
15'-7 1/2" (B-B)
1'-5 3/4"
1'-6 1/4"
4'-4" UP
Total travel distance
96'-0 1/2" UP
76'-2" DOWN
17'-9" DOWN
4'-4 3/4"
15'-7 1/2" (B-B)
3'-1 1/2" (B-B)
7'-2 1/4" UP
18'-6" DOWN
Total travel distance
85'-4 3/4" UP
76'-7 1/4" DOWN
1'-0 1/2" (B-B)
2'-1" (B-B)
15'-7 1/2" (B-B)
1'-5 3/4"
1'-6 1/4"
4'-4" UP
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
6'-2 3/4" UP
1'-6 1/4"
1'-0 1/2" (B-B)
17'-8 1/2" (B-B)
23'-6" DOWN
Total travel distance
88'-9 1/2" UP
87'-4 3/4" DOWN
6'-2 3/4" UP
1'-6 1/4"
1'-0 1/2" (B-B)
17'-8 1/2" (B-B)
23'-6" DOWN
Total travel distance
88'-9 1/2" UP
87'-4 3/4" DOWN
6'-2 3/4" UP
1'-6 1/4"
1'-0 1/2" (B-B)
17'-8 1/2" (B-B)
23'-6" DOWN
Total travel distance
88'-9 1/2" UP
87'-4 3/4" DOWN
UNIT C
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
13'-8"
22'-10"
16'-2"
18'-4"
18'-2"
16'-2"
121'-6"
50'-4"
EGRESS PATH: 
(MUST BE LESS THAN 125’)
* SEE DIAGRAM 2 
ON SHEET 1.1 
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.10
SECOND LEVEL PLAN
(SECOND LEVEL ENTRY)
SECOND LEVEL PLAN
2ND LEVELS
7 UNIT TOWNHOME
GROUND LEVEL ENTRY
SECOND LEVEL ENTRY
KEY MAP

--- page 94 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
3RD-ROOF LEVELS
7 UNIT TOWNHOME
EGRESS PATH: 
(MUST BE LESS THAN 125’)
* SEE DIAGRAM 2 
ON SHEET 1.1 
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.11
30'-6"
42'-10"
16'-2"
13'-8"
19'-0 1/2"
113'-11"
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
32'-9"
35'- 3 3/4"
32'-9"
35'- 3 3/4"
30'-6"
30'-6"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
DN
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
DN
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
16'-2"
13'-8"
19'-0 1/2"
16'-2"
42'-10"
113'-11"
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
4'x8' PV
PANELS
ROOF DECK PLAN
THIRD LEVEL PLAN
GROUND LEVEL ENTRY
SECOND LEVEL ENTRY
12'-7"
1'-8 1/2"
4'-1 1/4" (C-C)
13'-4 3/4" (C-C)
6'-6"
17'-6" (C-C)
15'-5 1/2"
17'-6" (C-C)
12'-7"
1'-8 1/2"
4'-1 1/4" (C-C)
13'-4 3/4" (C-C)
6'-6"
17'-6" (C-C)
15'-5 1/2"
17'-6" (C-C)
50'-4"
16'-2"
13'-8"
22'-10"
121'-6"
18'-4"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
12'-7"
1'-8 1/2"
4'-1 1/4" (C-C)
13'-4 3/4" (C-C)
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
UP
DN
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
13'-8"
22'-10"
16'-2"
18'-4"
18'-2"
16'-2"
50'-4"
121'-6"
KEY MAP

--- page 95 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
DN
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
DN
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
UP
DN
DN
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DN
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
UP
DN
DN
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DN
GROSS AREA DIAGRAMS (PER SAN MATEO ZONING CODE)
THIRD LEVEL 
THIRD LEVEL 
FOURTH LEVEL
FOURTH LEVEL
C
C
C
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
C
C
CL
C
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
UP
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
C
C
C
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
C
C
CL
C
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
UP
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
LAUNDRY
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
LAUNDRY
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
T
R
T
R
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
LAUNDRY
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
LAUNDRY
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
T
R
T
R
FIRST LEVEL
FIRST LEVEL
SECOND LEVEL
SECOND LEVEL
GROSS AREA
Area Calcs
CBC
San Mateo 
Gross
Floor 1
1735.6
1940.7
Floor
Floor 2
5117.3
4787.8
Floor
Floor 3
5136.4
5018.1
Floor
Floor 4
1367.3
461.7
Floor
Exterior
1255.6
N/A
Exterior
Garage
3604.8
3745
Garage
Total
18217
15,953
Total
TH ‐ 7‐Plex
T
AREA DIAGRAMS (PER C.B.C.)
CBC AREA
3.12
7 UNIT TOWNHOME
BUILDING AREA DIAGRAMS
42'-10"
16'-2"
13'-8"
19'-0 1/2"
113'-11"
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
DN
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
DN
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
16'-2"
13'-8"
19'-0 1/2"
16'-2"
42'-10"
113'-11"
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
4'x8' PV
PANELS
2

--- page 96 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
DN
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
DN
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
DN
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
DN
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
UP
DN
DN
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DN
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
UP
DN
DN
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DN
GROSS AREA DIAGRAMS (PER SAN MATEO ZONING CODE)
THIRD LEVEL 
THIRD LEVEL 
FOURTH LEVEL
FOURTH LEVEL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
21'-5"
40'-10"
4'-6"
13'-6"
16'-0"
16'-0"
13'-6"
21'-5"
16'-0"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
UP
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
LAUNDRY
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
LAUNDRY
UP
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
LAUNDRY
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
LAUNDRY
T
R
T
R
T
R
45'-4"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
UP
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
LAUNDRY
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
LAUNDRY
UP
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
LAUNDRY
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
LAUNDRY
T
R
T
R
T
R
FIRST LEVEL
FIRST LEVEL
SECOND LEVEL
SECOND LEVEL
GROSS AREA
Area Calcs
CBC
San Mateo 
Gross
Floor 1
1735.6
1940.7
Floor 2
5117.3
4777.2
Floor 3
5136.4
5018.1
Floor 4
1367.3
461.7
Exterior
1043.4
N/A
Garage
3604.8
3745
Total
18004.8
15,943
TH ‐ 7‐Plex 2nd Level Entry
AREA DIAGRAMS (PER C.B.C.)
CBC AREA
3.13
7 UNIT TOWNHOME - 2ND LEVEL ENTRY
BUILDING AREA DIAGRAMS
2

--- page 97 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.14
4
1
3
2
2
1
3
4
REAR ELEVATION
+/- 35’- 0”
T.O.R.
+/- 35’- 0”
T.O.R.
L  ELEVATION
R ELEVATION
FRONT ELEVATION
COLOR SCHEME-1
7 UNIT TOWNHOME ELEVATIONS
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
9’-1”
10’-1”
8’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
38’-10”
T.O. S.F
T.O. PLATE
8’-1”
1’-2”
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
8’-1”
10’-1”
9’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
38’-10”
T.O. S.F
1’-2”
8’-1”
T.O. PLATE
+/- 40’- 0”
T.O.R.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
METAL TRELLIS
DECORATIVE AWNING
STUCCO FINISH W/MTL REVEALS
LAP SIDING
FIBERGLASS DOOR
SMOOTH CEMENTITOUS PANEL/TRIM
VINYL WINDOWS 
METAL GUARDRAIL
METAL GARAGE DOORS
METAL ROOF
FIBERGLASS LOUVERED DOOR
MATERIAL LIST
10
11
11
24'-4"
47'-10"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
124'-6"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
COAT
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
COAT
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
T
R
T
R
24'-4"
13'-8"
16'-2"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
47'-10"
124'-6"
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
18'-0" X 20'-0"
18'-0" X 20'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6
5
4
3
3
1
5
3
8
5
10
3
10
3
3
4
8
3
4
4
7
9
9
6
3
3
4
4
4
6
8
7
4
7
4
4
10
6
3

--- page 98 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
7 UNIT TOWNHOME PERSPECTIVES
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.15
1
2
1
2
COLOR SCHEME-1
24'-4"
47'-10"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
124'-6"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
COAT
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
COAT
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
T
R
T
R
24'-4"
13'-8"
16'-2"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
47'-10"
124'-6"
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
18'-0" X 20'-0"
18'-0" X 20'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"

--- page 99 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.16
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
4
1
3
2
2
1
3
4
REAR ELEVATION
+/- 40’- 0”
T.O.R.
+/- 35’- 0”
T.O.R.
L  ELEVATION
R ELEVATION
FRONT ELEVATION
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
METAL TRELLIS
DECORATIVE AWNING
STUCCO FINISH W/MTL REVEALS
LAP SIDING
FIBERGLASS DOOR
SMOOTH CEMENTITOUS PANEL/TRIM
VINYL WINDOWS 
METAL GUARDRAIL
METAL GARAGE DOORS
METAL ROOF
MATERIAL LIST
10
COLOR SCHEME-2
7 UNIT TOWNHOME ELEVATIONS
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
9’-1”
10’-1”
8’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
38’-10”
T.O. S.F
T.O. PLATE
8’-1”
1’-2”
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
8’-1”
10’-1”
9’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
38’-10”
T.O. S.F
1’-2”
8’-1”
T.O. PLATE
+/- 40’- 0”
T.O.R.
10
3
10
3
3
4
8
3
4
7
9
9
6
3
3
6
8
4
4
7
6
5
4
3
3
5
3
8
5
4
1
4
7
4
10
6
3

--- page 100 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.17
1
2
1
2
COLOR SCHEME-2
7 UNIT TOWNHOME PERSPECTIVES
24'-4"
47'-10"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
124'-6"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
COAT
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
COAT
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
T
R
T
R
24'-4"
13'-8"
16'-2"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
47'-10"
124'-6"
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
18'-0" X 20'-0"
18'-0" X 20'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"

--- page 101 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.18
4
1
3
2
2
1
3
4
REAR ELEVATION
L  ELEVATION
R ELEVATION
FRONT ELEVATION
COLOR SCHEME-2
SECOND LEVEL ENTRY
7 UNIT TOWNHOME ELEVATIONS
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
9’-1”
10’-1”
8’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
38’-10”
T.O. S.F
T.O. PLATE
8’-1”
1’-2”
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
8’-1”
10’-1”
9’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
38’-10”
T.O. S.F
1’-2”
8’-1”
T.O. PLATE
+/- 40’- 0”
T.O.R.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
METAL TRELLIS
DECORATIVE AWNING
STUCCO FINISH W/MTL REVEALS
LAP SIDING
FIBERGLASS DOOR
SMOOTH CEMENTITOUS PANEL/TRIM
VINYL WINDOWS 
METAL GUARDRAIL
METAL GARAGE DOORS
METAL ROOF
FIBERGLASS LOUVERED DOOR
MATERIAL LIST
10
11
11
16'-2"
13'-8"
24'-4"
124'-6"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
UP
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
COAT
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
LAUNDRY
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
LAUNDRY
UP
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
COAT
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
LAUNDRY
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
LAUNDRY
T
R
T
R
T
R
47'-10"
13'-8"
24'-4"
16'-2"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
47'-10"
124'-6"
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
18'-0" X 20'-0"
18'-0" X 20'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6
5
4
3
3
7
4
8
5
4
2
8
2
4
10
1
10
3
10
3
3
4
4
6
3
8
4
7
4
9
3
3
4
6
4
7
7
2
1
3
9
3
3
4
4
3
2
1
3

--- page 102 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.19
1
2
1
2
7 UNIT TOWNHOME PERSPECTIVE
COLOR SCHEME-2
SECOND LEVEL ENTRY
16'-2"
13'-8"
24'-4"
124'-6"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
UP
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
COAT
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
LAUNDRY
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
LAUNDRY
UP
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
COAT
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
LAUNDRY
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
LAUNDRY
T
R
T
R
T
R
47'-10"
13'-8"
24'-4"
16'-2"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
47'-10"
124'-6"
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
18'-0" X 20'-0"
18'-0" X 20'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"

--- page 103 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
16'-2"
13'-8"
24'-4"
140'-8"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
47'-10"
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
16'-2"
13'-8"
24'-4"
16'-2"
47'-10"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
140'-8"
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
18'-0" X 20'-0"
18'-0" X 20'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
+/- 124.8’
+/- 124.5’
+/- 123.2’
+/- 123.2’
+/- 123.2’
+/- 123.2’
+/- 124.8’
+/- 124.5’
EGRESS PATH: 
(MAXIMUM 125’)
* SEE DIAGRAM 
2 ON SHEET 1.1 
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.20
1ST-2ND LEVELS
8 UNIT TOWNHOME
SECOND LEVEL PLAN
GROUND LEVEL PLAN
16'-2"
13'-8"
24'-4"
140'-8"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
UNIT C
UP
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
16'-2"
13'-8"
24'-4"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
50'-8"
50'-8"
140'-8"
KEY MAP
2

--- page 104 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
22'-10"
50'-4"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
137'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
17'-10"
18'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
UP
DN
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
UNIT C2r
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
22'-10"
50'-4"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
17'-10"
18'-2"
136'-8"
EGRESS PATH: 
(MAXIMUM 125’)
* SEE DIAGRAM 
2 ON SHEET 1.1 
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.21
3RD-ROOF LEVELS
8 UNIT TOWNHOME
ROOF PLAN
3RD LEVEL PLAN
19'-0 1/2"
42'-10"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
130'-1"
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
DN
ROOF DECK
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
UNIT C2r
DN
ROOF DECK
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
19'-0 1/2"
42'-10"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
130'-1"
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
KEY MAP
2

--- page 105 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
19'-0 1/2"
42'-10"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
130'-1"
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
DN
ROOF DECK
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
UNIT C2r
DN
ROOF DECK
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
19'-0 1/2"
42'-10"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
130'-1"
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
DN
ROOF DECK
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
UNIT C2r
DN
ROOF DECK
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
UP
DN
DN
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DN
UNIT C2r
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
UP
DN
DN
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DN
UNIT C2r
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
GROSS AREA DIAGRAMS (PER SAN MATEO ZONING CODE)
THIRD LEVEL 
THIRD LEVEL 
FOURTH LEVEL
FOURTH LEVEL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
FIRST LEVEL
FIRST LEVEL
SECOND LEVEL
SECOND LEVEL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
UNIT C
UP
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
UNIT C
UP
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
GROSS AREA
Area Calcs
CBC
San Mateo 
Gross
Floor 1
1910.2
2124
Floor
Floor 2
5819.2
5447
Floor
Floor 3
5830.2
5692.8
Floor
Floor 4
1563.8
513
Floor
Exterior
1345.4
N/A
Garage
4159.6
4328.6
Total
20628.4
18,105
Total
TH ‐ 8‐Plex
AREA DIAGRAMS (PER C.B.C.)
CBC AREA
3.22
8 UNIT TOWNHOME
BUILDING AREA DIAGRAMS
2

--- page 106 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
16'-2"
13'-8"
24'-4"
140'-8"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
47'-10"
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
16'-2"
13'-8"
24'-4"
16'-2"
47'-10"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
140'-8"
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
18'-0" X 20'-0"
18'-0" X 20'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.23
4
1
3
2
2
1
3
4
REAR ELEVATION
L  ELEVATION
R ELEVATION
FRONT ELEVATION
COLOR SCHEME-1
8 UNIT TOWNHOME ELEVATIONS
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
9’-1”
10’-1”
8’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
38’-10”
T.O. S.F
T.O. PLATE
8’-1”
1’-2”
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
8’-1”
10’-1”
9’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
38’-10”
T.O. S.F
1’-2”
8’-1”
T.O. PLATE
+/- 40’- 0”
T.O.R.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
METAL TRELLIS
DECORATIVE AWNING
STUCCO FINISH W/MTL REVEALS
LAP SIDING
FIBERGLASS DOOR
SMOOTH CEMENTITOUS PANEL/TRIM
VINYL WINDOWS 
METAL GUARDRAIL
METAL GARAGE DOORS
METAL ROOF
FIBERGLASS LOUVERED DOOR
MATERIAL LIST
10
11
11
6
5
4
3
3
5
3
8
5
4
2
7
8
4
10
1
10
3
10
3
3
4
8
6
3
8
4
7
4
4
9
3
3
4
6
4
7
2
1
3
4
9
3
4
6
4
7
7
2
1
3

--- page 107 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.24
1
2
1
2
COLOR SCHEME-1
8 UNIT TOWNHOME PERSPECTIVE
16'-2"
13'-8"
24'-4"
140'-8"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
47'-10"
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
16'-2"
13'-8"
24'-4"
16'-2"
47'-10"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
140'-8"
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
18'-0" X 20'-0"
18'-0" X 20'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"

--- page 108 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
16'-2"
13'-8"
24'-4"
156'-10"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
47'-10"
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
16'-2"
13'-8"
24'-4"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
47'-10"
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
18'-0" X 20'-0"
18-0" X 20'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
+/- 123.2’
+/- 123.2’
+/- 123.2’
+/- 123.2’
+/- 123.2’
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.25
1ST-2ND LEVELS
9 UNIT TOWNHOME
SECOND LEVEL PLAN
GROUND LEVEL PLAN
24'-4"
50'-8"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
156'-10"
16'-2"
16'-2"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
UNIT C
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
UNIT C
UP
DN
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
50'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
19'-10"
18'-2"
24'-4"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
156'-10"
KEY MAP
+/- 124.8’
+/- 124.5’
+/- 124.8’
+/- 124.5’
EGRESS PATH: 
(MAXIMUM 125’)
* SEE DIAGRAM 
2 ON SHEET 1.1 
2

--- page 109 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
22'-10"
49'-4"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
153'-10"
16'-2"
16'-2"
18'-4"
18'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
UP
DN
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
UP
DN
UNIT C2r
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
22'-10"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
49'-4"
16'-2"
16'-2"
18'-4"
18'-2"
16'-2"
153'-10"
19'-0 1/2"
42'-10"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
146'-3"
16'-2"
16'-2"
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
DN
ROOF DECK
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
DN
ROOF DECK
UNIT C2r
DN
ROOF DECK
19'-0 1/2"
42'-10"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
146'-3"
4'x8' PV
PANELS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
EGRESS PATH: 
(MAXIMUM 125’)
* SEE DIAGRAM 
2 ON SHEET 1.1 
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.26
3RD-ROOF LEVELS
9 UNIT TOWNHOME
ROOF PLAN
3RD LEVEL PLAN
KEY MAP
2

--- page 110 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
19'-0 1/2"
42'-10"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
146'-3"
16'-2"
16'-2"
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
DN
ROOF DECK
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
DN
ROOF DECK
UNIT C2r
DN
ROOF DECK
19'-0 1/2"
42'-10"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
146'-3"
4'x8' PV
PANELS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
DN
ROOF DECK
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
DN
ROOF DECK
UNIT C2r
DN
ROOF DECK
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
UP
DN
DN
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
UP
DN
DN
UNIT C2r
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
UP
DN
DN
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
UP
DN
DN
UNIT C2r
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
GROSS AREA DIAGRAMS (PER SAN MATEO ZONING CODE)
THIRD LEVEL 
THIRD LEVEL 
FOURTH LEVEL
FOURTH LEVEL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
FIRST LEVEL
FIRST LEVEL
SECOND LEVEL
SECOND LEVEL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
UNIT C
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
UNIT C
UP
DN
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
UNIT C
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
UNIT C
UP
DN
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
GROSS AREA
Area Calcs
CBC
San Mateo 
Gross
Floor 1
2084.8
2307.3
Floor
Floor 2
6521.1
6106.2
Floor
Floor 3
6524
6386.3
Floor
Floor 4
1760.3
564.3
Floor
Exterior
1539.4
N/A
Garage
4714.4
4912.2
Total
23144
20,276
Total
TH ‐ 9‐Plex
T
AREA DIAGRAMS (PER C.B.C.)
CBC AREA
3.27
9 UNIT TOWNHOME
BUILDING AREA DIAGRAMS
2

--- page 111 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.28
4
1
3
2
2
1
3
4
REAR ELEVATION
L  ELEVATION
R ELEVATION
FRONT ELEVATION
COLOR SCHEME-1
9 UNIT TOWNHOME ELEVATIONS
10
3
10
3
3
4
8
6
3
8
4
7
4
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
9’-1”
10’-1”
8’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
38’-10”
T.O. S.F
T.O. PLATE
8’-1”
1’-2”
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
9’-1”
10’-1”
8’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
38’-10”
T.O. S.F
T.O. PLATE
8’-1”
1’-2”
+/- 40’- 0”
T.O.R.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
METAL TRELLIS
DECORATIVE AWNING
STUCCO FINISH W/MTL REVEALS
LAP SIDING
FIBERGLASS DOOR
SMOOTH CEMENTITOUS PANEL/TRIM
VINYL WINDOWS 
METAL GUARDRAIL
METAL GARAGE DOORS
METAL ROOF
FIBERGLASS LOUVERED DOOR
MATERIAL LIST
10
11
11
6
5
4
3
3
5
3
8
5
4
2
7
8
4
10
1
6
4
16'-2"
13'-8"
24'-4"
156'-10"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
47'-10"
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
16'-2"
13'-8"
24'-4"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
47'-10"
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
18'-0" X 20'-0"
18-0" X 20'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
4
9
3
3
4
6
4
7
7
2
1
3
4
9
3
3
3
6
4
7
7
2
1
3

--- page 112 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.29
1
2
1
2
9 UNIT TOWNHOME PERSPECTIVE
COLOR SCHEME-1
16'-2"
13'-8"
24'-4"
156'-10"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
47'-10"
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
16'-2"
13'-8"
24'-4"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
47'-10"
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
18'-0" X 20'-0"
18-0" X 20'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"

--- page 113 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.30
4
1
3
2
2
1
3
4
REAR ELEVATION
L  ELEVATION
R ELEVATION
FRONT ELEVATION
COLOR SCHEME-2
9 UNIT TOWNHOME ELEVATIONS
10
3
10
3
3
4
8
6
3
8
4
7
4
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
9’-1”
10’-1”
8’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
38’-10”
T.O. S.F
T.O. PLATE
8’-1”
1’-2”
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
9’-1”
10’-1”
8’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
38’-10”
T.O. S.F
T.O. PLATE
8’-1”
1’-2”
+/- 40’- 0”
T.O.R.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
METAL TRELLIS
DECORATIVE AWNING
STUCCO FINISH W/MTL REVEALS
LAP SIDING
FIBERGLASS DOOR
SMOOTH CEMENTITOUS PANEL/TRIM
VINYL WINDOWS 
METAL GUARDRAIL
METAL GARAGE DOORS
METAL ROOF
FIBERGLASS LOUVERED DOOR
MATERIAL LIST
10
11
11
16'-2"
13'-8"
24'-4"
156'-10"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
47'-10"
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
COAT
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
UNIT C2r
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
16'-2"
13'-8"
24'-4"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
47'-10"
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
18'-0" X 20'-0"
18-0" X 20'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6
5
4
3
3
5
3
8
5
4
2
7
8
4
10
1
6
2
4
9
3
3
4
6
4
7
7
2
1
3
3
9
3
3
4
6
4
7
7
2
1
3

--- page 114 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.31
1
2
1
2
9 UNIT TOWNHOME PERSPECTIVE
COLOR SCHEME-2
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
UNIT C2r
UNIT C2r
UNIT C2r

--- page 115 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
24'-4"
47'-10"
13'-8"
16'-2"
173'-0"
16'-2"
19'-10"
18'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
16'-2"
16'-2"
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
T
R
T
R
T
R
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
DROP
ZONE
DROP
ZONE
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
STORAGE
STORAGE
STORAGE
COAT
COAT
UNIT C2
UNIT C2r
T
R
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
DROP
ZONE
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
STORAGE
24'-4"
47'-10"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
173'-0"
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
18'-0" X 20'-0"
18'-0" X 20'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
+/- 123.2’
+/- 123.2’
+/- 123.2’
+/- 123.2’
+/- 123.2’
+/- 123.2’
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.32
1ST-2ND LEVELS
10 UNIT TOWNHOME
SECOND LEVEL PLAN
GROUND LEVEL PLAN
24'-4"
50'-2"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A
UNIT B
UNIT C
UNIT C
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT Cr
UNIT Cr
UNIT C
CL
CL
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
PWDR.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
LAUNDRY
24'-4"
50'-2"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
173'-0"
KEY MAP
+/- 124.8’
+/- 124.5’
+/- 124.8’
+/- 124.5’
EGRESS PATH: 
(MAXIMUM 125’)
* SEE DIAGRAM 
2 ON SHEET 1.1 
2

--- page 116 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
22'-10"
50'-4"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
170'-0"
16'-2"
16'-2"
18'-4"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DN
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
UP
DN
UP
DN
UP
DN
UP
UP
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
22'-10"
50'-4"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
18'-4"
18'-2"
16'-2"
170'-0"
19'-0 1/2"
42'-10"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
162'-5"
16'-2"
16'-2"
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
19'-0 1/2"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
42'-10"
16'-2"
16'-2"
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
16'-2"
162'-5"
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8 PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
EGRESS PATH: 
(MAXIMUM 125’)
* SEE DIAGRAM 
2 ON SHEET 1.1 
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.33
3RD-ROOF LEVELS
10 UNIT TOWNHOME
ROOF PLAN
3RD LEVEL PLAN
KEY MAP
2

--- page 117 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DN
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
UP
DN
UP
DN
UP
DN
DN
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DN
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
MASTER
BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
UP
DN
UP
DN
UP
DN
DN
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
GROSS AREA DIAGRAMS (PER SAN MATEO ZONING CODE)
THIRD LEVEL 
THIRD LEVEL 
FOURTH LEVEL
FOURTH LEVEL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
CL
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
T
R
T
R
T
R
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
DROP
ZONE
DROP
ZONE
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
STORAGE
STORAGE
STORAGE
COAT
COAT
UNIT C2
UNIT C2r
T
R
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
DROP
ZONE
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
STORAGE
CL
CL
CL
L
L
L
L
L
CL
CL
L
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
CL
L
UNIT C2r
CL
L
CL
L
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
T
R
T
R
T
R
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
DROP
ZONE
DROP
ZONE
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
STORAGE
STORAGE
STORAGE
COAT
COAT
UNIT C2
UNIT C2r
T
R
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
DROP
ZONE
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
STORAGE
FIRST LEVEL
FIRST LEVEL
SECOND LEVEL
SECOND LEVEL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A
UNIT B
UNIT C
UNIT C
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT Cr
UNIT Cr
UNIT C
CL
CL
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
PWDR.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
LAUNDRY
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A
UNIT B
UNIT C
UNIT C
UNIT Br
UNIT Ar
UNIT Cr
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT Cr
UNIT Cr
UNIT C
CL
CL
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
DECK
OPEN TO ABOVE
UP
OPEN TO ABOVE
PWDR.
DN
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
DN
DECK
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
BEDROOM 3
10'-1" CLG.
LIVING
10'-1" CLG.
COAT
BATH 3
10'-1" CLG.
UP
UP
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
PWDR.
DINING
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
KITCHEN
10'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
LAUNDRY
GROSS AREA
Area Calcs
CBC
San Mateo 
Gross
Floor 1
2084.8
2490.6
Floor 2
7223
6765.4
Floor 3
7217.8
7061
Floor 4
1956.8
615.6
Exterior
1629.2
N/A
Garage
5269.2
5495.8
SFD
Total
25380.8
22,428
SFD
TH ‐ 10‐Plex
AREA DIAGRAMS (PER C.B.C.)
CBC AREA
3.34
10 UNIT TOWNHOME
BUILDING AREA DIAGRAMS
19'-0 1/2"
42'-10"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
162'-5"
16'-2"
16'-2"
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT C2
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
DN
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
19'-0 1/2"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
42'-10"
16'-2"
16'-2"
14'-6 1/2"
18'-2"
16'-2"
162'-5"
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8 PV
PANELS
TRELLIS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
4'x8' PV
PANELS
2

--- page 118 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.35
4
1
3
2
2
1
3
4
REAR ELEVATION
L  ELEVATION
R ELEVATION
FRONT ELEVATION
COLOR SCHEME-2
10 UNIT TOWNHOME ELEVATIONS
10
3
10
3
3
4
8
6
3
8
4
7
4
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
9’-1”
10’-1”
8’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
38’-10”
T.O. S.F
T.O. PLATE
8’-1”
1’-2”
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
9’-1”
10’-1”
8’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
38’-10”
T.O. S.F
T.O. PLATE
8’-1”
1’-2”
+/- 40’- 0”
T.O.R.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
METAL TRELLIS
DECORATIVE AWNING
STUCCO FINISH W/MTL REVEALS
LAP SIDING
FIBERGLASS DOOR
SMOOTH CEMENTITOUS PANEL/TRIM
VINYL WINDOWS 
METAL GUARDRAIL
METAL GARAGE DOORS
METAL ROOF
FIBERGLASS LOUVERED DOOR
MATERIAL LIST
10
11
11
6
5
4
3
3
5
3
8
5
4
2
7
3
4
10
1
8
4
3
1
3
24'-4"
47'-10"
13'-8"
16'-2"
173'-0"
16'-2"
19'-10"
18'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
16'-2"
16'-2"
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
T
R
T
R
T
R
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
DROP
ZONE
DROP
ZONE
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
STORAGE
STORAGE
STORAGE
COAT
COAT
UNIT C2
UNIT C2r
T
R
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
DROP
ZONE
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
STORAGE
24'-4"
47'-10"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
173'-0"
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
18'-0" X 20'-0"
18'-0" X 20'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
4
9
3
3
4
6
4
7
7
3
1
3
4
9
3
3
4
6
4
7
7
3
1
3
4

--- page 119 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.36
1
2
1
2
10 UNIT TOWNHOME PERSPECTIVE
COLOR SCHEME-2
24'-4"
47'-10"
13'-8"
16'-2"
173'-0"
16'-2"
19'-10"
18'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
UNIT A2
UNIT B2
UNIT C2
UNIT C2
UNIT B2r
UNIT A2r
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
16'-2"
16'-2"
UNIT C2r
CL
CL
16'-2"
16'-2"
CL
CL
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
T
R
T
R
T
R
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
2-CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
BEDROOM 4
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
STORAGE
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
UP
UP
DROP
ZONE
DROP
ZONE
DROP
ZONE
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
STORAGE
STORAGE
STORAGE
COAT
COAT
UNIT C2
UNIT C2r
T
R
T
R
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
2-CAR
TANDEM GARAGE
8'-1" CLG. ABV. T.O. CURB
UP
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
PORCH
DROP
ZONE
DROP
ZONE
STORAGE
STORAGE
24'-4"
47'-10"
13'-8"
16'-2"
16'-2"
19'-10"
18'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
16'-2"
173'-0"
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
FIRE
METER
CLOSET
18'-0" X 20'-0"
18'-0" X 20'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
36'-0" X 10'-0"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"
6'-0"X 2'-6"

--- page 120 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
3.37
TOWNHOME  SECTIONS
GROUND LEVEL ENTRY
SECOND LEVEL ENTRY

--- page 121 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
+/- 81.7’
+/- 81.7’
+/-58.6’
+/-80.9’
+/-80.9’
+/-58.6’
EXIT ACCESS PATH
EGRESS PATH: 
(MAXIMUM 125’)
* SEE DIAGRAM 
2 ON SHEET 1.1 
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
4.0
1ST-4TH LEVELS
SECOND LEVEL PLAN
GROUND LEVEL PLAN
6 UNIT TH OVER FLATS
3RD LEVEL PLAN
4TH LEVEL PLAN
KEY MAP

--- page 122 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
4.1
ROOF PLAN
ROOF PLAN 
6 UNIT TH OVER FLATS 
KEY MAP
2

--- page 123 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
GROSS AREA DIAGRAMS (PER SAN MATEO ZONING CODE)
THIRD LEVEL 
THIRD LEVEL 
FOURTH LEVEL
FOURTH LEVEL
FIRST LEVEL
FIRST LEVEL
SECOND LEVEL
SECOND LEVEL
GROSS AREA
Area Calcs
CBC
San Mateo 
Gross
Floor 1
347
845
Floor
Floor 2
3,130
3,145
Floor 3
2,927
3,175
Floor 4
2,691
2,579
Exterior
1815
N/A
Garage
2,978
3,040
Total
13887.2
12,784
Stack ‐ 6‐plex
Stack
UP
UP
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
FIRE
RM.
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
METER
CLOSET
ENTRY
PWDR.
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
COAT
ENTRY
PWDR.
COAT
6'-0" X 2'-6"
UP
UP
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
FIRE
RM.
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
METER
CLOSET
ENTRY
PWDR.
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
COAT
ENTRY
PWDR.
COAT
6'-0" X 2'-6"
AREA DIAGRAMS (PER C.B.C.)
CBC AREA
4.2
6 UNIT TH OVER FLATS
BUILDING AREA DIAGRAMS

--- page 124 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
6 UNIT TH OVER FLATS ELEVATIONS - PITCH ROOF 
COLOR SCHEME-2
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
4.3
1
2
4
3
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
COMP SHINGLE ROOF
DECORATIVE METAL AWNING
STUCCO FINISH W/MTL REVEALS
LAP SIDING
FIBERGLASS DOOR
SMOOTH CEMENTITIOUS PANEL/TRIM
VINYL WINDOWS 
METAL GUARDRAIL
METAL GARAGE DOORS
MATERIAL LIST
3
6
1
2
4
3
5
8
2
7
4
3
10
6
3
2
8
3
8
7
OPENINGS 
(35 S.F.  MIN. 
PER FLOOR)
3
8
4
4
3
1
8
3
10
4
6
3
4
3
10
6
7
REAR ELEVATION
L  ELEVATION
R ELEVATION
FRONT ELEVATION
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
10’-1”
10’-1”
8’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
40’-10”
T.O. S.F
T.O. PLATE
9’-1”
1’-2”
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
8’-1”
10’-1”
10’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
40’-10”
T.O. S.F
1’-2”
9’-1”
T.O. PLATE
+/- 46’- 0”
T.O.R.

--- page 125 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
4.4
1
2
1
2
6 UNIT TH OVER FLATS  PERSPECTIVES - PITCH ROOF
COLOR SCHEME-2

--- page 126 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
EGRESS PATH: 
(MUST BE LESS THAN 125’)
* SEE DIAGRAM 2 
ON SHEET 1.1 
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
4.5
1ST LEVELS
12 UNIT TH OVER FLATS
UP
UP
149'-5"
4'-9 1/4"
2'-0 1/2" (C-C)
1'-2 1/4
15'-5 1/2" (C-C)
Total travel distance
85'-3 1/2"
15'-5 1/2" (C-C)
1'-9 1/4"
2'-0 1/2" (C-C)
2'-9 3/4"
Total travel distance
81'-8 3/4"
UP
UP
4'-9 1/4"
2'-0 1/2" (C-C)
1'-2 1/4
15'-5 1/2" (C-C)
Total travel distance
85'-3 1/2"
15'-5 1/2" (C-C)
1'-9 1/4"
2'-0 1/2" (C-C)
2'-9 3/4"
Total travel distance
81'-8 3/4"
54'-6"
FIRE
RM.
FIRE
RM.
ENTRY
PWDR.
14'-5 1/4"
39'-0"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
14'-5 1/4"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
39'-0"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
COAT
ENTRY
COAT
ENTRY
PWDR.
COAT
ENTRY
COAT
15'-1 1/2"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
33'-1"
12'-0"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
15'-1 1/2"
3'-0"
12'-1 1/2"
54'-6"
6'-8 1/2"
37'-9 1/2"
8'-0"
2'-0"
2'-10 3/4"
3'-0"
6'-8 1/2"
37'-9 1/2"
8'-0"
2'-0"
149'-5"
16'-9 1/2"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
10'-5"
13'-8"
13'-8"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
132'-7 1/2"
16'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
13'-9 1/2"
13'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
GROUND LEVEL PLAN
(SECOND LEVEL ENTRY)
GROUND LEVEL PLAN
UP
149'-5"
'-0 1/2" (C-C)
1'-2 1/4
15'-5 1/2" (C-C)
15'-5 1/2" (C-C)
1'-9 1/4"
2'-0 1/2" (C
)
'-0 1/2" (C-C)
1'-2 1/4
15'-5 1/2" (C-C)
54'-6"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
FIRE
RM.
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
METER
CLOSET
PWDR.
14'-5 1/4"
39'-0"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
14'-5 1/4"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
39'-0"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
COAT
COAT
PWDR.
COAT
COAT
15'-1 1/2"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
12'-0"
12'-0"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
15'-1 1/2"
3'-0"
12'-1 1/2"
54'-6"
8'-6"
37'-4 1/2"
6'-7 1/2"
2'-0"
12'-1 1/2"
3'-0"
8'-6"
37'-4 1/2"
6'-7 1/2"
2'-0"
149'-5"
16'-9 1/2"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
10'-5"
13'-8"
13'-8"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
10'-5"
16'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
13'-9 1/2"
13'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
UP
UP
UP
15'-5 1/2" (C-C)
1'-9 1/4"
2'-0 1/2" (C
)
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
50'-2 3/4"
50'-2 3/4"
48'-6 1/4"
48'-6 1/4"
41'-8 1/2"
41'-8 1/2"
41'-8 1/2"
41'-8 1/2"
41'-8 1/2"
41'-8 1/2"
41'-8 1/2"
41'-8 1/2"
GROUND LEVEL ENTRY
SECOND LEVEL ENTRY
KEY MAP

--- page 127 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
EGRESS PATH: 
(MUST BE LESS THAN 125’)
* SEE DIAGRAM 2 
ON SHEET 1.1 
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
DN
W
D
W
D
DN
DN
W
D
W
D
DN
149'-5"
55'-6"
DN
DN
DN
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 2
BEDROOM 3
MASTER
BATH
BATH 2
LNDY.
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
DEN
KITCHEN
DINING
LIVING
MASTER
BATH
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
BATH 2
LNDY.
BEDROOM 2
LIVING
DINING
KITCHEN
DECK
BEDROOM 2
BEDROOM 3
MASTER
BATH
BATH 2
LNDY.
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
DEN
KITCHEN
DINING
LIVING
MASTER
BATH
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
BATH 2
LNDY.
BEDROOM 2
LIVING
DINING
KITCHEN
149'-5"
55'-6"
35'-9 1/2"
35'-9 1/2"
38'-11"
38'-11"
35'-9 1/2"
35'-9 1/2"
38'-11"
9'-6"
32'-11 1/2"
11'-0 1/2"
2'-0"
9'-6"
32'-11 1/2"
2'-0"
3'-6"
12'-10 1/2"
22'-11"
3'-6"
8'-2"
27'-3"
12'-10 1/2"
22'-11"
3'-0"
13'-9 1/2"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
10'-5"
13'-8"
13'-8"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
10'-5"
13'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
38'-11"
8'-2"
27'-3"
11'-0 1/2"
UP
DN
DN
UP
DN
DN
DN
DN
UP
DN
UP
DN
DECK
DECK
75'-6 1/2"
Total travel distance
75'-6 1/2"
91'-1" DOWN
21'-7" DOWN
75'-6 1/2"
Total travel distance
75'-6 1/2"
91'-1" DOWN
21'-7" DOWN
76'-8 1/4"
76'-8 1/4"
Total travel distance
76'-8 1/4"
94'-0 1/2" DOWN
26'-10" DOWN
26'-10" DOWN
Total travel distance
76'-8 1/4"
94'-0 1/2" DOWN
4.6
KEY MAP
2ND LEVELS
12 UNIT TH OVER FLATS
SECOND LEVEL PLAN
(SECOND LEVEL ENTRY)
SECOND LEVEL PLAN
DN
W
D
61'-10"
W
D
DN
59'-7 3/4"
DN
W
D
61'-10"
W
D
DN
59'-7 3/4"
149'-5"
55'-6"
UP
UP
UP
UP
DN
DN
DN
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 2
BEDROOM 3
MASTER
BATH
BATH 2
LNDY.
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
DEN
KITCHEN
DINING
LIVING
MASTER
BATH
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
BATH 2
LNDY.
BEDROOM 2
LIVING
DINING
KITCHEN
UP
UP
DECK
BEDROOM 2
BEDROOM 3
MASTER
BATH
BATH 2
LNDY.
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
DEN
KITCHEN
DINING
LIVING
MASTER
BATH
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
BATH 2
LNDY.
BEDROOM 2
LIVING
DINING
KITCHEN
149'-5"
55'-6"
35'-9 1/2"
35'-9 1/2"
38'-11"
38'-11"
35'-9 1/2"
35'-9 1/2"
38'-11"
7'-8 1/2"
37'-9 1/2"
8'-0"
2'-0"
7'-8 1/2"
37'-9 1/2"
2'-0"
3'-6"
12'-10 1/2"
22'-11"
3'-6"
9'-0"
26'-5"
12'-10 1/2"
22'-11"
3'-0"
13'-9 1/2"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
10'-5"
13'-8"
13'-8"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
10'-5"
13'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
38'-11"
9'-0"
26'-5"
8'-0"
DECK
DECK
GROUND LEVEL ENTRY
SECOND LEVEL ENTRY

--- page 128 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
EGRESS PATH: 
(MAXIMUM 125’)
* SEE DIAGRAM 
2 ON SHEET 1.1 
EXIT ACCESS PATH
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
4.7
KEY MAP
3RD LEVELS
12 UNIT TH OVER FLATS
GROUND LEVEL ENTRY
SECOND LEVEL ENTRY
55'-6"
147'-5"
UP
UP
EGRESS
BALCONY 1
DECK
EGRESS
BALCONY 2
DN
UP
DECK
DN
UP
UP
UP
DECK
EGRESS
BALCONY 2
EGRESS
BALCONY 1
DECK
DN
DN
UP
UP
KITCHEN
LIVING
KITCHEN
KITCHEN
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
KITCHEN
BEDROOM 3
DINING
KITCHEN
KITCHEN
KITCHEN
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
KITCHEN
BEDROOM 3
55'-6"
147'-5"
20'-2 3/4"
17'-8 1/4"
18'-0 3/4"
17'-8 3/4"
17'-8 3/4"
18'-0 3/4"
17'-8 1/4"
20'-2 3/4"
15'-9 1/2"
10'-5"
11'-9"
11'-8"
10'-5"
27'-4"
10'-5"
23'-5"
10'-5"
15'-9 1/2"
1'-6"
18'-8 3/4"
4'-9 3/4"
12'-10 1/2"
12'-10 1/2"
5'-2 1/4"
5'-2 1/4"
12'-10 1/2"
12'-10 1/2"
4'-9 3/4"
18'-8 3/4"
1'-6"
10'-9 1/2"
31'-8"
11'-0 1/2"
2'-0"
2'-0"
11'-0 1/2"
31'-8"
10'-9 1/2"
2'-0"
13'-9 1/2"
2'-0"
13'-9 1/2"
LIVING
LIVING
LIVING
LIVING
LIVING
LIVING
LIVING
DINING
DINING
DINING
DINING
DINING
DINING
DINING
55'-6"
147'-5"
UP
UP
EGRESS
BALCONY 1
DECK
EGRESS
BALCONY 2
UP
DECK
UP
UP
UP
DECK
EGRESS
BALCONY 2
EGRESS
BALCONY 1
DECK
UP
UP
DINING
KITCHEN
LIVING
KITCHEN
KITCHEN
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
KITCHEN
BEDROOM 3
KITCHEN
KITCHEN
KITCHEN
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
KITCHEN
BEDROOM 3
55'-6"
147'-5"
20'-2 3/4"
17'-8 1/4"
18'-0 3/4"
17'-8 3/4"
17'-8 3/4"
18'-0 3/4"
17'-8 1/4"
20'-2 3/4"
15'-9 1/2"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
10'-5"
27'-4"
10'-5"
23'-5"
10'-5"
15'-9 1/2"
1'-6"
18'-8 3/4"
4'-9 3/4"
12'-10 1/2"
12'-10 1/2"
5'-2 1/4"
5'-2 1/4"
12'-10 1/2"
12'-10 1/2"
4'-9 3/4"
18'-8 3/4"
1'-6"
10'-9 1/2"
31'-8"
11'-0 1/2"
2'-0"
2'-0"
11'-0 1/2"
31'-8"
10'-9 1/2"
2'-0"
13'-9 1/2"
2'-0"
13'-9 1/2"
DN
DN
DN
DN
LIVING
LIVING
LIVING
LIVING
LIVING
LIVING
LIVING
DINING
DINING
DINING
DINING
DINING
DINING
DINING
THIRD LEVEL PLAN
(SECOND LEVEL ENTRY)
THIRD LEVEL PLAN
TRAVEL 
DISTANCE: 
80.9’
TRAVEL 
DISTANCE: 
80.9’
TRAVEL 
DISTANCE: 
80.9’
TRAVEL 
DISTANCE: 
80.9’
TRAVEL 
DISTANCE: 
80.9’
TRAVEL 
DISTANCE: 
80.9’
TRAVEL 
DISTANCE: 
80.9’
TRAVEL 
DISTANCE: 
80.9’
TRAVEL 
DISTANCE: 
58.6’
TRAVEL 
DISTANCE: 
58.6’
TRAVEL 
DISTANCE: 
58.6’
TRAVEL 
DISTANCE: 
58.6’
TRAVEL 
DISTANCE: 
58.1’
TRAVEL 
DISTANCE: 
58.1’
TRAVEL 
DISTANCE: 
58.1’
TRAVEL 
DISTANCE: 
58.1’

--- page 129 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
EXIT ACCESS PATH
EGRESS PATH: 
(MAXIMUM 125’)
* SEE DIAGRAM 
2 ON SHEET 1.1 
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
4.8
4TH-ROOF LEVELS
12 UNIT TH OVER FLATS
GROUND LEVEL ENTRY
SECOND LEVEL ENTRY
144'-5"
47'-11"
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
47'-11"
144'-5"
2'-0"
36'-11 1/2"
10'-11 1/2"
36'-11 1/2"
10'-11 1/2"
18'-4 3/4"
18'-0 1/4"
18'-0 3/4"
17'-8 3/4"
17'-8 3/4"
18'-0 3/4"
18'-0 1/4"
18'-4 3/4"
18'-4 3/4"
18'-0 1/4"
18'-0 1/4"
17'-9 1/4"
17'-9 1/4"
18'-0 1/4"
18'-0 1/4"
18'-4 3/4"
5'-10 1/4"
12'-2"
12'-2"
5'-10 1/4"
4'-3 3/4"
13'-5 1/2"
13'-5 1/2"
4'-3 3/4"
5'-10 1/4"
12'-2"
12'-2"
5'-10 1/4"
MASTER
BEDROOM
WIC
MASTER
BATH
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
WIC
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
MASTER
BATH
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
MASTER
BATH
MASTER
BEDROOM
WIC
MASTER
BATH
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
BATH 2
BEDROOM 2
MASTER
BATH
WIC
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
BATH 2
BEDROOM 2
MASTER
BATH
WIC
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
MASTER
BATH
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
MASTER
BATH
WIC
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LIN
LIN
LIN
LIN
LIN
LIN
ROOF LEVEL PLAN
(FLAT)
FOURTH LEVEL PLAN
KEY MAP
2

--- page 130 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
4.9
ROOF LEVELS
12 UNIT TH OVER FLATS
GROUND LEVEL ENTRY
SECOND LEVEL ENTRY
ROOF LEVEL PLAN
KEY MAP
2

--- page 131 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
UP
UP
EGRESS
BALCONY 1
DECK
EGRESS
BALCONY 2
DN
UP
DECK
DN
UP
UP
UP
DECK
EGRESS
BALCONY 2
EGRESS
BALCONY 1
DECK
DN
DN
UP
UP
CAFE
KITCHEN
GATHERING
GATHERING
CAFE
KITCHEN
CAFE
KITCHEN
GATHERING
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
KITCHEN
CAFE
GATHERING
BEDROOM 3
CAFE
KITCHEN
GATHERING
GATHERING
CAFE
KITCHEN
CAFE
KITCHEN
GATHERING
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
KITCHEN
CAFE
GATHERING
BEDROOM 3
UP
UP
EGRESS
BALCONY 1
DECK
EGRESS
BALCONY 2
DN
UP
DECK
DN
UP
UP
UP
DECK
EGRESS
BALCONY 2
EGRESS
BALCONY 1
DECK
DN
DN
UP
UP
CAFE
KITCHEN
GATHERING
GATHERING
CAFE
KITCHEN
CAFE
KITCHEN
GATHERING
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
KITCHEN
CAFE
GATHERING
BEDROOM 3
CAFE
KITCHEN
GATHERING
GATHERING
CAFE
KITCHEN
CAFE
KITCHEN
GATHERING
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
KITCHEN
CAFE
GATHERING
BEDROOM 3
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
MASTER
BEDROOM
WIC
MASTER
BATH
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
WIC
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
MASTER
BATH
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
MASTER
BATH
MASTER
BEDROOM
WIC
MASTER
BATH
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
BATH 2
BEDROOM 2
MASTER
BATH
WIC
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
BATH 2
BEDROOM 2
MASTER
BATH
WIC
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
MASTER
BATH
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
MASTER
BATH
WIC
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LIN
LIN
LIN
LIN
LIN
LIN
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
MASTER
BEDROOM
WIC
MASTER
BATH
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
WIC
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
MASTER
BATH
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
MASTER
BATH
MASTER
BEDROOM
WIC
MASTER
BATH
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
BATH 2
BEDROOM 2
MASTER
BATH
WIC
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
BATH 2
BEDROOM 2
MASTER
BATH
WIC
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
MASTER
BATH
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
MASTER
BATH
WIC
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LIN
LIN
LIN
LIN
LIN
LIN
GROSS AREA DIAGRAMS (PER SAN MATEO ZONING CODE)
THIRD LEVEL 
THIRD LEVEL 
FOURTH LEVEL
FOURTH LEVEL
UP
UP
UP
UP
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
FIRE
RM.
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
FIRE
RM.
ENTRY
PWDR.
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
COAT
ENTRY
COAT
ENTRY
PWDR.
COAT
ENTRY
COAT
UP
UP
UP
UP
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
FIRE
RM.
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
FIRE
RM.
ENTRY
PWDR.
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
COAT
ENTRY
COAT
ENTRY
PWDR.
COAT
ENTRY
COAT
DN
W
D
W
D
DN
DN
W
D
W
D
DN
UP
UP
UP
UP
DN
DN
DN
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 2
BEDROOM 3
MASTER
BATH
BATH 2
LNDY.
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
DEN
KITCHEN
DINING
LIVING
MASTER
BATH
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
BATH 2
LNDY.
BEDROOM 2
LIVING
DINING
KITCHEN
UP
UP
DECK
BEDROOM 2
BEDROOM 3
MASTER
BATH
BATH 2
LNDY.
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
DEN
KITCHEN
DINING
LIVING
MASTER
BATH
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
BATH 2
LNDY.
BEDROOM 2
LIVING
DINING
KITCHEN
DECK
DECK
DN
W
D
W
D
DN
DN
W
D
W
D
DN
UP
UP
UP
UP
DECK
BEDROOM 2
BEDROOM 3
MASTER
BATH
BATH 2
LNDY.
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
DEN
KITCHEN
DINING
LIVING
MASTER
BATH
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
BATH 2
LNDY.
BEDROOM 2
LIVING
DINING
KITCHEN
UP
UP
DECK
BEDROOM 2
BEDROOM 3
MASTER
BATH
BATH 2
LNDY.
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
DEN
KITCHEN
DINING
LIVING
MASTER
BATH
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
BATH 2
LNDY.
BEDROOM 2
LIVING
DINING
KITCHEN
FIRST LEVEL
FIRST LEVEL
SECOND LEVEL
SECOND LEVEL
GROSS AREA
Area Calcs
CBC
San Mateo 
Gross
Floor 1
639
1458.6
Floor 2
6032.6
5997.9
Floor 3
5876.2
6320
Floor
Floor 4
5536.2
5283.2
Exterior
3541.6
N/A
Garage
5948.8
6043.24
Total
27574.4
25,103
Stack ‐ 12‐plex 1st Level Entry
AREA DIAGRAMS (PER C.B.C.)
CBC AREA
4.10
12 UNIT TH OVER FLATS
BUILDING AREA DIAGRAMS

--- page 132 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
GROSS AREA DIAGRAMS (PER SAN MATEO ZONING CODE)
THIRD LEVEL 
THIRD LEVEL 
FOURTH LEVEL
FOURTH LEVEL
FIRST LEVEL
FIRST LEVEL
SECOND LEVEL
SECOND LEVEL
GROSS AREA
Area Calcs
CBC
San Mateo 
Gross
Floor 1
639
1458.6
Floor
Floor 2
6032.6
5997.9
Floor
Floor 3
5876.2
6295.4
Floor
Floor 4
5536.2
5283.2
Floor
Exterior
3584.2
N/A
Exterior
Garage
5948.8
6043.24
Total
27617
25,078
Total
Stack ‐ 12‐plex 2nd Level Entry
TH
UP
UP
EGRESS
BALCONY 1
DECK
EGRESS
BALCONY 2
UP
DECK
UP
UP
UP
DECK
EGRESS
BALCONY 2
EGRESS
BALCONY 1
DECK
UP
UP
CAFE
KITCHEN
GATHERING
GATHERING
CAFE
KITCHEN
CAFE
KITCHEN
GATHERING
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
KITCHEN
CAFE
GATHERING
BEDROOM 3
CAFE
KITCHEN
GATHERING
GATHERING
CAFE
KITCHEN
CAFE
KITCHEN
GATHERING
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
KITCHEN
CAFE
GATHERING
BEDROOM 3
DN
DN
DN
DN
UP
UP
EGRESS
BALCONY 1
DECK
EGRESS
BALCONY 2
UP
DECK
UP
UP
UP
DECK
EGRESS
BALCONY 2
EGRESS
BALCONY 1
DECK
UP
UP
CAFE
KITCHEN
GATHERING
GATHERING
CAFE
KITCHEN
CAFE
KITCHEN
GATHERING
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
KITCHEN
CAFE
GATHERING
BEDROOM 3
CAFE
KITCHEN
GATHERING
GATHERING
CAFE
KITCHEN
CAFE
KITCHEN
GATHERING
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
PWDR.
KITCHEN
CAFE
GATHERING
BEDROOM 3
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
MASTER
BEDROOM
WIC
MASTER
BATH
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
WIC
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
MASTER
BATH
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
MASTER
BATH
MASTER
BEDROOM
WIC
MASTER
BATH
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
BATH 2
BEDROOM 2
MASTER
BATH
WIC
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
BATH 2
BEDROOM 2
MASTER
BATH
WIC
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
MASTER
BATH
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
MASTER
BATH
WIC
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LIN
LIN
LIN
LIN
LIN
LIN
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
MASTER
BEDROOM
WIC
MASTER
BATH
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
WIC
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
MASTER
BATH
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
MASTER
BATH
MASTER
BEDROOM
WIC
MASTER
BATH
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
BATH 2
BEDROOM 2
MASTER
BATH
WIC
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
BATH 2
BEDROOM 2
MASTER
BATH
WIC
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
MASTER
BATH
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
WIC
MASTER
BEDROOM
MASTER
BATH
WIC
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LNDY
LIN
LIN
LIN
LIN
LIN
LIN
UP
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
FIRE
RM.
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
METER
CLOSET
PWDR.
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
COAT
COAT
PWDR.
COAT
COAT
UP
UP
UP
UP
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
FIRE
RM.
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 8'-6"
METER
CLOSET
PWDR.
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
COAT
COAT
PWDR.
COAT
COAT
UP
UP
UP
DN
W
D
W
D
DN
DN
W
D
W
D
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 2
BEDROOM 3
MASTER
BATH
BATH 2
LNDY.
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
DEN
KITCHEN
DINING
LIVING
MASTER
BATH
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
BATH 2
LNDY.
BEDROOM 2
LIVING
DINING
KITCHEN
DECK
BEDROOM 2
BEDROOM 3
MASTER
BATH
BATH 2
LNDY.
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
DEN
KITCHEN
DINING
LIVING
MASTER
BATH
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
BATH 2
LNDY.
BEDROOM 2
LIVING
DINING
KITCHEN
UP
DN
DN
UP
DN
DN
DN
DN
UP
DN
UP
DN
DN
W
D
W
D
DN
DN
W
D
W
D
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
DECK
BEDROOM 2
BEDROOM 3
MASTER
BATH
BATH 2
LNDY.
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
DEN
KITCHEN
DINING
LIVING
MASTER
BATH
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
BATH 2
LNDY.
BEDROOM 2
LIVING
DINING
KITCHEN
DECK
BEDROOM 2
BEDROOM 3
MASTER
BATH
BATH 2
LNDY.
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
DEN
KITCHEN
DINING
LIVING
MASTER
BATH
MASTER
BEDROOM
DECK
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
W.I.C.
BATH 2
LNDY.
BEDROOM 2
LIVING
DINING
KITCHEN
UP
DN
DN
UP
DN
DN
DN
DN
UP
DN
UP
DN
AREA DIAGRAMS (PER C.B.C.)
CBC AREA
4.11
12 UNIT TH OVER FLATS - 2ND LEVEL ENTRY
BUILDING AREA DIAGRAMS

--- page 133 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
12 UNIT TH OVER FLATS ELEVATIONS 
COLOR SCHEME-1
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
4.12
1
2
4
3
UP
UP
FLAT B
149'-5"
UP
UP
54'-6"
TH B
TH A
TH A
TH C
FLAT A
FLAT A
TH C
TH A
TH B
FLAT B
FIRE
RM.
FIRE
RM.
TH A
ENTRY
PWDR.
14'-5 1/4"
39'-0"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
14'-5 1/4"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
39'-0"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
COAT
ENTRY
COAT
ENTRY
PWDR.
COAT
ENTRY
COAT
15'-1 1/2"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
33'-1"
12'-0"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
15'-1 1/2"
3'-0"
12'-1 1/2"
54'-6"
6'-8 1/2"
37'-9 1/2"
8'-0"
2'-0"
2'-10 3/4"
3'-0"
6'-8 1/2"
37'-9 1/2"
8'-0"
2'-0"
149'-5"
16'-9 1/2"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
10'-5"
13'-8"
13'-8"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
132'-7 1/2"
16'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
13'-9 1/2"
13'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
5
2
1
2
4
3
1
8
2
7
4
1
3
2
3
6
6
3
2
8
6
9
4
8
3
1
5
3
8
4
4
1
5
8
2
3
2
4
3
1
2
7
3
4
3
2
6
1
1
REAR ELEVATION
L  ELEVATION
R ELEVATION
FRONT ELEVATION
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
10’-1”
10’-1”
8’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
40’-10”
T.O. S.F
T.O. PLATE
9’-1”
1’-2”
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
8’-1”
10’-1”
10’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
40’-10”
T.O. S.F
1’-2”
9’-1”
T.O. PLATE
+/- 46’- 0”
T.O.R.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
STONE VENEER
DECORATIVE METAL AWNING
STUCCO FINISH W/MTL REVEALS
LAP SIDING
FIBERGLASS DOOR
SMOOTH CEMENTITOUS PANEL/TRIM
VINYL WINDOWS 
METAL GUARDRAIL
METAL GARAGE DOORS
MATERIAL LIST
OPENINGS 
(35 S.F.  MIN. 
PER FLOOR)

--- page 134 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
4.13
1
2
UP
UP
FLAT-B
149'-5"
UP
UP
54'-6"
TH-B
TH-A
TH-A
REVERSED
TH-C
FLAT-A
FLAT-A
REVERSED
TH-C
REVERSED
TH-A
TH-B
FLAT-B
REVERSED
FIRE
RM.
FIRE
RM.
TH-A
REVERSED
ENTRY
PWDR.
14'-5 1/4"
39'-0"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
14'-5 1/4"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
39'-0"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
COAT
ENTRY
COAT
ENTRY
PWDR.
COAT
ENTRY
COAT
15'-1 1/2"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
33'-1"
12'-0"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
15'-1 1/2"
3'-0"
12'-1 1/2"
54'-6"
6'-8 1/2"
37'-9 1/2"
8'-0"
2'-0"
2'-10 3/4"
3'-0"
6'-8 1/2"
37'-9 1/2"
8'-0"
2'-0"
149'-5"
16'-9 1/2"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
10'-5"
13'-8"
13'-8"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
132'-7 1/2"
16'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
13'-9 1/2"
13'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
1
2
12 UNIT TH OVER FLATS  PERSPECTIVES
COLOR SCHEME-1

--- page 135 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
12 UNIT TH OVER FLATS ELEVATIONS  - PITCHED ROOF
COLOR SCHEME-2
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
4.14
1
2
4
3
UP
UP
149'-5"
UP
UP
54'-6"
FIRE
RM.
FIRE
RM.
ENTRY
PWDR.
14'-5 1/4"
39'-0"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
14'-5 1/4"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
39'-0"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
COAT
ENTRY
COAT
ENTRY
PWDR.
COAT
ENTRY
COAT
15'-1 1/2"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
33'-1"
12'-0"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
15'-1 1/2"
3'-0"
12'-1 1/2"
54'-6"
6'-8 1/2"
37'-9 1/2"
8'-0"
2'-0"
2'-10 3/4"
3'-0"
6'-8 1/2"
37'-9 1/2"
8'-0"
2'-0"
149'-5"
16'-9 1/2"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
10'-5"
13'-8"
13'-8"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
132'-7 1/2"
16'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
13'-9 1/2"
13'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
5
3
1
2
4
3
3
8
2
7
4
3
3
7
3
6
6
3
6
8
6
9
3
8
3
3
5
3
8
4
4
5
3
8
6
3
7
4
3
3
2
4
3
4
3
1
6
7
1
REAR ELEVATION
L  ELEVATION
R ELEVATION
FRONT ELEVATION
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
10’-1”
10’-1”
8’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
40’-10”
T.O. S.F
T.O. PLATE
9’-1”
1’-2”
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
8’-1”
10’-1”
10’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
40’-10”
T.O. S.F
1’-2”
9’-1”
T.O. PLATE
+/- 46’- 0”
T.O.R.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
COMP SHINGLE ROOF
DECORATIVE METAL AWNING
STUCCO FINISH W/MTL REVEALS
LAP SIDING
FIBERGLASS DOOR
SMOOTH CEMENTITIOUS PANEL/TRIM
VINYL WINDOWS 
METAL GUARDRAIL
METAL GARAGE DOORS
MATERIAL LIST
OPENINGS 
(35 S.F.  MIN. 
PER FLOOR)

--- page 136 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
4.15
1
2
UP
UP
FLAT-B
149'-5"
UP
UP
54'-6"
TH-B
TH-A
TH-A
REVERSED
TH-C
FLAT-A
FLAT-A
REVERSED
TH-C
REVERSED
TH-A
TH-B
FLAT-B
REVERSED
FIRE
RM.
FIRE
RM.
TH-A
REVERSED
ENTRY
PWDR.
14'-5 1/4"
39'-0"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
14'-5 1/4"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
39'-0"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
COAT
ENTRY
COAT
ENTRY
PWDR.
COAT
ENTRY
COAT
15'-1 1/2"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
33'-1"
12'-0"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
15'-1 1/2"
3'-0"
12'-1 1/2"
54'-6"
6'-8 1/2"
37'-9 1/2"
8'-0"
2'-0"
2'-10 3/4"
3'-0"
6'-8 1/2"
37'-9 1/2"
8'-0"
2'-0"
149'-5"
16'-9 1/2"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
10'-5"
13'-8"
13'-8"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
132'-7 1/2"
16'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
13'-9 1/2"
13'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
1
2
12 UNIT TH OVER FLATS  PERSPECTIVES - PITCHED ROOF
COLOR SCHEME-2

--- page 137 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
12 UNIT TH OVER FLATS ELEVATIONS 
COLOR SCHEME-1
SECOND LEVEL ENTRY
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
4.16
1
2
4
3
UP
149'-5"
54'-6"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
FIRE
RM.
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
METER
CLOSET
PWDR.
14'-5 1/4"
39'-0"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
14'-5 1/4"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
39'-0"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
COAT
COAT
PWDR.
COAT
COAT
15'-1 1/2"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
12'-0"
12'-0"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
15'-1 1/2"
3'-0"
12'-1 1/2"
54'-6"
8'-6"
37'-4 1/2"
6'-7 1/2"
2'-0"
12'-1 1/2"
3'-0"
8'-6"
37'-4 1/2"
6'-7 1/2"
2'-0"
149'-5"
16'-9 1/2"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
10'-5"
13'-8"
13'-8"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
10'-5"
16'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
13'-9 1/2"
13'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
UP
UP
UP
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
5
2
1
2
4
3
1
8
2
3
4
1
3
2
3
6
6
3
2
8
6
9
8
8
8
3
5
1
8
5
4
1
8
2
3
2
4
3
1
2
4
3
4
3
2
6
1
REAR ELEVATION
L  ELEVATION
R ELEVATION
FRONT ELEVATION
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
10’-1”
10’-1”
8’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
40’-10”
T.O. S.F
T.O. PLATE
9’-1”
1’-2”
+/- 46’- 0”
T.O.R.
5
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
STONE VENEER
DECORATIVE METAL AWNING
STUCCO FINISH W/MTL REVEALS
LAP SIDING
FIBERGLASS DOOR
SMOOTH CEMENTITOUS PANEL/TRIM
VINYL WINDOWS 
METAL GUARDRAIL
METAL GARAGE DOORS
MATERIAL LIST
OPENINGS 
(35 S.F.  MIN. 
PER FLOOR)

--- page 138 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
4.17
1
2
UP
149'-5"
54'-6"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
FIRE
RM.
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
METER
CLOSET
PWDR.
14'-5 1/4"
39'-0"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
14'-5 1/4"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
39'-0"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
COAT
COAT
PWDR.
COAT
COAT
15'-1 1/2"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
12'-0"
12'-0"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
15'-1 1/2"
3'-0"
12'-1 1/2"
54'-6"
8'-6"
37'-4 1/2"
6'-7 1/2"
2'-0"
12'-1 1/2"
3'-0"
8'-6"
37'-4 1/2"
6'-7 1/2"
2'-0"
149'-5"
16'-9 1/2"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
10'-5"
13'-8"
13'-8"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
10'-5"
16'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
13'-9 1/2"
13'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
UP
UP
UP
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
1
2
12 UNIT TH OVER FLATS  PERSPECTIVES
COLOR SCHEME-1
SECOND LEVEL ENTRY

--- page 139 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
12 UNIT TH OVER FLATS ELEVATIONS - PITCHED ROOF 
COLOR SCHEME-1
SECOND LEVEL ENTRY
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
4.18
1
2
4
3
UP
149'-5"
54'-6"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
FIRE
RM.
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
METER
CLOSET
PWDR.
14'-5 1/4"
39'-0"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
14'-5 1/4"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
39'-0"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
COAT
COAT
PWDR.
COAT
COAT
15'-1 1/2"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
12'-0"
12'-0"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
15'-1 1/2"
3'-0"
12'-1 1/2"
54'-6"
8'-6"
37'-4 1/2"
6'-7 1/2"
2'-0"
12'-1 1/2"
3'-0"
8'-6"
37'-4 1/2"
6'-7 1/2"
2'-0"
149'-5"
16'-9 1/2"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
10'-5"
13'-8"
13'-8"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
10'-5"
16'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
13'-9 1/2"
13'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
UP
UP
UP
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
5
3
1
2
4
3
1
8
2
7
4
1
3
2
3
7
6
3
6
8
6
9
8
8
8
3
5
1
8
4
4
1
8
2
3
7
4
3
1
7
4
3
4
3
3
6
1
10
REAR ELEVATION
L  ELEVATION
R ELEVATION
FRONT ELEVATION
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
10’-1”
10’-1”
8’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
40’-10”
T.O. S.F
T.O. PLATE
9’-1”
1’-2”
+/- 46’- 0”
T.O.R.
5
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
STONE VENEER
DECORATIVE METAL AWNING
STUCCO FINISH W/MTL REVEALS
LAP SIDING
FIBERGLASS DOOR
SMOOTH CEMENTITOUS PANEL/TRIM
VINYL WINDOWS 
METAL GUARDRAIL
METAL GARAGE DOORS
MATERIAL LIST
OPENINGS 
(35 S.F.  MIN. 
PER FLOOR)

--- page 140 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
4.19
1
2
UP
149'-5"
54'-6"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
FIRE
RM.
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
METER
CLOSET
PWDR.
14'-5 1/4"
39'-0"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
14'-5 1/4"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
39'-0"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
COAT
COAT
PWDR.
COAT
COAT
15'-1 1/2"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
12'-0"
12'-0"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
15'-1 1/2"
3'-0"
12'-1 1/2"
54'-6"
8'-6"
37'-4 1/2"
6'-7 1/2"
2'-0"
12'-1 1/2"
3'-0"
8'-6"
37'-4 1/2"
6'-7 1/2"
2'-0"
149'-5"
16'-9 1/2"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
10'-5"
13'-8"
13'-8"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
10'-5"
16'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
13'-9 1/2"
13'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
UP
UP
UP
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
1
2
12 UNIT TH OVER FLATS  PERSPECTIVES - PITCHED ROOF
COLOR SCHEME-1
SECOND LEVEL ENTRY

--- page 141 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
4.20
5
2
1
2
4
3
3
8
2
7
4
3
3
2
3
6
6
3
2
8
3
9
3
8
8
3
5
3
8
5
6
4
5
3
8
2
3
2
4
3
3
2
4
3
4
3
2
6
7
6
1
2
4
3
UP
UP
149'-5"
UP
UP
54'-6"
FIRE
RM.
FIRE
RM.
ENTRY
PWDR.
14'-5 1/4"
39'-0"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
14'-5 1/4"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
39'-0"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
COAT
ENTRY
COAT
ENTRY
PWDR.
COAT
ENTRY
COAT
15'-1 1/2"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
33'-1"
12'-0"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
15'-1 1/2"
3'-0"
12'-1 1/2"
54'-6"
6'-8 1/2"
37'-9 1/2"
8'-0"
2'-0"
2'-10 3/4"
3'-0"
6'-8 1/2"
37'-9 1/2"
8'-0"
2'-0"
149'-5"
16'-9 1/2"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
10'-5"
13'-8"
13'-8"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
132'-7 1/2"
16'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
13'-9 1/2"
13'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
12 UNIT TH OVER FLATS ELEVATIONS 
COLOR SCHEME-2
SECOND LEVEL ENTRY
REAR ELEVATION
L  ELEVATION
R ELEVATION
FRONT ELEVATION
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. PLATE
T.O. S.F
T.O. S.F
T.O. GRADE
10’-1”
10’-1”
8’-1”
1’-2”
1’-2”
40’-10”
T.O. S.F
T.O. PLATE
9’-1”
1’-2”
+/- 46’- 0”
T.O.R.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
NOT USED
DECORATIVE METAL AWNING
STUCCO FINISH W/MTL REVEALS
LAP SIDING
FIBERGLASS DOOR
SMOOTH CEMENTITIOUS PANEL/TRIM
VINYL WINDOWS 
METAL GUARDRAIL
METAL GARAGE DOORS
MATERIAL LIST
OPENINGS 
(35 S.F.  MIN. 
PER FLOOR)

--- page 142 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
4.21
1
2
1
2
UP
149'-5"
54'-6"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
FIRE
RM.
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH C
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH A
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - TH B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
GARAGE - FLAT B
2-CAR TANDEM
36' X 10'-0"
METER
CLOSET
PWDR.
14'-5 1/4"
39'-0"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
11'-5 1/4"
14'-5 1/4"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
40'-3 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
44'-11 1/2"
42'-6 1/2"
39'-0"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
6'-0" X 2'-6"
COAT
COAT
PWDR.
COAT
COAT
15'-1 1/2"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
12'-0"
12'-0"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
11'-10 3/4"
15'-1 1/2"
3'-0"
12'-1 1/2"
54'-6"
8'-6"
37'-4 1/2"
6'-7 1/2"
2'-0"
12'-1 1/2"
3'-0"
8'-6"
37'-4 1/2"
6'-7 1/2"
2'-0"
149'-5"
16'-9 1/2"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
10'-5"
13'-8"
13'-8"
10'-5"
11'-8 1/2"
11'-8 1/2"
10'-5"
16'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
13'-9 1/2"
13'-9 1/2"
3'-0"
UP
UP
UP
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
6'-0" X 2'-6"
CEILING MOUNT
12 UNIT TH OVER FLATS  PERSPECTIVES
COLOR SCHEME-2
SECOND LEVEL ENTRY

--- page 143 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
4.22
TH OVER FLATS  SECTIONS
GROUND LEVEL ENTRY
SECOND LEVEL ENTRY
SECOND LEVEL ENTRY (PASEO VIEW)
SECOND LEVEL ENTRY (ELEVATION)

--- page 144 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
JOB NO.
DATE
N
5.0
03-17-20
ELEVATIONS AND PLANS
TRASH ENCLOSURE
1
4
FRONT ELEVATION
2
3
LEFT ELEVATION
REAR ELEVATION
RIGHT ELEVATION
3
4
2
1
8’-0” CLR
+/- 11’- 8”
T.O.R.
16x12 CONCRETE APRON
1
2
3
STUCCO
STANDING METAL SEAM ROOF
LAP SIDING
MATERIAL LIST
2
1
3
2
3
3
1
2
1
3
2
3

--- page 145 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
6.0
SITE ROOF OPTION AND COLOR SCHEME MAP
COLOR SCHEME-1
PITCHED ROOF
TOWNHOME & TH OVER FLAT BLDGS - STYLES
SFD UNITS
TOWNHOME BUILDINGS - UNIT COUNT
TH OVER FLATS BUILDINGS - UNIT COUNT
COLOR SCHEME-2
TOWNHOME (1st Level Entry)
TOWNHOME (2nd Level Entry)
TH OVER FLATS (1st Level Entry)
TH OVER FLATS (2nd Level Entry)
SFD 1-COLOR SCHEME 1
S1
S1
S2
S2
SFD 1-COLOR SCHEME 2
SFD 2-COLOR SCHEME 1
SFD 2-COLOR SCHEME 2
7
7(2)
12
12(2)
7
7
7
7
9
7
12(2)
6
12(2)
12(2)
12(2)
4
8
10
6
7(2)
9
6
8
12
12
12
12
12
S1
S1
S2
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S2
S1

--- page 146 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
MATERIALS
1. STUCCO
    SAND FINISH
2. CEMENT. 
    PANEL & TRIM 
3. VINYL WINDOW
   
A:	 	
AGREEABLE GRAY- SW 7029
	
	
B:	 	
VERMILION - SW 2914
C:	 	
GRIFFIN - SW 7026
4. METAL HORIZONTAL 
    RAILING
5. BOARD AND BATTEN
6. STONE VENEER
CS-1:
COLOR AND MATERIAL BOARD 
PENINSULA HEIGHTS
D:	 	
SPECIAL GRAY - SW 6277
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
6.1
COLOR SCHEME-1
SFD 1 MATERIAL BOARD
2C
5C
1A
4C
4
B
6
3
1A
1D
2C
C
6

--- page 147 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
MATERIALS
3. VINYL WINDOW
   
A:	 	
DRIFT OF MIST- SW 9166
D:	 	
SOLITUDE- SW 6535
B:	 	
SUNRISE - SW 6668
C:	 	
GRIFFIN - SW 7026
4. METAL HORIZONTAL 
    RAILING
5. BOARD AND BATTEN
CS-2:
COLOR AND MATERIAL BOARD 
PENINSULA HEIGHTS
6. STONE VENEER
1. STUCCO
    SAND FINISH
2. CEMENT. 
    PANEL & TRIM 
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
6.2
COLOR SCHEME-2
SFD 1 MATERIAL BOARD
5D
2C
5C
1A
2C
B
6
3
1A
2C
C
6

--- page 148 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
MATERIALS
A:	 	
GOSSAMER VEIL- SW 9165
	
	
B:	 	
SPECIAL GRAY - SW 6277
C:	 	
ORGANIC GREEN - SW 6732
5. METAL HORIZONTAL 
    RAILING
CS-1:
D:	 	
IRON ORE - SW 7069
COLOR AND MATERIAL BOARD 
PENINSULA HEIGHTS
6. STONE VENEER
2. LAP SIDING
1. STUCCO
    SAND FINISH
3. CEMENTITIOUS. 
    PANEL & TRIM 
4. VINYL WINDOW
    
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
6.3
COLOR SCHEME-1
SFD 2 MATERIAL BOARD
D
1A
2B
1A
4
2B
D
1A
6
C
5D
6
1A

--- page 149 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
MATERIALS
A:	 	
ZIRCON- SW 7667
	
	
B:	 	
MOODY BLUE - SW 6221
C:	 	
ENJOYABLE YELLOW - SW 6666
5. METAL HORIZONTAL 
    RAILING
CS-2:
D:	 	
IRON ORE - SW 7069
COLOR AND MATERIAL BOARD 
PENINSULA HEIGHTS
6. STONE VENEER
2. LAP SIDING
1. STUCCO
    SAND FINISH
3. CEMENTITIOUS. 
    PANEL & TRIM 
4. VINYL WINDOW
    
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
6.4
COLOR SCHEME-2
SFD 2 MATERIAL BOARD
D
1A
2B
1A
4
2B
D
1A
6
C
5D
6
1A

--- page 150 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
MATERIALS
5. METAL ROOF: 
    SLATE GREY
G:		
ANJOU PEAR - SW 6381
B:	 	
AGREEABLE GRAY - SW 7029
	
	
C:	 	
TIKI HUT - SW 7509
F:	 	
PERLE NOIR - SW 9154
A:	 	
PEARLY WHITE - SW 7009
D:	 	
GAUNTLET FRAY - SW 7019
6. METAL HORIZONTAL 
    RAILING
7. DECORATIVE SOFFIT
E:	 	
DEBONAIR - SW 9139
CS-1:
E
2B
1D
1A
4C
4
6C
C
G
F
2C
5F
3C
C
2E
3C
C
7B
2B
A
1D
1A
2E
COLOR AND MATERIAL BOARD 
PENINSULA HEIGHTS
2. LAP SIDING
1. STUCCO
    SAND FINISH
3. CEMENTITIOUS. 
    PANEL & TRIM 
4. VINYL WINDOW
    
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
6.5
COLOR SCHEME-1
TOWNHOME MATERIAL BOARD

--- page 151 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
MATERIALS
5. METAL ROOF: 
    SLATE GREY
B:	 	
SKYLINE STEEL - SW 1015
	
	
C:	 	
EARL GRAY - SW 7660
E:	 	
BAGUETTE - SW 6123
A:	 	
SNOWFALL- SW 6000
6. METAL HORIZONTAL 
    RAILING
7. DECORATIVE SOFFIT
D:	 	
PORPOISE - SW 7047
CS-2:
1C
4D
D
F
D
2D
5D
3D
D
2B
1A
2E
COLOR SCHEME-2
TOWNHOME MATERIAL BOARD
COLOR AND MATERIAL BOARD 
PENINSULA HEIGHTS
E
2B
1A
4C
6C
2E
3C
C
7B
A
1D
2. LAP SIDING
1. STUCCO
    SAND FINISH
3. CEMENTITIOUS. 
    PANEL & TRIM 
4. VINYL WINDOW
    
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
6.6

--- page 152 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
MATERIALS
A:	 	
HERON PLUME - SW 6070
	
	
B:	 	
THUNDEROUS - SW 6201
C:	 	
FOGGY DAY - SW 6235
5. METAL HORIZONTAL 
    RAILING
CS-1:
COLOR SCHEME-1
TH OVER FLATS MATERIAL BOARD
COLOR AND MATERIAL BOARD 
PENINSULA HEIGHTS
7. STONE VENEER
2. LAP SIDING
1. STUCCO
    SAND FINISH
3. CEMENTITIOUS. 
    PANEL & TRIM 
4. VINYL WINDOW
    
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
6.7
6. DECORATIVE METAL 
    AWNING
1A
6
1A
2C
7
5
5
1A
3C
7
3B
4C
6
4

--- page 153 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS -  SAN MATEO, CA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
MATERIALS
2. LAP SIDING
1. STUCCO
    SAND FINISH
3. CEMENTITIOUS. 
    PANEL & TRIM 
4. VINYL WINDOW
    
A:	 	
INCREDIBLE WHITE - SW 7028
	
	
B:	 	
REALIST BEIGE - SW 6078
5. METAL HORIZONTAL 
    RAILING
CS-1:
C:	 	
SPECIAL GRAY - SW 6277
COLOR AND MATERIAL BOARD 
PENINSULA HEIGHTS
D:	 	
HERON PLUME - SW 6070
	
	
5865 Owens Drive
Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-251-7200
1483.001
07-10-20
JOB NO.
DATE
N
6.8
COLOR SCHEME-2
TH OVER FLATS MATERIAL BOARD
6. DECORATIVE METAL 
    AWNING
1D
6
1D
2C
1A
5
5
1B
3C
1A
5D
4C
6
4

--- page 154 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
C0.0
0
400
200
100
SAN
FRANCISCO
BAY
PACIFIC
OCEAN
TITLE SHEET
Know what'sbelow.
before you dig.
Call
R

--- page 155 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
EXISTING CONDITIONS
C1.1
0
120
60
30
NORTH SITE
Know what'sbelow.
before you dig.
Call
R
JOHN
KOROYAN
No. 8883
L
I
C
E
N
S
E
D
 
L
A
N
D
 
S
U
R
V
E
Y
O
R
S
T
A
T
E
 
O
F
 
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
N
I
A

--- page 156 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP FOR
C2.1
0
120
60
30
CONDOMINIUM PURPOSES - NORTH SITE

--- page 157 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
SITE ACCESS PLAN
C2.2
0
120
60
30
 NORTH SITE

--- page 158 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
GRADING PLAN
C3.1
0
120
60
30
Know what'sbelow.
before you dig.
Call
R
NORTH SITE

--- page 159 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
UTILITY PLAN
C4.1
0
120
60
30
Know what'sbelow.
before you dig.
Call
R
NORTH SITE

--- page 160 ---
(P) BIORETENTION AREA
(P) IMPERVIOUS BUILDING
(P) IMPERVIOUS HARDSCAPE
(P) SILVA CELLS
(P) PERVIOUS LANDSCAPE
(P) PERVIOUS PAVEMENT
(P) IMPERVIOUS AREA
HARDSCAPE
TOTAL AREA
(P) PERVIOUS AREA
TOTAL:
BUILDINGS
PERVIOUS PAVEMENT
TOTAL:
PERVIOUS LANDSCAPE
DMA 1
DMA 2
DMA 3
DMA 4
DMA 6
DMA 7
DMA 84
DMA 5
DMA 9
TOTAL EFFECTIVE
IMPERVIOUS AREA
1
(P) IMPERVIOUS AREA
HARDSCAPE
TOTAL AREA
(P) PERVIOUS AREA
TOTAL:
BUILDINGS
PERVIOUS PAVEMENT
TOTAL:
REQUIRED LID
TREATMENT AREA
2
PROVIDED LID
TREATMENT AREA
3
PERVIOUS LANDSCAPE
TOTAL EFFECTIVE
IMPERVIOUS AREA
1
REQUIRED LID
TREATMENT AREA
2
PROVIDED LID
TREATMENT AREA
3
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
STORMWATER CONTROL PLAN
C5.1
0
120
60
30
NORTH SITE

--- page 161 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
FIRE ACCESS PLAN
C6.1
0
120
60
30
NORTH SITE

--- page 162 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
EROSION CONTROL PLAN
C7.1
0
240
120
60
NORTH SITE

--- page 163 ---
SCALE:   1" = 20' HORIZ.
            1" = 10' VERT.
NORTH LOTS SECTION
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
NORTH LOTS SECTION
0
80
40
20
C8.1

--- page 164 ---
DETAILS
C8.2
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
A
A

--- page 165 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
DETAILS
C8.3
A
A
A
A

--- page 166 ---
SCALE:   1" = 20' HORIZ.
            1" = 4' VERT.
PRIVATE STREET C
PRIVATE STREET 
SCALE:   1" = 20' HORI
            1" = 4' VERT.
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
PRIVATE STREETS PROFILE
C8.4
MATCH LINE-SEE SHEET C8.5

--- page 167 ---
PRIVATE STREET C
SCALE:   1" = 20' HOR
            1" = 4' VERT.
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
PRIVATE STREETS PROFILE
C8.5
MATCH LINE-SEE SHEET C8.4

--- page 168 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
NORTH LOTS UNIT GRADING
0
80
40
20
C8.6

--- page 169 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
EXISTING CONDITIONS
C9.1
0
120
60
30
SOUTH SITE
Know what'sbelow.
before you dig.
Call
R
JOHN
KOROYAN
No. 8883
L
I
C
E
N
S
E
D
 
L
A
N
D
 S
U
R
V
E
Y
O
R
S
T
A
T
E
 
O
F
 
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
N
I
A

--- page 170 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
EXISTING CONDITIONS
C9.2
0
120
60
30
SOUTH SITE

--- page 171 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP FOR
C10.1
0
120
60
30
CONDOMINIUM PURPOSES - SOUTH SITE

--- page 172 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP FOR
C10.2
0
120
60
30
CONDOMINIUM PURPOSES - SOUTH SITE

--- page 173 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
SITE ACCESS PLAN
C10.3
0
120
60
30
SOUTH SITE

--- page 174 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
SITE ACCESS PLAN
C10.4
0
120
60
30
 SOUTH SITE

--- page 175 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
GRADING PLAN
C11.1
0
120
60
30
Know what'sbelow.
before you dig.
Call
R
SOUTH SITE

--- page 176 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
GRADING PLAN
C11.2
0
120
60
30
SOUTH SITE

--- page 177 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
UTILITY PLAN
C12.1
0
120
60
30
Know what'sbelow.
before you dig.
Call
R
SOUTH SITE

--- page 178 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
UTILITY PLAN
C12.2
0
120
60
30
SOUTH SITE

--- page 179 ---
(P) BIORETENTION AREA
(P) IMPERVIOUS BUILDING
(P) IMPERVIOUS HARDSCAPE
(P) SILVA CELLS
(P) PERVIOUS LANDSCAPE
(P) PERVIOUS PAVEMENT
(P) IMPERVIOUS AREA
HARDSCAPE
TOTAL AREA
(P) PERVIOUS AREA
TOTAL:
BUILDINGS
PERVIOUS PAVEMENT
TOTAL:
PERVIOUS LANDSCAPE
DMA 1
DMA 2
DMA 3
DMA 4
DMA 6
DMA 7
DMA 84
DMA 5
DMA 10
TOTAL EFFECTIVE
IMPERVIOUS AREA
1
(P) IMPERVIOUS AREA
HARDSCAPE
TOTAL AREA
(P) PERVIOUS AREA
TOTAL:
BUILDINGS
PERVIOUS PAVEMENT
TOTAL:
PERVIOUS LANDSCAPE
TOTAL EFFECTIVE
IMPERVIOUS AREA
1
REQUIRED LID
TREATMENT AREA
2
PROVIDED LID
TREATMENT AREA
3
REQUIRED LID
TREATMENT AREA
2
PROVIDED LID
TREATMENT AREA
3
DMA 9
INTERCEPTOR TREE
CREDITS6
INTERCEPTOR TREE
CREDITS6
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
STORMWATER CONTROL PLAN
C13.1
0
120
60
30
Know what'sbelow.
before you dig.
Call
R
SOUTH SITE

--- page 180 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
STORMWATER CONTROL PLAN
C13.2
0
120
60
30
SOUTH SITE

--- page 181 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
FIRE ACCESS PLAN
C14.1
0
120
60
30
SOUTH SITE

--- page 182 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
FIRE ACCESS PLAN
C14.2
0
120
60
30
SOUTH SITE

--- page 183 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
EROSION CONTROL PLAN
C15.1
0
240
120
60
SOUTH SITE

--- page 184 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
EROSION CONTROL PLAN
C15.2
0
240
120
60
SOUTH SITE

--- page 185 ---
SCALE:   1" = 20' HORIZ.
            1" = 10' VERT.
SOUTH LOTS SECTION
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
SOUTH LOTS SECTION
0
80
40
20
C16.1

--- page 186 ---
DETAILS
C16.2
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
A
A

--- page 187 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
DETAILS
C16.3
A
A
A
A

--- page 188 ---
PRIVATE STREET 
LE:   1" = 20' HORIZ.
    1" = 4' VERT.
LE:   1" = 20' HORIZ.
    1" = 4' VERT.
PRIVATE STREET 
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
PRIVATE STREETS PROFILE
C16.4
MATCH LINE-SEE BELOW
MATCH LINE-SEE ABOVE

--- page 189 ---
SCALE:   1" = 20' HORIZ.
            1" = 4' VERT.
PRIVATE STREET B
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
PRIVATE STREETS PROFILE
C16.5

--- page 190 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
SOUTH LOTS UNIT GRADING
0
80
40
20
C16.6

--- page 191 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC
JOB NO.
20180881-10
05-19-2020
DATE
NORTH
SOUTH LOTS UNIT GRADING
0
80
40
20
C16.7

--- page 192 ---
i s¢
"ath beet

;
:
:
:
i

luet L “
; U

~-

PLOTTED BY: polt

1BOBBt_Penineuleortioe Part

1
(8-1 3-2

\

DRAWING HAME. KK)
PLOT DATE:

PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA CONCEPTUAL STRIPING PLAN ISNBKFIOO-

YEARS

CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC CAMPUS DRIVE ENGINEERS , SURVEYORS , PLANNERS



--- page 193 ---
\ENO\EXHIBI TS\\2020-46-1 2_Road_Str iping\edete iplagto_intersect ion, deg

PLOTTED BY: polt

B0BRt_PeninsuleOrticoe Part

120

@-

DRAWING HAME: K:
PLOT DATE:

a a ih ll -I

) io

. ——s
SS

mee” at

0 30 60
—————|

JOB NO. 2018088 1-10

PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA CONCEPTUAL STRIPING PLAN = BK lOO: sore
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC CAMPUS DRIVE ewoweens suavevons amens — Sertism™ nD 3



--- page 194 ---
i
.
t

PLOTTED BY: polt

18088! _Peninsul eortioe Part

:\201
|

DRAWING HAME) K
PLOT DATE:

PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA CONCEPTUAL STRIPING PLAN mN BK 100:
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC CAMPUS DRIVE ENDINEERS , SURVEYORS , PLANNERS



--- page 195 ---
sul a_Of f ice_Park\ENG\_Tentat ive_Map\cdpsheets — Copy.dwg

PLOTTED BY: polt

enin:

10-06-20

DRAWING NAME: K:\2018\180881_P.

PLOT DATE:

CAMPUS DRIVE

PROPOSED OFFSITE gure _ouen [X)
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA CONSTRUCTION PHASING PLAN #RNBKFIOO: gee”

YEARS

CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC ENGINEERS . SURVEYORS . PLANNERS Ceeoktcem C-1


--- page 196 ---
L0.00
KEY PLAN
 
80	 	
 0	
	
80            160 feet
NORTH SITE - SHEET L0.01
NORTH SITE - SHEET L0.01
L1.01
L1.01
L2.01
L2.01
L3.01
L3.01
SOUTH SITE - SHEET L0.02
SOUTH SITE - SHEET L0.02
L1.02
L1.02
L2.02
L2.02
L3.02
L3.02
CAMPUS DRIVE
CAMPUS DRIVE
HIGHWAY 92
HIGHWAY 92
PENINSULA GOLF & 
COUNTRY CLUB
EXISTING OFFICE 
BUILDING, TYP
26TH AVENUE
26TH AVENUE
CAMPUS DRIVE
CAMPUS DRIVE
LAURELWOOD 
SHOPPING CENTER
BERESFORD PARK
NEIGHBORHOOD
SOUTH SITE - SHEET L0.03
SOUTH SITE - SHEET L0.03
L1.03
L1.03
L2.03
L2.03
L3.03
L3.03
FIRE LANE

--- page 197 ---


--- page 198 ---


--- page 199 ---


--- page 200 ---
Speci Hank Fala: Orasqired ¢ prc Wakiep Condo Liga oe fer Sle dug lea Tey om tial
Adneired Uidlun 4 vauct, Wider | Adalfage Pier
Pal eet

ot ST = Fe (
oer a ago porn
pa edit cae [Read ee Anema Manes

ee ee
ree le ere
ee A a
0G ee ee
rr ee ee ee
a ee ee
a

The “etl Wane Tal
Pon | fr) od is iL)

ee ee
CHC pale cee" Wensea AMAR Vin ANN nn “a Sane ee

I4 3

WEIN SEO CL LE OL SOUL: OR WOOO TOO SOTO POOOOO
PRET RTE Co ee

Me hee MS hh

Dan r a] mas

ee wk [tensa 12-471 See ee on
ee amma Ce RRR SRR SAR NRE SO RR SR EL
WEE SET TF A ST
Paras CE alee inl Me a RN eee + tel 4 eae

Lal feoasbive oak, pRomived | eT
FER STR eee Cre pe ena
a1

=

1

7 ee ee
2
7 ee ee
aioe Saale
mice ein ieee aiid
ane nine en
iE ns
CO A
eC ee
ee ee
pa
2 ee ee
le eis Mies
AEs SCTE AA TTT DOARARSN HORE RM ADORE FS Pa ee Pee
2
Re eee
7
Leer eeerere
eer perreed
ere reer
te ee ee
eee ee
‘i ed ee ee
2 ee
Soe NEL
=
Py
es ee ee
ed ee ee
oat eT

Rbacaihe (eae

aT
47

|
EL
a
rained
Pl
Deere errr!
ee
rei Pumclstgum, fread Pat ae Peat
a
Po |
Leeland
pa
po eT |
7a
Po

ne

rar

if
ha
bt

iz

Pak Dad) ba

PBI Fianicigarecea— Pieersed ae Er ie E
eo eee Here Fee cM eh I la
a ee Cr ee eel pT: ee

[aa Pictauncun [renwal pes ae pee a Pe ere
WRC TEN ee se PTs ee SP OO: SEO TO =e Sr
pth Prodan peapeeae Prarie Rr ee
L2G fiona secede, Peueied Re

Pt winracrrarecre [Peeweecacd | [ee
pep tt ee er errr free ere Aiea a aaa dele niin bein dees nie lie
a0 Pawlaweud [Racca | Jninbeedd manana sbemnenenn enone meek anode amend -Sa0e
Sem Toto ada (77ST Me SOC MVM 2S nn Msn Selene ad

a Sea Ee ae eee

it

t
=
ae
=
E
a
=
mt
mila
in
sa

Were See cre ee :
WL STESORET ETT GT T OO is EL SEL
ee ee eae if
i rceseeter manana anand panaaal ean sein sea seein eeeeaneanineineh aa
er cs
ae funknpucwsew” fiawaad Par dep aa a
ase | et REC 4 te
tesa EST  ctnttsssnisinennnnnsnns|
Ca ese Newest er ee
re Ba |
ite aetpas Terese ar BER
ies oat ers | Pascas penetra 4
Pa eee ne ee et 2
PEP Raainarsas ae ae ea era Ger terre tee Ete rere terete | :
Pate Pewibei ta PAncvad, | ees 7
Pt Repetenc ber, | Prevod |
BREAN SECC ee Se ESE
pa peor ger fleet pa

abe |ee|t
A Ps

eal

BEE
I

a oa : a L HE

ry
;

v

oat
a
-
ao
i tP
it
ania ee
val
oops
=
wn
la
=I bot =the = = -4 =I afer

wt
a]

Ia

=
=
-

44

ai

a

ba Wee Be
Sh

TEE Proves egret, | *

Ts [caging sine [Reawed ek a Pd

Lie Feastmorned. [Pennetta fat I
Framennoteper.. [eanzied

Frat leet ett et errereerennd a ee
PEE fesaautceege [ee Pg a
ae Te SE SS
Pree onde [Reena pa age es
PRE EET ce il rrr a: Em Ee [Fe -
Met fad gee Heed ae eee a

Gn ee
pee ad eee eel ne Pc | aH re 4”,

ES EN I EEL

Cer a wut pier ae
Tacdarcasa: | Aeva saaeer Sel aneudeet + Sanaa sennaaseder manned ieee

SF C2 a SR A = A RM nen Tee MAO

Pas Pearik ie aak  [Bericvad eer freer err bere errr fer een rete free err

ee ee a ee ee ee eee ee eee ee eee

PSE EL Re Ce rh __ oa SEL" 0 SNOT: NNT ST ONL SET ON OCT.

wet a ees A onen 7
: fern a qh TH = x! Die vt

See emma et eee A EE SR ES SR A DE ES SORE ee

lara Sere ry stor (c-=P lel el Semen de ett ened hanna eiaeied sade: state

Pla? Peuetimucunt [Runway eee

Se AE nn ee ee en eee

pa

Emtec ’
bo :
.

c
r

”

1th

x

Pe : ay ii " i wn
J -2 " i af-ab- i - tel tea

Sea erarerara cr we vik Tif--1 anne ne Sd ‘ina need 3 ers

patel wre
LIN CC ATTET TaN LTT oTT NS SET SC: SOOO 7; SO OUT C SOUT
FI SECA T= SE EL OS CO Ae
Pa” Peaack va ak ee eee eee eel -
PE Pea DEE oP ER
ME ETE Te I MR TT OT x
PE peaasarye  [Rantyag Bae ee
irl freataabont [aevered ob ds ae i eM OO
ite [money se, [Revned. hk tase, PE oe Pt kb]
Se ne A a a eee ee Len
ist Faure mtgcet [reread SOE Un SOTA _
MES ET ee Eo = a
ae ee rere er pre eep ep pipe peggy ms
PUN Pewast anbercod [Reread ee eee et
MEE CET TST R= A RR SO RR RE ROR RR
Ee ee ee ee ee eee eee ah “oa ETA Ee

PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC

Lt [erie pracy | po
Uesuren
ae pipe
LH | ET a eT cS A CX
[ai [eal ke oat [eraeed [tang a
5 Le ee a 43 =
i di. i -
ee [a
ee [evedsreneat[semnat ees bP
pipe REE se see att LE == 7 1, Tm =  L<
ieruews pe ee er ini
ee ————————— eee
ps fh B a
a
ee ee me ao
ee
rae [nad sonces [eee Se ee ee ae es ee es ee a es
imrasad Fy
Par fairies femey p ag peg gg pgp pf ep a
oe pa
AW pac ee at i nil at
ee
Psi [essareoat [seme [aa get ap a

ETC LE FE LC Ln a ce ee NE
Raa pa
pipe eee see aE
a]
es a a a a
eet es a —) | on BE omc pgp ghd
Lad oe P| a7 ace ies “ats Be
Sc Er Peed 7 OS Oe OR We sae Ne ee Ea
ua ae OE a TS SE OE DY
erate " iy 4
a ee a oo
peek Mikes sie _Lerieg? __} bed) ng ee ee ts a
ry r.
= 5 sc payee 1
CST ee
ECCI COTY SC TTT eee
ea ee ee ee a, ee ee a oe ee ee
Ze [eaten pe [tee ee ee eee en
MEE ERT TE LT MO : Pp
CCS A Tc
old Lat . Palco
ea aca a1 :
Ee i= hl 5 ail 1 .
Pet hiusate [Rees phe he poh pp
beryintan fcna) PEt ok wav uusilit oa wlacencasilh wwndocuivce Phd
fiero se ae dd
AEE ACPO CTE ORAS SSE SORE AGRO DUAR T= MOIUOAS RDOORRNE MORSE MNORES SOON MRMRAG OKAEE NEED
Lise Piaee che eee
rs [IES EE EC EN LC: SE OEY UUREUOWY:SURUNNNEE SEL EOOD CONES QUIN CONERLE OS
Pri : Pe le eee a ee
EE ET TENE EN EITC OR, WE DORE A ICE HARRIE III I: IE ES CE EE
ee as aaa sts Bi mind TEE ET Te TT
RESIN CEST ETT ON ETL CEL NONE EN UT: TT CA nine Zensen
Pel [tind power [Mea ere ee
Prk [Mizuta RE ER RE AT NT, TE A A ME
AE Ee
PR Ee Pc Fn A eee Pe. Cee
aT ee ee ee ieee ee ee ee a

Past [Wiese sno [Seniwed 1, | a Ee
ae fe: teas wall fannie _haK, eS
eneteas — 1 Ts aed ‘sonuuent’c =>

peri feel sete, |
WEEN CEST AA TEC RANA OREO

ae Weg oe ose] Ee ee

= a ese Fuens SSSUUNE SUSE USUUNNEN AUUUUNNY SEUUEE-StN SENSE NUON OESEE SOO

Pei unt se | preee grer er gecer rere rer Error errr rere ber eee gere frre fr
a ee od pr a SE EE
WE LTCC ECE LL L-NNA O -
er ee Ped lee tesheerrere

‘ae re
SR SPCR AO CETTE A OE ROA OO BE: BE pet oof ep
Si ge eee eee eee ee ee eee eee eet eee eee me aes eee
pat [evga eat [eal peter per rere rer err freer rere rere rere

rina Cr ne A a SO Wun a OOOO "ames WOOGIE eee Ra sues Send” 9a WRT WO
pie fae pea | po

ph es Laat AAT ppm ad pe a we lidh ens uuue whi pa SE a
pcre rtrd Ete 1+et SRA! ——— 7 “tr st ri a ah prceeericerrrrr E

: ee
laa TET TeTMeel err eli cl Pee
Pa firrssecuy. [Rewer
PSA Tr Ear Se Oo FO
a ee a ee
Fae Ae Sse aaa (ce ee Dae eee be aes enh tees see Sees fees babies i
Pcitaiep seawater

ne EE a TE aan snrerctiairnsn aren erie fesaresttniarnsnabsarasarasad iasrisisnafreisisrenamnainraisinasampmnasnanresasifuasmasnrisastabarassantansnan
a

errr ere rere oper eer iterered
enat EA RE aT ath pr OE Wan ONC Nn IORORORE SE REN UATE: DOUONE

piped fees a
HIBS tee Fea aad Lat lida is ad +o +

A OT Pe pe ts 7
rif feutastvieet” feed
Pari [oqadshe gtk, [aeaeed
a “Ee — Seen eee core one eee eee oot
EEC et otit Gh as Ls radi atk heal es prrercreertigerrererrd
Hee SEIEAEITTOFIS Samad TCAD ISAAC ERAN ARRE:RERARG ARAICE OANA AOSSRONTECANONONA INORONNINE ROSRONI wentaned parecer ee re
ee eee :

ra
Pas [Cavat carn [eerned aa ee ee a Bg
BRITE TCM WE SFP OO SOP 1 200 NE OR SUL ESOT
EL Eeee aL a A A CSC Ne ces Aer hea eee eee
a ee ee ec es ee oe a es oo: oe
Pe any eae eed Pa
[are [rams ee [Roomate aa sa ee
fam [raat ee mil [unenen pce totaal ee SEO
iio i ee a ae ee eee See See
ae ‘sihdehidee I eeein deeded ieee: Vn: whinbecebdeer hdc
Paloma cete ea STUUR NORE NOOR NOON NON NNN BONS

Pais [Panuvat pane enna sensei’ nmeneedd muaeannede Cenaninnaee neem mane -tolea Mannan Fania

1,
tal
S

Pa
st

iar nada Cre mene eames Le We Wed OOM Cam MOU eeu MYON Fan Wes eR Soe
[af past ok | er

Se cee eee eee ee oe eee eee eee eee eer eee =e
ie oe beet oct bo =

er haar |

INT 77 ELT ESS CLE”

SCE Se LAC Cs Sc
Pd [oedema [eet ae |
Peo [ue gu [em a OT Pd a
vee, [ue ge re I | ee

ee EST ECE Tae ETE WAN od eceanedt tereacheermnaldtnnneucd eit whounhnabonud dood
Pe | : Picea BT “es a |e
BEE ET Eta A A SE en MARIA i I EC
EE rt te A

as Meuepene[peraged Lg LE RL beds dd de
ME ELE |

Pad [eazy cee tere aT a
iW oC nn SE CON SOS HO NE Sen ee RoC oe Boece
ee Moavaelig | RT eR PT | el
eae ee TEE ——
ee Pea

rar TPT RADIAT WARRRE AARAM OAR AR SAOMAET NON SAPO SASONaeE MDE elas OUR AdtaE MOREE MO
Cait Monterey ghie,_[Roraead 4d | eed ag
BES CES ee a Hen ah H . eee eee

eee pos Inaledadednd 4: MAMMMANAD Maa nia inane emia
ISL TTC Lee

PuS [Sugar Ree ae
Lote Peru ae Peete ee Ea)

TREE EVALUATION SCHEDULE JETT

ekeites [earn J ee ee a ya

tegen [Sete ae
eC Ec
ECE CTs ee z ps

taht
He

= SS SSS=25
‘ = =!

ete 1 aniage ns es =
2 ec

=I

1
Cmte eer OS OE

Pee [bern claraban [cheer |
rant Li aie [Ped
1g Jllories; re | Paced |
aa erst

aac ie

5 ~~ a? aT —— 7
a a
Pare diswe nah [oeretd haat fanfuuckel ——

EE ESE ct CT) EE SED panatistasna

Aza [Mutiny pet [Padre a F ed

158 CZ a TS LO OO eS

ieee eee Grp ok ed ea eR ora ae ee pater th eenenede rn a
Es Lami a Chee a a ae :
— a ce ZT
EN Set wise 6 a rs .

Total LU Valine of Treas fo ba Renewed

JOB NO.
DATE

aoye.2

1483.001
08-13-20

LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DESIGN 2 Theatre Sq., Ste 218,
Orinda, Ca 94563

925-254-5422



--- page 201 ---
L1.01
LANDSCAPE DESIGN - NORTH PARCEL
30	 	
 0	
	
30            60 feet
CAMPUS DRIVE
CAMPUS DRIVE
VIEW OVERLOOK
•	 FITNESS STATION
PUBLICLY ACCESSIBLE MINI PARK
•	 PLAY ELEMENTS, AGES 2-5 AND 5-12
•	 PICNIC AREA 
•	 BBQ 
•	 WAYFINDING SIGNAGE
PEDESTRIAN ENTRY, TYP
PUBLICLY ACCESSIBLE MINI PARK
•	 NEIGHBORHOOD PARK
•	 PLAY ELEMENTS - ALL AGES
•	 FITNESS LOOP STATION
•	 WAYFINDING SIGNAGE
NORTH PARCEL ENTRY
UPPER TERRACE
MINI PARK
•	 COMMUNITY GARDEN
•	 PICNIC AREA
GARAGE ENTRY, TYP
VIEW OVERLOOK 
•	 PICNIC AREA
MATCHLINE - SEE SHEET L1.02
PEDESTRIAN LOOP, 
UPPER TERRACE
VEGETATED RETAINING WALL, 
TYP, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
NORTH PARCEL ENTRY
LOWER TERRACE
VIEW OVERLOOK
•	 FITNESS STATION
PEDESTRIAN LOOP, 
LOWER TERRACE
VIEW OVERLOOK
•	 PICNIC AREA
•	 ART
NATURAL LANDSCAPE
MINI PARK
•	 TURF AREA - CROQUET, CORN HOLE 
(PUBLICLY ACCESSIBLE)
•	 COMMUNITY GARDEN
*
*
  LEGEND 
	
	
ACTIVITY NODE
	
	
	
- WAYFINDING SIGNAGE
	
	
	
- FITNESS EQUIPMENT
	
	
	
- FLEXIBLE PLAY
	
	
FITNESS PATH
	
	
	
- MILEAGE MARKER
	
	
ACCESSIBLE PATH OF TRAVEL TO PUBLIC 	
	
	
AMENITIES
  SEE SHEETS L2.01-L2.07 FOR MATERIAL LOCATIONS
  SEE SHEET L2.10 FOR PARKS AND REC FACILITY CREDIT
*

--- page 202 ---
LANDSCAPE DESIGN - SOUTH PARCEL
30	 	
 0	
	
30            60 feet
MINI PARK
•	 BADMINTON COURT
•	 FITNESS LOOP STATION
•	 FITNESS AMENITIES
MATCHLINE - SEE SHEET L1.01
MATCHLINE - SEE SHEET L1.03
MINI PARK
•	 DOG PARK
•	 CONNECTION TO OFFSITE 
FIRE TRAIL
PEDESTRIAN LOOP, 
UPPER TERRACE
PEDESTRIAN ENTRY, TYP
GARAGE ENTRY, TYP
VIEW OVERLOOK
•	 COMMUNITY GARDEN
VIEW OVERLOOK
•	 FITNESS STATION
SOUTH PARCEL ENTRY 
UPPER TERRACE
MINI PARK
•	 PLAY ELEMENTS, AGES 2-5 AND 5-12
•	 PICNIC AREAS
•	 BBQS
L1.02
*
  LEGEND 
	
	
ACTIVITY NODE
	
	
	
- WAYFINDING SIGNAGE
	
	
	
- FITNESS EQUIPMENT
	
	
	
- FLEXIBLE PLAY
	
	
FITNESS PATH
	
	
	
- MILEAGE MARKER
	
	
ACCESSIBLE PATH OF TRAVEL TO PUBLIC 	
	
	
AMENITIES
  SEE SHEETS L2.01-L2.07 FOR MATERIAL LOCATIONS
  SEE SHEET L2.10 FOR PARKS AND REC FACILITY CREDIT
*

--- page 203 ---
30	 	
 0	
	
30            60 feet
MATCHLINE - SEE SHEET L1.02
PUBLICLY ACCESSIBLE MINI PARK
•	 SHADED PICNIC AREA
•	 FITNESS LOOP STATION
•	 PET WASTE BAG DISPENSER
•	 WAYFINDING SIGNAGE
SOUTH PARCEL ENTRY
LOWER TERRACE
L1.03
VIEW OVERLOOK
•	 PICNIC AREA
VIEW OVERLOOK
•	 COMMUNITY GARDEN
VEGETATED RETAINING WALL, 
TYP, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
LANDSCAPE DESIGN - SOUTH PARCEL
  LEGEND 
	
	
ACTIVITY NODE
	
	
	
- WAYFINDING SIGNAGE
	
	
	
- FITNESS EQUIPMENT
	
	
	
- FLEXIBLE PLAY
	
	
FITNESS PATH
	
	
	
- MILEAGE MARKER
	
	
ACCESSIBLE PATH OF TRAVEL TO PUBLIC 	
	
	
AMENITIES
  SEE SHEETS L2.01-L2.07 FOR MATERIAL LOCATIONS
  SEE SHEET L2.10 FOR PARKS AND REC FACILITY CREDIT
*
*
VIEW OVERLOOK
•	 SHADED PICNIC AREA

--- page 204 ---


--- page 205 ---


--- page 206 ---


--- page 207 ---


--- page 208 ---


--- page 209 ---


--- page 210 ---


--- page 211 ---


--- page 212 ---
2’-6” MIN 3’-0” TYP 3'-0" TYP MINIMUM CLEAR

MATERIALS SCHEDULE

CLR BIW RACKS BIW RACKS i DEMARCATION
a —

KEY NAME DESCRIPTION

a 1 | AC PAVING VEHICULAR ASPHALT PAVING, SCD

aa BIKE RACK, TYR

of e 2 | CONCRETE PAVING INTEGRAL COLOR, BROOM FINISH

—

OO
3 DN CONCRETE INTEGRAL COLOR, BROOM FINISH, VEHICULAR RATED
4 | CONCRETE BAND INTEGRAL COLOR, BROOM FINISH, VEHICULAR RATED
5 | DG PAVING DECOMPOSED GRANITE

—S]}

6 | RESILIENT PLAY SURFACING | POURED IN PLACE

7 STAIRS CONCRETE, SCD

“GARDEN

UNDYED ARBORIST CHIPS; PROVIDE REDWOOD EDGE

8 MULCH RESTRAINT WHERE NECESSARY

i) STORMWATER PLANTER FLOW-THROUGH PLANTER, SCD

42” HT FOR FALL PROTECTION; OMEGA Il FENCE SYSTEM,

10 | GUARDRAIL STEEL FRAME, BLACK

48” HT, WOOD FRAME, WIRE MESH INFILL, ADA
COMPLIANT GATE, SEE DETAIL 3/L2.09

11 DOG PARK FENCING

SHORT TERM BICYCLE PARKING

12 PUBLIC ART PIECE LANDMARK SCULPTURAL PIECE

SCALE: 1/2” = 1’
WELLE CIRCULAR RACK, STAINLESS STEEL, EMBEDMENT

13 | BIKE RACK MOUNT, SEE DETAIL 1/L2.09 FOR LAYOUT

TRANSFORMER, SCD

EVERGREEN SHRUBS, 14. | BENCH WOOD, BACKED WITH CENTER ARM
SCREEN ALL SIDES =
te t- 15 | DOG WASTE STATION PET WASTE BAG DISPENSER
Oo ra . . a ( 16 | BBQ CHARCOAL BBQ GRILL AND COUNTER
- _ = f\ . , ; . |
Ss S TRASH RECYC LE 17 COAL BIN 23X23”
<l —_
cr = 2 RECEPTACLE PLAY STRUCTURE (5 2) DOG WASTE STATION GUARDRAIL DECORATIVE CONCRETE 18 | DRINKING FOUNTAIN OUTDOOR BARRIER-FREE PEDESTAL FOUNTAIN
oO
7 ‘ 19 | PICNIC TABLE STEEL&HPL, ADA ACCESSIBLE
TRANSFORMER SCREENING — ELEVATION 20 | SHADE STRUCTURE POWDERCOATED ALUMINUM STRUCTURE

2-5 YEARS, CONFORM TO SAFETY USE ZONES REQUIRED

21 | PLAY EQUIPMENT BY ASTM F1487—17; INTEGRATED SHADE

UTILITY SCREENING
5-12 YEARS, CONFORM TO SAFETY USE ZONES
SCALE: 1/4” = 1’

22 | PLAY EQUIPMENT REQUIRED BY ASTM F1487—17; INTEGRATED SHADE

5-12 YEARS, CONFORM TO SAFETY USE ZONES
REQUIRED BY ASTM F1487-17

2x6 PIDF CAP 23 | SWING SET

f 8’-0” OC TYP £

2x6 PIDF STRINGER
2x6 PTDF HORIZ

24 FITNESS EQUIPMENT

SIGNAGE PORCELAIN ENAMEL COATED STEEL

FITNESS ROUTE, WOOD AND POWDERCOATED STEEL

25 FITNESS EQUIPMENT COMPONENTS

2x6 PTDF POSTS

4X4 GALVANIZED 26 | FITNESS LOOP STATION WAYFINDING SIGNAGE

WELDED WIRE MESH
2x6 PIDF STRINGER

2/ MILEAGE MARKER PORCELAIN ENAMEL COATED STEEL

98 | COMMUNITY GARDEN GALVANIZED GARDEN TROUGH: 5’X2’x2’

BARBEQUE

2x6 PIDF HORIZ PLANTER
” 29 HOSE BIBB SELF-CLOSING BIBB FAUCET MOUNTED TO 4X4 POST
12” DIA CONC FOOTING,
py SLOPE TO DRAIN AT FG ots: 30 | GARDEN TABLE WOOD, ADA ACCESSIBLE
ye 1. POSTS TO BE SET AT ALL CORNERS AND 31 | Too SHED WOOD, ADA ACCESSIBLE
aL a SUBGRADE, UNDISTURBED WHERE THE ANGLE OF DEFLECTION TRASH/RECYCLE
ro OR COMPACT TO 90% EXCEEDS 15 DEGREES 32 TRASH/RECY EMBED MOUNT
2. ALL BOLTS, NUTS, AND OTHER CONNECTING = | commons xe Sel 35X6" OVERALL COURT SIZE; PROMDE

HARDWARE TO BE HOT DIPPED GALVANIZED STORAGE WHEN NOT IN USE

SYNTHETIC TURF, 22'X44’, REMOVABLE NET, PROVIDE
STORAGE WHEN NOT IN USE

DOG PARK FENCING

34 | BADMINTON COURT

SCALE: 1/2" = 1 35 | CROQUET COURT 30°X55’ COURT SIZE; PROVIDE STORAGE WHEN NOT IN
USE
f 8'-0" OC MAX ‘ 2x6 CAP
= aoa + (2) 1X4 CLEATS 36 | 6’ HT FENCE WOOD GOOD NEIGHBOR FENCE, SEE DETAIL 4/L2.09

4X6 PIDF POST

(2) 1X8 BOARD ON BADMINTON COURT

BOARD, PROVIDE 1”
OVERLAP IN )
LOUVERED PATTERN

(2) 1X4 CLEATS
2x4 BOTTOM RAIL

ELEVATION
NOTE:
CONCRETE
1. HOLD TOP RAIL LEVEL. FOOTING

2. ALL WOOD TO BE ROUGH-SAWN RED CEDAR.
3. STEP FENCE & ALTER PANEL WIDTH AS
NECESSARY TO CONFORM TO GRADES.

CROQUET MILEAGE MARKER SHADE STRUCTURE BIKE RACK (6 _) RESILIENT PLAY SURFACING

SECTION

6° HT FENCE
SCALE: 1/2” = 1
NORTH

PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA LANDSCAPE MATERIAL IMAGES AND 408 No. 1483001 2
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC DETAILS tictoctoneurrosm paneroeq sre oie YS

SEC L2 . O9



--- page 213 ---


--- page 214 ---
PLANT SCHEDULE PLANT SCHEDULE
. ; SYMBOL BOTANICAL NAME COMMON NAME SIZE QTY COMMENTS SYMBOL BOTANICAL NAME COMMON NAME SIZE QTY COMMENTS
Required Tree Planting a
Zoning Ceee, bedien 27 FL —Londscape, eqns clk areqeets we have a minimurs ralie ot] tree per 400 square fees of larilsceged aces. Existire TREES | Ba TURF FESCUE BLEND
Irmes no: ars a ose oF Singh dizeneber may Gaudet iowa lee, oye. ’ ’ oe
CEANOTHUS RAY HARTMAN MOUNTAIN LILAC 15 GAL STORMWATER
CERCIS OCCIDENTALIS WESTERN REDBUD 15 GAL vy [ACHILLEA  MILLEFOLIUM YARROW ae
burndzetr cP acistknge eres crore) Tree! Svaliaciid Schacude Vv ARCTOSTAPHYLOS "HOWARD HOWARD MCMINN 5 CAL
wiih a beh or greater dmmneter to Be preseruedt LAURUS NOBILIS ’SARATOGA’ LAUREL 15 GAL | 311 » v| MCMINN’ MANZANITA
Landicgpe Ink Cy vdlice of trios to Be ramoved oa CAREX TUMULICOLA BERKELEY SEDGE 1 GAL
Kroenn thee Tree Eyeiluctiony Sharda e: PODOCARPUS GRACILIOR FERN PINE 15 GAL v v ;
ee Nee FOREST EASTERN REDBUD 15 GAL
Mintrwst) L5 val oo De repdoerd Subir aes QUERCUS AGRIFOLIA COAST LIVE OAK 15 GAL v v
thrawge payment ofin-lisu “wes: Ja-Bbeoct df CHONDROPETALUM ELEPH. CAPE RUSH 5 GAL
Siew Tress ACER PALMATUM ’SANGO KAKU’ | JAPANESE MAPLE 24” BOX FESTUCA MAIREI ATLAS FESCUE 1 GAL
AThedscape WPT" (Lid) vats eqaryebers fo fd] algve, mist aitner so plonted on ane, or aa n-ne" ‘ee paed te the cety"s sheer ee planing IRIS DOUGLASIANA PACIFIC COAST IRIS. |1 GAL
fund iC he U yalve sown a1 ets edt equator arealer shar td), thes encredieu “ee enuset be paid ta Gse City’s clemet tree panties fire al the LAGERSTROEMIA 'TUSCARORA’ CRAPE MYRTLE 24” BOX
tobe defied Jr ee Capes airs her sie cot Screshke for eae lefacieas bd JUNCUS PATENS CALIF. GRAY RUSH 1 GAL
. OLEA EUROPAEA ‘SWAN HILL’ FRUITLESS OLIVE 24” BOX 236 MIMULUS AURANTIACUS MONKEY FLOWER 1 GAL
New Frees Heing Plantec*
LU Varue Total LG Vatue , PENSTEMON HETEROPHYLLUS BEARDTONGUE 1 GAL
‘Bt PISTACIA CHINENSIS CHINESE PISTACHE 24 BOX CASCADING PLANTS AND VINES
24 1b Ue
‘Winch bas QUERCUS AGRIFOLIA COAST LIVE OAK 24” BOX DISTICTIS BUCCINATORA RED TRUMPET VINE |5 GAL
Hnch bos FICUS PUMILA CREEPING FIC 5 GAL
"Haw fe plceren lees sea] ben adeillan and nat substitute require ts for cow Sree QUERCUS SHUMARDI SHUMARD RED OAK 24° BOX STREET TREE, PLANTED MIN 50° OC LEPTOSPERMUM S. PROSTRATE TEA TREE 1 GAL
tries, parking loc ines dr other cequered irees. , "HORIZONTALIS’
*#QUANTITY EXCLUDES CAMPUS DRIVE STREET TREES ARBUTUS UNEDO ‘MARINA STRAWBERRY TREE = 36° BOX ROSMARINUS. OFFICINALIS
Frog Swed to che Cby Soree: Treo Slain Fur: 31 "HUNTINGTON CARPET’ ROSEMARY 1 GAL
yal is greater iad (ep, Tare vec he anil vatoe Caticit calculared as below: LOPHOSTEMON CONFERTUS BRISBANE BOX 36” BOX
9444.9 SATUREJA DOUGLASII YERBA BUENA 1 GAL
jd-e =2444.9% (the annually detined $ per EL} wabue as par , ; ”
Current Comprehunghve Fee Schedute} $321 ARBUTUS UNEDO MARINA STRAWBERRY TREE 36 BOX “ TECOMARIA CAPENSIS CAPE HONEYSUCKLE |5 GAL
I OI OT x
NOTE: APPLICANT IS PROPOSING TO USE SILVA CELLS AT NEW TREE LOCATION FAR SOME HARDSCAPE AREAS IN GINKGO BILOBA ’FAIRMOUNT’ MAIDENHAIR TREE 48” BOX TRACHETOSPERMEM YAS. STAR YASMINE > GAL
ORDER TO PROVIDE LARGE ROOT ZONES, THUS MAXIMIZING TREE CANOPY SHADING POTENTIAL. APPLICANT REQUESTS TO RETAINING SYSTEM PLANTING A — NATURAL AREA
DISCUSS OFFSETTING IN-LIEU FEES FOR TREE MITIGATION WITH THE COST OF INSTALLING SILVA CELLS. NATURAL AREA LANDSCAPE MIX ECHIUM CANDICANS PRIDE OF MADEIRA 11 GAL
ARCTOSTAPHYLOS 'PACIFIC MIST’ | MANZANITA 1 GAL LANTANA CAMARA LANTANA 1 GAL
ARCTOSTAPHYLOS ‘HOWARD HOWARD McMINN LEPTOSPERMUM S.
McMINN’ MANZANITA 15 GAL *ORIZONTALIS’ PROSTRATE TEA TREE |1 GAL
BACCHARIS ’PIGEON POINT’ COYOTE BUSH 5 GAL ROSMARINUS. OFFICINALIS
, ROSEMARY 1 GAL
CEANOTHUS G. ‘ANCHOR BAY’ CALIFORNIA LILAC 1 GAL HUNTINGTON CARPET
MUHLENBERGIA RIGENS DEER GRASS 5 CAL MYOPORUM PARVIFOLIUM CREEPING MYOPORUM |1 GAL
RHAMNUS EVE. CASE’ COFFEEBERRY 15 CAL PENSTEMON HETEROPHYLLUS BEARDTONGUE 1 GAL
SALVIA SPATHACEA HUMMINGBIRD SACE 1. GAL TEUCRIUM CHAEMAEDRYS WALL GERMANDER 1 GAL
FOUNDATION LANDSCAPE. MIX VERBENA BONARIENSIS PURPLE TOP 1 GAL
ACAVE ’BLUE CLOW’ BLUE CLOW ACAVE 5 CAL RETAINING SYSTEM PLANTING B — RESIDENTIAL AREAS
ANIGOZANTHOS ’BUSH GOLD’ — KANGAROO PAW 1 GAL ALONIUM CANARIENSE HOUSELEEK 1 GAL
AGAVE ATTENUATA FOXTAIL AGAVE 1 GAL
» |FEATHER REED
CALAMAGROSTIS KARL FOESTER CRASS 5 GAL ARMERIA THRIFT 1 CAL
DIETES BICOLOR FORTNIGHT LILY 5 GAL BACCHARIS 'PIGEON POINT’ COYOTE BUSH 1 GAL
LEUCADENDRON SAFARI YELLOW CONEFLOWER 5 GAL BOUGAINVILLEA BARBARA KARST | BOUGAINVILLEA 1 GAL
GOLDSTRIKE BULBINE FRUTESCENS STALKED BULBINE 1. GAL
LOMANDRA BREEZE DWARF MAT RUSH [1 GAL DROSANTHEMUM HISPIDUM ROSEA ICE PLANT 1 GAL
PITTOSPORUM TENUIFOLIUM KOHUHU 15 GAL NARROW-—LEAF
POLYSTICHUM CALIFORNICA SWORD FERN 1 GAL SENECIO.VITALIS CHALKSTICKS 1 GAL
TEUCRIUM FRUTICANS ’AZUREUM’ |BUSH GERMANDER 5 GAL RETAINING SYSTEM PLANTING © — RESIDENTIAL AREAS
PARK MIX Ped bdbds ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM YARROW 1 GAL
HEE BULBINE FRUTESCENS STALKED BULBINE 1 GAL Ucieiis|AJUGA GENEVENSIS CARPET BUGLE 1 GAL
HELICHTOTRICHON SEMPERVIRENS BLUE OAT GRASS 5S GAL iiGugigl fa] LONICERA JAPONICA ’HALLIANA’ | HONEYSUCKLE 1 GAL
LEUCOPHYLLUM FRUT. TEXAS RANGER 5 GAL felfulfaiiaye| SATUREJA DOUGLASII YERBA BUENA 1 GAL
LOROPETALUM CHINENSE LOROPETALUM 5 GAL jcpebepaee TRACHELOSPERMUM ASIATICUM = ASIAN STAR JASMINE | 1 GAL
MUHLENBERGIA RIGENS DEER GRASS 5 GAL “2)2)2-2)2| VERBENA "HOMESTEAD PURPLE PURPLE VERBENA —|1 GAL
PHLOMIS FRUTICOSA JERUSALEM SAGE 5 GAL
PHORMIUM NEW ZEALAND FLAX |5 GAL
SANTA BARBARA
fi SALVIA LEUCANTHA SACE 5 GAL

PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC

JOB NO. 1483.001
DATE 08-13-20

2 Theatre Sq., Ste 218
Orinda, Ca 94563
925-254-5422

PLANTING SCHEDULE JETT

LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DESIGN



--- page 215 ---


--- page 216 ---


--- page 217 ---


--- page 218 ---
NATURAL AREA

FOUNDATION

TREES

LANDSCAPE MIX

LANDSCAPE MIX

PARK MIX

STORMWATER MIX

a = |

ARBUTUS UNEDO ’MARINA’ CEANOTHUS ’RAY HARTMAN’
STRAWBERRY TREE MOUNTAIN. LILAC

PODOCARPUS GRACILIOR QUERCUS AGRIFOLIA
FERN PINE

PISTACIA CHINENSIS
CHINESE PISTACHE

, a
LAURUS ’SARATOGA’ LOPHOSTEM
LAUREL

GINGKO B. ‘FAIRMOUNT’ LAGERSTROEMIA INDICA
MAIDENHAIR: TREE CRAPE MYRTLE

- CERCIS OCCIDENTALIS
WESTERN REDBUD

ACER PALMATUM
JAPANESE MAPLE

FRUITLESS OLIVE

BRISBANE BOX COAST LIVE OAK

MUHLENBERGIA RIGENS
DEER GRASS

SALVIA SPATHACEA
HUMMINGBIRD SAGE

RHAMNUS CAL. EVE CASE’
COFFEEBERRY

CEANOTHUS G. ’ANCHOR BAY’
CALIFORNIA LILAC

BACCHARIS PIGEON POINT’
COYOTE BUSH

ARCTOSTAPHYLOS ‘PACIFIC MIST’
MANZANITA

PITTOSPORUM TENUIFOLIUM
KOHUHU

TEUCRIUM FRUTICANS ‘AZAREUM’
BUSH GERMANDER

LOMANDRA ‘BREEZE’
DWARF MAT RUSH

CALAMAGROSTIS DIETES BICOLOR
FEATHER REED GRASSFORTNIGHT LILY

LEUCADENDRON
YELLOW CONEFLOWER

ANIGOZANTHOS *BUSH GOLD’
KANGAROO PAW

AGAVE ‘BLUE GLOW’
BLUE GLOW AGAVE

SALVIA. LEUCANTHA
SANTA BARBARA SAGE

-

LEUCOPHYLUM FRUTESCENS
TEXAS RANGER

LOROPETALUM CHINENSE
FRINGE FLOWER

MUHLENBERGIA RIGENS
DEER GRASS

HELICHTOTRICHON SEMPERVIRENS
BLUE OAT GRASS

BULBINE FRUTISCENS
STALKED BULBINE

PHLOMIS FRUTICOSA
JERUSALEM SAGE

PHORMIUM
NEW ZEALAND FLAX

: :

CERCIS CANADENSIS ’FOREST PANSY’ CHONDROPETALUM ELEPH.
EASTERN REDBUD CAPE RUSH

- rt" (AF —
fu’ :

ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM ARCTOSTAPHYLOS CAREX TUMICULA
YARROW HOWARD MCMINN MANZANITA BERKELEY SEDGE

JUNCUS PATENS
CALIF. GRAY RUSH

IRIS DOUGLASIANA
PACIFIC COAST IRIS

MIMULUS AURANTIACUS
MONKEY FLOWER

PENSTEMON HETEROPHYLLUS
BEARDTONGUE

ATLAS FESCUE

PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC

QUERCUS SHUMARDI|
SHUMARD RED OAK

PLANT SCHEDULE
SYMBOL BOTANICAL NAME COMMON NAME SIZE

TREES
CEANOTHUS ’RAY HARTMAN’ MOUNTAIN LILAC 15 CAL
CERCIS OCCIDENTALIS WESTERN REDBUD 15 GAL
LAURUS NOBILIS ’SARATOCA’ LAUREL 15 CAL
PODOCARPUS GRACILIOR FERN PINE 15 CAL
QUERCUS AGRIFOLIA COAST LIVE OAK 15 CAL
ACER PALMATUM ’SANGO KAKU’ | JAPANESE MAPLE 24” BOX
LAGERSTROEMIA TUSCARORA’ CRAPE MYRTLE 24” BOX
OLEA EUROPAEA ’SWAN HILL’ FRUITLESS OLIVE 24” BOX
PISTACIA CHINENSIS CHINESE PISTACHE 24” BOX
QUERCUS AGRIFOLIA COAST LIVE OAK 24” BOX
QUERCUS SHUMARDII SHUMARD RED OAK 24” BOX

(-) ARBUTUS UNEDO. ’MARINA’ STRAWBERRY TREE | 36” BOX
LOPHOSTEMON CONFERTUS BRISBANE BOX 36” BOX
ARBUTUS UNEDO. ’MARINA’ STRAWBERRY TREE 36” BOX
GINKGO BILOBA ’FAIRMOUNT’ MAIDENHAIR. TREE 48” BOX

NATURAL AREA LANDSCAPE MIX
ARCTOSTAPHYLOS PACIFIC MIST’ | MANZANITA 1 GAL
ARCTOSTAPHYLOS "HOWARD HOWARD McMINN 15 CAL
McMINN’ MANZANITA
BACCHARIS ’PIGEON POINT’ COYOTE BUSH 5 CAL
CEANOTHUS G. ’ANCHOR BAY’ CALIFORNIA LILAC 1 GAL
MUHLENBERGIA RIGENS DEER GRASS 5 CAL
RHAMNUS "EVE CASE’ COFFEEBERRY 15 CAL
SALVIA SPATHACEA HUMMINGBIRD SAGE 11 GAL

FOUNDATION LANDSCAPE MIX
AGAVE ’BLUE GLOW’ BLUE GLOW AGAVE (5 GAL
ANIGOZANTHOS ’BUSH GOLD’ KANGAROO PAW 1 GAL
CALAMACROSTIS ’KARL FOESTER’ | TEATHER REED 5 CAL

GRASS

DIETES BICOLOR FORTNIGHT. LILY 5 CAL

LEUCADENDRON ‘SAFARI
GOLDSTRIKE’

YELLOW CONEFLOWER

5S GAL

LOMANDRA ’BREEZE’ DWARF MAT RUSH 1 GAL
PITTOSPORUM TENUIFOLIUM KOHUHU 15 GAL
POLYSTICHUM CALIFORNICA SWORD FERN 1 GAL
TEUCRIUM FRUTICANS ’AZUREUM’ BUSH GERMANDER  |5 GAL
PARK MIX
ee BULBINE FRUTESCENS STALKED BULBINE 11 GAL
HELICHTOTRICHON SEMPERVIRENS BLUE OAT GRASS 5 GAL
LEUCOPHYLLUM FRUT. TEXAS RANGER 5 GAL
LOROPETALUM CHINENSE LOROPETALUM 5 CAL
MUHLENBERGIA RIGENS DEER GRASS 5 CAL
PHLOMIS FRUTICOSA JERUSALEM SAGE 5 GAL
PHORMIUM NEW ZEALAND FLAX 5 GAL
| SALA LEUCANTHA onee en 5 CAL
© TURF FESCUE BLEND
STORMWATER
; ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM YARROW 1 GAL
ARCTOSTAPHYLOS "HOWARD HOWARD MCMINN gy
v MCMINN’ MANZANITA
CAREX TUMULICOLA BERKELEY SEDGE 1 GAL
sane CANADENSIS "FOREST —cacteRN REDBUD 15. GAL
CHONDROPETALUM ELEPH. CAPE RUSH 5 CAL
FESTUCA MAIREI ATLAS. FESCUE 1 GAL
IRIS DOUGLASIANA PACIFIC COAST IRIS 1 GAL
JUNCUS. PATENS CALIF. GRAY RUSH 1 GAL

A ALK AL IL Le

11

PLANT IMAGES JETT |

LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DESIGN

MAAK ZENZ Ct VAI

A_OA1

JOB NO.
DATE

925-254-5422

1483.001 KD

08-13-20

2 Theatre Sq., Ste 218
Orinda, Ca 94563

NORTH

ZY

L3.04



--- page 219 ---
WALL PLANTING B WALL PLANTING A CASCADING PLANTS

WALL PLANTING C

oe)

Lo

Za

>

S DISTICTIS BUCCINATORA
RED TRUMPET VINE

<t

Y)

<t

Lo

(aad

<{

_I

<t

(aa

=)

or ECHIUM CANDICANS
PRIDE OF MADEIRA

Zz

—Y)

<t

Lo

(aa

<t

_I

=

-—

Za

Li

Q AN

——_ is

Vv) AEONIUM CANARIENSE
HOUSELEEK

Oc

Y)

<t

Lo

(aad

<t

_I

<<

a

Zz

Lo

Cc)

v) ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM
YARROW

(aa

FICUS PUMILA
CREEPING FIG

LANTANA CAMARA
LANTANA

AGAVE ATTENUATA
FOXTAIL AGAVE

AJUGA GENEVENSIS
CARPET BUGLE

LEPTOSPERMUM S. ’HORIZANTALIS’
PROSTRATE TEA TREE

ROSEMARY

*
LEPTOSPERMUM S. HORIZONTALIS
PROSTRATE TEA TREE

ARMERIA MARITIMA
THRIFT

LONICERA JAPONICA ‘HALLIANA’
HONEYSUCKLE

ROSMARINUS °H

UNTINGTON CARPET’

ROSMARINUS OFFICINALIS ’
CREEPING ROSEMARY

BACCARIS ’PIGEON POINT’
DWARF COYOTE BUSH

SATUREJA DOUGLASI!

YERBA BUENA

PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS POP INVESTOR, LLC

SATUREJA DOUGLASII
YERBBA BUENA

=

eon

PENSTEMON HE
BEARDTONGUE

HUNTINGTON. CARPET’

BOUGAINVILLEA ‘BARBARA KARST’
BOUGAINVILLEA

TRACHELOSPERMUM ASI.

TECOMARIA CAPENSIS
CAPE HONEYSUCKLE

TRACHELOSPERMUM ASI.
ASIAN STAR JASMINE

oo.

TEROPHYLLUS

WALL GERMANDER

BULBINE FRUTESCENS
STALKED BULBINE

VERBENA ’HOMESTEAD PURPLE’
ASIAN STAR JASMINE PURPLE VERBENA

TEUCRIUM CHAEMADRYS

DROSANTHEMUM HISPIDUM:
ROSEA ICE PLANT

PLANT IMAGES JETT |

VERBENA CONARIENSIS
PURPLE TOP

SENECIO VITALIS

PLANT SCHEDULE

SYMBOL BOTANICAL NAME COMMON NAME

SIZE

V WIMVIULUDS AURANTIAUVUS WUONKCT TLOWEN T GAL
.« |PENSTEMON HETEROPHYLLUS BEARDTONGUE 1 GAL
CASCADING PLANTS AND VINES
- DISTICTIS BUCCINATORA RED TRUMPET VINE |5 CAL
FICUS PUMILA CREEPING FIG 5 GAL
LEPTOSPERMUM S.
HORIZONTALIS’ PROSTRATE TEA TREE 1 GAL
ROSMARINUS. OFFICINALIS
'HUNTINGTON CARPET’ ROSEMARY 1 GAL
SATUREJA DOUGLASII YERBA BUENA 1 GAL
TECOMARIA CAPENSIS CAPE HONEYSUCKLE (5 GAL
TRACHELOSPERMUM JAS. STAR JASMINE 5 GAL
RETAINING SYSTEM PLANTING A — NATURAL AREA
ECHIUM CANDICANS PRIDE OF MADEIRA 1 GAL
LANTANA CAMARA LANTANA 1 GAL
LEPTOSPERMUM S.
HORIZONTALS PROSTRATE TEA TREE 1 GAL
ROSMARINUS. OFFICINALIS
’HUNTINGTON CARPET’ ROSEMARY | GAL
MYOPORUM PARVIFOLIUM CREEPING MYOPORUM 1 GAL
PENSTEMON HETEROPHYLLUS | BEARDTONGUE 1 GAL
TEUCRIUM CHAEMAEDRYS WALL GERMANDER 1 GAL
VERBENA BONARIENSIS PURPLE TOP 1 GAL
RETAINING SYSTEM PLANTING B — RESIDENTIAL AREAS
AEONIUM CANARIENSE HOUSELEEK 1 GAL
AGAVE ATTENUATA FOXTAIL AGAVE 1 GAL
ARMERIA THRIFT 1 GAL
BACCHARIS ’PIGEON POINT’ COYOTE BUSH 1 GAL
BOUGAINVILLEA ’BARBARA KARST’ | BOUGAINVILLEA 1 GAL
BULBINE FRUTESCENS STALKED BULBINE 1 GAL
DROSANTHEMUM HISPIDUM ROSEA ICE PLANT 1 GAL
SENECIO. VITALIS SHA KeTICKe 1 GAL
RETAINING SYSTEM PLANTING C — RESIDENTIAL AREAS
ous] 50 ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM YARROW 1 GAL
“5/5 /5+ 2+ AJUGA-GENEVENSIS CARPET BUGLE 1 CAL
EL EIETC/S LONICERA JAPONICA ’HALLIANA’ | HONEYSUCKLE 1 GAL
meppebcad SATUREJA DOUGLASII YERBA BUENA 1 GAL
USS ]5 TRACHELOSPERMUM ASIATICUM ASIAN STAR JASMINE 1 GAL
“sue eoie-° VERBENA 'HOMESTEAD PURPLE PURPLE VERBENA 1. GAL

TT NORTH

JOB NO. 1483.01 [7

DATE 08-13-20 ve
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DESIGN 2 Theatre Sq., Ste 218 N, 7

Orinda, Ca 94563
925-254-5422

L3.05



--- page 220 ---
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DATA FORM 
NAME:  
Peninsula Heights (SUP + SPAR 
+ SDPA + Vesting Tentative 
Map) 
PA:  
PA-2020-012 
ADDRESS:  
2800 and 2988 Campus Drive 
(Northern) 
2655 and 2755 Campus Drive 
(Southern) 
LOT SIZE:  
Northern Parcel: 
   7.04 acres (306,609 sq. ft.) 
Southern Parcel: 
   8.41 acres (366,353 sq. ft.) 
TOTAL: 
  15.45 acres (672,962 sq. ft.) 
ZONING:  
E1-1 (Executive Office) 
APN:  
041-521-010, -020 (Northern) 
041-522-010, -020 (Southern) 
 
 
FLOOR AREA: 
  Northern Parcel: 
  Southern Parcel: 
TOTAL: 
PROPOSED 
 
309,304 sq. ft. 1 
367,995 sq. ft. 1 
677,299 sq. ft. 1 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED 
 
306,609 sq. ft. 
366,353 sq. ft. 
672,962 sq. ft. 
F.A.R.:  
  Northern Parcel: 
  Southern Parcel: 
TOTAL/AVG: 
 
1.008 1 
1.004 1 
1.006 1 
 
1.0 
1.0 
1.0 
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY: 
  Northern Parcel: 
  Southern Parcel: 
 
19.03 units/acre 
18.55 units/acre 
 
34.84 units/acre 
34.84 units/acre 
BLDG. HEIGHT: 
   Northern Parcel: 
   Southern Parcel: 
 
43’-0” 
43’-0” 
 
55’-0” 
55’-0” 
STORIES: 
 Up to 4 
- 
UNITS: 
  Northern Parcel: 
  Southern Parcel: 
TOTAL: 
 
134 
156 
290 
 
293 
245 
538 
UNIT TYPE 
  2-Bedroom: 
  3-Bedroom+: 
TOTAL: 
 
NO. 
58 
232 
290 
PROPOSED SIZE 
1,363 sq. ft. to 1,523 sq. ft. 
1,302 sq. ft. to 2,379 sq. ft. 
- 
MINIMUM SIZE 
- 
- 
- 
SETBACKS/BUFFERS: 
Northern Parcel 
  Front (Campus Dr.): 
  Left Side (Live Oak Dr.) 
  Right Side: 
  Rear (Residential Buffer): 
Southern Parcel 
  Front (Campus Dr.): 
  Left Side: 
  Right Side: 
  Rear: 
PROPOSED 
 
15’-0” 
15’-0” 
24’-0” 
14’-0” 2 
 
21’-0” 
21’-0” 
15’-0” 
15’-0” 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
 
15’-0” 
15’-0” 
0-0” 
15-0” OR 1/2 Building Height 
 
15’-0” 
15-0” OR 1/2 Building Height 
0-0”  
15-0” OR 1/2 Building Height

--- page 221 ---
PARKING: 
  Northern Parcel Resident: 
  Northern Parcel Visitor:   
TOTAL Northern Parcel: 
  Southern Parcel Resident: 
  Southern Parcel Visitor: 
TOTAL Southern Parcel 
PROPOSED 
268 
21 
289 
312 
23 
335 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
266 
21 
287 
310 
23 
333 
LOADING SPACES: 
  Northern Parcel: 
  Southern Parcel: 
 
2 
2 
 
1 
1 
BICYCLE PARKING 
  Northern Parcel Long-Term: 
  Northern Parcel Short-Term: 
  Southern Parcel Long-Term: 
  Southern Parcel Short-Term: 
 
 208 
16 
224 
17 
 
154 
15 
166 
16 
OPEN SPACE 
  Northern Parcel: 
  Southern Parcel: 
 
133,372 sq. ft. (43 % at-grade) 
152,105 sq. ft. (41 % at-grade) 
 
107,313 sq. ft. (35% at-grade) 
128,224 sq. ft. (35% at-grade) 
TREES 
  Heritage Trees Removed 
  Non-Heritage Trees Removed 
  Heritage Trees Preserved 
  Non-Heritage Trees Preserved 
 
145 
182 
37 
48 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
FOOTNOTES: 
1. The applicant has requested to exceed the maximum floor area ratio as a waiver through 
State Density Bonus Law. 
2. The applicant has requested to reduce setback limitations as a waiver through State Density 
Bonus Law.

--- page 222 ---
080468\11659726v4 
 
 
 
July 17, 2020 
Aaron Aknin 
Acting Chief of Planning 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Re: 
Revised Request for Density Bonus Consistent with Government Code 
Section 65915 for Proposed Campus Drive Residential Project 
Dear Mr. Aknin: 
On behalf of 2800 Campus POP Owner, LLC, 2988 Campus POP Owner, LLC, 
2755 Campus POP Owner, LLC, and 2655 Campus POP Owner, LLC (together, “Harvest”), this 
letter serves as a revised request for a density bonus, waivers, and concessions, and application 
of parking standards consistent with State Density Bonus Law (Gov’t Code § 65915) for the 
proposed 290-unit residential development (“Project”) located at 2655, 2755, 2800, and 2988 
Campus Drive (“Property”) in the City of San Mateo (“City”).  
The Project would include 29 units (10 percent of the total units) that would be 
restricted to lower-income households (“Affordable Units”).  Under State Density Bonus Law, 
the Affordable Units qualify the Project for a 20 percent density bonus and one concession. 
(Gov’t Code § 65915(d).)  In addition, State Density Bonus Law provides maximum parking 
standards for density bonus projects, the application of which do not count as a concession.  
(Gov’t Code § 65915(p)(1), (p)(5).) 
We are requesting waivers from the following development standards that 
physically preclude the development of the proposed density bonus project: 26.20.060(a)-(b) 
which establishes lot frontage requirements which do not permit a site plan that includes the 
proposed number of units and because it is necessary to reduce the otherwise required 30’ 
frontage on several lots by approximately 6”-9” to avoid the loss of housing units and to preserve 
; 27.44.070 and 27.22.040 related to the minimum lot sizes in the E-1 District under a Special 
Use Permit which are physically incompatible with the proposed residential community; 
23.40.050 (c)(2)&(3) and 26.20.110 which would preclude grading the manufactured slopes 
located on the property needed to provide an adequate development footprint for the project; 
27.44.090(a) which would result increased setbacks due to the height of the project’s stairwell 
penthouses that are consistent with the zoning district’s height standards; and 27.44.060(d) which 
would otherwise preclude the proposed floor area ratio of slightly over 1.0.

--- page 223 ---
080468\11659726v4 
 
Mr. Aknin 
Acting Chief of Planning 
Page 2 
 
Harvest requests that the City’s standard parking ratios be applied to the project.  
However, Harvest requests that it be permitted to use tandem parking pursuant to Gov’t Code 
§ 65915(p)(5).   
Finally, although the Project would be entitled to a density bonus of 20 percent, 
Harvest requests a zero percent bonus.   
We look forward to working with you on the Project.  Please give me a call if you 
have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Preston O’Connell

--- page 224 ---
July 23 2020
Mr. Rendell Bustos
Department of Community Development
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403-1388
RE:		
Peninsula Heights Residential
Dear Rendell:
I reviewed the drawings, evaluated the site context, viewed the video of the Planning Commission Study Session, pre-
pared  review letter on March 19 and June 18, participated with staff in a video conference with the applicant’s team, and 
reviewed interim applicant materials. My comments on the current plans and elevations are as follows:
SITE CONTEXT
The site is located near the intersection of Highway 92 and Hillsdale Blvd. The current office structures on two parcels 
will be removed and replaced with single family and multifamily structures. Photographs of the site and surroundings are 
shown on the following page.
ARCHITECTURE	
PLANNING	
URBAN DESIGN

--- page 225 ---
Aerial of Sites looking North
Residential Neighborhood adjacent to North Area
Upper Entry to North Area and adjacent residential neigh-
borhood
Aerial of North Area looking south
Aerial of South Area looking south
Peninsula Heights Residential
Design Review Comments
July 23, 2020	
  Page 2

--- page 226 ---
Campus Drive near North Area
Campus Drive entry to South Area
Campus Drive entry to South Area
Roundabout at the end of Campus Drive
EVA at the end of Campus Drive
Campus Drive near North Area
Peninsula Heights Residential
Design Review Comments
July 23, 2020	
  Page 3

--- page 227 ---
ISSUES AND CONCERNS
Overall, the project is well planned and designed. There were, however, a few conditions and issues identified in the 
March 19 and June 18 review letters that were considered worthy of addressing. The applicant has provided some 
clarifying information, and refined designs. Below is a summary of previous concerns and current design refinements.
SITE PLANS
1.	 The previous review letter noted that some edges of Campus Drive at the North Area had limited setbacks and 
little room for buffering landscaping. The South Area had a greater setback and more landscaping, but there was no 
information provided at that time to indicate any privacy walls or the general streetscape appearance.
	
Applicant’s Response 
The applicant has now refined their approach to the site’s new retaining walls, and provided Campus Drive edge 
sections and visual examples - see below.
Peninsula Heights Residential
Design Review Comments
July 23, 2020	
  Page 4

--- page 228 ---
2.	 A concern was raised related to the degree to which the topography of both the North and South Areas are 
being altered. Both areas are currently divided into two flat pads separated by heavily landscape slopes. The current 
plans envision the removal of most of the natural landscaping, and the sculpting of the land forms to increase the 
amount of flat land area to accommodate more residential units. This will result in some tall retaining walls in areas 
that are today gradual landscaped slopes.
Sloped Open Space in middle of North Area
Peninsula Heights Residential
Design Review Comments
July 23, 2020	
  Page 5

--- page 229 ---
Applicant’s Response
Given the topography of the site, there were inherent site challenges to meet the Planning Commission’s request of 
1) wider array of unit types 2) maintain or increase density 3) increase functional open space and 4) maintain or 
increase the parking ratio. The applicant believes the project addresses the requests of the community and Plan-
ning Commission. In order to meet these requests, the project relies on a retaining system for hill stability. Further, 
the existing hillside stability relies on methods used during the 1960s and is inferior to the retaining system being 
proposed which will materially improve the hillside performance during a seismic event. This will improve the 
public health and safety for the project and existing neighbors. To mitigate the visual impacts of a retaining sys-
tem, the applicant has proposed a four-layer landscaping approach along the frontage of Campus Drive that will 
enhance the current experience along the street frontage. Today, there is only one layer of landscaping. Addition-
ally, the retaining system that is proposed for the project is fully plantable, providing native landscaping across the 
face of the wall, mitigating the “tall wall” perception. This proposed system includes a batter vs. vertical retaining 
wall which helps the retaining system mimic the existing hillside - see illustrations on page 4.
Recommendations: Staff believes that the applicant has responded to comments in ways that adequately address 
the Planning Commission’s comments. There are no recommendations for changes.
RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
SFD 1
Previous Concerns
1.	 There was a conflict between the floor plans on SFD 1 and the elevation and sketches.
2.	 The stripes on the stucco of the SFD 1 units were not described.
3.	Entry face second floor balcony was filled in to provide a larger living room, a powder room and a storage closet. 
Peninsula Heights Residential
Design Review Comments
July 23, 2020	
  Page 6

--- page 230 ---
Applicant’s Response
1.	 Floor plans and elevation drawing inconsistencies were eliminated.
2.	 Colored stripes were removed.
3.	 The applicant has spent considerable time designing an architecturally appealing project and addressing 
Larry’s concerns while taking into account the requests from Planning Commission to maintain density and 
offer a wider array of unit types. The 4” plane projection coupled with the use of various materials and color 
schemes will provide the visual plane breaks that Larry has referenced. Side setbacks for the SFD are typically 
tight and any projections more than 4” will result in larger blank wall conditions between units as we will 
not be able to provide windows due to the 1 hr. fire rating requirement. The other option would be to compress 
the interior living areas which would ultimately lead to a less functional floor layout and less diversity of size 
ranges within the project.
Recommendations: Staff believes that the applicant has responded to comments in ways that adequately address 
the staff’s concerns. There are no recommendations for changes.
SFD 2
Previous Concerns
1.	 Stacked balconies without any variation or setback were quite boxy..
2.	 The stair element rising to the roof level was very tall and boxy.
3. The entry was not well articulated.
Peninsula Heights Residential
Design Review Comments
July 23, 2020	
  Page 7

--- page 231 ---
Applicant’s Response
1.	 Corner staircase massing has been pushed back to create a less boxy elevation. A pitched roof creates a deliber-
ate step back at the upper-most level to reduce the facade height.
2.	 Entry has been redesigned and pushed back onto a different plane along the frontage accompanied by a single, 
covered balcony instead.
3.	  Single, covered balcony has been provided within a new break in plane to create a more articulated facade 
and deeper porch entry.
Recommendations: Staff believes that the applicant has responded to comments in ways that adequately address 
the staff’s concerns. There are no recommendations for changes.
MULTIFAMILY BUILDINGS
The design of original and current building types are include in this letter to provide a contextual 
reference for staff and the Planning Commission.  
4 DU TOWNHOMES
Applicant’s Changes
Pitched facade fronts have been added in lieu of the flat parapets.
Peninsula Heights Residential
Design Review Comments
July 23, 2020	
  Page 8

--- page 232 ---
7 DU TOWNHOMES
6 DU TOWNHOMES
Applicant’s Changes
•	 Pitched facade fronts have been added in lieu of the flat parapets.
•	 Second floor balcony railings in the center of the front elevation has been reduced in width, allowing more 
visual variety to the ground floor wall height.
Applicant’s Changes
•	
Pitched facade fronts have been added in lieu of the flat parapets.
•	
Another projecting bay form has been added in the mid section of the front facade.
•	
Second floor balcony railings in the center of the front elevation has been reduced in width, allowing more visual variety to 
the ground floor wall height.
•	
A change in color was made on the mid-section of the front facade ground floor.
Peninsula Heights Residential
Design Review Comments
July 23, 2020	
  Page 9

--- page 233 ---
8 DU TOWNHOMES
Applicant’s Changes
•	
The flat parapets of the previous design have been maintained.
•	
Another projecting bay form has been added in the mid-section of the front facade.
•	
Second floor balcony railings in the center of the front elevation have been reduced in width, allowing more visual variety 
to the ground floor wall height.
•	
A change in color was made on the mid-section of the front facade ground floor.
9 DU TOWNHOMES
Applicant’s Changes
•	
The flat parapets of the previous design have been maintained.
•	
Two projecting bay forms have been added in the mid-section of the front facade.
•	
Second floor balcony railings in the center of the front elevation have been reduced in width, allowing more visual variety 
to the ground floor wall height.
•	
A change in color was made on the mid-section of the front facade ground floor.
Peninsula Heights Residential
Design Review Comments
July 23, 2020	
  Page 10

--- page 234 ---
10 DU TOWNHOMES
Applicant’s Changes
•	
Pitched facade fronts have been added in lieu of the flat parapets.
•	
Two projecting bay forms have been added in the mid-section of the front facade.
•	
Second floor balcony railings in the center of the front elevation have been reduced in width, allowing more visual variety 
to the ground floor wall height.
•	
A change in color was made on the mid-section of the front facade ground floor.
Peninsula Heights Residential
Design Review Comments
July 23, 2020	
  Page 11

--- page 235 ---
12 DU OVER FLATS
Recommendations: Staff believes that the applicant has responded to comments in ways that adequately address 
the staff’s concerns. There are no recommendations for changes.
Rendell, please let me know if you have any questions, or if there are specific issues of concern that I did not address.
Sincerely,
CANNON DESIGN GROUP
Larry L. Cannon   
Applicant’s Changes
•	
Two facade versions have been developed - one flat and one pitched.
•	
Projecting bay forms have been changed in width and depth of projection in the mid-section of both the front and rear 
facades.
Peninsula Heights Residential
Design Review Comments
July 23, 2020	
  Page 12

--- page 236 ---
Transportation Impact Analysis  
 
 
 
Peninsula Heights Development TIA 
San Mateo, California 
 
FINAL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
November 2020

--- page 237 ---
Transportation Impact Analysis 
 
Peninsula Heights Development TIA 
San Mateo, California 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepared For: 
Rendell Bustos 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
(650) 522-7211 
 
Prepared By: 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
155 Grand Avenue, Suite 505  
Oakland, California 94612 
(510) 839-1742 
Project Analysts: Anusha Musunuru, Lindsey Willman  
Project Manager: Amanda Leahy, AICP 
Project Principal: Damian Stefanakis 
 
 
Project No. 24837.001 
November 2020

--- page 238 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | iii 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
Table of Contents .................................................................................................................................. iii 
Executive Summary .............................................................................................................................. vii 
Project Trip Generation ...................................................................................................................................................... vii 
CEQA Analysis .................................................................................................................................................................... vii 
Local Transportation Analysis ............................................................................................................................................. vii 
Introduction 
....................................................................................................................................... 8 
Project Description .............................................................................................................................................................. 8 
Scope of Study ................................................................................................................................................................... 12 
CEQA Analysis ..................................................................................................................................... 13 
Screening Criteria .............................................................................................................................................................. 13 
Significant Impact Thresholds ............................................................................................................................................. 13 
Impact Discussion .............................................................................................................................................................. 16 
Local Transportation Analysis .............................................................................................................. 17 
Scope of Study ................................................................................................................................................................... 17 
Existing Conditions ............................................................................................................................................................. 21 
Baseline Conditions............................................................................................................................................................ 30 
Project Travel Demand ....................................................................................................................................................... 32 
Baseline with Project Conditions ........................................................................................................................................ 33 
Cumulative Conditions ....................................................................................................................................................... 38 
Cumulative with Project Conditions .................................................................................................................................... 39 
95th Percentile Queue Analysis .......................................................................................................................................... 43 
Technical Appendix ............................................................................................................................................................ 48

--- page 239 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | iv 
 
 
LIST OF TABLES 
Table 1: Total VMT Calculations for Existing and Proposed Uses ........................................................ 16 
Table 2: Level of Service Definition for Intersections .......................................................................... 20 
Table 3: Existing Bus Service ................................................................................................................ 24 
Table 4: Existing Conditions Intersection Operations Results ............................................................. 27 
Table 5: Baseline Conditions Intersection Operations Results ............................................................ 30 
Table 6: Project Trip Generation .......................................................................................................... 33 
Table 7: Baseline with Project Conditions Intersection Operations Results........................................ 38 
Table 8: Cumulative Conditions Intersection Operations Results ....................................................... 39 
Table 9: Cumulative with Project Conditions Intersection Operations Results ................................... 43 
Table 10: Existing Storage Lengths ...................................................................................................... 44 
Table 11: 95th Percentile Queue Lengths for Existing Conditions....................................................... 45 
Table 12: 95th Percentile Queue Lengths for Baseline and Baseline with Project Conditions ........... 46 
Table 13: 95th Percentile Queue Lengths for Cumulative and Cumulative with Project Conditions .. 47

--- page 240 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | v 
 
 
LIST OF FIGURES 
Figure 1: Project Location ...................................................................................................................... 9 
Figure 2: Site Plan................................................................................................................................. 10 
Figure 3: VMT Per Capita Map ............................................................................................................. 14 
Figure 4: VMT Per Employee Map ....................................................................................................... 15 
Figure 5: Study Intersections ............................................................................................................... 19 
Figure 6: Existing Bicycle Network ....................................................................................................... 25 
Figure 7: Existing Transit Service.......................................................................................................... 26 
Figure 8: Existing Conditions Traffic Control and Lane Configurations ............................................... 28 
Figure 9: Existing Conditions Peak Hour Turning Movement Volumes ............................................... 29 
Figure 10: Baseline Conditions Traffic Control and Lane Configurations ............................................ 31 
Figure 11: Baseline with Project Conditions Peak Hour Turning Movement Volumes ....................... 37 
Figure 12: Cumulative Conditions Traffic Control and Lane Configurations ....................................... 40 
Figure 13: Cumulative Conditions Peak Hour Turning Movement Volumes ....................................... 41 
Figure 14: Cumulative with Project Conditions Peak Hour Turning Movement Volumes .................. 42

--- page 241 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | vi 
 
 
APPENDICES 
Appendix A: Traffic Volume Estimation Memo ................................................................................... 49 
Appendix B: Existing Conditions Synchro Worksheets ........................................................................ 55 
Appendix C: Baseline Conditions Synchro Worksheets ....................................................................... 70 
Appendix D: Baseline with Project Conditions Synchro Worksheets .................................................. 85 
Appendix E: Cumulative Conditions Synchro Worksheets................................................................. 100 
Appendix F: Cumulative with Project Conditions Synchro Worksheets ............................................ 117

--- page 242 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | vii 
 
 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
PROJECT TRIP GENERATION 
The proposed project is estimated to generate 58 fewer vehicle trips (-130 inbound, 72 outbound) during 
the weekday AM peak hour and 22 fewer vehicle trips (73 inbound, -95 outbound) during the weekday 
PM peak hour compared to the existing office use. Accounting for the difference between the proposed 
project trips and the existing occupancy of the office buildings, the proposed project would not meet the 
minimum threshold of 100 new peak hour vehicle trips for a congestion management program (CMP) 
analysis per C/CAG CMP guidelines.    
CEQA ANALYSIS 
The proposed project is located within transportation analysis zone (TAZ) 2965, which has a vehicle miles 
traveled (VMT) per Capita of 23.9 and exceeds the countywide regional average of 15.5 VMT per Capita. 
Given that the project would replace an existing commercial area, the total VMT, generated by the 
existing and proposed land uses, was calculated to determine whether the proposed project would result 
in a net increase in VMT. Based on the total VMT calculations, the proposed project would result in a net 
reduction of 4,085 VMT at the project site and would result in a less-than-significant impact with respect 
to VMT. 
LOCAL TRANSPORTATION ANALYSIS 
Kittelson conducted the intersection level of service analysis at four study intersections for Existing, 
Baseline, Baseline with Project, Cumulative, and Cumulative with Project Conditions for weekday AM and 
PM peak hour traffic conditions. Kittelson reviewed the site access and on-site circulation based on the 
proposed site plan and the changes in the 95th percentile queue lengths caused by the proposed project 
at the study intersections. The results for all scenarios are presented in the report below. The proposed 
project would not cause any study intersections to exceed the level of service standard as specified in the 
City’s Circulation Element of the 2030 General Plan, i.e. the acceptable level of service standards that 
were in place in February 2020, at the time of the Senate Bill 330 Application1.    
 
 
 
1 The developer submitted a Senate Bill 330 Application in February 2020 that freezes codes and policies in effect of its 
submitted date.

--- page 243 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 8 
INTRODUCTION 
This report documents the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) analysis findings and the local 
transportation analysis conducted for the proposed Peninsula Heights development in San Mateo, 
California (Figure 1). 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
Project Location 
The proposed project is located to the east of California State Route 92 (SR 92), on a hillside, across two 
parcels of 15.45 acres in San Mateo, California (Figure 1). Access to the existing site is provided via two 
two-way driveways on the north side and two two-way driveways on the south side of Campus Drive. 
Nearby land uses include residential, office, commercial, recreational, and institutional. There is also an 
undeveloped canyon to the south and southeast of the site.  
Existing and Proposed Uses 
The existing site includes two parcels divided by Campus Drive – a northern parcel (7.04 acres) and a 
southern parcel (8.41 acres). The site includes four office buildings totaling 224,844 square feet of office 
space. The General Plan designation of the project site is Executive Office and zoned as E1-1 (Executive 
Park) which supports administrative, executive, and office-related commercial uses. Residential use is 
permitted in this zone with a Special Use Permit and is subject to the minimum development standards 
for R3 zoning and affordable housing requirements as adopted by City Council resolution.  
Harvest Properties is proposing to replace the existing office buildings and construct 290 residential units 
composed of three-story, four-story townhomes, stacked flats, and detached single-family residences. 
The northern parcel would accommodate 60 four-story townhomes, 44 three-story townhomes, and 30 
single-family dwelling units. The southern parcel would consist of 54 four-story townhomes, 58 three-
story townhomes, and 44 single-family dwelling units (Figure 2). Each residential building would be a 
maximum of 46 feet tall, and each unit would range between 1,400 to 2,200 square feet. The project 
would reserve 10 percent of units as below market rate (BMR) units, for a total of 29 affordable units, 
and would qualify for benefits under the State Density Bonus law (California Government Code 65915).  
Additional on-site amenities would include four to six mini-parks, picnic areas, open spaces, terraces, and 
1.2 miles of landscaped paths that would provide the residences public access to the surrounding 
roadways and neighborhoods. Regional access to the project site would be primarily provided by State 
Route 92 via W Hillsdale Boulevard and Campus Drive. Local access to the project site would be provided 
by Campus Drive.

--- page 244 ---
N
C:\Users\lwillman\appdata\local\temp\AcPublish_21652\24837-Figures.dwg      Sep 17, 2020 - 8:43am -  lwillman      Layout Tab: Project Location
Project Location
1
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis
Figure
SAN MATEO COUNTY
82
84
92
35
1
280
101
SITE

--- page 245 ---
C:\Users\lwillman\appdata\local\temp\AcPublish_21652\24837-Figures.dwg      Sep 17, 2020 - 8:43am -  lwillman      Layout Tab: Site Plan
Site Plan
2
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis
Figure
Received from City of San Mateo (July 13, 2020)

--- page 246 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 11 
 
 
Transportation Demand Management Plan 
The proposed project would implement a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan to encourage 
sustainable, automobile-alternative, modes of transportation and reduce vehicle trips to and from the 
site. The available TDM services, proposed and recommended TDM measures are summarized in this 
section from the TDM Plan2, as follows. 
Available TDM Services 
Commute.org is San Mateo County’s Transportation Demand Management Agency. The residents and 
employees of the proposed project site will be able to take advantage of TDM resources curated for those 
commuting within the county and in surrounding areas, including:  
▪ 
CAM Shuttle (Campus Drive, Commute.org Shuttle) 
▪ 
Try Transit Incentives 
▪ 
Ridematching 
▪ 
Carpool Incentives 
▪ 
Vanpool Incentives 
▪ 
Bike Education 
▪ 
Bike Incentives 
▪ 
E-Bike Rebate 
▪ 
Guaranteed Ride Home (GRH) 
Proposed TDM Measures 
The developer proposed TDM measures include the following:  
▪ 
Upgrading current Class III Bicycle Route to Class II bike lane on Campus Drive from the shopping 
center to the east end gate, 
▪ 
Sidewalk improvements to the proposed project site (study area), aligning with the City’s 
Pedestrian Design Guidelines, 
▪ 
Providing short term bike racks and long-term bicycle parking, and  
▪ 
prewiring for electric vehicle charging in garages.  
Additional Recommended TDM Measures 
In addition to the developer proposed TDM measures by Harvest Properties, Steer Group recommended 
programmatic TDM measures to reduce VMT and increase sustainable trips. The Peninsula Heights TDM 
Plan outlines each of the TDM measures in detail, including the guidelines for implementation, cost 
estimates for each of the TDM measures, expected timelines, and anticipated responsible party for each 
 
2 Peninsula Heights TDM Plan, Prepared for the City of San Mateo by Steer Group, September 2020.

--- page 247 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 12 
 
 
recommended measure. This section outlines the TDM measures developed by Steer Group, as part of 
this project, as follows: 
▪ 
TDM Administration and Information Sharing 
▪ 
Bike and Walk Strategies 
▪ 
Recommended Shared Vehicle Strategies 
SCOPE OF STUDY 
The purpose of this transportation analysis is to determine whether the proposed project would have 
transportation impacts, as defined by the City of San Mateo’s acceptable level of service standards in the 
Circulation Element of the 2030 General Plan, and VMT guidelines provided by the Governor’s Office of 
Planning and Research (OPR), as of February 2020. The City was in the process of developing updated 
Traffic Impact Analysis Guidelines consistent with the City’s General Plan and OPR requirements. The 
analysis covers the following topics: 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Analysis 
The California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) transportation analysis assesses how the study area’s 
transportation system would operate with the implementation of the proposed project at Peninsula 
Heights. The technical advisory provided by the OPR specifically addresses the requirements of California 
Senate Bill (SB) 743 which mandated specific types of CEQA analysis of land use development and 
transportation projects effective July 1, 2020. The quantitative methodology, significance thresholds, and 
mitigation measures for conducting transportation analysis are based on vehicle miles traveled (VMT) 
metrics.  
Local Transportation Analysis 
The City of San Mateo requires the analysis of unsignalized and signalized intersections, though it does 
not require the analysis of roadway segments, in compliance with the 2030 General Plan. Since a roadway 
segment’s capacity is generally controlled by the downstream intersection, an intersection analysis is 
sufficient for assessing a project’s impacts. Based on the discussions with City Staff and the approved 
scope of work, Kittelson evaluated the following under the local transportation analysis section:  
▪ 
Site Access and On-Site Circulation 
o Vehicular Access 
o Pedestrian Access 
o Bicyclist Access 
o Transit Access 
o Emergency Vehicle Access 
▪ 
Intersection Operations 
o Level of Service 
o Vehicle Queueing

--- page 248 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 13 
 
 
CEQA ANALYSIS 
SCREENING CRITERIA 
According to the technical advisory by OPR3, a project requires detailed VMT analysis unless it meets at 
least one of the City’s five screening criteria: 
1. Small Projects  
2. Affordable Housing  
3. Local-Serving Retail and Public Services  
4. High-Quality Transit Area  
5. Project Located in Low VMT Areas  
The proposed project would not meet any of the OPR’s screening criteria and would not be screened out 
for the reasons described below. As such, a detailed VMT analysis is required. 
1. Small Projects – The proposed project has 290 residential units and generates more than 110 
vehicle daily trips.  
2. Affordable Housing – The affordable housing for the proposed project is 10 percent which is less 
than 100 percent criterion specified in the guidelines.  
3. Local-Serving Retail and Public Services – The proposed project is 100 percent residential, so this 
criterion does not apply.  
4. High-Quality Transit Area – The proposed project is not located in a high-quality transit area as 
specified in Attachment A of the guidelines.  
5. Project Located in Low VMT Areas – The proposed project is in TAZ 2965 with VMT per Capita of 
23.9. San Mateo County has a regional average of 15.5 VMT per Capita with an impact threshold 
of 13.1 VMT per Capita for residential uses. The project is not located within a low VMT area (See 
Figure 3 and Figure 4). 
SIGNIFICANT IMPACT THRESHOLDS 
For projects which do not meet the screening criteria; the following threshold is used to assess a 
significant impact related to VMT, consistent with the OPR guidance. For residential projects, the 
project’s impact would be considered significant if it would - Generate VMT per Capita greater than 15 
percent below the existing San Mateo County average of 13.1 VMT per Capita  
 
 
 
3 Technical Advisory on Evaluating Transportation Impacts in CEQA, Governor’s Office of Planning and Research, 
December 2018.

--- page 249 ---
C:\Users\lwillman\appdata\local\temp\AcPublish_26704\24837-Figures.dwg      Aug 28, 2020 - 3:13pm -  lwillman      Layout Tab: VMT Per Capita
3
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis
Figure
ß/
101
∙þ
82
∙þ
35
∙þ
92
§¨¦
280
13.9
13.8
20
14.5
14.2
16.9
13.4
14.3
18.1
14.1
14.1
12
13.5
12.2
19.8
16.2
16.7
15.9
13.1
19.9
13.4
16.9
11.3
21.5
0.3
12.7
17
17.2
13
16.9
17.4
11.6
16.6
15.2
12.4
15.6
17.2
18.3
13.8
14.6
13
12.5
12.8
12.8
17.6
12.2
15.7
15.3
17.5
14.3
14.8
15
14.2
16.5
23.3
19.7
13.8
14.1
17.2
19
0.3
11.7
17.6
15.6
18.8
12.2
16.4
11.5
10.6
16.1
17.7
13.9
18.8
17.9
14.1
15.3
15.5
11
7.2
17.9
18.3
14.5
18.3
20
15.1
16.1
14.6
15.7
7
15.9
0.1
14.7
18.7
16.6
14.4
17.3
19.5
13.1
12.7
15.5
16.8
15.5
19.1
13
15.1
13.6
17.5
14.6
16.9
18.5
20.2
21
15.4
14.3
15.5
11.8
15.6
13.6
15.7
16.5
15.2
5.6
14.8
13.8
17.3
20.1
20
14.8
13.2
17.6
14.9
15.5
17.7
17.9
17.6
18.9
17.8
14.9
16.2
15.6
13.8
17.4
17.9
14
13.4
19.5
16.3
18.5
15.7
16.7
13.7
23.9
15.7
17.9
22.5
15.1
16.6
0.1
14.2
20.9
18.7
14.3
14.4
0.1
16.9
13.5
20.1
18.6
15.7
15.9
16.9
14.5
18.4
15.3
17.4
11.5
16.9
15.6
15.7
16.7
14.3
14.6
15.8
13.4
13.1
12.9
13.8
13.6
9.4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
H:\24\24441 - City of San Mateo Transportation On-Call\GIS\TAZ Households_Screening.mxd   Date: 6/12/2020
[
0
3,900Feet
Average VMT/ Capita by TAZ
< 13.1 - Below Target VMT (County
Average - 15%)
13.1 - 15.5 - Target VMT (County
Average- 15%) to County Average
> 15.5 - Above County Average
No Data
City Boundary
High Quality Transit Area
Priority Development Area
*Average VMT per Capita by TAZ for San Mateo County is 15.5
Project Site
VMT Per Capita

--- page 250 ---
C:\Users\lwillman\appdata\local\temp\AcPublish_26704\24837-Figures.dwg      Aug 28, 2020 - 3:13pm -  lwillman      Layout Tab: VMT Per Employee
4
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis
0
Figure
ß/
101
∙þ
82
∙þ
35
∙þ
92
§¨¦
280
14.8
14.4
13.7
25
15.5
30.7
16.1
16.3
27.3
19.3
17.4
14.4
35.1
16.5
16.5
15.6
28
16
16.4
14.7
24.5
18.3
18.3
14.1
15.1
31.9
25.9
25
26.2
20.6
32
24
26.5
17.8
24.1
36
14.9
20.2
16
30.5
26.8
25.2
15.7
17.8
26.3
13.3
31.2
14.9
21.1
29.2
28.8
27.7
50.6
25.2
25.8
15.9
23.7
24.2
17.6
13.7
29.6
15.3
30.5
26.3
23.5
24.6
24.7
26.8
24.8
30.3
21.2
15.7
15.2
15.8
19
14.6
27.7
18.1
15
17.1
30.9
29
12.9
17.3
19.6
28.3
14.1
15.6
18.9
27.8
24.1
26.6
16.9
19.4
15.9
15
32.3
35.6
27.5
14.4
26.8
17.9
14.8
24.6
17.3
47.9
24.7
28.2
24.9
15.6
15.8
17.4
16
17.1
33.8
16.2
19.3
26.7
28.8
29.8
16.2
15.1
15.3
17.8
15.4
24.5
18.6
30.5
25.7
16.6
15.2
17.9
26.3
28.1
16.8
20.1
32.3
28
16.3
28.5
15.6
25.3
13.7
16.4
17.2
25.3
21.4
22.2
27.5
26.9
16.7
24.8
26.4
25
27.6
27.2
15.6
22.9
25.2
46.3
27.6
15.8
16
16.5
17.9
28.1
15.5
39.2
19
24.2
15.4
16.9
28.6
25.9
29.5
27.7
17.1
19.5
26.8
17.8
30.7
15.2
26
16.1
16
23.7
15.1
34.6
29
15.3
18.6
14.8
14.2
26.1
14.8
17.4
16.4
28.2
32
17.5
26.7
16.3
15.5
17.9
27.5
23.7
29.8
15.3
15
15.1
31.5
16
16.1
14.7
13.7
27.9
15.2
28.4
25.9
15.5
18.6
15.2
15.3
15.6
15.5
16.4
16.4
10.9
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
H:\24\24441 - City of San Mateo Transportation On-Call\GIS\TAZ Employees_Screening.mxd   Date: 6/12/2020
[
0
3,900 Feet
Average VMT/ Employee by TAZ
< 15.3 - Below Target VMT (County
Average - 15%)
15.3 - 18.0 - Target VMT (County Average-
15%) to County Average
> 18.0 - Above County Average
No Data
City Boundary
High Quality Transit Area
Priority Development Area
*Average VMT per Employee by TAZ for San Mateo County is 18.0
VMT Per Employee
Project Site

--- page 251 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 16 
 
 
IMPACT DISCUSSION 
Vehicle Miles Traveled  
The proposed project is in TAZ 2965 with VMT per Capita of 23.9. San Mateo County has a regional 
average of 15.5 VMT per Capita with an impact threshold of 13.1 VMT per Capita for residential uses. 
However, according to Section E Redevelopment Projects (Page 17) of the technical advisory of OPR, 
“When a project replaces existing VMT-generating land uses and the project leads to a net overall 
decrease in VMT, the project would lead to a less-than-significant transportation impact.” 
Since the proposed project is a redevelopment project, replacing the existing office uses totaling 
approximately 224,844 square feet with 290 new residential units, the total VMT for existing and 
proposed uses was calculated to see if there is a net decrease or increase in the overall VMT. The total 
VMT calculations are presented in in Table 1.  
Table 1: Total VMT Calculations for Existing and Proposed Uses 
Site Conditions 
  
Size (Characteristics) 
Number of 
Employees/Residents 
  
Existing VMT per 
Employee or VMT 
Per Capita for TAZ 
2965 
Total VMT 
Generated 
by the Site 
Existing Office Use 
224,844 (73.3% 
occupancy rate)1 
1,320 employees2 
19.5 
25,740 
Proposed Residential Use 
290 Units (906 
Bedrooms) 
906 residents3 
23.9 
21,655 
Net VMT Change (Proposed Residential Use – Existing Office Use) 
-4,085 
Source: Kittelson & Associates, 2020. 
Notes:  
1 Assumes an average occupancy rate of 73.3% over the most recent three-year period. Occupancy data provided by City 
staff via email, dated July 24, 2020.  
2 Assumes an average of 125 square feet per employee based on data obtained from Gensler Workplace Standards 
Benchmarking 
(March 
6, 
2012) 
for 
the 
technology, 
finance, 
and 
biotech 
and 
science 
fields. 
https://www.gsa.gov/cdnstatic/Workplace_Standards_Benchmark.pdf.  
3 Assumes one person per bedroom. 
 
As shown in Table 1, with the proposed project, there would be a net decrease in VMT at the project site. 
The proposed residential use would generate 4,085 fewer vehicle miles traveled on a daily basis than the 
existing office buildings.  
According to Section E Redevelopment Projects (Page 17) of the technical advisory of OPR, the proposed 
project would result in a less-than-significant impact with respect to VMT and no further analysis or 
mitigations are required.

--- page 252 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 17 
 
 
LOCAL TRANSPORTATION ANALYSIS 
SCOPE OF STUDY 
Time Periods 
Traffic conditions at the study intersections were analyzed for the weekday AM and PM peak hours of 
adjacent street traffic. The AM peak hour occurs between 7 AM and 9 AM, and the PM peak hour occurs 
between 4 PM and 6 PM on a regular weekday. It is during these peak commute periods that the traffic 
demand on the roadway system is the greatest.  
Transportation conditions were evaluated for the following scenarios:  
• 
Existing Conditions. Traffic volumes for the Existing Conditions were estimated using historical 
counts, as collecting turning movement volumes at the study intersections was not 
recommended due to COVID-194 conditions. The study intersections were evaluated with a level 
of service analysis using Synchro software in accordance with the 2010 Highway Capacity Manual 
methodology.  
• 
Baseline Conditions. Baseline traffic volumes were estimated by adding the projected volumes 
from approved, but not yet completed developments to existing peak hour volumes for the 
project completion year.  
• 
Baseline with Project Conditions. Baseline traffic volumes with the project were estimated by 
adding the additional traffic generated by the project to the baseline traffic volumes. Baseline 
with Project Conditions were evaluated relative to Baseline Conditions to determine the effects 
the proposed project would have on the baseline roadway network.  
• 
Cumulative Conditions. Cumulative Conditions are represented by future traffic volumes on the 
roadway network. This scenario was estimated by adding a regional growth to existing traffic 
volumes between the existing year (2020) and future year (2040).  
• 
Cumulative with Project Conditions. Cumulative traffic volumes with the project are estimated by 
adding cumulative traffic volumes to the additional traffic generated by the project. Cumulative 
with Project Conditions were evaluated relative to Cumulative Conditions to determine the 
effects the proposed project would have on the future roadway network.  
 
4 The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in shelter-in-place orders across the Bay Area and travel demand is significantly 
reduced across all modes. Travel patterns have also changed substantially. These changes are the result of multiple 
factors such as school closures, restrictions on business operations, and an increased amount of telecommuting.

--- page 253 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 18 
 
 
Study Intersections 
The following four study intersections were selected for analysis and are shown in Figure 5.  
1. Campus Drive at Hillsdale Boulevard 
2. SR-92 Westbound Ramps at Hillsdale Boulevard 
3. SR-92 Eastbound Ramps at Hillsdale Boulevard 
4. Alameda de Las Pulgas at Hillsdale Boulevard 
Intersection Level of Service (LOS) Criteria 
Level of service (LOS) describes the operating conditions experienced by motorists. LOS is a qualitative 
measure of the effect of a number of factors, including speed and travel time, traffic interruptions and 
delay, freedom to maneuver, driving comfort, and convenience. LOS A through LOS F covers the entire 
range of traffic operations that might occur. Motorists using a facility that operates at a LOS A experience 
very little delay, while those using a facility that operates at a LOS F will experience long delays. 
Intersection analyses for the four study intersections were conducted using the operational 
methodologies outlined in the 2010 Highway Capacity Manual (HCM) (Transportation Research Board, 
Washington, D.C., 2010), calculated with Synchro software. 
Signalized Intersections 
The HCM procedure calculates a weighted average control delay in seconds per vehicle at a signalized 
intersection and assigns a level of service designation based upon the delay. The City of San Mateo level 
of service standard is mid-LOS D (delay of 45 seconds) or better for all signalized study intersections. 
Unsignalized Intersections 
The HCM methodology calculates a weighted average control delay in seconds per vehicle for each 
controlled intersection leg and for the intersection. A level of service designation for all-way stop-
controlled intersections is based upon the weighted average control delay for all intersection legs, similar 
to the level of service designation for signalized intersections. For two-way stop-controlled intersections, 
the LOS for the worst approach is used as the LOS performance measure. The City of San Mateo does not 
have a LOS standard for unsignalized intersections as specified in the 2030 General Plan. While the City 
adopted Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Guidelines in August 2020 to include LOS standards for 
unsignalized intersections, those standards do not apply to this analysis because the developer submitted 
a Senate Bill 330 Application in February 2020 that freezes codes and policies in effect of its submitted 
date. Therefore, intersection levels of service for unsignalized intersections are reported for 
informational purposes only. 
Table 2 presents the relationship of average delay to level of service for both signalized and unsignalized 
intersections.

--- page 254 ---
© 2020 Mi
ft C
ti
© 2020 M
N
C:\Users\lwillman\appdata\local\temp\AcPublish_21048\24837-Figures.dwg      Sep 17, 2020 - 11:38am -  lwillman      Layout Tab: Study Intersections
Study Intersections
5
is
Figure
Campus Drive at Hillsdale Boulevard
2
3
1
4
1
Study Intersections:
SR-92 Westbound Ramps at Hillsdale Boulevard
2
SR-92 Eastbound Ramps at Hillsdale Boulevard
3
Alameda De Las Pulgas at Hillsdale Boulevard
4
Alameda De Las Pulgas
92
Campus Drive
Hillsdale Boulevard
Site
Site
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact

--- page 255 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 20 
 
 
Table 2: Level of Service Definition for Intersections 
Signalized Intersection 
  
LOS 
  
Description of Traffic Conditions 
Unsignalized Intersection 
Average Delay Per 
Vehicle (Seconds) 
Average Delay Per Vehicle 
(Seconds) 
 
A 
Free flowing. Most vehicles do not have to stop. 
 
>10.0 and 20.0 
B 
Minimal delays. Some vehicles have to stop, 
although waits are not bothersome. 
>10.0 and 15.0 
>20.0 and 35.0 
C 
Acceptable delays. Significant numbers of 
vehicles have to stop because of steady, high 
traffic volumes. Still, many pass without 
stopping. 
>15.0 and 25.0 
>35.0 and 55.0 
D 
Tolerable delays. Many vehicles have to stop. 
Drivers are aware of heavier traffic. Cars may 
have to wait through more than one red light. 
Queues begin to form, often on more than one 
approach. 
>25.0 and 35.0 
>55.0 and 80.0 
E 
Significant delays. Cars may have to wait 
through more than one red light. Long queues 
form, sometimes on several approaches. 
>35.0 and 50.0 
80.0 
F 
Excessive delays. Intersection is jammed. Many 
cars have to wait through more than one red 
light, or more than 60 seconds. Traffic may back 
up into “up-stream” intersections. 
>50.0 
Source: Transportation Research Board, 2010 Highway Capacity Manual (Washington D.C., 2010) 
General Plan LOS Policy Standard 
Per the City’s General Plan Policy C 2.7, all projects are required, at a minimum, to pay a transportation 
mitigation fee. The transportation mitigation fee is used to fund planned transportation improvements 
that are identified in the City of San Mateo Traffic Mitigation Program. The cost of the off-site 
improvements may be reimbursed by the City if a reimbursement program is established through the 
timeframe of the City of San Mateo’s current Traffic Mitigation Program or at the time when the 
improvement was initially scheduled. In addition to paying the transportation impact fee, a development 
project may be required to fund off-site circulation improvements which are needed as a result of project 
generated traffic if:  
Signalized Intersections 
a) The level of service at the intersection drops below mid-level LOS D (average delay of more than 
45 seconds) when the project traffic is added, and 
b) An intersection that operates below its level of service standard under the base year conditions 
experiences an increase in delay of four or more seconds, and

--- page 256 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 21 
 
 
c) The needed improvement of the intersection(s) is not funded in the applicable five-year City 
Capital Improvement Program from the date of application approval.  
Unsignalized Intersections 
As of February 2020, when the developer submitted its Senate Bill 330 application, the City of San Mateo 
did not have a LOS standard for unsignalized intersections as specified in the 2030 General Plan. 
Transportation studies typically evaluate whether unsignalized intersections are functioning adequately 
and whether signalization is warranted using the peak-hour volume signal warrant described in the 
California MUTCD.  
EXISTING CONDITIONS 
Roadway Network  
Regional access to the project site would be primarily provided by State Route 92 via W Hillsdale 
Boulevard and Campus Drive.    
State Route 92 is a four-to six lane state highway in California, serving as a major east-west corridor in 
the San Francisco Bay Area. It extends from State Route 1 in Half Moon Bay at the west end and San 
Mateo-Hayward Bridge to downtown Hayward in the East Bay at its junction with State Route 238. Access 
to and from the project study area is provided via interchanges at Hillsdale Boulevard.  
Hillsdale Boulevard is an arterial roadway that extends in an east-west direction from the San Mateo 
Community College and transitioning into Beach Park Boulevard. In the vicinity of the project site, 
Hillsdale Boulevard has four lanes, and provides access to the project site via Campus Drive and State 
Route 92.  
Campus Drive is a north-south local collector that extends from Hillsdale Boulevard to 26th Avenue. 
Collector streets are designed to channel traffic from local streets to arterials, and to handle short trips 
within the neighborhood areas. In the vicinity of the project site, Campus Drive has four lanes, and 
provides direct access to the project site via driveways. 
Alameda de Las Pulgas is a north-south, four-lane arterial roadway extending from the St. Bartholomew 
School at Crystal Springs Road on the north and transitioning into San Carlos Avenue. In the vicinity of 
the project site, Alameda de Las Pulgas has four lanes, and provides access to the project site via Hillsdale 
Boulevard and Campus Drive.  
Pedestrian Facilities and Amenities 
Pedestrian facilities consist of sidewalks, crosswalks, and pedestrian signals at signalized intersections. In 
the project vicinity, sidewalks exist along both sides of Campus Drive, Hillsdale Boulevard, and Alameda

--- page 257 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 22 
 
 
de Las Pulgas, providing pedestrian access to and from the project site. Marked crosswalks with 
pedestrian signal heads and push buttons are provided at Campus Drive/Hillsdale Boulevard intersection 
and marked crosswalks on all stop-controlled approaches are provided at Hillsdale Boulevard/Alameda 
de Las Pulgas intersection. The overall network of sidewalks and crosswalks in the study area has good 
connectivity and provides pedestrian with safe routes to maneuver.  
As mentioned in the TDM memo developed by Steer Group, per the Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan, the 
project site’s change of use from commercial to single and multi-family will obligate the developer to 
implement Pedestrian Design Guideline A.5 Residential Type C New Development, requiring a minimum 
overall sidewalk width of 9.5 feet with a recommended width of 12 feet.  
Bicycle Facilities and Amenities 
Bicycle facilities are defined by the following four classes5: 
▪ 
Class I (Multi-use Path) – Provides a completely separated facility designed for the exclusive use 
of bicyclists and pedestrians with crossing points minimized. 
▪ 
Class II (Bike Lane) – Provides a restricted right-of-way designated lane for the exclusive or semi-
exclusive use of bicycles with through travel by motor vehicles or pedestrians prohibited, but with 
vehicle parking and crossflows by pedestrians and motorists permitted. 
▪ 
Class III (Bike Route) – Provides a right-of-way designated by signs or permanent markings and 
shared with pedestrians and motorists. 
▪ 
Class IV (Separated Bike Lane) – Provides a restricted right-of-way designated lane for the 
exclusive use of bicyclists that is separated by a vertical element to provide further separation 
from motor vehicle traffic. 
The existing and proposed6 bicycle routes within the study area are described below. The existing bicycle 
network is shown in Figure 6.  
Alameda de Las Pulgas – This corridor has been identified by the public and local jurisdictions as a key 
bicycling corridor connecting Santa Clara County to San Mateo. It provides an inland alternative to the 
Bay Trail. Bike lanes (Class II) are striped on approximately half the length of the corridor (South of 
Belmont) while the remainder is a signed bicycle route (Class III). There is an existing Class III bike route 
on Alameda de Las Pulgas in the vicinity of the project. The 2020 Bicycle Master Plan proposes a Class II 
bike lane between 26th Avenue and Crystal Springs Road.  
 
5 As detailed in Chapter 1000 of the Highway Design Manual (Caltrans, 2015). 
6 As proposed in City of San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan, 2020. https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3944/Bicycle-Master-
Plan-2020.

--- page 258 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 23 
 
 
Hillsdale Boulevard – There is an existing Class II bike lane on Hillsdale Boulevard extending from 
Alameda de Las Pulgas to Laurel Creek Drive, in the vicinity of the project site. The Bicycle Master Plan 
proposes extending the existing Class II bike lane from Laurel Creek Drive to 31st Avenue and installing a 
Class IV separated bike lane from 31st Avenue to San Mateo Community College.  
Campus Drive/26th Avenue – There is an existing Class III bike route on Campus Drive extending from 
Hillsdale Boulevard to 26th Avenue, providing access to the project site. The Bicycle Master Plan proposes 
upgrading the existing Class III bike route to a Class II bike lane on Campus Drive to 26th Avenue and 
designating a Class III facility on 26th Avenue between Campus Drive and Hacienda Street. 
Transit Service 
The existing transit service to the study area is provided by the San Mateo County Transit District 
(SamTrans), Norfolk Caltrain Shuttle, and Caltrain. The project site has five bus routes (Route 250, 251, 
256, 294 and 295) nearby, operated by SamTrans with the nearest bus stops located at the intersection 
of Alameda de Las Pulgas and Hillsdale Boulevard and in the study area vicinity. Two bus routes (school-
day only) Route 57 and 58 operate in the vicinity of the project site. Caltrain commuter shuttles are 
available at the Hillsdale Caltrain Station and they have stops in the vicinity of project site at Glendora 
Drive/Hillsdale Boulevard, 31st Avenue/Hillsdale Boulevard, Del Monte Street/ Hillsdale Boulevard, and 
Alameda de Las Pulgas/Hillsdale Boulevard, Laurelwood Shopping Center stop on Campus Drive, 
Peninsula Office Park, and Campus Drive/26th Avenue intersections. The shuttle service operates during 
commute hours between transit stations and major employment areas, i.e. various area office buildings. 
The bus routes that provide the peak-hour services near the project site are described in Table 3 and are 
shown in Figure 7. 
Caltrain Service 
Commuter rail service between San Francisco and Gilroy is provided by Caltrain. The project site is located 
about 2.7 miles west of the Hillsdale Caltrain Station7, which is about a 11-minute car ride, and 12-minute 
bike ride. Caltrain provides service at this station with approximately 15-minute frequency during the 
weekday AM and PM commute hours, midday, and at nights. Service is provided with approximately 90-
minute headways on weekends.  
 
7 The Hillsdale Caltrain Station is temporarily closed for construction as part of the 25th Avenue Grade Separation 
project. Upon completion of construction, the Hillsdale Caltrain Station will be relocated about one block north of its 
current location, between 28th Avenue and 31st Avenue. More information about the relocation and construction 
timeline can be found on the Caltrain website, here: 
https://www.caltrain.com/projectsplans/Projects/Caltrain_Capital_Program/25th_Avenue_Grade_Separation/Hillsdale
Closure.html. Website accessed October 8, 2020.

--- page 259 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 24 
 
 
Emergency Vehicle Access 
The developer proposes to maintain the existing emergency vehicle access (EVA) road connecting 
Campus Drive to 26th Avenue as an EVA.  The nearest fire station is located approximately 2 miles from 
the project site at 320 Paul Scannell Drive.  
Table 3: Existing Bus Service 
Bus 
Route 
Description 
Operating Hours 
Peak-
Hour 
Headway 
Closest Bus Stop 
57 
Hillsdale High School – 
Edgewater/Beach Park 
(School-day only) 
6:30 AM – 8:30 AM (and) 
3:30 PM – 4:30 PM 
NA 
31st Avenue and Fernwood 
Street 
58 
Borel School – 
Polhemus/Paul Scannell 
(School-day only) 
7:00 AM – 8:00 AM (and) 
1:00 PM – 3:30 PM 
NA 
Clearview Way/W Hillsdale 
Boulevard 
250 
5th/El Camino Real – College 
of San Mateo 
6 AM – 11 PM 
1 hour 
Clearview Way/W Hillsdale 
Boulevard 
251 
Foster City – Hillsdale Mall 
8:30 AM – 7 PM 
2 hours 
Alameda de Las Pulgas/W 
Hillsdale Boulevard (or)  
31st Avenue and Fernwood 
Street 
256 
Hillsdale Mall – Foster City 
6:30 AM – 8 PM 
1 – 4 
hours 
Alameda de Las Pulgas/W 
Hillsdale Boulevard (or)  
31st Avenue and Fernwood 
Street 
294 
San Mateo Medical Center 
– Hillsdale – CSM – Half 
Moon Bay 
6 AM – 10 PM 
1 hour 
Clearview Way/W Hillsdale 
Boulevard 
295 
San Mateo Caltrain – 
Redwood City Transit 
Center 
6 AM – 7 PM 
2 hours 
Alameda de Las Pulgas/26th 
Avenue 
Norfolk 
Shuttle 
Between Hillsdale Caltrain 
Station and Various Office 
Area Buildings 
7 AM – 9:30 AM and 
3 PM – 7 PM 
30 – 45 
min 
Various stops on Hillsdale 
Boulevard and Campus Drive 
Source: SamTrans, 2020.

--- page 260 ---
© 2020 Mi
ft C
ti
© 2020 M
C:\Users\lwillman\appdata\local\temp\AcPublish_21048\24837-Figures.dwg      Sep 17, 2020 - 11:32am -  lwillman      Layout Tab: Bike Network NEW
Existing Bicycle Network
6
nalysis
Figure
Alameda De Las Pulgas
92
Campus Drive
Hillsdale Boulevard
Site
Site
Laurelwood Drive
De Anza Boulevard
Hacienda Street
36th Avenue
Legend:
Shared Use Path
Bike Lane
Bike Route
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact

--- page 261 ---
© 2020 Mi
ft C
ti
© 2020 M
H:\24\24837 - San Mateo On-Call TIAs\001 - San Mateo Peninsula Heights EIR\report\figs\24837-Figures.dwg      Nov 05, 2020 - 2:49pm -  lwillman      Layout Tab: Existing Transit Services
Existing Transit Services
7
Peninsula Heights Traffic Impact Analysis
Figure
Alameda De Las Pulgas
92
Campus Drive
Hillsdale Boulevard
Site
Site
Hacienda Street
Legend:
Route 294
El Camino Real
31st Avenue
Parrott Drive
Route 251
Route 295
Route 250
Route 256
Route 57 (School Days)
Route 58 (School Days)

--- page 262 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 27 
 
 
Traffic Volumes 
Multimodal turning movement counts were estimated at the four study intersections shown in Figure 5 
for the weekday AM and weekday PM peak periods. The hour with the highest vehicle volumes from the 
peak periods was determined for use in the transportation analysis.  
The estimated multimodal turning movement counts are presented in Appendix A. The existing 
intersection geometries and estimated existing volumes (due to COVID-19 conditions) are shown in 
Figure 8 and Figure 9.  
Intersection Level of Service 
The estimated traffic volumes due to COVID-19 conditions, lane configurations, and traffic controls for 
each study intersection were used to assess the Existing Conditions LOS and delay. Table 4 shows the 
findings of this analysis for the AM and PM peak hours. Detailed calculation worksheets for the Existing 
Conditions are provided in Appendix B. These delay and LOS values can be compared to the City of San 
Mateo thresholds outlined in the Circulation Element of the 2030 General Plan, discussed in the previous 
section. 
Table 4: Existing Conditions Intersection Operations Results 
No 
Location 
Control 
Existing AM 
Existing PM 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
1 
Campus Drive & Hillsdale Boulevard 
Signal 
11.4 
B 
9.3 
A 
2 
SR-92 Westbound Ramps & Hillsdale Boulevard 
Signal 
10.9 
B 
15.5 
B 
3 
SR-92 Eastbound Ramps & Hillsdale Boulevard 
Signal 
27.6 
C 
15.8 
B 
4 
Alameda de Las Pulgas & Hillsdale Boulevard 
AWSC 
95.3 
F 
86.4 
F 
Notes: AWSC = All-Way Stop Control; AM = weekday a.m. peak hour; PM = weekday p.m. peak hour; LOS = Level of Service; Delay reported in 
seconds per vehicle; No = intersection number. 
Source: Highway Capacity Manual 2010; Kittelson & Associates, 2020 
 
As mentioned in the previous section, intersection analyses for the four study intersections were 
conducted using the operational methodologies outlined in the 2010 Highway Capacity Manual (HCM), 
calculated with Synchro software. However, Synchro’s adaptation of HCM 2010 does not account for 
vehicles turning right on red (i.e., right-turn-on-red) at the SR-92 Eastbound Ramps/Hillsdale Boulevard 
intersection. Kittelson updated the Synchro network to more accurately reflect existing intersection 
operations and account for right-turn-on-red operations by modifying the growth rate input parameter 
for the respective turning movements in Synchro. 
As shown in Table 4, the three signalized intersections currently operate at LOS C or better during both 
peak hours and the all-way stop-controlled intersection at Alameda de Las Pulgas and Hillsdale Boulevard, 
currently operates at LOS F during both peak hours.

--- page 263 ---
N
H:\24\24837 - San Mateo On-Call TIAs\001 - San Mateo Peninsula Heights EIR\report\figs\24837-Figures.dwg      Oct 07, 2020 - 10:56am -  lwillman      Layout Tab: TCD & ELC
Existing Conditions
Traffic Control and
Lane Configurations
8
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis
Figure
1
2
3
4
1
2
3
4
92
Campus Drive
Site
Alameda de Las Pulgas
Hillsdale Boulevard
Site
- Stop Sign
- Traffic Signal
Campus Drive at
Hillsdale Boulevard
SR-92 Westbound Ramps at
Hillsdale Boulevard
SR-92 Eastbound Ramps at
Hillsdale Boulevard
Alameda de Las Pulgas at
Hillsdale Boulevard

--- page 264 ---
1
2
3
4
92
Campus Drive
Site
Alameda de Las Pulgas
Hillsdale Boulevard
Site
N
H:\24\24837 - San Mateo On-Call TIAs\001 - San Mateo Peninsula Heights EIR\report\figs\24837-Figures.dwg      Oct 07, 2020 - 11:21am -  lwillman      Layout Tab: EX TMV
Existing Conditions Peak Hour
Turning Movement Volumes
9
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis
Figure
1
2
3
4
Campus Drive at
Hillsdale Boulevard
SR-92 Westbound Ramps at
Hillsdale Boulevard
SR-92 Eastbound Ramps at
Hillsdale Boulevard
Alameda de Las Pulgas at
Hillsdale Boulevard
AM Peak
PM Peak
23
148
596
827
346
51
106
446
967
585
203
54
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
347
780
348
175
608
951
326
317
508
354
675
496
463
231
750
761
549
251
519
356
907
386
108
359
36
234
114
96
177
63
72
116
457
137
140
405
41
305
125
110
189
35
64
129
369
80
220
424

--- page 265 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 30 
 
 
BASELINE CONDITIONS 
This section presents baseline traffic conditions, which are defined as conditions just prior to the 
completion of the proposed project. Traffic volumes for the Baseline Conditions comprise volumes from 
existing traffic counts and traffic generated by other approved developments in the vicinity of the project 
site.  
Transportation Network  
The Baseline Conditions analysis assumes the reconfiguration of Campus Drive from a four-lane roadway 
to a three-lane roadway with Class II bike lanes on both sides. The assumed traffic control devices and 
lane configurations under Baseline Conditions are shown in Figure 10. 
Intersection Level of Service 
Traffic volumes for the Baseline Conditions are the same as the existing estimated traffic volumes, shown 
in Figure 9. This is because there are no projects that are underway in the vicinity of the study area that 
would add to the existing estimated volumes. Table 5 shows the Baseline intersection operations for the 
AM and PM peak hours, respectively. Detailed calculation worksheets for the Baseline Conditions are 
provided in Appendix C.  
Table 5: Baseline Conditions Intersection Operations Results 
No 
Location 
Control 
Baseline AM 
Baseline PM 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
1 
Campus Drive & Hillsdale Boulevard 
Signal 
11.5 
B 
11.8 
B 
2 
SR-92 Westbound Ramps & Hillsdale Boulevard 
Signal 
10.9 
B 
15.5 
B 
3 
SR-92 Eastbound Ramps & Hillsdale Boulevard 
Signal 
27.6 
C 
15.7 
B 
4 
Alameda de Las Pulgas & Hillsdale Boulevard 
AWSC 
95.3 
F 
86.4 
F 
Note:  
AWSC = All-Way Stop Control; ; AM = weekday a.m. peak hour; PM = weekday p.m. peak hour; LOS = Level of Service; Delay reported in seconds per 
vehicle 
Source: Highway Capacity Manual 2010; Kittelson & Associates, 2020 
As shown in Table 5 under Baseline Conditions, the three signalized intersections would continue to 
operate at LOS C or better during both peak hours, and the all-way stop-controlled intersection at 
Alameda de Las Pulgas and Hillsdale Boulevard would continue to operate at LOS F during both peak 
hours.

--- page 266 ---
1
2
3
4
92
Campus Drive
Site
Alameda de Las Pulgas
Hillsdale Boulevard
Site
N
H:\24\24837 - San Mateo On-Call TIAs\001 - San Mateo Peninsula Heights EIR\report\figs\24837-Figures.dwg      Oct 07, 2020 - 11:26am -  lwillman      Layout Tab: BL TCD & ELC
Baseline Conditions
Traffic Control and
Lane Configurations
10
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis
Figure
1
2
3
4
- Stop Sign
- Traffic Signal
Campus Drive at
Hillsdale Boulevard
SR-92 Westbound Ramps at
Hillsdale Boulevard
SR-92 Eastbound Ramps at
Hillsdale Boulevard
Alameda de Las Pulgas at
Hillsdale Boulevard

--- page 267 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 32 
 
 
PROJECT TRAVEL DEMAND 
Trip Generation 
Trip generation of the project is based on information compiled in the 10th Edition of the Institute of 
Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation manual8. The trips generated by the existing general office 
buildings (ITE code 710) were compared to the proposed residential units (ITE code 210 for single-family 
detached housing and ITE code 221 for mid-rise multifamily housing). 
The owner of the four office buildings recorded the following occupancy data for the past two and a half 
years: 2018 – 82.2%, 2019 – 72.9%, and 2020 – 64.8%.9 The average occupancy rate of 73.3% was applied 
to the trip estimates for the general office building land use, as to provide a quantitative approximation 
of how many trips the existing site is creating. No adjustments to the standard trip generation rates were 
made to account for internalization, pass-by trips, or diverted trips, as the proposed residential 
development does not provide the mix of uses that would typically result in these types of trips.  
As summarized in Table 6, the proposed project is estimated to generate 58 fewer vehicle trips (-130 
inbound, 72 outbound) during the weekday AM peak hour and 22 fewer vehicle trips (73 inbound, -95 
outbound) during the weekday PM peak hour compared to the existing office campus. Accounting for the 
difference between the proposed project trips and the existing occupancy of the office buildings, the 
proposed project would not meet the minimum threshold of 100 new peak hour vehicle trips for a 
congestion management program (CMP) analysis per C/CAG CMP guidelines.    
 
8 Institute of Transportation Engineers. Trip Generation, 9th Edition, Washington, D.C. 2012 
9 Occupancy data provided by City staff via email, dated July 24, 2020.

--- page 268 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 33 
 
 
Table 6: Project Trip Generation 
Land Use 
ITE 
Code 
Size 
Unit1 
Daily  
Weekday AM Peak Hour 
Weekday PM Peak Hour 
In 
Out 
Total 
In 
Out 
Total 
Existing 
General Office 
Building 
710 
225 
KSF 
2,192 
224 
37 
261 
42 
217 
259 
73.3% Occupancy Adjustment 
Adjusted Total2 
1,606 
164 
27 
191 
31 
159 
190 
Proposed 
Single Family 
Detached Housing 
210 
74 
DU 
699 
14 
41 
55 
46 
27 
73 
Multifamily House 
(Low-Rise) 
221 
216 
DU 
1,175 
20 
58 
78 
58 
37 
95 
Total 
1,874 
34 
99 
133 
104 
64 
168 
Net New Project Vehicle Trips 
268 
-130 
72 
-58 
73 
-95 
-22 
Notes:  
1 KSF = Thousand Square Feet. DU = Dwelling Unit. 
2 An average occupancy rate of 73.3% was applied to the estimated ITE vehicle trips to reflect the existing occupancy of the office buildings. 
Trip Distribution and Assignment 
The distribution of project trips was derived from existing travel volume data and from knowledge of 
local travel times. The recorded north/south distribution of traffic along State Route 92 was used to 
inform the direction that project traffic would be going to or coming from in order to access the project 
site. Access to State Route 92 from the project was assumed to be via the Campus Drive, Hillsdale 
Boulevard and the State Route 92 ramp terminal intersections.  
BASELINE WITH PROJECT CONDITIONS 
Site Access and On-Site Circulation  
This section describes the site access and circulation of the proposed project based on a review of the 
proposed site plan.  
Vehicle Access and Circulation 
On-Site Circulation and Driveway Access 
The proposed residential use would replace the existing four office buildings on-site. The project 
proposes to construct an inverted “L”-shaped roadway on-site that runs in a north-south direction from 
Campus Drive for both northern and southern parcels. This roadway would provide access to the parking 
garage entrances. Access to the buildings and the parking garages would be provided by two two-way 
driveways on the north side and two two-way driveways on the south side, on Campus Drive. All 
driveways are proposed to be 24 to 26 feet wide.

--- page 269 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 34 
 
 
The project driveways need to be designed to preserve the sight triangles10 free of visual obstructions. 
The proposed site plan shows driveway sight triangles start at the sidewalk and measure 10 feet on the 
side, established as per the City of San Mateo Municipal Code (Section 27.84.010 (B)(2)), and intersection 
sight triangles start at the sidewalk and measure 45 feet in length, established as per the City of San 
Mateo Municipal Code (Section 27.84.010 (B)(1)).  
Sight distance is the continuous length of the roadway ahead, visible to the roadway user. According to 
the Caltrans Highway Design Manual, the minimum standards for stopping sight distance are related to 
the design speed for motorists (Table 201.1 Sight Distance Standards)11. Stopping sight distance12 for 
motorists is measured from the drivers’ eyes, which are assumed to be 3½ feet above the pavement 
surface, to an object ½ foot high on the road. The driveways from the project site lead to Campus Drive, 
which has a posted speed limit of 25 mph (i.e. design speed of 30 mph), the Caltrans stopping sight 
distance requirement is 200 feet.  
There is no on-street parking or severe roadway curves along Campus Drive, hence the project driveways 
would all have adequate sight distance. The landscaping near the project driveways currently do not 
impair sight distance for the driver and should be taken care of in such a way that it does not interfere 
with drivers’ view in future conditions as well. The project proposes a tree removal and mitigation plan 
at the project site to minimize the potential for landscaping to obscure the roadway visibility.    
Vehicle Parking 
The proposed project would include 624 on-site vehicle parking spaces, including 580 residential parking 
spaces in attached two-car garages and 44 surface parking spaces for visitors distributed across the 
northern and southern parcels. The proposed project would include 23 accessible units distributed across 
the northern and southern parcels. There is a total of nine accessible parking stalls (of which five are 
Electric Vehicle accessible parking stalls) and five Electric Vehicle parking stalls in the proposed project 
site. All parking aisle and parking stall dimensions are shown to comply with the minimum requirements 
of the City “Standard Drawings and Specifications”. All parking spaces appear to have sufficient space 
near the end of dead-end aisles for vehicles to turn around.  
 
10 Sight triangles identify areas at the corners of intersections of roads and driveways where views of approaching traffic 
should not be obstructed. 
11 Chapter 200 – Geometric Design and Structure Standards, Caltrans Highway Design Manual, July 2020. 
12 The minimum stopping sight distance as defined by the Highway Design Manual is “the distance required by the user, 
traveling at a given speed, to bring the vehicle or bicycle to a stop after an object ½ foot high on the road becomes 
visible”.

--- page 270 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 35 
 
 
Passenger Loading 
The project proposes passenger loading zones near the project site, which would serve as a waiting area 
for the residents. Four residential loading zones are shown in the proposed project site plan, which are 
established as per the City of San Mateo Municipal Code (Section 27.64.320).  
Pedestrians 
Pedestrian pathways would link the proposed development to the surrounding neighborhood. 
Approximately 2.2 acres of the site is dedicated to open space with 1.2 miles of paths and trails. Two 
pedestrian pathways (i.e. loops) are proposed within the northern parcel and one pedestrian pathway is 
proposed within the southern parcel to provide circulation and access to the proposed activity and fitness 
centers on site. Wayfinding signage would be provided to direct people to the on-site amenities. Overall, 
the proposed project would promote accessibility for people walking to and through the site by 
connecting new pathways to the existing sidewalk networks. The project would not generate activities 
that would interfere with access or circulation for people walking. 
Bicyclists 
The project would provide short term bike racks (class II) and secure long-term bicycle parking (class I). 
The North Site would provide 16 short-term and 208 long-term parking spaces, and the South Site would 
provide 17 short-term and 224 long-term parking spaces. Bicyclists would access the site from the Class 
II bike lanes on Campus Drive. Overall, the proposed project would promote accessibility for people biking 
to and through the site by providing bicycle parking and connecting to the existing bicycle networks. The 
project would not generate activities that would interfere with access or circulation for people biking. 
Transit 
Five bus routes (Route 250, 251, 256, 294 and 295) operated by SamTrans provide service to/from the 
project site from the bus stops located at the intersection of Alameda de Las Pulgas and Hillsdale 
Boulevard and in the study area vicinity. Two bus routes (school-day only)-Route 57 and 58 operate in 
the vicinity of the project site. Caltrain commuter shuttles are available at the Hillsdale Caltrain Station 
with stops in the vicinity of project site at Laurelwood Shopping Center stop on Campus Drive, Peninsula 
Office Park, and Campus Drive/26th Avenue intersections.  
Emergency Vehicle and Fire Truck Access 
The project proposes to maintain and improve the existing Emergency Vehicle Access road east of the 
roundabout on the south end of the project site, connecting Campus Drive to 26th Avenue. The proposed 
site plan designates 20 to 26 feet unobstructed fire lane width and no less than 13.5 feet unobstructed 
height for aerial apparatus access. All curbs within the project site will be painted red and marked with 
white curb lettering “No Parking Fire Lane” at no less than 25 feet intervals. The proposed internal streets 
would provide sufficient clear width to accommodate emergency vehicles and meet fire department

--- page 271 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 36 
 
 
requirements. The proposed site plan also indicates that all fire hydrants in the vicinity of the project site 
shall be upgraded to Clow Model 960 or approved equivalent. Onsite hydrant spacing shall be 250 feet 
measured along access road. Although there would be a general increase in vehicle traffic from the 
proposed project, the proposed project would not inhibit emergency vehicle or fire truck access to or 
from the project site. Overall, fire truck access and circulation would meet San Mateo fire department 
requirements and development of the project site and associated increase in vehicles, pedestrians, and 
bicycle travel would not have a substantial adverse effect on emergency vehicle access to other buildings 
or land uses in the area or to hospitals. 
Garbage Trucks 
The project site plan shows three trash compactor rooms located at the southeast, south and western 
edges of the north project site, and two trash compactors located at the mid-south and southern edges 
of the south project site. Garbage trucks would enter and exit the project site via Campus Drive to access 
the proposed trash compactor rooms. Overall, garbage truck access and circulation would be adequate. 
Intersection Level of Service 
Traffic volumes for the Baseline with Project Conditions were developed by combining the existing 
estimated traffic volumes with the project only volumes. The resulting Baseline with Project turning 
movement volumes are shown in Figure 11. Table 7 shows the Baseline with Project intersection 
operations for the AM and PM peak hours, respectively. Detailed calculation worksheets for the Baseline 
with Project Conditions are provided in Appendix D.

--- page 272 ---
1
2
3
4
92
Campus Drive
Site
Alameda de Las Pulgas
Hillsdale Boulevard
Site
N
H:\24\24837 - San Mateo On-Call TIAs\001 - San Mateo Peninsula Heights EIR\report\figs\24837-Figures.dwg      Oct 07, 2020 - 11:35am -  lwillman      Layout Tab: BL TMV
Baseline with Project Conditions
Peak Hour Turning Movement Volumes
11
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis
Figure
1
2
3
4
Campus Drive at
Hillsdale Boulevard
SR-92 Westbound Ramps at
Hillsdale Boulevard
SR-92 Eastbound Ramps at
Hillsdale Boulevard
Alameda de Las Pulgas at
Hillsdale Boulevard
AM Peak
PM Peak
37
206
596
827
242
25
87
370
967
585
261
69
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
321
780
322
175
630
965
341
317
523
354
646
477
411
231
786
761
476
273
548
356
859
357
108
359
29
242
117
96
164
66
72
110
457
137
140
405
44
295
121
110
195
31
64
135
369
80
220
484

--- page 273 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 38 
 
 
Table 7: Baseline with Project Conditions Intersection Operations Results 
No 
Location 
Scenario 
Weekday AM 
Peak Hour 
Weekday PM 
Peak Hour 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
1 
Campus Drive & Hillsdale Boulevard 
No Project 
11.5 
B 
11.8 
B 
Plus Project 
12.6 
B 
11.1 
B 
2 
SR-92 Westbound Ramps & Hillsdale Boulevard 
No Project 
10.9 
B 
15.5 
B 
Plus Project 
10.7 
B 
15.0 
B 
3 
SR-92 Eastbound Ramps & Hillsdale Boulevard 
No Project 
27.6 
C 
15.7 
B 
Plus Project 
28.1 
C 
20.9 
C 
4 
Alameda de Las Pulgas & Hillsdale Boulevard1 
No Project 
95.3 
F 
86.4 
F 
Plus Project 
95.9 
F 
80.9 
F 
Note: No = intersection number; 
LOS = Level of Service; Delay reported in seconds per vehicle 
1 This intersection is an All-Way Stop Controlled intersection 
Source: Highway Capacity Manual 2010; Kittelson & Associates, 2020 
 
As shown in Table 7, under Baseline with Project Conditions, the three signalized intersections would 
continue to operate at LOS C or better during the AM and PM peak hours, and the all-way stop-controlled 
intersection at Alameda de Las Pulgas and Hillsdale Boulevard would continue to operate at LOS F during 
the both peak hours.  The proposed project would not cause any intersection to exceed level of service 
standard and no intersection modifications would be required.   
CUMULATIVE CONDITIONS  
This section presents the anticipated Cumulative Conditions for the study intersections for the year 2040 
and the effect the addition of the project trips would have on them. 
Land Use Development and Transportation Network Changes 
The C/CAG San Mateo County Travel Demand Model was used to develop the future volume forecast for 
Cumulative Conditions. The model includes future development throughout the region. The 2040 
cumulative forecasts are consistent with regional growth totals projected by the Association of Bay Area 
Governments (ABAG) Plan Bay Area13. Therefore, the traffic forecasts reflect traffic reflecting both growth 
in Peninsula Heights and increases in traffic volumes on State Route 92 due to regional growth. Base year 
(Year 2020) and future year (Year 2040) forecasts were extracted from the model and linearly 
interpolated to develop growth between the estimated existing traffic counts (2020) and the current 
model horizon year (2040).  
 
13 https://mtc.ca.gov/our-work/plans-projects/plan-bay-area-2040

--- page 274 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 39 
 
 
The intersection lane configurations under Cumulative Conditions were assumed to be the same as 
described under the Baseline Conditions. Additionally, Cumulative Conditions analysis assumed the 
intersection of Alameda de Las Pulgas and Hillside Boulevard will be converted from a stop-controlled 
intersection to a signalized intersection. The assumed traffic control devices and lane configurations 
under Cumulative Conditions for all study intersections are shown in Figure 12. 
Intersection Level of Service 
The projected turning movement volumes for each peak hour under Cumulative Conditions are provided 
in Figure 13. Based on these volumes and lane configurations, the cumulative operations at the study 
intersections are shown in Table 8. Detailed calculation worksheets for the Cumulative Conditions are 
provided in Appendix E. 
Table 8: Cumulative Conditions Intersection Operations Results 
No 
Location 
Control 
Cumulative AM 
Cumulative PM 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
1 
Campus Drive & Hillsdale Boulevard 
Signal 
13.3 
B 
14.3 
B 
2 
SR-92 Westbound Ramps & Hillsdale Boulevard 
Signal 
13.2 
B 
60.9 
E 
3 
SR-92 Eastbound Ramps & Hillsdale Boulevard 
Signal 
36.8 
D 
32.7 
C 
4 
Alameda de Las Pulgas & Hillsdale Boulevard 
Signal 
17.6 
B 
18.2 
B 
Note: Red bold lettering indicates an intersection that does not meet the City’s minimum acceptable design level of service (LOS D for Signalized 
intersections); No = intersection number; LOS = Level of Service; Delay reported in seconds per vehicle.  
Source: Highway Capacity Manual 2010; Kittelson & Associates, 2020 
 
As shown in Table 8, under Cumulative Conditions, all study intersections would be signalized. Conversion 
of Alameda de Las Pulgas and Hillsdale Boulevard to a signalized intersection would reduce delay and 
improve operations at this location from LOS F under Existing and Baseline Conditions to LOS B under 
Cumulative Conditions. Three of the study intersections would operate at LOS D or better, and one study 
intersection, SR-92 Westbound Ramps and Hillsdale Boulevard, would operate at LOS E during the PM 
peak hour.  
CUMULATIVE WITH PROJECT CONDITIONS 
This section discusses the effect of proposed project on traffic operations under Cumulative Conditions. 
Traffic volumes for the Cumulative with Project Conditions were developed using the same additive 
approach used for the Baseline with Project volumes. The turning movement volumes resulting from 
adding the project trips to the Cumulative Conditions volumes are shown in Figure 14.  
Intersection Level of Service 
Based on these volumes and lane configurations, the Cumulative with Project operations at the study 
intersections are shown in Table 9. Detailed calculation worksheets for the Cumulative with Project 
Conditions are provided in Appendix F. Based on the significance criteria previously described, the 
proposed project would not cause significant impact at any of the study intersections.

--- page 275 ---
1
2
3
4
92
Campus Drive
Site
Alameda de Las Pulgas
Hillsdale Boulevard
Site
N
H:\24\24837 - San Mateo On-Call TIAs\001 - San Mateo Peninsula Heights EIR\report\figs\24837-Figures.dwg      Oct 07, 2020 - 11:41am -  lwillman      Layout Tab: CU TCD & ELC
Cumulative Conditions
Traffic Control and
Lane Configurations
12
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis
Figure
1
2
3
4
- Traffic Signal
Campus Drive at
Hillsdale Boulevard
SR-92 Westbound Ramps at
Hillsdale Boulevard
SR-92 Eastbound Ramps at
Hillsdale Boulevard
Alameda de Las Pulgas at
Hillsdale Boulevard

--- page 276 ---
1
2
3
4
92
Campus Drive
Site
Alameda de Las Pulgas
Hillsdale Boulevard
Site
N
H:\24\24837 - San Mateo On-Call TIAs\001 - San Mateo Peninsula Heights EIR\report\figs\24837-Figures.dwg      Oct 07, 2020 - 2:27pm -  lwillman      Layout Tab: CU TMV
Cumulative Conditions Peak Hour
Turning Movement Volumes
13
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis
Figure
1
2
3
4
Campus Drive at
Hillsdale Boulevard
SR-92 Westbound Ramps at
Hillsdale Boulevard
SR-92 Eastbound Ramps at
Hillsdale Boulevard
Alameda de Las Pulgas at
Hillsdale Boulevard
AM Peak
PM Peak
25
152
828
975
360
51
106
458
1,194
844
225
64
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
426
780
422
175
669
1,070
394
317
697
428
935
548
570
231
809
884
729
347
783
356
1,156
414
108
579
37
239
250
142
177
95
74
192
660
165
159
778
90
305
239
113
198
70
69
215
640
80
276
528

--- page 277 ---
1
2
3
4
92
Campus Drive
Site
Alameda de Las Pulgas
Hillsdale Boulevard
Site
N
H:\24\24837 - San Mateo On-Call TIAs\001 - San Mateo Peninsula Heights EIR\report\figs\24837-Figures.dwg      Oct 07, 2020 - 2:34pm -  lwillman      Layout Tab: CU+P TMV
Cumulative with Project Conditions
Peak Hour Turning Movement Volumes
14
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis
Figure
1
2
3
4
Campus Drive at
Hillsdale Boulevard
SR-92 Westbound Ramps at
Hillsdale Boulevard
SR-92 Eastbound Ramps at
Hillsdale Boulevard
Alameda de Las Pulgas at
Hillsdale Boulevard
AM Peak
PM Peak
39
210
828
975
256
25
87
382
1,194
844
283
79
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
400
780
396
175
691
1,084
409
317
712
428
906
529
518
231
845
884
659
369
812
356
1,109
385
108
579
30
247
253
142
164
98
74
185
660
165
159
778
93
295
235
113
204
66
69
221
640
80
276
572

--- page 278 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 43 
 
 
Table 9: Cumulative with Project Conditions Intersection Operations Results 
No 
Location 
Scenario 
Weekday AM 
Peak Hour 
Weekday PM 
Peak Hour 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
1 
Campus Drive & Hillsdale Boulevard 
No Project 
13.3 
B 
14.3 
B 
Plus Project 
12.9 
B 
13.7 
B 
2 
SR-92 Westbound Ramps & Hillsdale Boulevard 
No Project 
13.2 
B 
60.9 
E 
Plus Project 
13.3 
B 
57.9 
E 
3 
SR-92 Eastbound Ramps & Hillsdale Boulevard 
No Project 
36.8 
D 
32.7 
C 
Plus Project 
37.5 
D 
38.8 
D 
4 
Alameda de Las Pulgas & Hillsdale Boulevard 
No Project 
17.6 
B 
18.2 
B 
Plus Project 
17.8 
B 
18.1 
B 
Note: Red bold lettering indicates an intersection that does not meet the City’s minimum acceptable design level of service (LOS D for Signalized 
intersections); All intersections are signalized; No = intersection number; Delay presented ins seconds per vehicle; LOS = level of service. 
Source: Highway Capacity Manual 2010; Kittelson & Associates, 2020 
 
As shown in Table 9, three study intersections that would operate at LOS D or better under Cumulative 
Conditions would continue to operate at LOS D or better under Cumulative with Project Conditions. The 
SR-92 Westbound Ramps and Hillsdale Boulevard intersection would operate at LOS E under Cumulative 
Conditions during the PM peak hour and would continue to operate at LOS E during the PM peak hour 
under Cumulative with Project Conditions. The proposed project would not cause any of the study 
intersections to exceed the level of service standard, and no intersection modifications would be 
required.  
95TH PERCENTILE QUEUE ANALYSIS 
In addition to the operations analysis, Kittelson also reviewed the changes in 95th percentile queue 
lengths for the study intersections. Queue lengths are typically evaluated as part of the network-level or 
design-related considerations (i.e., to gauge interaction between nearby intersections). The 95th 
percentile queue lengths are reported to provide an appropriate storage for all but the worst 5% of traffic 
scenarios. This report is providing queue lengths at the request of the City. Since there are no impact 
criteria available to evaluate queue length, this information is presented for informational purposes only.  
The queue lengths presented are derived from outputs from Synchro traffic analysis software and are 
representative of the 95th percentile traffic volumes14.  
Table 10 displays the existing storage lengths for each approach at the study intersections. Table 11 
through Table 13 show the 95th percentile queue lengths for the Existing, Baseline, Baseline with Project, 
 
14 Microsimulation of queues using SimTraffic, another analysis software package, was not performed because this model 
is typically used in the design phase of a project. For a planning level study, industry practice is to use the Synchro outputs.

--- page 279 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 44 
 
 
Cumulative and Cumulative with Project conditions. A summary of how the proposed project may affect 
95th percentile queue lengths is as follows: 
▪ 
Existing Conditions – The westbound left-turn queue length exceeds the existing storage capacity 
during the weekday peak hours at the SR-92 Westbound Ramps at Hillsdale Boulevard. Similarly, 
the queue lengths for westbound through movement at the SR-92 Eastbound Ramps at Hillsdale 
Boulevard, and northbound movement at Alameda de Las Pulgas at Hillsdale Boulevard exceeds 
the existing link/storage lengths during the weekday peak hours. 
▪ 
Baseline with Project Conditions – At the SR-92 Westbound Ramps at Hillsdale Boulevard, the 
project would not increase the westbound left-turn lane queue length, though the number of 
vehicles present during the weekday peak hours is estimated to exceed the storage capacity. The 
project would increase queue lengths by five vehicles for the westbound through movement at 
the SR-92 Eastbound Ramps at Hillsdale Boulevard. For other study intersections, the proposed 
project would change queue lengths by one or two vehicles on some turning movements.  
▪ 
Cumulative with Project Conditions – At the SR-92 Westbound Ramps at Hillsdale Boulevard, the 
project is estimated to increase the westbound left-turn lane queue length by more than two 
vehicles and would cause additional traffic queue spillback at the intersection of SR-92 Eastbound 
Ramps at Hillsdale Boulevard. Similarly, the project would increase queue lengths by two vehicles 
for the northbound right-turn movement and cause queue spillback at the northbound left-turn 
movement at the SR-92 Eastbound Ramps at Hillsdale Boulevard. For other study intersections, 
the proposed project would change queue lengths by one or two vehicles on some turning 
movements. 
Table 10: Existing Storage Lengths 
# 
Location 
Storage Length (number of vehicles) 
Eastbound 
Movements 
Westbound 
Movements 
Northbound 
Movements 
Southbound 
Movements 
LT 
TH 
RT 
LT 
TH 
RT 
LT 
TH 
RT 
LT 
TH 
RT 
1 
Campus Drive & 
Hillsdale 
Boulevard (Signal) 
6 
10 
- 
- 
10 
- 
- 
- 
- 
7 
>20 
10 
2 
SR-92 Westbound 
Ramps & Hillsdale 
Boulevard (Signal) 
- 
>20 
- 
8 
>20 
- 
- 
- 
- 
15 
- 
15 
3 
SR-92 Eastbound 
Ramps & Hillsdale 
Boulevard (Signal) 
- 
16 
- 
- 
16 
- 
16 
- 
16 
- 
- 
- 
4 
Alameda de Las 
Pulgas & Hillsdale 
Boulevard (AWSC) 
- 
>20 
- 
- 
>20 
- 
- 
15 
- 
- 
12 
- 
Notes: LT=Left-Turn Movements; TH = Through Movements; RT=Right-Turn Movements; ‘-‘ = Particular movement is not relevant to the intersection.

--- page 280 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
 
 
 
 
      Project # 24837 
November 2020 
  
 
 
 
                Page | 45 
Table 11: 95th Percentile Queue Lengths for Existing Conditions 
# 
Location 
(Control) 
Scenario 
95th Percentile Queue Length (number of vehicles) 
Eastbound 
Approach 
Westbound 
Approach 
Northbound 
Approach 
Southbound 
Approach 
EBL 
EBT 
EBR 
WBL 
WBT 
WBR 
NBL 
NBT 
NBR 
SBL 
SBT 
SBR 
Weekday AM Peak Hour 
1  
Campus Drive & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(Signal) 
No Project 
5 
2 
- 
- 
8 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2 
- 
2 
2 
SR-92 Westbound Ramps & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(Signal) 
No Project 
- 
6 
0 
18 
6 
- 
- 
- 
- 
6 
- 
0 
3 
SR-92 Eastbound Ramps & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(Signal) 
No Project 
- 
4 
- 
- 
13 
- 
>20 
- 
9 
- 
- 
- 
4 
Alameda de Las Pulgas & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(AWSC) 
No Project 
9 
14 
19 
13 
Weekday PM Peak Hour 
1  
Campus Drive & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(Signal) 
No Project 
3 
3 
- 
- 
5 
- 
- 
- 
- 
4 
- 
3 
2 
SR-92 Westbound Ramps & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(Signal) 
No Project 
- 
9 
0 
>20 
3 
- 
- 
- 
- 
6 
- 
0 
3 
SR-92 Eastbound Ramps & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(Signal) 
No Project 
- 
2 
- 
- 
12 
- 
6 
- 
5 
- 
- 
- 
4 
Alameda de Las Pulgas & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(AWSC) 
No Project 
11 
9 
>20 
12 
Notes: EBL = Eastbound Left; EBT = Eastbound Through; EBR = Eastbound Right; similar for W = Westbound, N = Northbound, and S = Southbound movements; AWSC: All-Way Stop Control 
‘-‘ = Particular movement is not relevant to the intersection  
Bold and shaded cells indicate that the queue lengths exceed the storage lengths for the movement.

--- page 281 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
 
 
 
                          Project # 24837 
November 2020 
  
 
 
 
                Page | 46 
 
 
Table 12: 95th Percentile Queue Lengths for Baseline and Baseline with Project Conditions 
# 
Location 
(Control) 
Scenario 
95th  Percentile Queue Length (number of vehicles) 
Eastbound 
Approach 
Westbound 
Approach 
Northbound 
Approach 
Southbound 
Approach 
EBL 
EBT 
EBR 
WBL 
WBT 
WBR 
NBL 
NBT 
NBR 
SBL 
SBT 
SBR 
Weekday AM Peak Hour 
1  
Campus Drive & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(Signal) 
No Project 
5 
2 
- 
- 
8 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2 
- 
3 
Plus Project 
4 
2 
- 
- 
7 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2 
- 
5 
2 
SR-92 Westbound Ramps & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(Signal) 
No Project 
- 
6 
0 
18 
6 
- 
- 
- 
- 
6 
- 
0 
Plus Project 
- 
6 
0 
18 
6 
- 
- 
- 
- 
6 
- 
0 
3 
SR-92 Eastbound Ramps & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(Signal) 
No Project 
- 
4 
- 
- 
14 
- 
>20 
- 
9 
- 
- 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
4 
- 
- 
15 
- 
>20 
- 
6 
- 
- 
- 
4 
Alameda de Las Pulgas & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(AWSC) 
No Project 
9 
14 
19 
13 
Plus Project 
9 
14 
>20 
12 
Weekday PM Peak Hour 
1  
Campus Drive & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(Signal) 
No Project 
3 
3 
- 
- 
6 
- 
- 
- 
- 
4 
- 
7 
Plus Project 
4 
3 
- 
- 
6 
- 
- 
- 
- 
3 
- 
6 
2 
SR-92 Westbound Ramps & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(Signal) 
No Project 
- 
9 
0 
>20 
3 
- 
- 
- 
- 
6 
- 
0 
Plus Project 
- 
9 
0 
>20 
3 
- 
- 
- 
- 
6 
- 
0 
3 
SR-92 Eastbound Ramps & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(Signal) 
No Project 
- 
2 
- 
- 
7 
- 
6 
- 
5 
- 
- 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
3 
- 
- 
12 
- 
6 
- 
7 
- 
- 
- 
4 
Alameda de Las Pulgas & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(AWSC) 
No Project 
11 
9 
>20 
12 
Plus Project 
11 
10 
19 
12 
Notes: EBL = Eastbound Left; EBT = Eastbound Through; EBR = Eastbound Right; similar for W = Westbound, N = Northbound, and S = Southbound movements; AWSC: All-Way Stop Control 
‘-‘ = Particular movement is not relevant to the intersection  
Bold and shaded cells indicate that the queue lengths exceed the storage lengths for the movement.

--- page 282 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
 
 
 
                          Project # 24837 
November 2020 
  
 
 
 
                Page | 47 
 
 
Table 13: 95th Percentile Queue Lengths for Cumulative and Cumulative with Project Conditions 
# 
Location 
(Control) 
Scenario 
95th  Percentile Queue Length (vehicles) 
Eastbound 
Approach 
Westbound 
Approach 
Northbound 
Approach 
Southbound 
Approach 
EBL 
EBT 
EBR 
WBL 
WBT 
WBR 
NBL 
NBT 
NBR 
SBL 
SBT 
SBR 
Weekday AM Peak Hour 
1  
Campus Drive & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(Signal) 
No Project 
5 
3 
- 
- 
10 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2 
- 
4 
Plus Project 
4 
3 
- 
- 
9 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2 
- 
5 
2 
SR-92 Westbound Ramps & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(Signal) 
No Project 
- 
8 
0 
>20 
7 
- 
- 
- 
- 
7 
- 
0 
Plus Project 
- 
7 
0 
>20 
7 
- 
- 
- 
- 
7 
- 
0 
3 
SR-92 Eastbound Ramps & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(Signal) 
No Project 
- 
5 
- 
- 
17 
- 
>20 
- 
>20 
- 
- 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
5 
- 
- 
19 
- 
>20 
- 
14 
- 
- 
- 
4 
Alameda de Las Pulgas & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(Signal) 
No Project 
4 
4 
- 
6 
6 
- 
2 
8 
- 
5 
4 
- 
Plus Project 
4 
4 
- 
6 
6 
- 
2 
9 
- 
5 
3 
- 
Weekday PM Peak Hour 
1  
Campus Drive & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(Signal) 
No Project 
3 
4 
- 
- 
10 
- 
- 
- 
- 
4 
- 
8 
Plus Project 
4 
3 
- 
- 
9 
- 
- 
- 
- 
3 
- 
7 
2 
SR-92 Westbound Ramps & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(Signal) 
No Project 
- 
13 
0 
>20 
3 
- 
- 
- 
- 
8 
- 
0 
Plus Project 
- 
13 
0 
>20 
3 
- 
- 
- 
- 
8 
- 
0 
3 
SR-92 Eastbound Ramps & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(Signal) 
No Project 
- 
4 
- 
- 
17 
- 
7 
- 
14 
- 
- 
- 
Plus Project 
- 
4 
- 
- 
16 
- 
7 
- 
16 
- 
- 
- 
4 
Alameda de Las Pulgas & Hillsdale Boulevard 
(Signal) 
No Project 
5 
6 
- 
8 
5 
- 
2 
10 
- 
4 
4 
- 
Plus Project 
5 
6 
- 
8 
5 
- 
2 
10 
- 
4 
4 
- 
 
Notes: EBL = Eastbound Left; EBT = Eastbound Through; EBR = Eastbound Right; similar for W = Westbound, N = Northbound, and S = Southbound movements 
‘-‘ = Particular movement is not relevant to the intersection  
Bold and shaded cells indicate that the queue lengths exceed the storage lengths for the movement.

--- page 283 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
Project # 24837 
November 2020 
 Page | 48 
TECHNICAL APPENDIX

--- page 284 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
                        Project # 24837 
November 2020 
                 Page | 49 
 
 
Appendix A: Traffic Volume Estimation Memo

--- page 285 ---
MEMORANDUM ‐ FINAL 
 
Date: 
August 13, 2020 
Project #: 24837 
To: 
Rendell Bustos 
 
City of San Mateo 
 
330 West 20th Avenue 
 
San Mateo, CA 94403  
Cc: 
Sue‐Ellen Atkinson, Bethany Lopez 
From: 
Amanda Leahy, AICP and Anusha Musunuru, PhD 
Project: 
Peninsula Heights Traffic Impact Analysis
Subject: 
Traffic Volume Estimation Memorandum – Final 
 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. (Kittelson) has prepared this traffic volume estimation memorandum for 
the  proposed  Peninsula  Heights  development  in  San  Mateo,  California.  The  purpose  of  this 
memorandum is to summarize the methodology associated with estimating traffic volumes for the 
existing conditions because new data collection at the site is not recommended due to COVID‐19 
conditions.1 The project description, trip generation and trip distribution are covered in detail in the 
Trip Generation Memorandum submitted on August 5, 2020.   
STUDY INTERSECTIONS 
The study area and study intersections for this traffic impact analysis are based on the forecast trip 
generation  of  the  development  and  the  anticipated  background  traffic  in  the  vicinity  of  the 
development. The proposed study intersections are:  
1. Campus Drive at Hillsdale Boulevard 
2. SR‐92 Westbound Ramps at Hillsdale Boulevard 
3. SR‐92 Eastbound Ramps at Hillsdale Boulevard 
4. Alameda de Las Pulgas at Hillsdale Boulevard 
 
1 The COVID‐19 pandemic has resulted in shelter‐in‐place orders across the Bay Area and travel demand is significantly 
reduced across all modes. Travel patterns have also changed substantially. These changes are the result of multiple 
factors such as school closures, restrictions on business operations, and an increased amount of telecommuting.

--- page 286 ---
Peninsula Heights Traffic Impact Analysis – Traffic Volume Estimation 
Project #: 24837 
August 13, 2020 
Page 2 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
 
Oakland, California 
TRAFFIC VOLUMES 
Due  to  the  current  atypical  traffic  conditions  associated  with  the  COVID‐19  pandemic,  Kittelson 
proposes to develop an existing conditions analysis using historic traffic count data and engineering 
judgment  to  produce  reasonable  estimates  of  existing  traffic  volumes  under  a  normal  (i.e.,  non‐
pandemic) design time period. The historic turning movement counts will be adjusted to estimate 
reasonable baseline traffic demand in 2020. The following historical turning movement and average 
daily traffic (ADT) counts have been identified for use.  
 
Campus Drive at Hillsdale Boulevard: 2018 counts – AM & PM peak hours and 2020 ADT for 
Campus Drive 
 
SR‐92 Westbound Ramps at Hillsdale Boulevard: 2014 counts – AM & PM peak hours 
 
SR‐92 Eastbound Ramps at Hillsdale Boulevard: 2014 counts – AM & PM peak hours 
 
Alameda de Las Pulgas at Hillsdale Boulevard: 2016 counts – AM & PM peak hours and 2018 
ADT for Hillsdale Boulevard and Alameda de Las Pulgas. 
We propose to adjust the traffic counts above to estimated 2020 traffic conditions. The adjustments 
will reflect a variety of factors including local development, and growth in regional traffic. Exhibits 1 
and 2 are aerial photos illustrating the study area in 2014 and imagery for the latest date available 
(2018, in this case) for context. As is notable from the aerials, no new development has occurred along 
Hillsdale Boulevard or Campus Drive, i.e. near the project vicinity.  
Exhibit 1. Aerial of Study Area in 2014 
 
Source: Google Earth 2/23/2014 
Exhibit 2. Aerial of Study Area in 2018 
 
Source: Google Earth 8/9/2020

--- page 287 ---
Peninsula Heights Traffic Impact Analysis – Traffic Volume Estimation 
Project #: 24837 
August 13, 2020 
Page 3 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
 
Oakland, California 
Assuming  City  staff  concur  with  the  general  methodology  above,  we  will  proceed  with  a  detailed 
derivation of 2020 counts and preview the estimate with City staff.  
The growth rates for Campus Drive, Hillsdale Boulevard, and Alameda de Las Pulgas were obtained by 
interpolating the intersection counts at those locations to the available ADT data on those segments. 
Once  the  annual  growth  rate  was  calculated  for  Hillsdale  Boulevard,  the  SR‐92  Westbound  and 
Eastbound ramp segments were assumed to have similar growth rate as the side arterial street, i.e. 
Hillsdale Boulevard as two percent. Specifically, the annual growth rate was calculated for Hillsdale 
Boulevard using intersection counts at Alameda de Las Pulgas/Hillsdale Boulevard and ADT counts on 
Hillsdale  Boulevard.  This  growth  rate  for  Hillsdale  Boulevard  was  used  at  other  study  locations 
considering the vicinity of the location (the distance between two farthest study intersections is 1.4 
miles), and the count data availability.    
Our steps will include:  
 
Adjust Campus Drive/Hillsdale Boulevard to 1) reflect the calculated annual growth rate of 2 
percent on Hillsdale Boulevard and 2) reflect through traffic growth of one percent annually 
from 2018 to 2020 on Campus Drive (the annual growth rate for Campus Drive was computed 
using  the  2018  intersection  counts  and  2020  ADT  data  on  Campus  Drive  at  Campus 
Drive/Hillsdale  Boulevard  location;  the  annual  growth  rate  for  Hillsdale  Boulevard  was 
computed using the 2016 intersection counts and 2018 ADT data on Hillsdale Boulevard at 
Alameda de Las Pulgas/Hillsdale Boulevard location. The same growth rate that was calculated 
at that intersection for Hillsdale Boulevard was used at this location as well).  
 
Adjust SR‐92 Westbound Ramps/Hillsdale Boulevard to 1) reflect the calculated annual growth 
rate of 2 percent on Hillsdale Boulevard and 2) reflect through traffic growth of 2 percent 
annually on SR‐92 Westbound Ramps (the annual growth rate for Hillsdale Boulevard was 
calculated by interpolating intersection counts to the available ADT data, the SR‐92 Westbound 
ramp segments were assumed to have a similar growth rate as the side arterial street, i.e. 
Hillsdale Boulevard). 
 
Adjust SR‐92 Eastbound Ramps /Hillsdale Boulevard to 1) reflect the calculated annual growth 
rate of 2 percent on Hillsdale Boulevard and 2) reflect through traffic growth of 2 percent 
annually  on  SR‐92  Eastbound  Ramps  (the  annual  growth  rate  for  Hillsdale  Boulevard  was 
calculated by interpolating intersection counts to the available ADT data, the SR‐92 Eastbound 
ramp segments were assumed to have a similar growth rate as the side arterial street, i.e. 
Hillsdale Boulevard). 
 
Adjust Alameda de Las Pulgas/Hillsdale Boulevard to 1) reflect the calculated annual growth 
rate of 2 percent on Hillsdale Boulevard and 2) reflect through traffic growth of 2 and half 
percent annually from 2016 to 2020 on Alameda de Las Pulgas (the annual growth rates for 
Alameda  de  Las  Pulgas  and  Hillsdale  Boulevard  were  computed  by  interpolating  2016 
intersection counts to the available 2020 ADT data).

--- page 288 ---
Peninsula Heights Traffic Impact Analysis – Traffic Volume Estimation 
Project #: 24837 
August 13, 2020 
Page 4 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
 
Oakland, California 
The historic traffic counts for the intersections, and the baseline 2020 counts estimated using the 
methodology above are provided in Table 1 and Table 2, respectively.  
NEXT STEPS 
This memorandum has provided Kittelson’s proposed methodology for adjusting historic, pre‐COVID‐
19 conditions to represent reasonable baseline conditions in 2020. Upon City review and approval of 
the methodology and outputs, Kittelson will proceed with the analysis. 
Table 1: Historic Traffic Counts at Study Intersections  
Intersection (Year) 
Northbound 
Southbound 
Eastbound
Westbound 
PHF 
LT 
TH 
RT 
LT 
TH 
RT 
LT 
TH 
RT 
LT 
TH 
RT 
AM Peak Hour 
Campus Dr/Hillsdale Blvd 
(2018) 
0 
0 
0 
22 
0 
145 
332 
573 
0 
0 
795 
49 
1.00 
SR 92 WB Ramps/Hillsdale 
Blvd (2014) 
0 
0 
0 
309 
0 
696 
0 
310 
156 
508 
795 
0 
0.92 
SR 92 EB Ramps/Hillsdale 
Blvd (2014) 
679 
0 
591 
0 
0 
0 
0 
413 
206 
0 
669 
224 
0.95 
Alameda de Las Pulgas/ 
Hillsdale Blvd (2016) 
105 
415 
124 
98 
326 
32 
58 
216 
105 
88 
163 
66 
0.88 
PM Peak Hour 
Campus Dr/Hillsdale Blvd 
(2018) 
0 
0 
0 
103 
0 
437 
195 
929 
0 
0 
562 
51 
1.00 
SR 92 WB Ramps/Hillsdale 
Blvd (2014) 
0 
0 
0 
291 
0 
283 
0 
453 
316 
602 
442 
0 
0.91 
SR 92 EB Ramps/Hillsdale 
Blvd (2014) 
196 
0 
582 
0 
0 
0 
0 
463 
317 
0 
809 
344 
0.95 
Alameda de Las Pulgas/ 
Hillsdale Blvd (2016) 
117 
335 
72 
127 
372 
37 
32 
282 
116 
101 
175 
59 
0.96 
Table 2: Baseline (2020) Traffic Counts at Study Intersections  
Intersection (Year) 
Northbound 
Southbound 
Eastbound
Westbound
PHF 
LT 
TH 
RT 
LT 
TH 
RT 
LT 
TH 
RT 
LT 
TH 
RT 
AM Peak Hour 
Campus Dr/Hillsdale Blvd  
 
0 
0 
0 
23 
0 
148 
346 
596 
0 
0 
827 
51 
1.00 
SR 92 WB Ramps/Hillsdale 
Blvd  
0 
0 
0 
347 
0 
780 
0 
348 
175 
608 
951 
0 
0.92 
SR 92 EB Ramps/Hillsdale 
Blvd  
761 
0 
662 
0 
0 
0 
0 
463 
231 
0 
750 
251 
0.95 
Alameda de Las Pulgas/ 
Hillsdale Blvd  
116 
457 
137 
108 
359 
36 
63 
234 
114 
96 
177 
72 
0.88 
PM Peak Hour 
Campus Dr/Hillsdale Blvd  
 
0 
0 
0 
106 
0 
446 
203 
967 
0 
0 
585 
54 
1.00

--- page 289 ---
Peninsula Heights Traffic Impact Analysis – Traffic Volume Estimation 
Project #: 24837 
August 13, 2020 
Page 5 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
 
Oakland, California 
SR 92 WB Ramps/Hillsdale 
Blvd  
0 
0 
0 
326 
0 
317 
0 
508 
354 
675 
496 
0 
0.91 
SR 92 EB Ramps/Hillsdale 
Blvd  
220 
0 
652 
0 
0 
0 
0 
519 
356 
0 
907 
386 
0.95 
Alameda de Las Pulgas/ 
Hillsdale Blvd  
129 
369 
80 
140 
405 
41 
35 
305 
125 
110 
189 
64 
0.96

--- page 290 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
                        Project # 24837 
November 2020 
                 Page | 50 
 
 
Appendix B: Existing Conditions Synchro Worksheets

--- page 291 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Existing AM
1: Hillsdale Blvd & Campus Dr
10/02/2020
Existing AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
WBT
WBR
SBL
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
346
596
827
51
23
148
Future Volume (veh/h)
346
596
827
51
23
148
Number
5
2
6
16
7
14
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1863
1863
1863
1900
1863
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
346
596
827
51
23
22
Adj No. of Lanes
2
2
2
0
1
2
Peak Hour Factor
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
512
3045
2284
141
103
577
Arrive On Green
0.10
0.58
0.67
0.67
0.06
0.06
Sat Flow, veh/h
3442
3632
3480
209
1774
2787
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
346
596
432
446
23
22
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1721
1770
1770
1826
1774
1393
Q Serve(g_s), s
7.8
6.4
8.4
8.4
1.0
0.5
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
7.8
6.4
8.4
8.4
1.0
0.5
Prop In Lane
1.00
0.11
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
512
3045
1193
1231
103
577
V/C Ratio(X)
0.68
0.20
0.36
0.36
0.22
0.04
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
1420
3045
1193
1231
266
832
HCM Platoon Ratio
0.67
0.67
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.88
0.88
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
34.2
3.7
5.6
5.6
35.9
25.4
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.5
0.1
0.9
0.8
0.4
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
3.7
3.2
4.4
4.5
0.5
0.4
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
34.7
3.9
6.5
6.4
36.3
25.4
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
A
D
C
Approach Vol, veh/h
942
878
45
Approach Delay, s/veh
15.2
6.5
31.0
Approach LOS
B
A
C
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
4
5
6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
72.3
7.7
14.9
57.4
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.0
4.5
4.5
5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
60.0
10.5
31.5
24.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
8.4
3.0
9.8
10.4
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
6.9
0.0
0.6
6.2
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
11.4
HCM 2010 LOS
B

--- page 292 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Existing AM
2: SR 92 WB On Ramp/SR 92 WB Off Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/02/2020
Existing AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
0
348
175
608
951
0
0
0
0
347
0
780
Future Volume (veh/h)
0
348
175
608
951
0
0
0
0
347
0
780
Number
5
2
12
1
6
16
7
4
14
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
0
1863
1863
1863
1863
0
1863
0
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
0
378
0
661
1034
0
377
0
0
Adj No. of Lanes
0
2
1
1
2
0
2
0
1
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
2
2
2
2
0
2
0
2
Cap, veh/h
0
813
364
742
2541
0
593
0
273
Arrive On Green
0.00
0.23
0.00
0.42
0.72
0.00
0.17
0.00
0.00
Sat Flow, veh/h
0
3632
1583
1774
3632
0
3442
0
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
0
378
0
661
1034
0
377
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
0
1770
1583
1774
1770
0
1721
0
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
4.6
0.0
17.3
5.8
0.0
5.1
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
4.6
0.0
17.3
5.8
0.0
5.1
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
0
813
364
742
2541
0
593
0
273
V/C Ratio(X)
0.00
0.47
0.00
0.89
0.41
0.00
0.64
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
0
2862
1281
1506
2580
0
1546
0
711
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
16.6
0.0
13.5
2.8
0.0
19.3
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.0
0.2
0.0
1.5
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.0
2.3
0.0
8.6
2.7
0.0
2.4
0.0
0.0
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.0
16.8
0.0
15.0
2.9
0.0
19.7
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
B
B
A
B
Approach Vol, veh/h
378
1695
377
Approach Delay, s/veh
16.8
7.6
19.7
Approach LOS
B
A
B
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
1
2
4
6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
24.4
15.0
10.6
39.4
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.0
* 5
3.5
5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
41.0
* 39
21.0
35.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
19.3
6.6
7.1
7.8
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.1
0.5
0.1
1.5
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
10.9
HCM 2010 LOS
B
Notes

--- page 293 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Existing AM
3: SR 92 EB Off Ramp/SR 92 EB On Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/02/2020
Existing AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
0
463
231
0
750
251
761
0
662
0
0
0
Future Volume (veh/h)
0
463
231
0
750
251
761
0
662
0
0
0
Number
5
2
12
1
6
16
3
8
18
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
0
1863
1900
0
1863
1900
1863
0
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
0
487
0
0
789
264
801
0
578
Adj No. of Lanes
0
3
0
0
2
0
1
0
1
Peak Hour Factor
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
2
2
0
2
2
2
0
2
Cap, veh/h
0
2340
0
0
1199
401
847
0
756
Arrive On Green
0.00
0.46
0.00
0.00
0.15
0.15
0.48
0.00
0.48
Sat Flow, veh/h
0
5421
0
0
2700
872
1774
0
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
0
487
0
0
536
517
801
0
578
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
0
1695
0
0
1770
1709
1774
0
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
4.6
0.0
0.0
22.8
22.8
34.4
0.0
24.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
4.6
0.0
0.0
22.8
22.8
34.4
0.0
24.0
Prop In Lane
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.51
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
0
2340
0
0
814
786
847
0
756
V/C Ratio(X)
0.00
0.21
0.00
0.00
0.66
0.66
0.95
0.00
0.76
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
0
2340
0
0
814
786
942
0
841
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.33
0.33
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.00
0.76
0.00
0.00
0.93
0.93
1.00
0.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
12.9
0.0
0.0
28.0
28.0
19.9
0.0
17.2
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
3.9
4.0
16.1
0.0
3.2
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.0
2.2
0.0
0.0
12.0
11.7
20.5
0.0
11.1
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.0
13.0
0.0
0.0
31.9
32.0
36.1
0.0
20.4
LnGrp LOS
B
C
C
D
C
Approach Vol, veh/h
487
1053
1379
Approach Delay, s/veh
13.0
31.9
29.5
Approach LOS
B
C
C
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
39.8
39.8
40.2
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.5
4.5
3.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
31.0
31.0
41.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
6.6
24.8
36.4
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.8
1.0
0.3
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
27.6
HCM 2010 LOS
C

--- page 294 ---
HCM 2010 AWSC
Existing AM
4: Hillsdale Blvd & Alameda de Las Pulgas
10/02/2020
Existing AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
95.3
Intersection LOS
F
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
108
359
36
116
457
137
63
234
114
96
177
72
Future Vol, veh/h
108
359
36
116
457
137
63
234
114
96
177
72
Peak Hour Factor
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
123
408
41
132
519
156
72
266
130
109
201
82
Number of Lanes
0
2
0
0
2
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
Approach
SE
NW
NE
SW
Opposing Approach
NW
SE
SW
NE
Opposing Lanes
2
2
1
1
Conflicting Approach Left
SW
NE
SE
NW
Conflicting Lanes Left
1
1
2
2
Conflicting Approach Right
NE
SW
NW
SE
Conflicting Lanes Right
1
1
2
2
HCM Control Delay
47.6
102.6
145.8
89.4
HCM LOS
E
F
F
F
        
Lane
NELn1 NWLn1 NWLn2
SELn1
SELn2 SWLn1
Vol Left, %
15%
34%
0%
38%
0%
28%
Vol Thru, %
57%
66%
63%
62%
83%
51%
Vol Right, %
28%
0%
37%
0%
17%
21%
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane
411
345
366
288
216
345
LT Vol
63
116
0
108
0
96
Through Vol
234
229
229
180
180
177
RT Vol
114
0
137
0
36
72
Lane Flow Rate
467
391
415
327
245
392
Geometry Grp
2
7
7
7
7
2
Degree of Util (X)
1.208
1.067
1.082
0.9
0.654
1.031
Departure Headway (Hd)
9.675
10.589
10.133
10.656
10.333
10.211
Convergence, Y/N
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Cap
378
345
361
343
353
357
Service Time
7.675
8.289
7.833
8.356
8.033
8.211
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
1.235
1.133
1.15
0.953
0.694
1.098
HCM Control Delay
145.8
101.2
103.9
60.3
30.6
89.4
HCM Lane LOS
F
F
F
F
D
F
HCM 95th-tile Q
18.7
13.2
14
8.8
4.4
12.4

--- page 295 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Existing PM
1: Hillsdale Blvd & Campus Dr
10/02/2020
Existing PM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
WBT
WBR
SBL
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
203
967
585
54
106
446
Future Volume (veh/h)
203
967
585
54
106
446
Number
5
2
6
16
7
14
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1863
1863
1863
1900
1863
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
203
967
585
54
106
320
Adj No. of Lanes
2
2
2
0
1
2
Peak Hour Factor
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
369
2674
1984
183
269
722
Arrive On Green
0.14
1.00
0.61
0.61
0.15
0.15
Sat Flow, veh/h
3442
3632
3370
302
1774
2787
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
203
967
315
324
106
320
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1721
1770
1770
1809
1774
1393
Q Serve(g_s), s
3.8
0.0
6.0
6.0
3.8
6.7
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
3.8
0.0
6.0
6.0
3.8
6.7
Prop In Lane
1.00
0.17
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
369
2674
1071
1095
269
722
V/C Ratio(X)
0.55
0.36
0.29
0.30
0.39
0.44
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
983
2674
1071
1095
355
856
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.33
1.33
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.91
0.91
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
28.4
0.0
6.6
6.6
26.8
21.7
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.4
0.3
0.7
0.7
0.3
0.2
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
1.8
0.1
3.1
3.2
1.9
5.4
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
28.9
0.3
7.3
7.3
27.1
21.9
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
A
C
C
Approach Vol, veh/h
1170
639
426
Approach Delay, s/veh
5.3
7.3
23.2
Approach LOS
A
A
C
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
4
5
6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
56.4
13.6
10.5
45.9
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.0
4.5
4.5
5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
48.0
12.5
18.5
25.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
2.0
8.7
5.8
8.0
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
13.0
0.4
0.3
5.0
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
9.3
HCM 2010 LOS
A

--- page 296 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Existing PM
2: SR 92 WB On Ramp/SR 92 WB Off Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/02/2020
Existing PM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
0
508
354
675
496
0
0
0
0
326
0
317
Future Volume (veh/h)
0
508
354
675
496
0
0
0
0
326
0
317
Number
5
2
12
1
6
16
7
4
14
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
0
1863
1863
1863
1863
0
1863
0
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
0
558
0
742
545
0
358
0
0
Adj No. of Lanes
0
2
1
1
2
0
2
0
1
Peak Hour Factor
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
2
2
2
2
0
2
0
2
Cap, veh/h
0
787
352
810
2623
0
553
0
254
Arrive On Green
0.00
0.22
0.00
0.46
0.74
0.00
0.16
0.00
0.00
Sat Flow, veh/h
0
3632
1583
1774
3632
0
3442
0
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
0
558
0
742
545
0
358
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
0
1770
1583
1774
1770
0
1721
0
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
8.2
0.0
21.9
2.6
0.0
5.5
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
8.2
0.0
21.9
2.6
0.0
5.5
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
0
787
352
810
2623
0
553
0
254
V/C Ratio(X)
0.00
0.71
0.00
0.92
0.21
0.00
0.65
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
0
2559
1145
1346
2623
0
1382
0
636
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
20.1
0.0
14.2
2.2
0.0
22.0
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.0
0.4
0.0
3.9
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.0
4.0
0.0
11.4
1.2
0.0
2.6
0.0
0.0
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.0
20.6
0.0
18.1
2.2
0.0
22.5
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
C
B
A
C
Approach Vol, veh/h
558
1287
358
Approach Delay, s/veh
20.6
11.4
22.5
Approach LOS
C
B
C
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
1
2
4
6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
29.1
16.0
11.0
45.0
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.0
* 5
3.5
5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
41.0
* 39
21.0
35.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
23.9
10.2
7.5
4.6
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.2
0.8
0.1
0.7
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
15.5
HCM 2010 LOS
B
Notes

--- page 297 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Existing PM
3: SR 92 EB Off Ramp/SR 92 EB On Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/02/2020
Existing PM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
0
519
356
0
907
386
220
0
652
0
0
0
Future Volume (veh/h)
0
519
356
0
907
386
220
0
652
0
0
0
Number
5
2
12
1
6
16
3
8
18
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
0
1863
1900
0
1863
1900
1863
0
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
0
546
0
0
955
406
232
0
446
Adj No. of Lanes
0
3
0
0
2
0
1
0
1
Peak Hour Factor
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
2
2
0
2
2
2
0
2
Cap, veh/h
0
3106
0
0
1485
624
564
0
503
Arrive On Green
0.00
0.61
0.00
0.00
0.61
0.61
0.32
0.00
0.32
Sat Flow, veh/h
0
5421
0
0
2524
1022
1774
0
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
0
546
0
0
692
669
232
0
446
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
0
1695
0
0
1770
1682
1774
0
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
3.3
0.0
0.0
17.5
18.0
7.2
0.0
18.7
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
3.3
0.0
0.0
17.5
18.0
7.2
0.0
18.7
Prop In Lane
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.61
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
0
3106
0
0
1081
1028
564
0
503
V/C Ratio(X)
0.00
0.18
0.00
0.00
0.64
0.65
0.41
0.00
0.89
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
0
3106
0
0
1081
1028
570
0
509
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.00
0.64
0.00
0.00
0.94
0.94
1.00
0.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
5.9
0.0
0.0
8.7
8.8
18.7
0.0
22.7
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.0
0.1
0.0
0.0
2.8
3.0
0.2
0.0
16.4
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.0
1.5
0.0
0.0
9.3
9.0
3.5
0.0
10.5
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.0
6.0
0.0
0.0
11.5
11.8
18.9
0.0
39.0
LnGrp LOS
A
B
B
B
D
Approach Vol, veh/h
546
1361
678
Approach Delay, s/veh
6.0
11.6
32.2
Approach LOS
A
B
C
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
45.8
45.8
24.2
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.5
4.5
3.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
41.0
41.0
21.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
5.3
20.0
20.7
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.9
1.8
0.0
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
15.8
HCM 2010 LOS
B

--- page 298 ---
HCM 2010 AWSC
Existing PM
4: Hillsdale Blvd & Alameda de Las Pulgas
10/02/2020
Existing PM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
86.4
Intersection LOS
F
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
140
405
41
129
369
80
35
305
125
110
189
64
Future Vol, veh/h
140
405
41
129
369
80
35
305
125
110
189
64
Peak Hour Factor
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
146
422
43
134
384
83
36
318
130
115
197
67
Number of Lanes
0
2
0
0
2
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
Approach
SE
NW
NE
SW
Opposing Approach
NW
SE
SW
NE
Opposing Lanes
2
2
1
1
Conflicting Approach Left
SW
NE
SE
NW
Conflicting Lanes Left
1
1
2
2
Conflicting Approach Right
NE
SW
NW
SE
Conflicting Lanes Right
1
1
2
2
HCM Control Delay
57.3
48.5
175.3
79.7
HCM LOS
F
E
F
F
        
Lane
NELn1 NWLn1 NWLn2
SELn1
SELn2 SWLn1
Vol Left, %
8%
41%
0%
41%
0%
30%
Vol Thru, %
66%
59%
70%
59%
83%
52%
Vol Right, %
27%
0%
30%
0%
17%
18%
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane
465
314
265
343
244
363
LT Vol
35
129
0
140
0
110
Through Vol
305
185
185
203
203
189
RT Vol
125
0
80
0
41
64
Lane Flow Rate
484
327
276
357
254
378
Geometry Grp
2
7
7
7
7
2
Degree of Util (X)
1.286
0.893
0.721
0.971
0.668
0.991
Departure Headway (Hd)
9.56
10.765
10.323
10.715
10.373
10.445
Convergence, Y/N
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Cap
383
340
353
342
350
352
Service Time
7.56
8.465
8.023
8.415
8.073
8.445
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
1.264
0.962
0.782
1.044
0.726
1.074
HCM Control Delay
175.3
59.4
35.6
75.6
31.6
79.7
HCM Lane LOS
F
F
E
F
D
F
HCM 95th-tile Q
21.8
8.6
5.4
10.5
4.6
11.1

--- page 299 ---
Queues
Existing AM
1: Hillsdale Blvd & Campus Dr
10/06/2020
Existing AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBL
EBT
WBT
SBL
SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
346
596
878
23
148
v/c Ratio
0.57
0.21
0.41
0.13
0.16
Control Delay
34.2
1.4
9.8
33.7
11.6
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.1
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
34.2
1.4
9.9
33.7
11.6
Queue Length 50th (ft)
82
14
109
11
18
Queue Length 95th (ft)
122
33
181
31
35
Internal Link Dist (ft)
270
767
1297
Turn Bay Length (ft)
155
150
150
Base Capacity (vph)
1416
2894
2120
265
1553
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
370
0
5
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.24
0.21
0.50
0.09
0.10
Intersection Summary

--- page 300 ---
Queues
Existing AM
2: SR 92 WB On Ramp/SR 92 WB Off Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/06/2020
Existing AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
SBL
SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
378
190
661
1034
377
848
v/c Ratio
0.59
0.12
0.71
0.39
0.62
0.54
Control Delay
32.8
0.2
19.8
4.1
33.4
1.3
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
1.1
0.1
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
32.8
0.2
21.0
4.2
33.4
1.3
Queue Length 50th (ft)
82
0
203
64
80
0
Queue Length 95th (ft)
145
0
435
132
137
0
Internal Link Dist (ft)
592
325
Turn Bay Length (ft)
200
250
300
Base Capacity (vph)
1970
1583
1034
3525
1061
1583
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
175
943
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.19
0.12
0.77
0.40
0.36
0.54
Intersection Summary

--- page 301 ---
Queues
Existing AM
3: SR 92 EB Off Ramp/SR 92 EB On Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/06/2020
Existing AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBT
WBT
NBL
NBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
730
1053
801
578
v/c Ratio
0.33
0.71
0.91
0.64
Control Delay
11.6
18.7
33.7
11.7
Queue Delay
0.0
1.5
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
11.6
20.3
33.7
11.7
Queue Length 50th (ft)
63
250
323
107
Queue Length 95th (ft)
92
325
#562
205
Internal Link Dist (ft)
325
270
Turn Bay Length (ft)
400
Base Capacity (vph)
2226
1494
941
948
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
255
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.33
0.85
0.85
0.61
Intersection Summary
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

--- page 302 ---
Queues
Existing PM
1: Hillsdale Blvd & Campus Dr
10/06/2020
Existing PM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBL
EBT
WBT
SBL
SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
203
967
639
106
446
v/c Ratio
0.41
0.36
0.32
0.42
0.41
Control Delay
29.8
3.0
9.0
31.6
8.0
Queue Delay
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
29.8
3.2
9.0
31.6
8.0
Queue Length 50th (ft)
40
59
67
42
34
Queue Length 95th (ft)
68
71
121
81
59
Internal Link Dist (ft)
270
767
1297
Turn Bay Length (ft)
155
150
150
Base Capacity (vph)
980
2702
2017
354
1424
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
870
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
131
0
9
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.21
0.53
0.34
0.30
0.32
Intersection Summary

--- page 303 ---
Queues
Existing PM
2: SR 92 WB On Ramp/SR 92 WB Off Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/06/2020
Existing PM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
SBL
SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
558
389
742
545
358
348
v/c Ratio
0.74
0.25
0.80
0.20
0.65
0.22
Control Delay
37.1
0.4
26.6
3.0
38.6
0.3
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
15.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
37.1
0.4
42.0
3.0
38.6
0.3
Queue Length 50th (ft)
140
0
288
28
89
0
Queue Length 95th (ft)
212
0
#648
61
142
0
Internal Link Dist (ft)
592
325
Turn Bay Length (ft)
200
250
300
Base Capacity (vph)
1763
1583
925
3478
950
1583
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
182
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.32
0.25
1.00
0.16
0.38
0.22
Intersection Summary
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

--- page 304 ---
Queues
Existing PM
3: SR 92 EB Off Ramp/SR 92 EB On Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/06/2020
Existing PM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBT
WBT
NBL
NBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
921
1361
232
446
v/c Ratio
0.26
0.55
0.66
0.76
Control Delay
2.4
5.8
34.2
15.6
Queue Delay
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
2.4
6.0
34.2
15.6
Queue Length 50th (ft)
19
105
94
40
Queue Length 95th (ft)
47
277
140
117
Internal Link Dist (ft)
325
270
Turn Bay Length (ft)
400
Base Capacity (vph)
3587
2467
568
739
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
349
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.26
0.64
0.41
0.60
Intersection Summary

--- page 305 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
                        Project # 24837 
November 2020 
                 Page | 51 
 
 
Appendix C: Baseline Conditions Synchro Worksheets

--- page 306 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Baseline AM
1: Hillsdale Blvd & Campus Dr
10/02/2020
Baseline AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
WBT
WBR
SBL
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
346
596
827
51
23
148
Future Volume (veh/h)
346
596
827
51
23
148
Number
5
2
6
16
7
14
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1863
1863
1863
1900
1863
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
346
596
827
51
23
22
Adj No. of Lanes
2
2
2
0
1
1
Peak Hour Factor
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
512
3045
2284
141
103
328
Arrive On Green
0.10
0.58
0.67
0.67
0.06
0.06
Sat Flow, veh/h
3442
3632
3480
209
1774
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
346
596
432
446
23
22
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1721
1770
1770
1826
1774
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
7.8
6.4
8.4
8.4
1.0
0.9
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
7.8
6.4
8.4
8.4
1.0
0.9
Prop In Lane
1.00
0.11
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
512
3045
1193
1231
103
328
V/C Ratio(X)
0.68
0.20
0.36
0.36
0.22
0.07
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
1420
3045
1193
1231
266
473
HCM Platoon Ratio
0.67
0.67
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.88
0.88
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
34.2
3.7
5.6
5.6
35.9
25.5
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.5
0.1
0.9
0.8
0.4
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
3.7
3.2
4.4
4.5
0.5
0.9
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
34.7
3.9
6.5
6.4
36.3
25.5
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
A
D
C
Approach Vol, veh/h
942
878
45
Approach Delay, s/veh
15.2
6.5
31.1
Approach LOS
B
A
C
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
4
5
6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
72.3
7.7
14.9
57.4
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.0
4.5
4.5
5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
60.0
10.5
31.5
24.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
8.4
3.0
9.8
10.4
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
6.9
0.0
0.6
6.2
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
11.5
HCM 2010 LOS
B

--- page 307 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Baseline AM
2: SR 92 WB On Ramp/SR 92 WB Off Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/02/2020
Baseline AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
0
348
175
608
951
0
0
0
0
347
0
780
Future Volume (veh/h)
0
348
175
608
951
0
0
0
0
347
0
780
Number
5
2
12
1
6
16
7
4
14
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
0
1863
1863
1863
1863
0
1863
0
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
0
378
0
661
1034
0
377
0
0
Adj No. of Lanes
0
2
1
1
2
0
2
0
1
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
2
2
2
2
0
2
0
2
Cap, veh/h
0
813
364
742
2541
0
593
0
273
Arrive On Green
0.00
0.23
0.00
0.42
0.72
0.00
0.17
0.00
0.00
Sat Flow, veh/h
0
3632
1583
1774
3632
0
3442
0
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
0
378
0
661
1034
0
377
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
0
1770
1583
1774
1770
0
1721
0
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
4.6
0.0
17.3
5.8
0.0
5.1
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
4.6
0.0
17.3
5.8
0.0
5.1
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
0
813
364
742
2541
0
593
0
273
V/C Ratio(X)
0.00
0.47
0.00
0.89
0.41
0.00
0.64
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
0
2862
1281
1506
2580
0
1546
0
711
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
16.6
0.0
13.5
2.8
0.0
19.3
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.0
0.2
0.0
1.5
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.0
2.3
0.0
8.6
2.7
0.0
2.4
0.0
0.0
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.0
16.8
0.0
15.0
2.9
0.0
19.7
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
B
B
A
B
Approach Vol, veh/h
378
1695
377
Approach Delay, s/veh
16.8
7.6
19.7
Approach LOS
B
A
B
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
1
2
4
6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
24.4
15.0
10.6
39.4
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.0
* 5
3.5
5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
41.0
* 39
21.0
35.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
19.3
6.6
7.1
7.8
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.1
0.5
0.1
1.5
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
10.9
HCM 2010 LOS
B
Notes

--- page 308 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Baseline AM
3: SR 92 EB Off Ramp/SR 92 EB On Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/02/2020
Baseline AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
0
463
231
0
750
251
761
0
662
0
0
0
Future Volume (veh/h)
0
463
231
0
750
251
761
0
662
0
0
0
Number
5
2
12
1
6
16
3
8
18
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
0
1863
1900
0
1863
1900
1863
0
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
0
487
0
0
789
264
801
0
578
Adj No. of Lanes
0
3
0
0
2
0
1
0
1
Peak Hour Factor
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
2
2
0
2
2
2
0
2
Cap, veh/h
0
2340
0
0
1199
401
847
0
756
Arrive On Green
0.00
0.46
0.00
0.00
0.15
0.15
0.48
0.00
0.48
Sat Flow, veh/h
0
5421
0
0
2700
872
1774
0
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
0
487
0
0
536
517
801
0
578
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
0
1695
0
0
1770
1709
1774
0
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
4.6
0.0
0.0
22.8
22.8
34.4
0.0
24.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
4.6
0.0
0.0
22.8
22.8
34.4
0.0
24.0
Prop In Lane
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.51
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
0
2340
0
0
814
786
847
0
756
V/C Ratio(X)
0.00
0.21
0.00
0.00
0.66
0.66
0.95
0.00
0.76
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
0
2340
0
0
814
786
942
0
841
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.33
0.33
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.00
0.76
0.00
0.00
0.92
0.92
1.00
0.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
12.9
0.0
0.0
28.0
28.0
19.9
0.0
17.2
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
3.8
3.9
16.1
0.0
3.2
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.0
2.2
0.0
0.0
12.0
11.7
20.5
0.0
11.1
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.0
13.0
0.0
0.0
31.8
31.9
36.1
0.0
20.4
LnGrp LOS
B
C
C
D
C
Approach Vol, veh/h
487
1053
1379
Approach Delay, s/veh
13.0
31.9
29.5
Approach LOS
B
C
C
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
39.8
39.8
40.2
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.5
4.5
3.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
31.0
31.0
41.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
6.6
24.8
36.4
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.8
1.0
0.3
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
27.6
HCM 2010 LOS
C

--- page 309 ---
HCM 2010 AWSC
Baseline AM
4: Hillsdale Blvd & Alameda de Las Pulgas
10/02/2020
Baseline AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
95.3
Intersection LOS
F
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
108
359
36
116
457
137
63
234
114
96
177
72
Future Vol, veh/h
108
359
36
116
457
137
63
234
114
96
177
72
Peak Hour Factor
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
123
408
41
132
519
156
72
266
130
109
201
82
Number of Lanes
0
2
0
0
2
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
Approach
SE
NW
NE
SW
Opposing Approach
NW
SE
SW
NE
Opposing Lanes
2
2
1
1
Conflicting Approach Left
SW
NE
SE
NW
Conflicting Lanes Left
1
1
2
2
Conflicting Approach Right
NE
SW
NW
SE
Conflicting Lanes Right
1
1
2
2
HCM Control Delay
47.6
102.6
145.8
89.4
HCM LOS
E
F
F
F
        
Lane
NELn1 NWLn1 NWLn2
SELn1
SELn2 SWLn1
Vol Left, %
15%
34%
0%
38%
0%
28%
Vol Thru, %
57%
66%
63%
62%
83%
51%
Vol Right, %
28%
0%
37%
0%
17%
21%
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane
411
345
366
288
216
345
LT Vol
63
116
0
108
0
96
Through Vol
234
229
229
180
180
177
RT Vol
114
0
137
0
36
72
Lane Flow Rate
467
391
415
327
245
392
Geometry Grp
2
7
7
7
7
2
Degree of Util (X)
1.208
1.067
1.082
0.9
0.654
1.031
Departure Headway (Hd)
9.675
10.589
10.133
10.656
10.333
10.211
Convergence, Y/N
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Cap
378
345
361
343
353
357
Service Time
7.675
8.289
7.833
8.356
8.033
8.211
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
1.235
1.133
1.15
0.953
0.694
1.098
HCM Control Delay
145.8
101.2
103.9
60.3
30.6
89.4
HCM Lane LOS
F
F
F
F
D
F
HCM 95th-tile Q
18.7
13.2
14
8.8
4.4
12.4

--- page 310 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Baseline PM
1: Hillsdale Blvd & Campus Dr
10/02/2020
Baseline PM Peak Hour Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Page 1
Movement
EBL
EBT
WBT
WBR
SBL
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
203
967
585
54
106
446
Future Volume (veh/h)
203
967
585
54
106
446
Number
5
2
6
16
7
14
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1863
1863
1863
1900
1863
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
203
967
585
54
106
320
Adj No. of Lanes
2
2
2
0
1
1
Peak Hour Factor
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
373
2503
1822
168
355
488
Arrive On Green
0.11
0.71
0.56
0.56
0.20
0.20
Sat Flow, veh/h
3442
3632
3370
302
1774
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
203
967
315
324
106
320
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1721
1770
1770
1809
1774
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
3.9
7.7
6.7
6.8
3.6
12.3
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
3.9
7.7
6.7
6.8
3.6
12.3
Prop In Lane
1.00
0.17
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
373
2503
984
1006
355
488
V/C Ratio(X)
0.54
0.39
0.32
0.32
0.30
0.66
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
983
2503
984
1006
355
488
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.91
0.91
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
29.6
4.1
8.4
8.4
23.8
21.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.4
0.4
0.9
0.8
0.2
2.5
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
1.9
3.8
3.5
3.6
1.8
10.8
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
30.0
4.5
9.3
9.2
24.0
23.5
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
A
C
C
Approach Vol, veh/h
1170
639
426
Approach Delay, s/veh
9.0
9.3
23.6
Approach LOS
A
A
C
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
4
5
6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
53.0
17.0
10.6
42.4
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.0
4.5
4.5
5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
48.0
12.5
18.5
25.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
9.7
14.3
5.9
8.8
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
12.3
0.0
0.3
4.9
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
11.8
HCM 2010 LOS
B

--- page 311 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Baseline PM
2: SR 92 WB On Ramp/SR 92 WB Off Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/02/2020
Baseline PM Peak Hour Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Page 2
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
0
508
354
675
496
0
0
0
0
326
0
317
Future Volume (veh/h)
0
508
354
675
496
0
0
0
0
326
0
317
Number
5
2
12
1
6
16
7
4
14
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
0
1863
1863
1863
1863
0
1863
0
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
0
558
0
742
545
0
358
0
0
Adj No. of Lanes
0
2
1
1
2
0
2
0
1
Peak Hour Factor
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
2
2
2
2
0
2
0
2
Cap, veh/h
0
787
352
810
2623
0
553
0
254
Arrive On Green
0.00
0.22
0.00
0.46
0.74
0.00
0.16
0.00
0.00
Sat Flow, veh/h
0
3632
1583
1774
3632
0
3442
0
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
0
558
0
742
545
0
358
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
0
1770
1583
1774
1770
0
1721
0
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
8.2
0.0
21.9
2.6
0.0
5.5
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
8.2
0.0
21.9
2.6
0.0
5.5
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
0
787
352
810
2623
0
553
0
254
V/C Ratio(X)
0.00
0.71
0.00
0.92
0.21
0.00
0.65
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
0
2559
1145
1346
2623
0
1382
0
636
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
20.1
0.0
14.2
2.2
0.0
22.0
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.0
0.4
0.0
3.9
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.0
4.0
0.0
11.4
1.2
0.0
2.6
0.0
0.0
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.0
20.6
0.0
18.1
2.2
0.0
22.5
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
C
B
A
C
Approach Vol, veh/h
558
1287
358
Approach Delay, s/veh
20.6
11.4
22.5
Approach LOS
C
B
C
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
1
2
4
6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
29.1
16.0
11.0
45.0
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.0
* 5
3.5
5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
41.0
* 39
21.0
35.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
23.9
10.2
7.5
4.6
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.2
0.8
0.1
0.7
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
15.5
HCM 2010 LOS
B
Notes

--- page 312 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Baseline PM
3: SR 92 EB Off Ramp/SR 92 EB On Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/02/2020
Baseline PM Peak Hour Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Page 4
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
0
519
356
0
907
386
220
0
652
0
0
0
Future Volume (veh/h)
0
519
356
0
907
386
220
0
652
0
0
0
Number
5
2
12
1
6
16
3
8
18
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
0
1863
1900
0
1863
1900
1863
0
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
0
546
0
0
955
406
232
0
446
Adj No. of Lanes
0
3
0
0
2
0
1
0
1
Peak Hour Factor
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
2
2
0
2
2
2
0
2
Cap, veh/h
0
3106
0
0
1485
624
564
0
503
Arrive On Green
0.00
0.61
0.00
0.00
0.61
0.61
0.32
0.00
0.32
Sat Flow, veh/h
0
5421
0
0
2524
1022
1774
0
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
0
546
0
0
692
669
232
0
446
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
0
1695
0
0
1770
1682
1774
0
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
3.3
0.0
0.0
17.5
18.0
7.2
0.0
18.7
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
3.3
0.0
0.0
17.5
18.0
7.2
0.0
18.7
Prop In Lane
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.61
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
0
3106
0
0
1081
1028
564
0
503
V/C Ratio(X)
0.00
0.18
0.00
0.00
0.64
0.65
0.41
0.00
0.89
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
0
3106
0
0
1081
1028
570
0
509
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.00
0.64
0.00
0.00
0.88
0.88
1.00
0.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
5.9
0.0
0.0
8.7
8.8
18.7
0.0
22.7
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.0
0.1
0.0
0.0
2.6
2.8
0.2
0.0
16.4
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.0
1.5
0.0
0.0
9.2
9.0
3.5
0.0
10.5
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.0
6.0
0.0
0.0
11.3
11.6
18.9
0.0
39.0
LnGrp LOS
A
B
B
B
D
Approach Vol, veh/h
546
1361
678
Approach Delay, s/veh
6.0
11.4
32.2
Approach LOS
A
B
C
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
45.8
45.8
24.2
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.5
4.5
3.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
41.0
41.0
21.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
5.3
20.0
20.7
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.9
1.8
0.0
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
15.7
HCM 2010 LOS
B

--- page 313 ---
HCM 2010 AWSC
Baseline PM
4: Hillsdale Blvd & Alameda de Las Pulgas
10/02/2020
Baseline PM Peak Hour Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Page 5
Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
86.4
Intersection LOS
F
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
140
405
41
129
369
80
35
305
125
110
189
64
Future Vol, veh/h
140
405
41
129
369
80
35
305
125
110
189
64
Peak Hour Factor
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
146
422
43
134
384
83
36
318
130
115
197
67
Number of Lanes
0
2
0
0
2
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
Approach
SE
NW
NE
SW
Opposing Approach
NW
SE
SW
NE
Opposing Lanes
2
2
1
1
Conflicting Approach Left
SW
NE
SE
NW
Conflicting Lanes Left
1
1
2
2
Conflicting Approach Right
NE
SW
NW
SE
Conflicting Lanes Right
1
1
2
2
HCM Control Delay
57.3
48.5
175.3
79.7
HCM LOS
F
E
F
F
        
Lane
NELn1 NWLn1 NWLn2
SELn1
SELn2 SWLn1
Vol Left, %
8%
41%
0%
41%
0%
30%
Vol Thru, %
66%
59%
70%
59%
83%
52%
Vol Right, %
27%
0%
30%
0%
17%
18%
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane
465
314
265
343
244
363
LT Vol
35
129
0
140
0
110
Through Vol
305
185
185
203
203
189
RT Vol
125
0
80
0
41
64
Lane Flow Rate
484
327
276
357
254
378
Geometry Grp
2
7
7
7
7
2
Degree of Util (X)
1.286
0.893
0.721
0.971
0.668
0.991
Departure Headway (Hd)
9.56
10.765
10.323
10.715
10.373
10.445
Convergence, Y/N
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Cap
383
340
353
342
350
352
Service Time
7.56
8.465
8.023
8.415
8.073
8.445
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
1.264
0.962
0.782
1.044
0.726
1.074
HCM Control Delay
175.3
59.4
35.6
75.6
31.6
79.7
HCM Lane LOS
F
F
E
F
D
F
HCM 95th-tile Q
21.8
8.6
5.4
10.5
4.6
11.1

--- page 314 ---
Queues
Baseline AM
1: Hillsdale Blvd & Campus Dr
10/06/2020
Baseline AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBL
EBT
WBT
SBL
SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
346
596
878
23
148
v/c Ratio
0.57
0.21
0.43
0.10
0.27
Control Delay
33.5
1.8
11.1
31.0
14.8
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
33.5
1.8
11.2
31.0
14.8
Queue Length 50th (ft)
79
18
120
10
40
Queue Length 95th (ft)
120
37
192
31
74
Internal Link Dist (ft)
270
767
1297
Turn Bay Length (ft)
155
150
150
Base Capacity (vph)
1416
2810
2036
265
917
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
410
0
3
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.24
0.21
0.54
0.09
0.16
Intersection Summary

--- page 315 ---
Queues
Baseline AM
2: SR 92 WB On Ramp/SR 92 WB Off Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/06/2020
Baseline AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
SBL
SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
378
190
661
1034
377
848
v/c Ratio
0.59
0.12
0.71
0.39
0.62
0.54
Control Delay
32.8
0.2
19.8
4.1
33.4
1.3
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
1.1
0.1
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
32.8
0.2
21.0
4.2
33.4
1.3
Queue Length 50th (ft)
82
0
203
64
80
0
Queue Length 95th (ft)
145
0
435
132
137
0
Internal Link Dist (ft)
592
325
Turn Bay Length (ft)
200
250
300
Base Capacity (vph)
1970
1583
1034
3525
1061
1583
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
175
943
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.19
0.12
0.77
0.40
0.36
0.54
Intersection Summary

--- page 316 ---
Queues
Baseline AM
3: SR 92 EB Off Ramp/SR 92 EB On Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/06/2020
Baseline AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBT
WBT
NBL
NBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
730
1053
801
578
v/c Ratio
0.33
0.71
0.91
0.64
Control Delay
11.6
18.6
33.7
11.7
Queue Delay
0.0
1.4
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
11.6
20.0
33.7
11.7
Queue Length 50th (ft)
63
254
323
107
Queue Length 95th (ft)
92
334
#562
205
Internal Link Dist (ft)
325
270
Turn Bay Length (ft)
400
Base Capacity (vph)
2226
1494
941
948
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
245
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.33
0.84
0.85
0.61
Intersection Summary
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

--- page 317 ---
Queues
Baseline PM
1: Hillsdale Blvd & Campus Dr
10/06/2020
Baseline PM Peak Hour Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Page 1
Lane Group
EBL
EBT
WBT
SBL
SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
203
967
639
106
446
v/c Ratio
0.38
0.38
0.35
0.32
0.64
Control Delay
28.1
4.1
11.4
26.9
15.4
Queue Delay
0.0
0.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
28.1
4.3
11.5
26.9
15.4
Queue Length 50th (ft)
39
72
78
39
101
Queue Length 95th (ft)
61
72
138
80
159
Internal Link Dist (ft)
270
767
1297
Turn Bay Length (ft)
155
150
150
Base Capacity (vph)
980
2540
1818
354
887
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
794
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
98
0
3
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.21
0.55
0.37
0.30
0.50
Intersection Summary

--- page 318 ---
Queues
Baseline PM
2: SR 92 WB On Ramp/SR 92 WB Off Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/06/2020
Baseline PM Peak Hour Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Page 2
Lane Group
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
SBL
SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
558
389
742
545
358
348
v/c Ratio
0.74
0.25
0.80
0.20
0.65
0.22
Control Delay
37.1
0.4
26.6
3.0
38.6
0.3
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
15.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
37.1
0.4
42.0
3.0
38.6
0.3
Queue Length 50th (ft)
140
0
288
28
89
0
Queue Length 95th (ft)
212
0
#648
61
142
0
Internal Link Dist (ft)
592
325
Turn Bay Length (ft)
200
250
300
Base Capacity (vph)
1763
1583
925
3478
950
1583
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
182
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.32
0.25
1.00
0.16
0.38
0.22
Intersection Summary
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

--- page 319 ---
Queues
Baseline PM
3: SR 92 EB Off Ramp/SR 92 EB On Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/06/2020
Baseline PM Peak Hour Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Page 3
Lane Group
EBT
WBT
NBL
NBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
921
1361
232
446
v/c Ratio
0.26
0.55
0.66
0.76
Control Delay
2.4
5.6
34.2
15.6
Queue Delay
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
2.4
5.8
34.2
15.6
Queue Length 50th (ft)
19
86
94
40
Queue Length 95th (ft)
47
153
140
117
Internal Link Dist (ft)
325
270
Turn Bay Length (ft)
400
Base Capacity (vph)
3587
2467
568
739
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
357
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.26
0.65
0.41
0.60
Intersection Summary

--- page 320 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
                        Project # 24837 
November 2020 
                 Page | 52 
 
 
Appendix D: Baseline with Project Conditions Synchro Worksheets

--- page 321 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Baseline+Project AM
1: Hillsdale Blvd & Campus Dr
10/02/2020
Baseline+Project AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
WBT
WBR
SBL
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
242
596
827
25
37
206
Future Volume (veh/h)
242
596
827
25
37
206
Number
5
2
6
16
7
14
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1863
1863
1863
1900
1863
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
242
596
827
25
37
80
Adj No. of Lanes
2
2
2
0
1
1
Peak Hour Factor
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
406
2961
2390
72
146
317
Arrive On Green
0.04
0.28
0.68
0.68
0.08
0.08
Sat Flow, veh/h
3442
3632
3601
106
1774
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
242
596
417
435
37
80
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1721
1770
1770
1844
1774
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
5.5
10.3
7.9
7.9
1.6
3.4
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
5.5
10.3
7.9
7.9
1.6
3.4
Prop In Lane
1.00
0.06
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
406
2961
1206
1256
146
317
V/C Ratio(X)
0.60
0.20
0.35
0.35
0.25
0.25
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
1420
2961
1206
1256
266
424
HCM Platoon Ratio
0.33
0.33
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.92
0.92
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
36.6
8.5
5.3
5.3
34.4
27.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.5
0.1
0.8
0.8
0.3
0.2
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
2.7
5.1
4.1
4.2
0.8
3.2
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
37.1
8.6
6.1
6.1
34.8
27.1
LnGrp LOS
D
A
A
A
C
C
Approach Vol, veh/h
838
852
117
Approach Delay, s/veh
16.8
6.1
29.5
Approach LOS
B
A
C
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
4
5
6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
70.4
9.6
12.4
58.0
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.0
4.5
4.5
5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
60.0
10.5
31.5
24.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
12.3
5.4
7.5
9.9
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
6.9
0.1
0.4
6.2
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
12.6
HCM 2010 LOS
B

--- page 322 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Baseline+Project AM
2: SR 92 WB On Ramp/SR 92 WB Off Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/02/2020
Baseline+Project AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
0
322
175
630
965
0
0
0
0
321
0
780
Future Volume (veh/h)
0
322
175
630
965
0
0
0
0
321
0
780
Number
5
2
12
1
6
16
7
4
14
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
0
1863
1863
1863
1863
0
1863
0
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
0
350
0
685
1049
0
349
0
0
Adj No. of Lanes
0
2
1
1
2
0
2
0
1
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
2
2
2
2
0
2
0
2
Cap, veh/h
0
805
360
764
2574
0
564
0
259
Arrive On Green
0.00
0.23
0.00
0.43
0.73
0.00
0.16
0.00
0.00
Sat Flow, veh/h
0
3632
1583
1774
3632
0
3442
0
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
0
350
0
685
1049
0
349
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
0
1770
1583
1774
1770
0
1721
0
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
4.3
0.0
18.1
5.8
0.0
4.8
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
4.3
0.0
18.1
5.8
0.0
4.8
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
0
805
360
764
2574
0
564
0
259
V/C Ratio(X)
0.00
0.43
0.00
0.90
0.41
0.00
0.62
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
0
2836
1269
1492
2574
0
1532
0
705
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
16.7
0.0
13.4
2.7
0.0
19.7
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.0
0.1
0.0
1.6
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.0
2.1
0.0
9.1
2.8
0.0
2.3
0.0
0.0
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.0
16.9
0.0
14.9
2.7
0.0
20.1
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
B
B
A
C
Approach Vol, veh/h
350
1734
349
Approach Delay, s/veh
16.9
7.5
20.1
Approach LOS
B
A
C
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
1
2
4
6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
25.3
15.0
10.3
40.3
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.0
* 5
3.5
5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
41.0
* 39
21.0
35.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
20.1
6.3
6.8
7.8
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.2
0.5
0.1
1.5
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
10.7
HCM 2010 LOS
B
Notes

--- page 323 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Baseline+Project AM
3: SR 92 EB Off Ramp/SR 92 EB On Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/02/2020
Baseline+Project AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
0
411
231
0
786
273
761
0
610
0
0
0
Future Volume (veh/h)
0
411
231
0
786
273
761
0
610
0
0
0
Number
5
2
12
1
6
16
3
8
18
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
0
1863
1900
0
1863
1900
1863
0
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
0
433
0
0
827
287
801
0
501
Adj No. of Lanes
0
3
0
0
2
0
1
0
1
Peak Hour Factor
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
2
2
0
2
2
2
0
2
Cap, veh/h
0
2340
0
0
1187
412
847
0
756
Arrive On Green
0.00
0.46
0.00
0.00
0.15
0.15
0.48
0.00
0.48
Sat Flow, veh/h
0
5421
0
0
2673
894
1774
0
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
0
433
0
0
567
547
801
0
501
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
0
1695
0
0
1770
1705
1774
0
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
4.0
0.0
0.0
24.3
24.4
34.4
0.0
19.4
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
4.0
0.0
0.0
24.3
24.4
34.4
0.0
19.4
Prop In Lane
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.52
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
0
2340
0
0
814
785
847
0
756
V/C Ratio(X)
0.00
0.19
0.00
0.00
0.70
0.70
0.95
0.00
0.66
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
0
2340
0
0
814
785
942
0
841
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.33
0.33
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.00
0.77
0.00
0.00
0.92
0.92
1.00
0.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
12.7
0.0
0.0
28.6
28.6
19.9
0.0
16.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.0
0.1
0.0
0.0
4.5
4.7
16.2
0.0
1.2
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.0
1.9
0.0
0.0
12.9
12.5
20.5
0.0
8.6
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.0
12.9
0.0
0.0
33.1
33.3
36.1
0.0
17.2
LnGrp LOS
B
C
C
D
B
Approach Vol, veh/h
433
1114
1302
Approach Delay, s/veh
12.9
33.2
28.8
Approach LOS
B
C
C
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
39.8
39.8
40.2
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.5
4.5
3.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
31.0
31.0
41.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
6.0
26.4
36.4
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.7
0.9
0.3
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
28.1
HCM 2010 LOS
C

--- page 324 ---
HCM 2010 AWSC
Baseline+Project AM
4: Hillsdale Blvd & Alameda de Las Pulgas
10/02/2020
Baseline+Project AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
95.9
Intersection LOS
F
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
108
359
29
110
457
137
66
242
117
96
164
72
Future Vol, veh/h
108
359
29
110
457
137
66
242
117
96
164
72
Peak Hour Factor
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
123
408
33
125
519
156
75
275
133
109
186
82
Number of Lanes
0
2
0
0
2
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
Approach
SE
NW
NE
SW
Opposing Approach
NW
SE
SW
NE
Opposing Lanes
2
2
1
1
Conflicting Approach Left
SW
NE
SE
NW
Conflicting Lanes Left
1
1
2
2
Conflicting Approach Right
NE
SW
NW
SE
Conflicting Lanes Right
1
1
2
2
HCM Control Delay
46.9
98.4
162
79.2
HCM LOS
E
F
F
F
        
Lane
NELn1 NWLn1 NWLn2
SELn1
SELn2 SWLn1
Vol Left, %
16%
32%
0%
38%
0%
29%
Vol Thru, %
57%
68%
63%
62%
86%
49%
Vol Right, %
28%
0%
37%
0%
14%
22%
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane
425
339
366
288
209
332
LT Vol
66
110
0
108
0
96
Through Vol
242
229
229
180
180
164
RT Vol
117
0
137
0
29
72
Lane Flow Rate
483
385
415
327
237
377
Geometry Grp
2
7
7
7
7
2
Degree of Util (X)
1.252
1.043
1.077
0.897
0.631
0.991
Departure Headway (Hd)
9.568
10.585
10.135
10.668
10.366
10.321
Convergence, Y/N
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Cap
382
346
361
343
351
355
Service Time
7.568
8.285
7.835
8.368
8.066
8.321
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
1.264
1.113
1.15
0.953
0.675
1.062
HCM Control Delay
162
94.1
102.4
59.8
29.2
79.2
HCM Lane LOS
F
F
F
F
D
F
HCM 95th-tile Q
20.5
12.5
13.8
8.7
4.1
11.2

--- page 325 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Baseline+Project PM
1: Hillsdale Blvd & Campus Dr
10/02/2020
Baseline+Project PM Peak Hour Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Page 1
Movement
EBL
EBT
WBT
WBR
SBL
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
261
967
585
69
87
370
Future Volume (veh/h)
261
967
585
69
87
370
Number
5
2
6
16
7
14
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1863
1863
1863
1900
1863
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
261
967
585
69
87
244
Adj No. of Lanes
2
2
2
0
1
1
Peak Hour Factor
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
435
2580
1786
210
316
482
Arrive On Green
0.13
0.73
0.56
0.56
0.18
0.18
Sat Flow, veh/h
3442
3632
3284
376
1774
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
261
967
324
330
87
244
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1721
1770
1770
1796
1774
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
5.0
7.1
6.9
6.9
3.0
8.9
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
5.0
7.1
6.9
6.9
3.0
8.9
Prop In Lane
1.00
0.21
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
435
2580
990
1005
316
482
V/C Ratio(X)
0.60
0.37
0.33
0.33
0.28
0.51
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
983
2580
990
1005
355
517
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.88
0.88
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
28.9
3.5
8.3
8.3
24.9
20.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.4
0.4
0.9
0.9
0.2
0.3
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
2.4
3.5
3.6
3.6
1.5
8.0
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
29.3
3.9
9.2
9.2
25.0
20.3
LnGrp LOS
C
A
A
A
C
C
Approach Vol, veh/h
1228
654
331
Approach Delay, s/veh
9.3
9.2
21.6
Approach LOS
A
A
C
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
4
5
6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
54.5
15.5
11.9
42.7
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.0
4.5
4.5
5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
48.0
12.5
18.5
25.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
9.1
10.9
7.0
8.9
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
12.4
0.1
0.4
5.0
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
11.1
HCM 2010 LOS
B

--- page 326 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Baseline+Project PM
2: SR 92 WB On Ramp/SR 92 WB Off Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/02/2020
Baseline+Project PM Peak Hour Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Page 2
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
0
523
354
646
477
0
0
0
0
341
0
317
Future Volume (veh/h)
0
523
354
646
477
0
0
0
0
341
0
317
Number
5
2
12
1
6
16
7
4
14
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
0
1863
1863
1863
1863
0
1863
0
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
0
575
0
710
524
0
375
0
0
Adj No. of Lanes
0
2
1
1
2
0
2
0
1
Peak Hour Factor
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
2
2
2
2
0
2
0
2
Cap, veh/h
0
810
362
781
2594
0
573
0
264
Arrive On Green
0.00
0.23
0.00
0.44
0.73
0.00
0.17
0.00
0.00
Sat Flow, veh/h
0
3632
1583
1774
3632
0
3442
0
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
0
575
0
710
524
0
375
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
0
1770
1583
1774
1770
0
1721
0
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
8.2
0.0
20.5
2.5
0.0
5.6
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
8.2
0.0
20.5
2.5
0.0
5.6
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
0
810
362
781
2594
0
573
0
264
V/C Ratio(X)
0.00
0.71
0.00
0.91
0.20
0.00
0.65
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
0
2617
1171
1377
2594
0
1414
0
650
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
19.4
0.0
14.3
2.3
0.0
21.3
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.0
0.4
0.0
2.4
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.0
4.0
0.0
10.4
1.2
0.0
2.7
0.0
0.0
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.0
19.9
0.0
16.7
2.3
0.0
21.8
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
B
B
A
C
Approach Vol, veh/h
575
1234
375
Approach Delay, s/veh
19.9
10.6
21.8
Approach LOS
B
B
C
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
1
2
4
6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
27.6
16.0
11.1
43.6
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.0
* 5
3.5
5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
41.0
* 39
21.0
35.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
22.5
10.2
7.6
4.5
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.2
0.8
0.1
0.7
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
15.0
HCM 2010 LOS
B
Notes

--- page 327 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Baseline+Project PM
3: SR 92 EB Off Ramp/SR 92 EB On Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/02/2020
Baseline+Project PM Peak Hour Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Page 4
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
0
548
356
0
859
357
220
0
681
0
0
0
Future Volume (veh/h)
0
548
356
0
859
357
220
0
681
0
0
0
Number
5
2
12
1
6
16
3
8
18
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
0
1863
1900
0
1863
1900
1863
0
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
0
577
0
0
904
376
232
0
509
Adj No. of Lanes
0
3
0
0
2
0
1
0
1
Peak Hour Factor
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
2
2
0
2
2
2
0
2
Cap, veh/h
0
3088
0
0
1484
613
570
0
509
Arrive On Green
0.00
0.61
0.00
0.00
0.61
0.61
0.32
0.00
0.32
Sat Flow, veh/h
0
5421
0
0
2538
1010
1774
0
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
0
577
0
0
653
627
232
0
509
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
0
1695
0
0
1770
1685
1774
0
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
3.5
0.0
0.0
16.1
16.3
7.1
0.0
22.5
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
3.5
0.0
0.0
16.1
16.3
7.1
0.0
22.5
Prop In Lane
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.60
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
0
3088
0
0
1074
1023
570
0
509
V/C Ratio(X)
0.00
0.19
0.00
0.00
0.61
0.61
0.41
0.00
1.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
0
3088
0
0
1074
1023
570
0
509
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.00
0.62
0.00
0.00
0.91
0.91
1.00
0.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
6.1
0.0
0.0
8.6
8.6
18.5
0.0
23.8
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.0
0.1
0.0
0.0
2.3
2.5
0.2
0.0
39.9
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.0
1.6
0.0
0.0
8.3
8.2
3.5
0.0
15.4
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.0
6.2
0.0
0.0
10.9
11.1
18.7
0.0
63.7
LnGrp LOS
A
B
B
B
F
Approach Vol, veh/h
577
1280
741
Approach Delay, s/veh
6.2
11.0
49.6
Approach LOS
A
B
D
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
45.5
45.5
24.5
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.5
4.5
3.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
41.0
41.0
21.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
5.5
18.3
24.5
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.9
1.6
0.0
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
20.9
HCM 2010 LOS
C

--- page 328 ---
HCM 2010 AWSC
Baseline+Project PM
4: Hillsdale Blvd & Alameda de Las Pulgas
10/02/2020
Baseline+Project PM Peak Hour Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Page 5
Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
80.9
Intersection LOS
F
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
140
405
44
135
369
80
31
295
121
110
195
64
Future Vol, veh/h
140
405
44
135
369
80
31
295
121
110
195
64
Peak Hour Factor
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
146
422
46
141
384
83
32
307
126
115
203
67
Number of Lanes
0
2
0
0
2
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
Approach
SE
NW
NE
SW
Opposing Approach
NW
SE
SW
NE
Opposing Lanes
2
2
1
1
Conflicting Approach Left
SW
NE
SE
NW
Conflicting Lanes Left
1
1
2
2
Conflicting Approach Right
NE
SW
NW
SE
Conflicting Lanes Right
1
1
2
2
HCM Control Delay
57.9
50.6
148.6
83.7
HCM LOS
F
F
F
F
        
Lane
NELn1 NWLn1 NWLn2
SELn1
SELn2 SWLn1
Vol Left, %
7%
42%
0%
41%
0%
30%
Vol Thru, %
66%
58%
70%
59%
82%
53%
Vol Right, %
27%
0%
30%
0%
18%
17%
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane
447
320
265
343
247
369
LT Vol
31
135
0
140
0
110
Through Vol
295
185
185
203
203
195
RT Vol
121
0
80
0
44
64
Lane Flow Rate
466
333
276
357
257
384
Geometry Grp
2
7
7
7
7
2
Degree of Util (X)
1.216
0.914
0.724
0.976
0.679
1.009
Departure Headway (Hd)
9.627
10.668
10.22
10.622
10.274
10.285
Convergence, Y/N
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Cap
382
343
355
342
354
357
Service Time
7.627
8.368
7.92
8.322
7.974
8.285
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
1.22
0.971
0.777
1.044
0.726
1.076
HCM Control Delay
148.6
63
35.6
76.4
32.2
83.7
HCM Lane LOS
F
F
E
F
D
F
HCM 95th-tile Q
19
9.1
5.4
10.6
4.7
11.7

--- page 329 ---
Queues
Baseline+Project AM
1: Hillsdale Blvd & Campus Dr
10/06/2020
Baseline+Project AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBL
EBT
WBT
SBL
SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
242
596
852
37
206
v/c Ratio
0.49
0.22
0.40
0.15
0.39
Control Delay
34.3
2.0
9.8
31.4
19.1
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.3
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
34.3
2.0
10.1
31.4
19.1
Queue Length 50th (ft)
56
23
111
16
64
Queue Length 95th (ft)
91
33
167
43
113
Internal Link Dist (ft)
270
767
1297
Turn Bay Length (ft)
155
150
150
Base Capacity (vph)
1416
2764
2110
265
936
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
593
0
5
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.17
0.22
0.56
0.14
0.22
Intersection Summary

--- page 330 ---
Queues
Baseline+Project AM
2: SR 92 WB On Ramp/SR 92 WB Off Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/06/2020
Baseline+Project AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
SBL
SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
350
190
685
1049
349
848
v/c Ratio
0.59
0.12
0.70
0.39
0.61
0.54
Control Delay
34.0
0.2
18.6
3.9
34.4
1.3
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
2.6
0.1
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
34.0
0.2
21.2
4.0
34.4
1.3
Queue Length 50th (ft)
77
0
203
61
76
0
Queue Length 95th (ft)
135
0
449
135
125
0
Internal Link Dist (ft)
592
325
Turn Bay Length (ft)
200
250
300
Base Capacity (vph)
1901
1583
998
3535
1024
1583
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
196
964
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.18
0.12
0.85
0.41
0.34
0.54
Intersection Summary

--- page 331 ---
Queues
Baseline+Project AM
3: SR 92 EB Off Ramp/SR 92 EB On Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/06/2020
Baseline+Project AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBT
WBT
NBL
NBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
676
1114
801
501
v/c Ratio
0.30
0.75
0.91
0.54
Control Delay
10.6
22.4
33.8
7.7
Queue Delay
0.0
3.1
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
10.6
25.4
33.8
7.7
Queue Length 50th (ft)
53
271
323
59
Queue Length 95th (ft)
80
361
#562
133
Internal Link Dist (ft)
325
270
Turn Bay Length (ft)
400
Base Capacity (vph)
2230
1492
940
968
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
270
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.30
0.91
0.85
0.52
Intersection Summary
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

--- page 332 ---
Queues
Baseline+Project PM
1: Hillsdale Blvd & Campus Dr
10/06/2020
Baseline+Project PM Peak Hour Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Page 1
Lane Group
EBL
EBT
WBT
SBL
SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
261
967
654
87
370
v/c Ratio
0.48
0.37
0.36
0.28
0.54
Control Delay
29.1
3.9
11.1
26.6
12.4
Queue Delay
0.0
0.2
0.1
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
29.1
4.2
11.2
26.6
12.4
Queue Length 50th (ft)
51
84
84
32
66
Queue Length 95th (ft)
m82
66
132
68
127
Internal Link Dist (ft)
270
767
1297
Turn Bay Length (ft)
155
150
150
Base Capacity (vph)
980
2587
1840
354
866
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
815
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
197
0
8
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.27
0.55
0.40
0.25
0.43
Intersection Summary
m    Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

--- page 333 ---
Queues
Baseline+Project PM
2: SR 92 WB On Ramp/SR 92 WB Off Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/06/2020
Baseline+Project PM Peak Hour Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Page 2
Lane Group
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
SBL
SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
575
389
710
524
375
348
v/c Ratio
0.75
0.25
0.78
0.19
0.67
0.22
Control Delay
37.3
0.4
25.7
3.0
39.4
0.3
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
11.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
37.3
0.4
37.0
3.0
39.4
0.3
Queue Length 50th (ft)
145
0
277
28
94
0
Queue Length 95th (ft)
218
0
#615
58
150
0
Internal Link Dist (ft)
592
325
Turn Bay Length (ft)
200
250
300
Base Capacity (vph)
1742
1583
914
3467
939
1583
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
186
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.33
0.25
0.98
0.15
0.40
0.22
Intersection Summary
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

--- page 334 ---
Queues
Baseline+Project PM
3: SR 92 EB Off Ramp/SR 92 EB On Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/06/2020
Baseline+Project PM Peak Hour Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Page 3
Lane Group
EBT
WBT
NBL
NBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
952
1280
232
509
v/c Ratio
0.27
0.54
0.58
0.84
Control Delay
3.1
6.7
28.7
22.4
Queue Delay
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
3.1
6.8
28.7
22.4
Queue Length 50th (ft)
23
102
91
76
Queue Length 95th (ft)
60
293
126
159
Internal Link Dist (ft)
325
270
Turn Bay Length (ft)
400
Base Capacity (vph)
3512
2406
583
735
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
361
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.27
0.63
0.40
0.69
Intersection Summary

--- page 335 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
                        Project # 24837 
November 2020 
                 Page | 53 
 
 
Appendix E: Cumulative Conditions Synchro Worksheets

--- page 336 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Cumulative AM
1: Hillsdale Blvd & Campus Dr
10/02/2020
Cumulative AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
WBT
WBR
SBL
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
360
828
975
51
25
152
Future Volume (veh/h)
360
828
975
51
25
152
Number
5
2
6
16
7
14
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1863
1863
1863
1900
1863
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
360
828
975
51
25
26
Adj No. of Lanes
2
2
2
0
1
1
Peak Hour Factor
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
533
3035
2277
119
108
342
Arrive On Green
0.05
0.28
0.67
0.67
0.06
0.06
Sat Flow, veh/h
3442
3632
3515
179
1774
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
360
828
504
522
25
26
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1721
1770
1770
1831
1774
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
8.2
14.5
10.7
10.7
1.1
1.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
8.2
14.5
10.7
10.7
1.1
1.0
Prop In Lane
1.00
0.10
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
533
3035
1177
1218
108
342
V/C Ratio(X)
0.68
0.27
0.43
0.43
0.23
0.08
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
1420
3035
1177
1218
266
483
HCM Platoon Ratio
0.33
0.33
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.76
0.76
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
36.0
9.3
6.3
6.3
35.8
25.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.4
0.2
1.1
1.1
0.4
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
4.0
7.2
5.6
5.7
0.5
1.0
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
36.4
9.5
7.4
7.4
36.2
25.0
LnGrp LOS
D
A
A
A
D
C
Approach Vol, veh/h
1188
1026
51
Approach Delay, s/veh
17.6
7.4
30.5
Approach LOS
B
A
C
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
4
5
6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
72.1
7.9
15.4
56.7
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.0
4.5
4.5
5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
60.0
10.5
31.5
24.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
16.5
3.1
10.2
12.7
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
10.3
0.0
0.7
6.4
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
13.3
HCM 2010 LOS
B

--- page 337 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Cumulative AM
2: SR 92 WB On Ramp/SR 92 WB Off Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/02/2020
Cumulative AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
0
422
175
669
1070
0
0
0
0
426
0
780
Future Volume (veh/h)
0
422
175
669
1070
0
0
0
0
426
0
780
Number
5
2
12
1
6
16
7
4
14
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
0
1863
1863
1863
1863
0
1863
0
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
0
459
0
727
1163
0
463
0
0
Adj No. of Lanes
0
2
1
1
2
0
2
0
1
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
2
2
2
2
0
2
0
2
Cap, veh/h
0
720
322
795
2525
0
652
0
300
Arrive On Green
0.00
0.20
0.00
0.45
0.71
0.00
0.19
0.00
0.00
Sat Flow, veh/h
0
3632
1583
1774
3632
0
3442
0
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
0
459
0
727
1163
0
463
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
0
1770
1583
1774
1770
0
1721
0
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
6.7
0.0
21.7
7.9
0.0
7.1
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
6.7
0.0
21.7
7.9
0.0
7.1
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
0
720
322
795
2525
0
652
0
300
V/C Ratio(X)
0.00
0.64
0.00
0.91
0.46
0.00
0.71
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
0
2536
1134
1334
2525
0
1370
0
630
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
20.6
0.0
14.6
3.5
0.0
21.5
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.0
0.4
0.0
3.6
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.0
3.3
0.0
11.3
3.7
0.0
3.4
0.0
0.0
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.0
21.0
0.0
18.2
3.5
0.0
22.0
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
C
B
A
C
Approach Vol, veh/h
459
1890
463
Approach Delay, s/veh
21.0
9.2
22.0
Approach LOS
C
A
C
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
1
2
4
6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
28.8
15.0
12.7
43.8
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.0
* 5
3.5
5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
41.0
* 39
21.0
35.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
23.7
8.7
9.1
9.9
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.2
0.7
0.1
1.7
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
13.2
HCM 2010 LOS
B
Notes

--- page 338 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Cumulative AM
3: SR 92 EB Off Ramp/SR 92 EB On Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/02/2020
Cumulative AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
0
570
231
0
809
347
884
0
801
0
0
0
Future Volume (veh/h)
0
570
231
0
809
347
884
0
801
0
0
0
Number
5
2
12
1
6
16
3
8
18
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
0
1863
1900
0
1863
1900
1863
0
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
0
600
0
0
852
365
931
0
767
Adj No. of Lanes
0
3
0
0
2
0
1
0
1
Peak Hour Factor
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
2
2
0
2
2
2
0
2
Cap, veh/h
0
2066
0
0
983
419
942
0
841
Arrive On Green
0.00
0.41
0.00
0.00
0.13
0.13
0.53
0.00
0.53
Sat Flow, veh/h
0
5421
0
0
2512
1032
1774
0
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
0
600
0
0
622
595
931
0
767
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
0
1695
0
0
1770
1681
1774
0
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
6.4
0.0
0.0
27.6
27.8
41.4
0.0
35.2
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
6.4
0.0
0.0
27.6
27.8
41.4
0.0
35.2
Prop In Lane
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.61
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
0
2066
0
0
719
683
942
0
841
V/C Ratio(X)
0.00
0.29
0.00
0.00
0.87
0.87
0.99
0.00
0.91
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
0
2066
0
0
719
683
942
0
841
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.33
0.33
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.00
0.64
0.00
0.00
0.87
0.87
1.00
0.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
16.0
0.0
0.0
32.5
32.6
18.5
0.0
17.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
11.8
12.7
26.2
0.0
13.8
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.0
3.0
0.0
0.0
15.8
15.4
26.8
0.0
18.3
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.0
16.2
0.0
0.0
44.3
45.3
44.7
0.0
30.8
LnGrp LOS
B
D
D
D
C
Approach Vol, veh/h
600
1217
1698
Approach Delay, s/veh
16.2
44.8
38.4
Approach LOS
B
D
D
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
35.5
35.5
44.5
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.5
4.5
3.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
31.0
31.0
41.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
8.4
29.8
43.4
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.9
0.4
0.0
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
36.8
HCM 2010 LOS
D

--- page 339 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Cumulative AM
4: Hillsdale Blvd & Alameda de Las Pulgas
10/02/2020
Cumulative AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
108
579
37
192
660
165
95
239
250
142
177
74
Future Volume (veh/h)
108
579
37
192
660
165
95
239
250
142
177
74
Number
1
6
16
5
2
12
7
4
14
3
8
18
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1863
1863
1900
1863
1863
1900
1863
1863
1900
1863
1863
1900
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
123
658
42
218
750
188
108
272
284
161
201
84
Adj No. of Lanes
1
2
0
1
2
0
1
1
0
1
1
0
Peak Hour Factor
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
268
1352
86
350
1122
281
472
334
349
256
500
209
Arrive On Green
0.40
0.40
0.43
0.40
0.40
0.43
0.40
0.40
0.43
0.40
0.40
0.43
Sat Flow, veh/h
595
3379
215
743
2805
703
1090
836
873
849
1249
522
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
123
344
356
218
473
465
108
0
556
161
0
285
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
595
1770
1825
743
1770
1739
1090
0
1709
849
0
1771
Q Serve(g_s), s
8.1
6.5
6.5
11.5
9.9
9.8
3.5
0.0
12.9
5.1
0.0
5.1
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
18.0
6.5
6.5
18.0
9.9
9.8
8.7
0.0
12.9
18.0
0.0
5.1
Prop In Lane
1.00
0.12
1.00
0.40
1.00
0.51
1.00
0.29
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
268
708
730
350
708
695
472
0
683
256
0
708
V/C Ratio(X)
0.46
0.49
0.49
0.62
0.67
0.67
0.23
0.00
0.81
0.63
0.00
0.40
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
268
708
730
350
708
695
472
0
683
256
0
708
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
18.9
10.1
10.0
17.5
11.1
10.8
12.7
0.0
11.6
21.0
0.0
9.5
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
5.6
2.4
2.3
8.1
5.0
5.0
1.1
0.0
10.2
11.2
0.0
1.7
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
1.9
3.6
3.7
3.5
5.7
5.6
1.2
0.0
7.9
2.8
0.0
2.8
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
24.5
12.4
12.3
25.7
16.0
15.8
13.9
0.0
21.9
32.2
0.0
11.2
LnGrp LOS
C
B
B
C
B
B
B
C
C
B
Approach Vol, veh/h
823
1156
664
446
Approach Delay, s/veh
14.2
17.8
20.6
18.8
Approach LOS
B
B
C
B
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
22.5
22.5
22.5
22.5
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.5
4.5
4.5
4.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
18.0
18.0
18.0
18.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
20.0
14.9
20.0
20.0
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.0
1.3
0.0
0.0
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
17.6
HCM 2010 LOS
B

--- page 340 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Cumulative PM
1: Hillsdale Blvd & Campus Dr
10/02/2020
Cumulative PM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
WBT
WBR
SBL
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
225
1194
844
64
106
458
Future Volume (veh/h)
225
1194
844
64
106
458
Number
5
2
6
16
7
14
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1863
1863
1863
1900
1863
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
225
1194
844
64
106
332
Adj No. of Lanes
2
2
2
0
1
1
Peak Hour Factor
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
401
2503
1827
139
355
501
Arrive On Green
0.08
0.47
0.55
0.55
0.20
0.20
Sat Flow, veh/h
3442
3632
3428
253
1774
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
225
1194
448
460
106
332
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1721
1770
1770
1818
1774
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
4.4
16.1
10.7
10.7
3.6
12.7
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
4.4
16.1
10.7
10.7
3.6
12.7
Prop In Lane
1.00
0.14
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
401
2503
970
996
355
501
V/C Ratio(X)
0.56
0.48
0.46
0.46
0.30
0.66
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
983
2503
970
996
355
501
HCM Platoon Ratio
0.67
0.67
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.82
0.82
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
30.5
9.6
9.6
9.6
23.8
20.7
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.4
0.5
1.6
1.5
0.2
2.6
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
2.1
8.0
5.7
5.8
1.8
11.1
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
30.9
10.2
11.2
11.1
24.0
23.3
LnGrp LOS
C
B
B
B
C
C
Approach Vol, veh/h
1419
908
438
Approach Delay, s/veh
13.4
11.1
23.5
Approach LOS
B
B
C
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
4
5
6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
53.0
17.0
11.1
41.9
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.0
4.5
4.5
5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
48.0
12.5
18.5
25.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
18.1
14.7
6.4
12.7
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
14.6
0.0
0.3
6.1
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
14.3
HCM 2010 LOS
B

--- page 341 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Cumulative PM
2: SR 92 WB On Ramp/SR 92 WB Off Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/02/2020
Cumulative PM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
0
697
428
935
548
0
0
0
0
394
0
317
Future Volume (veh/h)
0
697
428
935
548
0
0
0
0
394
0
317
Number
5
2
12
1
6
16
7
4
14
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
0
1863
1863
1863
1863
0
1863
0
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
0
766
0
1027
602
0
433
0
0
Adj No. of Lanes
0
2
1
1
2
0
2
0
1
Peak Hour Factor
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
2
2
2
2
0
2
0
2
Cap, veh/h
0
911
408
851
2749
0
554
0
255
Arrive On Green
0.00
0.26
0.00
0.48
0.78
0.00
0.16
0.00
0.00
Sat Flow, veh/h
0
3632
1583
1774
3632
0
3442
0
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
0
766
0
1027
602
0
433
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
0
1770
1583
1774
1770
0
1721
0
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
18.2
0.0
42.5
4.1
0.0
10.7
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
18.2
0.0
42.5
4.1
0.0
10.7
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
0
911
408
851
2749
0
554
0
255
V/C Ratio(X)
0.00
0.84
0.00
1.21
0.22
0.00
0.78
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
0
1618
724
851
2749
0
874
0
402
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
31.2
0.0
23.0
2.7
0.0
35.6
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.0
0.8
0.0
103.9
0.0
0.0
0.9
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.0
8.9
0.0
45.1
1.9
0.0
5.1
0.0
0.0
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.0
32.0
0.0
126.9
2.7
0.0
36.6
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
C
F
A
D
Approach Vol, veh/h
766
1629
433
Approach Delay, s/veh
32.0
81.0
36.6
Approach LOS
C
F
D
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
1
2
4
6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
46.0
26.3
16.3
72.3
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.0
* 5
3.5
5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
41.0
* 39
21.0
35.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
44.5
20.2
12.7
6.1
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.0
1.1
0.1
0.8
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
60.9
HCM 2010 LOS
E
Notes

--- page 342 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Cumulative PM
3: SR 92 EB Off Ramp/SR 92 EB On Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/02/2020
Cumulative PM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
0
783
356
0
1156
414
276
0
652
0
0
0
Future Volume (veh/h)
0
783
356
0
1156
414
276
0
652
0
0
0
Number
5
2
12
1
6
16
3
8
18
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
0
1863
1900
0
1863
1900
1863
0
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
0
824
0
0
1217
436
291
0
556
Adj No. of Lanes
0
3
0
0
2
0
1
0
1
Peak Hour Factor
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
2
2
0
2
2
2
0
2
Cap, veh/h
0
3088
0
0
1565
545
570
0
509
Arrive On Green
0.00
0.61
0.00
0.00
0.20
0.20
0.32
0.00
0.32
Sat Flow, veh/h
0
5421
0
0
2670
897
1774
0
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
0
824
0
0
824
829
291
0
556
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
0
1695
0
0
1770
1704
1774
0
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
5.3
0.0
0.0
30.8
32.4
9.3
0.0
22.5
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
5.3
0.0
0.0
30.8
32.4
9.3
0.0
22.5
Prop In Lane
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.53
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
0
3088
0
0
1074
1035
570
0
509
V/C Ratio(X)
0.00
0.27
0.00
0.00
0.77
0.80
0.51
0.00
1.09
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
0
3088
0
0
1074
1035
570
0
509
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.33
0.33
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.00
0.53
0.00
0.00
0.79
0.79
1.00
0.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
6.4
0.0
0.0
23.3
24.0
19.3
0.0
23.8
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.0
0.1
0.0
0.0
4.2
5.2
0.3
0.0
67.4
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.0
2.5
0.0
0.0
16.4
16.8
4.6
0.0
19.3
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.0
6.6
0.0
0.0
27.5
29.2
19.6
0.0
91.2
LnGrp LOS
A
C
C
B
F
Approach Vol, veh/h
824
1653
847
Approach Delay, s/veh
6.6
28.4
66.6
Approach LOS
A
C
E
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
45.5
45.5
24.5
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.5
4.5
3.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
41.0
41.0
21.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
7.3
34.4
24.5
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
1.3
1.8
0.0
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
32.7
HCM 2010 LOS
C

--- page 343 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Cumulative PM
4: Hillsdale Blvd & Alameda de Las Pulgas
10/02/2020
Cumulative PM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
159
778
90
215
640
80
70
305
239
113
198
69
Future Volume (veh/h)
159
778
90
215
640
80
70
305
239
113
198
69
Number
1
6
16
5
2
12
7
4
14
3
8
18
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1863
1863
1900
1863
1863
1900
1863
1863
1900
1863
1863
1900
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
166
810
94
224
667
83
73
318
249
118
206
72
Adj No. of Lanes
1
2
0
1
2
0
1
1
0
1
1
0
Peak Hour Factor
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
330
1278
148
281
1268
158
478
388
304
252
528
185
Arrive On Green
0.40
0.40
0.43
0.40
0.40
0.43
0.40
0.40
0.43
0.40
0.40
0.43
Sat Flow, veh/h
709
3196
371
614
3169
394
1097
970
759
841
1320
461
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
166
448
456
224
372
378
73
0
567
118
0
278
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
709
1770
1797
614
1770
1793
1097
0
1729
841
0
1781
Q Serve(g_s), s
10.4
9.2
9.1
8.8
7.2
7.2
2.3
0.0
13.1
4.9
0.0
4.9
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
17.6
9.2
9.1
18.0
7.2
7.2
7.2
0.0
13.1
18.0
0.0
4.9
Prop In Lane
1.00
0.21
1.00
0.22
1.00
0.44
1.00
0.26
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
330
708
719
281
708
717
478
0
692
252
0
713
V/C Ratio(X)
0.50
0.63
0.63
0.80
0.53
0.53
0.15
0.00
0.82
0.47
0.00
0.39
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
330
708
719
281
708
717
478
0
692
252
0
713
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
17.0
10.8
10.7
20.1
10.3
10.1
12.1
0.0
11.7
20.6
0.0
9.4
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
5.4
4.3
4.2
20.7
2.8
2.8
0.7
0.0
10.5
6.2
0.0
1.6
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
2.5
5.2
5.3
4.4
4.0
4.0
0.8
0.0
8.1
1.9
0.0
2.7
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
22.3
15.1
14.9
40.8
13.0
12.9
12.8
0.0
22.2
26.7
0.0
11.1
LnGrp LOS
C
B
B
D
B
B
B
C
C
B
Approach Vol, veh/h
1070
974
640
396
Approach Delay, s/veh
16.2
19.4
21.2
15.7
Approach LOS
B
B
C
B
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
22.5
22.5
22.5
22.5
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.5
4.5
4.5
4.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
18.0
18.0
18.0
18.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
20.0
15.1
19.6
20.0
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.0
1.2
0.0
0.0
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
18.2
HCM 2010 LOS
B

--- page 344 ---
Queues
Cumulative AM
1: Hillsdale Blvd & Campus Dr
10/06/2020
Cumulative AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBL
EBT
WBT
SBL
SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
360
828
1026
25
152
v/c Ratio
0.58
0.30
0.51
0.11
0.27
Control Delay
36.3
2.1
12.3
30.9
16.7
Queue Delay
0.0
0.3
1.1
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
36.3
2.5
13.5
30.9
16.7
Queue Length 50th (ft)
91
26
154
11
47
Queue Length 95th (ft)
m114
m57
237
32
81
Internal Link Dist (ft)
270
767
1297
Turn Bay Length (ft)
155
150
150
Base Capacity (vph)
1416
2792
2008
265
913
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
1266
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
686
0
2
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.25
0.54
0.78
0.09
0.17
Intersection Summary
m    Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

--- page 345 ---
Queues
Cumulative AM
2: SR 92 WB On Ramp/SR 92 WB Off Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/06/2020
Cumulative AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
SBL
SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
459
190
727
1163
463
848
v/c Ratio
0.69
0.12
0.79
0.44
0.73
0.54
Control Delay
37.3
0.2
25.6
4.9
38.8
1.3
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
13.1
0.1
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
37.3
0.2
38.7
5.0
38.8
1.3
Queue Length 50th (ft)
115
0
282
93
115
0
Queue Length 95th (ft)
177
0
#607
164
175
0
Internal Link Dist (ft)
592
325
Turn Bay Length (ft)
200
250
300
Base Capacity (vph)
1759
1583
923
3492
948
1583
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
186
968
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.26
0.12
0.99
0.46
0.49
0.54
Intersection Summary
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

--- page 346 ---
Queues
Cumulative AM
3: SR 92 EB Off Ramp/SR 92 EB On Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/06/2020
Cumulative AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBT
WBT
NBL
NBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
843
1217
931
767
v/c Ratio
0.41
0.90
0.98
0.83
Control Delay
14.4
28.9
45.5
22.4
Queue Delay
0.0
47.2
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
14.4
76.0
45.5
22.4
Queue Length 50th (ft)
85
305
430
247
Queue Length 95th (ft)
117
#424
#709
#498
Internal Link Dist (ft)
325
270
Turn Bay Length (ft)
400
Base Capacity (vph)
2068
1373
949
921
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
319
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.41
1.15
0.98
0.83
Intersection Summary
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

--- page 347 ---
Queues
Cumulative AM
4: Hillsdale Blvd & Alameda de Las Pulgas
10/06/2020
Cumulative AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
SEL
SET
NWL
NWT
NEL
NET
SWL
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
123
700
218
938
108
556
161
285
v/c Ratio
0.75
0.50
0.88
0.66
0.26
0.73
0.82
0.38
Control Delay
45.8
11.3
53.2
12.7
11.1
16.4
51.0
9.4
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
45.8
11.3
53.2
12.7
11.1
16.4
51.0
9.4
Queue Length 50th (ft)
26
65
49
87
18
86
35
38
Queue Length 95th (ft)
#97
98
#148
133
43
#192
#118
79
Internal Link Dist (ft)
496
552
1829
1881
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
165
1413
248
1422
421
762
196
746
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.75
0.50
0.88
0.66
0.26
0.73
0.82
0.38
Intersection Summary
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

--- page 348 ---
Queues
Cumulative PM
1: Hillsdale Blvd & Campus Dr
10/06/2020
Cumulative PM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBL
EBT
WBT
SBL
SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
225
1194
908
106
458
v/c Ratio
0.37
0.48
0.53
0.30
0.66
Control Delay
28.3
3.8
14.8
26.6
18.6
Queue Delay
0.0
0.4
2.4
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
28.3
4.2
17.2
26.6
18.6
Queue Length 50th (ft)
48
62
125
39
141
Queue Length 95th (ft)
m61
m76
228
80
183
Internal Link Dist (ft)
270
767
1297
Turn Bay Length (ft)
155
150
150
Base Capacity (vph)
980
2507
1711
354
849
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
700
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
643
0
9
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.23
0.66
0.85
0.30
0.55
Intersection Summary
m    Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

--- page 349 ---
Queues
Cumulative PM
2: SR 92 WB On Ramp/SR 92 WB Off Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/06/2020
Cumulative PM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
SBL
SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
766
470
1027
602
433
348
v/c Ratio
0.81
0.30
1.24
0.22
0.73
0.22
Control Delay
39.5
0.5
144.6
3.5
44.2
0.3
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.9
0.1
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
39.5
0.5
145.4
3.6
44.2
0.3
Queue Length 50th (ft)
217
0
~743
40
122
0
Queue Length 95th (ft)
308
0
#1206
75
190
0
Internal Link Dist (ft)
592
325
Turn Bay Length (ft)
200
250
300
Base Capacity (vph)
1577
1583
827
3283
849
1583
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
112
1384
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.49
0.30
1.44
0.32
0.51
0.22
Intersection Summary
~    Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

--- page 350 ---
Queues
Cumulative PM
3: SR 92 EB Off Ramp/SR 92 EB On Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/06/2020
Cumulative PM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBT
WBT
NBL
NBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
1199
1653
291
556
v/c Ratio
0.38
0.78
0.55
0.92
Control Delay
5.3
12.6
24.3
38.6
Queue Delay
0.0
1.6
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
5.3
14.2
24.3
38.6
Queue Length 50th (ft)
67
327
94
144
Queue Length 95th (ft)
83
416
170
#341
Internal Link Dist (ft)
325
270
Turn Bay Length (ft)
400
Base Capacity (vph)
3182
2155
580
643
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
313
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.38
0.90
0.50
0.86
Intersection Summary
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

--- page 351 ---
Queues
Cumulative PM
4: Hillsdale Blvd & Alameda de Las Pulgas
10/06/2020
Cumulative PM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
SEL
SET
NWL
NWT
NEL
NET
SWL
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
166
904
224
750
73
567
118
278
v/c Ratio
0.73
0.64
1.35
0.53
0.17
0.77
0.63
0.37
Control Delay
36.5
13.0
214.2
11.5
10.0
19.7
31.4
9.6
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
36.5
13.0
214.2
11.5
10.0
19.7
31.4
9.6
Queue Length 50th (ft)
34
89
~80
68
11
102
23
39
Queue Length 95th (ft)
#118
137
#181
108
31
#248
#89
81
Internal Link Dist (ft)
496
552
1829
1881
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
226
1413
166
1412
428
739
188
744
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.73
0.64
1.35
0.53
0.17
0.77
0.63
0.37
Intersection Summary
~    Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

--- page 352 ---
Peninsula Heights Transportation Impact Analysis – Final 
                        Project # 24837 
November 2020 
                 Page | 54 
 
 
Appendix F: Cumulative with Project Conditions Synchro Worksheets

--- page 353 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Cumulative+Project AM
1: Hillsdale Blvd & Campus Dr
10/02/2020
Cumulative+Project AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
WBT
WBR
SBL
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
256
828
975
25
39
210
Future Volume (veh/h)
256
828
975
25
39
210
Number
5
2
6
16
7
14
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1863
1863
1863
1900
1863
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
256
828
975
25
39
84
Adj No. of Lanes
2
2
2
0
1
1
Peak Hour Factor
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
421
2953
2378
61
150
327
Arrive On Green
0.04
0.28
0.67
0.67
0.08
0.08
Sat Flow, veh/h
3442
3632
3619
90
1774
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
256
828
489
511
39
84
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1721
1770
1770
1847
1774
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
5.9
14.7
10.0
10.0
1.6
3.6
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
5.9
14.7
10.0
10.0
1.6
3.6
Prop In Lane
1.00
0.05
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
421
2953
1194
1246
150
327
V/C Ratio(X)
0.61
0.28
0.41
0.41
0.26
0.26
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
1420
2953
1194
1246
266
431
HCM Platoon Ratio
0.33
0.33
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.81
0.81
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
36.5
10.1
5.9
5.9
34.3
26.6
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.4
0.2
1.0
1.0
0.3
0.2
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
2.8
7.3
5.1
5.3
0.8
3.3
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
36.9
10.3
6.9
6.9
34.6
26.7
LnGrp LOS
D
B
A
A
C
C
Approach Vol, veh/h
1084
1000
123
Approach Delay, s/veh
16.6
6.9
29.2
Approach LOS
B
A
C
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
4
5
6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
70.2
9.8
12.8
57.5
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.0
4.5
4.5
5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
60.0
10.5
31.5
24.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
16.7
5.6
7.9
12.0
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
10.3
0.1
0.5
6.5
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
12.9
HCM 2010 LOS
B

--- page 354 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Cumulative+Project AM
2: SR 92 WB On Ramp/SR 92 WB Off Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/02/2020
Cumulative+Project AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
0
396
175
691
1084
0
0
0
0
400
0
780
Future Volume (veh/h)
0
396
175
691
1084
0
0
0
0
400
0
780
Number
5
2
12
1
6
16
7
4
14
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
0
1863
1863
1863
1863
0
1863
0
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
0
430
0
751
1178
0
435
0
0
Adj No. of Lanes
0
2
1
1
2
0
2
0
1
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
2
2
2
2
0
2
0
2
Cap, veh/h
0
712
319
817
2558
0
623
0
287
Arrive On Green
0.00
0.20
0.00
0.46
0.72
0.00
0.18
0.00
0.00
Sat Flow, veh/h
0
3632
1583
1774
3632
0
3442
0
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
0
430
0
751
1178
0
435
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
0
1770
1583
1774
1770
0
1721
0
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
6.3
0.0
22.6
7.9
0.0
6.8
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
6.3
0.0
22.6
7.9
0.0
6.8
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
0
712
319
817
2558
0
623
0
287
V/C Ratio(X)
0.00
0.60
0.00
0.92
0.46
0.00
0.70
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
0
2508
1122
1319
2558
0
1355
0
623
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
20.8
0.0
14.4
3.3
0.0
21.9
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.0
0.3
0.0
4.6
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.0
3.1
0.0
11.9
3.8
0.0
3.2
0.0
0.0
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.0
21.1
0.0
19.1
3.3
0.0
22.5
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
C
B
A
C
Approach Vol, veh/h
430
1929
435
Approach Delay, s/veh
21.1
9.5
22.5
Approach LOS
C
A
C
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
1
2
4
6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
29.8
15.0
12.3
44.8
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.0
* 5
3.5
5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
41.0
* 39
21.0
35.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
24.6
8.3
8.8
9.9
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.2
0.6
0.1
1.7
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
13.3
HCM 2010 LOS
B
Notes

--- page 355 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Cumulative+Project AM
3: SR 92 EB Off Ramp/SR 92 EB On Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/02/2020
Cumulative+Project AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
0
518
231
0
845
369
884
0
749
0
0
0
Future Volume (veh/h)
0
518
231
0
845
369
884
0
749
0
0
0
Number
5
2
12
1
6
16
3
8
18
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
0
1863
1900
0
1863
1900
1863
0
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
0
545
0
0
889
388
931
0
694
Adj No. of Lanes
0
3
0
0
2
0
1
0
1
Peak Hour Factor
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
2
2
0
2
2
2
0
2
Cap, veh/h
0
2066
0
0
977
424
942
0
841
Arrive On Green
0.00
0.41
0.00
0.00
0.13
0.13
0.53
0.00
0.53
Sat Flow, veh/h
0
5421
0
0
2499
1043
1774
0
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
0
545
0
0
652
625
931
0
694
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
0
1695
0
0
1770
1679
1774
0
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
5.7
0.0
0.0
29.1
29.4
41.4
0.0
29.3
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
5.7
0.0
0.0
29.1
29.4
41.4
0.0
29.3
Prop In Lane
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.62
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
0
2066
0
0
719
682
942
0
841
V/C Ratio(X)
0.00
0.26
0.00
0.00
0.91
0.92
0.99
0.00
0.83
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
0
2066
0
0
719
682
942
0
841
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.33
0.33
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.00
0.67
0.00
0.00
0.88
0.88
1.00
0.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
15.8
0.0
0.0
33.2
33.3
18.5
0.0
15.6
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
15.7
17.4
26.2
0.0
6.3
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.0
2.7
0.0
0.0
17.4
17.0
26.8
0.0
14.0
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.0
16.0
0.0
0.0
48.9
50.7
44.7
0.0
22.0
LnGrp LOS
B
D
D
D
C
Approach Vol, veh/h
545
1277
1625
Approach Delay, s/veh
16.0
49.8
35.0
Approach LOS
B
D
C
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
35.5
35.5
44.5
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.5
4.5
3.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
31.0
31.0
41.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
7.7
31.4
43.4
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.9
0.0
0.0
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
37.5
HCM 2010 LOS
D

--- page 356 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Cumulative+Project AM
4: Hillsdale Blvd & Alameda de Las Pulgas
10/02/2020
Cumulative+Project AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
108
579
30
185
660
165
98
247
253
142
164
74
Future Volume (veh/h)
108
579
30
185
660
165
98
247
253
142
164
74
Number
1
6
16
5
2
12
7
4
14
3
8
18
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1863
1863
1900
1863
1863
1900
1863
1863
1900
1863
1863
1900
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
123
658
34
210
750
188
111
281
288
161
186
84
Adj No. of Lanes
1
2
0
1
2
0
1
1
0
1
1
0
Peak Hour Factor
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
0.88
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
268
1370
71
353
1122
281
484
338
346
246
487
220
Arrive On Green
0.40
0.40
0.43
0.40
0.40
0.43
0.40
0.40
0.43
0.40
0.40
0.43
Sat Flow, veh/h
595
3424
177
749
2805
703
1105
844
866
839
1216
549
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
123
340
352
210
473
465
111
0
569
161
0
270
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
595
1770
1832
749
1770
1739
1105
0
1710
839
0
1766
Q Serve(g_s), s
8.1
6.4
6.4
11.6
9.9
9.8
3.6
0.0
13.4
4.6
0.0
4.8
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
18.0
6.4
6.4
18.0
9.9
9.8
8.4
0.0
13.4
18.0
0.0
4.8
Prop In Lane
1.00
0.10
1.00
0.40
1.00
0.51
1.00
0.31
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
268
708
733
353
708
695
484
0
684
246
0
706
V/C Ratio(X)
0.46
0.48
0.48
0.60
0.67
0.67
0.23
0.00
0.83
0.65
0.00
0.38
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
268
708
733
353
708
695
484
0
684
246
0
706
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
18.9
10.0
10.0
17.2
11.1
10.8
12.5
0.0
11.8
21.3
0.0
9.4
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
5.6
2.3
2.3
7.2
5.0
5.0
1.1
0.0
11.3
12.7
0.0
1.6
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
1.9
3.6
3.7
3.3
5.7
5.6
1.2
0.0
8.3
2.8
0.0
2.6
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
24.5
12.3
12.2
24.4
16.0
15.8
13.6
0.0
23.1
34.0
0.0
10.9
LnGrp LOS
C
B
B
C
B
B
B
C
C
B
Approach Vol, veh/h
815
1148
680
431
Approach Delay, s/veh
14.1
17.5
21.5
19.6
Approach LOS
B
B
C
B
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
22.5
22.5
22.5
22.5
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.5
4.5
4.5
4.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
18.0
18.0
18.0
18.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
20.0
15.4
20.0
20.0
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.0
1.1
0.0
0.0
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
17.8
HCM 2010 LOS
B

--- page 357 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Cumulative+Project PM
1: Hillsdale Blvd & Campus Dr
10/02/2020
Cumulative+Project PM Peak Hour Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
WBT
WBR
SBL
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
283
1194
844
79
87
382
Future Volume (veh/h)
283
1194
844
79
87
382
Number
5
2
6
16
7
14
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1863
1863
1863
1900
1863
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
283
1194
844
79
87
256
Adj No. of Lanes
2
2
2
0
1
1
Peak Hour Factor
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
463
2563
1789
167
324
503
Arrive On Green
0.09
0.49
0.55
0.55
0.18
0.18
Sat Flow, veh/h
3442
3632
3365
306
1774
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
283
1194
456
467
87
256
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
1721
1770
1770
1809
1774
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
5.5
15.7
11.0
11.0
2.9
9.2
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
5.5
15.7
11.0
11.0
2.9
9.2
Prop In Lane
1.00
0.17
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
463
2563
968
989
324
503
V/C Ratio(X)
0.61
0.47
0.47
0.47
0.27
0.51
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
983
2563
968
989
355
530
HCM Platoon Ratio
0.67
0.67
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.79
0.79
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
30.1
9.0
9.7
9.7
24.6
19.4
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.4
0.5
1.6
1.6
0.2
0.3
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
2.7
7.8
5.8
5.9
1.5
8.3
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
30.5
9.5
11.3
11.3
24.7
19.7
LnGrp LOS
C
A
B
B
C
B
Approach Vol, veh/h
1477
923
343
Approach Delay, s/veh
13.5
11.3
21.0
Approach LOS
B
B
C
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
4
5
6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
54.2
15.8
12.4
41.8
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.0
4.5
4.5
5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
48.0
12.5
18.5
25.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
17.7
11.2
7.5
13.0
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
14.7
0.1
0.4
6.1
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
13.7
HCM 2010 LOS
B

--- page 358 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Cumulative+Project PM
2: SR 92 WB On Ramp/SR 92 WB Off Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/02/2020
Cumulative+Project PM Peak Hour Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
0
712
428
906
529
0
0
0
0
409
0
317
Future Volume (veh/h)
0
712
428
906
529
0
0
0
0
409
0
317
Number
5
2
12
1
6
16
7
4
14
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
0
1863
1863
1863
1863
0
1863
0
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
0
782
0
996
581
0
449
0
0
Adj No. of Lanes
0
2
1
1
2
0
2
0
1
Peak Hour Factor
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
2
2
2
2
0
2
0
2
Cap, veh/h
0
925
414
840
2738
0
568
0
261
Arrive On Green
0.00
0.26
0.00
0.47
0.77
0.00
0.17
0.00
0.00
Sat Flow, veh/h
0
3632
1583
1774
3632
0
3442
0
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
0
782
0
996
581
0
449
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
0
1770
1583
1774
1770
0
1721
0
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
18.8
0.0
42.5
4.0
0.0
11.2
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
18.8
0.0
42.5
4.0
0.0
11.2
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
0
925
414
840
2738
0
568
0
261
V/C Ratio(X)
0.00
0.85
0.00
1.19
0.21
0.00
0.79
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
0
1596
714
840
2738
0
862
0
397
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
31.4
0.0
23.6
2.8
0.0
36.0
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.0
0.8
0.0
95.7
0.0
0.0
1.4
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.0
9.2
0.0
42.9
1.9
0.0
5.5
0.0
0.0
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.0
32.3
0.0
119.4
2.8
0.0
37.4
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
C
F
A
D
Approach Vol, veh/h
782
1577
449
Approach Delay, s/veh
32.3
76.4
37.4
Approach LOS
C
E
D
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
1
2
4
6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
46.0
27.0
16.8
73.0
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.0
* 5
3.5
5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
41.0
* 39
21.0
35.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
44.5
20.8
13.2
6.0
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.0
1.2
0.1
0.7
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
57.9
HCM 2010 LOS
E
Notes

--- page 359 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Cumulative+Project PM
3: SR 92 EB Off Ramp/SR 92 EB On Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/02/2020
Cumulative+Project PM Peak Hour Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
0
812
356
0
1109
385
276
0
681
0
0
0
Future Volume (veh/h)
0
812
356
0
1109
385
276
0
681
0
0
0
Number
5
2
12
1
6
16
3
8
18
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
0
1863
1900
0
1863
1900
1863
0
1863
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
0
855
0
0
1167
405
291
0
602
Adj No. of Lanes
0
3
0
0
2
0
1
0
1
Peak Hour Factor
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.95
Percent Heavy Veh, %
0
2
2
0
2
2
2
0
2
Cap, veh/h
0
3088
0
0
1576
535
570
0
509
Arrive On Green
0.00
0.61
0.00
0.00
0.20
0.20
0.32
0.00
0.32
Sat Flow, veh/h
0
5421
0
0
2689
881
1774
0
1583
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
0
855
0
0
787
785
291
0
602
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
0
1695
0
0
1770
1707
1774
0
1583
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
5.6
0.0
0.0
29.2
30.3
9.3
0.0
22.5
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
0.0
5.6
0.0
0.0
29.2
30.3
9.3
0.0
22.5
Prop In Lane
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.52
1.00
1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
0
3088
0
0
1074
1037
570
0
509
V/C Ratio(X)
0.00
0.28
0.00
0.00
0.73
0.76
0.51
0.00
1.18
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
0
3088
0
0
1074
1037
570
0
509
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.33
0.33
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
0.00
0.51
0.00
0.00
0.83
0.83
1.00
0.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
0.0
6.5
0.0
0.0
22.7
23.1
19.3
0.0
23.8
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.0
0.1
0.0
0.0
3.7
4.3
0.3
0.0
100.9
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
0.0
2.6
0.0
0.0
15.4
15.6
4.6
0.0
24.0
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
0.0
6.6
0.0
0.0
26.4
27.4
19.6
0.0
124.7
LnGrp LOS
A
C
C
B
F
Approach Vol, veh/h
855
1572
893
Approach Delay, s/veh
6.6
26.9
90.4
Approach LOS
A
C
F
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
45.5
45.5
24.5
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.5
4.5
3.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
41.0
41.0
21.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
7.6
32.3
24.5
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
1.4
1.8
0.0
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
38.8
HCM 2010 LOS
D

--- page 360 ---
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary
Cumulative+Project PM
4: Hillsdale Blvd & Alameda de Las Pulgas
10/02/2020
Cumulative+Project PM Peak Hour Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Movement
SEL
SET
SER
NWL
NWT
NWR
NEL
NET
NER
SWL
SWT
SWR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
159
778
93
221
640
80
66
295
235
113
204
69
Future Volume (veh/h)
159
778
93
221
640
80
66
295
235
113
204
69
Number
1
6
16
5
2
12
7
4
14
3
8
18
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1863
1863
1900
1863
1863
1900
1863
1863
1900
1863
1863
1900
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
166
810
97
230
667
83
69
307
245
118
212
72
Adj No. of Lanes
1
2
0
1
2
0
1
1
0
1
1
0
Peak Hour Factor
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
0.96
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
330
1274
152
280
1268
158
474
384
307
263
532
181
Arrive On Green
0.40
0.40
0.43
0.40
0.40
0.43
0.40
0.40
0.43
0.40
0.40
0.43
Sat Flow, veh/h
709
3184
381
612
3169
394
1091
961
767
852
1331
452
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
166
450
457
230
372
378
69
0
552
118
0
284
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln
709
1770
1795
612
1770
1793
1091
0
1727
852
0
1783
Q Serve(g_s), s
10.4
9.2
9.2
8.8
7.2
7.2
2.2
0.0
12.6
5.4
0.0
5.1
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
17.6
9.2
9.2
18.0
7.2
7.2
7.2
0.0
12.6
18.0
0.0
5.1
Prop In Lane
1.00
0.21
1.00
0.22
1.00
0.44
1.00
0.25
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h
330
708
718
280
708
717
474
0
691
263
0
713
V/C Ratio(X)
0.50
0.64
0.64
0.82
0.53
0.53
0.15
0.00
0.80
0.45
0.00
0.40
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
330
708
718
280
708
717
474
0
691
263
0
713
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.00
1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh
17.0
10.9
10.7
20.2
10.3
10.1
12.2
0.0
11.6
20.1
0.0
9.5
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
5.4
4.3
4.3
23.1
2.8
2.8
0.6
0.0
9.4
5.5
0.0
1.7
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln
2.5
5.2
5.3
4.6
4.0
4.0
0.7
0.0
7.7
1.8
0.0
2.8
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
22.3
15.2
15.0
43.4
13.0
12.9
12.8
0.0
21.0
25.6
0.0
11.1
LnGrp LOS
C
B
B
D
B
B
B
C
C
B
Approach Vol, veh/h
1073
980
621
402
Approach Delay, s/veh
16.2
20.1
20.1
15.4
Approach LOS
B
C
C
B
Timer
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
22.5
22.5
22.5
22.5
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
4.5
4.5
4.5
4.5
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
18.0
18.0
18.0
18.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
20.0
14.6
19.6
20.0
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.0
1.4
0.0
0.0
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay
18.1
HCM 2010 LOS
B

--- page 361 ---
Queues
Cumulative+Project AM
1: Hillsdale Blvd & Campus Dr
10/06/2020
Cumulative+Project AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBL
EBT
WBT
SBL
SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
256
828
1000
39
210
v/c Ratio
0.50
0.30
0.48
0.16
0.40
Control Delay
37.6
2.1
10.9
31.4
20.7
Queue Delay
0.0
0.3
1.7
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
37.6
2.4
12.6
31.4
20.7
Queue Length 50th (ft)
65
26
140
17
72
Queue Length 95th (ft)
m92
54
207
44
121
Internal Link Dist (ft)
270
767
1297
Turn Bay Length (ft)
155
150
150
Base Capacity (vph)
1416
2750
2082
265
932
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
1206
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
860
0
3
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.18
0.54
0.82
0.15
0.23
Intersection Summary
m    Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

--- page 362 ---
Queues
Cumulative+Project AM
2: SR 92 WB On Ramp/SR 92 WB Off Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/06/2020
Cumulative+Project AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
SBL
SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
430
190
751
1178
435
848
v/c Ratio
0.67
0.12
0.80
0.44
0.71
0.54
Control Delay
36.5
0.2
25.1
4.6
38.0
1.3
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
14.2
0.1
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
36.5
0.2
39.3
4.7
38.0
1.3
Queue Length 50th (ft)
106
0
281
89
105
0
Queue Length 95th (ft)
163
0
#612
157
162
0
Internal Link Dist (ft)
592
325
Turn Bay Length (ft)
200
250
300
Base Capacity (vph)
1794
1583
941
3509
967
1583
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
185
956
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.24
0.12
0.99
0.46
0.45
0.54
Intersection Summary
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

--- page 363 ---
Queues
Cumulative+Project AM
3: SR 92 EB Off Ramp/SR 92 EB On Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/06/2020
Cumulative+Project AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBT
WBT
NBL
NBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
788
1277
931
694
v/c Ratio
0.38
0.94
0.98
0.74
Control Delay
13.5
35.5
46.3
16.2
Queue Delay
0.0
45.3
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
13.5
80.8
46.3
16.2
Queue Length 50th (ft)
75
326
430
184
Queue Length 95th (ft)
105
#460
#709
330
Internal Link Dist (ft)
325
270
Turn Bay Length (ft)
400
Base Capacity (vph)
2071
1371
946
933
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
292
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.38
1.18
0.98
0.74
Intersection Summary
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

--- page 364 ---
Queues
Cumulative+Project AM
4: Hillsdale Blvd & Alameda de Las Pulgas
10/06/2020
Cumulative+Project AM Peak Hour Traffic Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
SEL
SET
NWL
NWT
NEL
NET
SWL
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
123
692
210
938
111
569
161
270
v/c Ratio
0.75
0.49
0.83
0.66
0.26
0.75
0.86
0.36
Control Delay
45.8
11.3
45.7
12.7
11.0
17.2
58.9
9.0
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
45.8
11.3
45.7
12.7
11.0
17.2
58.9
9.0
Queue Length 50th (ft)
26
64
46
87
18
90
36
35
Queue Length 95th (ft)
#97
97
#140
133
44
#222
#121
73
Internal Link Dist (ft)
496
552
1829
1881
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
165
1414
252
1422
435
762
187
746
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.75
0.49
0.83
0.66
0.26
0.75
0.86
0.36
Intersection Summary
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

--- page 365 ---
Queues
Cumulative+Project PM
1: Hillsdale Blvd & Campus Dr
10/06/2020
Cumulative+Project PM Peak Hour Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBL
EBT
WBT
SBL
SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
283
1194
923
87
382
v/c Ratio
0.49
0.47
0.52
0.26
0.57
Control Delay
31.8
3.4
13.8
25.9
16.8
Queue Delay
0.0
0.4
0.7
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
31.8
3.8
14.4
25.9
16.8
Queue Length 50th (ft)
62
58
133
32
103
Queue Length 95th (ft)
m80
m71
208
68
163
Internal Link Dist (ft)
270
767
1297
Turn Bay Length (ft)
155
150
150
Base Capacity (vph)
980
2530
1759
354
849
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
734
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
453
0
6
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.29
0.66
0.71
0.25
0.45
Intersection Summary
m    Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

--- page 366 ---
Queues
Cumulative+Project PM
2: SR 92 WB On Ramp/SR 92 WB Off Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/06/2020
Cumulative+Project PM Peak Hour Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
SBL
SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
782
470
996
581
449
348
v/c Ratio
0.82
0.30
1.22
0.21
0.74
0.22
Control Delay
39.9
0.5
136.1
3.6
45.0
0.3
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.9
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
39.9
0.5
137.0
3.6
45.0
0.3
Queue Length 50th (ft)
225
0
~724
40
129
0
Queue Length 95th (ft)
317
0
#1174
73
200
0
Internal Link Dist (ft)
592
325
Turn Bay Length (ft)
200
250
300
Base Capacity (vph)
1557
1583
817
3251
839
1583
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
117
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.50
0.30
1.42
0.18
0.54
0.22
Intersection Summary
~    Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

--- page 367 ---
Queues
Cumulative+Project PM
3: SR 92 EB Off Ramp/SR 92 EB On Ramp & Hillsdale Blvd
10/06/2020
Cumulative+Project PM Peak Hour Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
EBT
WBT
NBL
NBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)
1230
1572
291
602
v/c Ratio
0.41
0.78
0.50
0.94
Control Delay
6.0
13.0
22.3
42.6
Queue Delay
0.0
1.9
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
6.0
14.9
22.3
42.6
Queue Length 50th (ft)
68
281
97
182
Queue Length 95th (ft)
87
381
170
#397
Internal Link Dist (ft)
325
270
Turn Bay Length (ft)
400
Base Capacity (vph)
3079
2080
595
647
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
338
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.40
0.90
0.49
0.93
Intersection Summary
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

--- page 368 ---
Queues
Cumulative+Project PM
4: Hillsdale Blvd & Alameda de Las Pulgas
10/06/2020
Cumulative+Project PM Peak Hour Conditions
Synchro 10 Report
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.
Lane Group
SEL
SET
NWL
NWT
NEL
NET
SWL
SWT
Lane Group Flow (vph)
166
907
230
750
69
552
118
285
v/c Ratio
0.73
0.64
1.39
0.53
0.16
0.75
0.59
0.38
Control Delay
36.5
13.0
228.6
11.5
10.0
18.6
27.9
9.8
Queue Delay
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Delay
36.5
13.0
228.6
11.5
10.0
18.6
27.9
9.8
Queue Length 50th (ft)
34
89
~84
68
11
98
23
40
Queue Length 95th (ft)
#118
138
#185
108
30
#238
#86
84
Internal Link Dist (ft)
496
552
1829
1881
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
226
1413
166
1412
421
739
199
743
Starvation Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Spillback Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Storage Cap Reductn
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced v/c Ratio
0.73
0.64
1.39
0.53
0.16
0.75
0.59
0.38
Intersection Summary
~    Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
#    95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
     Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

--- page 369 ---
Appendix 3 
CAP Consistency Checklist 
 
The following checklist assists project applicants and City staff to determine whether a proposed project complies 
with the City of San Mateo Climate Action Plan (CAP). The CAP is an implementation tool of the General Plan, 
demonstrating the City’s strategy to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions consistent with Section 15183.5 of the 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines. New projects deemed consistent with the CAP are eligible for 
streamlining the analysis of GHG emissions. Projects inconsistent with the CAP may refer to this checklist for 
informational purposes but may have to submit a separate GHG analysis for the project. Examples of projects 
inconsistent with the City’s forecast include: 
• 
Stationary source emissions regulated by the Bay Area Air Quality Management District.  
• 
General Plan amendments.  
• 
New specific plans, amendments to specific plans, or new development agreements that would increase the 
population and nonresidential land use expectations beyond those anticipated in the General Plan buildout 
scenario.

--- page 370 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLIST  
A-76 
City of San Mateo 
April 2015 
 
Development Checklist 
Project Description Characteristics  
Please identify the applicable land uses included in the proposed project and provide a brief description of the 
proposed project (or the project description to be used for the associated environmental document). 
1) What is the size of the project (in acres)?  
      
2) Identify the applicable land uses: 
Residential 
Commercial 
 Industrial 
 Manufacturing 
 Other 
3) If there is a residential component to the project, how many units are being proposed?  
Single-family residences:  
:      
Multi-family residences: 
:      
4) Please provide a brief project description: 
      
5) Does the project require any amendments to the General Plan or specific plans?  
 Yes  No 
If yes, please explain:

--- page 371 ---
APPENDIX 3 
April 2015 
Adopted Climate Action Plan 
A-75 
 
6) Is the project located in a specific plan area?  
 Yes  No 
If so, which one? _______________ 
7) Please complete the following table to identify project compliance with any applicable CAP measures.  
Standards for CAP Consistency – New Development  
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply? 
Notes & Comments 
RE 3. New single family houses and multifamily 
residential buildings: Meet the standards to be solar 
ready as defined by the California Building Standards 
Code 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the square footage of the 
solar zone?  
      
Additional notes: 
      
RE 5. New nonresidential buildings: Meet the 
standards to be solar ready as defined by the California 
Building Standards Code 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the square footage of the 
solar zone?  
      
Additional notes: 
      
AF 2. If off-street parking is provided, projects of at 
least six multi-family residential units and/or 10,000 
square feet of nonresidential square footage at 
time of new construction or addition or alteration 
(as defined in San Mateo Municipal Code Section 
23.06.012): Provide 
EV charging stations with 
designated parking spaces capable of meeting the 
California Green Building Code Voluntary Standards.  
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how many EV charging stations 
are provided? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
AF 2. New single-family houses and multi-family 
units with private attached garages or carports: 
Provide pre-wired for an EV charging station inside the 
garage or carport. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how many spaces are prewired? 
      
Additional notes:

--- page 372 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLIST  
A-76 
City of San Mateo 
April 2015 
 
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply? 
Notes & Comments 
AT 2. New developments of at least six multi-family 
units and/or 10,000 square feet of nonresidential 
space: Implement TDM strategies to comply with the 
appropriate 
trip 
reduction 
target 
identified 
in 
applicable area plans and San Mateo Citywide TDM 
Plan. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the trip reduction target 
for the project?  
     % short-term commute trip 
reduction  
     % 
long-term 
commute 
trip 
reduction 
What strategies will the project use to 
achieve these trip reduction targets?  
       
AT 2. Projects of at least 20 multi-family units 
and/or 50,000 square feet of nonresidential space 
undergoing additions or alterations (as defined in 
San Mateo Municipal Code Section 23.06.012): 
Implement TDM strategies consistent with the targets 
in relevant area plans and the San Mateo Citywide TDM 
Plan. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the trip reduction target 
for the project?  
     % short-term commute trip 
reduction  
     % 
long-term 
commute 
trip 
reduction 
What strategies will the project use to 
achieve these trip reduction targets?  
      
SW 1. Commercial properties over 10,000 square 
feet and multi-family buildings of at least four units 
at time of construction or additions/alterations (as 
defined in San Mateo Municipal Code Section 
23.06.012): Provide an area of sufficient space to store 
and allow access to a compost bin. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
Does the project participate in any 
composting programs?  
      
Does the project compost on-site?

--- page 373 ---
11/4/2020 
 
Chair Ellen Mallory 
Vice Chair Ramiro Maldonado 
Commissioner John Ebneter 
Commissioner Mike Etheridge 
Commissioner Margaret Williams 
 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 10th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Re: Support - Peninsula Heights 
 
Dear Chair Mallory and Members of the San Mateo Planning Commission: 
On behalf of the ​Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County (HLC)​, I am writing to 
express our support for the Peninsula Heights proposal. We work with communities and their 
leaders to create and preserve quality affordable homes. With the opportunity to turn 
underutilized office space into more homes, the Peninsula Heights proposal has our full support. 
We urge the San Mateo Planning Commission to support the approval of the Peninsula 
Heights proposal in order to meet the urgent need for homes.​ By approving this application, 
the Planning Commission will further a vision of an inclusive, equitable, and sustainable future 
for the City of San Mateo, where all individuals can have access to an affordable place they can 
call home. 
We are pleased to see the Peninsula Heights proposal provide both market-rate and affordable 
for-sale townhomes. Earlier last year we hosted a meeting for several residents of San Mateo, to 
give us feedback on the Peninsula Heights proposal. The result was great support and excitement 
for these much needed homes. Each of them is excited to see more community members in the 
City they call home. By moving this proposal forward, the City of San Mateo can provide 
comfort and space for San Mateo workers and residents to rest their head at night. Thank you all 
you’ve done and continue to do for affordable housing in the City of San Mateo. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Alexander Melendrez, Digital Organizer 
Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County

--- page 374 ---
San Mateo City Council 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
November 5, 2020 
 
RE: Support for Peninsula Heights Project 
Dear Planning Commission: 
YIMBY Action is pleased to support the proposed Peninsula Heights project at 2988, 
2800, 2755, and 2655 Campus Drive in San Mateo. This project would offer 290 units 
of housing, 29 of which are below-market-rate. This project will help address our 
staggering regionwide housing shortage. In particular, it would add more housing 
and welcome more neighbors into an opportunity-rich neighborhood that offers 
access to job centers, shopping centers, and public transportation. 
YIMBY Action is a network of pro-housing activists fighting for more inclusive housing 
policies. Our vision is an integrated society where every person has access to a safe, 
affordable home near jobs, services, and opportunity. 
The Bay Area’s severe housing shortage is causing skyrocketing homelessness and 
poverty, crippling our economy, and leading to debilitating commutes that 
exacerbate our global climate crisis. These impacts fall disproportionately on our 
region’s low-income workers and families, and disproportionately deny communities 
1 
 
 
YIMBY Action advocates for welcoming communities where  
everyone can thrive. 
yimbyaction.org

--- page 375 ---
of color access to opportunity. This project will help address the housing shortage, 
help advance racial justice, and ensure a welcoming Bay Area where everyone can 
thrive. 
Best regards, 
Laura Foote 
YIMBY Action, Executive Director 
 
 
 
YIMBY Action advocates for welcoming communities where  
everyone can thrive. 
yimbyaction.org 
 
2

--- page 376 ---
Rendell Bustos

From: Rz35

Sent: Sunday, November 15, 2020 8:34 AM
To: Rendell Bustos

Subject: Re: PA-2020-012

Rendell,

Is 43' to the top of the stairway covering on the decks on top or 4th floor?

Thank you, we need more housing in SM. The bike lane and wider, improved sidewalk are great for outdoor exercise. We
are happy our view over the project once done should be better. The decks on top of the housing will give more social
distancing space outside and a lot more people will experience awesome views over the golf course, the bay and greater
San Mateo.

Thanks,

Jon

-----Original Message-----

From: Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org>
To: Rz35

Sent: Fri, Nov 13, ‘46 pm

Subject: RE: PA-2020-012

Good afternoon Jon,

Thanks for your email. The proposed buildings are not taller than the existing office buildings that exist presently. The
project plans are linked directly here. The tallest proposed buildings on the southern site are 43 ft. or less, and the existing
office buildings are 55 ft. in height. Please note that the proposed buildings confirm to the City’s maximum building height
of 55 ft.

If you’d like the applicant to walk you through the plans in greater detail, | can arrange that for you. Please let me now,
thanks.

-Rendell

Rendell Bustos

Acting Senior Planner | Community Development Department
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403

650-522-7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.or

eOocono
From: RR re kee
Sent: Friday, November 13, 2020 3:09 PM

To: Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: PA-2020-012

Rendell,

Peninsula Heights could take away the view of downtown San Francisco and other lovely to look at areas for many
owners of condominiums

When we bought homes in1

take away any of our view.

If any of the proposed 2 south (lower) project sites have buildings higher than the present ones many of us would loose
some of out valuable view.

What are the plans for the 2 south properties and their heights compared to what is there now?

Jon

we were told by the projects real estate agent that there would be nothing built that would


--- page 377 ---
2
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended only for the 
use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from 
disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this message 
or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the original sender 
immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. 
Thank you.

--- page 378 ---
Rendell Bustos

From: Jill McHale

Sent: Sunday, November 15, 2020 9:05 PM
To: Rendell Bustos

Ce: Hottie

Subject: Input on PA-2020-012 Peninsula Heights

Dear Mr. Bustos,
| am writing to express my concern about the PA-2020-012 Peninsula Heights project.

| live at - a quiet street with no through traffic. We chose to buy our home in this neighborhood 15
years ago because it was quiet and we could walk on Campus Drive to Laurelwood Shopping Center. | am extremely
concerned about two aspects of the proposed development that will negatively affect my neighborhood’s quality of life
and diminish our property values.

1) The 25th Avenue fire lane must remain closed so our quiet neighborhood doesn’t become a speeding thoroughfare
like 28th, 31st, and Hillsdale. Although the developers are advising that the fire lane will remain closed, I’m not counting
on a developer to protect our neighborhood’s interests. We do not want our quiet streets to become a connector to
Highway 92, Laurelwood Shopping Center, Meadow Heights Elementary School, Hillsdale High School, Alameda de las
Pulgas and El Camino Real.

2) The project should be limited to two-three story building heights. The plan includes four story units. Four stories is
tall and out of context with our neighborhood, higher than most apartment buildings in our area.

Please register my concerns and address this in the Dec 8th meeting.

Thank you.

Jill



--- page 379 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
David Lintott 
Sent:
Tuesday, November 17, 2020 10:24 AM
To:
Rendell Bustos
Subject:
PA-2020-012 Peninsula Heights
I live at 
 a 53‐unit condo building overlooking the canyon and 2 of the office building spots that 
are proposed for demolition of the existing buildings and constuction of town homes.  I am concerned about 
the following aspects of the project: 
 
1)  Light and noise pollution from the proposed roof gardens.  I understand there will be about 150 units built 
directly opposite me with their roofs almost on the same level as my unit.  I'm wondering if I'll have to install 
double‐glazing in all my windows.  I 
 
2) Destruction of so many heritage trees. 
 
I think the above will adversely affect the value of my unit and all units of our building which face north, which 
at the moment have a nice view (about 18 units) plus some on the northeast side.  This view also might be 
more obscured in the future because of the height of the proposed town homes.  I believe the last public 
meeting mentioned a height limit of about 35 feet but I now see it is almost 48 feet, which is getting up 
towards a five‐story building. 
 
I also am concerned in a general way about the access to the public paths and parks in the development.  Who 
will maintain them and provide security?  We have a private driveway that overlooks the bay and that attracts 
unwanted visitors, including drug users.  Having a gate has been considered but this is prohibitively expensive 
for us at this time.  I wonder if prospective HOA members realize the problems and expenses that might arise 
from these attractive paths and overlooks.  Or if the city is responsible, this will be an added expense for the 
city budget to police and maintain. 
 
Another issue that doesn't directly affect me but seems worrisome is the parking plan.  I understand each unit 
will have a 2‐car garage and there will be one visitor spot for each 5 units.  I think this is unrealistic as there is 
no parking on Campus Drive and the nearest bus stop is over the freeway and part way up West Hillsdale 
Blvd., quite a hike uphill. The shuttle services are very limited in their hours and probably don't work on the 
weekends.  This planned development is definitely not well supplied with public transportation nor with 
parking opportunities. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Jane Lintott

--- page 380 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
David Lintott 
Sent:
Wednesday, November 18, 2020 9:03 AM
To:
Rendell Bustos
Subject:
PA-2020-012 Peninsula Heights
Dear Mr. Bustos, 
 
Thank you for your quick response to my comments.  I understand that the official city requirements for 
parking have been met but was commenting from a common sense view of the situation considering the lack 
of nearby adequate public transportation. 
 
Re the official noise report, I don't know what methodology they used but at the moment the only noise I hear 
comes from deer in the canyon.  There is never any noise from the 3‐story office building opposite me (which I 
believe will not be demolished).  Very rarely someone, probably a teenager,  will go tearing around the usually 
empty parking lots below me in the early evening.  When there are 150 plus homes with residents living in the 
canyon 24/7 I do think the noise level will be somewhat higher! 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Jane Lintott

--- page 381 ---
November 18th , 2020 
 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 10th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Chair Commissioner Ellen Mallory 
Vice-Chair Commissioner Ramiro Maldonado 
Commissioner John Ebneter 
Commissioner Mike Etheridge 
Commissioner Margaret Williams 
 
Members of the San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
The Bay Area Housing Advocacy Coalition (BayHAC) is officially in support of the 
proposed project at 2988, 2800, 2755, and 2655 Campus Drive, San Mateo, CA 94133, 
Peninsula Heights. After an extensive presentation from the project sponsor, Harvest Properties 
Inc, BayHAC considers the proposed project a strong addition of well-designed, well-located, 
necessary new homes at all levels of affordability.  
 
Across the Bay Area, long-time residents and newcomers alike face an acute housing 
shortage, which has driven up prices and dragged down affordability. While no single project 
can solve this shortage, 290 new housing units go a long way toward creating enough quality 
homes for San Mateo and Bay Area residents. In addition, the project proposes a more 
family-friendly mix of homes with 66 2-bedroom units, 122 3-bedroom units, and 102 4-bedroom 
units. This project will also offer 29 onsite BMRs in the 290 total.  
 
Given that emissions from personal automobiles account for approximately 25% of 
carbon emissions in California, encouraging transit ridership is paramount in achieving our 
regional sustainability goals. This property is well-located to help achieve this goal, as there is a 
Caltrain shuttle that connects Downtown San Mateo and the existing offices, which gets 
residents out of their cars, and decreases vehicle miles traveled. In addition, the project 
sponsors have spoken to the Executive Director at Commute.org, who communicated that the 
shuttle currently operates below capacity and that by adding residential density along the route, 
it would better optimize the shuttle. Thus, new residential developments like Peninsula Heights 
would actually benefit the Caltrain shuttle system in this regard. While we would have liked to 
have seen more homes and less parking, more innovative alternatives to driving, and a more 
well- integrated streetscape and open space plan, the BayHAC recognizes the unique

--- page 382 ---
Bay Area

HOUSING
ADVOCACY
COALITION

challenges of developing this kind of density in a suburban context, and commends the project
team for this innovative conversion of an underutilized office park to the kind of housing that
California sorely needs.

Beyond design, the project implements several strong community benefits, headlined by
a contribution of an estimated $9M to help fund better community programming for the city of
San Mateo. Specifically, $1.7M will be used for schools and ~$5M will be dedicated to parks and
public arts. Additionally, future residences at the proposed project could generate upwards of
$8.5M to be spent at local businesses and will increase property revenue for San Mateo as well
as provide significant open space and trails for the community.

The project team engaged in a good faith community outreach program to local
stakeholders as the property owners had mailed invitations to all property owners and
occupants within a 1,000 ft radius of the project to an initial community outreach meeting, where
guests reviewed and provided feedback on design concerns. Input from the community, notably
- the president of the Verona Heights Homeowner Association resulted in traffic calming
measures in the drive aisles for residents. Besides the community meeting, the project team has
been in contact with the Superintendents of the local K-8 and 9-12 schools and the Chancellor
of the College of San Mateo (the project is close in proximity to the school) regarding funding for
local schools and housing opportunities for the college’s faculty and staff, respectively. Lastly,
the project team during their community outreach has been in contact with various housing
advocacy groups such as Greenbelt Alliance, Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo
County, SAMCEDA, and Silicon Valley Leadership Group, which BayHAC applauds.

Ultimately, BayHAC’s staff is proud to support this project proposal because it creates needed
homes for Bay Area residents, contributes to our shared Green goals, and contributes a
significant number of community benefits.

Sincerely, .
Sec ke

Todd David, Executive Director Bay Area Housing Advocacy Coalition (BayHAC)


--- page 383 ---
SAN FRANCISCO FAIRFIELD SAN JOSE SANTA ROSA WALNUT CREEK

GREENBELT ALLIANCE

November 30th 2020

San Mateo City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue on A
San Mateo, CA 94403 GREENBELT ALLIANCE

ENDORSED
a

RE: Peninsula Heights Project Endorsement

Dear Chair Mallory, Vice Chair Maldonado, John Ebneter, Mike Etheridge, and Margaret
Williams,

For over 60 years, Greenbelt Alliance has helped create cities and neighborhoods that make the Bay Area a better
place to live - healthy places where people can walk and bike; communities with parks, shops, transportation
options; homes that are affordable - and defend the Bay Area’s natural and agricultural landscapes from sprawl
development. Greenbelt Alliance’s “Grow Smart Bay Area” goals call for fully protecting the Bay Area’s greenbelt
and directing growth into our existing communities, and accomplishing both in a way that equitably benefits all
Bay Area residents. Our endorsement program helps further these goals by providing independent validation of
smart infill housing (development of vacant land within urban areas) and mixed-use projects (allowing for various

uses like office, commercial and residential).

Greenbelt Alliance is pleased to endorse the proposed Peninsula Heights project in San Mateo,
developed by Harvest Properties Inc.

The Peninsula Heights project will provide 290 high quality homes, 10% of which are affordable for low-income
residents, on 15.45 acres. This project helps to address the local and regional housing shortages by converting four
under-performing office buildings and their excessive surface parking lots to for-sale housing. By maintaining and
improving the remaining 226,000 square feet of office space, this project will help to recalibrate the jobs/housing
imbalance in San Mateo. The townhouses will be composed of both 2- and 3-bedroom units, providing variability in
family and living arrangements for residents. The community will benefit from increased open space across a
series of pocket parks, and a community garden, along with 1.4 miles of new paths and trails. Residents will be able
to easily walk or cycle to the College of San Mateo and local Shopping Center, and local transit stops and
connections provide access to the wider Bay Area region.

This project will help the city of San Mateo make significant progress towards its Regional Housing Needs
Assessment (RHNA) goals. Every city in the Bay Area must play their part to increase their housing stock to make
sure the local workforce can afford to live close to jobs, schools, and services — spending more time with family
and friends and less time in traffic congestion — improving the social fabric of our communities and reducing the
climate-damaging greenhouse gas emissions produced by driving. Peninsula Heights is another smart step for San
Mateo to ensure that homes and jobs are located near each other, with high quality transit access. We hope its swift
approval will inspire communities around the Bay Area to redouble their efforts to grow smartly.

Sincerely,

le Svegel
oe Siegel

Director of Climate Resilience | Greenbelt Alliance

hil:
greenbelt org|


--- page 384 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Steffany Lee 
Sent:
Monday, November 30, 2020 11:28 PM
To:
Rendell Bustos
Cc:
Zac Lee
Subject:
PA20-012-Peninsula Plans public comment
Dear Mr. Bustos, 
My family and I live at 
. My understanding that proposal PA20‐012 includes 
opening up the connection at 26th Ave and Campus Dr to non‐emergency traffic. We object to this for several reasons. 
 
As a homeowner we would be negatively impacted in several ways: 
 
Increased traffic ‐ We are concerned that there will be increased level of traffic of cars cutting through our 
neighborhood 
 
Risk to children ‐ As parents of young children, I'm concerned through traffic will increase the risk to their safety
 
Decrease in housing value ‐ If through traffic increases, our home value will be negatively impacted. 
We will attend the public hearing on 12/8 but want to ensure that you have our concerns documented. 
Thanks, 
Steffany & Zac Lee

--- page 385 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
LAURA DUNCAN 
Sent:
Tuesday, December 1, 2020 8:10 PM
To:
Rendell Bustos
Subject:
Peninsula Heights  Concern- Permission to Speak about Fire Lane Gate Sign
Hello Mr. Bustos, 
 
My name is Laura Duncan.  I grew up in San Mateo and currently  live at 
  One of the main reasons we 
bought our home in this location was for the peace and tranquility of our street.  
 
I have concerns that the Peninsula Heights Development, with 290 large, mostly 3‐4 bedroom townhomes, is going to 
have an overflow effect of congestion and traffic into our lower area. I fear it could even make our narrow streets 
become a frontage road of sorts for 92 during commutes and backups…  many of my neighbors have similar concerns. 
 
I know that the fire lane connecting Campus Drive and 26th is currently slated to remain closed with only emergency 
exceptions. 
   
Over the years, opening of the gate to cross traffic has come up…. Once hundreds of new residents move in, it will surely 
come up again.  The current city planning commission members, city employees, and the developer may not still be here 
to keep their part of this agreement, but many of my friends and neighbors hope to be! 
 
I would like to ask that the city and developer publicly commit to the promise of not opening the fire lane.  I would like 
to seek a sign stating that promise posted on or by the gate.  I would like the city of San Mateo to honor its current 
residents wishes, as well as welcoming new neighbors. Unlike the new homeowners, we have been good citizens of San 
Mateo for a long time, paying taxes and often volunteering for the benefit of others… we are a very nice bunch! 
 
I would like to make this request for a sign of promise at the December 8th meeting. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Laura Duncan 
Art Teacher at Meadow Heights Elementary Hillsdale High School Music Boosters President

--- page 386 ---
MITIGATION MONITORING OR REPORTING PROGRAM 
 
 
 
 
 
Peninsula Heights Project 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO  
 
December 2020

--- page 387 ---
P R E F A C E 
 
Section 21081 of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requires a Lead Agency to adopt a Mitigation Monitoring or 
Reporting Program whenever it approves a project for which measures have been required to mitigate or avoid significant effects on the 
environment.  The purpose of the monitoring or reporting program is to ensure compliance with the mitigation measures during project 
implementation. 
 
The Initial Study for the Peninsula Heights project concluded that the implementation of the project could result in significant effects on 
the environment and mitigation measures were incorporated into the proposed project or are required as a condition of project approval.  
This Mitigation Monitoring or Reporting Program addresses those measures in terms of how and when they will be implemented. 
 
This document does not discuss those subjects for which the Initial Study concluded that the impacts from implementation of the project 
would be less than significant and for which no standard or mitigation measures would be required.

--- page 388 ---
Peninsula Heights Project 
 
 
December 2020 
Mitigation Monitoring or Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 1 
MITIGATION MONITORING OR REPORTING PROGRAM 
PENINSULA HEIGHTS PROJECT 
Impact 
Mitigation 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES 
 
Impact BIO-1:  Disturbance of 
raptor or other nests present in any 
on-site or migratory bird adjacent 
trees during construction activities 
could result in the loss of fertile eggs 
or nestlings, or otherwise lead to nest 
abandonment.  Disturbance that 
causes abandonment and/or loss of 
reproductive effort is considered a 
taking by the CDFW.  (Significant 
Impact) 
 
 
MM BIO-1.1:  Construction activities (or at least 
the commencement of such activities) shall be 
scheduled to avoid the nesting season. If 
construction activities are scheduled to take place 
outside of the nesting season, all impacts on 
nesting birds protected under the MBTA and 
California Fish and Game Code  will be avoided. 
The nesting season for most birds in San Mateo 
County extends from February 1st through 
August 30th. 
 
MM BIO-1.2:  If it is not possible to schedule 
construction activities between September 1 and 
January 31 then preconstruction surveys for 
nesting birds shall be conducted by a qualified 
ornithologist to ensure that no nests will be 
disturbed during project implementation. These 
surveys shall be conducted no more than 14 days 
prior to the initiation of construction.  During this 
survey, the ornithologist shall inspect all trees and 
other potential nesting habitats (e.g., trees, shrubs, 
ruderal grasslands, buildings) in and immediately 
adjacent to the impact areas for nests). 
 
MM BIO-1.3:  If an active nest is found 
sufficiently close to work areas to be disturbed by 
these activities, the ornithologist shall determine 
the extent of a construction-free buffer zone to be 
established around the nest (typically 300 feet for 
 
Prior to issuance 
of demolition or 
grading permits, 
and during 
demolition and 
construction 
activities on the 
site. 
 
Community 
Development 
Department – 
Planning Division 
 
Community 
Development 
Department and 
California 
Department of 
Fish and Wildlife

--- page 389 ---
Peninsula Heights Project 
 
 
December 2020 
Mitigation Monitoring or Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 2 
MITIGATION MONITORING OR REPORTING PROGRAM 
PENINSULA HEIGHTS PROJECT 
Impact 
Mitigation 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
raptors and 100 feet for other species), to ensure 
that nests of species protected by the MBTA and 
California Fish and Game Code  shall not be 
disturbed during project implementation. 
However, if the ornithologist has confirmed that 
the hatchlings have left the nest, construction may 
commence within the buffer zone. 
 
MM BIO-1.4: If construction activities will not 
be initiated until after the start of the nesting 
season, all potential nesting substrates (e.g., 
bushes, trees, grasses, and other vegetation) that 
are scheduled to be removed by the project may 
be removed prior to the start of the nesting season 
(e.g., prior to February 1st). 
 
CULTURAL RESOURCES 
 
Impact CUL-2:  While 
archaeological resources are not 
anticipated to be discovered during 
project construction, the possibility 
remains that as-yet undiscovered 
resources could be unearthed during 
grading, excavation, or other site 
disturbances. 
 
 
 
 
MM CUL-2: If any unanticipated prehistoric or 
significant historic period cultural materials are 
exposed during construction grading and/or 
excavation, operations shall stop within 50 feet of 
the find and a qualified professional archaeologist 
contacted for evaluation and further 
recommendations consistent with CEQA and City 
of San Mateo requirements. Potential 
recommendations could include evaluation, 
collection, recordation, analysis, etc. of any 
significant cultural materials followed by a 
professional report.   
 
During 
demolition and 
construction 
activities on the 
site. 
 
Community 
Development 
Department – 
Planning Division 
 
Community 
Development 
Department – 
Planning Division

--- page 390 ---
Peninsula Heights Project 
 
 
December 2020 
Mitigation Monitoring or Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 3 
MITIGATION MONITORING OR REPORTING PROGRAM 
PENINSULA HEIGHTS PROJECT 
Impact 
Mitigation 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
 
 
Impact CUL-3:  The project site has 
been identified as having a low 
sensitivity for cultural materials 
associated with Native Americans, 
including human remains. 
Nonetheless, there is the potential for 
discovery of human remains during 
grading, excavation, and other site 
disturbing activities. 
 
 
MM CUL-3: In the event that human remains 
are discovered during excavation and/or grading 
of the site or public right-of-way, all activity 
within a 50-foot radius of the find shall be 
stopped. The San Mateo County Coroner shall be 
notified and make a determination as to whether 
the remains are of Native American origin or 
whether an investigation into the cause of death is 
required. If the remains are determined to be 
Native American, the Coroner will notify the 
Native American Heritage Commission (NAHC) 
immediately. Once the NAHC identifies the most 
likely descendants, the descendants will make 
recommendations regarding proper burial, which 
will be implemented in accordance with Section 
15064.5(e) of the CEQA Guidelines.   
 
 
 
 
HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS 
 
Impact HAZ-2:  Release of 
hazardous materials, specifically 
asbestos-containing materials, lead-
based paint, and polychlorinated 
biphenyls present on site could pose 
a risk to construction workers and 
 
MM HAZ-2:  To reduce the potential for 
construction worker and nearby sensitive receptor 
exposure to hazardous materials (ACMs and lead-
based paint), the following measures shall be 
incorporated at all times during the construction 
of the project.  
 
 
Prior to issuance 
of demolition and 
building permits, 
and during 
demolition and 
construction 
 
Community 
Development 
Department –  
Building Division  
 
 
 
Community 
Development 
Department –  
Building Division

--- page 391 ---
Peninsula Heights Project 
 
 
December 2020 
Mitigation Monitoring or Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 4 
MITIGATION MONITORING OR REPORTING PROGRAM 
PENINSULA HEIGHTS PROJECT 
Impact 
Mitigation 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
nearby sensitive receptors during 
building demolition. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In conformance with local, state, and 
federal laws, an asbestos building survey 
and a lead-based paint survey shall be 
completed by a qualified professional to 
determine the presence of ACMs and/or 
lead-based paint on the structures 
proposed for demolition prior to issuance 
of a demolition permit for any site 
structure. 
 
 
A registered asbestos abatement 
contractor shall be retained to remove and 
dispose of all potentially friable asbestos-
containing materials, in accordance with 
the NESHAP guidelines, prior to building 
demolition that may disturb the materials. 
All construction activities shall be 
undertaken in accordance with Cal/OSHA 
standards, contained in Title 8 of the 
California Code of Regulations (CCR), 
Section 1529, to protect workers from 
exposure to asbestos. Materials containing 
more than one percent asbestos are also 
subject to BAAQMD regulations. 
 
 
During demolition activities, all building 
materials containing lead-based paint 
shall be removed in accordance with 
Cal/OSHA Lead in Construction 
activities on the 
site.

--- page 392 ---
Peninsula Heights Project 
 
 
December 2020 
Mitigation Monitoring or Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 5 
MITIGATION MONITORING OR REPORTING PROGRAM 
PENINSULA HEIGHTS PROJECT 
Impact 
Mitigation 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
Standard, Title 8, CCR 1532.1, including 
employee training, employee air 
monitoring and dust control. Any debris 
or soil containing lead-based paint or 
coatings shall be disposed of at landfills 
that meet acceptance criteria for the waste 
being disposed. 
 
 
As required under the Toxic Substances 
Control Act (TSCA), all building 
materials containing PCBs at levels 
greater than 50 parts per million (ppm) 
must be removed upon discovery. If 
demolition is likely to impact such 
materials, they must be properly 
characterized and removed in accordance 
with TSCA regulations. The project shall 
be required to submit a PCB Screening 
Assessment form prior to building permit 
issuance. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOISE 
 
Impact NOI-1:  Sensitive receptors 
in the project area could be exposed 
to noise levels exceeding the limits 
specified in the City’s Municipal 
 
MM NOI-1.1: Modification, placement, and 
operation of construction equipment are possible 
means for minimizing the impact of construction 
noise on existing sensitive receptors. Construction 
equipment should be well-maintained and used 
 
During 
demolition and 
construction 
 
Community 
Development 
Department –  
Building Division 
 
Community 
Development 
Department –  
Building Division

--- page 393 ---
Peninsula Heights Project 
 
 
December 2020 
Mitigation Monitoring or Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 6 
MITIGATION MONITORING OR REPORTING PROGRAM 
PENINSULA HEIGHTS PROJECT 
Impact 
Mitigation 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
Code during project construction 
activities. In addition, noise from 
HVAC equipment could exceed the 
daytime and nighttime hourly 
thresholds at adjacent uses. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
judiciously to be as quiet as possible. 
Additionally, construction activities for the 
project should include the following best 
management practices to reduce noise at sensitive 
land uses: 
 
 
Construction activities shall be limited to 
the hours between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 
p.m., Monday through Friday, Saturdays 
between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., and 
Sundays and holidays between 12:00 p.m. 
and 4:00 p.m., in accordance with the 
City’s Municipal Code, unless permission 
is granted with a development permit or 
other planning approval. Work in the 
public right-of-way shall be restricted to 
the weekdays. No work shall be allowed 
to take place within the public right-of-
way after 5:00 p.m. Earth haul and 
materials delivery to and from the site, 
including truck arrivals and departures to 
and from the site, will be prohibited 
between the weekday hours of 4:00 p.m. 
to 5:30 p.m. Signs outlining these 
restrictions shall be posted at conspicuous 
locations on-site. 
 
Construction staging areas shall be 
established at locations that will create the 
greatest distance between the 
activities on the 
site.

--- page 394 ---
Peninsula Heights Project 
 
 
December 2020 
Mitigation Monitoring or Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 7 
MITIGATION MONITORING OR REPORTING PROGRAM 
PENINSULA HEIGHTS PROJECT 
Impact 
Mitigation 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
construction-related noise sources and 
noise-sensitive receptors nearest the 
project site during all project construction. 
 
Use of exceptionally loud equipment such 
as jackhammers and concrete saws within 
35 feet of shared property lines shall be 
limited, as feasible. 
 
Equip all internal combustion engine-
driven equipment with intake and exhaust 
mufflers that are in good condition and 
appropriate for the equipment. 
 
Unnecessary idling of internal combustion 
engines should be strictly prohibited. 
 
Locate stationary noise-generating 
equipment, such as air compressors or 
portable power generators, as far as 
possible from sensitive receptors and 
property lines. If they must be located 
within 35 feet of receptors and property 
lines, adequate muffling (with barriers or 
enclosures where feasible and 
appropriate) shall be used to reduce noise 
levels at the adjacent sensitive receptors. 
 
Utilize “quiet” air compressors and other 
stationary noise sources where technology 
exists. 
 
Control noise from construction workers’ 
radios to a point where they are not audile

--- page 395 ---
Peninsula Heights Project 
 
 
December 2020 
Mitigation Monitoring or Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 8 
MITIGATION MONITORING OR REPORTING PROGRAM 
PENINSULA HEIGHTS PROJECT 
Impact 
Mitigation 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
at existing residences bordering the 
project site. 
 
The contract shall prepare a detailed 
construction plan identifying the schedule 
for major noise-generating construction 
activities. The construction plan shall 
identify a procedure for coordination with 
adjacent residential land uses so that 
construction activities can be scheduled to 
minimize noise disturbance. 
 
Designate a “disturbance coordinator” 
who would be responsible for responding 
to any complaints about construction 
noise and vibration during demolition and 
construction activities. The disturbance 
coordinator will determine the cause of 
the noise and vibration complaints (e.g., 
bad muffler, etc.) and will require that 
reasonable measures be implemented to 
correct the problem. Conspicuously post a 
telephone number for the disturbance 
coordinator at the construction site and 
include it in the notice sent to neighbors 
regarding the construction schedule. 
 
MM NOI-1.2  Mechanical equipment shall 
be selected and designed to reduce impacts on 
surrounding uses to meet the City’s Noise 
Ordinance. A qualified acoustical consultant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Verification of 
review by an

--- page 396 ---
Peninsula Heights Project 
 
 
December 2020 
Mitigation Monitoring or Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 9 
MITIGATION MONITORING OR REPORTING PROGRAM 
PENINSULA HEIGHTS PROJECT 
Impact 
Mitigation 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
shall be retained to review mechanical noise 
as these systems are selected to determine the 
specific noise reduction measures necessary, 
if any, to reduce noise to comply with the 
City’s Noise Ordinance. Noise reduction 
measures shall include, but are not limited to, 
selection of equipment that emits low noise 
levels and the installation of noise barriers, 
such as enclosures or parapet walls to block 
the line-of-sight between the noise source and 
the nearest receptors. Verification of review 
by an acoustical consultant, and any noise 
reduction measures to be implemented, shall 
be provided to the Planning Division prior to 
issuance of building permits for the 
superstructure. 
acoustical 
consultant, and 
any noise 
reduction 
measures to be 
implemented, 
shall be provided 
to the Planning 
Division prior to 
issuance of 
building permits 
for the 
superstructure. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Community 
Development 
Department –  
Planning Division  
 
 
 
 
  
 
Community 
Development 
Department –  
Planning Division  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SOURCE:  City of San Mateo, Peninsula Heights Project, November 2020.

--- page 397 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Rendell Bustos
Sent:
Monday, December 7, 2020 8:25 AM
To:
Subject:
RE: Peninsula Heights - letter in support
Good morning Emily, 
 
Thanks for your comment. This comment will be considered by the Planning Commission in advance of the Public 
Hearing scheduled for tomorrow evening. 
 
‐Rendell 
 
Rendell Bustos 
Acting Senior Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650‐522‐7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Begin forwarded message: 
From: Emily Morris 
 
Date: December 5, 2020 at 9:55:21 AM PST 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Peninsula Heights ‐ letter in support 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
I am a San Mateo resident writing in support of the Peninsula Heights development. It is critical that we 
build more housing in San Mateo County, particularly housing that includes affordable homes.  
 
Thank you for your time,  
 
Emily

--- page 398 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Rendell Bustos
Sent:
Monday, December 7, 2020 8:26 AM
To:
Subject:
RE: support for Peninsula Heights
Good morning Stephanie, 
 
Thank you for your comment. This comment will be considered by the Planning Commission in advance of the Public 
Hearing scheduled for tomorrow evening. 
 
‐Rendell 
 
Rendell Bustos 
Acting Senior Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650‐522‐7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org  
  
 
 
 
 
From: Stephanie Reyes <
> 
Date: December 6, 2020 at 1:01:23 PM PST 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: support for Peninsula Heights 
 
Dear Planning Commissioners, 
 
I am writing to express my support for the proposed Peninsula Heights development. This project will 
provide much‐needed new homes in San Mateo. It will be a creative reuse of under‐utilized office space, 
helping with San Mateo's jobs/housing imbalance which is the greatest source of our greenhouse gas 
emissions. 
 
In addition to providing much‐needed homes, the project will provide new parks and trails that all San 
Mateans can enjoy. 
 
Please join me in supporting this project. 
 
Sincerely, 
Stephanie Reyes

--- page 399 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Rendell Bustos
Sent:
Monday, December 7, 2020 10:50 AM
To:
Subject:
RE: peninsula heights
Good morning Mariano, 
 
Thank you for your comment. This comment will be considered by the Planning Commission in advance of tomorrow’s 
Public Hearing. 
 
‐Rendell 
 
Rendell Bustos 
Acting Senior Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650‐522‐7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org  
  
 
 
 
 
 
From: M Svid <msvidler@gmail.com>  
Sent: Monday, December 7, 2020 10:32 AM 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: peninsula heights 
 
Just wanted to voice my support for the Peninsula Heights project. I am a resident of San Mateo (
 and fully 
support the project. 
 
thanks 
Mariano

--- page 400 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Auros Harman 
Sent:
Monday, December 7, 2020 6:40 PM
To:
Planning
Subject:
Meeting of Tue 12/8, Item #2, Peninsula Heights
Dear Planning Commissioners, 
 
I'm a fellow Planning Commissioner, in the town of San Bruno, though I'm writing today only on my own behalf.  I rented 
in San Mateo for several years, and had a great 4.5 mile commute across town from the Los Prados neighborhood, up to 
the SolarCity offices at the west end of Hillsdale, right near the location of the Peninsula Heights planned 
development.  When my spouse and I were house‐hunting in 2016‐17, we initially looked mainly in San Mateo, but 
prices there escalated out of the range we could afford.  The city of San Mateo needs many thousands of new homes at 
all points on the scale.  Without a drastic acceleration of housing production, the service workers who cut our lawns and 
serve our coffee, the cops and teachers employed by our cities, and our own children, are never going to be able to live 
in the same community with us.  This type of development, with townhouses with shared parks, can be a great option 
between smaller apartments and single family residences, and this has historically been a gap in the market in our 
region.  I hope you will advance the project without delay. 
 
Regards, 
Auros Harman

--- page 401 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Cameron Palmer 
Sent:
Monday, December 7, 2020 11:20 PM
To:
Rendell Bustos
Subject:
Peninsula Heights Support
Rendell, 
  
Hope all is well. Can you please submit the below message to the Planning Commission regarding the proposed 
Peninsula Heights project. 
 
 
 
Planning Commission, 
  
Thank you for taking the time to read my comments today. Hope everyone is staying safe during this crazy year. 
  
My name is Cameron Palmer and I have been a resident of San Mateo for over 20 years, having grown up on the 
Peninsula since I was about 5 years old. I am currently married, renting on the Peninsula, and looking to grow our family 
over the coming years.  
  
Like many others, but not all, on the Peninsula and in the Bay Area, I have benefitted in some ways by the tremendous 
growth the area has seen over the past 20 years. However, while I am lucky to have enjoyed some of this incremental 
benefit, the overall growth has also created a real issue for first‐time home buyers (among many other issues the 
Commission is well aware of). My wife and I spend hours a week on Zillow looking for entry‐level homes in the area, 
while constantly being blown away at the pricing levels and lack of supply we see. 
  
When I heard about Peninsula Heights proposing to provide 290 for‐sale residential units with a great variety of unit 
sizes and prices, I was incredibly excited. So many new housing developments over the past 10 years have been 
primarily for rent – which is incredibly important as well! But I really excited to see this project provide Peninsula 
families a chance at a cornerstone of the American dream – home ownership. 
  
The applicant has done a really nice job designing the site to create a space that I feel is really well suited and in 
accordance with the warmth and feel of San Mateo. It has a great combination of functional public open spaces, with 
private elevated open space – which this year has demonstrated is so important to the mental health of people. I 
literally moved from San Francisco back to the Peninsula for some outdoor patio space in our rented apartment. 
  
Unlike many of my longtime friends on the Peninsula, who have largely resorted to moving to the North and East Bay in 
search of their first time home for a future family, I want so badly to be able to start a family on the Peninsula – in San 
Mateo. I find the San Mateo community so welcoming and ideal for raising a family. I strongly encourage the Planning 
Commission to approve this project – and more like this down the road – that will provide much needed first‐time home 
buying opportunities for young professionals looking to start a family. 
  
Thank you again, and have a great day. 
  
Best, 
Cameron 
 
Sent from my iPhone

--- page 402 ---
2

--- page 403 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Rendell Bustos
Sent:
Tuesday, December 8, 2020 8:11 AM
To:
Subject:
RE: Peninsula Heights
Good morning Amanda, 
 
Thank you for your comment. Your comment has been received and will be considered by the Planning Commission for 
this evening’s Public Hearing. 
 
Thanks, 
Rendell Bustos 
 
Rendell Bustos 
Acting Senior Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650‐522‐7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org  
  
 
 
 
 
 
From: Mandy 
 
Date: December 7, 2020 at 5:08:01 PM PST 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Peninsula Heights 
Dear San Mateo Palnning Commission,  
 
I am writing in favor of the Peninsula Heights project. Our community desperately needs more housing. 
When there’s no affordable housing available, workers have to commute long distances, disrupting 
family time and contributing to air pollution. High‐density housing will alleviate this problem.  
 
Thank you. 
 
Amanda Erickson

--- page 404 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Rendell Bustos
Sent:
Tuesday, December 8, 2020 8:12 AM
To:
Subject:
RE: Peninsula Heights
Good morning Thalia, 
 
Thank you for your comment. Your comment has been received and will be considered by the Planning Commission for 
this evening’s Public Hearing. 
 
‐Rendell 
 
Rendell Bustos 
Acting Senior Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650‐522‐7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org  
  
 
 
 
 
 
From: Thalia Lubin <thalia@stlubin.net> 
Date: December 7, 2020 at 6:25:51 PM PST 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Peninsula Heights 
Please vote in support of the 290 homes planned for Peninsula Heights. 
 
This is a good thing to do, especially during the pandemic and with the holidays coming up. 
 
Have the courage to vote for this.....thank you! 
 
Thalia Lubin, Architect 
 
Thalia & Stephen Lubin, Architects

--- page 405 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Rendell Bustos
Sent:
Tuesday, December 8, 2020 8:15 AM
To:
Subject:
RE: Peninsula Heights proposed housing development
Good morning Ken and Chou, 
 
Thank you for your comment. Your comment has been received and will be considered by the Planning Commission for 
this evening’s Public Hearing. 
 
‐Rendell 
 
Rendell Bustos 
Acting Senior Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650‐522‐7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org  
  
 
 
 
 
 
From: Kenneth E Abreu 
> 
Date: December 7, 2020 at 7:56:36 PM PST 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org>, Planning 
<planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Peninsula Heights proposed housing development 
  
To: San Mateo Planning Commission  
 Subject: Peninsula Heights proposed housing development 
We have lived in the Laurelwood area for over 37 years and we support the proposed development to 
convert the office park at Peninsula Heights to residential. However, we do have some suggested 
improvements for the project that the Planning Commission should consider. 
The project is a good one in that it will provide vitally need housing in San Mateo. This is badly needed 
and the conversion of office to housing will improve the jobs/ housing balance in San Mateo. The 
improved bike lane is a good improvement as well 
There are some improvements in the project that we strongly suggest: 
1.       Traffic on Hillsdale is now a problem and this project should be required to make it better during rush 
hours. A key to doing this is making sure that residents use public transportation. As such, the shuttles 
to/from the Hillsdale Caltrain station and El Camino Real should be strongly supported by this project thru 
financial contributions. Also, the bike lanes should be made very safe to get the Hillsdale Caltrain. Also, 
reducing the number of parking spaces will further help encourage better forms of transportation and will 
allow for more units of housing.

--- page 406 ---
2
2.       More housing and more affordable housing would be better. Housing is vitally needed on the 
Peninsula and we should aim to maximize the use of this space, keeping in mind the transportation 
comment above. Higher density will allow for more revenue to the city to fund the needed services in the 
future.  
3.       Parks and pedestrian access should be a major feature. The park area should be at least 3.5 acres. 
The parks should include facilities for children and for dogs. Also, they should include planting of native 
trees and plants to enhance the habitat value for native species and pollinators.  
Thank you for your consideration, 
Ken Abreu and Chou Ning Yu

--- page 407 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Rendell Bustos
Sent:
Tuesday, December 8, 2020 8:33 AM
To:
Subject:
RE: New Homes in San Mateo
Good morning Maria, 
 
Thank you for your comment. Your comment has been received and will be considered by the Planning Commission at 
this evening’s public hearing. 
 
‐Rendell 
 
Rendell Bustos 
Acting Senior Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650‐522‐7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org  
  
 
 
 
 
 
From: rocio rodriguez 
  
Sent: Thursday, December 3, 2020 6:26 PM 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: New Homes in San Mateo 
 
Dear Planning Commission: 
My name María del Rocío Rodríguez and I am writing in support of the 290 new homes in San Mateo! Thank 
you for considering these in our City. This is a great opportunity. I want to see these homes in my community 
because San Mateo is great and we should make more of it. I especially like how it is replacing old office space. 
I am eager to welcome our new neighboring into our community!  
Best, 
María R.  
 
 
Sent from Yahoo Mail for iPhone

--- page 408 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Rendell Bustos
Sent:
Tuesday, December 8, 2020 3:53 PM
To:
Peter Mandle
Cc:
Mike Campbell
Subject:
RE: Peninsula Heights Multi-Family Residential Project, PA-2020-012, Transportation Impact Study
Good afternoon Peter,  
 
Here are the responses consolidated with Public Works, Planning, and Kittelson. Let me know if you have any follow 
questions, thanks! 
 
1. What percentage of the site‐generated traffic is expected to use Hillsdale Avenue between Campus Drive and 
Alameda de Las Pulgas during the AM and PM peak hours?  20 percent of site‐generated traffic is expected to 
use Hillsdale Boulevard between Campus Drive and Alameda de Las Pulgas in both AM and PM peak hours.   
 
2. What was the basis for this estimate?  The report refers to "existing travel volume data and knowledge of 
local travel time data"  but does not describe how it was determined what proportion of the traffic would use 
Campus Drive east of the site rather than Route 92.  How did the analysis account for the differences in the 
circulation patterns of residences vs. those of the employees now working on the site. The estimate, i.e., trip 
distribution patterns, were developed based on current vehicular travel patterns obtained from the turning 
movement counts, the surrounding land uses, and the traffic volume patterns obtained from the C/CAG 
Countywide model in the project site vicinity. The analysis accounted for the differences between future 
residents vs. current employees by looking at the surrounding land uses, i.e., considering a portion of site‐
generated trips to commercial properties, elementary school, middle and high school would be utilizing Hillsdale 
Boulevard to connect to Campus Drive. 
 
3. Why was the Hillsdale Avenue/Alameda de Las Pulgas intersection analyzed but none of the other stop‐sign 
controlled intersections between Campus Drive and the Alameda were analyzed?  The study intersections 
were selected based on existing traffic volume patterns and expected project vehicle trip distribution. The 
Hillsdale Boulevard/Alameda de Las Pulgas and Hillsdale Boulevard/Campus Drive intersections experience 
higher levels of vehicular activity than other stop‐controlled intersections on Hillsdale Boulevard between 
Campus Drive and Alameda de Las Pulgas, which lead to residential land uses and generally experience lower 
traffic volumes. 
 
4. Does the applicant believe that transit riders living in the proposed development will use SamTrans bus routes 
that travel along the Alameda? Based on US Census American Community Survey five‐year estimates (2014‐
2018) for residents within the 94403 ZIP Code where the project site is located, approximately 11% of commute 
trips were transit trips. The proposed project would implement a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) 
Plan to encourage sustainable, automobile‐alternative, modes of transportation and reduce vehicle trips to and 
from the site. Therefore, it is likely that some residents will choose to take transit to/from work and other 
destinations. However, for a more conservative (i.e., worst case) analysis, and in recognition that the existing 
transit service is infrequent (with headways 60 minutes or more), the travel demand estimates do not include an 
adjustment factor to account for transit mode share. 
 
5. Does the applicant believe that cyclists living in the proposed development will use the proposed bike lane 
along the Alameda?   Based on US Census American Community Survey five‐year estimates (2014‐2018) for 
residents within the 94403 ZIP Code where the project site is located, approximately 1% of commute trips were 
bike trips. The bicycle facility on Alameda de Las Pulgas is proposed in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan. The project

--- page 409 ---
2
will construct bike lanes on Campus Drive, and it is anticipated future residents will utilize those facilities to 
connect to existing and future bicycle facilities nearby. The proposed project would implement a TDM Plan to 
encourage sustainable, automobile‐alternative, modes of transportation and reduce vehicle trips to and from 
the site. In addition, the TDM Plan would include an electric bicycle (e‐bike) subsidy, where e‐bikes are beneficial 
in areas like this to make traversing hills easier and more accessible. Therefore, it is likely that some residents 
will choose to bike to/from work and other destinations. However, for a more conservative (i.e., worst case) 
analysis, and recognizing that the project site is located on a steep hill where biking without e‐assist may not be 
an attractive option, the travel demand estimates do not include an adjustment factor to account for bicycle 
mode share. 
 
‐Rendell 
 
Rendell Bustos 
Acting Senior Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650‐522‐7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org  
  
 
 
 
 
 
From: Peter Mandle 
  
Sent: Monday, December 7, 2020 8:40 AM 
To: Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: Peninsula Heights Multi‐Family Residential Project, PA‐2020‐012, Transportation Impact Study 
 
Good morning Mr. Bustos  
 
Thank you for your prompt response to my email. I look forward to the response from Kittelson.  
 
Regards  
Peter  
 
On Dec 7, 2020, at 8:28 AM, Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
  
Good morning Peter, 
  
Thank you for your questions. I received your questions and will follow up with responses from our 
Traffic Consultant as soon as I can. 
  
‐Rendell 
  
<image002.png> 
Rendell Bustos 
Acting Senior Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650‐522‐7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org  
<image003.png> 
   
<image004.png> 
  
<image005.png>

--- page 410 ---
3
  
<image006.png> 
  
<image007.png> 
 
  
From: Peter Mandle <
  
Sent: Sunday, December 6, 2020 8:52 PM 
To: Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Peninsula Heights Multi‐Family Residential Project, PA‐2020‐012, Transportation Impact Study 
  
Hello Mr. Mehra and Mr. Bustos,    
  
I have the following questions regarding the November 2020 Transportation Impact Study prepared by 
Kittelson & Associates as part of the Peninsula Heights Multi‐Family Residential Project: 
  
1. What percentage of the site‐generated traffic is expected to use Hillsdale Avenue between Campus 
Drive and Alameda de Las Pulgas during the AM and PM peak hours?   
2. What was the basis for this estimate?   
‐  The report refers to "existing travel volume data and knowledge of local travel time data"  but does 
not describe how it was determined what proportion of the traffic would use Campus Drive east of the 
site rather than Route 92. 
‐  How did the analysis account for the differences in the circulation patterns of residences vs. those of 
the employees now working on the site.  
3. Why was the Hillsdale Avenue/Alameda de Las Pulgas intersection analyzed but none of the other 
stop‐sign controlled intersections between Campus Drive and the Alameda were analyzed?   
4, Does the applicant believe that transit riders living in the proposed development will use SamTrans 
bus routes that travel along the Alameda? 
5. Does the applicant believe that cyclists living in the proposed development will use the proposed bike 
lane along the Alameda?   
  
  
Thank you for considering these questions. 
  
Regards, 
Peter  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended 
only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is 
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby 
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you 
have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by 
return e‐mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.

--- page 411 ---
Rendell Bustos
a
From: Rendell Bustos

Sent: Tuesday, December 8, 2020 4:36 PM

To:
Subject:

RE: In favor of Peninsula Heights project, Item 2

Good afternoon Jonathan,

Thank you for your comment. Your comment has been received and will be considered by the Planning Commission for
this evening’s public hearing.

-Rendell

Rendell Bustos

Acting Senior Planner | Community Development Department
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403

650-522-7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.or

a air
“tn one } © S & >)

From: Mary Way

Sent: Tuesday, December 8, 2020 4:25 PM

To: Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc: Sailesh Mehra <smehra@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: FW: In favor of Peninsula Heights project, Item 2

From: Jon New

Sent: Tuesday, December 8, 2020 3:59 PM

To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: In favor of Peninsula Heights project, Item 2

Hi, I'm strongly in favor of the Peninsula Heights project. It looks beautiful and supplies a variety of badly needed
housing. It's also close to some great amenities like parks, and the Laurelwood shopping center. | know this area is
considered suburban, but having housing near these amenities is crucial to curtailing car trips, which reduces pollution,
traffic, and our carbon footprint. | hope we can look into ways to continue investing in the area, whether it's more
convenient amenities, or safe bicycle and bus routes.

Thank you!

Jonathan New
San Mateo homeowner.


--- page 412 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 20-3895
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Sailesh Mehra, Planning Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
December 8, 2020 
SUBJECT:
44 E. 3rd Ave. Draper University Pre-Application (PA-2018-054)
RECOMMENDATION:
Preliminary review for proposed building and site design elements and project change of use for 44 E. 3rd Avenue; direction 
is sought and no formal action will be taken.
BACKGROUND:
Project Description
This pre-application submittal includes the addition of an elevator and staircase enclosure and a change of use in a historic 
building. The existing building consists of eight floors, a penthouse level, and a basement. The addition would be located 
towards the rear of the building and would total 429 square feet. The proposed elevator would span from the basement 
and reach up to the penthouse floor, and the proposed staircase would span from the ground floor and reach the 
penthouse floor. The proposed project also includes a 730 square foot roof deck at the penthouse level.
The building is currently occupied by Draper University. Currently, the building consists primarily of retail on the ground 
floor, and dormitory residences on the second through the penthouse floors. The project seeks to convert the seventh, 
eighth, and penthouse floor from dormitories to office. The remaining floors would maintain the same uses.
The project plans are included in Attachment 1. 
Historical Background
The building was constructed in 1926 by a renowned architect William Henry Weeks and originally owned by A.C. Franklin 
and Benjamin Getz. The site operated as the Benjamin Franklin Hotel for 77 years from 1926 to 2003.  The building then 
became vacant from 2003 to 2011, and has since been occupied by Draper University. The Benjamin Franklin building was 
surveyed as part of the City’s Historic Resources Survey in 1989, and has been identified as a contributor to the locally 
designated San Mateo Downtown Historic District. The building is also eligible for listing in the California Register of 
Historical Resources as well as the National Register of Historic Places. The building also appears to qualify as a historical 
resource for purposes of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). A historian conducted an evaluation of the 
existing building in February 2018 to assess the historic integrity and significance of the property. The report can be found 
as Attachment 2. According to the report, the building played a central role in the early-twentieth-century development of 
downtown San Mateo, which was a key reason for its historical significance. The building also serves as a distinct and intact 
example of Spanish Colonial Revival architecture.
Site Description 
The project site is located in downtown in a block bounded by E. 3rd Avenue to the north, E. 4th Avenue to the south, S. El

--- page 413 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Camino Real to the west, and San Mateo Drive to the east. The site is comprised of two parcels totaling 28,283 square feet 
(0.65 acre). The site fronts E. 3rd Avenue, and is adjacent to a restaurant to the west, a privately owned, publicly accessible 
alleyway known as Benjamin Franklin Court to the east, and additional buildings occupied by Draper University to the 
south and across the street to the north. 
The project site is zoned CBD (Central Business District). Various building heights and uses surround the project site. The 
Benjamin Franklin building is the tallest building in the immediate vicinity and is legal non-conforming. Most of the 
buildings immediately adjacent appear to be stores, restaurants, banks and offices which are one- or two-stories tall. 
However, the adjacent retail building to the east appears to be approximately four stories tall, and there are several legal 
non-conforming buildings in downtown that are taller than the Benjamin Franklin building. A location map is included in 
Attachment 3. 
APPLICABLE CODE AND POLICY REVIEW
General Plan
The General Plan’s Land Use Plan designates the project site as Downtown Retail Core. A preliminary list of applicable 
General Plan policies is included in Attachment 4. These include policies pertaining to historic preservation. The project 
substantially conforms to the goals and policies of the General Plan. The project complies with the General Plan’s 
Conservation, Open Space, Parks & Recreation Element Policy 8.1, which states, “Preserve, where feasible, historic 
buildings as follows: … (c) Require that all exterior renovations of historic buildings conform to the Secretary of Interior’s 
Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Structures.” The formal planning application 
submittal will be required to provide clarification and/or documentation to ensure conformance with all applicable policies 
and guidelines. 
Zoning Code Amendments 
The project site is zoned CBD (Central Business District), which includes development standards such as building height, 
maximum floor area ratio (FAR), and setback requirements. The building is legal non-conforming in multiple aspects. For 
instance, the existing historic building has a permitted height of 103 feet and 4 inches, which exceeds the current height 
limit of 55 feet and is therefore legal non-conforming. The proposed height of the elevator and staircase enclosure of 103 
feet and 4 inches would match the existing building height. While the municipal code allows certain structures such as 
“elevator bulkheads” to exceed the height limit per SMMC 27.02.060, it does not speak to structures required for 
accessibility purposes, such as those related to the Americans with Disability Act (ADA). City staff is currently working to 
modify the municipal code to allow limited necessary structures such as those related to accessibility to exceed the bulk 
requirements in San Mateo. The proposed code amendment will come to the Planning Commission and City Council for 
review at a future date. If approved, the code amendment would allow buildings, including those which are legal non-
conforming, to make such accessibility and life safety improvements. 
The building is also legal non-conforming in respect to floor area. The existing building has a permitted floor area ratio 
(FAR) of 3.64, which exceeds the current FAR maximum of 3.0. The proposed FAR would be 3.92. The building, including 
the rooftop penthouse, would not be enlarged outside of required structures for the proposed elevator and staircase 
enclosure. Similar to above, while the municipal code allows certain structures to exceed the bulk requirements, it does 
not speak to structures for life safety improvements, which city staff is currently working to modify. The code amendment 
would serve multiple projects in the city and is expected to be completed prior to this project’s formal planning application 
submittal. 
The proposed addition at the rear of the building would have an interior side yard setback of 5 feet on the ground floor, 
adjacent to the alleyway. This is in conformance with the municipal code requirements for the CBD (Central Business 
District) zoning district, where there are no interior side yard requirements. 
The applicant is expected to provide more details upon filing of the formal planning application, which subsequently will 
be reviewed for conformance with applicable Zoning Code requirements. A list of proposed and required Zoning Code 
standards are detailed in the Data Sheet included in Attachment 5.

--- page 414 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Design Review 
The proposed design will be reviewed by a City design review consultant for consistency with the Downtown Retail Core & 
Downtown Historic District Design Guidelines, General Plan Urban Design Element, and to address concerns expressed by 
the Planning Commission.
Historical Review 
In June 2020, the historian conducted an evaluation of the proposed project to determine whether the proposed design is 
in conformance with the Secretary of Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation (Standards). The Standards promote historic 
preservation best practices by national principles, which are used by Federal, state, and local agencies. The report 
determined that currently, the proposed design is not consistent with the Secretary of Interior Standards, and identified 
areas to be improved as well as design recommendations in order for the project to be considered in conformance to the 
Standards. The report can be found as Attachment 6. The architect has since made several modifications to the building to 
better conform with the Standards as recommended by the historian. A final evaluation is expected to be completed again 
later in the formal application stage to ensure that the final project would conform to the Standards. 
ITEMS FOR DISCUSSION
Proposed Change of Use
The applicant seeks to convert the seventh, eighth, and penthouse floors from residential dormitories for students to 
offices for employees. In 2013, the City approved a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR), Site Development Permit 
(SDP), and Downtown Economic Development Permit (DEDP) Planning Application PA-2012-040 to allow Draper University 
to occupy the building. The Planning Application included several other downtown sites as part of the Draper University 
campus, including the building at 37 E. 4th Avenue, as well as the building and adjacent parking lot at 51 E. 3rd Avenue.  A 
condition of approval stated that should the use ever change, additional approvals shall be required. Because the applicant 
is proposing to convert three floors from dormitories to office, this constitutes a change of use and triggers the Planning 
Commission’s review of this application. 
Building and Site Design

Site Design and Beautification – The addition of the elevator and staircase enclosure would be accessible from 
Benjamin Franklin Court, a publicly accessible alleyway between E. 3rd and E. 4th Avenue. This may be informally 
used as a second main entrance to the building, particularly for employees who would use the elevator to reach 
the office on the upper floors. The entrance would be visible from the pedestrian walkways. There have been 
community concerns regarding the required beautification of this walkway. For example, the storage of the trash 
bins outside has frequently been visible to pedestrians, appearing as unsightly clutter. In addition, there have been 
concerns regarding the quality of the live plants on the living plant wall. (See Attachment 9.) These items were 
important aspects to the approval of PA-2012-040 and were included as conditions of approval. The proposed 
project requires evaluation if the new design would raise issue with these beautification requirements. 

Building Material - The project currently proposes glazing for the elevator addition on the southern elevation and 
at the penthouse level, and stucco cladding with punched windows for the staircase addition. The historian 
expressed concern that the nine-story glazing of the proposed elevator enclosure does not appear to be well-
suited for the building’s Spanish Colonial Revival style. Instead, the historian recommended to continue the stucco 
cladding and windows from the proposed staircase to the elevator enclosure and penthouse lobby. This 
modification would lessen the contemporary feel while still distinguishing the addition from the original building. 
The modification would also bring the project into better conformance with Standard #9, which states, “New 
additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction will not destroy historic materials, features, and spatial 
relationships that characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated from the old and will be 
compatible with the historic materials, features, size, scale and proportion, and massing to protect the integrity of 
the property and its environment.” More information can be found in Attachment 6. Staff recommends following 
the historian’s suggestion so that the project would appear more complementary to the historic building, and to 
help bring the project into conformance to the Secretary of Interior Standards.

--- page 415 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

String Course Decorative Element – The addition currently consists of stucco cladding with windows for the 
stairwell, and glazing for the elevator enclosure on the south elevation. The historian recommended that in 
addition to using stucco cladding with windows for the elevator enclosure, to add a string course as a decorative 
element between the seventh and eighth stories. The historian advised the string course to be “similar to but 
simpler than that on the existing building” to make the project more compatible with the existing building. More 
information can be found in Attachment 6, Standard #9. While it does not appear that this change would be critical 
to bringing the project into conformance with the Standards if the other recommendation regarding building 
material is met, it appears it would be an aesthetically-pleasing alteration. 

Window Style - The existing building primarily consists of rectangular windows, with arched windows only on the 
seventh floor. The project indicates rectangular windows all throughout the entire staircase enclosure. The 
historian recommended providing arched window openings to the south wall of the seventh floor that match the 
existing window openings. More information can be found in Attachment 6, Standard #9. This would continue the 
existing row of arched windows which spans across all four sides of the building. While it does not appear that this 
change would be critical to bringing the project into conformance with the Standards if the other 
recommendations are met, it appears it would make the addition more compatible with the historic building. 
ENTITLEMENTS
As proposed, the project is anticipated to require the following approvals: 
•
Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) for the proposed addition 
•
Special Use Permit or Downtown Economic Development Permit for the proposed change of use from dormitory 
residences to office on the seventh, eighth, and penthouse floors. 
Sample Findings of Approval for the above planning application types are included in Attachment 7. 
PUBLIC COMMENTS
The applicant held a formal pre-application neighborhood meeting on November 12, 2020 in which approximately 27 
members of the public attended. Of the 27 members of the public, most were affiliated with Draper University. Questions 
and comments including the following were expressed:

Concerns of preserving the building’s historic features 

Concerns of trash bin locations being visible from the pedestrian walkway 

Support in change of use from residential dormitories to office, and adding an elevator enclosure to increase 
accessibility
A summary of the neighborhood meeting is included in Attachment 8.
Public comments submitted to City Staff is included in Attachment 9.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION
In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21065, the review of a pre-application is not a project under the 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) because the Planning Commission is not taking action at this time. An 
environmental review will be conducted as part of the formal planning application in conformance with CEQA.
SUMMARY AND NEXT STEPS
At this time, staff is seeking Planning Commission comments and input on the following issues:
1.
Proposed Change of Use – Evaluation of the proposed change in use from residential dormitories to offices on the 
seventh, eighth, and penthouse floors
2.
Building and Site Design – The overall architectural style and design approach, including:

Site Design and Beautification – The location of the elevator enclosure, trash bins, and quality of living 
wall. 

Building Material - The change in elevator exterior materials from glazing to stucco cladding with punched

--- page 416 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
windows 

String Course Decorative Element - Continuing the string course above the seventh floor 

Window Style - Replacing the rectangular windows with arched windows on the seventh floor
Following this Study Session, the applicant will revise the plans as necessary to respond to comments from staff and the 
Planning Commission and submit a formal planning application.
NOTICE PROVIDED
In accordance with the Government Code Section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this study 
session was noticed to the following parties more than ten days in advance of the neighborhood and Planning Commission 
meetings: 
•
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site; 
•
The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects; 
•
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and, 
•
The interested parties list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Project Plans
Att 2 – Historic Resources Evaluation – Appendix C Removed
Att 3 - Location Map
Att 4 – Applicable General Plan Elements and Policies
Att 5 – Project Data Sheet
Att 6 – Secretary of Interior Standards Historic Evaluation
Att 7 – Sample Findings for Project Approvals and Denials 
Att 8 – Neighborhood Meeting Minutes
Att 9 – Public Comments
Att 10 – Public Comments after AR published_redacted
STAFF CONTACT
Wendy Lao, AICP, Associate Planner
wlao@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7219

--- page 417 ---
PLUMBING CALCULATIONS - EXISTING 
PROJECT DIRECTORY
VICINITY MAP
PROJECT SCOPE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
OCCUPANCY LOAD - PROPOSED
BUILDING INFORMATION
OCCUPANCY LOAD - EXISTING
PARKING CALCULATIONS
PLUMBING CALCULATIONS - PROPOSED
BICYCLE PARKING - EXISTING
BICYCLE PARKING - PROPOSED
PARKING REQUIREMENTS - EXISTING
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - COVER SHEET
44 E 3rd Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94401
OCTOBER 8, 2020

--- page 418 ---
DN
DN
DN
E 3rd AVENUE
PRIVATE 
PARKING LOT
PRIVATE 
PARKING LOT
PARCEL NO. 034143080
PARCEL NO. 
034143090
PARCEL NO. 
034143060
PARCEL NO. 
034143050
PARCEL NO. 
034143040
PARCEL NO. 
034143310
PARCEL NO. 
034143230
PARCEL NO. 
034143270
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
POOL
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
SIDEWALK
11' - 6"
10' - 0"
9' - 8"
10' - 0"
PENTHOUSE 
ROOF
FIRST FLOOR
ROOF
2ND
FLOOR
ROOF
SIDEWALK
11' - 6"
50' - 0"
E 3rd AVENUE
EAST ROOF
WEST ROOF
ADDITIONAL (E) BICYCLE 
RACKS ACROSS THE STREET.
52' - 2"
97' - 10"
116' - 0"
127' - 0"
23' - 0"
103' - 1"
4' - 0"
(E) BICYCLE RACK
2ND FLOOR 
ROOF(VAULTED)
(E) ACCESS
MECHANICAL
PENTHOUSE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXISTING SITE PLAN
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | scale: 1" = 10'-0" | AE1
TRUE 
NORTH

--- page 419 ---
UP
ELVR.
EQUIP. ROOM
STORAGE
STORAGE
OFFICE
STORAGE
STORAGE
WALK-IN
COOLER
MACHINE ROOM
TOILET ROOM
STORAGE
STORAGE
STORAGE
LAUNDRY
FIRE PUMP ROOM
ELEC. ROOM
STORAGE
TELCOM. ROOM
WOMEN'S 
R.R.
MEN'S 
R.R.
ELVR.
LOBBY
TOILET 
ROOM
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
(E) STAIR #4
(E) STAIR #5
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXISTING BASEMENT
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" AE2

--- page 420 ---
DN
UP
DN
UP
MAIN 
DINING 
LOBBY
ENTRY
STORAGE
LOUNGE
FIRESIDE 
LOUNGE
BANQUET
POOL
KITCHEN
(E) STREET 
TREE TYP.
(E) SHORT TERM 
BIKE PARKING 2 
BIKES PER RACK
(E) PLANTER.
(E) PLANTER.
(E) GREEN WALL
TO BE DEMO.
(E) ART WALL
TO REMAIN.
BIKE STORAGE
WOMENS
RESTROOM
MENS
RESTROOM
FCC
BAR AREA 
E 3rd AVENUE
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
SIDEWALK
11' - 6"
SIDE WALK
ADJACENT BLDG.
ADJACENT BLDG.
(E) ART WALL
TO REMAIN.
(E) ART WALL
TO REMAIN.
(E) PLANTER.
(E) PLANTER.
8' - 11"
BANQUET BAR
WALK-IN
10' - 6"
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
(E) STAIR #1
(E) STAIR #5
(E) STAIR #4
(E) EXTERIOR EXIT STAIR
DN
UP
(E) STAIR #3
(FIRE ESCAPE)
(E) EASEMENT
RESTAURANT 
STORAGE
DN
(E) GATE WITH 
PANIC HARDWARE
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXISTING GROUND FLOOR
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" AE3

--- page 421 ---
DN
UP
UP
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
MAINTENANCE 
PROPERTY 
MANAGER 
PM 
CONFERENCE 
ROOM
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
PM 
CONFERENCE 
ROOM
WORKOUT 
ROOM 
(E) STAIR #1
OPEN TO BELOW
ELVR. 
LOBBY
DN
(E) FIRST 
FLOOR ROOF
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
ADJACENT BLDG.
ADJACENT BLDG.
(E) EXTERIOR EXIT PATH
(E) STAIR #3
(FIRE ESCAPE)  
E 3rd AVENUE
YOGA 
ROOM 
RESTROOM
REST
ROOM
RESTROOM
REST
ROOM
REST
ROOM
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
(E) EXIT DOOR
(E) EXTERIOR EXIT STAIR
SLOPE 
UP
(E) SLOPE WALK 
UP TO LANDING
(E) STAIR #3
  
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXISTING 2ND FLOOR
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | 1/8" = 1'-0" AE4

--- page 422 ---
DN
UP
(E) STAIR #1
DORM 
ROOM 
ELVR. 
LOBBY
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
HALL
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
2ND 
FLOOR 
ROOF  
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE
2ND 
FLOOR 
ROOF  
(E) STAIR #3
(FIRE ESCAPE)   
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
ADJACENT BLDG.
SERVICE STAIR, 
ONLY OCCURS 
AT 3RD FLOOR
E 3rd AVENUE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
FIRST FLOOR ROOF
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXISTING 3RD - 6TH FLOOR
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" | AE5

--- page 423 ---
DN
UP
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
ELVR. 
LOBBY
(E) STAIR #1
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
HALL
(E) STAIR #3
(FIRE ESCAPE)  
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXISTING 7TH FLOOR
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" | AE6

--- page 424 ---
DN
UP
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
ELVR. 
LOBBY
(E) STAIR #1
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
HALL
(E) STAIR #3
(FIRE ESCAPE) 
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXISTING 8TH FLOOR
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS |OCTOBER 8, 2020| scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" | AE7

--- page 425 ---
(E) STAIR #1
ELVR. 
SERVICE
MECH. ROOM
RESIDENTIAL 
(VACANT)
DN
UP
UP
(E) WEST ROOF 
(E) EAST ROOF 
(E) STAIR #3
(FIRE ESCAPE) 
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
(E) ROOF 
ACCESS STAIR
(E) PRIVATE OFFICE
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXISTING PENTHOUSE
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" | AE8

--- page 426 ---
DN
DN
E 3rd AVENUE
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
POOL
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
A
E
D
C
B
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXISTING SITE PHOTOS
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | AE13
A
B
C
D
E
F
G

--- page 427 ---
DN
DN
DN
10' - 0"
9' - 8"
10' - 0"
SCOPE OF 
WORK
E 3rd AVENUE
15' - 8"
32' - 10"
PRIVATE 
PARKING LOT
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
PRIVATE 
PARKING LOT
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
PARCEL NO. 034143080
PARCEL NO. 
034143090
PARCEL 
NO. 
034143060
PARCEL NO. 
034143050
PARCEL NO. 
034143040
PARCEL NO. 
034143310
PARCEL NO. 
034143230
PARCEL NO. 
034143270
POOL
SIDEWALK
 
 
11' - 10"
(N) GREEN WALL
AT GROUND LEVEL 
THRU 2ND LEVEL.
50' - 0"
E 3rd AVENUE
(N) ELVR./STAIR TOWER ROOF.
(E) PENTHOUSE 
ROOF
(N) PENTHOUSE 
DECK
(E) EAST ROOF
(E) WEST ROOF
ADDITIONAL (E) BICYCLE 
RACKS ACROSS THE 
STREET AT HERO CITY.
116' - 0"
52' - 2"
97' - 10"
PER CIVIL 
TOPOGRAPHIC
SURVEY DATED 
04/11/2012 
103' - 1"
4' - 0"
23' - 0"
127' - 0"
(E) BICYCLE RACK
(N) BICYCLE RACKS
5' - 1"
2ND FLOOR 
ROOF(VAULTED)
(E) ACCESS
 
5' - 0"
 
10' - 0"
LINE INDICATES BUILDING 
BULK SETBACK.
31' - 4"
FIRST FLOOR
ROOF
2ND
FLOOR
ROOF
DN
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
(N) EXTERIOR EXIT STAIR
(E) EXTERIOR EXIT STAIR
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED SITE PLAN
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | scale: 1" = 10'-0" A1

--- page 428 ---
UP
EQUIP. ROOM
STORAGE
STORAGE
STORAGE
STORAGE
STORAGE
(285 SF)
WALK-IN
COOLER
(152 SF)
MACHINE
ROOM
TOILET ROOM
STORAGE
STORAGE
STORAGE
LAUNDRY
FIRE PUMP ROOM
ELEC. ROOM
STORAGE
TELCO. ROOM
WOMEN'S 
R.R.
MEN'S 
R.R.
ELVR.
LOBBY
WATER 
CLOSET
(E) STAIR #5
87' - 2"
97' - 6"
10' - 2"
40' - 6"
61' - 4"
10' - 4"
63' - 4"
MAX. DIAGONAL - BASEMENT LEVEL
132' - 8 1/2"
(N) ELVR. 
(87 SF)
4' - 4"
8' - 8"
SCOPE
OF 
WORK
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
5' - 2"
5' - 2"
10' - 7"
(N) 
STORAGE
(115 SF)
(N) STAIR #4
(113 SF)
5' - 0"
7' - 1"
EXIT SEPARATION - BASEMENT LEVEL
46' - 4 3/4"
5' - 0"
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED BASEMENT
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" A2

--- page 429 ---
UP
DN
UP
DN
(N) ELVR.
(88 SF)
(E) RESTAURANT
(E) LOBBY
ENTRY
CLOSET
(E) LOUNGE
(E) 
FIRESIDE 
LOUNGE
(E) BANQUET
(E) POOL
(N) ELVR. LOBBY
(87 SF)
(E) KITCHEN
(E) STREET 
TREE TYP.
(E) SHORT TERM 
BIKE PARKING 2 
BIKES PER RACK
(E) PLANTER.
(N) GREEN WALL
AT GROUND THRU 
2ND LEVEL.
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
(E) PLANTER.
13' - 6"
40' - 4"
SIDEWALK
11' - 6"
FCC
(E) BIKE STORAGE
WOMENS
RESTROOM
MENS
RESTROOM
10' - 0"
EXISTING
9' - 7"
SCOPE 
OF 
WORK
(E) ART WALL
(N) SHORT TERM 
BIKE PARKING 2 
BIKES PER RACK
ADJACENT BLDG.
ADJACENT BLDG.
E 3rd AVENUE
(E) ART WALL
TO REMAIN.
(E) PLANTER.
(E) PLANTER.
5' - 4"
10' - 7"
5' - 0"
10' - 0"
(N) GREEN WALL
AT GROUND THRU 
2ND LEVEL.
EGRESS DOOR
W/ SIDE LIGHT
5' - 8"
5' - 0"
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
5' - 0"
(N) STAIR #4 
(120 SF)
5' - 0"
3' - 8"
(E) STAIR #5
(E) STAIR #1
(E) EXTERIOR EXIT STAIR
DN
(N) EGRESS DOOR
(E) EGRESS EASMENT
UP
(E) STAIR #3
(FIRE ESCAPE)
(E) EASEMENT
(E) RESTAURANT 
STORAGE
DN
(E) GATE WITH 
PANIC HARDWARE
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED GROUND FLOOR
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" A3

--- page 430 ---
DN
DN
UP
(E) STAIR #1
OPEN TO BELOW
MAINTANCE 
PROPERTY 
MANAGER 
PM 
CONFERANCE 
ROOM
ELVR. 
LOBBY
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
HALL
PM 
CONFERANCE 
ROOM
WORKOUT 
ROOM 
UP
UP
112' - 2"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
(N) ELVR.
(88 SF) 
SCOPE
OF
WORK
(N) ELVR. TOWER SOLID WALL 
EXT. SURFACE TO MATCH 
ADJACENT (E) FINISH
 
 
10' - 0"
103' - 3"
87' - 10"
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
ADJACENT BLDG.
ADJACENT BLDG.
(E) FIRST FLOOR ROOF
CONFIRM (E) CEILING/ROOF HAS 1HR 
MIN. F.R. ASSEMBLY.
(E) EXTERIOR EXIT PATH
(N) GREEN WALL
AT GROUND THRU 
2ND LEVEL.
E 3rd AVENUE
MAX. DIAGONAL  - SECOND FLOOR
135' - 4 3/4"
5' - 1"
DORM 
ROOM 
RESTROOM
REST
ROOM
REST
ROOM
REST
ROOM
WORKOUT 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
(N) EXTERIOR EXIT STAIR
(E) EXTERIOR EXIT STAIR
EXIT SEPARATION - SECOND FLOOR
59' - 5"
(E) EXIT DOOR
(E) EGRESS EASMENT
(E) SLOPE WALK 
UP TO LANDING
SLOPE 
UP
(E) STAIR #3
(FIRE ESCAPE)  
(E) STAIR #3
  
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED 2ND FLOOR
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | 1/8" = 1'-0" A4

--- page 431 ---
UP
UP
10' - 0"
(N) ELVR.
(88 SF)
(E) STAIR #1
(N) CORRIDOR
(69 SF) 
ELVR. LOBBY
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
HALL
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DN
UP
UP
112' - 2"
103' - 3"
SCOPE OF WORK
(N) ELVR./STAIR TOWER EXT. 
FINISH TO MATCH (E) WALL 
FINISH. SEE ELEVS FOR 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
(N) ELVR./STAIR TOWER EXT. FINISH 
TO MATCH (E) WALL FINISH. SEE 
ELEVS FOR ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION.
(N) WDW, 
SEE ELEV.
E 3rd AVENUE
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
ADJACENT BLDG.
(N) STAIR #2
(212 SF) 
2ND FLOOR ROOF 
(VAULTED)
5' - 1"
1' - 1"
3' - 11"
5' - 1"
9' - 8"
23' - 9"
5' - 1"
CLR.
5' - 1"
CLR.
+/- 5' - 8"
DN
(N) EXTERIOR EXIT STAIR 
(E) STAIR #3
(FIRE ESCAPE)  
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
(N) WDW, SEE ELEVS.
(N) VESTIBULE
(35 SF) 
6' - 5"
11' - 0"
(E) 2ND FLOOR ROOF
CONFIRM (E) CEILING/ROOF HAS 1HR 
MIN. F.R. ASSEMBLY.
(N) EXIT DOOR
(N) ALUM. & GLASS WDW 
WALL, SEE ELEVS.
(N) ELVR./STAIR TOWER
(504 SF TOTAL)
(E) FIRST FLOOR ROOF
CONFIRM (E) CEILING/ROOF HAS 1HR 
MIN. F.R. ASSEMBLY.
DRAPER UNIVERISTY - PROPOSED 3RD FLOOR
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" | A5

--- page 432 ---
23' - 9"
10' - 0"
(N) ELVR.
(93 SF)
(E) STAIR #1
ELVR. LOBBY
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
HALL
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DN
UP
(E) 2ND FLOOR 
ROOF BELOW 
UP
112' - 2"
103' - 3"
SCOPE OF WORK
E 3rd AVENUE
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
ADJACENT BLDG.
(E) STAIR #3
(FIRE ESCAPE) 
(N) STAIR #2
(213 SF) 
2ND FLOOR ROOF 
(VAULTED)
5' - 1"
15' - 8"
1' - 1"
3' - 11"
MAX DIAGONAL - 4TH TO 6TH FLOOR
111' - 9 3/4"
5' - 1"
9' - 8"
5' - 1"
10' - 7"
CLR.
5' - 1"
CLR.
+/- 5' - 8"
DN
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
6' - 5"
(N) CORRIDOR
(69 SF) 
(N) VESTIBULE
(35 SF) 
(N) ELVR./STAIR TOWER EXT. 
FINISH TO MATCH (E) WALL 
FINISH. SEE ELEVS FOR 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
(N) ELVR./STAIR TOWER EXT. FINISH 
TO MATCH (E) WALL FINISH. SEE 
ELEVS FOR ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION.
(N) WDW, 
SEE ELEV.
(N) WDW, SEE ELEVS.
(N) ALUM. & GLASS WDW 
WALL, SEE ELEVS.
(N) ELVR./STAIR TOWER
(500 SF TOTAL)
(N) WDW, SEE ELEVS.
EXIT SEPARATION - 4TH TO 6TH FLOOR
91' - 1"
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED 4TH - 6TH FLOOR
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" | AE5.5

--- page 433 ---
EXIT SEPARATION - 7TH FLOOR
98' - 4"
(N) WOMENS
R.R.
(N) MENS
R.R.
ELVR. LOBBY
(N) ELVR.
(88 SF) 
(N) STAIR
(213 SF) 
(N) OPEN OFFICE
(4,646 SF)
5' - 6"
52' - 11"
103' - 3"
DN
UP
(E) STAIR #1
15' - 8"
SCOPE OF WORK
(N) CORRIDOR
(69 SF)
5' - 1"
23' - 9"
73' - 8"
9' - 0"
19' - 7"
MAX. DIAGONAL - 7TH FLOOR
115' - 5"
9' - 8"
5' - 1"
8 1/2"
UP
DN
+/- 4' - 5"
(E) STAIR #3
(FIRE ESCAPE)  
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
6' - 5"
(N) VESTIBULE
(35 SF) 
(N) ELVR./STAIR TOWER EXT. 
FINISH TO MATCH (E) WALL 
FINISH. SEE ELEVS FOR 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
(N) ELVR./STAIR TOWER EXT. FINISH 
TO MATCH (E) WALL FINISH. SEE 
ELEVS FOR ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION.
(N) WDW, 
SEE ELEV.
(N) ALUM. & GLASS WDW 
WALL, SEE ELEVS.
(N) ALUM. & GLASS WDW 
WALL, SEE ELEVS.
(N) ELVR./STAIR TOWER
(521 SF TOTAL)
(N) WDW, SEE ELEVS.
(N) ELVR. LOBBY
(54 SF) 
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED 7TH FLOOR OPEN OFFICE
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" | A6

--- page 434 ---
UP
DN
DN
UP
ELVR. LOBBY
(E) STAIR #1
MAX. DIAGONAL - 8TH FLOOR
115' - 5"
(N) OPEN OFFICE
(4,646 SF)
73' - 8"
52' - 11"
103' - 3"
5' - 6"
PROPERTY LINE
(N) WOMENS
R.R.
(N) MENS
R.R.
SCOPE OF WORK
(N) ELVR.
(88 SF) 
(N) CORRIDOR 
(69 SF)
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
(E) STAIR #3
(FIRE ESCAPE)  
(N) STAIR
(213 SF) 
23' - 9"
9' - 0"
19' - 7"
9' - 8"
5' - 1"
8 1/2"
EXIT SEPARATION - 8TH FLOOR
98' - 6"
6' - 5"
+/- 4' - 5"
(N) VESTIBULE
(35 SF) 
(N) ELVR./STAIR TOWER EXT. 
FINISH TO MATCH (E) WALL 
FINISH. SEE ELEVS FOR 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
(N) ELVR./STAIR TOWER EXT. FINISH 
TO MATCH (E) WALL FINISH. SEE 
ELEVS FOR ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION.
(N) WDW, 
SEE ELEV.
(N) ALUM. & GLASS WDW 
WALL, SEE ELEVS.
(N) ALUM. & GLASS WDW 
WALL, SEE ELEVS.
(N) ELVR./STAIR TOWER
(521 SF TOTAL)
(N) WDW, SEE ELEVS.
(N) ELVR. LOBBY
(54 SF) 
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED 8TH FLOOR OPEN OFFICE
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" | A7

--- page 435 ---
DN
(E) STAIR #1
(E) ELVR. 
SERVICE
(E) MECH. 
ROOM
73' - 8"
103' - 3"
(N) OPEN OFFICE
(953 SF)
(N) ELVR.
(93 SF) 
(N) STAIR #2
(214 SF) 
DN
UP
16' - 9"
DN
SCOPE OF WORK
(N) ROOF 
DECK
(730 SF) 
WEST ROOF 
EAST ROOF 
(N) OPEN-AIR
COVERED ARCADE 
(436 SF)
(N) WINDOW 
OPENING 
(N) WOMENS
R.R.
(N) MENS
R.R.
(N) OPEN 
ARCADE
10' - 7"
23' - 9"
9' - 8"
5' - 1"
2' - 8"
1' - 6"
(N) PORCELAIN 
PAVER ROOF DECK 
SEE A8/BB  
(E) DOORS TO REMAIN  
(N) GLASS DOOR 
(N) ALUM. + GLASS 
STOREFRONT
(N) ALUM. + GLASS 
STOREFRONT, TYP. 
(N) PENTHOUSE LOBBY
(221 SF)
(N) GLASS DOOR 
(N) 2HR F.R. TRANSPARENT 
WALL PANEL AND 90 MIN. 
F.R. GLASS DOOR
(N) GLASS DOOR  
(E) WINDOW
(E) STAIR #3
(FIRE ESCAPE)  
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
(N) GLASS RAILING
(N) GLASS RAILING
(N) OPENING
5' - 5"
4' - 0"
5' - 9"
(N) VESTIBULE
(35 SF) 
W/ 2HR F.R. ENCLOSURE
W/ EXHAUST FAN
(N) EXIT PATH
(E) ROOF 
ACCESS STAIR
(N) GATE 
(N) ELVR./STAIR TOWER EXT. 
FINISH TO MATCH (E) WALL 
FINISH. SEE ELEVS FOR 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
(N) ALUM. & GLASS WDW 
WALL, SEE ELEVS.
(N) ELVR./STAIR TOWER
(521 SF TOTAL)
(N) ALUM. & GLASS WDW WALL, 
SEE ELEVS.
(N) S.S. + GLASS 
GUARDRAIL, TYP.
(N) S.S. + GLASS 
GUARDRAIL, TYP.
(E) PRIVATE OFFICE
(E) STAIR ENCLOSURE
(N) ALUM. + GLASS STOREFRONT, TYP.
(N) 2HR F.R. WALL
(N) 2HR F.R. WALL
GROUND FLOOR
0' - 0"
PENTHOUSE
FLOOR
89' - 4"
6' - 0"
(E) BLDG
ACROSS THE
STREET
PROPOSED RAILING
DRAPER UNIVERSITY CHANGE OF USE - PENTHOUSE
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" | A8
AA
BB

--- page 436 ---
DN
DN
UP
(E) STAIR #1
OPEN TO BELOW
MAINTANCE 
PROPERTY 
MANAGER 
PM 
CONFERANCE 
ROOM
ELVR. 
LOBBY
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
HALL
PM 
CONFERANCE 
ROOM
WORKOUT 
ROOM 
UP
UP
(N) ELVR.
(88 SF) 
SCOPE
OF
WORK
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
ADJACENT BLDG.
ADJACENT BLDG.
(E) FIRST FLOOR ROOF
CONFIRM (E) CEILING/ROOF HAS 1HR 
MIN. F.R. ASSEMBLY.
(E) EXTERIOR EXIT PATH
E 3rd AVENUE
MAX. DIAGONAL  - SECOND FLOOR
135' - 4 3/4"
DORM 
ROOM 
RESTROOM
REST
ROOM
REST
ROOM
REST
ROOM
WORKOUT 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
(E) STAIR #3
(FIRE ESCAPE ABOVE)  
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
(N) EXTERIOR EXIT STAIR
(E) EXTERIOR EXIT STAIR
EXIT SEPARATION - SECOND FLOOR
59' - 5"
(E) EXIT DOOR
(E) EGRESS EASMENT
(E) SLOPE WALK UP TO LANDING
SLOPE 
UP
EXIT
EXIT
EXIT
CPET = 41 FT
*
*
33
34
33
2HR F.R. ELVR SHAFT 
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXITING PLAN - 2ND FLOOR
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" | A8.5
PROPOSED OCCUPANCY - 2ND FLOOR
R-2, RESIDENTIAL
PROPOSED OCCUPANCY LOAD -  2ND FLOOR
USE
SF 
SF/OC
NO. OF OCC.
__________________________________________________________________
RESIDENTIAL R-2  /  WORKOUT RM
2362
SF/50
48
ASSEMBLY
634
SF/15
43
EQUIPMENT / STORAGE
165
SF/300
1
ELEVATOR LOBBY / RESTROOM /
1080
SF/150
8
ACCESSORY
__________________________________________________________________
TOTAL
4241
100
NUMBER OF EXITS - 2ND FLOOR
EXITS REQUIRED
2
EXITS PROVIDED:
3
COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL - 2ND FLOOR
CPET = 41 FT

--- page 437 ---
UP
UP
ELVR.
(88 SF)
STAIR #1
CORRIDOR
(69 SF) 
ELVR. LOBBY
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
HALL
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DN
UP
UP
SCOPE OF WORK
E 3rd AVENUE
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
ADJACENT BLDG.
STAIR #2
(212 SF) 
2ND FLOOR ROOF 
(VAULTED)
CLR.
5' - 1"
CLR.
+/- 5' - 8"
DN
(N) EXTERIOR EXIT STAIR 
STAIR #3
(FIRE ESCAPE)  
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
VESTIBULE
(35 SF) 
(E) 2ND FLOOR ROOF
CONFIRM (E) CEILING/ROOF HAS 1HR 
MIN. F.R. ASSEMBLY.
MAXIMUM DIAGONAL DISTANCE - 3RD FLOOR
115' - 11"
(N) STANDPIPE
2HR F.R. STAIR + 
VESTIBULE ENCLOSURE 
W/ 90 MIN. F.R. DOORS
2HR F.R. ELVR SHAFT W/ 
ROLL-DN SMOKE 
CURTAIN AT ELVR DOOR 
TYP. ALL FLOORS 
EXCEPT GROUND LVL.
EXIT SEPARATION - 3RD FLOOR
91' - 3"
EXIT
EXIT
EXIT
CPET = 46 FT
*
*
(E) FIRST FLOOR ROOF
CONFIRM (E) CEILING/ROOF HAS 1HR 
MIN. F.R. ASSEMBLY.
21
21
21
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXITING PLAN - 3RD FLOOR
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" | A9
TRUE 
NORTH
PROPOSED OCCUPANCY - 3RD FLOOR
R-2, RESIDENTIAL
PROPOSED OCCUPANCY LOAD - 3RD FLOOR
USE
SF 
SF/OC
NO. OF OCC.
__________________________________________________________________
RESIDENTIAL R-2  
2479
SF/50
51
EQUIPMENT / STORAGE
    
62
SF/300
1
ELEVATOR LOBBY / ACCESSORY
  886
SF/150
6
__________________________________________________________________
TOTAL
3427
63
NUMBER OF EXITS - 3RD FLOOR
EXITS REQUIRED
2
EXITS PROVIDED:
3
COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL - 3RD FLOOR
CPET = 46 FT

--- page 438 ---
DN
STAIR #1
ELVR. SERVICE
(244 SF)
1 OCC.
MECH. ROOM
(294 SF)
1 OCC.
OPEN OFFICE
(953 SF)
7 OCC.
ELVR.
(93 SF) 
DN
UP
DN
SCOPE OF WORK
ROOF DECK
(730 SF)
49 OCC. 
WEST ROOF 
EAST ROOF 
WOMENS
R.R.
MENS
R.R.
EXIT SEPARATION - PENTHOUSE LEVEL
91' - 3"
STAIR #3
(FIRE ESCAPE)  
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
CLR.
4' - 1"
4' - 0"
STAIR #2
(214 SF) 
PENTHOUSE LOBBY
(221 SF)
VESTIBULE
(35 SF) 
W/ 2HR F.R. 
ENCLOSURE
W/ EXHAUST 
FAN
EXIT
EXIT
EXIT
MAXIMUM DIAGONAL DISTANCE - PENTHOUSE LEVEL
118' - 7"
EXIT
EXIT
EXIT
EXIT
ROOF ACCESS 
STAIR
(N) STANDPIPE
2HR F.R. STAIR + 
VESTIBULE ENCLOSURE 
W/ 90 MIN. F.R. DOORS
2HR F.R. ELVR SHAFT W/ 
ROLL-DN SMOKE 
CURTAIN AT ELVR DOOR 
TYP. ALL FLOORS 
EXCEPT GROUND LVL.
(N) OPEN-AIR, COVERED 
ARCADE W/ SPRINKLERS
PRIVATE OFFICE
(195 SF)
2 OCC.
CPET = 22 FT
CPET = 22 FT
*
*
*
*
22
21
22
(E) STAIR ENCLOSURE
(N) 2HR F.R. WALL
(N) 2HR F.R. WALL
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXITING PLAN - PENTHOUSE
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" | A10
PROPOSED OCCUPANCY - PENTHOUSE LEVEL
B, BUSINESS
A-3, ASSEMBLY
PROPOSED OCCUPANCY LOAD - PENTHOUSE LEVEL
USE
SF 
SF/OC
NO. OF OCC.
__________________________________________________________________
OPEN OFFICE
953
SF/150
7
PRIVATE OFFICE
     
195
SF/150
2
EQUIPMENT / MECH.
538
SF/300
2
LOBBY/ARCADE
657
SF/150
5
ASSEMBLY / ROOF DECK
735
SF/15
49
__________________________________________________________________
TOTAL
3078
65
NUMBER OF EXITS - PENTHOUSE LEVEL
EXITS REQUIRED
2
EXITS PROVIDED:
3
COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL - PENTHOUSE LEVEL
CPET = 90 FT

--- page 439 ---
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED NORTH ELEVATION
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | Scale: 1
8" = 1'-0" | A9

--- page 440 ---
DRAPER UNIVERSITY
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED EAST ELEVATION
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | Scale: 1
8" = 1'-0" |A10
2-ENLARGED ELEVATION

--- page 441 ---
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED SOUTH ELEVATION
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | Scale: 1
8" = 1'-0" |A11

--- page 442 ---
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED WEST ELEVATION
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | Scale: 1
8" = 1'-0" |A12

--- page 443 ---
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED NORTH ELEVATION RENDER
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | A13

--- page 444 ---
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED SOUTHEAST ELEVATION RENDER
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | A14

--- page 445 ---
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED SOUTH ELEVATION RENDER
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | A15

--- page 446 ---
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED NORTH ELEVATION RENDER
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | A16

--- page 447 ---
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED EAST ELEVATION RENDER
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | OCTOBER 8, 2020 | A17

--- page 448 ---
Architecture
Planning
Conservation
Prepared for
City of San Mateo
Prepared by
Architectural Resources Group, Inc. 
San Francisco, California
February 2018
34-50 E. Third Avenue 
Historic Resource EvaluaƟ on

--- page 449 ---


--- page 450 ---
34‐50 E. Third Avenue 
Historic Resource Evaluation 
San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
1. Introduction .................................................................................................................................................. 1 
1.1 Project Background ................................................................................................................................................. 1 
1.2 Methodology ........................................................................................................................................................... 2 
2. Property Description and History ................................................................................................................. 2 
2.1 Property Description ................................................................................................................................................ 2 
2.2 Construction Chronology ......................................................................................................................................... 5 
3. Historic Context ............................................................................................................................................ 9 
3.1 Settlement of San Mateo ........................................................................................................................................ 9 
3.2 Downtown Development in San Mateo ................................................................................................................ 11 
3.3 Benjamin Franklin Hotel ........................................................................................................................................ 15 
3.4 W.H. Weeks, Architect ........................................................................................................................................... 19 
3.5 Spanish Colonial Revival Architecture ................................................................................................................... 22 
4. Evaluative Framework ................................................................................................................................ 23 
4.1 California Register of Historical Resources ........................................................................................................... 23 
4.2 CEQA and Historical Resources ............................................................................................................................. 25 
5. Evaluation ................................................................................................................................................... 26 
5.1 California Register of Historical Resources ........................................................................................................... 26 
5.2 Integrity Analysis ................................................................................................................................................... 28 
6. Conclusion .................................................................................................................................................. 29 
7. Bibliography ................................................................................................................................................ 30 
 
Appendix 
Appendix A: Existing Conditions Photographs 
 
Appendix B: Historic Photographs 
Appendix C: Building Permits and Drawings 
Appendix D: Sanborn Fire Insurance Maps

--- page 451 ---
(EN
bE


--- page 452 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
1 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
1.1 Project Background 
 
 
At the request of the City of San Mateo Planning Division, Architectural Resources Group (ARG) 
completed this Historic Resource Evaluation (HRE) for the property at 34‐50 E. Third Avenue (APNs: 034‐
143‐240, ‐280, ‐290) in downtown San Mateo, California (Figure). The purpose of this evaluation is to 
assess the historic integrity and significance of the property under the California Environmental Quality 
Act (CEQA), including identification of which aspects of the property contribute to that significance. In 
1926, prolific local architect William Henry Weeks designed the commercial building at the request of 
original owners A.C. Franklin and Benjamin Getz. The building served as the Benjamin Franklin Hotel from 
1926 to 2003, was vacant from 2003 to 2011, and has since been used by Draper University. The property 
was previously surveyed as part of the City of San Mateo’s historic resources survey completed in 1989. 
The building was assigned Status Code 3/3D indicating it appears individually eligible for listing in the 
National Register of Historic Places (National Register) and as a contributor to the locally designated San 
Mateo Downtown Historic District.1 
 
 
Figure 1. Aerial photograph of the subject property and immediate vicinity  
(Google Earth, amended by author) 
                                                                
1 San Mateo County Historical Association, City of San Mateo Historic Building Survey Final Report, September 1989, 
accessed December 4, 2017, http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/47850.  
N

--- page 453 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
2 
 
1.2 Methodology 
To complete this HRE, ARG visited the subject property on December 13, 2017 to photograph the building 
and the surrounding setting and to document the architectural features, and condition of the commercial 
property. ARG also reviewed the building permit history provided by San Mateo Planning Division staff 
and conducted archival research at the following repositories: 
 
 
San Mateo Public Library 
 
San Mateo County Historical Association Archives 
 
San Mateo County Recorder’s Office 
 
San Francisco Heritage Archives 
 
digital repositories, including the Sanborn Fire Insurance Company map collection, David Rumsey 
Historical Map Collection, United States Geological Survey (USGS) EarthExplorer, Ancestry.com, 
Newspapers.com, San Francisco Chronicle database, Online Archive of California, Internet 
Archive, Avery Index to Architectural Periodicals, and Pacific Coast Architecture Database  
The background research included a review of historic photographs, maps, newspaper clippings, and 
primary and secondary documents regarding the development of the subject property and the 
surrounding downtown commercial district as well as the original owners, A.C. Franklin and Benjamin 
Getz.  
 
2. PROPERTY DESCRIPTION AND HISTORY 
A physical description and construction history of the subject property are presented below; additional 
photographs are provided in Appendix A.  
2.1 Property Description 
The subject property at 34‐50 E. Third Avenue is located at the western edge of San Mateo’s downtown 
commercial district, on a rectangular parcel (APNs: 034‐143‐240, ‐280, ‐290) in the block bounded by E. 
Third Avenue, S. El Camino Real, E. Fourth Avenue, and S. San Mateo Drive. Other businesses, including 
restaurants, jewelers, spas and salons, bars, and retail stores, line the commercial corridor to the east and 
west along E. Third Avenue. 
 
The subject property contains a large, mixed‐use eight‐story plus penthouse concrete building that is 
flush with the sidewalk. The building is largely symmetrical, contains a flat roof and parapet, and is clad in 
stucco. The north façade of the building (facing E. Third Avenue) is divided into eight bays. The façade is 
relatively simple in design, with the exception of Churrigueresque ornamentation at the second and 
uppermost stories. The corners on the north façade, from the ground level to the roof, are set in from the 
face of the building, contributing to its overall vertical emphasis.  
 
The penthouse, located within the central bays of the building, rises one story above the hotel block and 
features a silhouetted plaster ornament that projects above the parapet. The penthouse’s north windows 
consist of a central wood sash double‐hung window flanked by blind windows. These windows feature 
elaborate lintels and surrounds in the Churrigueresque style.

--- page 454 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
3 
 
Three entrances, none of them original, are located on the ground floor of the subject property. The main 
entrance, a recessed entry located at the center of the façade, consists of two metal fully‐glazed doors 
with metal transom and sidelights. The entry also features terrazzo flooring with “Benjamin Franklin” 
inscribed in the center of the floor. Additional features include recessed lighting, two display 
cases/lightboxes on either side of the entrance, and a large canopy projecting over the entry and sidewalk 
surmounted by letters reading “DRAPER UNIVERSITY.” A second entrance, located to the west of the main 
entrance, is slightly recessed and consists of two fully‐glazed metal doors flanked with fixed metal 
sidelights. An overhead canopy extends from the entry. A third entrance, located to the east of the main 
entrance, is also slightly recessed and contains a single fully‐glazed wood door with wood sash divided 
sidelights. A metal canopy extends above the entry.  
 
Ground floor fenestration consists of wood sash casement windows, fixed wood sash divided‐light 
windows, fixed wood sash windows, and fixed metal windows. Fenestration on the second through eighth 
floors consists of three‐over‐three, double‐hung, wood sash divided‐light windows. The windows on the 
second floor contain elaborate window surrounds in the Churrigueresque style. A molded stringcourse 
runs along the top of, and between, the second story windows. A second molded stringcourse runs along 
the north façade, between the seventh and eighth floors. The eight‐floor windows of the second and 
seventh bays are flanked by paired colonettes and curved parapets, also in the Churrigueresque style.  
 
 
Figure 2. North façade, view south (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 455 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
4 
 
South Façade 
Similar to the north façade, the south façade is largely symmetrical and contains elaborate 
Churrigueresque ornamentation that provides definition to an otherwise simple stucco façade. 
Additionally, there are double‐height single‐story wings projecting from the main eight‐story building at 
the rear.  
 
Fenestration on the south façade is symmetrical and consists of three‐over‐three, double‐hung, wood 
sash divided‐light windows and fixed six‐light wood‐sash windows. Window openings include both arched 
and squared openings. Additionally, the rear double‐height single‐story wing contains three sets of wood 
fully‐glazed doors flanked by divided sidelights and transoms. Other entrances on the south façade 
consist of paired fully‐glazed divided‐light wood doors.  
 
On the south façade of the rear wing extension is an entrance to a cafeteria. The entrance is recessed, 
clad in brick, and contains a set of fully‐glazed divided‐light wood doors. An additional entrance on the 
roof of the projecting wing consists of a single fully‐glazed wood door flanked on the right by a wood sash 
window. 
 
Additional features of the south façade include a chimney topped with a clay‐tile cap, exterior wall vents 
located within the penthouse, a fan‐shaped pool, various light fixtures, a metal pergola, two metal 
staircases, and a metal gate that encompasses the rear portion of the property.  
 
 
Figure 3. South facade, view north (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 456 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
5 
 
East and West Façades 
The east and west façades are mirror images, rising eight stories in height with simple planar walls that 
are clad in stucco. The façades contain symmetrical fenestration, which consists of three‐over‐three, 
double‐hung, wood sash divided‐light windows, smaller double‐hung wood sash windows, and several 
blind windows. There are Churrigueresque panels located above the seventh story windows. Atop the 
east façade is a slightly‐projecting sign spelling “DRAPER UNIVERSITY.” The first two floors of the west 
façade are obscured by an adjacent property. The west façade includes a metal fire escape with platforms 
located at each floor of the building accessed via windows; these windows consist of wood sash casement 
windows flanked on one side with a wood sash sidelight. 
 
The east façade also contains a pedestrian walkway that runs along the façade to a rear alley, connecting 
to E. Fourth Avenue via Ben Franklin Court. The walkway also connects to a secondary service entrance, 
which is located behind a metal gate and cinderblock wall. The service entrance consists of a single metal 
door. Additionally, there are sets of metal divided‐light pivot and fixed windows on the ground floor of 
the east façade, some of which contain vents. 
 
 
Figure 4. East façade, view southwest (ARG, 
December 2017) 
Figure 5. West façade, view southeast (ARG, 
December 2017) 
2.2 Construction Chronology 
The following construction chronology was compiled using building permits, architectural drawings, 
Sanborn Fire Insurance Maps, archival research, and aerial photographs.  
 
The parcel at 34‐50 E. Third Avenue was originally developed in the 1880s as part of the de Guigne Estate. 
According to a 1920 Sanborn map (Figure 6), the parcel consisted of a dwelling at the center of the site, 
as well as a number of vacant buildings situated on the southeast corner of the parcel. During this time, 
Fourth Avenue ended abruptly near today’s San Mateo Drive, and other single‐family residences occupied 
adjacent lots to the south and east. By the mid‐1920s, the de Guigne Estate was sold and subdivided, 
Fourth Avenue was expanded west to El Camino Real through the de Guigne Estate, and San Mateo Drive 
was extended through the eastern end of the former estate. In 1926, A.C. Franklin and Benjamin Getz 
commissioned architect W.H. Weeks to design the Benjamin Franklin Hotel on the subject property. In

--- page 457 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
6 
 
the early 1950s, the Best family purchased the property and conducted several renovations and 
refurbishments including redoing the Willow Room, the Fireside Room, and the Club Seville.  
 
In 1985, Westin Hotels, a subsidiary of UAL Inc., purchased the property from the Best family and 
performed a $3 million restoration of the hotel, which included remodeling the guest rooms, bringing the 
lobby back to its original condition, making improvements in the swimming pool area, installing air‐
conditioning, installing a new telephone system, upgrading the life‐safety system, remodeling the kitchen, 
and painting the interior and exterior.2 Four years later, in 1989, the Empire Group (listed as Benjamin 
Franklin Associates and Empire 44 Inc. on San Mateo County assessor records) purchased the property 
from Westin Hotels, and in 1993 the building underwent repairs to the exterior walls, corbels, panels, and 
medallions. 
 
 
Figure 6. 1920 Sanborn Fire Insurance Map, San Mateo, California, Sheet 26; the 
arrow indicates the approximate location of the subject property. 
 
In 2005, AF Evans Co. (listed as AFE‐Benjamin Franklin, LLC. on county assessor records) purchased the 
property with plans to convert the hotel into condominiums. AF Evans’ project was never realized, and in 
2007, the company sold the property to CitiSuites, a subsidiary of the Lembi Group (listed as Trophy 
Properties XI LLC. on county assessor records). In 2008, the company began a major renovation on the 
hotel that was never completed due to the real estate market crash. The property was subsequently sold 
to UBS Financial Services, and in 2011, the property was purchased by Tim Draper, doing business as 
Heart of San Mateo LLC, who began operating Draper University out of the former hotel. In 2013, Heart 
of San Mateo LLC replaced the storefront and exterior doors and windows, installed a new entrance 
canopy, installed new second floor court exterior stairs, painted the exterior of the building, and 
completed interior partition work. 
 
                                                                
2 This project is not on file with the city of San Mateo’s building permit record for the subject property. Information 
on this project was gathered through archival research.

--- page 458 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
7 
 
The following table summarizes permit records regarding the building available at the San Mateo County 
Recorder’s Office. 
 
 
Figure 7. 1946 aerial photograph; the arrow indicates the location of the 
subject property. (USGS EarthExplorer, amended by author) 
 
Table 1. Construction Chronology 
Year  
Permit No.  
Architect/Builder  
Description of Work 
1954 
25945 
Leonard Michaels, 
architect 
Remodeling of banquet room (cafeteria), including door and 
window replacements (footprint remained unchanged) 
1993 
30134 
The Bentley Company, 
engineers and 
architects  
Replace projecting watertable, replace additional anchorage of 
watertable, replace medallion panel, provide additional 
anchorage of wall panels, patch corbel, repair pilaster, anchor 
loose finial, provide additional anchorage of finial, repair crack  
1996 
34415 
Architecture & Light, 
architects 
Interior renovations for Lark Creek Cafe restaurant 
2008 
231514 
Timothy John Murphy, 
architect 
Paint exterior, install new lighting fixtures, repair and preserve 
the “Benjamin Franklin Hotel” signs at the top of the building, 
remove existing storefront awnings/canopies and install new 
storefront awnings/canopies, upgrade storefronts and the 
hotel entrance, and interior remodeling of the hotel’s lobby 
and fireside lounge areas 
2013 
 
TMDA 
New exterior paint, new entrance canopy, new 
storefront/exterior doors and windows, new exterior screen 
banners, new second floor court exterior stairs, new fence at 
second floor court, interior partition work

--- page 459 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
8 
 
 
Figure 8. Detail of 1950 Sanborn Fire Insurance Map, San Mateo, California, Sheet 27; the arrow indicates 
the location of the subject property. 
 
All three entries on the building’s north façade have been replaced with fully glazed doors and sidelights. 
The following April 2011 photograph shows the state of the storefronts prior to the 2013 restoration of 
the west storefront to generally match the windows and transom at the east storefront.   
 
 
Figure 9. View of north façade storefronts, looking southeast (Google Street View, April 2011).

--- page 460 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
9 
 
 
Figure 10. Penthouse at north façade, view south (ARG, December 2017). 
 
The permit record for the building does not address modifications that may have been made to the 
penthouse. Regardless, the penthouse’s historically important features consist of those features that are 
visible on the building’s north façade, including the elaborate Churrigueresque window surrounds and 
parapet, along with the penthouse profile rising one story above the adjoining roofline. The east and 
south walls of the penthouse are not visible from the public right‐of‐way, and the south façade consists of 
a plain wall with two small windows.   
 
3. HISTORIC CONTEXT 
3.1 Settlement of San Mateo 
In 1856, the California State Legislature passed the Consolidation Act creating San Mateo County from the 
southern portion of San Francisco County, which originally extended from the northern tip of the 
peninsula south to Palo Alto. The following decade, the San Francisco and San Jose Railroad began 
offering train service along the peninsula, connecting its namesake cities by rail in 1864. San Mateo 
developed into a small village at the crossroads between this north‐south railroad (which ran 
approximately three blocks east of the subject property) and a stagecoach road extending east‐west from 
San Francisco Bay to the Pacific.3  
 
The new rail connection, which was absorbed by the Southern Pacific Railroad in 1868, provided easy 
access to San Mateo County for both tourists and wealthy San Franciscans who desired weekend and 
summer residences in the countryside. A particular tourist highlight was Crystal Springs Canyon, located 
approximately 3.25 miles west of the subject property. San Francisco businessmen and their families, 
                                                                
3 Mitchell Postel, San Mateo: A Centennial History (San Francisco:  Scottwall Associates, 1994), 19, 27; Alan Hynding, 
From Frontier to Suburb: the Story of the San Mateo Peninsula (Belmont, California: Star Publishing Company, 1982), 
57‐58.

--- page 461 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
10 
 
such as the Howards, Taylors, and Parrotts, purchased large parcels of land along the railroad, erected 
grand mansions, and employed villagers as servants and skilled craftsman to maintain their estates.4  
 
Concurrent with the establishment of San Mateo County and the construction of the railroad, Charles B. 
Polhemus established one of the earliest commercial districts in San Mateo. In the 1850s, Polhemus, a 
director of the San Francisco and San Jose Railroad, began buying up land along San Mateo Creek 
assuming that the future railroad would increase the property value. Polhemus was able to steer the 
location of the railroad tracks through the eastern portion of his holdings in San Mateo. He commissioned 
a survey to plot a new subdivision roughly bounded by the creek to the north (approximately at present‐
day Baldwin Avenue), Fifth Avenue to the south, A Street (present‐day Ellsworth Street) to the west, and 
D Street (present‐day Delaware Street) to the east. Although the area, expected to be the first official 
business district in San Mateo, consisted of a wheat field at that time, Polhemus listed 176 lots for sale. In 
1865, one year after the opening of the railroad, Polhemus had sold 40 of the 176 lots, establishing what 
would become the new commercial center of San Mateo.5 
 
Over the next several decades, residential development continued in San Mateo. One of the earliest 
residences in San Mateo belonged to the de Guigne family. In 1879, Mary Katherine Parrott, daughter of 
preeminent John and Abby Parrott, married Christian de Guigne, the agent of a French banking firm. The 
couple established their estate after purchasing a block of land from the Husing Brothers. The property 
extended roughly from today’s El Camino Real to San Mateo Drive, between today’s Third and Fourth 
avenues. In the 1880s, the de Guignes constructed their residence at approximately the site of the 
subject property.6 Other San Mateans during this time similarly purchased large parcels of land and 
established grand estates, including the adjacent estates of the Paysons, the Parrotts, and the Haynes. 
 
As early as 1890, efforts were underway to incorporate San Mateo, and on September 3, 1894, the San 
Mateo County Board of Supervisors voted in favor of incorporation. By this time, the city of San Mateo 
benefited from a bustling business district centered along B Street, a reliable source of water from the 
newly constructed Crystal Springs Dam, a thriving newspaper, and many civic institutions, such as a 
volunteer fire department, library, churches, and schools. The boundaries for the new town extended 
from Peninsula Avenue on the north, the bay to the east, Ninth Avenue on the south, and a line one 
thousand feet west of the County Road on the west.7 In the first two decades of the twentieth century, 
the lands surrounding San Mateo changed dramatically; salt‐harvesting operations dominated the bay 
lands, nurseries spread across the hillsides, and a country club was established for wealthy weekenders. 
Residential areas of the town expanded through new subdivisions such as San Mateo Heights, while the 
business section of the town developed more slowly.8  
 
Around the turn of the twentieth century, San Mateo had approximately 1,800 residents and was linked 
to San Francisco by an interurban electric railway. The new trolley service, coupled with an influx of San 
Francisco refugees following the 1906 earthquake and fires, resulted in the construction of numerous 
residences in San Mateo, with California bungalows among the most popular style. From 1900 to 1910, 
the population more than doubled to approximately 4,300 and by 1920, close to 6,000 people resided 
within the city limits. Through the 1930s, the city continued to expand as the large, late nineteenth 
                                                                
4 Postel, San Mateo, 40‐41. 
5 Postel, San Mateo, 40. 
6 Ibid., 46. 
7 Ibid., 101. 
8 Ibid., 112.

--- page 462 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
11 
 
century estates were subdivided and developed with smaller commercial and residential properties. The 
new residential development spread south from the downtown area, expanding the city’s boundary to 
Belmont and solidifying its suburban, middle class character. By 1930, San Mateo’s population had again 
doubled to 13,500 residents. A new suburban shopping district separate from the B Street corridor 
developed to the south at El Camino Real and Twenty‐Fifth Avenue.9  
 
Transportation improvements oriented toward the automobile followed. By 1920, El Camino Real (now 
State Route 82) had been transformed from a dusty, two‐lane dirt road into a modern paved 
thoroughfare lined with motels, gas stations, drive‐in restaurants, and suburban shopping complexes. 
Construction of the Bayshore Highway between South San Francisco and San Mateo was begun in 1924 to 
alleviate traffic along El Camino Real. By the 1930s, the highway linked San Francisco south through San 
Mateo County to Santa Clara Valley.10  
 
San Mateo survived the Great Depression relatively well as local government officials efficiently balanced 
the annual budget and continued to fund critical services, such as the fire, police, library, and park 
departments. While unemployment reached 20 percent in California, it hovered around three percent 
countywide at the height of the Depression. San Mateo also benefited from several large developments, 
including the construction of the Bay Meadows Racetrack in 1934 by William P. Kyne, a prominent 
equestrian enthusiast.11  
 
Following World War II, San Mateo County began to grow at a remarkable pace; its population had grown 
from 36,000 in 1920 to 200,000 people by the 1950s.12 The city of San Mateo experienced similar growth; 
just prior to World War II, the city’s population was approximately 20,000 residents, which doubled by 
1950 to approximately 42,000. This influx of residents led to new development, including the 
construction of numerous single‐family homes and garden apartments, led in part by prolific developers 
L.C. Smith and David Bohannon. Bohannon also specialized in developing suburban shopping complexes 
with large parking lots designed to accommodate the automobile. The most prominent of his 
developments was the Hillsdale complex, which opened in 1952 as a 42‐acre commercial center with 
three department stores and 75 shops located at El Camino Real and W. Hillsdale Boulevard (just over 
two miles south of the subject property). The complex took over a decade to complete and shifted much 
of the commercial activity away from the established B Street commercial district.13 
3.2 Downtown Development in San Mateo   
In the early 1860s, San Mateo’s railroad station was built within the new commercial district along the 
Southern Pacific Railroad tracks. Although it was the sole building on Polhemus’ wheat field for a period 
of time, additional commercial properties were erected along both sides of the tracks, on Main Street, 
and Railroad Avenue between 1865 and 1870. Located just one block to the west of the station, B Street 
                                                                
9 Postel, San Mateo, 125‐127, 137, 175; Hynding, From Frontier to Suburb, 239‐240, 250‐251, 255‐256. 
10 Frank M. Stanger, South from San Francisco: the Life Story of San Mateo County (San Mateo, California: San Mateo 
County Historical Association, 1963), 198‐200; Postel, San Mateo, 137; Hynding, From Frontier to Suburb, 256‐259, 
266‐267. Bayshore Highway is now part of U.S. Highway 101. 
11 “Fiesta Looks Back on History of Progress,” The Times, June 25, 1969.  
12 Hynding, From Frontier to Suburb, 239; Stanger, South From San Francisco, 161.  
13 Postel, San Mateo, 229‐235.

--- page 463 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
12 
 
developed as the new major thoroughfare for those arriving to the community, helping foster easier 
access to the emerging commercial district.14 
 
By the 1870s, the district contained two hotels – the Railroad House and Edward Walker’s Hotel at the 
corner of Third Avenue and B Street. There were two general stores, one operated by the Husing Brothers 
and the other by James R.S. Bickford. Other businesses by this time included two tin shops, a harness 
shop, a meat market, two livery stables, two bakeries, one lumber yard, a carpenter and upholster, a 
barber shop, two shoemakers, three blacksmiths, and two real estate offices.15 The business district 
changed little in the following two decades. It was still centered largely around B Street and included six 
stores, four saloons, two butchers, two hotels, two blacksmiths, two drug stores, two plumbing shops, 
two barber shops, two shoemarkers, a machinist, a livery stable, a tailor, a jeweler, a bakery, a harness 
shop, a doctor, a lumber yard, and a newspaper office.16 Into the early years of the twentieth century, 
residential development in San Mateo continued to significanctly outpace commercial development.   
 
 
Figure 11. 1906 Map of San Mateo. The arrow indicates the approximate location of the subject property. 
(San Mateo County Historical Association) 
                                                                
14 Ibid., 170. 
15 Postel, San Mateo, 77. 
16 Ibid., 102.

--- page 464 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
13 
 
It was not until the 1920s and the 1930s that commercial development in San Mateo began to increase 
significantly. With the growth in popularity and affordability of the automobile, the business district also 
began to shift back to its original location along the El Camino Real highway . However, the de Guigne 
family’s ownership of several large plots of land between A Street (now Ellsworth Avenue) and El Camino 
Real initially stunted development of the area.17 Subsequent commercial development in this area was 
due largely to the efforts of realtor D. A. Raybould. 
 
Raybould, born in Salt Lake City in 1888, moved to the San Francisco Bay Area in 1911 and briefly worked 
for the San Francisco Chronicle as well as the San Mateo Times. In 1917, he served in WWI as a first 
lieutenant. Upon his return from the war, Raybould worked in the real estate industry. Alongside M. J. 
Conway, Reybould worked out of an office at 155 B Street in San Mateo. In 1922, a third partner, 
Frederick M. Johnson, joined the firm.18 
 
Raybould envisioned a connection from the El Camino Real highway to San Mateo’s railroad station to the 
east. In order to accomplish this, he planned to turn the unpaved Third Avenue into an 80‐foot‐wide 
thoroughfare filled with shopping opportunities, a restaurant, a hotel, and a movie theater. Further, 
Raybould planned to extend San Mateo Drive through the de Guigne property, and extend Fourth Avenue 
to El Camino Real.19  
 
 
Figure 12. 1912 Map of San Mateo. The arrow indicates the approximate location of the subject property. 
(Earth Sciences and Map Library, UC Berkeley) 
                                                                
17 Ibid., 170. 
18 Postel, San Mateo, 170. 
19 Ibid.

--- page 465 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
14 
 
As a first step, Raybould arranged for the sale and subdivision of the de Guigne estate. By 1923, Raybould 
had organized for Christian de Guigne’s daughters, the Countess de Tristan and the Countess de 
Dampierre, to sell their estate and surrounding land through Raybould, Conway, and Johnson to the B. 
Getz Company of San Francisco for $80,000.20 At the time of sale, Raybould already had confirmed 
tenants for the theater and financing for the hotel. In June of 1924, he arranged for a 10‐foot strip 
donation on Third Avenue from Ellsworth Avenue to El Camino Real, providing the necessary space to 
create an 80‐foot‐wide street. This accommodated diagonal street parking, and created the widest 
business street on the peninsula at the time.21 
 
By 1925, Third Avenue was dotted with a handful of commercial properties. The first building to be 
constructed along this new business corridor was the Caldwell Building (149 Third Avenue). This would be 
the only commercial building in the original development of Third Avenue that was not sold by Raybould’s 
firm. The next store to be erected was Noah’s Ark, a grocery store, at Third Avenue and San Mateo Drive. 
The third project was a Standard Oil service station at the intersection of Third Avenue and El Camino 
Real (not extant).22 
 
 
Figure 13. 1920s image of E. Third Avenue in San Mateo. The subject property is to the right of the image. 
(San Mateo County Historical Association Archives) 
In order to accommodate the larger projects along Third Avenue, the de Guigne mansion was moved to 
San Mateo Drive. (It was demolished shortly thereafter.) This freed up land that would be used for the 
San Mateo Theater. The theater was completed in 1926 at a cost of $250,000, and was considerably 
improved upon in the following three years.23 Located to the west of the theater was the new site of the 
Benjamin Franklin Hotel (the subject property). Constructed in 1926, the hotel replaced the recently 
destroyed Peninsula Hotel as the San Mateo “country” hotel. Following the completion of the south side 
of Third Avenue, Raybould began developing the northern side of the street. The first building on the 
north side was the Medical Arts Building, located on the east end of Third Avenue. In 1931, the Levy 
brothers moved their department store into a new building located on the north side of Third Avenue. 
                                                                
20 Postel, San Mateo, 170. 
21 Ibid. 
22 Ibid., 172. 
23 Ibid.

--- page 466 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
15 
 
Designed in the Tudor Revival style, the building exhibited class and sophistication that mirrored the 
emerging refined character of Third Avenue.24 
 
In 1936, Raybould chose a new partner for his firm, Frank M. Bartlett, who previously was in the Army Air 
Corps between 1917 and 1928. Raybould, also an aviator, worked well with Barlett and the two were able 
to develop several commercial properties on Second Avenue to the north and Fourth Avenue to the south 
of the already established Third Avenue commercial corridor.25 These developments were the catalyst for 
the expansion of the new downtown business district of San Mateo. 
 
Though the city of San Mateo fared better than other American cities during the years of the Great 
Depression, the 1930s did have an impact on the success of business development in the city. Third 
Avenue, with its many new buildings, appeared to be healthy. However, businesses began to flounder, 
leading to several companies, including a number of long‐standing estabishments, going out of business. 
In the following years, vacant storefronts would begin to comprise much of the new business district.26 
 
Following the Great Depression, the business district in San Mateo slowly regained businesses. In later 
years, the rural nature of the surrounding community of San Mateo quickly gave way to residential 
subdivisions, gaining considerable prominence following World War II.27 Parcels along Third Avenue were 
further subdivided and filled with new commercial properties. By the 1950s and 1960s, the community of 
San Mateo emerged as a rapidly developing post‐war suburb, with its commercial district extending from 
approximately El Camino Real on the west to S. Railroad Avenue on the east, and from E. Fifth Avenue on 
the south to approximately Baldwin Avenue on the north. Together with the 1950s Hillsdale Shopping 
Center, as well as several smaller shopping centers, the city experienced an annual $200 million in retail 
sales during this era.28 
3.3 Benjamin Franklin Hotel 
Prior to the construction of the Benjamin Franklin Hotel on Third Avenue, the site was home to the de 
Guigne residence. Named “Minne‐haha,” the estate occupied the block between today’s El Camino Real 
and San Mateo Drive, and Third and Fourth avenues.29 In the 1920s, the estate was purchased by B. Getz, 
Inc., a San Francisco‐based real estate company. The purchased property extended from Third Avenue to 
Fourth Avenue, as well as from El Camino Real to a “180 foot westerly from Ellsworth Avenue,” and 
contained 5,675 acres of land.30 
 
Arthur Chester Franklin (A.C. Franklin), born in 1880 and working as a merchant in the real estate industry 
by the 1920s, found the rural nature of San Mateo to be an excellent location for a new luxury hotel in 
San Mateo.31 Though the community still reflected country charm and quaintness, transportation 
developments by the early 1920s allowed Franklin to embark on his new luxury hotel project. There were 
                                                                
24 Ibid. 
25 Postel, San Mateo, 172‐173. 
26 Ibid., 201. 
27 Ibid., 232‐239. 
28 Ibid., 255. 
29 Michael Svanevik, and Shirley Burgett, “Benjamin Franklin Hotel Anchored San Mateo,” The Daily News, July 16, 
2011. 
30 “Benjamin Franklin Hotel has Historic Background,” The Post, June 26, 1963.  
31 United States Federal Census, 1920, accessed December 1, 2017, http://www.ancestry.com.

--- page 467 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
16 
 
approximately 68 trains daily connecting San Mateo to San Francisco, in addition to electric trolley 
service. Mills Fields, the local airport, was in close proximity to the site, and the drive from San Mateo to 
San Francisco via automobile was just over thirty minutes.32 
 
In the mid‐1920s, Franklin formed a partnership with Benjamin Getz called the Vision Realty Company 
and began constructing the Benjamin Franklin Hotel from a bond issue underwritten by Schwabacher and 
Company of San Francisco.33 The original owners intended the hotel to be a peninsula “resort,” marketing 
it as a sunny retreat from the San Francisco fog to the north, though the hotel would still be located in the 
commercial core of San Mateo.34 
 
The owners of the hotel commissioned noted San Francisco Bay Area architect W.H. Weeks to design the 
property. By the time of the construction of the hotel, Weeks had made a name for himself by designing 
several well‐received public schools, libraries, banks, and single‐family residences throughout the San 
Francisco Bay Area. The hotel was to be eight stories tall and designed in the Spanish Colonial Revival 
style, capped with a luxurious penthouse. Construction broke ground in July of 1926 with nearly half the 
town watching with excitement.35 The builder for the project was Anton Johnson, a well‐known San 
Mateo contractor at the time, who utilized a unique construction technique called the “Pacific Wall.” A 
1927 Oakland Tribune article describing the “Pacific Wall” technique wrote:36 
 
“Pacific Wall” is composed of two parts of rice hulls and one part of aerated stucco, with 
sufficient water added to permit pouring into forms. Trolel collapsible steel forms are used, being 
installed straight and plumb to insure practically straight walls. The walls are poured to any 
desired thickness, from two inches up, door bucks and nailing blocks are installed and poured in 
place thereby insuring rigid construction throughout, and when finished they produce a 
practically smooth surface which can be plastered in the regular way. An unusual feature that 
aids in applying plaster and gives a permanent smooth plaster surface is the adhesive qualities of 
the material. […] “Pacific Wall” has been used extensively in hotels and hospitals in various 
California cities, including the Benjamin Franklin hotel, an eight‐story, 159‐room hotel, at San 
Mateo.  
 
The hotel was completed at a cost of $250,000, and was soft opened on June 23, 1927 during a formal 
dinner banquet.37 Even before the hotel was completed, promoters were boasting the property as the 
jewel of San Mateo, featuring 150 luxurious accommodations, each with its own bathroom.38 
Following widespread praise, the Benjamin Franklin Hotel officially opened to the public on July 2, 1927. 
In a 2011 Daily News article, the hotel and its reception is described:39 
 
Local residents were unprepared for the elegance. A Maitre d’hotel made all the reservations, 
and the July 2 opening was the “smartest affair ever held in San Mateo.” Elegantly dressed guests 
                                                                
32 Svanevik and Burgett, “Benjamin Franklin Hotel Anchored San Mateo;” Research on Benjamin Getz has yielded 
little information. 
33 “Benjamin Franklin Hotel has Historic Background.” 
34 Ibid. 
35 Svanevik and Burgett, “Benjamin Franklin Hotel Anchored San Mateo.” 
36 “Rice Hulls and Stucco Used to Build Walls,” Oakland Tribune, November 27, 1927. 
37 Paul D. Buchanan, “The Benjamin Franklin: San Mateo’s Grand Hotel,” San Mateo Daily Journal, March 10, 2001. 
38 Ibid. 
39 Svanevik and Burgett, “Benjamin Franklin Hotel Anchored San Mateo.”

--- page 468 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
17 
 
were seated in the loft lounge in front of a crackling fireplace, where they listened to music 
provided by Victor Weinberg and his orchestra. There was seating for 250 in the central dining 
room and a banquet hall on the mezzanine. Some walked the hallways, closely examining the 
guest rooms. 
 
Many of the evening’s guests wandered meandering paths through the exquisite gardens marked 
by spacious lawns punctuated with 600‐year‐old oaks, marveling that the wonderful gardens that 
had once characterized the de Guigne estate were carefully preserved. Colorful Chinese paper 
lanterns, strung between the trees, provided illumination. There were swings, benches, and for 
the romantically inclined, intimate nooks. And, as if this weren’t enough, one of the major 
attractions was the hotel’s outdoor swimming plunge. The entire ambiance offered an air of 
quietude, “inviting complete relaxation and forgetfulness of the world outside.” 
 
The top floor of the hotel boasted a two‐bedroom, two‐bath penthouse, the only such unit south of the 
city of San Francisco. The penthouse included a kitchen and a meeting room, and was noted for hosting 
presidential candidate Christian Herter’s campaign headquarters in 1956.40 
 
 
Figure 14. 1920s image of the recently completed Benjamin Franklin Hotel, looking east on the largely 
undeveloped corridor of E. Third Avenue. (San Mateo County Historical Association) 
From its opening, promoters touted the Benjamin Franklin Hotel as a “Rendezvous for Smart People.”41 
The hotel drew countless visiting socialites, automobile clubs on excursion, and weddings, many of which 
were highlighted in the local press. The hotel also hosted a number of local and national celebrities 
including Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy, Ginger Rogers, California governor Friend W. Richardson, and 
singer Bing Crosby.42 
 
                                                                
40 Svanevik and Burgett, “Benjamin Franklin Hotel Anchored San Mateo.” 
41 Ibid. 
42 “Benjamin Franklin Hotel has Historic Background.”; Sara Gaiser, “Old Ben Had Rich History,” The Daily News, 
August 6, 2003.

--- page 469 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
18 
 
In the first few years of operation, newspapers touted the Benjamin Franklin Hotel as the “center of the 
city’s civic life.”43 Within a few years, however, the hotel suffered financial issues stemming from the 
Great Depression. The allure of the hotel declined further when the former grounds surrounding the 
property were subdivided and developed with other buildings.44 As most of the city’s rural qualities 
disappeared following the emergence of San Mateo as a post‐WWII suburb, the hotel struggled to 
maintain its original reputation as an elegant country hotel.   
 
In the early 1950s, hoteliers Max and Erwin Best purchased the property and began operation of the 
hotel. They had learned their trade from their father who was also in the hotel management field, with 
establishments in Los Angeles and Bakersfield, as well as the East Coast and other locales. During their 
ownership, the Best brothers embarked on several renovations and refurbishments including redoing the 
Willow Room, and Fireside Room, and the Club Seville.45 
 
The hotel was host to several dinner dances in the post‐WWII years and even hosted an event to 
celebrate the opening of the San Mateo Bridge in the 1960s.46 It also hosted overflow guests from the 
local Peninsula Golf and Country Club, and was a meeting space for several San Mateo civic organizations 
including the Chamber of Commerce, the Rotary Club, and the Lions Club until the 1960s.47 In 1960, 
United Airlines began using the hotel for its layover flight crews, occupying approximately eighty percent 
of the hotel’s ninety‐nine rooms.48 
 
In 1985, Westin Hotels, a subsidiary of UAL Inc. (owner of United Airlines and Hertz Rent‐a‐Car), 
purchased the property from the Best family.49 Four years later, in 1989, the Empire Group purchased the 
property from Westin Hotels and began exclusively hosting United Airlines layover crews rather than 
accommodating the general public.50 However, in 2003, United Airlines abruptly filed for bankruptcy and 
pulled out of its lease with Empire Group, at which time the hotel became vacant.51 AF Evans Co. 
purchased the property in 2005 with plans of converting the hotel into condominiums. However, the plan 
was aborted, at which point AF Evans hired Collier International Hotels to sell the property.52 In 2007, 
CitiSuites purchased the property from AF Evans Co. CitiSuites planned to reopen the Benjamin Franklin 
Hotel as a plush but competitively priced hotel featuring a number of corporate suites to accommodate 
business travelers.53 When the real estate market crashed in 2008, the Lembi Group sold the property to 
UBS Financial Services. In 2011, the property was purchased by venture capitalist Tim Draper who 
currently owns and operates Draper University out of the building.54 
 
                                                                
43 “San Mateo’s Biggest Hotel,” San Mateo Times, October 7, 1936. 
44 Gaiser, “Old Ben Had Rich History.” 
45 “Ben Franklin Hotel’s Erwin and Max Best,” The Times, May 3, 1974. 
46 Postel, San Mateo, 252‐253. 
47 Tara Ramroop, “San Mateo’s Big Ben Stands Empty as City Seeks Owner,” San Mateo County Times, March 16, 
2005; Barry Kaye, “Sale of Benjamin Franklin Hotel to Empire Group Reportedly ‘Very Close,’” The Times, February 
21, 1989. 
48 Joshua Melvin, “New Owner for Hotel,” San Mateo County Times, April 16, 2011. 
49 Kaye, “Sale of Benjamin Franklin Hotel.” 
50 Melvin, “New Owner for Hotel.” 
51 Aaron Kinney, “City Sees Boost in Revival of Hotel,” San Mateo County Times, February 15, 2007. 
52 Dana Yates, “Historic Benjamin Franklin to Remain Hotel,” Daily Journal, June 3‐4, 2006. 
53 Kinney, “City Sees Boost in Revival of Hotel.” 
54 “An Empty Space for Ideas,” San Mateo County Times, June 25, 2011.

--- page 470 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
19 
 
 
Figure 15. 1986 image of the Benjamin Franklin Hotel rising above Third Avenue.  
(The Times, September 13, 1986) 
3.4 W.H. Weeks, Architect  
William Henry Weeks, born on January 18, 1864 in Charlottetown, Canada, was an early twentieth‐
century architect known for his school, library, residential, and bank designs. While other well‐known 
architects of the time often designed high‐styled grand estates, commercial properties, and civic 
institutions, Weeks was considered an architect of the everyday man.55 His clients typically consisted of 
religious institutions, public schools, and libraries in rural towns and villages. Though he designed dozens 
of Carnegie libraries throughout Northern California, for which he gained prominence, Weeks designed 
even more high schools, many of which are still extant today. 
 
Weeks studied architectural design at the Brinker Institute in Denver before working in his father’s 
construction firm in Wichita, Kansas as a designer and builder.56 In 1894, Weeks relocated to Watsonville, 
California, where he would begin his career as an independent architect.57 After settling in Watsonville, 
Weeks open his first office in the same city, while also working on the town’s first high school.58 His first 
property designed in Watsonville was a home for Judge Julius Lee at 128 E. Beach Street (1894). Designed 
in the Queen Anne style, the house was described by the local newspaper, The Pajaronian, as “reaching 
up into the air” and being “up‐to‐date in every way.”59 
 
Weeks quickly experienced success in Watsonville, and in an effort to expand his operations, he opened a 
second branch office in the nearby city of Salinas in 1897.60 It was during this time that Weeks began to 
be chosen for several commercial projects throughout the central and northern coasts of California. 
Through the early 1900s, Weeks designed several of his earliest well‐known commercial buildings such as 
                                                                
55 B. J. S. Cahill, A.I.A., “The Work of Mr. William H. Weeks, Architect,” The Architect and Engineer of California Vol. 
XLI, No. 2, May 1915, 39. 
56 Betty Lewis, W.H. Weeks: Architect, (Fresno: Panorama West Books, 1985), 1. 
57 According to the 1900 United States Census, the Weeks family resided on Jefferson Street in Watsonville, CA. 
58 Betty Lewis, “W.H. Weeks: California School Architect,” California History Volume LXIV, No. 3, Summer 1985, 227. 
59 Lewis, W.H. Weeks: Architect, 5‐6. 
60 Ibid., 7.

--- page 471 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
20 
 
the Yolo County Savings Bank (Woodland, 1903), the Monterey Hotel (1904), the Weeks Block 
(Watsonville, 1905), and the Paso Robles Municipal Bath House (Paso Robles, 1905).61 
 
In 1905, with business burgeoning, Weeks opened a third branch office located at 251 Kearney Street in 
San Francisco, California.62 By the 1910s, Weeks began to gain considerable prominence as a local 
architect and was chosen to design several Carnegie libraries throughout Northern and Central 
California.63 Weeks catered to each respective community by utilizing diverse architectural styles 
depending on the local context. Some of the architectural styles employed by Weeks in his designs 
included Romanesque, Craftsman, and Mission/Spanish Colonial Revival. However, his most often used 
style consisted of a modest Classical Revival design, as seen in his Gilroy (1910), Richmond (1910), and 
Roseville (1912) Carnegie libraries.64 
 
 
Figure 16. W.H. Weeks designed both the Monterey Hotel (left, 1904) and the Goldstine Block Building 
(1906) on Alvarado Street in downtown Monterey. (Architectural Resources Group) 
In the 1910s and 1920s, Weeks began specializing in the design of public schools, with his work ethic and 
portfolio praised by several architectural critics. In a May 1915 Architect and Engineer article, Weeks is 
applauded for having a remarkable level of work output with “no architect in California ha[ving] planned 
anywhere near as many buildings throughout the state as Mr. W. H. Weeks of San Francisco.”65 Upon 
                                                                
61 Ibid., 14. 
62 Ibid., 25. 
63 A Carnegie library is a library that was constructed through funds donated by businessman and philanthropist 
Andrew Carnegie. Between 1883 and 1929, more than 2,500 Carnegie libraries were constructed throughout the 
world, with 1,689 constructed in the United States.  
64 Pat and Bernie Skehan, “Carnegie Libraries of California,” accessed December 1, 2017, http://www.carnegie‐
libraries.org/california/architect/weeks.html. 
65 Cahill, A.I.A., “The Work of Mr. William H. Weeks, Architect,” 49.

--- page 472 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
21 
 
completion of his high school in Piedmont, the property was noted as “probably one of the most 
complete school buildings in the state of California as regards to equipment and appointments.”66 Weeks 
would continue to design over 100 public schools throughout the San Francisco Bay Area during the 
course of his career. 
 
In 1924, Weeks opened a fourth office in Oakland, California and two years later, in 1926, Weeks opened 
his final office in San Jose, California. By the opening of his office in San Jose, his firm was one of the 
largest and oldest architectural firms in the state of California.67 His staff included several architects in 
addition to a number of engineers and other design and construction specialists. Additionally, during the 
1920s, Weeks designed a number of hotels throughout the Bay Area. Two notable hotels designed by 
Weeks include the Hotel Palomar (Santa Cruz, 1929) and the Hotel De Anza (San Jose, 1931), that latter of 
which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.68 Both of these hotels are markedly similar in 
massing and design to the Benjamin Franklin Hotel.  
 
Figure 17. Hotel Palomar, Santa Cruz 
(localwiki.org) 
Figure 18. Hotel De Anza, San Jose (City of San 
Jose) 
Weeks continued to design several properties through the 1930s. In the spring of 1936, William Henry 
Weeks died at the age of 72.69 
 
Select Weeks Commissions: 
 
Julius Lee House – Watsonville, California (1894) 
 
Spreckels Sugar Company Beet Factory – Spreckels, California (1898, non‐extant) 
 
Yolo County Savings Bank – Woodland, California (1903) 
 
Monterey Hotel – Monterey, California (1904) 
 
Goldstine Block Building – Monterey, California (1906) 
                                                                
66 “An Architectural Achievement in California: Some Recent Schools of Wm. H. Weeks, Architect,” The School Board 
Journal, November 1923, 1. 
67 Lewis, W.H. Weeks, 35. 
68 Ibid., 83‐86. 
69 Lewis, W.H. Weeks, 41.

--- page 473 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
22 
 
 
Nevada City Carnegie Library – Nevada City, California (1907) 
 
Paso Robles Carnegie Library – Paso Robles, California (1908) 
 
First Presbyterian Church – Monterey, California (1910) 
 
Gilroy Carnegie Library – Gilroy, California (1910) 
 
A.R. Underwood Building – Monterey, California (1912) 
 
Yolo County Jail – Woodland, California (1915) 
 
Winters City Hall – Winters, California (1916) 
 
Piedmont High School – Piedmont, California (1921) 
 
Benjamin Franklin Hotel – San Mateo, California (1927) 
 
Medico‐Dental Building – San Jose, California (1927) 
 
Wheeler Hospital – Gilroy, California (1928) 
 
Hotel Palomar – Santa Cruz (1929)  
 
Hotel De Anza – San Jose (1931) 
 
Monterey County Bank – Monterey, California (1931) 
 
Campbell High School – Campbell, California (1936‐1938)70 
3.5 Spanish Colonial Revival Architecture 
The property at 34‐50 E. Third Avenue was completed in the Spanish Colonial Revival style. The following 
context for Spanish Colonial Revival architecture is quoted from the 1989 City of San Mateo Historic 
Building Survey:71 
 
The Spanish Colonial Revival style represents another chapter in California’s search for a regional 
architecture appropriate to its climate, topography, and traditions. Many believed that the 
Mission Revival style, derived as it was from ecclesiastical architecture, was inappropriate to 
secular buildings. Yet Spanish sources still seemed better than the architecture of the American 
East Coast. In 1906 Herbert Croly suggested that California architects look directly at 
Mediterranean houses, which he characterized as the most “valuable and imitable local domestic 
style.” He believed that Mediterranean houses represented California’s true heritage because the 
Franciscan friars would have built such houses if they had had the knowledge, skills, tools, and 
materials. Since no such houses were ever constructed in California, Croly actually proposed a 
form of architectural mythmaking – the recreation of a California past that never really was.  
 
The Spanish Colonial Revival, also known as the Mediterranean or Spanish Eclectic, was 
popularized by the Panama‐California Exposition (which celebrated the opening of the Panama 
Canal) held in San Diego in 1915. Bertram Grosvenor Goodhue, who designed the exposition 
buildings, drew inspiration from the Spanish Colonial architecture found throughout Latin 
America. More and more architects began to look directly at Spanish architecture as well as the 
architecture of the entire Mediterranean area. The result was a style that is an eclectic mix of 
Spanish, Spanish Colonial, Northern Italian, and North African Islamic elements. 
 
                                                                
70 Although Weeks died prior to the completion of the Campbell High School campus in 1938, his designs were 
utilized throughout the entire campus project. 
71 San Mateo County Historical Association, City of San Mateo Historic Building Survey Final Report, 59‐61.

--- page 474 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
23 
 
The style was popular mainly in states with a Spanish heritage, but there are examples sprinkled 
throughout the United States. By the 1920s, according to art historians Gebhard, Witner, and 
Sandweiss, it was the style in coastal California. It not only was a link with California’s Spanish 
past, but it also may have seemed suitable to a climate and landscape similar to that of the 
Mediterranean. Hollywood stars constructed Spanish Colonial mansions, and the style appear in 
movie sets. It was used for a considerable range of building types, from railroad stations, public 
buildings, and theaters, to mansions and cottages. 
 
Grand houses combined plain stucco walls with convoluted Churrigueresque ornamentation 
around doorways, wrought‐iron details, decorative tiles, spiral columns, and arches. But 
developers also used the style extensively for smaller houses. […] Spanish Colonial Revival 
buildings tend to be irregular in their massing, often consisting of a cluster of blocks that look 
almost as if they had been constructed over a long period of time against a Mediterranean 
hillside overlooking the sea.  
 
The Spanish Colonial Revival style was particularly popular for buildings of all types in San Mateo 
during its boom years of the ‘twenties and ‘thirties. 
 
 
 
Spanish Colonial Revival Character‐Defining Features 
 
Low pitched or flat roofs without much eave overhang 
 
Red tile roofs and tiled parapets 
 
Multi‐level roofs 
 
Usually faced with stucco, occasionally brick 
 
Asymmetrical massing 
 
Arches, pointed, round, or with a slight peak (cf. Islamic arches), triple arched, or 
parabolic 
 
Ornamental details derived from Spanish, Byzantine, Gothic, Italian, and Spanish sources 
 
Spiral columns 
 
Multi‐pane windows 
 
Window grilles in iron or wood 
 
Elaborate chimney tops 
 
Round or square towers 
 
Decorative tiles 
 
Decorative iron work 
 
Ornamentation around doorways 
4. EVALUATIVE FRAMEWORK 
4.1 California Register of Historical Resources 
The California Register of Historical Resources (California Register) is the authoritative guide to the State’s 
significant historical and archeological resources. It serves to identify, evaluate, register, and protect 
California’s historical resources. The California Register program encourages public recognition and 
protection of resources of architectural, historical, archeological and cultural significance, identifies 
historical resources for state and local planning purposes, determines eligibility for historic preservation

--- page 475 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
24 
 
grant funding and affords certain protections under the California Environmental Quality Act. All 
resources listed on or formally determined eligible for the National Register of Historic Places (National 
Register) are automatically listed on the California Register. In addition, properties designated under 
municipal or county ordinances are eligible for listing in the California Register. 
 
Significance Criteria 
The California Register criteria are modeled on the National Register criteria discussed above. An 
historical resource must be significant at the local, state, or national level under one or more of the 
following criteria: 
 
1. It is associated with events or patterns of events that have made a significant contribution to the 
broad patterns of local or regional history, or the cultural heritage of California or the United 
States. 
 
2. It is associated with the lives of persons important to local, California, or national history. 
 
3. It embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, region, or method of construction, or 
represents the work of a master, or possesses high artistic values. 
 
4. It has yielded, or has the potential to yield, information important to the prehistory or history of 
the local area, state or the nation.  
 
Like the National Register, evaluation for eligibility to the California Register requires an establishment of 
historic significance before integrity is considered. California’s integrity threshold is slightly lower than the 
federal level. As a result, some resources that are historically significant but do not meet National 
Register integrity standards may be eligible for listing on the California Register.72  
 
Integrity 
Second, for a property to qualify under the National Register’s Criteria for Evaluation, it must also retain 
“historic integrity of those features necessary to convey its significance.”73 While a property’s significance 
relates to its role within a specific historic context, its integrity refers to “a property’s physical features 
and how they relate to its significance.”74 Since integrity is based on a property’s significance within a 
specific historic context, an evaluation of a property’s integrity can only occur after historic significance 
has been established. To determine if a property retains the physical characteristics corresponding to its 
historic context, the National Register has identified seven aspects of integrity: 
 
Location is the place where the historic property was constructed or the place where the historic 
event occurred. 
                                                                
72 California Office of Historic Preservation, California Register and National Register: A Comparison (for the purposes 
of determining eligibility for the California Register), Technical Assistance Series #6 (Sacramento: California 
Department of Parks and Recreation, n.d.), accessed December 4, 2017, 
http://ohp.parks.ca.gov/pages/1069/files/technical%20assistance%20bulletin%206%202011%20update.pdf.   
73 National Park Service, How to Apply the National Register Criteria for Evaluation, accessed December 4, 2017, 
http://www.nps.gov/nr/publications/bulletins/nrb15/nrb15_8.htm. 
74 Ibid.

--- page 476 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
25 
 
Setting is the physical environment of a historic property. 
 
Design is the combination of elements that create the form, plan, space, structure, and style of a 
property. 
 
Materials are the physical elements that were combined or deposited during a particular period 
of time and in a particular pattern or configuration to form a historic property. 
 
Workmanship is the physical evidence of the crafts of a particular culture or people during any 
given period in history or prehistory. 
 
Feeling is a property’s expression of the aesthetic or historic sense of a particular period of time. 
 
Association is the direct link between an important historic event or person and a historic 
property. 
4.2 CEQA and Historical Resources 
When a proposed project may cause a substantial adverse change in the significance of an historical 
resource, the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requires a city or county to carefully consider 
the possible impacts before proceeding (Public Resources Code Section 21084.1). CEQA equates a 
substantial adverse change in the significance of a historical resource with a significant effect on the 
environment (Section 21084.1). The Act explicitly prohibits the use of a categorical exemption within the 
CEQA Guidelines for projects which may cause such a change (Section 21084).  
 
CEQA Guidelines section 15064.5(b) defines a “substantial adverse change” in the significance of a 
historical resource as “physical demolition, destruction, relocation, or alteration of the resource or its 
immediate surroundings such that the significance of an historical resource would be materially 
impaired.” Further, that the significance of an historical resource is “materially impaired” when a project: 
 
 
“demolishes or materially alters in an adverse manner those physical characteristics of an 
historical resource that convey its historical significance and that justify its inclusion in, or 
eligibility for inclusion in the California Register of Historical Resources; or 
 
 
“demolishes or materially alters in an adverse manner those physical characteristics that account 
for its inclusion in a local register of historical resources... or its identification in an historical 
resources survey..., unless the public agency reviewing the effects of the project establishes by a 
preponderance of evidence that the resource is not historically or culturally significant; or 
 
 
“demolishes or materially alters in an adverse manner those physical characteristics of a historical 
resource that convey its historical significance and that justify its eligibility for inclusion in the 
California Register of Historical Resources as determined by a lead agency for purposes of CEQA.” 
(Guidelines Section 15064.5(b)) 
 
For the purposes of CEQA (Guidelines Section 15064.5), the term “historical resources” shall include the 
following:

--- page 477 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
26 
 
1. A resource listed in, or determined to be eligible by the State Historical Resources Commission, 
for listing in, the California Register of Historical Resources (Pub. Res. Code Section 5024.1, Title 
14 CCR, Section 4850 et.seq.). 
 
2. A resource included in a local register of historical resources, as defined in Section 5020.1(k) of 
the Public Resources Code or identified as significant in an historical resource survey meeting the 
requirements of Section 5024.1(g) of the Public Resources Code, shall be presumed to be 
historically or culturally significant. Public agencies must treat any such resource as significant 
unless the preponderance of evidence demonstrates that it is not historically or culturally 
significant. 
 
3. Any object, building, structure, site, area, place, record, or manuscript which a lead agency 
determines to be historically significant or significant in the architectural, engineering, scientific, 
economic, agricultural, educational, social, political, military, or cultural annals of California, may 
be considered to be an historical resource, provided the lead agency’s determination is 
supported by substantial evidence in light of the whole record. Generally, a resource shall be 
considered by the lead agency to be “historically significant” if the resource meets the criteria for 
listing in the California Register of Historical Resources (Public Resources Code Section 5024.1, 
Title 14 CCR, Section 4852) as follows: 
 
A. Is associated with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns 
of California’s history and cultural heritage; 
B. Is associated with the lives of persons important in our past; 
C. Embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, region, or method of 
construction, or represents the work of an important creative individual, or possesses 
high artistic values; or 
D. Has yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in prehistory or history. 
(Guidelines Section 15064.5) 
 
5. EVALUATION 
5.1 California Register of Historical Resources 
Under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), resources that meet the criteria of the California 
Register of Historical Resources are considered historical resources. Determinations of historical 
significance require that several factors are considered including: the property's history (both 
construction and use); the history and context of the surrounding community; an association with 
important persons or uses; the number of resources associated with the property; the potential for the  
resources to be the work of a master architect, builder, craftsman, landscape gardener, or artist; the 
historical, architectural or landscape influences that have shaped the property’s design and its pattern of 
use; and lastly alterations that have taken place and how these changes may have affected the property’s 
historical integrity.  
  
These issues must be explored thoroughly before a final determination of significance can be established. 
To be eligible for the California Register historic resources must possess both historic significance and 
retain historic integrity. The following are the four significance criteria of the California Register. Upon

--- page 478 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
27 
 
review of the criteria, if historic significance is identified, then an integrity analysis is conducted. To be 
eligible for the California Register, an historical resource must be significant at the local, state, or  
national level under at least one of the following criteria:   
 
California Register Criterion 1 [Association with Significant Events] 
To be considered eligible under Criterion 1, a property must be associated with one or more events 
important in a defined historic context. This criterion recognizes properties associated with single events, 
a pattern of events, repeated activities, or historic trends. The event or trends, however, must clearly be 
important within the associated context. Further, mere association of the property with historic events or 
trends is not enough, in and of itself, to qualify under this criterion: the specific association must be 
considered important as well.75 
 
The subject property appears to be eligible under Criterion 1 for its central role in the early‐twentieth‐
century development of downtown San Mateo. San Mateo’s downtown commercial/business district 
developed in approximately three phases. Briefly centered on County Road, the district moved to the San 
Mateo Creek area in the 1870s. In the early 1920s, D. A. Raybould proposed a new business district closer 
to the El Camino Real highway via Third Avenue. In 1926, A.C. Franklin and Benjamin Getz constructed the 
subject property, which was one of the original buildings in the new commercial district. The owners 
marketed the hotel as a “country” retreat from foggy San Francisco and hosted a number of wealthy 
residents and visitors, politicians, actors and actresses, singers, and other well‐known individuals. 
Together with the Levy Bros. Department Store across the street and the San Mateo Theater next door, 
the three flagship buildings on Third Avenue attracted new patrons and clientele that were necessary to 
establish and expand a new business district, spurring significant new and unprecedented commercial 
development in San Mateo on E. Third Avenue and adjacent streets, development that would continue 
during subsequent decades. The property, therefore, conveys the broad trend of downtown commercial 
development during the 1920s and 1930s. As such, the property appears to be eligible under this 
criterion. 
 
California Register Criterion 2 [Association with Significant Persons] 
This criterion “applies to properties associated with individuals whose specific contributions to history can 
be identified and documented.” It identifies properties associated with individuals “whose activities are 
demonstrably important within a local, State, or national historic context,” and is typically limited to those 
properties that have the ability to illustrate a person's important achievements.76  
 
The subject property is not associated with any individual important to local, California, or national 
history, and thus does not appear to be eligible under Criterion 2. Although A.C. Franklin and Benjamin 
Getz established and operated a successful hospitality business in San Mateo, they are not known to have 
made a broader contribution to the hospitality industry in the local, state, or national contexts. 
Subsequent owners Max and Erwin Best similarly ran a successful hotel business, but are not known to 
have made a significant impact on the hospitality industry or other local, state, or national history.  
 
                                                                
75 National Park Service, How to Apply the National Register Criteria for Evaluation. 
76 Ibid.

--- page 479 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
28 
 
California Register Criterion 3 [Architectural Significance] 
This criterion applies to properties that “embody the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or 
method of construction, or that represent the work of a master, or that possess high artistic values, or 
that represent a significant and distinguishable entity whose components may lack individual distinction.”  
"Distinctive characteristics" are the physical and design features that commonly recur in individual types, 
periods, or methods of construction. To be eligible, a property must clearly contain enough of those 
characteristics to be considered a true representative of a particular style.  A master “is a figure of 
generally recognized greatness in a field, a known craftsman of consummate skill, or an anonymous 
craftsman whose work is distinguishable from others by its characteristic style and quality…. A property is 
not eligible as the work of a master, however, simply because it was designed by a prominent 
architect.”77  
 
The subject property appears to be eligible under Criterion 3 both as a work of master architect W.H. 
Weeks and as a representative example of the Spanish Colonial Revival style.  
Architect W.H. Weeks, a prominent San Francisco Bay Area architect, was commissioned to design the 
subject property in 1926. Though Weeks gained prominence for his early residential, bank, and school 
designs, Weeks also specialized in hotel design. Constructed in 1926, shortly after Weeks was 
commissioned to design several prominent Carnegie libraries throughout Northern California, the subject 
building represents the peak of Weeks’ career.  
 
Weeks designed the subject property in the Spanish Colonial Revival style. While Spanish Colonial Revival 
was often used for residential design, especially in California, it was less often implemented in hotel 
buildings. The subject property is, therefore, a distinctive representation of the Spanish Colonial Revival 
style through its extensively elaborate Churrigueresque ornamentation (including spandrel panels, 
corbels, medallions, and an elaborate parapet ornament), flat roof with parapet, stucco exterior cladding, 
arched window openings, and elaborate clay‐tile chimney cap.   
 
California Register Criterion 4 [Potential to Yield Information] 
Criterion 4 is generally applied to archaeological resources, and evaluation of the subject property for 
eligibility under this criterion was beyond the scope of this report. 
5.2 Integrity Analysis 
In order for a property to qualify for listing on the California Register of Historical Resources, it must 
possess both significance under one or more of the California Register criteria and sufficient integrity to 
convey that significance. There are seven aspects of historic integrity: location, design, setting, materials, 
workmanship, feeling, and association.  
 
An integrity analysis of the subject property is presented below. In general, the property at 34‐50 E. Third 
Avenue retains a high level of integrity, with modifications limited to the ground floor storefronts, rooftop 
penthouse, and rear portions of the property. 
 
 
                                                                
77 National Park Service, How to Apply the National Register Criteria for Evaluation.

--- page 480 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
29 
 
Location and Setting 
The subject property has not been moved from its original location. As such, it retains integrity of 
location. Little change has occurred in the property’s immediate setting since its construction in 1926. It 
continues to be surrounded by low‐scale, one‐ to two‐story commercial buildings dating from the 1920s 
and 1930s. While new construction has occurred at the intersection of E. Third Avenue and El Camino 
Real, the property’s setting has essentially remained unchanged since its original date of construction. In 
addition, the boundaries of the surrounding San Mateo Downtown Historic District have not changed 
since the District was first identified in 1989. Therefore, the building retains integrity of setting. 
 
Design, Materials and Workmanship  
Alterations to the building appear to be limited to storefronts on the ground level, replacement of doors 
and windows at the cafeteria, and alterations to the rooftop penthouse. All three entries on the building’s 
north façade have been replaced with fully glazed doors and sidelights. The west storefront was restored 
in 2013 to generally match the windows and transom of the east storefront, which appears to be original. 
Several doors and windows were replaced as part of the 1954 remodel of the banquet room (cafeteria), 
though the footprint of this portion of the building does not appear to have been changed. Finally, one or 
more portions of the penthouse that are not visible from the public right‐of‐way may be an addiiton, 
though this is not clarified in the permit record. None of these alterations should be considered historic in 
their own right.     
 
The alterations described above are minimal and do not affect the building’s ability to convey its historic 
and architectural significance. In particular, the building’s Churrigueresque ornamentation, elaborate 
window lintels and surrounds, wood sash double‐hung divided‐light windows, and overall form remain 
intact. No major exterior renovations or additions have been made to the building, which remains an 
excellent example of Spanish Colonial Revival architecture. As such, the property retains integrity of 
design, materials and workmanship.  
 
Feeling and Association 
Through its intact architectural design features, original materials, and setting within the business 
corridor of San Mateo, the property continues to express the Spanish Colonial Revival aesthetic and 
maintains its association with the early development of downtown San Mateo. The limited alterations 
made to the building – including modifications to the ground floor storefronts, rooftop penthouse, and 
rear portions of the property – do not compromise the property’s ability to convey its architectural and 
historic significance. As such, the property retains integrity of feeling and association.  
 
6. CONCLUSION 
The subject property at 34‐50 E. Third Avenue appears to be eligible for listing in the California Register 
for its association with the commercial development of downtown San Mateo, as well as for being a 
distinctive and intact example of Spanish Colonial Revival architecture designed by master architect W.H. 
Weeks. Accordingly, the building should be considered a historical resource for purposes of the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).

--- page 481 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
30 
 
7. BIBLIOGRAPHY 
“An Architectural Achievement in California: Some Recent Schools of Wm. H. Weeks, Architect.” The  
School Board Journal (November 1923): 1‐29. 
 
Building permit history for subject property provided by the City of San Mateo Planning Division. 
 
Cahill, B.J.S., A.I.A. “The Work of Mr. William H. Weeks, Architect.” The Architect and Engineer of  
California 41, no. 2 (May 1915): 39‐51. 
 
California Office of Historic Preservation. California Register and National Register: A Comparison (for the  
purposes of determining eligibility for the California Register), Technical Assistance Series #6. 
Sacramento: California Department of Parks and Recreation, n.d. Accessed December 4, 2017. 
http://ohp.parks.ca.gov/pages/1069/files/technical%20assistance%20bulletin%206%202011%20
update.pdf.  
 
D. Bromfield. Map of the City of San Mateo Also Showing the Latest Additions and Subdivisions. 1912.  
Historic Maps of the Bay Area, Earth Sciences and Map Library, UC Berkeley. Accessed December 
27, 2017. 
http://servlet1.lib.berkeley.edu:8080/mapviewer/searchcoll.execute.logic?coll=eartmaps&catno=
b22254291. 
 
Hynding, Alan. From Frontier to Suburb: the Story of the San Mateo Peninsula. Belmont: Star Publishing  
Company, 1992. 
 
Lewis, Betty. W.H. Weeks: Architect. Fresno: Panorama West Books, 1985. 
 
_____. “W.H. Weeks: California School Architect.” California History 64, no. 3 (Summer 1985): 226‐ 
229. 
 
National Park Service. How to Apply the National Register Criteria for Evaluation. Accessed December 4, 
2017. http://www.nps.gov/nr/publications/bulletins/nrb15/nrb15_8.htm. 
 
Postel, Mitchell. San Mateo: A Centennial History. San Francisco: Scottwall Associates, 1994. 
 
San Mateo County Historical Association. City of San Mateo Historic Building Survey Final Report.  
September 1989. Accessed December 4, 2017. 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/47850. 
 
Sanborn Fire Insurance Maps, San Mateo, California. 1920 Sheet 26; 1950, Sheet 27. 
 
Skehan, Pat and Bernie. “Carnegie Libraries of California.” Accessed December 1, 2017.  
http://www.carnegie‐libraries.org/california/architect/weeks.html. 
 
Stanger, Frank M. South from San Francisco: the Life Story of San Mateo County. San Mateo: San Mateo  
County Historical Association, 1963.

--- page 482 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
February 2018 
31 
 
United States Federal Census, 1900 and 1920. Accessed December 1, 2017. http://www.ancestry.com. 
 
United States Geological Survey (USGS). 1946 and 1974 aerial photographs of the subject property. 
EarthExplorer. Accessed January 10, 2018. http://earthexplorer.usgs.gov/.  
 
Newspapers 
 
“An Empty Space for Ideas.” San Mateo County Times. June 25, 2011. 
 
“Ben Franklin Hotel’s Erwin and Max Best.” The Times. May 3, 1974. 
 
“Benjamin Franklin Hotel has Historic Background.” The Post. June 26, 1963. 
 
Buchanan, Paul D. “The Benjamin Franklin: San Mateo’s Grand Hotel.” San Mateo Daily Journal. March 10,  
2001. 
 
“Fiesta Looks Back on History of Progress.” The Times. June 25, 1969. 
 
Gaiser, Sara. “Old Ben Had Rich History.” The Daily News. August 6, 2003. 
 
Kaye, Barry. “Sale of Benjamin Franklin Hotel to Empire Group Reportedly ‘Very Close.’” The Times.  
February 21, 1989. 
 
Kinney, Aaron. “City Sees Boost in Revival of Hotel.” San Mateo County Times. February 15, 2007. 
 
Melvin, Joshua. “New Owner for Hotel.” San Mateo County Times, April 16, 2011. 
 
Ramroop, Tara. “San Mateo’s Big Ben Stands Empty as City Seeks Owner.” San Mateo County Times.  
March 16, 2005. 
 
“Rice Hulls and Stucco Used to Build Walls.” Oakland Tribune. November 27, 1927. 
 
“San Mateo’s Biggest Hotel.” San Mateo Times. October 7, 1936. 
 
Svanevik, Michael, and Burgett, Shirley. “Benjamin Franklin Hotel Anchored San Mateo. The Daily News.  
July 16, 2011. 
 
Yates, Dana. “Historic Benjamin Franklin to Remain Hotel.” Daily Journal. June 3‐4, 2006.

--- page 483 ---


--- page 484 ---
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, CA 
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix A 
Existing Conditions Photographs

--- page 485 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
1 
 
Main (North) Façade 
 
 
Figure A1. 34-50 E. Third Avenue, view southwest (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
 Figure A2. North façade, view south (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 486 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
2 
 
 
Figure A3. Detail of the main entrance on the north façade,  
view south (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A4. Detail of the main entrance on the north façade,  
view south (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 487 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
3 
 
 
Figure A5. Secondary entrance and storefront on the west end of the north façade,  
view south (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A6. Secondary entrance and storefront on the east end of the north façade,  
view south (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 488 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
4 
 
East Façade 
 
 
Figure A7. East and north façades, view southwest (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A8. East façade, view southwest (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 489 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
5 
 
 
Figure A9. Alley along east façade, view southwest (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A10. Detail of east façade, view southwest (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 490 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
6 
 
 
Figure A11. Detail of the secondary entrance on the east façade, view west (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A12. Ground floor of the east façade, view northwest (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 491 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
7 
 
South (Rear) Façade  
 
Figure A13. South façade, view north (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A14. South façade, above the cafeteria, view north (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 492 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
8 
 
 
Figure A15. Detail of ornamentation on south façade, view north (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A16. Detail of a secondary on the south façade, view north (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 493 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
9 
 
 
Figure A17. Secondary entry on the south façade, view east (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A18. Detail of secondary entry on the south façade, view north (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 494 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
10 
 
 
Figure A19. Image of the cafeteria on the south façade, view north (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 495 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
11 
 
West Façade 
 
 
Figure A20. West façade, view southeast (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 496 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
12 
 
 
Figure A21. Detail of sign and fire escape, west façade, view southeast (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 497 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
13 
 
Penthouse 
 
 
Figure A22. Penthouse, view west (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A23. Penthouse, view west (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 498 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
14 
 
 
Figure A24. Penthouse, view west (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A25. Penthouse, view east (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 499 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
15 
 
 
Figure A26. Penthouse, view northeast (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A27. Penthouse, view east (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 500 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
16 
 
 
Figure A28. Detail of fire escape, view northwest (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 501 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
17 
 
North Side of Third Avenue (West to East) 
 
 
Figure A29. North side of Third Avenue, view northwest (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A30. North side of Third Avenue, view north (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 502 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
18 
 
 
Figure A31. North side of Third Avenue, view north (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A32. North side of Third Avenue, view north (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 503 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
19 
 
 
Figure A33. North side of Third Avenue, view north (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A34. North side of Third Avenue, view north (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 504 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
20 
 
 
Figure A35. North side of Third Avenue, view north (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A36. North side of Third Avenue, view north (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 505 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
21 
 
 
Figure A37. North side of Third Avenue, view north (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A38. North side of Third Avenue, view north (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 506 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
22 
 
 
Figure A39. North side of Third Avenue, view north (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A40. North side of Third Avenue, view north (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 507 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
23 
 
 
Figure A41. North side of Third Avenue, view north (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A42. North side of Third Avenue, view northeast (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 508 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
24 
 
South Side of Third Avenue (West to East) 
 
 
Figure A43. South side of Third Avenue, view southwest (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A44. South side of Third Avenue, view south (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 509 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
25 
 
 
Figure A45. South side of Third Avenue, view south (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A46. South side of Third Avenue, view south (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 510 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
26 
 
 
Figure A47. South side of Third Avenue, view south (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A48. South side of Third Avenue, view south (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 511 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
27 
 
 
Figure A49. South side of Third Avenue, view south (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A50. South side of Third Avenue, view south (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 512 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
28 
 
 
Figure A51. South side of Third Avenue, view south (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A52. South side of Third Avenue, view south (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 513 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
29 
 
 
Figure A53. South side of Third Avenue, view south (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A54. South side of Third Avenue, view south (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 514 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix A. Existing Conditions Photographs  
 
 
 
30 
 
 
Figure A55. South side of Third Avenue, view south (ARG, December 2017) 
 
 
Figure A56. South side of Third Avenue, view southeast (ARG, December 2017)

--- page 515 ---


--- page 516 ---
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, CA 
Historic Resource Evaluation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix B 
Historic Photographs

--- page 517 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix B. Historic Photographs  
 
 
 
1 
 
 
Figure B1. 1920s image of the recently completed Benjamin Franklin Hotel,  
looking east on E. Third Avenue. (San Mateo County Historical Association) 
 
 
Figure B2. 1920s image of E. Third Avenue in San Mateo. The Benjamin Franklin Hotel  
is to the right of the image. (San Mateo County Historical Association)

--- page 518 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix B. Historic Photographs  
 
 
 
2 
 
 
Figure B3. 1936 image of the Benjamin Franklin Hotel from the rear courtyard. 
(San Mateo Times, October 7, 1936) 
 
 
Figure B4. Undated photo of the Benjamin Franklin Hotel from the rear gardens. 
(San Mateo County Historical Association)

--- page 519 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix B. Historic Photographs  
 
 
 
3 
 
 
Figure B5. Undated image of E. Third Avenue with the Benjamin Franklin Hotel in the background. 
(San Mateo County Historical Association) 
 
 
Figure B6. 1948 image of E. Third Avenue with the Benjamin Franklin Hotel in the background. 
(San Mateo Public Library)

--- page 520 ---
Historic Resource Evaluation  
 
Architectural Resources Group  
34-50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
 
Appendix B. Historic Photographs  
 
 
 
4 
 
 
Figure B7. 1986 image of E. Third Avenue with the Benjamin Franklin Hotel in the background. 
(Peninsula, September 13, 1986)

--- page 521 ---


--- page 522 ---
PA-2018-054  /  034-143-290 & 034143280  /  44 E 3RD AVENUE  /  OCTOBER 2020 
 
 
 
1000 feet

--- page 523 ---
City of San Mateo General Plan - Applicable Policies  
Adopted October 18, 2010 
 
Development of the site is guided by the following relevant planning documents: 
 
1. General Plan Vision 2030 
Available online at:  http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?NID=2021 
 
2. City of San Mateo Zoning Code 
Available online at:  https://sanmateo.ca.us.open.law/us/ca/cities/san-mateo/code/27 
 
Applicable General Plan Elements and Policies are listed to facilitate further discussion and 
direction for the project at this preliminary stage.  
General Plan Vision 2030 
Land Use Element 
LU 1.10:  
Commercial Development. Encourage industrial, service, retail, and office 
development which is compatible with the desired character of the area and 
with adjacent residential areas in terms of intensity of use, height, bulk and 
design as delineated on the Land Use Plan, Building Height Plan and Building 
Intensity Plan. Commercial development adjacent to residential areas shall 
address concerns pertaining to traffic, truck loading, trash/recycling activities, 
noise, visual impacts, and public safety including hazardous material storage, fire 
safety, air pollutant emissions and odors. 
LU 1.11:  
Commercial Focal Areas. Concentrate the most intense office and retail uses at 
locations delineated on the Land Use Plan. Discourage such uses outside the 
commercial nodes delineated on the Land Use Plan. 
LU 1.15:  
Mixed Use. Encourage developments which mix commercial retail and office 
uses with residential uses at locations and intensities/densities as delineated on 
the Land Use Plan and Building Intensity Plan. 
LU 1.19:  
Legal Non-conforming Developments. Allow legally established nonconforming 
uses and buildings to be maintained and to be reconstructed if destroyed by fire 
or natural disaster; allow minor expansion of legal nonconforming 
developments. Encourage reconstruction and/or minor expansion to have a 
design which is visually compatible with surrounding development.

--- page 524 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2018-054 44 E. 3rd Ave. Draper University. Pre-Application 
Page 2 of 8 
 
 
LU 1.2: 
Land Use Plan. Adopt and maintain the Land Use Plan which graphically displays 
the intended uses and development intensity/density for all land within the 
planning area. 
LU 1.3: 
Land Use Standards. Adopt and maintain the land use categories included in 
Appendix B defining the range of intended uses and linked to development 
intensity/density limits. 
LU 1.5: 
Building Height.  Maintain maximum building height limits contained in 
Appendix C, and as specified in Policy LU 6A.2, closely matched with the Land 
Use categories and Building Intensity standards. 
LU 2.3:  
Local Employment. Encourage uses which provide opportunities for employment 
of all the City's residents, with emphasis placed on major employers that provide 
high value-added jobs. 
LU 2.4:  
Downtown Plan. Establish downtown San Mateo as the social, cultural, and 
economic center of the City with a wide range of office, medical, residential, 
entertainment, and retail uses at high intensities and densities while encouraging 
pedestrian activity and bicycle connectivity to adjacent neighborhoods. 
LU 2.5:  
Economic Development Plan. Update and maintain the Economic Development 
Strategy that encourages new private investment, increases employment 
opportunities, ensures a variety of commercial uses, develops a balance between 
high value-added employment and revenue generating business, and promotes 
San Mateo as an economically viable and competitive location. 
LU 3.1:  
Downtown Plan. As the social, cultural and economic center of the City, the 
downtown shall maintain a wide range of office, medical, residential, 
entertainment, and retail uses at high intensities and densities. 
LU 3.2:  
Significant Historic Structures. Protect key landmarks, historic structures, and the 
historic character that exists in parts of downtown as defined in the 
Conservation/Open Space Element. 
GOAL 4c:  
Health and Safety. Protect the community's health, safety, and welfare by 
maintaining adequate fire and life safety protection, providing a safe environment 
with a minimum of crime, reducing unreasonable risk to life and property caused 
by flooding, earthquakes or other natural disasters, and managing the use, 
storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials.

--- page 525 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2018-054 44 E. 3rd Ave. Draper University. Pre-Application 
Page 3 of 8 
 
 
LU 4.2:  
Developer's Contribution Policy. Require new development to pay on an 
equitable basis for new or expanded public improvements needed to support the 
new or changed land use or development. 
LU 4.32: 
Recycling and Composting.  Support programs to recycle solid waste in 
compliance with State requirements.  Require provisions for onsite recycling for 
all new development and expand composting of green waste and food scraps, as 
directed by the City’s Climate Action Plan which is an appendix of the General 
Plan.. 
LU 8.6: 
Waste Reduction. Reduce waste sent to landfills by San Mateo’s residents, 
businesses and visitors by a minimum of 75% from 2005 levels by 2020 by 
mandating recycling, setting aggressive waste reduction goals for all development, 
implementing composting programs, and increasing costs for residential and 
commercial waste collection then using increased waste collection revenue to 
provide waste reduction incentives. Supportive actions for waste and reduction 
are detailed in the Climate Action Plan. 
LU 8.9:  
Air Quality Construction Impacts. The City shall mitigate air quality impacts 
generated during construction activities by requiring the following measures:  
1.  
Use of appropriate dust control measures, based on project size and latest 
Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) guidance, shall be 
applied to all construction activities within San Mateo. 
2.  
Applicants seeking demolition permits shall demonstrate compliance with 
applicable BAAQMD requirements involving lead paint and asbestos 
containing materials (ACM’s) designed to mitigate exposure to lead paint 
and asbestos.  
3.  
Utilization of construction emission control measures recommended by 
BAAQMD as appropriate for the specifics of the project (e.g., length of time 
of construction and distance from sensitive receptors). This may include 
the utilization of low emission construction equipment, restrictions on the 
length of time of use of certain heavy-duty construction equipment, and 
utilization of methods to reduce emissions from construction equipment 
(alternative fuels, particulate matter traps and diesel particulate filters).

--- page 526 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2018-054 44 E. 3rd Ave. Draper University. Pre-Application 
Page 4 of 8 
 
 
Circulation Element 
C 2.4: 
Transportation Fee Ordinance.  Require new developments to pay for on-site 
improvements to meet the needs of development and their proportionate share 
of the costs for mitigating cumulative traffic impacts within the City of San Mateo.  
Utilize a Transportation Fee Ordinance to finance necessary off-site improvements 
equitably.  The off-site improvements will include intersection and street 
improvements to maintain intersection levels of service, traffic safety 
improvements and improvements to reduce single occupant vehicle trips such as 
bicycle system enhancements, pedestrian improvements, and trip reduction 
measures. 
C 4.1:  
Bicycle Master Plan. Implement the Bicycle Master Plan’s recommended 
programs and projects to create and maintain a fully-connected safe and logical 
bikeways system; support the City's Sustainable Transportation Actions; and 
coordinate with the countywide system. 
C 4.5: 
Pedestrian Enhancements with New Development.  Continue to require as a 
condition of development project approval the provision of sidewalks and 
wheelchair ramps where lacking and the repair or replacement of damaged 
sidewalks.  Require that utility poles, signs, street lights, and street landscaping on 
sidewalks be placed and maintained to permit wheelchair access and pedestrian 
use. Increase awareness of existing trails and routes by promoting these amenities 
to residents. 
C 4.7:  
Pedestrian Safety. Pedestrian safety shall be made a priority in the design of 
intersection and other roadway improvements. 
C 4.9:  
Pedestrian and Bicycle Connections. Implement an area-wide pedestrian and 
bicycle circulation plan which will result in convenient and direct connections 
throughout San Mateo. Implementing connections in the Rail Corridor Transit-
Oriented Development Plan (Corridor Plan) area and into adjacent neighborhoods 
and districts is a priority. 
GOAL 5:  
Provide an adequate parking supply for new development. 
C 5.1:  
Parking Standards.  
a. 
Review parking requirements periodically to ensure adequate parking 
supply as a condition of development approval.

--- page 527 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2018-054 44 E. 3rd Ave. Draper University. Pre-Application 
Page 5 of 8 
 
 
b. 
Review parking requirements periodically to ensure adequate parking 
supply for change and/or expansion of land use resulting in increased 
parking demand. 
C 6.2:  
Single Occupancy Vehicles. Reduce single occupant automobile usage for local 
trips by implementing flexible alternative transportation programs within San 
Mateo such as bike share programs, car share programs, additional local shuttles 
for Caltrain connections and other programs that support reduced single-
occupant vehicle trips. Partners and program opportunities are identified and in 
the Climate Action Plan. 
Urban Design Element 
UD 2.14: 
Sustainable Design and Building Construction.  Require new development and 
building alterations to conform with the City's Sustainable Initiatives Plan and 
subsequent City Council adopted goals, policies, and standards pertaining to 
sustainable building construction. 
UD 2.15:  
Integrate Sustainable Design. Encourage integration of sustainable design 
features and elements into the building early in the design process. Important 
considerations include:  
a.  
Use of recycled, sustainably harvested, or locally sourced building 
materials such as siding, paving, decking, and insulation. 
b.  
Preservation and/or adaptive reuse of structures is preferred over 
demolition. Recycle and reuse materials on-site from dismantling and/or 
demolition of a building or site improvements as much as possible. c. 
Consideration of heat reflecting roof systems to reduce roof heat gain. 
Balance the benefits of light colored roofs with aesthetics. 
UD 2.16:  
Design and Placement of Solar Access and Panels. Encourage applicants to 
incorporate solar energy systems into their projects. Building owners can minimize 
non-renewable heating and cooling methods and maximize solar heat gain by 
using solar panels and innovative building design features such as the use of 
overhangs, having south-facing windows and planting trees that provide shade. 
a. 
Building placement and adjacencies should be considered such that they 
do not unreasonably affect the solar access on neighboring residential 
properties.

--- page 528 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2018-054 44 E. 3rd Ave. Draper University. Pre-Application 
Page 6 of 8 
 
 
b. 
Solar panels and other roof-mounted equipment should be integrated into 
building design so as not to detract from the appearance of a home and 
reduce obtrusiveness. 
c. 
Roof mounted solar energy equipment and panel should be located below 
ridgelines and on sides of roof away from street view wherever possible. 
Non-glare and non-reflective type panels should be utilized. 
d. 
The design and placement of roof-mounted solar panels should account 
for the heights of existing trees and future growth. This applies to both 
trees on-site and on neighboring properties, including Heritage Trees and 
street trees. 
Conservation and Open Space Element 
C/OS 6.6: 
New Development Street Trees.  Require street tree planting as a condition of all 
new developments in accordance with the adopted Street Tree Master Plan. 
C/OS 6.7:  
Street Tree Planting. Encourage the planting of new street trees throughout the 
City. 
C/OS 6.8:  
Street Tree Preservation. Preserve existing street trees; ensure adequate siting, 
selection, and regular maintenance of City trees, including neighborhood 
participation, for the purpose of keeping the trees in a safe and aesthetic 
condition. 
C/OS 8.1:  
Historic Preservation. Preserve, where feasible, historic buildings as follows: 
a. Prohibit the demolition of historic buildings until a building permit is authorized 
subject to approval of a planning application. 
b. Require the applicant to submit alternatives on how to preserve the historic 
building as part of any planning application and implement methods of 
preservation unless health and safety requirements cannot be met.  
c. Require that all exterior renovations of historic buildings conform to the 
Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for 
Rehabilitating Historic Structures.  
d. Historic building shall mean buildings which are on or individually eligible for 
the National Register of Historic Places, California Register of Historical Resources, 
or Downtown Historic District contributor buildings as designated in the 1989

--- page 529 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2018-054 44 E. 3rd Ave. Draper University. Pre-Application 
Page 7 of 8 
 
 
Historic Building Survey Report, or as determined to be eligible through 
documentation contained in a historic resources report. 
C/OS 8.2:  
Historic Districts. Consider the protection of concentrations of buildings which 
convey the flavor of local historical periods or provide an atmosphere of 
exceptional architectural interest or integrity, after additional study. 
C/OS 8.3:  
Structure Rehabilitation. Promote the rehabilitation of historic structures; 
consider alternative building codes and give historic structures priority status for 
available rehabilitation funds. (Note: Related Safety Policy S 1.5.) 
C/OS 8.4:  
Inventory Maintenance. Establish and maintain an inventory of architecturally, 
culturally, and historically significant structures and sites. 
C/OS 8.5:  
Public Awareness. Foster public awareness and appreciation of the City's historic, 
architectural, and archaeological resources. 
C/OS 10.1:  
Public Open Space Design. Review planning applications for opportunities to 
promote exceptional design and use of public open spaces in new developments 
and new public buildings.  
Housing Element 
H 1.1:  
Residential Protection. Protect established single-family and multi-family 
residential areas by the following actions: 
1. Prevent the intrusion of incompatible uses not indicated in the Land Use 
Element as allowed in residential districts;  
2. Avoid the overconcentration on individual blocks of non-residential uses 
defined by the Land Use Element as being "potentially compatible" in residential 
areas;  
3. Assure that adequate buffers are provided between residential and non-
residential uses to provide design compatibility, protect privacy, and protect 
residences from impacts such as noise and traffic; and  
4. Review development proposals for conformance to the City's multi-family 
design guidelines for sites located in areas that contain substantial numbers of 
single-family homes to achieve projects more in keeping with the design character 
of single-family dwellings.

--- page 530 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2018-054 44 E. 3rd Ave. Draper University. Pre-Application 
Page 8 of 8 
 
 
H 2.12:  
Mixed Use. Continue the policy of encouraging residential uses in existing 
commercial areas, or in locating adjacent or near transit nodes, where the 
residences can be buffered from noise and safety concerns and can provide 
adequate on-site parking and usable open space. Provide floor area and/or height 
bonuses for residential development in selected areas of the City 
Noise Element 
N 2.1: 
Noise Ordinance. Continue implementation and enforcement of the City’s existing 
noise control ordinance: a) which prohibits noise that is annoying or injurious to 
neighbors of normal sensitivity, making such activity a public nuisance, and b) 
restricts the hours of construction to minimize noise impact. 
N 2.2: 
Minimize Noise Impact.   Protect all "noise sensitive" land uses listed in tables N-
1 and N-2 from adverse impacts caused by the noise generated on-site by new 
developments.  Incorporate necessary mitigation measures into development 
design to minimize noise impacts.  Prohibit long-term exposure increases of 3 dB 
(LDN) or above at the common property line, or new uses which generate noise 
levels of 60 dB (LDN) or above at the property line, excluding ambient noise levels.

--- page 531 ---
MIXED-USE DATA FORM 
NAME: 
 
44 E. 3rd Ave. Draper University 
Preliminary-Application 
 
PA: 
 
18-054 
ADDRESS:  
 
44 E. 3rd Ave. 
LAND AREA:  
 
16,805 SF 
 
ZONING:  
 
CBD 
APNs:   
 
034-143-280, -290 
FLOOR AREA 
 
TOTAL: 
 
PROPOSED 
 
 
65,875.6 SF 
 
 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED 
 
50,416 SF 
OFFICE: 
PROPOSED 
 
5,989 SF 
 
EXISTING 
 
0 SF 
RETAIL: 
 
PROPOSED 
 
5,549 SF 
EXISTING 
 
5,549 SF 
 
DORMITORY/RESIDENTIAL UNITS: 
PROPOSED 
 
66 units total 
 
EXISTING 
 
95 units total 
F.A.R.: 
 
PROPOSED 
 
3.92 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED 
 
3.00 (current SMMC) 
3.64 (legal non-conforming) 
 
BLDG. HEIGHT: 
PROPOSED 
 
103’-4” 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED 
 
55’ (SMMC/GP) 
103’-4” (legal non-conforming) 
 
STORIES 
PROPOSED 
 
9 (including penthouse) 
 
EXISTING 
 
9 (including penthouse) 
SETBACKS: 
 
Front (north/abuts 3rd Ave.): 
Left Side (west): 
Right Side (east): 
Rear (south):   
 
PROPOSED 
 
No change 
No change 
No change 
No change 
 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
 
0 
0 
0 
0 
COMMENTS:

--- page 532 ---
Architecture
Planning 
Conservation
Prepared for
City of San Mateo
Prepared by
Architectural Resources Group, Inc.  
San Francisco, California
July 2020
36-50 E. Third Avenue 
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards Analysis

--- page 533 ---
SAN FRANCISCO
Pier 9, The Embarcadero, Suite 107 
San Francisco, California 94111 
T: 415.421.1680
argsf.com
LOS ANGELES
360 E. 2nd Street, Suite 225 
Los Angeles, CA 90012 
T: 626.583.1401  
arg-la.com
PORTLAND
720 SW Washington Street, Suite 605 
Portland, OR 97205 
T: 971.256.5324
arg-pnw.com

--- page 534 ---
1 
 
 
 
 
36‐50 E. Third Avenue  
San Mateo, California 
 
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards Analysis  
July 2020 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
1. Introduction ................................................................................................................................................. 1 
2. Property Description and Character‐Defining Features .............................................................................. 2 
2.1 Summary Property Description .................................................................................................... 2 
2.2 Character‐Defining Features ........................................................................................................ 5 
3. Proposed Project .......................................................................................................................................... 6 
4. The Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation .................................................................... 11 
5. Project Assessment .................................................................................................................................... 13 
Appendix: Project Drawings ................................................................................................................... after 19 
 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
At the request of the City of San Mateo Planning Division, Architectural Resources Group (ARG) has 
completed this assessment of a proposed project at 36‐50 E. Third Avenue (APNs: 034‐143‐280 and ‐290) 
in downtown San Mateo, California, for conformance with the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for 
Rehabilitation. Assessment of the project was based on a review of the project drawings entitled “Draper 
University, 44 E 3rd Avenue, Planning Pre‐application Revisions” that were completed by Brereton 
Architects and dated June 1, 2019.  
 
In February 2018, ARG completed a Historic Resource Evaluation (HRE) for the property that included a 
detailed property description, construction chronology, historic context, and significance evaluation. ARG 
concluded that the Spanish Colonial Revival building, which was constructed in 1926 as the Benjamin 
Franklin Hotel, appears to be eligible for listing in the California Register of Historical Resources for its 
central role in the early‐twentieth‐century development of downtown San Mateo, as well as for being a 
distinctive and intact example of Spanish Colonial Revival architecture designed by renowned architect 
W.H. Weeks. Accordingly, the building appears to qualify as a historical resource for purposes of the 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). 
 
As described below, ARG finds that the proposed project, which entails addition of a stairwell and 
elevator at the rear corner of the building, is not in keeping with the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards 
for Rehabilitation. Where applicable, we identify modifications that would bring the project into greater 
conformance with the Standards.

--- page 535 ---
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards Analysis 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
36‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
July 2020 
2 
 
2. PROPERTY DESCRIPTION AND CHARACTER‐DEFINING FEATURES 
 
2.1 Summary Property Description 
The property at 36‐50 E. Third Avenue is located at the western edge of San Mateo’s downtown 
commercial district, on a rectangular parcel (APNs: 034‐143‐280, and ‐290) in the block bounded by E. 
Third Avenue, S. El Camino Real, E. Fourth Avenue, and S. San Mateo Drive. The subject property contains 
a large, mixed‐use eight‐story‐plus‐penthouse concrete building that is flush with the sidewalk. The 
building is largely symmetrical, contains a flat roof and parapet, and is clad in stucco. The north façade of 
the building (facing E. Third Avenue) is divided into eight bays. The façade is relatively simple in design, 
with the exception of Churrigueresque ornamentation at the second and uppermost stories. The corners 
on the north façade, from the ground level to the roof, are set in from the face of the building, 
contributing to its overall vertical emphasis. The penthouse, located within the central bays of the 
building, rises one story above the hotel block and features a silhouetted plaster ornament that projects 
above the parapet.1 
 
 
North façade of 36‐50 E. Third Avenue, looking south (ARG, December 2017). 
 
 
1 For a full description of the property and its construction history, see the Historic Resource Evaluation that ARG 
completed for the property in February 2018.

--- page 536 ---
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards Analysis 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
36‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
July 2020 
3 
 
 
Bird’s‐eye view of existing roof, looking south (Bing Maps, accessed May 21, 2020).  
 
 
South facade, looking north (ARG, December 2017).

--- page 537 ---
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards Analysis 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
36‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
July 2020 
4 
 
In 1926, prolific local architect William Henry (W.H.) Weeks designed the commercial building at the 
request of original owners A.C. Franklin and Benjamin Getz. The building served as the Benjamin Franklin 
Hotel from 1926 to 2003, was vacant from 2003 to 2011, and has since been used by Draper University. 
The property was previously surveyed as part of the City of San Mateo’s historic resources survey 
completed in 1989. The building was assigned Status Code 3/3D indicating it appears individually eligible 
for listing in the National Register of Historic Places (National Register) and as a contributor to the locally 
designated San Mateo Downtown Historic District. 
 
The property at 36‐50 E. Third Avenue retains a high level of integrity, with exterior modifications limited 
to storefront alterations on the ground level, some replaced doors and windows, and some non‐original 
brick cladding at the rear. Despite these changes, the building maintains integrity of design through its 
intact exterior architectural features. In particular, the building’s Churrigueresque ornamentation, 
elaborate window lintels and surrounds, wood sash double‐hung divided‐light windows, and overall form 
established in 1926 remain intact. In particular, no major exterior additions have been made to the 
building. 
 
 
1920s photograph showing the original configuration of the storefront entries at the Ben Franklin Hotel 
(San Mateo County Historical Association).

--- page 538 ---
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards Analysis 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
36‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
July 2020 
5 
 
2.2 Character‐Defining Features 
A character‐defining feature is an aspect of a building’s design, construction, or detail that is 
representative of the building’s function, type, or architectural style. Generally, character‐defining 
features include specific building systems, architectural ornament, construction details, massing, 
materials, craftsmanship, site characteristics, and landscaping within the period of significance. In order 
for an important historic resource to retain its significance, its character‐defining features must be 
retained to the greatest extent possible. An understanding of a building’s character‐defining features is a 
crucial step in developing a rehabilitation plan that incorporates an appropriate level of restoration, 
rehabilitation, maintenance, and protection.  
 
As discussed in the Historic Resource Evaluation, the property at 36‐50 E. Third Avenue is an excellent 
example of commercial Spanish Colonial Revival architecture. Based on site reconnaissance and historical 
research, ARG has identified the following character‐defining features for the building: 
 
Overall 
 
Eight‐story‐plus‐penthouse height 
 
Flat roof with parapet 
 
Molded stringcourse between the seventh and eighth stories 
 
Stucco cladding 
 
Inset building corners 
 
Primary (North) Façade 
 
Symmetrical, eight‐bay configuration 
 
Construction to lot line with minimal setback 
 
Churrigueresque ornamentation at the second and uppermost stories, including elaborate 
window surrounds, paired colonettes, and curved parapets 
 
At penthouse, draped arch window with surrounds in the Churrigueresque style, surmounted by 
a plaster ornament that projects above the parapet  
 
Fenestration at second through eighth stories consisting of three‐over‐three, double‐hung, wood 
sash divided‐light windows 
 
Molded stringcourse above and below the windows at the second story 
 
At entry, terrazzo flooring with “Benjamin Franklin” inscription 
 
High degree of transparency at ground level (though existing fenestration and storefront 
assemblies are not original) 
 
South Façade 
 
Symmetrical, eight‐bay configuration 
 
At the second and seventh bays of the seventh and eighth story, Churrigueresque window 
surrounds including decorative lintels, colonettes and curved parapets 
 
Fenestration consisting of three‐over‐three, double‐hung, wood sash divided‐light windows and 
fixed six‐light wood‐sash windows 
 
Arched window openings at the seventh story 
 
East and West Façades 
 
Symmetrical, three‐bay configuration 
 
Fenestration consisting of three‐over‐three, double‐hung, wood sash divided‐light windows; and 
smaller wood sash sidelights

--- page 539 ---
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards Analysis 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
36‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
July 2020 
6 
 
 
At the seventh story, arched windows surmounted by Churrigueresque panels 
 
Metal fire escape at west façade  
 
Rear Wing 
 
Fixed, six‐light, wood‐sash windows 
 
Chimney with clay‐tile cap 
 
Three sets of fully glazed wood doors flanked by divided sidelights and transoms 
 
 
3. PROPOSED PROJECT 
The following summary project description is based on the project drawings entitled “Draper University, 
44 E 3rd Avenue, Planning Pre‐application Revisions” that were completed by Brereton Architects and 
dated June 1, 2019. 
 
This project proposes a change of use to the upper three levels of the building, including levels 7, 8, and 
penthouse/roof level. The existing residential dormitories on floors 7 and 8 will be eliminated and 
replaced with a proposed open office space and new accessible restrooms facilities. A 730 sq. ft. roof 
deck will be added at the penthouse level, which will also include offices and a conference room. These 
changes in use require elevator access to the penthouse and addition of a second exit stair.  
 
Exterior modifications that will support this change in use include: 
 
 
At the southeast corner of the building, construction of an exit stair, serving all levels. The existing 
basement access stair will be modified to accommodate this new egress stair. 
 
 
At the southeast corner of the building, construction of an accessible elevator serving the ground 
floor and upper 3 levels. The proposed elevator tower will include landings at the upper three 
levels. 
 
 
The proposed exterior skin is a mix of curtain wall glazing at the elevator tower, punched 
windows to complement the existing building glazing design at the stair tower, and painted 
stucco to match the existing building. 
 
 
Three new windows will be installed at the north wall of the penthouse, within the existing 
openings. 
 
 
A roof deck with guardrail will be installed at the northwest corner of the roof. 
 
 
Renderings from the June 1, 2019 drawing set are included on the following pages for reference. The full 
drawing set is attached to this report as an appendix.

--- page 540 ---
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards Analysis 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
36‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
July 2020 
7 
 
 
Rendering of east façade, looking west (taken from Brereton Architects, “Draper University, 44 E 3rd 
Avenue, Planning Pre‐application Revisions,” June 1, 2019).

--- page 541 ---
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards Analysis 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
36‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
July 2020 
8 
 
 
Rendering of north façade, looking south (taken from Brereton Architects, “Draper University, 44 E 3rd 
Avenue, Planning Pre‐application Revisions,” June 1, 2019).

--- page 542 ---
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards Analysis 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
36‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
July 2020 
9 
 
 
Bird’s‐eye view of east and north façades, looking south (taken from Brereton Architects, “Draper 
University, 44 E 3rd Avenue, Planning Pre‐application Revisions,” June 1, 2019).

--- page 543 ---
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards Analysis 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
36‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
July 2020 
10 
 
 
Bird’s‐eye view of south and east façades, looking northwest (taken from Brereton Architects, “Draper 
University, 44 E 3rd Avenue, Planning Pre‐application Revisions,” June 1, 2019).

--- page 544 ---
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards Analysis 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
36‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
July 2020 
11 
 
 
Bird’s‐eye view of south façade, looking north (taken from Brereton Architects, “Draper University, 44 E 
3rd Avenue, Planning Pre‐application Revisions,” June 1, 2019). 
 
 
4. THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR’S STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION 
The Secretary of the Interior’s Standards (the Standards) are a series of concepts developed by the United 
States Department of the Interior to assist in the continued preservation of a property’s historical 
significance through the preservation of character‐defining materials and features. They are intended to 
guide the appropriate maintenance, repair, and replacement of historic materials, and to direct the 
design of compatible new additions or alterations to historic buildings. The Standards are used by Federal, 
state, and local agencies to review both Federal and nonfederal rehabilitation proposals.

--- page 545 ---
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards Analysis 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
36‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
July 2020 
12 
 
In California, properties listed in, or formally determined eligible for listing in, the California Register of 
Historical Resources or a local historic register qualify as “historical resources” per the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and must be considered in the environmental review process. 
(Resources formally determined eligible for, or listed in, the National Register of Historic Places are 
automatically listed in the California Register of Historical Resources.) In general, a project involving a 
historical resource that has been determined to comply with the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards can 
be considered a project that will not cause a significant impact on the historic resource per CEQA. 
The Standards offer four approaches to the treatment of historic properties—preservation, rehabilitation, 
restoration, and reconstruction. The Standards for Rehabilitation (codified in 36 CFR 67 for use in the 
Federal Historic Preservation Tax Incentives program) address the most prevalent treatment. 
“Rehabilitation” is defined as “the process of returning a property to a state of utility, through repair or 
alteration, which makes possible an efficient contemporary use while preserving those portions and 
features of the property which are significant to its historic, architectural, and cultural values.”2 
 
The ten Standards are: 
 
1. A property will be used as it was historically or be given a new use that requires minimal change 
to its distinctive materials, features, spaces, and spatial relationships. 
2. The historic character of a property will be retained and preserved. The removal of distinctive 
materials or alteration of features, spaces, and spatial relationships that characterize a property 
will be avoided. 
3. Each property will be recognized as a physical record of its time, place, and use. Changes that 
create a false sense of historical development, such as adding conjectural features or elements 
from other historic properties will not be undertaken. 
4. Changes to a property that have acquired historic significance in their own right will be retained 
and preserved. 
5. Distinctive materials, features, finishes, and construction techniques or examples of 
craftsmanship that characterize a property will be preserved. 
6. Deteriorated historic features will be repaired rather than replaced. Where the severity of 
deterioration requires replacement of a distinctive feature, the new feature will match the old in 
design, color, texture, and where possible, materials. Replacement of missing features will be 
substantiated by documentary and physical evidence. 
7. Chemicals or physical treatments, if appropriate, will be undertaken using the gentlest means 
possible. Treatments that cause damage to historic materials will not be used. 
8. Archaeological resources will be protected and preserved in place. If such resources must be 
disturbed, mitigation measures will be undertaken. 
9. New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction will not destroy historic 
materials, features, and spatial relationships that characterize the property. The new work shall 
be differentiated from the old and will be compatible with the historic materials, features, size, 
scale and proportion, and massing to protect the integrity of the property and its environment. 
10. New additions and adjacent or related new construction will be undertaken in such a manner 
that, if removed in the future, the essential form and integrity of the historic property and its 
environment would be unimpaired. 
 
2 National Park Service, The Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation, online at 
http://www.nps.gov/tps/standards/rehabilitation/rehab/stand.htm (accessed June 2020).

--- page 546 ---
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards Analysis 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
36‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
July 2020 
13 
 
5. PROJECT ASSESSMENT 
Assessment of the project was based on a review of the project drawings entitled “Draper University, 44 E 
3rd Avenue, Planning Pre‐application Revisions” that were completed by Brereton Architects and dated 
June 1, 2019. (These drawings are included as an appendix to this report.) The following chart 
summarizes how each of the building’s character‐defining features would be affected by the proposed 
project.  
 
FEATURE 
PROPOSED TREATMENT
Overall 
Eight‐story‐plus‐penthouse height 
Retained 
Flat roof with parapet 
Retained 
Molded stringcourse between the seventh and eighth stories
Retained, except for portion at 
east end of south façade  
Stucco cladding 
Retained 
Inset building corners 
Retained, except at southwest 
corner 
Primary (North) Façade 
Symmetrical, eight‐bay configuration 
Retained 
Construction to lot line with minimal setback
Retained 
Churrigueresque ornamentation at the second and uppermost stories, including 
elaborate window surrounds, paired colonettes, and curved parapets 
Retained 
At penthouse, draped arch window with surrounds in the Churrigueresque 
style, surmounted by a plaster ornament that projects above the parapet 
Partially retained: draped arch 
window to be replaced 
Fenestration at second through eighth stories consisting of three‐over‐three, 
double‐hung, wood sash divided‐light windows 
Retained 
Molded stringcourse above and below the windows at the second story
Retained 
At entry, terrazzo flooring with “Benjamin Franklin” inscription
Retained 
High degree of transparency at ground level (though existing fenestration and 
storefront assemblies are not original) 
Retained 
South Façade 
Symmetrical, eight‐bay configuration 
Modified through addition of 
stairwell and elevator 
At second and seventh bays of seventh and eighth story, Churrigueresque 
window surrounds including decorative lintels, colonettes and curved parapets 
Retained at second bay, lost at 
seventh bay 
Fenestration consisting of three‐over‐three, double‐hung, wood sash divided‐
light windows and fixed six‐light wood‐sash windows 
Partially retained (loss of 
windows behind stairwell) 
Arched window openings at the seventh story
Partially retained (6 of 8 
windows retained) 
East and West Façades 
Symmetrical, three‐bay configuration 
Retained at west façade; 
partially retained at east 
façade through addition of 
elevator shaft 
Fenestration consisting of three‐over‐three, double‐hung, wood sash divided‐
light windows; and smaller wood sash sidelights 
Retained 
At the seventh story, arched windows surmounted by Churrigueresque panels
Retained 
Metal fire escape at west façade  
Retained 
Rear Wing 
Fixed, six‐light, wood‐sash windows 
Retained 
Chimney with clay‐tile cap 
Retained 
Three sets of fully glazed wood doors flanked by divided sidelights and transoms
Retained

--- page 547 ---
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards Analysis 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
36‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
July 2020 
14 
 
This report concludes with our assessment of the proposed project’s conformance with respect to each of 
the ten Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation. In particular, our assessment includes a 
series of recommendations that would increase the project’s conformance with Standards 1, 2, 5 and 9.   
 
1. A property will be used as it was historically or be given a new use that requires minimal change to its 
distinctive materials, features, spaces, and spatial relationships. 
 
The proposed project entails a partial change to the building use, in that the upper floors (seventh, eight, 
and penthouse) would be converted from residential to office space. (No change in use for the basement 
or first six stories of the building is proposed.) Access is currently provided by a stairwell to all three floors 
and by an elevator to the seventh and eight floors. The proposed change in use requires addition of a 
second stairwell and elevator accessing these upper floors. This stairwell and elevator shaft, however, 
have been positioned at the rear corner of the building, so as to minimally affect the building’s 
architectural character. The only changes proposed for the primary (north) façade involve installation of a 
roof deck guardrail and modification of the penthouse window openings. We address each in turn.  
 
A rooftop guardrail with tempered glass is proposed at the northwest corner of the building, in 
connection with a new penthouse roof deck at that location. The guardrail would sit behind the existing 
parapet, and, as shown in the project drawings, would not extend far enough above the parapet to be 
visible to a street level observer standing across the street. As a result, the proposed guardrail would not 
adversely affect the building’s distinctive materials, features, spaces, and spatial relationships. 
 
Currently, the north wall of the penthouse features a central window with draped arch flanked by arched 
blind windows (also with draped arches), all surrounded by elaborate Churrigueresque ornamentation 
with cartouches, colonettes, and a projecting parapet. This composition is the building’s most grandiose 
ornamental element and, sitting atop the central bay, serves as the building’s stylistic capstone.  
 
 
Window at north façade of penthouse (ARG, January 2018).

--- page 548 ---
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards Analysis 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
36‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
July 2020 
15 
 
The penthouse floor plan included in the project drawings note that a new “punched window” will be 
inserted into all three openings. The rendering of the north façade shows rectangular, one‐over‐one 
windows fit into the three openings: 
 
 
Detail taken from Brereton Architects, “Draper University, 44 E 3rd Avenue, Planning Pre‐application 
Revisions,” June 1, 2019. 
 
Given the prominence and stylistic importance of this portion of the primary façade, additional detail is 
needed in the project drawings to confirm that the window treatments proposed at this location will not 
entail unnecessary loss of distinctive materials and features. In particular: 
 
 
The existing central one‐over‐one window, which is especially distinctive because it has been 
custom cut to match its surround, should be repaired if necessary and retained in place. 
 
 
The windows proposed for insertion into the existing flanking blind windows should be wood 
windows that, to the extent possible, match the shape of the opening in the surrounding 
ornamentation. These flanking windows could be one‐over‐one, or could feature more elaborate 
patterns of divided lights.  
 
Incorporation of these provisions would bring the project into greater conformance with this Standard.   
 
2. The historic character of a property will be retained and preserved. The removal of distinctive materials 
or alteration of features, spaces, and spatial relationships that characterize a property will be avoided. 
 
In general, by being attached to the rear corner of the building, the proposed stairwell and elevator 
would be located so as to not affect the building’s distinctive features and spatial relationships. (The 
architectural design of the proposed addition is addressed below under Standard 9.) In particular, apart 
from the penthouse window changes discussed under standard 1, the project does not entail 
modification of the building’s primary (north) façade.

--- page 549 ---
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards Analysis 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
36‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
July 2020 
16 
 
However, because it would obscure the eastern two bays on the building’s rear (south) façade, the 
proposed project would obscure two bays of original windows at the third through eighth stories, and 
would entail the loss of one of the two Churrigueresque window surrounds – including decorative lintels, 
colonettes and curved parapets – at the seventh and eight stories. The addition would also interrupt the 
molded stringcourse that otherwise extends around the entire building between the seventh and eighth 
stories.  
 
 
View of Churrigueresque window surrounds at seventh and eight stories of the south façade  (ARG, 
December 2017). 
 
It should be underscored, though, that all of these features are on the building’s rear façade and, 
moreover, duplicate examples of each feature, including the elaborate Churrigueresque window 
surround, will remain intact elsewhere on the building. Given that, we recommend that the project 
drawings be amended to note that the following elements will be salvaged and stored, so that they could 
replace duplicate extant features should said features require replacement in the future: 
 
 
Rectangular three‐over‐three, double‐hung, wood sash divided‐light windows at the third 
through eighth stories, including the two arched windows at the seventh story 
 
At the seventh and eighth story, the Churrigueresque window surround, including six decorative 
lintels, six colonettes and a curved parapet. Any features deemed too brittle to salvage should 
undergo a high‐resolution, three‐dimensional laser scan to allow for exacting reproduction in the 
future. Copies of the digital files created by this laser scan should be provided to one or more 
local repositories (such as the San Mateo Public Library, the San Mateo County Historical 
Association, and/or the City of San Mateo Community Development Department) for long‐term 
storage.

--- page 550 ---
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards Analysis 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
36‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
July 2020 
17 
 
(Given the comparative ease of duplicating it in the future, the stringcourse segment that would be 
removed is not proposed for salvage.) Incorporation of this salvage provision would bring the project into 
greater conformance with this Standard.   
 
3. Each property will be recognized as a physical record of its time, place, and use. Changes that create a 
false sense of historical development, such as adding conjectural features or elements from other historic 
properties will not be undertaken. 
 
The project does not entail addition of any features that would create a false sense of historical 
development. As discussed further under Standard 9, the contemporary design of the new stairwell and 
elevator will clearly mark them as later‐day alterations to the historic building. The project is in 
conformance with this Standard. 
 
4. Changes to a property that have acquired historic significance in their own right will be retained and 
preserved. 
 
The proposed project does not entail removal of any non‐original exterior features that have the 
potential to be considered significant in their own right. The project is in conformance with this Standard. 
 
5. Distinctive materials, features, finishes, and construction techniques or examples of craftsmanship that 
characterize a property will be preserved. 
 
See discussion under Standard 2. The proposed project entails loss of some distinctive features on the 
building’s rear façade, including two bays of original windows at the third through eighth stories, a 
molded stringcourse, and a Churrigueresque window surround at the seventh and eight stories. Salvaging 
and storing those elements would bring the project into greater conformance with this Standard.   
 
6. Deteriorated historic features will be repaired rather than replaced. Where the severity of deterioration 
requires replacement of a distinctive feature, the new feature will match the old in design, color, texture, 
and where possible, materials. Replacement of missing features will be substantiated by documentary and 
physical evidence. 
 
The proposed project does not entail repair or replacement of any historic features. The project is in 
conformance with this Standard. 
 
7. Chemicals or physical treatments, if appropriate, will be undertaken using the gentlest means possible. 
Treatments that cause damage to historic materials will not be used. 
 
The project drawings do not specify any cleaning of or other treatment of historic materials. The project is 
in conformance with this Standard. 
 
8. Archaeological resources will be protected and preserved in place. If such resources must be disturbed, 
mitigation measures will be undertaken. 
 
The excavation needed to accommodate the new stairwell and elevator is limited and falls almost entirely 
within the existing building footprint. As a result, the proposed project is not anticipated to disturb any 
archaeological resources. The project is in conformance with this Standard.

--- page 551 ---
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards Analysis 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
36‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
July 2020 
18 
 
9. New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction will not destroy historic materials, 
features, and spatial relationships that characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated 
from the old and will be compatible with the historic materials, features, size, scale and proportion, and 
massing to protect the integrity of the property and its environment. 
 
Proposed south elevation (taken from Brereton Architects, “Draper University, 44 E 3rd Avenue, Planning 
Pre‐application Revisions,” June 1, 2019). The western wall of the proposed addition should be shifted 
eastward so as not to partially obscure the building’s sixth bay.  
 
The stairwell and elevator addition’s location at the rear corner of the building reduces its prominence 
and helps to minimize its impact on the existing building. In addition, the south wall at the stairwell, which 
consists of punched windows the same size as this façade’s historic windows surrounded by unadorned 
stucco cladding, is compatible with the building’s Spanish Colonial Revival Style while, through its 
comparative simplicity, clearly being a contemporary addition.    
 
That said, the proposed design could be modified to better conform to this Standard: 
 
 
The architectural plans and renderings show the western wall of the addition meeting the existing 
building at the eastern edge of the windows in the sixth bay. The addition’s western wall should 
be shifted eastward so as not to infringe in the windows at the sixth bay. Ideally, this western wall 
would be shifted to align with the midpoint between the existing windows at the sixth and 
seventh bays, so as not to obscure any portion of the sixth bay.

--- page 552 ---
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards Analysis 
 
Architectural Resources Group  
36‐50 E. Third Avenue, San Mateo, California 
 
July 2020 
19 
 
 
The two bays of  punched windows at the stairwell should be shifted to be aligned with the 
original window openings they are obscuring. In particular, based on the project drawings, it 
appears that the left bay of new windows should be shifted rightward, and the right bay of 
windows should be shifter leftward. This change will reduce the extent to which the addition 
modifies the symmetric character of the rear façade.  
 
 
The full height glazing at the elevator shaft and penthouse level of the stairwell is starkly at odds 
with the building’s Spanish Colonial Revival Style. Instead, we recommend that the design 
approach at the stairwell (stucco cladding with punched windows) be extended to the entire 
addition. This will enable the addition to be compatible with the historic building, while at the 
same time, through slightly simpler window, wall and roofline treatments, be differentiated from 
it.     
 
 
The compatibility of the addition could be further reinforced through:  
 
o addition of a string course between the seventh and eighth stories that is similar to but 
simpler than that on the existing building; and 
o Arched window openings at the south wall of the seventh story that match the existing 
window openings at that location. 
 
Addition of these features could help “tie” the addition to the existing building without creating a 
false sense of historic development.   
 
These modifications would bring the project into greater conformance with this Standard.  
 
10. New additions and adjacent or related new construction will be undertaken in such a manner that, if 
removed in the future, the essential form and integrity of the historic property and its environment would 
be unimpaired. 
 
The proposed project entails irreversible loss of some distinctive features on the building’s rear façade, 
including two bays of original windows at the third through eighth stories, and a Churrigueresque window 
surround at the seventh and eight stories. Loss of these select features, however, would not impair the 
“essential form and integrity” of the historic building in the unlikely event that the stairwell and elevator 
addition was removed in the future. In particular, the historic wall that would be partially obscured by the 
addition will remain in place and could be restored following removal of the addition. As a result, the 
project is in conformance with this Standard.

--- page 553 ---
36‐50 E. Third Avenue  San Mateo, CA 
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards Analysis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix: Brereton Architects,  
“Draper University, 44 E 3rd Avenue, Planning Pre‐application Revisions,” June 1, 2019

--- page 554 ---
PLUMBING CALCULATIONS - EXISTING 
PROJECT DIRECTORY
VICINITY MAP
PROJECT SCOPE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
OCCUPANCY LOAD - PROPOSED
BUILDING INFORMATION
OCCUPANCY LOAD - EXISTING
PARKING CALCULATIONS
PLUMBING CALCULATIONS - PROPOSED
BICYCLE PARKING - EXISTING
BICYCLE PARKING - PROPOSED
PARKING REQUIREMENTS - EXISTING
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - COVER SHEET
44 E 3rd Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94401

--- page 555 ---
FOR REFERANCE ONLY
FOR REFERENCE
FEBRUARY 26, 2019
JUNE 01, 2019

--- page 556 ---
FOR REFERANCE ONLY
FOR REFERENCE
FEBRUARY 26, 2019
JUNE 01, 2019

--- page 557 ---
LANDS OF SULLY

SAN MATEO

LANDS OF CITY OF

4.16 33.75 53.45

4,00"
CITY OF SAN MATEO
(2729 OR. 633)
33.60
=a» _,@PILLAR

34.82 5428° CONCRETE 33.48
34.82

y FF=33.82

BUILDING

36.07,

2 A 34.16,
4/, concrete 34.97
»
‘i

4 RCE!
wirso'oorw —127Rce =

34.907) REESE” gt “PILLAR

34:82
FF=35.17/7) 4) og

Sv

4

MRM=34.3f 33.93]

7
oP’?

35.62/ GY

aC IM TELEPHONE

VAULT

LANDS OF BLUMENTHAL

~
SENSOR

Z
Z Tos FF=33,96
34, wf) \33.94 sa09
BUILDING y AAS" | CONORETE ee le 7, BuLDING
nso y — ae 3 ELETRIC METER
Z “5 3o70 BM | 388
Y
ae Lu Te 7) » Yaz 34.15
Y| 34.8
y
y LANDS OF WONG
Z| CONCRETE
Y BUILDING
Ysa
Yo. Sa,
BUILDING y f
y y
y ea", Ys 61
Y Ga
y 345: y FF=35.01
y 4 G 10.00"
Z_ city OF SAN MATEO
54 y 4 iy (2751 OR, 301)
, . 4
Y MMM LoT
Y 3470” |Z MAP:
y “a (7 Fr=3492 1B MAPS 1
G
10.00" Z 4 V7
CITY OF SAN MATEO Z y
[— Y ¢ Y
(2751 O.R. 301) y 34.78 | Gy a
BUILDING q 4 J ©
37.45 YW ses0 asf 1G 2
LUM 34.58 Mey ing y 2
UMMM, 33.94/, PLANTER fan234.93|/,  BULDING 5
4 ‘ \34.254 4 Gee INV=29.93 |Z Zz,
o.  S895 -conorete.., ja.ze W425 spa caw 4 a
Sy 1ztRe? — sp a 9 TH R762 *34:40/ we 45. 3470 J 34.44 >
2 a 97.84 BILSLIN, “i536 eo EW <
36.89, #5 BOL ANDS OF
im Snore, eset of tan, saaveD, L . &
rras.9/| (|G ay 3 V7, HEART OF SAN MATEO, LUC g
ZY Ne iy 6 oad
y , 6 id Hes Nae peg) 3400 rt # a
Zn G a fa cs
ua A i Sts: 34:85 7rF=3492 Z 8
F=37.45 7) t ogo 54.83 PARCEL FOUR TWO-STORY 5
Y 31 staal?) "DOC. 2011-041489 CONCRETE /BRICK TC
Y x Z.__ 20’ EASEMENT FOR LIGHT, AIR, BUILDING :
. 4 Za, |B EN INGRESS & EGRESS
APN 034-143-260 Y ee V sae (1330 OR. 366)
cry oF ‘SAN MATEO Z gt) ub yr
(2767 OR. 498) Z| ay 7 Ree Keng PLOINS _ INGRESS/EGRESS
Deed |W ja) Gane | Gq SE EASEMENT WITH RIGHT TO CONSTRUCT
Y | Z & MAINTAIN. OVERHANGING EAVES,
TEO, LLC y 4g 34.84 G CONCRETE AWNINGS OR OTHER SIMILAR
2011041489 S (BENCH 4 PROJECTIONS WHICH SHALL BI
DOG 20tt—0416Aa —___-_--______- Z aan yy 34.91 CONSTRUCTED NOT LESS
Aw a6. a |° “| rarer N 13° ABOVE Roun
a R, 366
y 3718 trace |° , Uli LUMMMMMY yf Ul
Ya 34.95/ —\34.98 EI
Y 4 + ee 0H) . A
yy q 54.9 54.79) 34.75)
J 4 a dora oree THREE p : 48 :
“Hh a) fp2"tgee yg0.67 INGRESS &[EGRESS GASEMENTY | \34.82 7 S471
44.12 50.33 53.82 ON 36.9 we ‘ADe ; 2 concrete
4 Zl) 322% CATV a > 4
Z 37.58 I STH $m 29 _\35.01 4 4.88 34.59 La 53488
37.12 4 BW SE 35.05
Y a GATE 32.00 a, * '
y ‘ ae — it ee 3575 35.08 = sects aa Ee
37. J — Yr * = 65° | 36.88 —_ B “ae 000 ‘ 104489 “ “ +
3 SbF SHS 37.00 \3ZL 88] 2 35.39 x60. . 2011-
[fl Z, 4\ 36,93\38.02 wie ‘3705 {I \35.26 | Ota Sal] | 7sioce 13° INGRESS & EGRESS tann

VICINITY MAP

NO SCALE

LEGEND AND NOTES

——_— -- BOUNDARY LINE
-—— EASEMENT LINE

€ ELECTRICAL LINE (PER PAINT MARKINGS)
——« FENCE. LINE
6 GAS LINE (PER PAINT MARKINGS)
PROPERTY LINE
Ww WATER LINE (PER PAINT MARKINGS)
Bw BOTTOM OF WALL
FF FINISH FLOOR
INV INVERT
RP ROOF PEAK
Te TOP OF CURB
Tos TOP OF SLAB
Ww TOP OF WALL
° AD AREA DRAIN
* BFP BACK FLOW PREVENTOR
* BOL BOLLARD
Oca CABLE TV BOX
o CATCH BASIN
° co CLEAN-OUT
oe ELECTRICAL BOX
om ELECTRICAL METER
* FOC FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION
bo FIRE HYDRANT
oom GAS METER
DX cv GAS VALVE
Ddicv IRRIGATION CONTROL VALVE
8 JOINT POLE
* UGHT
° PM PARKING METER
© ssco SANITARY SEWER CLEAN-OUT
| SIGN
as SPRINKLER BOX
O SMH STORM DRAIN MANHOLE
os STREET LIGHT BOX
ot TELEPHONE VAULT
ow WATER METER
«us WATER SHUT-OFF
Ww WATER VALVE
BENCHMARK
PEK SPOTGRADE

| — CONCRETE CURB VY

BOL w/ CROSSWALK
iSOR /

0 5 10 20

SCALE: 1" = 10'

6)966~-1338

+ LAND SURVEYORS
'916)797-7363

SACRAMENTO REGION
3017 DOUGLAS BLVD, # 300

ROSEVILLE, CA 95661

LEA & BRAZE ENGINEERING, INC.

CIVIL ENGINEERS.

2495 INDUSTRIAL PKWY WEST
HAYWARD, CALIFORNIA 94545

BAY AREA REGION
(P) (510) 887-4086
(F) (810) 887-3019

Vx

APN: 034-143-280 & 290

CALIFORNIA

36 EAST 3RD AVENUE

SAN MATEO,

SAN MATEO COUNTY

BEN FRANKLIN HOTEL

PARTIAL
TOPOGRAPHIC
SURVEY

JOB NO: 2120214
SCALE: sid |

| SUS |



--- page 558 ---
DN
DN
3rd AVENUE
PRIVATE 
PARKING LOT
PRIVATE 
PARKING LOT
PARCEL NO. 034143080
PARCEL NO. 
034143090
PARCEL NO. 
034143060
PARCEL NO. 
034143050
PARCEL NO. 
034143040
PARCEL NO. 
034143310
PARCEL NO. 
034143230
PARCEL NO. 
034143270
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
POOL
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
SIDEWALK
12' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
PENTHOUSE 
ROOF
2ND FLOOR
ROOF
3RD 
FLOOR
ROOF
SIDEWALK
12' - 0"
50' - 0"
3rd AVENUE
EAST ROOF
WEST ROOF
ADDITIONAL (E) BICYCLE 
RACKS ACROSS THE STREET.
52' - 2"
97' - 10"
116' - 0"
127' - 0"
23' - 0"
103' - 1"
4' - 0"
(E) BICYCLE RACK
2ND FLOOR ROOF
(VAULTED)
(E) ACCESS
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXISTING SITE PLAN
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | scale: 1" = 10'-0" | AE1
TRUE 
NORTH

--- page 559 ---
UP
ELEV.
EQUIP. ROOM
STORAGE
STORAGE
OFFICE
STORAGE
STORAGE
WALK-IN
MACHINE ROOM
TOILET ROOM
STORAGE
STORAGE
STORAGE
LAUNDRY
FIRE PUMP ROOM
ELEC. ROOM
STORAGE
TELCOM. ROOM
WOMEN'S 
R.R.
MEN'S 
R.R.
ELEV.
LOBBY
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
TOILET 
ROOM
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXISTING BASEMENT
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" AE2

--- page 560 ---
DN
UP
DN
UP
UP
MAIN 
DINING 
LOBBY
ENTRY
STORAGE
LOUNGE
FIRESIDE 
LOUNGE
BANQUET
POOL
KITCHEN
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
(E) STREET 
TREE TYP.
(E) SHORT TERM 
BIKE PARKING 2 
BIKES PER RACK
(E) PLANTER.
(E) PLANTER.
PROPERTY LINE
(E) GREEN WALL
TO BE DEMO.
(E) ART WALL
TO REMAIN.
OFFICE
WOMENS
RESTROOM
MENS
RESTROOM
FCC
BAR AREA 
3rd AVENUE
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
SIDEWALK
12' - 0"
SIDE WALK
ADJACENT BLDG.
ADJACENT BLDG.
(E) ART WALL
TO REMAIN.
(E) ART WALL
TO REMAIN.
(E) PLANTER.
(E) PLANTER.
8' - 11"
BANQUET BAR
WALK-IN
10' - 6"
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXISTING GROUND FLOOR
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" AE3

--- page 561 ---
DN
UP
UP
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
MAINTENANCE 
PROPERTY 
MANAGER 
PM 
CONFERENCE 
ROOM
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
PM 
CONFERENCE 
ROOM
WORKOUT 
ROOM 
(E) STAIR #1
OPEN TO BELOW
ELEVATOR 
LOBBY
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
DN
GROUND 
FLOOR 
(E) ROOF
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
ADJACENT BLDG.
ADJACENT BLDG.
(E) EXIT 
PATH
FIRE ESCAPE  
3rd AVENUE
YOGA 
ROOM 
RESTROOM
REST
ROOM
RESTROOM
REST
ROOM
REST
ROOM
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXISTING 2ND FLOOR
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | 1/8" = 1'-0" AE4

--- page 562 ---
DN
UP
(E) STAIR #1
DORM 
ROOM 
ELEVATOR 
LOBBY
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
HALL
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
2ND 
FLOOR 
ROOF  
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE
2ND 
FLOOR 
ROOF  
FIRE ESCAPE  
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
ADJACENT BLDG.
SERVICE STAIR, 
ONLY OCCURS 
AT 3RD FLOOR
3rd AVENUE
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXISTING 3RD - 6TH FLOOR
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" | AE5

--- page 563 ---
DN
UP
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
ELEVATOR 
LOBBY
STAIR #2
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
HALL
FIRE ESCAPE  
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXISTING 7TH FLOOR
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" | AE6

--- page 564 ---
DN
UP
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
ELEVATOR 
LOBBY
STAIR #2
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
HALL
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
FIRE ESCAPE  
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXISTING 8TH FLOOR
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" | AE7

--- page 565 ---
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
STAIR #2
ELEV. 
SERVICE
MECH. 
ROOM
RESIDENTIAL 
(VACANT)
FIRE ESCAPE  
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
DN
UP
UP
(E) WEST ROOF 
(E) EAST ROOF 
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXISTING PENTHOUSE
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" | AE8

--- page 566 ---
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXISTING NORTH ELEVATION
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | scale: 1
8" = 1'-0" | AE9

--- page 567 ---
DRAPER UNIVERSITY
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXISTING EAST ELEVATION
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | scale: 1
8" = 1'-0" | AE10

--- page 568 ---
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXISTING SOUTH ELEVATION
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | scale: 1
8" = 1'-0" | AE11

--- page 569 ---
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXISTING WEST ELEVATION
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | scale: 1
8" = 1'-0" | AE12

--- page 570 ---
DN
DN
3rd AVENUE
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
POOL
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
A
E
D
C
B
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - EXISTING SITE PHOTOS
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | AE13
A
B
C
D
E

--- page 571 ---
DN
DN
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
SCOPE OF 
WORK
3rd AVENUE
15' - 6"
34' - 8"
PRIVATE 
PARKING LOT
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
PRIVATE 
PARKING LOT
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
PARCEL NO. 034143080
PARCEL NO. 
034143090
PARCEL 
NO. 
034143060
PARCEL NO. 
034143050
PARCEL NO. 
034143040
PARCEL NO. 
034143310
PARCEL NO. 
034143230
PARCEL NO. 
034143270
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
POOL
SIDEWALK
 
11' - 10"
(N) GREEN WALL
AT GROUND LEVEL 
THRU 2ND LEVEL.
50' - 0"
3rd AVENUE
(N) STAIR ROOF.
(N) ELEVATOR ROOF.
(N) CORRIDOR ROOF.
(E) PENTHOUSE 
ROOF
PENTHOUSE 
DECK
1ST FLOOR
ROOF
2ND 
FLOOR
ROOF
(E) EAST ROOF
(E) WEST ROOF
ADDITIONAL (E) BICYCLE 
RACKS ACROSS THE 
STREET AT HERO CITY.
(N) ELEVATED 
ELEVATOR LOBBY.
116' - 0"
52' - 2"
97' - 10"
PER CIVIL 
TOPOGRAPHIC
SURVEY DATED 
04/11/2012 
103' - 1"
4' - 0"
23' - 0"
127' - 0"
(E) BICYCLE RACK
(N) BICYCLE RACKS
5' - 1"
2ND FLOOR ROOF
(VAULTED)
(E) ACCESS
 
5' - 0"
 
10' - 0"
5' - 0" 5' - 0"
LINE INDICATES BUILDING 
BULK SETBACK.
31' - 4"
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED SITE PLAN
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | scale: 1" = 10'-0" A1

--- page 572 ---
UP
UP
EQUIP. ROOM
STORAGE
STORAGE
STORAGE
STORAGE
(E) STORAGE
(E) WALK-IN
COOLER
(E) MACHINE
ROOM
TOILET ROOM
STORAGE
STORAGE
STORAGE
LAUNDRY
FIRE PUMP ROOM
ELEC. ROOM
STORAGE
TELCO. ROOM
WOMEN'S 
R.R.
MEN'S 
R.R.
ELEV.
LOBBY
WATER 
CLOSET
STAIRS
(1/3 BLDG. DIA. DISTANCE)
46' - 5 1/2"
87' - 2"
97' - 6"
6' - 0"
40' - 6"
61' - 4"
10' - 4"
63' - 4"
(MAX BUILDING DIAGONAL)
138' - 10 1/4"
(E) ELEV. PIT
7' - 8"
8' - 1"
SCOPE
OF 
WORK
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
5' - 2"
11' - 5"
4' - 11"
5' - 11"
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED BASEMENT
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 09, 2019 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" A2

--- page 573 ---
UP
(1/3 BLDG. DIA. DISTANCE)
41' - 5"
25' - 7"
10' - 0"
(N) ELEV
(93 SF)
(E) STAIR #1
(N) CORRIDOR
(108 SF) 
ELEVATOR 
LOBBY
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
HALL
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DN
UP
2ND 
FLOOR 
ROOF  
UP
DN
112' - 2"
103' - 3"
OPEN
SCOPE OF WORK
(N) ELEV. 
GLAZING 
SHAFT 
WALL.
(N) STAIR
TOWER SOLID WALL 
EXT. SURFACE TO 
MATCH ADJACENT (E) 
FINISH
(N) PUNCHED 
WINDOWS.
3rd AVENUE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
(N) ELEV. 
TOWER SOLID WALL EXT. 
SURFACE TO MATCH 
ADJACENT (E) FINISH
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
ADJACENT BLDG.
FIRE ESCAPE  
(N) STAIR
(206 SF) 
2ND FLOOR ROOF 
(VAULTED)
5' - 0"
15' - 6"
1' - 2"
3' - 11"
5' - 8"
(MAX BUILDING DIAGONAL)
111' - 9 3/4"
5' - 1"
9' - 8"
5' - 0"
10' - 6"
CLR.
5' - 0"
FIRE ESCAPE  
CLR.
4' - 0"
DRAPER UNIVERISTY - PROPOSED 3RD - 6TH FLOOR
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" | A5

--- page 574 ---
UP
DN
UP
UP
UP
DN
(N) STAIR #2
(92 SF)
(N) ELEV
(93 SF)
(E) RESTAURANT
(E) LOBBY
ENTRY
CLOSET
(E) LOUNGE
(E) 
FIRESIDE 
LOUNGE
(E) BANQUET
(E) POOL
(N) EXIT CORRIDOR
(34 SF)
(N) ELEV. LOBBY
(141 SF)
(E) KITCHEN
(E) STREET 
TREE TYP.
(E) SHORT TERM 
BIKE PARKING 2 
BIKES PER RACK
(E) PLANTER.
(N) GREEN WALL
AT GROUND THRU 
2ND LEVEL.
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
(E) PLANTER.
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
46' - 6"
5' - 7"
13' - 6"
40' - 4"
SIDEWALK
12' - 0"
FCC
3' - 8"
(E) OFFICE
WOMENS
RESTROOM
MENS
RESTROOM
10' - 0"
9' - 11"
SCOPE 
OF 
WORK
(E) ART WALL
(N) SHORT TERM 
BIKE PARKING 2 
BIKES PER RACK
ADJACENT BLDG.
ADJACENT BLDG.
3rd AVENUE
(E) ART WALL
TO REMAIN.
(E) ART WALL
TO REMAIN.
(E) PLANTER.
(E) PLANTER.
5' - 8"
10' - 6"
3' - 10"
5' - 9"
3' - 10"
5' - 0"
5' - 1"
10' - 0"
5' - 0"
5' - 0"
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED GROUND FLOOR
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" A3

--- page 575 ---
DN
DN
DN
UP
(E) STAIR #1
OPEN TO BELOW
STORAGE 
ROOM 
MAINTANCE 
PROPERTY 
MANAGER 
PM 
CONFERANCE 
ROOM
ELEVATOR 
LOBBY
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
DORM 
ROOM 
HALL
PM 
CONFERANCE 
ROOM
WORKOUT 
ROOM 
UP
UP
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
112' - 2"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
(N) ELEV
(93 SF) 
(N) STAIR
(206 SF) 
27' - 4"
7' - 2"
SCOPE
OF
WORK
(N) ELEV. TOWER SOLID 
WALL EXT. SURFACE TO 
MATCH ADJACENT (E) 
FINISH
 
10' - 0"
103' - 3"
87' - 10"
BEN FRANKLIN CT.
ADJACENT BLDG.
ADJACENT BLDG.
GROUND 
FLOOR 
(E) ROOF
(E) EXIT 
PATH
FIRE ESCAPE  
(N) GREEN WALL
AT GROUND THRU 
2ND LEVEL.
3rd AVENUE
STORAGE 
ROOM 
(1/3 BLDG. DIA. DISTANCE)
51' - 8 1/4"
(MAX BUILDING DIAGONAL)
135' - 4 3/4"
5' - 0"
5' - 0"
5' - 1"
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED 2ND FLOOR
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | 1/8" = 1'-0" A4

--- page 576 ---
(1/3 BLDG. DIA. DISTANCE)
41' - 9"
(N) 
WOMENS
R.R.
(N) MENS
R.R.
ELEVATOR 
LOBBY
(N) ELEV
(93 SF) 
(N) STAIR
(206 SF) 
CONVERT DORMS TO
(N) OPEN OFFICE
(4,646 SF)
5' - 6"
53' - 0"
103' - 3"
DN
UP
STAIR #2
15' - 7"
SCOPE OF WORK
(N) ENCLOSED ELEVATED 
ELEVATOR LOBBY (151 SF)
(N) ELEV. GLAZING 
TOWER WALL.
(N) STAIR TOWER SOLID 
WALL EXT. SURFACE TO 
MATCH ADJACENT (E) 
FINISH.
(N) PUNCHED 
WINDOWS.
(N) ELEV. LOBBY 
GLAZED WALL.
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
FIRE ESCAPE  
10' - 7"
5' - 0"
25' - 7"
71' - 10"
(N) ELEV. 
TOWER SOLID WALL EXT. 
SURFACE TO MATCH 
ADJACENT (E) FINISH
3' - 10"
9' - 0"
19' - 8"
OPEN
(MAX BLDG. DIAGONAL)
115' - 5"
9' - 8"
5' - 1"
(N) STAIR TOWER TOTAL 
SQUARE FOOTAGE 552.
8 1/2"
CLR.
5' - 0"
CLR.
4' - 0"
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED 7TH FLOOR OPEN OFFICE
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" | A6

--- page 577 ---
UP
DN
UP
ELEVATOR 
LOBBY
STAIR #2
(MAX BLDG. DIAGONAL)
115' - 5"
CONVERT DORMS TO
(N) OPEN OFFICE
(4,646 SF)
71' - 10"
53' - 0"
103' - 3"
5' - 6"
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
(N)
WOMENS
R.R.
(N) MENS
R.R.
SCOPE OF WORK
(N) ELEV
(93 SF) 
(N) PUNCHED 
WINDOWS.
(N) ENCLOSED ELEVATED 
ELEVATOR LOBBY (151 SF)
(N) ELEV. GLAZING 
TOWER WALL.
(N) STAIR TOWER SOLID 
WALL EXT. SURFACE TO 
MATCH ADJACENT (E) 
FINISH.
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
(N) ELEV. 
TOWER SOLID WALL EXT. 
SURFACE TO MATCH 
ADJACENT (E) FINISH
FIRE ESCAPE  
(N) STAIR
(206 SF) 
25' - 7"
15' - 7"
3' - 10"
9' - 0"
19' - 8"
OPEN
9' - 8"
5' - 1"
(N) STAIR TOWER TOTAL 
SQUARE FOOTAGE 552.
CLR.
5' - 0"
8 1/2"
(1/3 BLDG. DIA. DISTANCE)
41' - 7"
CLR.
4' - 0"
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED 8TH FLOOR OPEN OFFICE
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" | A7

--- page 578 ---
DN
STAIR #2
(E) ELEV. 
SERVICE
(E) MECH. 
ROOM
PROPERTY LINE
71' - 10"
103' - 3"
53' - 0"
CONVERT DORMS TO  
(N) OPEN OFFICE
(953 SF)
(N) ELEV
(93 SF) 
(N) STAIR
(206 SF) 
DN
DN
15' - 7"
DN
SCOPE OF WORK
(N) STAIR GLAZING 
TOWER WALL.
(N) ROOF 
DECK
(730 SF) 
(E) WEST ROOF 
(E) EAST ROOF 
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
(N) ENCLOSED ELEVATED 
ELEVATOR LOBBY (327 SF)
(N) ELEV. 
GLAZING 
TOWER 
WALL.
(N) ELEV. LOBBY 
GLAZED WALL.
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
(N) ELEV. 
TOWER SOLID WALL EXT. 
SURFACE TO MATCH 
ADJACENT (E) FINISH
(E) FIRE ESCAPE  
(N) PUNCHED 
WINDOWS.
(N) STAIR GLAZING 
TOWER WALL.
(N)
WOMENS
R.R.
(N) MENS
R.R.
(N) STAIR GLAZING 
TOWER WALL.
5' - 6"
10' - 7"
10' - 0"
5' - 7"
(1/3 BLDG. DIA. DISTANCE)
40' - 2"
25' - 7"
9' - 8"
5' - 1"
(N) STAIR TOWER TOTAL 
SQUARE FOOTAGE 552.
2' - 8"
1' - 6"
(N) PORCELAIN 
PAVER ROOF DECK 
SEE A8/BB  
(E) DOORS TO REMAIN  
(N) GLASS DOORS 
+ - 8 1/2"
CLR.
5' - 0"
GROUND FLOOR
0' - 0"
PENTHOUSE
FLOOR
89' - 4"
6' - 0"
(E) BLDG
ACROSS THE
STREET
DRAPER UNIVERSITY CHANGE OF USE - PENTHOUSE
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
TRUE 
NORTH
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | scale: 1/8" = 1'-0" | A8
AA
BB

--- page 579 ---
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED NORTH ELEVATION
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | scale: 1
8" = 1'-0" | A9

--- page 580 ---
DRAPER UNIVERSITY
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED EAST ELEVATION
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | scale: 1
8" = 1'-0" |A10

--- page 581 ---
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED SOUTH ELEVATION
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | scale: 1
8" = 1'-0" |A11

--- page 582 ---
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED WEST ELEVATION
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | scale: 1
8" = 1'-0" |A12

--- page 583 ---
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED NORTH ELEVATION RENDER
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | A13

--- page 584 ---
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED SOUTHEAST ELEVATION RENDER
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | A14

--- page 585 ---
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED SOUTH ELEVATION RENDER
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | A15

--- page 586 ---
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED NORTH ELEVATION RENDER
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | A16

--- page 587 ---
DRAPER UNIVERSITY - PROPOSED EAST ELEVATION RENDER
44 E 3rd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
PLANNING PRE-APPLICATION REVISIONS | JUNE 01, 2019 | A17

--- page 588 ---
PA 2018-054 
44 E. 3rd Ave. Draper University Pre-Application 
SAMPLE FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL 
 
 
SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW (SPAR) – APPROVAL FINDINGS (SMMC 
27.08.030):  
 
The application shall be approved if the Commission finds all of the following to exist: 
 
1) The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the 
character of the neighborhood; 
2) The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth 
of the City;  
3) The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in 
the vicinity, and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or 
welfare; 
4) The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning 
Commission and City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct 
any violations of the zoning ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes 
that exist on the site; 
5) The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, 
crime prevention, and security. 
 
 
SPECIAL USE PERMIT (SUP) – APPROVAL FINDINGS (SMMC 27.74.020): 
 
Granting of granting of such permit will or will not adversely affect the general health, 
safety and/or welfare of the community, and that the use, if permitted, will not cause 
injury or disturbance to adjacent property traffic or by excessive noise, smoke, odor or 
noxious gas, dust, glare, heat or fumes, or industrial waste.

--- page 589 ---
MEETING NOTES: 
 
 
 
909 Montgomery Street, Suite 260 | San Francisco, CA 94133 | 415 546 3932 F | 415 546 1212 T 
 
Date: 
12 November 2020 
 
Presenters: 
 Wendy Lao 
City of San Mateo 
Planner 
 
 Tim Draper 
Draper University 
Head Riskmaster 
 
 Martin Kent 
Draper University 
Facilities Director 
 
 Michael J Castro 
Brereton Architects 
Project Architect 
 
Attendees: 
 
Tatiana Chau
Irene Yiu
Maxine Terner
Marah Doria - Hero City
Roc
Siri Srinivas
Vianey Villela
Andy Tang
Maddie Callander
Karen Mostes - Withrow
Daniel Sangyoon Kim
Asra
Wendy McArdle
Paul Jansen
Daria Venkova
RF
LZ
Lingling Kong
David Phillips
Jonathan
Megan Kurohara
Gina Kloes
Sunny Zhang
Sunny Zhang
Diego Rivera
Bobby Chao
Chris Young - Brereton
Rachel Ferry - Brereton
 
Project:  
Neighborhood Meeting – 44 E 3rd Draper University 
Location:   
44 E 3rd Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94401 
Planning 
Pre-App: 
PA2018-054 – 44 E 3rd Ave Pre-App 
 
 
ITEM: 
DESCRIPTION/DISCUSSION: 
 
INTRODUCTION: Wendy Lao, City of San Mateo Planning Department reviewed meeting agenda and outlined Pre-
Application process 
1. Preliminary Application (Pre-App) 
a. Neighborhood Meeting – intent/purpose to inform neighbors early in the process 
b. Planning Commission Study Session – Dec. 8, 2020, 7pm 
2. Formal Planning Application 
a. City Staff Review of Plans 
b. Planning Commission Public Hearing – TBD 
3. Building Permit – TBD 
 
OVERVIEW: 
Tim Draper, Draper University provided general overview of project 
1. Draper University creates excitement and “dynamicism” for the City of San Mateo 
2. 9th floor - attractive place for other venture capitalist to attract entrepreneurs and build economic value for 
city 
3. Building never completely full; plan to convert top 3 floors to commercial while still maintaining its original 
use on the remaining floors

--- page 590 ---
Meeting Notes 
Project:  
Neighborhood Meeting – 44 E 3rd Draper University 
Location:   
44 E 3rd Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94401 
PreApp No.: PA2018-054 – 44 E 3rd Ave Pre-App 
  
BRERETON 
 
 
 
2
PRESENTATION: Michael J Castro, Brereton presented project to Attendees showing graphic presentation via screen 
share. 
1. Partial change of use to the upper two floors and Penthouse Level converting those floors to office 
2. The design was sensitive to the historic nature and significance of the building which was constructed in 
1928 
3. Scope includes new stair and elevator tower at southeast corner of building to minimize its visibility from 
the front at E 3rd Avenue 
4. Elements of the existing building including horizontal datum lines from existing string courses or cornice 
lines and punched window openings were reflected in the new stair/elevator tower design creating a 
modified south and east façade that respects the historic character of the building 
5. Proposed stair and elevators provide life-safety and accessibility upgrades to the building 
a. New exit stair serves all floors and supplements existing enclosed central stair and fire escape 
providing three (3) means of egress from the high-rise tower of the building 
b. New elevator introduces a larger elevator cab that meets today’s accessibility and gurney minimum 
size requirements.  Existing passenger elevators are smaller than todays standards for accessibility 
6. Overview of the elevations 
a. North Elevation remaining the same with the exception of new window openings at center of 
building replacing existing blank panels with single-pane glazed windows per historic report 
recommendation 
b. East Elevation illustrating new stair/elevator tower at back southeast corner 
c. South Elevation illustrating new stair/elevator tower at southeast building corner.  Modifications to 
address comments from historic report include: 
i. Shifting stair/elevator tower to the east to provide additional separation from adjoining 
column of windows 
ii. Continuing horizontal datum from 7th Floor string course across new stair/elevator tower 
iii. Adding arched top window openings at 7th Floor to complement the arched windows at that 
floor 
d. West Elevation minimum visible changes with exception of new stair tower in background 
7. Overview of Penthouse Level 
a. New open arcade connecting stair and elevator to glazed Penthouse Lobby 
b. New roof deck on west end of roof 
c. New glass wall between office area and new west roof deck 
 
Q+A: 
Martin Kent, Draper University thanked the presenters and opened the meeting to the Question and 
Answer segment of the meeting 
1. Gina Kloes - one of the lead educators at Draper University 
a. Loyalty to Draper and San Mateo, people consider it home because of energy, growing resources, 
and wisdom Draper University provides 
b. Excited for this project. Adds another beautiful element to building 
c. Loyalty to building and branding. Many entrepreneurs move back to San Mateo after school and 
increase income in San Mateo 
d. Draper causes people to come back (even from Covid) to help the city 
e. Excited for San Mateo to support this project. Draper has spend a lot to maintain the building 
2. Maxine Terner 
a. Expressed concern about restaurant trash and ventilation in public alley, Ben Franklin Court 
i. Where elevator is going is where the current restaurant trash resides, “this area will need to 
be studied and thought through”

--- page 591 ---
Meeting Notes 
Project:  
Neighborhood Meeting – 44 E 3rd Draper University 
Location:   
44 E 3rd Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94401 
PreApp No.: PA2018-054 – 44 E 3rd Ave Pre-App 
  
BRERETON 
 
 
 
3
b. One of the nicest elements of Draper’s previous renovation is the public walkway and green wall, 
“walkway should be a wonderful thing for the public and maintain its character” 
c. What is happening with the façade detailing on the upper building tower where the new 
stair/elevator addition is proposed? 
3. Martin Kent 
a. Ensured that restaurant will continue to be a restaurant.  Current garbage room is provided in the 
basement for the restaurant 
4. Tim Draper 
a. Draper University wants to make improvements to both 44 E 3rd Avenue and Hero City across the 
street, which is not part of this Pre-App, with the intent of making the environment nicer for the city 
and the neighborhood 
b. We want to make the walkway (Ben Franklin Court) beautiful it will also be the front door and 
access to the new elevator and renovated upper office levels 
5. Wendy Lao 
a. Clarifies that the project is expected to comply with the historic standards and the project has 
already received and is addressing a historic report that has been prepared based on the proposed 
design 
6. Michael J Castro 
a. Points out that the configuration on Ben Franklin Court is similar to the existing configuration, will 
maintain the green wall, and this area will be studied further in regards to restaurant trash 
b. Clarifies that the proposed addition will remove the façade detailing on the South Elevation where 
the new stair/elevator tower will be added, and that had been addressed in the historic report as 
expected and acceptable.  The historic report recommends saving/storing the historic detailing for 
potential reuse or replacement at other areas of the building where similar detailing remains

--- page 592 ---
From:
Maxine Terner
To:
Wendy Lao
Subject:
Draper alley
Date:
Monday, June 24, 2019 6:44:24 PM
Follow up from our meeting today.

--- page 593 ---
2018.09.19

2019.06.19

r

—
724
j



--- page 594 ---
2019.06.08



--- page 595 ---
June 14, 2019 
Ms. Wendy Lao, Associate Planner 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
SUBJECT:  PA18-054 44-55 E. 3rd Ave. Pre-application 
Dear Ms. Lao, 
I am writing to express my deep concerns regarding Tim Draper’s proposed alterations to two 
Draper University buildings: the former Benjamin Franklin Hotel and the former Collective 
Building.  These two buildings are both individually eligible for the National Register of Historic 
Places, the California Register of Historic Resources, and part of our locally designated  
downtown historic district.  
Re 44 E. 3rd Ave., my concerns revolve around two primary issues:  
First, the “elevator enclosure and associated structures” as 
proposed would remove a major rear portion of the decorative 
Churrigueresque ornamentation that deﬁnes the character of both 
the front and rear facades, and result in the loss of more than a 
dozen original window openings.  The proposed structure would 
signiﬁcantly alter the rear facade, which like the front is a “primary” 
facade, risking the building’s individual National Register eligibility 
and possibly damaging the integrity of the historic district.   
Second, considering the original use of the building as a hotel, the current use of the building 
for student housing, and the pressing need for more housing downtown, the proposal to 
convert 3 ﬂoors of housing to oﬃce use, would seem inappropriate and contrary to the 
trajectory of the current General Plan process. 
Re 55 E. 3rd Ave., my concerns are:  
The overwhelming impression of both the front and rear 
facades of this wonderful Tudor style building is one of 
symmetry.  I am concerned that the proposed 
alterations to the window openings on both elevations 
may compromise that symmetry and possible historic 
integrity.  The building facades exhibit visible signs of 
deferred maintenance including peeling paint, missing 
roof tiles, etc.  Any alterations should be conditioned 
on maintaining, repairing, and repainting the building 
facades.

--- page 596 ---
My recommendations for proposed alterations on both buildings is to require early stage 
involvement by a preservation architect/consultant who can: 
  
1.
Review, evaluate and comment on the proposed alterations in the context of the Secretary 
of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation; 
2.
Propose alternative means for achieving code requirements under the California Historical 
Building Code;  
3.
Evaluate and comment on any potential impacts the proposed alteration would have to 
historic integrity of the building, and it’s individual eligibility for the National Register; and  
4.
Evaluate and comment on any potential impacts the proposed alterations would have to 
the integrity of the downtown historic district and it’s National Register eligibility. 
  
Thank you for your consideration. 
Sincerely, 
Keith Weber 
San Mateo 
CC: Kohar Kojayan, Community Development Director

--- page 597 ---
From:
Keith Weber
To:
Wendy Lao
Cc:
Christina Horrisberger; Aaron Aknin; Ellen Mallory; Ramiro Maldonado Jr.; John Ebneter; Mike Etheridge;
Margaret Williams
Subject:
44 E. Third Ave. (Draper University) Elevator Enclosure Pre-app
Date:
Wednesday, November 4, 2020 1:26:56 PM
Attachments:
Ltr. re PA18-054 Draper U..pdf
Dear Wendy,
I am writing in regards to the preliminary planning application for the addition of an exterior
elevator enclosure, staircase and associated structures at 44 E. 3rd Avenue, currently known as
Draper University.  My comments are consistent with my June 14, 2019 letter to you
(attached) and our in person meeting with Julia Klein regarding the same application.
As you know, 44 E. 3rd Ave., historically known as the Benjamin Franklin Hotel, is one of
San Mateo's most iconic and recognizable downtown landmarks.  It is individually eligible for
the National Register of Historic Places and the California Register of Historic Resources.  It
is a significant contributor to the Downtown Historic District, anchoring the district at its
western edge.  Designed by W. H. Weeks in the Spanish Colonial Revival style, its most
striking character defining feature is the elaborate exterior sculptural ornamentation known as
Churrigueresque.  The Churrigueresque ornamentation is most prominent on the upper floors
of both the front and rear facades.  Visible from 4th Avenue and parts of Central Park,
ornamentation on the rear facade  is clearly identifiable.  
The new elevator enclosure proposes to replace a large portion of this ornamentation on the
rear facade and irreversibly alter the most significant visible exterior "character
defining feature" of one of San Mateo's most treasured buildings.  
Has the applicant or the City staff consulted with an historic preservation architect to explore a
more sensitive design solution, one that would retain the ornamentation and integrity of the
rear facade?
Has the City staff contacted the State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO) to discuss the
impacts the proposed addition would have on the building's individual eligibility for the State
or National Registers and as a contributor to the Downtown Historic District?  (Julianne
Polanco, SHPO
916-445-7000).
I believe answers to these questions are essential to the processing of this application and
should be in hand before the project goes to the Planning Commission.  
Also, I am requesting copies of all evaluations, studies, reports or letters relevant to the
architectural or historical significance of this structure.
Thank you,
Keith Weber
San Mateo

--- page 598 ---
December 7, 2020 
 
Wendy Lao 
Associate Planner,  
City of San Mateo, Planning Division 
 
Dear Wendy: 
 
I wanted to share my strong support for Draper University as they contemplate various 
construction projects to renew their facilities. I wanted to offer my perspective as a citizen of San 
Mateo since 1994 and a homeowner since 1999. 
 
When I first moved to San Mateo as a renter, I was struck by the how little there was to do.  My 
wife and I would travel elsewhere for dinner and an evening out.  With the opening of Draeger’s 
and the creation of the theater district, suddenly San Mateo was a place to visit, to dine and to 
work. In my view, an equally an important component of the revitalization has been the 
intellectual and entrepreneurial vibrance Draper University has fostered.   
 
In my time in San Mateo, I have admired the work Tim Draper and his team have done from 
afar. Not only has Draper University breathed life into the historic Ben Franklin Hotel, but their 
initiatives attract a global network of entrepreneurs seeking insights into how to sustain 
businesses.  As Draper University adapts to changing conditions, it is important they have some 
flexibility to meet their commitment to the next generation of entrepreneurs and innovators: to 
create the very best facility to educate, incubate and fund startups.  In the last three years, I have 
had first-hand experience with Draper University staff, first as a consultant and as of last month, 
as a board member. I know that Tim and his team will respect the historic nature of the building 
while also ensuring those entrepreneurs from around the globe will have a world-class 
experience.  
 
As many employers depart the Bay Area for cheaper destinations, I sincerely hope San Mateo 
City Planning can demonstrate flexibility to Draper University as it renews its facilities.  Draper 
University is an employer committing to the long term with many of their improvements, which 
will enhance the functionality of these historic facilities.  As a former Stanford University 
employee, I applaud Draper for contributing a new model of education, one that helps people 
create business and jobs, many of whom will likely stay connected to the Bay Area and to San 
Mateo. Perhaps more important, Draper University will be attracting entrepreneurs from around 
the globe, making San Mateo a destination city in the heart of Silicon Valley.  Tim and his team 
have my wholehearted support in their efforts! 
 
 
Paul Marca

--- page 599 ---
I remember the old Benjamin Franklin hotel not as an iconic and historical structure but as a dilapidated 
building that cast a shadow of blight across downtown.  The building had been unused for years and the 
entrance smelled of urine.  The adjacent alley was so intimidating that, at night, my wife and I would 
walk around the block rather than risk an encounter.  As a resident of Foster City, I wondered how such 
a grand building fell into disrepair.  
My first encounter with Draper University was in 2012 during the initial planning commission meeting.  I 
attended the meeting to learn more about Tim Draper and the University.  I did not quite understand 
the University’s entrepreneurial purpose and connection to superheroes.  The people who attended the 
meeting will remember the bitterness displayed by a few residents towards the renovation.  It seemed 
they were more comfortable with an empty decaying building than developing a vibrant downtown that 
would provide jobs for community members and new opportunities for our youth.  
Luckily, Mr. Draper prevailed.  Anyone who compares pictures of the old Benjamin Franklin Hotel with 
Draper University will easily see the life that he breathed into the building and into our downtown.  In 
addition to the hotel, Mr. Draper transformed the building across the street from a consignment store to 
an open-air workspace were dozens of people work and hundreds gather for events.  This building 
served as the beginning of an ecosystem which eventually attracted many smaller ventures and led to 
our new vibrant downtown.   
You need only to walk around the block to witness the growth and prosperity that Mr. Draper has 
indirectly brought over the last eight years.  The El Camino and 3rd Street intersection was completely 
rebuilt and fitness, technology and healthy food alternatives filled the new buildings with jobs and 
revenue for the city.  Across downtown and along B Street, vacant storefronts opened up with dynamic 
new businesses.   
In the mornings you now smell a wonderful aroma of baking muffins and see a line of socially distanced 
people waiting to purchase a new baker’s goods.  This baker’s shop is directly adjacent to Draper 
University and the University students were among the first enthusiastic customers.    
There is certainly much about Draper University that we might not completely understand; however, I 
think that we can all agree that Mr. Draper has brought something special to our downtown.  Notably, 
he has become not only our biggest landowner but one of the more responsible ones.  
I have had the opportunity to review Mr. Draper’s new plans from the meeting last month.  As with my 
initial encounter with Draper University eight years ago, I might not understand everything.  However, I 
did notice that the plan was well thought out and most of the construction was behind the building.  I 
am certain that Mr. Draper will work with the community to find agreeable solutions to minor issues 
that might arise.  So far, his vision has worked well for our community and I look forward to seeing how 
the new construction benefits our downtown in ways I can’t imagine.  
Troy Ryder

--- page 600 ---
From:
Keith Weber
To:
Ellen Mallory; John Ebneter Planning Commissioner; Margaret Williams; Mike Etheridge; Ramiro Maldonado Jr.;
Christina Horrisberger; Sailesh Mehra; Wendy Lao; Naomi Miroglio
Subject:
Draper University Pre-App (PA-2018-054)
Date:
Monday, December 7, 2020 4:29:41 PM
Ellen Mallory, Chair, and members of the Planning Commission:
I have read both ARG reports included in the meeting materials regarding the negative impacts
on the historic integrity of this subject property.  Two historic reports established the
building's historic, architectural integrity and this project entails an "irreversible loss" of the
"distinctive features" that give the building its integrity.  
Because this is such an important historic building, the proposed project must be in
conformance with the Secretary of the Interior's Standards in order to move ahead.  Clearly,
the irreversible loss of distinctive character defining features is not in keeping with the intent
of the Secretary's Standards, which emphasize retention, repair, and preservation of these
features, not their removal. The suggestion that the cast plaster ornamentation could be
carefully removed without breakage or damage, and stored indefinitely, would make this
"irreversible loss" somehow acceptable, is at best a stretch.
The inescapable fact that the proposed project will cause an "irreversible loss" and impair the
"essential form and integrity" of the building as long as the addition remains in place is reason
enough to decline the project. The question the Planning Commission must ask is what is the
benefit to the City if it accepts an "irreversible loss" of significant distinctive ornamentation on
one of the City's most iconic and beloved buildings in exchange for 9 open office spaces and a
roof deck for private use?  How can this be justified?
The proposed new elevator and stair tower are only needed as handicap access to the
penthouse and a roof deck. The existing elevators already service the seventh and eighth
floors. My view is that the trade-off is large and the community benefits nil.  I urge the
Planning Commission to graciously decline the project as currently proposed and any future
proposals that do not preserve and protect the important character defining features of this
wonderful building. The City deserves better than this project promises.
Thank you for your consideration.
Keith Weber
San Mateo

--- page 601 ---
From:
Maxine Terner
To:
Ellen Mallory; John Ebneter; Margaret Williams; Mike Etheridge; Ramiro Maldonado Jr.
Cc:
Wendy Lao; Planning; Sailesh Mehra
Subject:
Study Session Item #3, Draper University
Date:
Monday, December 7, 2020 5:53:27 PM
Members of the Planning Commission: 
I have followed the Draper University project since its inception and have particularly
advocated for the enhancement of the public walkway between 3rd and 4th Avenues. This is a
well-used public alley with the potential to be an inviting and pleasant space, similar to alleys
in Carmel. The Conditions of Approval for the original project walkway specifically identified
a living wall to screen the restaurant trash area as a required element of the project.  FYI, the
living wall was identified on the project plans by their own landscape architect, not imposed
by the city. 
Sadly, this condition of approval has been neglected since the day it was put in and today the
living wall is more dead than alive. More importantly for your discussion tonight is the fact
that the existing trash area is necessary for the functioning of the restaurant which I was
assured would continue as a use.  At the neighborhood meeting I raised questions about how
restaurant trash removal would be handled since the proposed elevator will be located over the
existing trash holding area. I was told by Martin Kent, the Draper facilities director, that trash
was held in an area in the basement and brought to the surface in an existing service elevator. I
know this is not true. Furthermore, even the current plans do not identify any basement trash
area. 
Even if it were true, the proposed elevator to the penthouse will be built on top of the existing
service elevator from the basement to the ground level. So how will trash from the restaurant
get to the street for Recology pick-up?  It was clear from the neighborhood meeting discussion
that neither the architect nor applicant had thought about or addressed this trash issue. This is
not just an aesthetic issue related to public use and enjoyment of the public alleyway. IMHO,
this is a fatal design flaw and as the Planning Commission knows, "the devil's in the details." 
Frankly, nothing about this proposed project makes sense, especially since adding open office
space can easily be accommodated within the existing structure without the damage and cost
of the proposed elevator and stairs. Because of the inability to address trash removal
occurring on a public walkway and the negative impacts to the historic value of this iconic
downtown landmark, this project should not be approved.
Thank you for considering and addressing my concerns.
Maxine

--- page 602 ---
