SF police release body cam video, additional details on shooting that injured officer - Local News Matters Close DONATE TO SUPPORT LOCAL NEWS! Sign In Search for: Search Local News Open dropdown menu Featured News Bay Area News Marin News Matters Santa Clara County News Matters Mendocino News Matters Stockton News Matters Equity Ripples Amplifying Voices Inspire Me CA News Open dropdown menu California Currents California Local KQED Election Results Crime, Justice, & Prison News Open dropdown menu Inside/Out Crime & Public Safety Prison News The Big Issues Open dropdown menu Living Longer & Aging in the Bay Area Housing & Homelessness Public Health Environment Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Arts & Entertainment Bay City Books Travel Bay City Sketchbook Education & Youth Voices Open dropdown menu Education Matters Youth Voices Contra Costa Youth Journalism Technology, AI & Innovation Open dropdown menu Experiments with AI Science, Nature & Technology Data Points Special Projects Open dropdown menu Musk v. Altman Audio Files Bay City Beat Listen In Marin Remember When Talkers Trailblazers About Us Open dropdown menu About Our Staff About Our Board Bay City News Internships Frequently Asked Questions Newsletters Bay City News … in the News Sponsorships and Advertising Write for Local News Matters Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Close Local News Featured News Bay Area News Marin News Matters Santa Clara County News Matters Mendocino News Matters Stockton News Matters Equity Ripples Amplifying Voices Inspire Me CA News California Currents California Local KQED Election Results Crime, Justice, & Prison News Inside/Out Crime & Public Safety Prison News The Big Issues Living Longer & Aging in the Bay Area Housing & Homelessness Public Health Environment Arts & Culture Arts & Entertainment Bay City Books Travel Bay City Sketchbook Education & Youth Voices Education Matters Youth Voices Contra Costa Youth Journalism Technology, AI & Innovation Experiments with AI Science, Nature & Technology Data Points Special Projects Musk v. Altman Audio Files Bay City Beat Listen In Marin Remember When Talkers Trailblazers About Us About Our Staff About Our Board Bay City News Internships Frequently Asked Questions Newsletters Bay City News … in the News Sponsorships and Advertising Write for Local News Matters Skip to content Menu Local News Matters Connecting audiences with quality, local news DONATE TO SUPPORT LOCAL NEWS! Sign In Menu Sign In Local News Open dropdown menu Featured News Bay Area News Marin News Matters Santa Clara County News Matters Mendocino News Matters Stockton News Matters Equity Ripples Amplifying Voices Inspire Me CA News Open dropdown menu California Currents California Local KQED Election Results Crime, Justice, & Prison News Open dropdown menu Inside/Out Crime & Public Safety Prison News The Big Issues Open dropdown menu Living Longer & Aging in the Bay Area Housing & Homelessness Public Health Environment Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Arts & Entertainment Bay City Books Travel Bay City Sketchbook Education & Youth Voices Open dropdown menu Education Matters Youth Voices Contra Costa Youth Journalism Technology, AI & Innovation Open dropdown menu Experiments with AI Science, Nature & Technology Data Points Special Projects Open dropdown menu Musk v. Altman Audio Files Bay City Beat Listen In Marin Remember When Talkers Trailblazers About Us Open dropdown menu About Our Staff About Our Board Bay City News Internships Frequently Asked Questions Newsletters Bay City News … in the News Sponsorships and Advertising Write for Local News Matters Open Search Search for: Search Posted in Local News SF police release body cam video, additional details on shooting that injured officer by Kelcie Lee, Bay City News June 10, 2026 June 10, 2026 Share this: Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email San Francisco Police Department officers arrest Norris Reed III, 36, after fleeing on foot in San Francisco on Sunday, May 31, 2026. Officers seized two firearms from Reed at the time of his arrest. (Screengrab from SFGovTV/YouTube via Bay City News) The San Francisco Police Department on Tuesday at a virtual town hall meeting shared more details about a shooting that seriously injured an officer late last month. Acting Cmdr. Thomas Harvey said an automatic license plate reader alerted officers at 10:29 p.m. on May 31 of armed suspects associated with a robbery who were on the Bay Bridge entering San Francisco. Southern Station officers observed and started following the suspect vehicle, a 2021 gray Toyota Camry, while other units coordinated plans to stop the vehicle, Harvey said during the town hall. Contribute to Local News Matters One-time Monthly Annually One-time $100 $250 $1,000 Other Donation amount $ Monthly $20 $50 $100 Other Donation amount per month $ Annually $100 $365 $500 Other Donation amount per year $ Support our independent, nonprofit newsroom, Local News Matters, by becoming a member today. Members enable us to pay reporters, photographers and editors to serve our communities with local news that matters in the greater Bay Area. Donate Now Don't miss out on Bay Area news, delivered to your inbox twice a week. Weekly News The region’s top news headlines, delivered Mondays Arts & Entertainment The best of weekend arts and culture, delivered Thursdays Monthly Books Newsletter Our monthly Bay City Books newsletter about local literary events, new releases, author profiles and book reviews. Living Longer Our monthly newsletter on aging and longevity. Sign up At a traffic stop on Mission and First streets, officers stepped out of the police vehicle, telling the driver to turn off the car and yield, but the suspect continued to flee in the vehicle, according to officer body camera footage shared at Tuesday’s meeting. The pursuit continued through San Francisco until the vehicle collided with a concrete barrier at the intersection of Bayshore Boulevard and Jerrold Avenue at 10:46 p.m., Harvey noted. (SFGovTV/YouTube) Several officers ordered the suspects out of the vehicle before the driver, Norris Reed III, opened the car door and immediately fired at the officers as police returned fire, Harvey said. Both the passenger, who was identified as Ariunsanaa Dolgorsuren, and Ofc. Brittney Taylor were struck by gunfire and transported to a hospital. Taylor underwent emergency surgery June 1 and was in serious but stable condition as of last week, according to Sam Singer, a spokesperson for the San Francisco Police Officers Association. Reed, 36, of Oakland, fled the scene by foot down Jerrold Avenue into the Bayshore Navigation Center’s gated area, Harvey noted in the town hall. Police located Reed, arrested him and seized two guns from him shortly afterward. He has since been charged with numerous felony charges, including two counts of attempted murder. “The precise chronology of this incident is currently under investigation,” Harvey said in the town hall. “We are still in the very early stages of an administrative investigation that can take several months to complete, and our understanding of the incident may change as additional evidence is collected and analyzed.” A public comment period took place after Harvey’s presentation. The virtual town hall can be found on the SFGovTV’s YouTube channel and the unabridged raw video can be found on the SFPD’s Vimeo channel. Tagged: attempted murder , bay bridge , crime , Featured , Featured News , Officer Brittney Taylor , officer-involved shooting , police pursuit , public safety , San Francisco , San Francisco Police Department , SFPD Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Bay City News Foundation (510) 251-8100 newsroom@baycitynews.com Staff Page Terms of Use FIND MORE STORIES Local & Community News California News Politics & Civic Engagement Crime, Justice, & Prison News The Big Issues Arts & Culture Education & Youth Voices Technology, AI & Innovation Special Projects About Bay City News © 2026 Connecting audiences with quality, local news Powered by Newspack Support our work! Ensure the future of local Bay Area News by becoming a Local News Matters member today. One-time Monthly Annually One-time $10 $25 $90 Other Donation amount $ Monthly $20 $30 $50 Other Donation amount per month $ Annually $200 $365 $500 Other Donation amount per year $ Thanks for your contribution! Become a Member Sign up for our free newsletters! Receive in-depth news stories and arts & entertainment coverage from around the Bay Area in your inbox. Weekly News The region’s top news headlines, delivered Mondays Arts & Entertainment The best of weekend arts and culture, delivered Thursdays Monthly Books Newsletter Our monthly Bay City Books newsletter about local literary events, new releases, author profiles and book reviews. Living Longer Our monthly newsletter on aging and longevity. Sign up Sign in Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Create an account Sign in to an existing account Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Terms & Conditions . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Gift this article Close Link Copy link Complete your transaction Close