source: packet.pdf
sha256: 20eb0b074253054e65c64f3af0adfea0ae88084b06264a5142f6dad47c07aea9
pages: 338
ocr_pages: 11
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission 
February 14, 2023
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Margaret Williams, Chair
John Ebneter, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
Martin Wiggins
AGENDA
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS
WHICH SUSPEND CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE BROWN ACT.
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: February 14, 2023
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 845 4797 2815      Passcode: 448795
The Planning Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the Special meetings of 11.17.2022 and 1.12.2023 and the Regular meeting of
12.13.2022.
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's
jurisdiction that are not on the agenda.  Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of
15 minutes for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's
jurisdiction. The Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the
agenda, but shall refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 of the San Mateo
Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those issues raised at the
public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing. Some public

--- page 2 ---
hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
 
2.
435 E. 3rd Avenue – New Five-Story Office/Residential Mixed-Use Building (PA-2021-081)
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) and Site Development Planning
Application (SDPA) for construction of a new five-story mixed-use building with 33,529 square feet of office uses
and five residential units at 435 E. 3rd Avenue, and a Special Use Permit (SUP) for construction staging at 402 S.
Delaware Street; and adopt a Mitigated Negative Declaration to assess the environmental impacts of the project,
based on the Findings for Approval and subject to the Conditions of Approval in Attachment 1.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.For
transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Planning Division Office at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
Agenda Report 
 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
Agenda Number:  1 
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
Account Number:  
File ID: 23-7206
 
 
TO: 
Planning Commission 
FROM: 
Christina Horrisberger 
PREPARED BY: 
Community Development Department 
MEETING DATE: 
February 14, 2023  
SUBJECT: 
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval 
 
RECOMMENDATION: 
Approve the minutes of the Special meetings of 11.17.2022 and 1.12.2023 and the Regular meeting of 12.13.2022. 
 
NOTICE PROVIDED 
All meeting noticing requirements were met. 
 
ATTACHMENTS 
Att 1 - Special Meeting Minutes 11.17.2022 
Att 2 - Special Meeting Minutes 1.12.2023 
Att 3 - Regular Meeting Minutes 12.13.2022 
 
STAFF CONTACT 
Ashley Snodgrass , Administrative Assistant 
asnodgrass@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7218

--- page 4 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 11/17/22
1
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Margaret Williams, Chair
John Ebneter, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
Martin Wiggins
City of San Mateo
Special Meeting Minutes
Planning Commission
Thursday, November 17, 2022
Hybrid 7:00 PM
Special Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
CALL TO ORDER 
This meeting was held pursuant to the Governor’s Executive Orders which suspended certain requirements of the Brown 
Act. The meeting was open to in person and remote attendance.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
ROLL CALL
Present: 
Chair Margaret Williams, Vice Chair John Ebneter, Commissioners Adam Nugent, Seema Patel, and Martin 
Wiggins
Absent: 
None
PUBLIC HEARING
1.
222 E. 4th Avenue (Draeger’s Market) – New Five-Story Retail/Office/Residential Mixed-Use Building (PA-2021-071) 
Associate Planner, Wendy Lao, presented an overview of the proposed project, including the architectural and site 
design. 
 
Applicant Marcus Gilmour presented the project.
       
Commissioner Questions: 
Commissioners asked clarifying questions on the design, retail frontage, protected trees, parking, size of proposed 
grocery store, floor area ratio (FAR), mechanical space, demolition of grocery stores in the area, status of the 
Draeger's lease, findings in the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR), legal protections, Density Bonus Law, 
Density Bonus letter, Area Median Income (AMI) for rental units, prioritization of low-income housing, and 
Addendum to the General Plan Environmental Impact Report (EIR) and Downtown Area Specific Plan Initial 
Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration (IS/MND).
Public Comments: 
The following public commenters addressed the Commission with support for the project: Richard Draeger, Edward 
Dumke, Dan, Steve Sirianni, Peggy Mendelson, Raayan Mohtashemi, and Cam Palmer. Public commenters cited 
reasons for support including improvements to downtown, amenities, design, pedestrian friendly, affordable 
housing, additional housing, and mixed occupancy. The following public commenters addressed the Commission 
with concern for the project: Daniel Shefer, David Cohen, Laurie Watanuki, Laurie Hietter, Linda Simonsen, Peggy 
Mendelson, and Raayan Mohtashemi. Public commenters cited reasons for concern including design, parking, lack of 
family housing, amount of time to review the agenda packet, traffic and hazards during construction, lack of a full-
service grocery store during construction, information in the Addendum, and the jobs-housing imbalance.
Commissioner Comments:

--- page 5 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 11/17/22
2
Commissioners supported the improved design, retail frontage, and affordable housing. Commissioners expressed 
concern for the jobs-housing imbalance and parking. Most commissioners suggested one residential parking space 
per unit.
The Commission moved to recommend to City Council adoption of a Resolution to approve the Site Plan and 
Architectural Review (SPAR) and Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) for construction of a new five-story 
mixed-use building consisting of 10 below market rate (BMR) residential units, 17,658 square feet of retail use for a 
grocery store, and 104,554 square feet of office use at 222 E. 4th Avenue; approval of an Affordable Housing Plan; 
and to adopt an Addendum to the 2010 General Plan Environmental Impact Report (EIR) and 2009 Downtown Area 
Specific Plan Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration (IS/MND) under the California Environmental Quality Act 
(CEQA), based on the Findings for Approval and modified conditions of approval as recommended by staff, including 
reserving ten (10) parking spaces for residents.
Moved:
Wiggins, Seconded: Williams
Ayes:
Williams, Nugent, and Wiggins
Noes:
Ebneter and Patel
Absent: 
None
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 9:46 pm.
APPROVED BY:
___________________________________
Margaret Williams, Chair
SUBMITTED BY:
___________________________________
Ashley Snodgrass, Administrative Assistant

--- page 6 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 1/12/23
1
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Margaret Williams, Chair
John Ebneter, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
Martin Wiggins
City of San Mateo
Special Meeting Minutes
Planning Commission
Thursday, January 12, 2023
Hybrid 6:00 PM
Special Meeting Adjourned
Main Library – Oak Room
55 W. 3rd Avenue
San Mateo CA 94402
www.cityofsanmateo.org
CALL TO ORDER 
This meeting was held pursuant to the Governor’s Executive Orders which suspended certain requirements of the Brown 
Act. The meeting was open to in person and remote attendance.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
ROLL CALL
Present: 
Vice Chair John Ebneter, Commissioners Adam Nugent and Seema Patel
Absent: 
Chair Margaret Williams, Commissioner Martin Wiggins
PUBLIC HEARING
1.
General Plan Amendment to Adopt the City of San Mateo's Housing Element for 2023-2031 
Deputy Director, Zachary Dahl, Housing and Neighborhood Services Manager, Eloiza Murillo-Garcia, and Housing 
Consultant, Diana Elrod, presented an overview of the Housing Element.
       
Commissioner Questions: 
Commissioners asked clarifying questions on California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) 
and self-certification, HCD guidance, HCD review letter, data on units approved and not completed during the 5th 
Cycle Housing Element, overview of the 6th Cycle Housing Element, completion of permitted and rented Accessory 
Dwelling Units (ADU), pipeline housing projects, status of the Concar Passage project, and programs that increase 
housing production. Commissioners also asked clarifying questions on the Builder's Remedy, Measure Y, legal 
ramifications of the Housing Element, statutory compliance, substantial evidence, litigation, Appendix E, Appendix B, 
effects of land and construction costs, the reclassification of housing from a Special Use to a Permitted Use, grants 
for state funding, funding and sites for affordable housing units, Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing (AFFH) 
requirements, feasibility of properties on the sites inventory, and realistic capacity estimates and methodology.
Public Comments: 
Kenneth Do addressed the Commission with support for the Housing Element because there is housing for all 
income levels. The following public commenters addressed the Commission with concern about the Housing 
Element: Karyl Eldridge, Jennifer Martinez, Mitch Speigle, Jordan Grimes, Ali Sapirman, Kenneth Do, CJ Higley, Louise 
Duncalf, and Moises Villeda. Public commenters cited reasons for concern included the need to strengthen tenant 
protections, need for more housing funding, lack of compliance with Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing (AFFH) 
requirements, better address zoning constraints, long-term leases impacting redevelopment feasibility, substantial 
compliance with state law, sites inventory deficiencies, location of housing developments, and lack of labor 
standards.
Commissioner Comments:

--- page 7 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 1/12/23
2
Commissioners expressed concern for specific sites on the site inventory and their realistic capacity, need for more 
aggressive polices and programs, housing production estimates not realistic, lack of rezoning to increase housing 
opportunities, lack of compliance with AFFH requirements, need to plan for more affordable housing in high 
opportunity areas, and the revised Housing Element does not fully address HCD’s comments or meet all statutory 
requirements. Commissioners suggested adding policies to support living wages and labor standards and improve 
tenant displacement protections, include specific metrics and milestones in the programs, and increase incentives 
for housing development.
The Commission moved to recommend that the City Council decline to adopt the proposed 2023-2031 Housing 
Element, based on the following findings:
a.
The Sites Inventory does not include substantial evidence to demonstrate realistic capacity and housing 
development feasibility for all of the identified opportunity sites;
b.
The Fair Housing Plan does not fully address all Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing (AFFH) requirements;
c.
The Housing Element does not adequately address the City’s constraints to housing production necessary to 
meet its RHNA; and
d.
The goals, policies and programs have not been sufficiently updated to address HCD comments.
Moved:
Nugent, Seconded: Patel
Ayes:
None
Noes:
Ebneter, Nugent, and Patel
Absent: 
Williams and Wiggins
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 9:55 pm.
APPROVED BY:
___________________________________
John Ebneter, Vice Chair
SUBMITTED BY:
___________________________________
Ashley Snodgrass, Administrative Assistant

--- page 8 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 12/13/22
1
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Margaret Williams, Chair
John Ebneter, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
Martin Wiggins
City of San Mateo
Regular Meeting Minutes
Planning Commission
Tuesday, December 13, 2022
Hybrid 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
CALL TO ORDER 
This meeting was held pursuant to the Governor’s Executive Orders which suspended certain requirements of the Brown 
Act. The meeting was open to in person and remote attendance.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
ROLL CALL
Present: 
Chair Margaret Williams, Vice Chair John Ebneter, Commissioners Adam Nugent and Seema Patel
Absent: 
Commissioner Martin Wiggins
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the Special meeting of 11.08.2022 and the Regular meeting of 11.08.2022.
Moved:
Patel, Seconded: Ebneter
Ayes:
Williams, Ebneter, Nugent, Patel
Noes:
None
Absent: 
Wiggins
PUBLIC COMMENT: 
None.
STUDY SESSION
2.
Pre-Application Review for a Proposed Six-Story Office/Residential Mixed-Use Building at 500 E. 4th Ave. (Block 20)
Senior Planner, Rendell Bustos, presented an overview of the architectural and site design of the proposed project. 
 
Applicant Mike Field presented the project.
       
Commissioner Questions: 
Commissioners asked clarifying questions on Housing Accountability Act (HAA), Density Bonus Law, Bicycle Master 
Plan, Pedestrian Master Plan, residential parking, shared parking, open space requirements, street trees, sidewalk 
design, setback requirements, ramp slope, concession requests, density bonus waiver requests 3 and 4, City Council 
approval, Environmental Impact Report (EIR), sustainability features, solar capabilities, grey water usage, unionized 
labor, and the relocation of the Japanese American Community Center.
Public Comments: 
Naomi Ture, Laurie Watanuki, and Olya addressed the Commission with support for the project, citing reasons of 
design, addition of bicycle lanes, and support for the Japanese Community Center. Naomi Ture, Laurie Watanuki,

--- page 9 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 12/13/22
2
Olya, George, and Linda Simonsen addressed the Commission with concern for the project, citing reasons of height, 
increased traffic, massing, parking, setbacks, lack of street trees, and lack of green space. Kenneth Do, Laurie 
Watanuki, and George addressed the Commission with suggestions, such as adding labor standards, including more 
street trees, and having the ground floor either be for retail or community use.
Commissioner Comments: 
Commissioners suggested putting in retail on the ground floor of the site and changing the building color to either 
ivory or cream. Commissioners also suggested adding more trees, a curbside drop-off area, sidewalk improvements, 
and more natural light in the residential units. Commissioners discussed the jobs-housing imbalance. Commissioners 
expressed concern for the building massing.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Planning Manager, Manira Sandhir, provided updates on items for future Planning Commission meetings and asked 
Commissioners for their interest in attending the Planning Commissioners Academy. There were no reports from Chair, 
Commissioners, or City Attorney.
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 9:27 pm.
APPROVED BY:
___________________________________
Margaret Williams, Chair
SUBMITTED BY:
___________________________________
Ashley Snodgrass, Administrative Assistant

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 22-6960
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
February 14, 2023 
SUBJECT:
435 E. 3rd Avenue – New Five-Story Office/Residential Mixed-Use Building (PA-2021-081)
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) and Site Development Planning Application 
(SDPA) for construction of a new five-story mixed-use building with 33,529 square feet of office uses and five residential 
units at 435 E. 3rd Avenue, and a Special Use Permit (SUP) for construction staging at 402 S. Delaware Street; and adopt a 
Mitigated Negative Declaration to assess the environmental impacts of the project, based on the Findings for Approval and 
subject to the Conditions of Approval in Attachment 1.
BACKGROUND:
Windy Hill Property Ventures (applicant) has submitted a Planning Application (PA-2021-081) to demolish an 
approximately 2,700 square-foot auto repair establishment at 435 E. 3rd Avenue to construct a new five-story mixed-use 
building consisting of 33,529 square-feet of office uses and five residential units, one of which would be a below market 
rate (BMR) unit affordable at the low-Income level. The Planning Commission last reviewed this project at a study session 
on November 23, 2021. The Commission’s discussion focused on the building design and request to satisfy all off-street 
parking requirements through payment of in-lieu fees as an incentive through State Density Bonus Law. The Commission 
was in favor of the building design but recommended the applicant make certain design revisions to improve the side 
elevations and corner articulation. The Commission expressed concern and questions about the lack of on-site parking but 
acknowledged the site’s constraints in adding parking. 
Since the study session, the applicant has refined the building design based on Commission input mainly to include 
additional brick detailing along the building’s side elevations. As a result of Assembly Bill 2097, effective January 1, 2023, 
which eliminates parking requirements for projects within one-half mile of public transit, the applicant is no longer 
required to pay in-lieu fees for required parking nor can the City impose minimum parking requirements unless the City 
makes findings that demonstrate a substantially negative impact on the City’s ability to meet its share of regional housing 
need for Very Low- and Low-Income households, or on existing residential or commercial parking within one-half mile of 
the project.
Project Site
The project site is located at 435 E. 3rd Avenue on the northwest corner of E. 3rd Avenue and S. Claremont Street. The site is 
10,980 square feet (0.25 acre) in size with a General Plan Land Use Designation of Downtown Retail Core Support and a 
zoning designation of CBD/S (Central Business District Support). An auto-repair establishment, which was originally 
constructed in 1956 currently occupies the project site. The City’s historic review consultant prepared a historic evaluation 
of the existing structures as they are over 50 years old and determined that none qualified as historic resources. Adjacent 
uses include residential, retail, office, and restaurant uses ranging from one-story to four stories for more recent

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
developments. The adjacent building west of the project site (273 S. Railroad Street) qualifies as a historic resource per the 
City’s 1989 Historic Building Survey. The Block 21 Mixed-Use Project, which was approved by the City Council in June of 
2022, is located on the opposite corner of the subject site. The San Mateo Downtown Caltrain station is located less than 
one-quarter of a mile northwest of the project site. A location map showing the project in its vicinity is included as 
Attachment 2.
Project Description
The proposed five-story mixed-use building has a total floor area of 39,893 square feet, with 33,529 square feet of office 
uses on the first through fourth floors and five residential units on the fifth floor. The unit mix consists of one studio and 
four one-bedroom units, all of which would be for-rent. Of the five units, the applicant proposes to designate 20 percent 
(one unit) as affordable (below market rate) at the low-income category in order to qualify for State Density Bonus waivers 
and concessions. Given the unit mix proportions, the affordable unit would be a one-bedroom unit to comply with City’s 
Below Market Rate Program.
The overall architectural style has both traditional and contemporary elements in its blend of materials. The project 
provides new landscaping along both frontages including shrubs and street trees. Open space areas are located within 
building step-backs along E. 3rd Avenue for office uses and in private fifth-level patios devoted to residential uses. The 
project does not provide any off-street parking, which the applicant initially requested through a State Density Bonus law 
incentive. However, the applicant has removed the incentive request related to parking in light of Assembly Bill (AB) 2097 
but still requests an incentive to allow the project to exceed the 3.0 maximum floor area ratio by 0.61. 
A detailed discussion of the building design and AB 2097 are discussed further in the report. Project plans showing the 
proposed site plan, floor plans, and elevations are included in Attachment 3.
Applicable Code and Policy Review
General Plan and Zoning Code
The General Plan Land Use Map designates the project site as Downtown Retail Core Support, which is meant to provide 
uses at intensities that complement both the downtown core and the adjacent residential neighborhoods. A list of 
applicable General Plan policies and a discussion of the project’s conformance is included in Attachment 1. The project is 
consistent with Land Use policy LU 3.1 in that, for example, the project combines two compatible uses (office and 
residential), which complement the existing commercial uses in the vicinity and greater downtown. This furthers the 
downtown as the social, cultural, and economic center of the City, as encouraged in the General Plan. Lastly, Land Use 
policy LU 2.4 encourages ground-level commercial uses to promote pedestrian activity and a diversity of services and 
activities. While the project does not provide ground floor retail or similar commercial uses, the project would increase the 
daytime population that would patronize existing downtown businesses and adjacent retail uses.
Consistent with its land use designation, the project site is zoned CBD/S (Central Business District Support), which permits 
both residential and commercial uses. The CBD/S zone is also subject to development standards in Municipal Code Chapter 
27.39, including floor area ratio, residential density, setbacks, and open space. A project data table listing the applicable 
Zoning Code standards and the project’s conformance to them is included in Attachment 4. As noted in the project data 
table, the project is within the maximum building height of 55-feet and is within the maximum allowable density of 50 
units per acre. The Zoning Code’s maximum density thus yields the project site a maximum of 13 units but does not 
establish a minimum density requirement. The applicant proposes five residential units, which are within the maximum 
allowable base density. Lastly, the Zoning Code provides a maximum floor area ratio of 3.0, which the project proposes to 
increase by 0.61 for a total floor area ratio of 3.61 through State Density Bonus law.
Downtown Area Plan
The project is subject to the Downtown Area Plan, which establishes goals and policies to implement the overall vision of 
the downtown. Applicable goals that pertain to the project include:
•
Enhance Downtown’s Role as the City Center and Maintain Its Unique Sense of Place
•
Enhance the Vitality and Activity of Downtown by Incorporating an Overall Good Mix and Diversity of Uses

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
Enhance the Downtown’s Pedestrian Environment and Enhance the Safety and Attractiveness of Downtown
The project site is located within the Central Claremont sub-area in the Downtown Plan. Recommended future conditions 
include provision of ground floor retail and other uses that promote pedestrian activity along E. 3rd Avenue and E. 4th 
Avenue. In addition, the Downtown Plan encourages the use of street trees, streetlights, and pavement consistent with 
the downtown core to unify areas east of the railroad tracks. 
In conformance with the Downtown Area Plan, the project combines office and residential uses that would support 
existing commercial uses in the greater downtown. While the project does not propose retail uses, the building design 
incorporates full-height windows and storefront systems for most of the ground floor, which encourages pedestrian 
activity and visibility into ground-floor activity. Lastly, the project proposes new street trees, streetlights, and sidewalk 
paving consistent with both the downtown core and recently constructed projects in the same vicinity. A full list of 
applicable Downtown Area Plan policies and a discussion of the project’s conformance is included in Attachment 1.
Assembly Bill 2097
As discussed previously, the project initially requested an incentive through State Density Bonus law to pay Central Parking 
and Improvement District (CPID) in-lieu fees for all required parking (17 spaces) instead of physically constructing any off-
street parking. Based on the total number of required parking spaces, the applicant would have been required to pay 
approximately $980,898 based on the City’s current comprehensive fee schedule.
AB 2097, however, became effective on January 1, 2023, which eliminates parking requirements for both residential and 
commercial projects within one-half mile of a major public transit stop. As noted previously, the subject project site is less 
than one-quarter of a mile from the Downtown Caltrain Station, which is considered a “major public transit stop” as 
defined in Section 21155 of the Public Resources Code. AB 2097 thus prohibits the City from imposing parking 
requirements, including CPID in-lieu fee payment, unless the City makes findings that not imposing or enforcing minimum 
automobile parking requirements on the development would have a substantially negative impact, supported by a 
preponderance of the evidence in the record, on the public agency’s ability to meet its share of specified housing needs or 
existing residential or commercial parking within one-half mile of the project. The law, however, disallows the City from 
making this finding for certain projects, including ones that dedicate a minimum of 20% of the total housing units as 
affordable to the Low-Income category, as this project does. In addition, because the California Building Code mandates 
accessible spaces and electric vehicle (EV) spaces based on the number of parking spaces physically provided (not based on 
the number of required spaces), the law disallows the City from requiring construction of or payment of an in-lieu fee for 
accessible or EV spaces.
The applicant submitted a letter to apply AB 2097 to this project, which is included as Attachment 5. The applicant also 
provided revised application materials, primarily a revised density bonus request letter and written project description, to 
remove the original incentive request to pay CPID in-lieu fees for all the previously required parking (prior to AB 2097’s 
effective date).
Site Plan and Architectural Review
The project requires a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) approval for construction of a new mixed-use building in 
accordance with Municipal Code Sections 27.08.030. These findings are discussed in detail within Attachment 1. In 
summary, the project proposes a mixed-use building that complements the existing architectural character of the 
neighborhood through provision of traditional building elements and materials. These materials include red brick veneer, 
grey-painted stucco, and neutral-colored wood cladding. Brick veneer is the dominant exterior material at the first through 
third levels and is broken up through contemporary glazing and contrasting wood cladding in the building’s recesses. The 
interior-facing building facades also incorporate brick veneer that provide visual interest to facades that would otherwise 
appear blank. The project incorporates stepbacks at the fourth and fifth levels which reduce the apparent massing and also 
provide areas for usable open space. Lastly, the project removes all existing trees but replaces them with new five new 
street trees along frontages and provides planted containers to activate ground level open spaces. In staff’s evaluation of 
the project, staff recommends findings to approve the SPAR, which are discussed in greater detail in Attachment 1.

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Site Development Planning Application
Municipal Code Section 23.40 requires a Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) approval for removal of major 
vegetation in conjunction with the redevelopment of a parcel. The Municipal Code defines “major vegetation” as live 
vegetation consisting of tree growth with a trunk diameter of six (6) inches or greater measured at 54 inches above natural 
grade. The Municipal Code also defines a protected tree as any heritage tree or street tree. Heritage trees include any oak 
tree with a minimum diameter of 10 inches measured at 54 inches above natural grade as well as any other species with a 
diameter of 15 inches measured at 54 inches above natural grade.
The project proposes removal of a total of 31 trees, four of which qualify as protected trees. Six of the trees proposed for 
removal are also located on the neighboring 216 S. Claremont Street site immediately north of the project site. A condition 
of approval has been added requiring the adjacent property owner to provide an authorization letter and to sign the 
required Site Development Permit to authorize removal. 
The equivalent landscape unit (LU) value of the removed trees would be replaced as conditioned via planting of new trees, 
payment of an in-lieu fee, or a combination of both in accordance with Municipal Code Section 27.71. Staff’s evaluation of 
the proposed project is that the SDPA findings for approval can be made in that the project proposes planting of five new 
street trees along both frontages and will pay an in-lieu fee toward the City’s Tree Planting Fund for any deficit in the 
existing LU value. These findings are discussed in greater detail within Attachment 1.
Special Use Permit for Construction Staging
For the duration of the project’s construction, the applicant proposes construction staging off-site at a nearby, vacant lot 
at 402 S. Delaware Street, which would consist of a temporary construction trailer, materials storage, and construction 
worker parking. The proposed use at this lot requires a Special Use Permit (SUP) given that off-site construction staging is 
not designated as a permitted or a special use in the CBD/S zoning district. Municipal Code Chapter 27.74 authorizes the 
Planning Commission to grant a SUP for non-designated uses that are so similar to any specifically allowed use in the 
subject zoning district that are virtually identical in terms of impact and land use requirements.
The CBD/S zone permits “temporary buildings for construction purposes for a period not to exceed the duration of such 
construction” in Municipal Code Section 27.38.020(d). The use of this lot as construction staging to serve a nearby active 
construction project would be similar in operation and impact to this permitted use. In addition, the City Council approved 
a SUP for this site related to a different construction project (Block 21). The applicant would still be subject to conditions of 
approval related to noise control, dust control, and material hauling. As such, staff’s evaluation of the proposal for 
construction staging at 402 S. Delaware Street is that the SUP findings for approval can be made, which are discussed in 
greater detail within Attachment 1.
Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan
The Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan contains recommendations to improve the pedestrian realm throughout the City. 
Appendix A of the Pedestrian Master Plan provides guidance for sidewalk designs and types specific to a project’s land use 
and street parking configuration. The applicable sidewalk standard along both frontages is A.10 Mixed Use Type B Street 
Parking. This standard recommends an overall sidewalk width ranging from 16 feet to 26 feet. 
The project proposes an overall sidewalk width ranging from 12’-0” to 14’-7” along E. 3rd Avenue, and 13’-11” to 16’-1” 
along S. Claremont Street. It should be noted, however, that the Zoning Code requires that new developments in this 
zoning district be built to the property line unless building setbacks are for the provision of open space or landscaping. 
Staff’s evaluation of the plans conclude that the project is in substantial conformance with the Pedestrian Master Plan in 
that the project meets the sidewalk guidelines along one out of the two frontages and is compliant with the Zoning Code in 
both frontages. In addition, the project provides improvements in the pedestrian realm, including benches, planted 
containers, street trees, and pedestrian scale lighting. The project also results in wider sidewalk widths when compared to 
existing conditions. Requiring modifications to the site plan on the E. 3rd Avenue frontage to achieve compliance with the 
Pedestrian Master Plan would be at the discretion of the Planning Commission.

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Bicycle Master Plan
The City’s Bicycle Master Plan provides policies and recommendations to implement citywide infrastructure improvements 
to support bicycle use. The Bicycle Master Plan also lays out a proposed bicycle network of various bicycle lanes, paths and 
routes. Specific to the subject project site, the Bicycle Master Plan calls for a separated bicycle lane (Class IV) along the 
project’s E. 3rd Avenue frontage and a bicycle boulevard (Class III) along the project’s S. Claremont Street frontage.
In conformance with the Bicycle Master Plan, the project will implement the Class III bicycle boulevard along its S. 
Claremont Street frontage, which consists of pavement markings that increase motorists’ awareness of bicyclists and aid 
bicyclists with navigation. It should be noted that the applicant is not required to physically construct or design the bike 
facilities along its E. 3rd Avenue frontage outlined the Bicycle Master Plan as part of this project. Lastly, the project provides 
nine long-term bicycle parking for office uses within a dedicated room in the first floor of the building and for residential 
uses on fifth floor. As required by the City’s Zoning Code, a total of four short-term bicycle parking spaces are provided 
through bike racks.
Affordable Housing
State Density Bonus Law
The project utilizes the provisions of State Density Bonus Law found in Government Code Section 65915. To comply with 
State Density Bonus Law and to implement the Housing Element of the City’s General Plan, the City must allow for 
provision of increased residential density, reduced parking standards, as well as “incentives” and “waivers” or reductions 
from development standards for residential projects that provide senior housing units, childcare facilities, or set aside a 
certain percentage of units as affordable to Very Low, Low, or Moderate-Income households.
The project site’s zoning designation of CBD/S permits a maximum base density of 50 units per acre, which yields the 
project site a base density of 13 units. As indicated previously, the project provides a total of five residential units which 
are within the maximum base density and is the minimum required in order to qualify for State Density Bonus law. The 
applicant proposes to devote 20 percent of the five units (one unit) as affordable at the Low-Income level (80% Area 
Median Income). For reference, the 2022 Area Median Income (AMI) in San Mateo County for an individual is $116,200 
and a family of four is $166,000.  This would entitle the project to a density bonus of up to 35 percent, resulting in a total 
maximum density of up to 67.5 units per acre, or 18 units. The provision of five residential units is thus within the 
maximum allowable density including the maximum density bonus. 
Incentive Requests
State Density Bonus Law also permits the applicant to request up to two incentives as well as an unlimited number of 
waivers from development standards. The applicant’s density bonus request letter detailing the project’s incentive and 
waiver requests is included as Attachment 6. The applicant has not requested waivers but has requested one incentive to 
increase the maximum allowable floor area ratio (FAR) from 3.0 to 3.61. The applicant removed the incentive request to 
pay in-lieu fees for all required parking in light of AB 2097.
In accordance with Government Code Section 65915(d)(1), the City shall grant the incentive request unless findings can be 
made that the incentive 1) would not result in identifiable and actual cost reductions to provide the affordable housing 
units, 2) would have a specific adverse impact upon public health and safety, or 3) would be contrary to state or federal 
law. Staff has evaluated this incentive request and has not found any evidence to support any of these findings to deny the 
incentive. The increased FAR results in a cost savings that is less than the applicant’s estimated cost of constructing the 
one affordable residential unit, which is estimated to be higher than that of a larger mixed-use project given that costs that 
service the residential uses (including the lobby and dedicated elevator) are spread among a smaller number of units.
San Mateo Inclusionary Requirements and Commercial Linkage Fee
The City’s Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program is applicable to development projects that include five or more 
residential units. The Inclusionary Program also requires rental projects of 11 or more units to provide a minimum of 15 
percent of the proposed units to be devoted to the Low-Income category. For projects consisting of 5-10 units, the 
applicant can satisfy the City’s Inclusionary Program requirements through payment of a fractional fee in lieu of physical

--- page 15 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
constructing the affordable unit. However, the applicant proposes to construct the one affordable unit (20 percent of the 
proposed five units) as affordable at the Low-Income level, which complies with the City’s Inclusionary Program 
requirements. The affordable unit will also be required to:
•
Have an exterior design that is compatible with, and substantially the same as, the market rate units;
•
Have similar access from the exterior as market rate units;
•
Contain proportionately the same number of bedrooms as market rate units;
•
Be comparable in size to similar market rate units; and,
•
Have access to all on-site amenities.
The project is also subject to an Affordable Housing Commercial Linkage Fee. This fee applies to non-residential 
construction, including office uses, of over 5,000 square feet to offset the commercial uses’ impact to housing. The 
Commercial Linkage Fee for this project, which will be assessed and collected at the time of building permit issuance, is 
estimated to be approximately $1.02 million based on the current Comprehensive Fee Schedule.
Design Review
The Planning Commission provided design input on the pre application building design on November 23, 2021, which is 
summarized in the Planning Commission’s meeting minutes included as Attachment 7. The Commission expressed general 
support for the pre application design but recommended that brick veneer be incorporated to the facades along the site’s 
interior lot lines. Procedurally, projects subject to Planning Commission and/or City Council approval are reviewed by a 
third-party design review consultant. However, given the general support and clear direction by the Planning Commission, 
staff did not engage a design review consultant. Instead, design review was conducted at the staff-level in accordance with 
the Planning Commissions comments from the Study Session and on the General Plan’s Urban Design Element. Staff’s 
design review comments generally included the following:
•
Incorporate additional brick veneer based on Planning Commission input;
•
Improve the design of the building’s corner;
•
Refine the articulation of the residential entry;
•
Increase the contrast of the brick veneer and wood cladding
The final building design is substantially the same in its massing and its articulation of the building corner. The applicant, 
however, incorporated the Planning Commission’s feedback by continuing the brick veneer treatment along the building’s 
interior lot lines which reduces the blank appearance of these interior facades. The applicant also increased the contrast in 
color between the brick veneer and grey-toned wood cladding that expresses the recesses at the office levels. Lastly, the 
applicant refined the residential entry along S. Claremont Street through additional wood cladding and a window mullion 
design differentiated from the office entry along E. 3rd Avenue.
Transportation Analysis
Vehicle Miles Traveled Impact Analysis
The City’s transportation consultant, Fehr & Peers, prepared a Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA), included as 
Attachment 8, to analyze the project’s transportation impacts in accordance with the standards of the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and the City’s General Plan. Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) is the metric established by 
CEQA for determining the significance of transportation impacts. 
Based on the City’s adopted TIA Guidelines, the TIA concludes that the project will not cause a significant VMT impact as it 
meets screening criteria to exempt the project from further VMT analysis. Specifically, the project is within a one-half mile 
of a high-quality transit stop, has a floor area ratio greater than 0.75, constructs no on-site parking (and thus, less than the 
minimum parking required by the City), and does not result in the reduction of affordable residential units. 
Level of Service Impact Analysis
In addition to analyzing the project’s VMT impact, Fehr & Peers conducted a Level of Service (LOS) analysis at various

--- page 16 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
study-intersections. In accordance with the City’s General Plan criteria, the City shall maintain a LOS no worse than mid 
LOS D all signalized intersections within the City, and no worse than LOS E for all unsignalized intersections. The three 
study intersections selected for analysis were:
1.
E. 2nd Avenue and S. Claremont Street
2.
E. 3rd Avenue and S. Claremont street
3.
E. 3rd Avenue and S. Railroad Avenue 
Traffic conditions at these study intersections were evaluated for the weekday AM and PM peak hours (when demands on 
the roadway are greatest) and were evaluated in three scenarios: 
1.
Existing Conditions: Existing traffic volumes
2.
Opening Year Conditions: Existing traffic volumes plus traffic generated by nearby approved projects that are not 
yet completed or occupied
3.
Opening Year Plus Project Conditions: Opening year traffic volumes (cumulative) plus traffic generated by the 
project
The projects incorporated in the Opening Year Conditions included projects that were approved at the time the subject 
project’s analysis was prepared, which are:
1.
405 E. 4th Ave. Mixed-Use Project
2.
406 E. 3rd Ave. Mixed-Use Project 
3.
303 Baldwin Ave. Mixed-Use Project (Formerly Trag’s Market) 
4.
Kiku Crossing Project (480 E. 4th Ave.)
More recently approved projects, including the Block 21 Mixed-Use Project and the 222 E. 4th Ave. Mixed-Use Project 
(currently Draeger’s) were not included in the Opening Year Conditions as these projects were not approved at the time 
the analysis for this subject project was prepared. 
Overall, the TIA estimates that the project would generate a total of 309 net-new average daily vehicle trips, 49 net-new 
vehicle trips in the AM peak hour, and 51 net-new vehicle trips in the PM peak hour. All study intersections listed above 
also operate acceptably at LOS B or better in Existing and Opening Year Conditions inclusive of the nearby projects listed 
above. The project is estimated to increase delay at these intersections by up to one second, supporting the conclusion 
that the project would not cause traffic operational impacts. Given the increase in average daily trips, however, the project 
is required to implement a trip reduction measures, which are discussed in the Transportation Demand Management Plan 
section below.
While preparing the project’s transportation analysis, staff and Fehr & Peers determined that an assessment for 
Cumulative Conditions (reflecting estimated, future traffic volumes in the year 2040) was determined unnecessary given 
the lack of on-site parking, small size of the project, and negligible changes to traffic conditions in the Opening Year Plus 
Project Conditions. The City’s TIA Guidelines provide that the analysis must include a LOS analysis of intersections that fall 
into at least one of the following categories:
1.
Project driveways
2.
Intersections at either end of the block on which the project is located, or up to 500 feet from the primary project 
driveways, whichever is farther
3.
Intersection of collector or higher classified streets where the project adds 100 or more peak hour trips
Because the project does not include on-site parking, the site would not include any project driveways. For residents and 
employees that drive, their trips would be distributed throughout the roadway network more than for a project with on-
site parking. In addition, the analysis assumes that the project’s vehicle trips would go to either the City’s Main Street 
Garage or the upcoming Fifth Avenue Garage. This results in a reduced number of project vehicle trips that go through the

--- page 17 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
project’s three study intersections listed above. Lastly, the project would not generate 100 or more peak hour trips at any 
individual collector or arterial intersections since the project would generate a total of 100 peak hour trips that would be 
dispersed among various intersections and not at an individual intersection.
Transportation Demand Management Plan
The project will implement a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan, which was prepared by the City’s TDM 
Consultant, Steer, which is included as Attachment 9. While the project does not cause a VMT impact in accordance with 
CEQA, the City/County Association of Governments (C/CAG) of San Mateo County requires projects that generate more 
than 100 average daily trips to implement trip reduction measures. Based on C/CAG’s guidelines, this project is required to 
reach a minimum 25% trip reduction through TDM measures.
Once implemented, the TDM Plan is estimated to result in an overall trip reduction of 26.5%. The core TDM measures the 
applicant proposes to integrate into the project include various measures to encourage the use of sustainable forms of 
transportation. These measures include:
•
On-site TDM Coordinator;
•
Informational packets for new hires and new residents;
•
Bicycle parking and support facilities, such as showers and lockers; and,
•
Sustainable transportation incentive, which are monthly $100 vouchers provided to tenants (both employees and 
residents) who cycle, walk, and/or carpool.
In addition to the project’s core TDM measures, the TDM Plan outlines additional, optional measures that would further 
support trip reductions. These measures include multimodal wayfinding, subsidized transit passes, and bike workshops 
that, if implemented altogether and with core measures, would result in a trip reduction of 40.8%.
FISCAL IMPACT:
As a new mixed-use project, the applicant would be subject to payment of the following impact fees and in-lieu fees, which 
are assessed and collected prior to the issuance of building permits or prior to occupancy: 
•
Commercial Linkage Fee of approximately $1,020,000, assessed on new office floor area in excess of 5,000 square-
feet to offset the impact of development projects on the need for affordable housing.
•
Child Care Development Fee of $3,182.51 per residential unit and $0.63 per square-foot of office uses, to offset 
the impact on the need for future childcare space needs by new development.
•
Park Impact Fee of $20,476 per residential unit, to offset the increased demands on park and recreation facilities 
serving new developments.
•
Sanitary Sewer Connection Charge, for net increase of wastewater generation based on new dwelling units and 
increase in plumbing fixtures for commercial uses.
•
Transportation Improvement Fee, to offset the cost of transportation improvements to serve new development 
based on each dwelling unit and per 1,000 square-feet of office floor area. 
•
Wastewater Treatment Plant Phase II Impact Fee, for net increase of wastewater generation based on net increase 
of average daily flow for all uses.
•
School Impact Fees, to offset the increased demands on school facilities caused by new development based on 
new residential and commercial floor area.
•
Landscape Unit In-Lieu Fee, assessed for each Landscape Unit value not physically planted on-site or along street 
frontages.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
Public comments submitted to staff during the formal planning application review are included in Attachment 10. Public 
comments generally pertained to the lack of parking, and recommendation for larger units. Public comments after 
publication of this report will be forwarded to the Planning Commission for review and consideration at the public hearing 
and posted to this item on the City’s Agendas & Minutes Public Meeting Portal as “Post Packet Public Comments.”

--- page 18 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with CEQA, an Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration (IS/MND) has been prepared to assess the 
project’s environmental impact. The IS/MND concludes that this project would not have significant effects to the 
environment with implementation of appropriate Mitigation Measures. Required Mitigation Measures include heightened 
monitoring of construction activities for biological resources, hazardous materials, and noise. In addition, because the 
project site is listed as a Closed Leaking Underground Storage Tank (LUST) Case on the Cortese List, project construction 
must adhere to Mitigation Measures that reduce the risk of contaminated soil and soil vapor exposure to the environment. 
Given the project’s proximity to the historic resource at 273 S. Railroad Street, project construction must adhere to 
Mitigation Measures that limit and document vibration impacts. The project’s Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting 
Program (MMRP) is included as Exhibit B in Attachment 1, which is in place to ensure compliance with the Mitigation 
Measures analyzed and required by the IS/MND.
In compliance with AB 52, which requires the City provide written notification to Native American tribes that are 
traditionally and culturally affiliated with the geographic area, staff received correspondence from a representative of the 
Indian Canyon Mutsun Band of Costanoan People recommending the presence of a Native American Monitor and 
Archaeologist during all ground-disturbing activities. The City provided written response via email and certified mailing on 
a total of three occasions and did not receive a response for consultation on the impact analysis and mitigation measures 
in compliance with AB 52. Mitigation Measures nonetheless have been incorporated into the IS/MND and conditions of 
approval that require the presence of a Native American Monitor and Archaeologist during all ground-disturbing activities.
Distribution of the IS/MND consisted of a paper copy available at the City’s Permit Center and at the Main Library, a paper 
copy to the Planning Commission, and online posting at the City’s website at https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4528/435-
E-3rd-Ave. The 20-day public review period of the IS/MND began on October 7, 2022 and concluded on October 27, 2022. 
Staff received three public comment letters pertaining to the IS/MND. Staff prepared a memo responding to the three 
public comment letters that was made available online on February 2, 2023, which is included as Attachment 11. No 
comment, however, required further analysis or resulted in the identification of new or worse impacts. Since completion 
of the public review period and responding to public comments, staff prepared a text-edit to the IS/MND to remove 
references to in-lieu fee payment for required parking in light of the project’s availing of AB 2097. The version of the 
IS/MND inclusive of the text-edit was posted online at https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4528/435-E-3rd-Ave on February 
2, 2023.
NOTICE PROVIDED:
In accordance with Government Code Section 65090, notice of this Public Hearing was published in the San Mateo Daily 
Journal newspaper more than ten days in advance of this Planning Commission meeting. In accordance with Government 
Code Section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this Public Hearing was noticed to the following 
parties more than ten days in advance of this Planning Commission meeting:
•
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site.
•
The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects; 
•
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and,
•
The interested parties list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list.
ATTACHMENTS:
Att 1 – Draft Resolution with Findings 
A.
Conditions of Approval
B.
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program
Att 2 – Location Map
Att 3 – Project Plans
Att 4 – Project Data Table

--- page 19 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Att 5 – Applicant AB 2097 Letter
Att 6 – Density Bonus Request Letter
Att 7 – Planning Commission Meeting Minutes – November 23, 2021
Att 8 – Transportation Impact Analysis
Att 9 – Transportation Demand Management Plan
Att 10 – Public Comments
Att 11 – Response to Public Comments Memo – February 2, 2023
STAFF CONTACT
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner
rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7211

--- page 20 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023) 
 
RESOLUTION APPROVING SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW AND SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANNING 
APPLICATION FOR CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW MIXED‐USE BUILDING CONSISTING OF 33,529 SQUARE‐FEET OF 
OFFICE USES AND FIVE RESIDENTIAL UNITS LOCATED AT 435 E. 3RD AVENUE; SPECIAL USE PERMIT FOR OFF‐
SITE CONSTRUCTION STAGING FOR A PROPERTY LOCATED AT 402 S. DELAWARE STREET; AND ADOPTING THE 
INITIAL STUDY/MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION  
(PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., MIXED‐USE PROJECT) 
 
WHEREAS, Michael Field of Windy Hill Property Ventures (herein referred to as the “Applicant”) submitted 
a planning application PA‐2021‐081 with the Planning Division for a Site Plan and Architectural Review and Site 
Development Planning Application for construction of a new mixed‐use building consisting of 33,529 square‐feet 
of  office  uses  and  five  residential  units  located  at  435  E.  3rd  Avenue;  and  a  Special  use  permit  for  off‐site 
construction staging for a property located at 402 S. Delaware street (collectively referred to as “Project”) in the 
City of San Mateo (“City”); and 
 
WHEREAS, the proposed Project is located within the Downtown Area Plan study area; and  
 
WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Charter and Municipal Code Section 23.40.040 authorizes the Planning 
Commission to take final action on Site Plan and Architectural Review for  projects of six or more dwelling units 
and over 10,000 square feet of non‐residential development; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, approval of the applicant’s proposal is considered a “Project” for purposes of the California 
Environmental Quality Act, Pub. Resources Code §21000, et seq. (“CEQA”); and 
 
WHEREAS, the City circulated an Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration to assess environmental 
impacts in accordance with CEQA Guideline 15070 from October 7, 2022 to October 27, 2022; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City finds the Project consistent with the applicable policies of the General Plan and other 
applicable policies,  
 
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing for the Project on February 14, 2023, duly 
noticed, at which all public comments were considered; 
 
 NOW,  THEREFORE  BE  IT  RESOLVED,  BY  THE  PLANNING  COMMISSION  OF  THE  CITY  OF  SAN  MATEO, 
CALIFORNIA AS FOLLOWS: 
 
1. The Planning Commission finds on the basis of the whole record before it that there is no substantial 
evidence  that  the  project  will  have  a  significant  effect  on  the  environment  and  the  Initial 
Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration reflects the lead agency’s independent judgment and analysis.  
 
2. The custodian of the documents or other material which constitute the record of the proceeding upon 
which this decision is based is the Community Development Department, located at City Hall, 330 
West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, California.

--- page 21 ---
3. The Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration for the 435 E. 3rd Ave. Mixed‐Use Project and the 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting program are adopted.  
 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
AS FOLLOWS: 
 
1. The  Project  conforms  to  applicable  policies  of  the  Land  Use,  Circulation,  Urban  Design,  Housing, 
Conservation and Open Space, and Noise Elements of the City’s General Plan.  
a. The Project conforms to Policy LU 1.8 of the Land Use Element, which encourages allowance 
of mixed‐use developments that include multi‐family dwellings in non‐residential land use 
categories. The Project combines both office uses and multi‐family residential uses which also 
complement the existing commercial uses in the vicinity and in the adjacent downtown core. 
In conformance with Policies LU 2.4 and 3.1, the Project proposes these uses to further the 
downtown area as the social, cultural, and economic center of the City. 
b. In  conformance  with  Policies  C2.5  and  2.10  of  the  Circulation  Element,  a  Transportation 
Impact Analysis and Transportation Demand Management Plan have been prepared for the 
Project. The Transportation Impact Analysis concludes that the Project will not result in a 
significant  impact  caused  by  increased  Vehicle  Miles  Traveled  (VMT).  The  Applicant  has  
agreed to implement a Transportation Demand Management Plan that includes specific trip‐
reduction measures for the life of the Project. The Project will also install new pedestrian 
enhancements such as sidewalks, ramps, and streetlights in conformance with Policies C4.4 
and C4.5. Lastly, the project is subject to Assembly Bill 2097, which prohibits the City from 
imposing minimum parking requirements, including the City’s parking in‐lieu fee, for projects 
within one‐half mile of a major public transit stop. 
c. The  Project  conforms  to  Policies  UD1.3  and  UD1.5  in  the  Urban  Design  Element,  which 
promote E. 3rd Avenue as a gateway and focal point of the City. The Project provides a well‐
designed  building  and  traditional  building  materials  along  the  project’s  two  frontages, 
including  E.  3rd  Avenue.  The  building  materials  also  conform  to  Policy  UD2.3  in  that  the 
materials complement the style of Project and incorporate common materials of the area, 
including brick veneer, wood cladding, and stucco.  
d. The Project conforms to Policies H2.6, H2.10 and H2.12 of the Housing Element in that the 
Project includes five rental housing units in a mixed‐use building. In addition, the project 
devotes one of the total units to the low‐income category and will be responsible for payment 
of a Commercial Linkage Fee in conformance with the City’s below‐market‐rate inclusionary 
program and Policy H2.4. 
e. Policy C/OS 6.6 of the Conservation and Open Space Element requires that new developments 
provide street trees, which this Project conforms to in that a total of five new street trees are 
proposed in conformance to the Street Tree Master Plan. The Project also conforms to Policy 
C/OS 8.1 in that construction of the Project shall adhere to mitigation measures that prevent 
harm to the existing historic building immediately west of the site. 
f. 
The Project conforms to Policies N1.1 and N1.2 of the Noise Element in that an acoustical 
analysis will be required for the Project at the building permit stage of the process ensuring

--- page 22 ---
that operational noise levels will not exceed noise limits. In addition, the Project shall conform 
to Policy N2.1 in that noise measures and monitoring during construction have been included 
as conditions of approval. 
 
2. The Project conforms to applicable policies of the City’s Downtown Area Plan.  
a. In conformance with Policy 1.3, the Project proposes a high quality, traditional building design 
and appropriate building scale and massing that further promote E. 3rd Avenue as a main 
connection to the downtown core. The Project also integrates new street trees, widened 
sidewalks,  and  sidewalk  furnishings  at  the  pedestrian  realm  to  further  the  pedestrian 
connectivity to the downtown core at the pedestrian level along both frontages. 
b. The Project conforms to Policies II.5 and II.10 in that the Project integrates both commercial 
and residential uses in the CBD/S zoning district that complements the downtown CBD zone. 
c. The Project conforms to the maximum bulk and building height provisions of the Zoning Code 
and integrates building stepbacks and residential open spaces at the fifth level substantial 
conformance with Policy III.3. 
d. In  conformance  with  Policy  III.7,  the  Project  activates  the  pedestrian  realm  through  new 
landscaping,  bicycle  parking,  and  furnishings  at  the  street‐level.  The  Project  also  locates 
utilities within the building. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
DOES HEREBY APPROVE 435 E. 3RD AVE. MIXED‐USE PROJECT, PA‐2021‐081 AT 435 E. 3RD AVENUE; AND A SPECIAL 
USE PERMIT FOR 402 S. DELAWARE STREET BASED UPON THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL AND THE 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL INCLUDED IN EXHIBIT A TO THIS RESOLUTION: 
 
1. The  Site  Plan  and  Architectural  Review  (Municipal  Code  Section  27.08.030)  application  for 
construction of a mixed‐use building and associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on 
the following findings: 
a. The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character of the 
neighborhood in that: 
i. The Project employs a high quality, traditional building design with materials that enhance 
the existing architectural character of the surrounding area including brick veneer and 
wood cladding; 
ii. The Project provides a cohesive transition between the downtown to the north and west, 
as well as to the existing residences and commercial businesses to the south and east;  
iii. The  pedestrian  improvements  create  a  walkable  and  inviting  pedestrian  realm  that 
substantially conform with the City’s guidelines relating to sidewalks; and, 
iv. The Project incorporates new landscaping throughout the project’s open space areas to 
further enhance the pedestrian realm. 
b. The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City in 
that:

--- page 23 ---
i. The  Project  provides  residential  and  office  uses  that  together  complement  existing 
commercial uses in the vicinity and in the downtown core to the west; 
ii. Construction of the Project is required to adhere to mitigation measures that limit and 
document  vibration  impacts  to  the  adjacent  structure  that  qualifies  as  an  historic 
resource; 
iii. The Project is consistent with the General Plan and Zoning Code excepting standards 
modified via state law; and, 
iv. The Project is in substantial conformance with the Downtown Area Plan, Bicycle Master 
Plan, and Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan. 
c. The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, and 
otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare in that: 
i. The Project consists of a new mixed‐use building with office uses and residential uses in 
an area well‐served by public transit; 
ii. The Project provides new, well‐designed housing units, particularly rental housing that 
provides opportunities for those unable to manage the expense of ownership housing; 
and, 
iii. The Project optimizes the project vicinity’s development potential for commercial uses 
furthering the downtown as the economic center of the City. 
d. The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission and City 
Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of the zoning ordinance, 
building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site. 
e. The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime prevention, 
and security in that the buildings, paths of travel, and parking facilities will be required to conform 
to the City’s current Security Ordinance through conditions of approval. 
2. The Site Development Planning Application (Municipal Code Section 23.40.040) for the removal of 
major vegetation and associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following findings: 
a. The Project will result in the removal of 31 existing trees, of which four are considered Protected 
Trees. The removal of these trees is necessary to accommodate the development of the proposed 
Project. Six of the total trees are also located on an adjacent site and have been surveyed to be in 
poor condition. All trees will be removed and replaced with appropriate landscaping to enhance 
the site and pedestrian realm through planting of new street trees along both frontages of the 
Project.  
b. All concerns regarding tree removal on the site have been addressed as conditions of approval 
requiring conformance to the City's landscape regulations, through the provision of extensive 
landscaping, including planting of five new street trees, as shown on the project plans, and/or 
through the payment of a fee to the City’s tree planting fund. 
3. The Special Use Permit (Municipal Code Section 27.74.020) application for construction staging at 
402 S. Delaware Street and associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following 
findings:

--- page 24 ---
a. The proposed use of construction staging for a construction project at a separate project site is 
similar to the specifically allowed use of temporary buildings  for construction purposes for a 
period not to exceed the duration of construction. A condition of approval has been integrated 
that requires the temporary use of construction staging to be removed no later than the final 
inspection on the related construction project. 
b. The  proposed  use  will  not  adversely  affect  the  general  health,  safety  and/or  welfare  of  the 
community nor will it cause injury or disturbance to adjacent property by traffic or by excessive 
noise, smoke, odor, noxious gas, dust, glare, heat, fumes or industrial waste given that the use 
and operations of the site are required to be in compliance with all applicable Building Codes, Fire 
Codes, and the Municipal Code. The Project will also be subject to conditions of approval at all 
times  during  the  construction  of  the  related  project  pertaining  to  noise,  dust  control,  and 
construction work hours.

--- page 25 ---
EXHIBIT A 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
 
 
 
 
435 3RD AVE, SAN MATEO, 
 PARCEL # 034181160 
 AS APPROVED BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON  __________ 
 
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of 
approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance. 
Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance. Types of 
Building permits include Demolition, Shoring/Excavation, Foundation, and Superstructure. 
 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING 
PERMIT FOR SHORING OR FOUNDATION, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, whichever is issued first, 
or prior to the deadline specified in that condition. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
1 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE – All building permit plans, details, 
and subsequent construction shall substantially conform with the approved planning 
application. This includes but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and 
other items submitted as part of the approved planning application. Any proposed 
modifications to the approved planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the 
proposed modifications. The Community Development Director, or his/her designee, shall 
determine whether the proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved 
planning application, or whether a planning application modification is required to be 
submitted to permit the proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 
27.08.080 Modifications. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – This complete list of Conditions of Approval shall be 
reproduced onto the second sheet of all building permit plan sets. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall pay all 
outstanding planning application fees. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 PHASING PLAN – The applicant shall submit a complete phasing plan indicating all on‐site 
and off‐site infrastructure improvements and their estimated duration of construction. 
The applicant shall also indicate at what phase each off‐site improvement is to be 
constructed. This plan shall be subject to the review by the Community Development 
Director or his/her designee. (PLANNING)

--- page 26 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 2 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT FOR TREE REMOVAL – The applicant shall obtain a Site 
Development Permit for tree removal from the Planning Division for removal of existing 
trees with a diameter of 6 inches or larger at 54” above grade. For tree removal occurring 
on the adjacent parcel at 216 S. Claremont Street, the Site Development Permit shall also 
be signed by the current property owner(s) and be accompanied by an authorization letter 
prepared and signed by the current property owner(s). The Site Development Permit for 
tree removal shall authorize the applicant to replace on‐site and street trees equivalent or 
greater than the Landscape Unit (LU) value of trees to be removed by planting on‐site and 
street trees, pay a fee in lieu of planting trees at the rate established in the annual 
Comprehensive Fee Schedule upon permit issuance, or a combination of both. 
(PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 VECTOR CONTROL PLAN – The applicant shall enter into a contract with a pest control 
specialist and develop a vector control plan to be submitted for review and approval by 
the Community Development Director and the San Mateo County Mosquito and Vector 
Control District. The plan shall describe measures which shall be taken by the applicant to 
prevent rodent and pest infestation to adjacent sites, specify pest control measures, cover 
all phases of demolition, landscaping removal, and construction plus for a minimum 
period of six months after the completion of construction. The plan shall also specify that 
modifications will be developed and implemented should additional pest control 
measures be required during construction or demolition activity, subject to approval by 
the Community Development Department Director or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
7 APPLICABLE BUILDING STANDARDS AND LOCAL CODES – All building permit plans shall 
demonstrate compliance with the applicable California Building Standards Codes and local 
amendments as adopted by the Building Division at the time of filing the building permit 
application. (BUILDING)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 BAAQMD JOB NUMBER – The applicant shall submit an asbestos demolition and 
renovation notification job number (J#) from Bay Area Air Quality Management District. 
(BAAQMD). (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 DEMOLITION – A building permit for demolition shall be issued in accordance with Section 
23.06.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, to the satisfaction of the Building Official or

--- page 27 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 3 of 43 
 
 
 
 
his/her designee. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 PRE‐CONSTRUCTION CONFERENCE FOR LARGE PROJECTS‐ A pre‐construction conference 
shall be held at a time and location agreed upon by the City and applicant for the purpose 
of reviewing Conditions of Approval and construction‐site procedures.  The applicant shall 
be represented by his design and construction staffs, which include any sub‐contractors.  
Departments having conditions of approval for the project will represent the City. This 
meeting shall be held prior to issuance of the Demolition Permit, Building Permit or Site 
Development Permit, and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued 
first. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 SITE SURVEY – The applicant shall provide a full site survey stamped and signed by a Land 
Surveyor licensed by the State of California. The survey shall include, but not be limited to: 
location and dimensions of property lines, location of streets and easements, existing 
buildings, topographic contour lines, trees/landscape, and other structures. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 SOILS REPORT AND INVESTIGATION LETTER – The applicant shall submit a stamped, 
signed, and dated soils investigation report containing design recommendations and 
integrate recommendations into the plans as‐appropriate, to the satisfaction of the 
Building Official or his/her designee. The applicant shall also submit a letter stamped and 
signed by the Geotechnical engineer of‐record stating the plans and specifications 
substantially conform to the recommendations in the soil report, subject to the 
satisfaction of the Building Official or his/her designee. (BUILDING)  
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
13 FIRE FLOW – The applicant shall provide fire flow information to the Fire Plan Checker, 
which is subject to the review and approval of the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
Parks and Recreation Department (PA) 
 
 
14 STREET TREES – The landscape plans shall specify installation of street trees in accordance 
with the City of San Mateo Street Tree Master Plan. In accordance with Municipal Code 
Section 27.71.120(a)(1), 24‐inch box shall be the minimum size for street trees planted 
along public streets and shall include tree grates and root barriers as specified by the City 
Standard Drawings 3‐1‐847 and 3‐1‐933. The landscape plans shall be subject to the 
review and approval of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (CDD

--- page 28 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 4 of 43 
 
 
 
 
ARBORIST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15 TREE REMOVAL PERMIT AUTHORIZATION – A signature from the current property owner 
at 216 S. Claremont St along with the authorization letter shall be required with the Site 
Development Permit for the removal of trees on adjacent properties as specified in the 
approved Planning Application. Tree removals shall be processed through a Site 
Development Permit ‐ Tree Removal issued by the Planning Division. (CDD ARBORIST) 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
16 ADDRESS PLAN – The applicant shall submit to the Public Works Department a final 
address plan. The plan shall be substantially in conformance with the address plan 
approved with the planning application. Said submittal shall be approved by the Director 
of Public Works or designee prior to the submittal of plans for any demolition permit, 
building permit, or site development permit and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of 
whichever permit is issued first. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17 CHARGES FOR PUBLIC WORKS SERVICES – Prior to plan checking, the applicant shall be 
required to deposit with the City, funds to pay for, at the adopted rate, all engineering, 
inspection and survey services that may be required during plan check and construction of 
the project. The amount of the deposit shall be $50,000. Public Works plan checking of the 
plans submitted with the building permit plans cannot proceed until the deposit is 
submitted. The applicant shall be required to increase the deposit at the discretion of the 
City, for any costs in excess of the deposit. Invoices shall not become delinquent (shall be 
paid within 30 days of receipt). Prior to final occupancy the bill shall be paid in full. The 
City will refund any portion of the deposit not utilized. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18 DOWNTOWN CPID PARKING – The applicant shall demonstrate that the parking required 
by the San Mateo Municipal Code has been fulfilled in accordance with San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 27.64.100 through payment of a prorated CPID parking fee in lieu 
for the loss of (3) street parking spaces on S. Claremont Street between the hours of 8:00 
A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Mondays through Saturdays, subject to the satisfaction of the Public 
Works Director, or his/her designee. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19 ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE – The applicant shall obtain an 
encroachment permit, posting the required bonds and insurance, and provide a one (1) 
year warranty for all work to be done in the City's right of way or easements prior to any

--- page 29 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 5 of 43 
 
 
 
 
work being done. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20 EROSION CONTROL AND STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP) – The 
project shall include erosion control measures in the building permit plans including silt 
fences, fiber rolls, proposed cribbing (retaining walls or riprap), terraces, and/or surface 
protection, required for drainage and erosion control of the property in accordance with 
Municipal Code section 23.40.040(a), subject to review and approval of the Public Works 
Director, or his/her designee. Conformance with these measures will reduce soil erosion 
during construction. The applicant shall also submit an Erosion and Sediment Control Plan 
(which includes erosion control measures), if required by the City Engineer or Building 
Official. The applicant shall also submit a site logistics plan for each phase of operation. 
The plan, at a minimum, shall include estimated timeframes for implementation, duration, 
construction operations. The project applicant shall provide a Storm Water Pollution 
Prevention Plan (SWPPP) in compliance with Bay Area Stormwater Management Agencies 
Association (BASMAA) Blueprint for a Clean Bay Best Management Practices to Prevent 
Stormwater Pollution from Construction‐Related Activities. (PUBLIC WORKS/BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21 GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLANS – All grading and drainage plans shall identify the vertical 
elevation datum, date of survey, and surveyor. Grading plans shall show existing topo and 
features at least 50’ beyond the project boundary. Plan shall show existing topography, 
label contour elevations, drainage patterns, flow lines, slopes, and all other property 
encumbrances. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22 POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCB) SCREENING ASSESSMENT FORM – As per 
Stormwater Municipal Regional Permit requirements and San Mateo Municipal Code 
Chapter 7.39, Demolition Permit Applicants shall complete the PCBs Screening Assessment 
Form located here: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/160/Demolition‐Requirements The 
Form shall be reviewed and approved by the Director of Public Works or his/her designee. 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23 TRAFFIC CONTROL & SITE LOGISTICS PLANS – The applicant shall submit traffic control 
plans for any impact to the right‐of‐way for each phase of operation, including pedestrian 
and bicycle detour plans as applicable. The traffic control plan shall comply with the most 
recent version of the California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD) 
and the City’s Traffic Control Plan Requirements.

--- page 30 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 6 of 43 
 
 
 
 
The applicant shall also submit a site logistics plan for each phase of operation. The plan, 
at a minimum, shall include estimated timeframes for implementation, duration, 
construction operations. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE 
SUPERSTRUCTURE. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
24 ACOUSTICAL ANALYSIS – The applicant shall specify acoustical treatments in the building 
permit plans for the superstructure in compliance with State Building Codes, the City’s 
Noise Ordinance, and General Plan. The applicant shall also submit an acoustical analysis 
prepared by a professional acoustical consultant to ensure that the design incorporates 
controls to reduce interior noise levels to 45 dBA Ldn or lower within the residential units 
and to 50 dBA Leq(1‐hr) or lower within nonresidential interiors subject to the satisfaction 
of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. The applicant shall conform 
with any special building construction techniques noted in the project’s acoustical 
analysis, which may include sound‐rated windows and doors, sound‐rated wall 
constructions, and acoustical caulking. The acoustical analysis and building permit plans 
shall specify the following noise insulation features to reduce interior noise levels to 45 
dBA Ldn or less at residential interiors:  
 
(A) Provide a suitable form of forced‐air mechanical ventilation, subject to the satisfaction 
of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee for all residential units, so 
that windows can be kept closed at the occupant’s discretion to control interior noise and 
achieve the interior noise standards. 
 
(B) Preliminary calculations indicate that residential units facing South Claremont Street 
would require windows and doors with a minimum rating of 30 STC with adequate forced‐
air mechanical ventilation to meet the interior noise threshold of 45 dBA Ldn. 
 
(C) Units facing East 3rd Avenue would require windows and doors with a minimum rating 
of 33 to 34 STC with adequate forced‐air mechanical ventilation to meet the interior noise 
threshold of 45 dBA Ldn.  
(PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25 BELOW MARKET RATE (BMR) AGREEMENT – In accordance with Municipal Code Section 
27.16.050 and Resolution 135 (2010), the applicant shall enter into and record a BMR 
Affordability Restriction Agreement to provide BMR unit(s) and/or pay a fee in‐lieu for

--- page 31 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 7 of 43 
 
 
 
 
fractional unit(s) as outlined in the adopted Comprehensive Fee Schedule. For projects 
that provide BMR unit(s), the BMR unit(s) shall:  
 
(A) Have exterior design and appearance compatible with and substantially the same as 
market rate units within the project, including landscaping;  
 
(B) Be distributed throughout the development project as approved by the City;  
 
(C) Have similar access to the unit from the exterior as market rate units;  
 
(D) Contain proportionately the same number of bedrooms as market rate units, which 
results in a minimum of one one‐bedroom unit for this project;  
 
(E) Generally be of comparable size to similar market rate units;  
 
(F) Have access to all on‐site amenities;  
 
(G) In phased development projects, be constructed proportionately in each phase; and,  
 
(H) Interior unit amenities shall be, at a minimum, UL or AGA‐listed if amenities such as 
floor covering, appliances, and other fixtures differ from market rate units.  
 
The BMR Affordability Restriction Agreement shall be subject to the satisfaction of the 
Housing Manager, or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26 CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE – The applicant shall pay a Child Care Development Fee 
subject to the rate established in the annual Comprehensive Fee Schedule in effect at the 
time of building permit issuance. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27 COMMERCIAL LINKAGE FEE – The applicant shall pay the Affordable Commercial Housing 
Linkage Fee in accordance with Municipal Code Section 23.61 and Resolution 84 (2016) 
subject to the rate established in the annual Comprehensive Fee Schedule in effect at the 
time payment is made. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
28 LOCATION AND SCREENING OF ABOVE GROUND UTILITIES AND EQUIPMENT (use the 
following condition for projects with above ground utilities) – All screening for any ground‐
level utilities, equipment, and other project related operational/utility devices shall be

--- page 32 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 8 of 43 
 
 
 
 
shown on the building permit plans in substantial conformance with the approved 
planning application. All above ground utilities and equipment shall be screened with 
landscaping, fencing, and/or other solid materials to the satisfaction of the Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29 SCREENING OF ROOFTOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT – All rooftop mechanical equipment 
shall be shown on the building permit plans in substantial conformance with the approved 
planning application. All equipment shall be painted and/or screened by a solid enclosure 
or parapet wall with materials compatible with the building design subject to the 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30 SIGNAGE – Preliminary signage shown in the approved planning application plans are for 
information only. Final signage shall be reviewed and approved in accordance with Title 25 
of the Municipal Code. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
31 CALGREEN – The building permit plans shall incorporate the applicable CALGreen Checklist 
noting the green building measures the project will incorporate in accordance with the 
California Green Building Standards Code and City of San Mateo Reach Codes subject to 
the review and approval by the Building Official, or his/her designee. Current City of San 
Mateo CALGreen checklists are located on Building Division webpage or will be provided 
by Community Development Department staff, if requested. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
32 VAPOR INTRUSION MITIGATION PLAN – A Vapor Intrusion Mitigation Plan shall be 
prepared that includes a Vapor Mitigation System (VMS) that will prevent exposure of 
future employees and residents to VOCs in indoor air as a result of vapor intrusion. The 
Vapor Intrusion Mitigation Plan will require the project applicant to design the interior 
spaces with appropriate structural and engineering features to reduce risk of vapor 
intrusion into the building. At a minimum, this design shall include: 1) passive sub‐slab 
ventilation with a spray applied seamless vapor barrier (and with the ability to convert the 
system from passive to active ventilation), 2) monitoring to ensure the long‐term 
effectiveness of the remedy, and 3) the implementation of institutional controls. The 
Vapor Intrusion Mitigation Plan shall be submitted to the San Mateo County 
Environmental Health Services (SMCEHS) for review and approval. Alternative designs may 
be acceptable if approved in writing by the SMCEHS. The applicant shall provide proof of 
SMCEHS approval for the Vapor Intrusion Mitigation Plan to the City's Building Division.

--- page 33 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 9 of 43 
 
 
 
 
(BUILDING/PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
33 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – The applicant shall submit a completed Water 
Conservation in Landscaping Screening Form. If the screening form indicates the project is 
subject to the Water Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance pursuant to Municipal Code 
Section 23.72.030, additional documentation prescribed by the screening form shall also 
be included with the site plan. City of San Mateo Water Conservation in Landscaping 
forms are located on Building Division webpage. The applicant shall submit the required 
landscape documentation package with building permit application subject to the review 
and satisfaction of the Building Official, or his/her designee.  (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
34 CODE CONFORMANCE – The applicant shall indicate on all building permit plans that all 
construction shall meet current code standards at the time of building permit submittal. 
The building permit plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or 
his/her designee. (FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35 FIRE CONTROL ROOM – The plans shall show a fire control room with direct access from 
the exterior of the building subject to the requirements listed in the Fire Department’s 
local Ordinance and subject to the review and approval of the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
36 FIRE DEPARTMENT SUBMITTALS – The applicant shall submit all plans involving fire 
systems (including but not limited to fire sprinklers, fire hydrants, and fire alarms) in 
conjunction with the superstructure building permit plans to the Fire Department. The 
plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
Police Department (PA) 
 
 
37 BUILDING SECURITY CODE COMPLIANCE –  The building permit plans shall comply with the 
City’s Building Security Code (San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.54). (POLICE)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
38 PHOTOMETRIC PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENT – The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall include a photometric plan showing the installation of lighting fixtures 
and lighting levels to be reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police or his/her designee. 
The photometric plan shall include point‐by‐point lighting levels in foot‐candles for the

--- page 34 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 10 of 43 
 
 
 
 
entire plot and ten feet beyond the project property lines.  The point‐by‐point 
photometric plan shall provide lighting levels on a grid not to exceed five feet by five feet 
across the entire site.  Each point shall report the illuminance to the nearest 0.1 foot‐
candles.  Photometric calculations including maximum foot‐candles, average foot‐candles, 
minimum foot‐candles, average to minimum uniformity, and maximum to minimum 
uniformity shall be included on the plan submitted.  Select specifications for fixtures 
selected shall be provided on the photometric plan sufficient to ensure compliance with 
the SITE LIGHTING STANDARDS.  (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39 PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS FOR TALL BUILDINGS – The building permit plans for 
the superstructure shall show compliance with Security Code SMMC “23.54.020  CITY 
COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS – HIGH RISE BUILDINGS”, by providing for the following 
allowances for the placement of emergency communications equipment on the building 
permit plans: 
 
(A) Enough enclosed space for the equivalent of one dedicated server rack in a locked 
server room that is clean, dry, and well‐ventilated (this does not need to be a fire control 
room); 
 
(B) One 4” conduit from the designated server rack through the roof.  The conduit shall be 
provided with wide radius bends, a weatherhead on the roof, and a pull string and ring; 
 
(C) Authorization to mount antennas on the roof.  The maximum allowable distance from 
the designated server rack to the antenna mounting location shall be 100 feet; 
 
(D) One 20 amp, 120 VAC dedicated electrical circuit on the building's emergency 
generator.  An uninterruptable power supply (UPS) may be installed by the City if the 
building is not provided with an emergency generator; 
 
(E) 12 copper cable pairs to the building's main telephone terminal; and, 
 
(F) Ground buss bar bonded to the building grounding system. 
 
This requirement is in addition to the requirement of the California Fire Code to supply a 
functional emergency responder radio coverage system. (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40 SECURED BUILDING ACCESS BY EMERGENCY PERSONNEL – The building permit plans for 
the superstructure shall show the detailed specifications for and the installation of

--- page 35 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 11 of 43 
 
 
 
 
telephone entry pads (TEPs) and/or wireless “click to enter” systems at the main exterior 
building entrance(s) and parking garage entrance(s) for secured buildings.  These access 
systems must allow emergency personnel to access all levels of the interior of the 
building. The access systems must also be installed at exterior gate locations that lead to 
secured areas of the site, such as interior courtyards.  Access system placement location is 
subject to the review and approval of the Chief of Police or his/her designee, prior to the 
approval of the first building permit for the project. Police access codes shall be as 
provided by the Chief of Police or his/her designee at the time of installation. (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
41 SITE FURNITURE – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show permanent 
site furniture accessible to the public designed and installed to prevent an adult from 
laying down by installing arm rests not more than 4' apart, or by designing elevation 
changes 4" or more on horizontal surfaces every 4'.  Temporary site furniture shall be 
secured at the close of each business day. (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
42 STAIRWELL & EXTERIOR DOORS – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall 
show the maximum allowable viewing panel in egress doors from stairwells and exterior 
doors leading to exterior areas, parking garages, and basement levels. (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43 VIDEO SURVEILLANCE SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENT – The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall include a plan showing the installation of cameras and approximate 
viewing fields of surveillance cameras to be reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police 
or his/her designee.  The plan shall include cameras placed to view areas as required by 
VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS, and include select specifications for cameras and 
storage equipment to ensure compliance with the VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS.  
(POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
44 CLEAN, INSPECT AND REPAIR SANITARY SEWER – The applicant shall clean and inspect (via 
remote TV camera) the mainline sewer from the manhole upstream to the manhole 
downstream of the project lateral connection MH 13H:32X to MH 12H:09X. The video 
inspection shall be done by a professional sanitary sewer video inspection company, to 
City standards and the Sewer System Management Plan (SSMP), and be completed prior 
to issuance of the building permit for the superstructure. The video of the inspection shall 
be reviewed with the Department of Public Works and any cracked or broken areas of the 
line along the project frontage shall be repaired by the applicant at his expense. The

--- page 36 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 12 of 43 
 
 
 
 
required repairs (spray foam‐RazoRooter or flushing, or removal of roots, or replacement), 
as determined by the Public Works Department, shall appear on the building permit plans 
for the superstructure submitted by the applicant for permit plan check. All necessary 
repairs to the sewer shall be completed and approved prior to connection of the project 
lateral to the sewer. The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show all 
sanitary sewer lines to be clean and inspected. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45 CLEAN, INSPECT AND REPAIR STORM LINE – The applicant shall clean and inspect (via 
remote TV camera) the storm line from the manhole upstream to the manhole 
downstream of the project area CB 13H:54 to MH 12H:29. The video inspection shall be 
done by a professional video inspection company, to City standards and the Sewer System 
Management Plan (SSMP), and be completed prior to issuance of the building permit for 
the superstructure. The video of the inspection shall be reviewed with the Department of 
Public Works and any cracked or broken areas of the line along the project frontage shall 
be repaired by the applicant at his expense. The required repairs, as determined by the 
Public Works Department, shall appear on the building permit plans for the superstructure 
submitted by the applicant for permit plan check. All necessary repairs to the storm line 
shall be completed and approved prior to connection from the project site. The building 
permit plans for the superstructure shall show all storm drain lines to be clean and 
inspected.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
46 DRAINAGE – The building permit plans show drainage designed into landscaping with the 
purpose of reducing volume or improving quality of runoff from the site shall be 
implemented, to the extent feasible, subject to the approval of the Director of Public 
Works or designee. Where necessary, sidewalk drains per City Standard Drawing 3 1 120 
shall be provided to direct the water under the sidewalk and through the curb. No 
increase to the peak discharge shall be permitted downstream. In addition, discharge shall 
conform to any non point source permit issued by the Regional Water Quality Control 
Board. Drainage improvements made on‐site shall conform to standard engineering 
practices and shall not allow any site drainage to impact adjacent properties. All drainage 
capacity calculations shall be performed by a licensed Civil Engineer, whose signed 
engineer’s stamp shall appear on the calculations sheets and shall be submitted to the City 
for review and approval with the project civil plans submitted as part of the building 
permit for the superstructure. The applicant shall install <insert improvements>. Projects 
that include permanent structural controls for stormwater treatment, shall comply with 
requirements of Section C.3 of the Municipal Regional Stormwater Permit for San Mateo 
County (MRP). The O&M (operation and maintenance) procedures for such control 
features shall be submitted for review and approval prior to occupancy and specify the

--- page 37 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 13 of 43 
 
 
 
 
owner’s responsibility to ensure their ongoing effective operation and maintenance. Such 
O&M responsibility requirements shall be recorded with the County of San Mateo 
Recorder’s Office. The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show drainage. 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
47 FENCES AND OTHER PERMANENT STRUCTURES – The applicant shall locate all project 
fencing and foundations of a permanent nature within the project’s property and out of 
the City right‐of‐way. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
48 GARBAGE/RECYCLE/COMPOSTING STORAGE AND SERVICE – The applicant shall provide an 
adequate area for the purposes of storing garbage, recycling, composting collection 
containers for scheduled servicing by the franchise solid waste collection service. The 
containers shall be placed at the service location allowing enough room for the truck to 
safely approach the containers. The collection containers shall be brought to the service 
area and returned to the storage enclosure by the property owner. The containers are not 
to be in public view or in the public right‐of‐way prior to, or beyond the scheduled service 
times. A letter shall be provided from the City’s franchise solid waste collection service 
provider stating that service is available to the project as designed. The building permit 
plans for the superstructure shall show garbage and recycling areas. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
49 INTERIOR FLOOR DRAINS – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show all 
interior floor drains and shall be plumbed to connect to the sanitary sewer system and 
shall not be connected to stormwater collection system per the San Mateo Countywide 
Water Pollution Prevention Program’s C.3 requirements. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
50 PARK IMPACT FEES – The applicant shall pay a park impact fee (SMMC Section 13.05.070) .  
The final fee shall be determined prior to the issuance of the building permit for the park 
impact fee. The park impact fee shall be paid prior to the issuance of the building permit. 
(PARKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
51 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT (PIA) – If the applicant wishes to have the Building 
Permit for the superstructure issued  prior to the completion of the project’s public 
improvements, the applicant shall enter into a Public Improvement Agreement (PIA) with 
the City and shall arrange to provide security for the remaining public improvements to be 
completed.  The PIA will be forwarded to the City Council for approval. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 38 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 14 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
52 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS – An Encroachment Permit shall be required for all public 
improvements in the public right‐of‐way or easements. All public improvements shall be 
completed prior to the Certificate of Occupancy.  
 
The developer shall repair or replace all existing improvements not designated for removal 
and all new improvements that are damaged or removed because of developer's 
operations. Developer shall request a walk‐through with the Public Works Construction 
Inspector before the start of construction to verify existing conditions. 
 
The applicant shall have improvement plans prepared for all work in the public right of 
way or easements by a licensed civil engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp shall appear 
on the plans. The improvement plans shall be included in the superstructure building 
permit submittal and substantially conform to the approved planning application. Any 
changes to the improvements shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or 
designee at their sole discretion. All design assumptions and criteria shall be submitted. 
Project specifications shall be included for review. 
 
All work shown on the improvement plans shall be inspected and approved by Public 
Works. 
 
Quantities for items below are provided only to determine minimum bonding 
requirements for the encroachment permit. The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the following public improvements in the public right of way:  
 
(A) STREET MARKINGS – The applicant shall install necessary street markings of a material 
and design approved by the Director of Public Works or designee and replace any that are 
damaged during construction. These include but are not limited to all pavement markings, 
painted curbs and handicap markings. All permanent pavement markings shall be 
thermoplastic. Color and location of painted curbs shall be shown on the plans and subject 
to approval by the Director of Public Works or designee. Any existing painted curb or 
pavement markings no longer required shall be removed by grinding if thermoplastic, sand 
blasting if in paint. Once installed, the applicant shall coordinate with City crews to mark 
any red curb within the proposed City right‐of‐way with a City seal. (PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
(B) SIDEWALK, CURB AND GUTTER – The applicant shall replace to existing City standards 
all sidewalk, curb and gutter surrounding the project site. Sidewalk, curb and gutter 
replacement shall be constructed per City Standard Drawing 3‐1‐141A. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
  
(C) CURB RAMPS – The applicant shall construct curb ramps in accordance with State

--- page 39 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 15 of 43 
 
 
 
 
Standard Drawing No. A88A at 3rd/Claremont Intersection, as shown on the approved 
plan. The actual ramp "Case" shall be identified on the plans and shall be approved by the 
Director of Public Works or designee or designee. (PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
(D) SEWER LATERAL – The applicant shall install as a minimum a six (6) inch City Standard 
sewer lateral connection from the property line to the sewer main located in the street 
right of way. The installation shall be done in accordance with City Standard Drawing 3 1 
101. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
(E)  STORM MAIN ‐ The applicant shall install 89 LF of new 12‐inch mainline storm along 
Claremont Street frontage from the existing manhole at the 3rd/Claremont intersection, 
as shown on the plan and in accordance with City Standards established by the Director of 
Public Works or designee. The new storm lines shall be RCP or as approved by the City 
Engineer or designee. Applicant shall submit plans, drawings and storm calculations for 
review and approval by the Public Works Director or designee prior to submitting the first 
building permit for the superstructure. Construction of the new mainline shall be 
completed prior to issuance of the certificate of occupancy. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
(G) SANITARY AND STORM SEWER MANHOLES – The applicant shall install one (1) 
standard sanitary sewer manhole and three (3) standard storm sewer manhole, per 
approved plans and in accordance with City Standard Drawing No. 3 1 104. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
 
(H) STORM WATER CATCH BASINS – The applicant shall install two (2) standard storm 
water catch basins, per approved plans and in accordance with City Standard Drawing No. 
3 1 121. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
(I) GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 
7.39, the applicant shall install and maintain green infrastructure (GI) improvements 
including Silva Cells located along project frontages on East 3rd Avenue and South 
Claremont Street. The improvements shall be in accordance with the guidance and 
specifications provided by San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program or 
City of San Mateo GI Plan design and shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or 
designee. Drainage capacity calculations shall be performed by a licensed Civil Engineer, 
whose signed Engineer’s stamp shall appear on the calculations sheets and shall be 
submitted to the City for review and approval with the project superstructure plans. GI 
improvements shall be maintained by the adjacent property owner and included in the 
stormwater treatment O&M (operation and maintenance) agreement that is recorded 
with the County of San Mateo Recorder’s Office. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 40 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 16 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
(J) STREETLIGHTS AND INFRASTRUCTURE – The applicant shall submit both a lighting plan 
and streetlight improvement plan. 
 
Lighting Plan: 
The lighting plan shall include a design for lighting all public streets, intersections, 
sidewalks, pedestrian paths, and bicycle facilities located in the public roadway right‐of‐
way adjacent to the project site. The lighting plan shall be designed to meet the lighting 
levels recommended in the Illuminating Engineering Society’s (IES) Recommended Practice 
For Design And Maintenance Of Roadway And Parking Facility Lighting (ANSI/IES RP‐8‐18), 
and shall be based on photometric analysis prepared using lighting design software.  The 
lighting plan shall show the location and type of all luminaires, luminaire mounting 
heights, luminaire arm lengths, photometric analysis zones, and all calculated point 
illuminance values.  The analysis in the lighting plan shall utilize the Illuminance Method 
described in ANSI/IES RP‐8‐18.  Separate analysis zones shall be used for each street, each 
sidewalk by frontage, and each intersection.  Analysis zones and calculation points shall be 
configured according to the City’s standard practice in use at the time the analysis is 
begun.  The analysis zone for each street fronting the project site shall include the entirety 
of the roadway from curb face to curb face. The design for the lighting plan shall achieve 
the required lighting levels using the least number of luminaires possible, using a 
consistent pattern of luminaire placement, and shall include luminaires on both sides of 
the street if such a pattern reduces the number of luminaires required, unless otherwise 
approved by the City.  However, the applicant shall only be responsible for installing the 
luminaires on their side of the street.  The design shall also include pedestrian scale 
lighting if pedestrian scale lighting is already in use on the block of the project frontage, or 
if the City’s Pedestrian Master Plan recommends pedestrian scale lighting on the project 
frontage.  Pedestrian scale lights shall be placed at a minimum spacing of 50 feet between 
poles on the same side of the street.  Cobra head lights shall be placed at a minimum 
spacing of 100 feet between poles on the same side of the street.  There shall be a 
minimum spacing of 50 feet between cobra head and pedestrian scale lights on the same 
side of the street, if a mix of both types of lighting is used.  Reduced spacing may be 
approved by the City if the photometric analysis indicates it is necessary to meet the 
required lighting levels.  The design may incorporate existing luminaires.  All new 
luminaires shall be selected from the City’s list of standard luminaires at the time of 
design.  Only City owned streetlights within the public right‐of‐way, or located in an 
easement on private property, may be used, unless otherwise approved by the City. 
The photometric analysis in the lighting plan shall utilize the following parameters for this 
project as defined in ANSI/IES RP‐8‐18. 
3rd Avenue: Major roadway, High pedestrian activity level

--- page 41 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 17 of 43 
 
 
 
 
Claremont Street: Collector roadway, High pedestrian activity level 
 
Streetlight Improvement Plan: 
The applicant shall implement the lighting plan from their project frontage to the roadway 
centerline.  The applicant shall submit a streetlight improvement plan showing all work 
necessary to construct the streetlight improvements for which they are responsible to 
implement. The plan shall include all electrical calculations (i.e. voltage drop) required for 
design of a functional streetlight system that complies with all applicable codes and 
standards. The City will provide the applicant with information about the type and 
approximate location of existing streetlights near the project site that are to be included in 
the photometric analysis.  It shall be the applicant’s responsibility to field verify the 
location of all existing streetlight equipment and infrastructure, including, but not limited 
to, underground conduits, pull boxes, poles, and electrical service connections, as needed 
for the preparation of the photometric analysis and streetlight improvement plans. 
 
The applicant shall prepare all documents needed as attachments to applications to the 
serving electrical utility for new, or modifications to existing, electrical service 
connections.  The City will submit the application to the serving utility. 
 
The applicant shall pay all fees, permits, dues, etc., associated with implementing the 
streetlight improvements. 
 
The applicant shall consult with the City for additional guidance on preparing the lighting 
plan and streetlight improvement plan, prior to beginning preparation of said both plans. 
If any changes to streetlight locations or quantities are proposed during the building 
permit phase, a new photometric analysis shall be prepared by the applicant for review 
and approval by the Director of Public Works or designee and the lighting shall be 
furnished and installed in accordance with the new photometric analysis as approved. 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
53 SANITARY SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE – The applicant shall pay a charge proportional to 
the project’s share of the increased amount of sewage generated by the project, as 
established by San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 3.54.060. The charge will be based 
upon the City Council resolution in effect at the time of building permit issuance. The fee 
shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first 
superstructure building permit. The fee shall be based on the fee schedule in effect on 
January 13, 2022. (PUBLIC WORKS, BUILDING)

--- page 42 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 18 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
54 SEPARATE WATER METERS – When a development includes multiple uses, there shall be a 
separate water meter for each development use. The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the separate water meters. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
55 STORM DRAIN INLETS AND WATERWAYS – The building permit plans shall show the 
marking of the words “No Dumping! Flows to Bay,” or equivalent, on all storm inlets 
surrounding and within the project site using methods approved by the City standards, 
consistent with the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program’s C.3 
requirements (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
56 TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE – The applicant shall pay a fee proportional to the 
project's share of transportation improvements needed to serve cumulative development 
within the City of San Mateo, as established by San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.13. 
The fee shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of 
the first superstructure building permit. The fee shall be based on the fee schedule in 
effect on January 13, 2022. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
57 TRASH CAPTURE DEVICES – The building permits shall show installation of trash capture 
devices in storm drain systems that lead directly to the off‐site storm drain system or 
outfall. Devices shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee or designee. 
Trash capture devices are required on site consistent with the State Water Resources 
Control Board definition of Full Capture System. All on‐site trash capture devices shall be 
cleaned routinely and maintained by the Owner per the Stormwater Treatment Facilities 
Maintenance Agreement. The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show 
trash capture devices. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
58 TRIANGULAR AREA OF VISIBILITY – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall 
show that the installation of landscaping and permanent structures located within the 25’ 
triangular area of visibility at any project corner meets the requirements of a minimum 
vertical clearance of 7', and/or are less than 3' in height. This includes all PG&E above 
ground structures and other utility facilities. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
59 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show 
the installation of all new, and upgraded, utility services, including telephone, electric 
power, and other communications lines underground to the building in accordance with 
City of San Mateo Municipal Code 26.32.020. Transformers and switch gear cabinets shall

--- page 43 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 19 of 43 
 
 
 
 
be placed on private property or within a utility easement.  (PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
60 UTILITIES – Utility plans shall be submitted as part of the building permit plans for the 
superstructure and shall show appropriate line types and labels to identify different type 
of utilities and pipe sizes. Clearly identify both public and private utilities. 
 
The Developer shall provide joint trench composite plans for the underground electrical, 
gas, telephone, cable television, and communication conduits and cables including the 
size, location and details of all trenches, locations of building utility service stubs and 
meters and placements or arrangements of junction structures. 
 
Sanitary sewer laterals and/or water meters located in driveways shall have traffic rated 
boxes and lids. 
 
Developer is required to confirm the location of existing utility lines along the project 
frontage by potholing. Prior to any potholing, developer shall obtain an encroachment 
permit and submit a pothole plan for City review and approval. Developer shall provide 
the pothole results to the Director of Public Works or designee or designee prior to final 
design. Any utility conflicts shall be the responsibility of the developer to rectify. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
61 WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT PHASE II IMPACT FEE – In order to meet the increased 
demands on the Wastewater Treatment Plant created by this project, the applicant shall 
contribute fees toward the Plant expansion based upon the average projected sanitary 
flow, as established by City Council Resolution No. 24 (2006). The fee shall be collected by 
the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first superstructure 
building permit. The fee shall be based on the fee schedule in effect on January 13, 2022. . 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
62 WILL SERVE LETTER FOR WATER – The applicant shall provide a will‐serve letter from 
Calwater subject to the satisfaction of the Director of Public works or designee. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, ISSUANCE 
OF A TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, or ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, 
whichever occurs first.

--- page 44 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 20 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
63 ACOUSTICAL COMPLIANCE LETTER – The applicant shall submit an acoustical compliance 
letter to the Project Planner written and signed by the project acoustical consultant 
indicating all recommendations incorporated into the project to reach compliance with 
the noise limits listed in Tables N‐1 and N‐2 of the Noise Element of the General Plan. This 
letter shall be submitted prior to scheduling the Planning Final Inspection. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
64 ARCHITECTURAL COMPLIANCE LETTER – The applicant shall submit an architectural 
compliance letter to the Project Planner written, signed, and stamped by the architect or 
designer of record indicating that all construction is consistent with the approved 
architectural plans. This letter shall be submitted prior to scheduling the Planning Final 
Inspection. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
65 LANDSCAPE VERIFICATION LETTER – The applicant shall submit a landscape verification 
letter to the Project Planner written, signed, and stamped by the project landscape 
architect indicating that all on‐site and off‐site landscape improvements (including on‐site 
trees, street trees, shrubs, and irrigation systems) have been installed in compliance with 
the approved landscape plans. This letter shall be submitted prior to scheduling the 
Planning Final Inspection. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
66 LANDSCAPING AGREEMENT – The applicant shall provide proof of an agreement with a 
licensed landscape contractor or General Contractor for the duration of the project’s Plant 
Establishment Maintenance Period, which consists of three (3) growing season months 
(March through October) for all proposed landscaped areas.  (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
67 OFF‐SITE CONSTRUCTION STAGING – The applicant shall return the lot intended for off‐
site construction staging at 402 S. Delaware Street (APN: 034186110) to a vacant lot in 
accordance with Municipal Code Chapter 7.48 prior to scheduling of the Planning Final 
inspection, unless building permits for an entitled redevelopment are issued at this site. 
(PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
68 PLANNING FINAL INSPECTION – Upon completion of all construction and landscaping, the 
applicant shall request the Project Planner conduct a Planning Final inspection for  
verification of compliance with all outstanding conditions of approval. The applicant shall 
contact the Project Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in 
advance of the requested inspection. (PLANNING)

--- page 45 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 21 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
69 ART IN PUBLIC PLACES – The applicant shall comply with Section 23.60 of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code for Art in Public Places. (BUILDING)(BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
70 SOIL FINAL REPORT – The Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared the soil 
investigation, or an equally qualified professional, shall issue a final report stating the 
completed pad, foundation, finish grading and associated site work substantially conform 
to the approved plans, specifications and investigations, to the satisfaction of the Building 
Official or his/her designee. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
71 VMS LONG‐TERM OPERATIONS, MAINTENANCE, AND MONITORING PLAN – A Long‐Term 
Operations, Maintenance, and Monitoring Plan (OMMP) shall also be submitted to the 
SMCEHS for approval that presents the actions that must be taken following construction 
to maintain and monitor the VMS. The OMMP shall also include a contingency plan in case 
of VMS failure, and a financial assurance mechanism shall be established to prove that 
adequate funds are available for long‐term maintenance and monitoring of the VMS. The 
applicant shall provide proof of SMCEHS approval for the items above to the City’s 
Building Division prior to issuance release of utilities, final inspection, issuance of a 
temporary certificate of occupancy, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever 
occurs first. (BUILDING/PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
72 VMS POST CONSTRUCTION SAMPLING – To document the effectiveness of the Vapor 
Mitigation System (VMS) post‐construction sampling shall be conducted by a State of 
California qualified Environmental Professional. The results of soil gas sampling, design 
and installation of the VMS, and post‐construction sampling shall be submitted to the 
SMCEHS for review and approval prior to the issuance of occupancy permits. The sampling 
shall be conducted prior to the issuance of occupancy permits at approximately four 
weeks after completion of construction, with subsequent testing during the potentially 
“worst‐case” months of January/February and June/July. The applicant shall provide proof 
of SMCEHS approval for the items above to the City’s Building Division prior to issuance 
release of utilities, final inspection, issuance of a temporary certificate of occupancy, or 
issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first. (BUILDING/PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
73 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – In accordance with the City’s Water 
Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance in Municipal Code Section 23.72.030, a licensed

--- page 46 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 22 of 43 
 
 
 
 
landscape architect, a licensed landscape contractor, or a certified irrigation designer shall 
complete the “Certification of Completion” in the City of San Mateo Water Conservation 
in Landscaping form. Upon completion of the work, the certification of completion shall be 
submitted to the City’s Building Inspector subject to the review and approval of the 
Building Official, or his/her designee. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
74 EMERGENCY RESPONDER RADIO COVERAGE – An Emergency Responder Radio Coverage 
system may be required for this project.  Testing shall occur during construction due to 
circuit protection requirements that will affect building design. The applicant shall provide 
a third‐party testing grid report to the Fire Department subject to the review and approval 
by the Fire Marshal or his/her designee prior to the Fire Final Inspection. (FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
75 FIRE HYDRANTS – The applicant shall install  the approved number of public/private fire 
hydrant(s) spaced as per the Fire Department’s local Ordinance. All fire hydrants used for 
fire flow for the project site shall be upgraded to a Clow model 960 or equivalent 
consisting of (2) 2‐½ inch and (1) 4‐½ inch outlets. Each hydrant shall be capable of 
providing a minimum fire flow of 1500 gpm at 20 psi residual pressure. Water supply for 
fire protection is required to be installed in accordance with water purveyor’s 
specifications.  The water supply shall be tested, flushed and approved operable prior to 
any combustible construction materials being placed on the site.  Staged construction 
shall insure that the necessary water supply is maintained from stage to stage in the 
construction planning. The letter shall be submitted to the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee for review and approval prior to the Fire Final Inspection. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
76 FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM – The applicant shall install a fire sprinkler system in accordance 
with NFPA 13 or the California Fire Code subject to review and approval by the Fire 
Marshal or his/her designee prior to the Fire Final Inspection. (FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
77 DEDICATIONS – The applicant or owner shall dedicate a three (3) foot wide strip of land 
along E. 3rd Avenue and half (0.5) foot wide strip of land along S. Claremont Street 
frontage for sidewalk easement purposes. Where required, the applicant shall also 
dedicate a property line radius at the corner of the property. The applicant shall provide 
plat and legal of the subject easements for City review and approval as part of the building 
permit plan submittal and have the easement documents recorded prior to final

--- page 47 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 23 of 43 
 
 
 
 
inspection or occupancy permit issuance. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
78 RECORD DRAWINGS – The applicant shall submit one full set of original record drawings 
and construction specifications for all off‐site improvements to the Department of Public 
Works. All underground facilities shall be shown on the record drawings as constructed in 
the field. The applicant shall also provide the City with an electronic copy of the as‐builts 
in PDF and the AutoCAD Version being used by the City at the time of completion of the 
work. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
79 RESTORATION OF ROADWAY – Due to the anticipated project’s truck traffic, the applicant 
shall grind and overlay with 2.5 inches of asphalt concrete of the roadways anticipated to 
be damaged as a result of construction activities within the general area of the project or 
along the designated haul route. If the street abutting the property has been classified as 
being in a failed condition or a Pavement Condition Index (PCI) of 50 or below, the 
applicant shall reconstruct the street. Limits of the roadway repair shall be curb‐to‐curb 
width of the 3rd Avenue and Claremont Street frontages including the entire 
3rd/Claremont intersection, subject to the review and approval of the Director of Public 
Works or designee. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
80 STORM WATER TREATMENT FACILITIES MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT – The applicant shall 
execute a maintenance agreement with the City’s Director of Public Works or designee as 
specified in San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39 of the Stormwater Management and 
Discharge Control ordinance and the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention 
Program C.3 Program Technical Guidance. The agreement shall outline the continuous 
operation and maintenance (O&M) plan for the permanent storm water treatment 
facilities including irrigation and landscape maintenance of Green Infrastructure elements 
constructed in the public right‐of‐way and shall be recorded with the County Recorder’s 
Office. This agreement shall be executed prior to the first occupancy of the building. 
(PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
81 TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM) PROGRAM – A Transportation 
Demand Management (TDM) Program has been prepared for this project (refer to the 
TDM Plan prepared by Steer, dated October 2022). The property owner or designee shall 
submit a written letter to the Public Works Director on an annual basis with an 
assessment of compliance with the Transportation Demand Management Plan, including 
mode split survey results, by the end of every calendar year (December 31st).

--- page 48 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 24 of 43 
 
 
 
 
Additionally, the property owner or their designee shall participate in the formation of the 
Downtown Transportation Management Association (TMA). (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
82 TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM) PROGRAM – The project shall 
implement a Transportation Demand Management Program using programs in 
compliance with the San Mateo City/County Association of Governments (C/CAG) 
Guidelines for Trip Reduction.  These programs, once implemented, shall be on‐going for 
the occupied life of the development.  The C/CAG Guidelines specify the number of trips 
that may be credited for each TDM measure.  The actions included in the plan will include 
those listed in the approved project Transportation Demand Plan prepared by Steer, dated 
October 2022, the project Traffic Impact Analysis, dated August 2022, or a combination of 
other actions based on the C/CAG Guidelines, that result in a minimum 25% reduction of 
project generated trips.  Actions may include any or all of the following:  Secure Bicycle 
Storage, Shower Changing Facilities, Sustainable Transportation Incentives, New Resident 
Packets, Employee TDM Coordinator, TMA Participation, Flexible Work 
Hours/Telecommuting and options to participate in the Caltrain GO Pass Program, Bike 
Education, Wayfinding, and Shared Mobility Support. The program shall be recorded with 
C/CAG. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
83 TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (TMA) – This project is required to 
participate in the TMA, including annual payment of membership dues, when it has been 
established by the City. The TMA will develop TDM measures and make them available to 
both existing and future development within the Downtown area. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION PHASE 
OF THE PROJECT. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
84 FRAME/PLANNING ROUGH INSPECTION – Upon completion of all framing and prior to the 
installation of exterior sheathing and windows, the applicant shall request the Project 
Planner conduct a Rough Frame inspection to verify items including, but not limited to, 
window locations, window sizes, and massing. The applicant shall contact the Project 
Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance of the requested 
inspection. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
85 PALEONTOLOGICAL RESOURCES – In the event of the discovery of paleontological 
resources (fossils) whether on‐site or in the public right‐of‐way, the applicant shall halt all

--- page 49 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 25 of 43 
 
 
 
 
construction activities within 50 feet of the discovery, notify the Planning Manager and/or 
Project Planner, and retain a qualified paleontologist to determine the significance of the 
discovery. The paleontologist shall evaluate the uniqueness of the find, prepare a written 
report documenting the find and recommending further courses of action, and submit a 
summary of findings to the Project Planner. The applicant shall incorporate the 
recommendations of the paleontologist when continuing construction. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
86 CONSTRUCTION WORK HOURS – Construction shall occur only between the hours of 7:00 
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on 
Saturday, and between 12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m. on Sundays and holidays. These hours 
do not apply to construction that takes place inside a completely enclosed building and 
does not exceed the exterior ambient noise level as measured 10 feet from the exterior 
property lines. The applicant shall conform to the construction work hours to control 
traffic congestion, noise, and dust unless an exemption is granted in accordance with 
Municipal Code Section 23.06.061. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
87 ADDRESS NUMBERS – The applicant shall post temporary address numbers on each 
building at the project site that must be easily visible from the street or fire access road. 
(FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
88 BARRICADES ACROSS EMERGENCY ACCESS ROADS – Prior to the installation or use of 
barricades, fences, or gates across emergency vehicle access roads during construction, 
the applicant submit plans to the Fire Plan Checker subject to the review and approval of 
the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
89 DEMOLITION – The applicant shall comply with the California Fire Code Chapter 33 during 
all phases of construction of the project. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
90 EGRESS – The applicant shall maintain required egress for all adjacent 
buildings/properties.  (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
91 STANDPIPES – For projects that require standpipes by California Fire Code Section 905.3.1, 
the applicant shall provide not less than one standpipe for use during construction or

--- page 50 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 26 of 43 
 
 
 
 
demolition. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
92 ARCHITECTURAL COPPER – Per the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention 
Program’s requirements, the applicant shall follow the specific best management practices 
for the installation of the Architectural Copper. For detailed information please distribute 
the flyer to all construction personnel involved in the fabrication and installation of the 
Architectural Copper that is located at: https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing‐
stormwater‐pollution/with‐new‐redevelopment/construction‐best‐practices/  (PUBLIC 
WORKS/BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
93 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – Construction Best Management Practices (BMPs) 
shall be implemented for reducing the volume of runoff and pollution in runoff to the 
maximum extent practicable during site excavation, grading, and construction. In 
accordance with the City’s standards, these BMPs will include, but will not be 
limited to: 
 
(A) Avoid or minimize excavation and grading activities during wet weather, unless the 
City approves a winter erosion control plan submitted by the applicant. 
 
(B) Use effective, site‐specific erosion and sediment control methods during the 
construction periods. Provide temporary cover of all disturbed surfaces to help control 
erosion during construction. Provide permanent cover as soon as is practical to stabilize 
the disturbed surfaces after construction has been completed. 
 
(C) Protect existing storm drain inlets in the project area from sedimentation with filter 
fabric fences gravel bags block and gravel filters. 
 
(D) Cover and stabilize stockpiled soil and materials with tarps, geotextile fabric, 
hydroseeding and/or erosion control blankets. 
 
(E) Install berms or silt fencing around stockpiled materials to prevent stormwater runoff 
from transporting sediment off‐site. 
 
(F) The project applicant shall provide a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) in 
compliance with Bay Area Stormwater Management Agencies Association (BASMAA) 
Blueprint for a Clean Bay Best Management Practices to Prevent Stormwater Pollution

--- page 51 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 27 of 43 
 
 
 
 
from Construction‐Related Activities. 
 
(G) The applicant shall perform all construction activities in accordance with the City’s 
Storm Water Management and Discharge Control Rules and Regulations (SMMC 7.39), and 
the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SMCWPPP) by reference. 
Detailed information can be located at: https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing‐
stormwater‐pollution/with‐new‐redevelopment/construction‐best‐practices/  
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
94 CONSTRUCTION WORKER PARKING – The applicant shall provide a construction‐parking 
plan that minimizes the effect of construction worker parking in the neighborhood and 
shall include an estimate of the number of workers that will be present on the site during 
the various phases of construction and indicate where sufficient off‐street parking will be 
utilized and identify any locations for off‐site material deliveries. Said plan shall be 
approved by the Director of Public Works or designee prior to issuance of City permits and 
shall be complied with at all times during construction. Failure to enforce the parking plan 
may result in suspension of the City permits. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
95 GROUND WATER DISCHARGE – In accordance with the Director of Public Works 
Groundwater Discharge Policy, discharge of contaminated groundwater to the sanitary 
sewer is only allowed on a temporary basis and will not be permitted for a period greater 
than 6 months. Discharges for longer than 6 months shall obtain an NPDES permit from 
the State Water Board to discharge to the storm drain system. Discharge of 
uncontaminated groundwater to the storm drain is permissible if the applicant can 
provide analytical data to support the claim. No discharge to the storm drain shall be 
allowed without prior approval from the Public Works Department. All discharges to the 
sanitary sewer (contaminated and uncontaminated) require a Waste Discharge Permit and 
shall comply with the City’s discharge limits. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
96 HOLIDAY CONSTRUCTION MORATORIUM – Due to concerns for businesses within the 
vicinity of Hillsdale Mall and within the Downtown area during the holiday season 
(Monday prior to Thanksgiving to January 1), there shall be no construction activities 
within the right‐of‐way which would create lane closures, eliminate parking, create 
pedestrian detours, or other activities that may create a major disturbance as determined 
by the Director of Public Works or designee. Exceptions to this condition shall be made in 
writing to the Public Works Director or designee. Prohibition on El Camino Real shall be 
along its entire length within the City limits. For Hillsdale Shopping Center, the

--- page 52 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 28 of 43 
 
 
 
 
construction prohibition streets shall include Hillsdale Boulevard between U.S. 101 and SR 
92, 31st Avenue between El Camino Real and Hacienda Street, and Edison Street and 
Hacienda Street in the vicinity of the shopping center. For purposes of this condition, the 
limits of the Downtown area shall be defined as: between El Camino Real on the west and 
Delaware Street on the east, Tilton Avenue on the north, and Fifth Avenue on the south. 
The prohibition shall also include the 3rd and 4th Avenue corridors between Delaware 
Street and U.S. 101. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
97 MATERIAL HAULING – For material delivery vehicles equal to, or larger than two‐axle, six‐
tire single unit truck (SU) size or larger as defined by FHWA Standards, the applicant shall 
submit a truck hauling route that conforms to City of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 
11.28.040 for the approval of the Director of Public Works or designee. The project 
sponsor shall require contractors to prohibit trucks from using “compression release 
engine brakes” on residential streets. The haul route for this project shall be: HWY 101, E. 
3rd Avenue, S. Claremont Street to E. 4th Avenue, or as approved by the Director of Public 
Works or designee. A letter from the applicant confirming the intention to use this hauling 
route shall be submitted to the Department of Public Works, and approved, prior to the 
issuance of any City permits. All material hauling activities including but not limited to, 
adherence to the approved route, hours of operation, staging of materials, dust control 
and street maintenance shall be the responsibility of the applicant. All storage and office 
trailers shall be kept off the public right‐of‐way. Tracking of dirt onto City streets and 
walks will not be allowed. Entry and exit from the site will use rock or rumble strips to 
prevent tracking. The applicant shall provide an approved method of cleaning tires and 
trimming loads on site. Any job related dirt and/or debris that impacts the public right of 
way shall be removed immediately. No wash down of dirt into storm drains is allowed. 
Use of a sweeper is permissible as long as it operates dry (no water used, only vacuum). 
All material hauling activities shall be done in accordance with applicable City ordinances 
and conditions of approval. Violation of such may be cause for suspension of work. 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
98 PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES – The following provision to control traffic 
congestion, noise, and dust shall be followed during site excavation, grading and 
construction: 
 
(A) Construction activities related to the issuance of any Public Works permit shall be 
restricted to the weekday between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Please note, however, that no 
work shall be allowed to take place within the City right‐of‐way after 5:00 p.m. In addition, 
no work being done under the issuance of a Public Works encroachment permit may be

--- page 53 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 29 of 43 
 
 
 
 
performed on the weekend unless prior approvals have been granted by Public Works. 
Earth haul and materials delivery to and from the site, including truck arrivals and 
departures to and from the site, will be prohibited between the weekday hours of 4:00 
p.m.   5:30 p.m. Signs outlining these restrictions shall be posted at conspicuous locations 
on site. The signs shall be per the City Standard Drawing for posting construction hours. 
The sign shall be kept free of graffiti at all times. Contact the Public Works Department to 
obtain sample City Standard sign outlining hours of operation. 
 
The allowed hours of Public Works construction activities may be waived or modified 
through an exemption, for limited periods, if the Director of Public Works or designee 
finds that: 
 
(i) The following criteria are met: 
 
(a) Permitting extended hours of construction will decrease the total time needed to 
complete the project thus mitigating the total amount of noise associated with the project 
as a whole; or 
 
(b) Permitting extended hours of construction are required to accommodate design or 
engineering requirements, such as a large concrete pour. Such a need would be 
determined by the project's design engineer and require approval of the Director of Public 
Works or designee.  
 
(c) An emergency situation exists where the construction work is necessary to correct an 
unsafe or dangerous condition resulting in obvious and eminent peril to public health and 
safety. If such a condition exists, the City may waive any of the remaining requirements 
outlined below. 
 
(ii) The exemption will not conflict with any other condition of approval required by the 
City to mitigate significant impacts. 
 
(iii) The contractor or owner of the property will notify residential and commercial 
occupants of property adjacent to the construction site of the hours of construction 
activity which may impact the area. This notification shall be provided three days prior to 
the start of the extended construction activity. 
 
(iv) The approved hours of construction activity will be posted at the construction site in a 
place and manner that can be easily viewed by any interested member of the public.

--- page 54 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 30 of 43 
 
 
 
 
The Director of Public Works or designee may revoke the exemption at any time if the 
contractor or owner of the property fails to abide by the conditions of exemption or if it is 
determined that the peace, comfort and tranquility of the occupants of adjacent 
residential or commercial properties are impaired because of the location and nature of 
the construction. The waiver application shall be submitted to the Public Works 
Construction Inspector ten (10) working days prior to the requested date of waiver. 
 
(B) All construction vehicles shall be properly maintained and equipped with exhaust 
mufflers that meet State standards. 
 
(C) Construction grading activity shall be discontinued in wind conditions that in the 
opinion of the Public Works Construction Inspector cause excessive neighborhood dust 
problems. Wash down of dirt and debris into storm drain systems will not be allowed. 
 
(D) Construction activities shall be scheduled so that paving and foundation placement 
begin immediately upon completion of grading operation. 
 
(E) All aggregate materials transported to and from the site shall be covered in accordance 
with Section 23114 of the California Vehicle Code during transit to and from the site. All 
haul trucks transporting soil, sand, or other loose material off‐site shall be covered. 
 
(F) Prior to issuance of any permit, the applicant shall submit any applicable pedestrian or 
traffic detour plans, to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works or designee, for any 
lane or sidewalk closures. The detour plan shall comply with Part 6, Temporary Traffic 
Control, of the State of California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), 
2012, and standard construction practices.  
 
(G) All exposed surfaces (e.g., parking areas, staging areas, soil piles, graded areas, and 
unpaved access roads) shall be watered two times per day. Newly disturbed soil surfaces 
shall be watered down regularly by a water‐trucks or by other approved method 
maintained on site during all grading operations. 
 
(H) All visible mud or dirt track‐out onto adjacent public roads shall be removed using wet 
power vacuum street sweepers at least once per day. The use of dry power sweeping is 
prohibited. 
 
(I) All vehicle speeds on unpaved roads shall be limited to 15 mph. 
 
(J) All roadways, driveways, and sidewalks to be paved shall be completed as soon as

--- page 55 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 31 of 43 
 
 
 
 
possible. Construction activities shall be scheduled so that paving and foundation 
placement begin immediately upon completion of grading operation. 
 
(K) Post a publicly visible sign with the telephone number and person to contact at the 
Lead Agency regarding dust complaints. This person shall respond and take corrective 
action within 48 hours. The Air District’s phone number shall also be visible to ensure 
compliance with applicable regulations. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the project permitted by this 
planning application occupies the premises. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
99 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE AT ALL TIMES – All physical 
improvements, uses, and operational requirements authorized by the approved planning 
application shall, at all times that the use permitted by this planning application occupies 
the premises, substantially conform with the approved planning application. This includes 
but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and other items submitted as 
part of the approved planning application. Any proposed modifications to the approved 
planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the proposed modifications. The 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee shall determine whether the 
proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved planning application, or 
whether a planning application modification is required to be submitted to permit the 
proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications.  
(PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
100 GROUND FLOOR INTERIOR VISIBILITY – Visibility into the building’s ground floor shall be 
maintained in conformance with the Central Claremont Sub Area of the Downtown Area 
Plan. Building occupants shall not cause obstructed interior views of activity through 
window film, furniture, equipment, or other visual clutter. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
City Attorney (PA) 
 
 
101 INDEMNIFICATION – The Applicant shall defend (with counsel approved by City), 
indemnify, and hold harmless the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents, from and against any claim, action, or proceeding (including without limitation any 
appeal or petition for review thereof) against the City or its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents, related to an approval of the Project, including without

--- page 56 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 32 of 43 
 
 
 
 
limitation any related application, permit, certification, condition, environmental 
determination, other approval, compliance or failure to comply with applicable laws and 
regulations, and/or processing methods (“Challenge”). The City may (but is not obligated 
to) defend such Challenge as the City, in its sole discretion, determines appropriate, all at 
the Applicant’s sole cost and expense. The Applicant shall bear any and all losses, 
damages, injuries, liabilities, costs, and expenses (including, without limitation, staff time 
and in‐house attorney fees on a fully‐loaded basis, attorney fees for outside legal counsel, 
expert witness fees, court costs, and other litigation expenses) arising out of or related to 
any Challenge (“Costs”), whether incurred by the Applicant, City, or awarded to any third 
party, and shall pay to the City upon demand any Costs incurred by the City. No 
modification of the Project, any application, permit, certification, condition, 
environmental determination, other approval, change in applicable laws and regulations, 
or change in processing methods shall alter the Applicant’s indemnity obligation. Per 
Government Code Section 66474.9, the Applicant’s indemnification obligation with 
respect to any Challenge concerning a subdivision (tentative, parcel, or final map 
application or approval) shall be limited to actions brought within the time period 
provided for in Government Code Section 66499.37, unless such time period is extended 
for any reason. The City shall promptly notify the Applicant of any such claim, action, or 
proceeding, and shall cooperate fully in the defense. (CITY ATTORNEY) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
102 PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.02.210‐Violations of 
Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of the conditions of approval is 
unlawful and will subject the applicant to the penalties set forth in Chapter 1.04‐General 
Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal Code as well as any other available legal remedies.  
(CITY ATTORNEY) 
 
 
 
 
 
Police Department (PA) 
 
 
103 PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS FOR TALL BUILDINGS, ACCESS AND SECURITY – The 
applicant shall allow 24 hour, 7 day per week access to the dedicated public safety 
communications radio server rack and antenna(s) for maintenance purposes at all times 
that the use permitted by this planning application occupies the premises. If the City 
installs radio equipment, applicant shall take reasonable measures to secure and 
safeguard City equipment from theft or vandalism. (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
104 SITE LIGHTING STANDARDS – Exterior security lighting in compliance with the Building 
Security Code “Exterior Security Lighting” (San Mateo Municipal Code Section 23.54.060) 
shall be provided and maintained at all times that the use permitted by this planning

--- page 57 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 33 of 43 
 
 
 
 
application occupies the premises. Site lighting shall comply with the requirement of an 
average illuminance of 1 foot‐candle, a minimum illuminance of 0.3 foot‐candle, and a 
uniformity ratio not to exceed 4:1 average to minimum. Light sources shall be capable of 
producing a “bright white” light with a color temperature between 3000K and 4000K and 
a color rendering index (CRI) of at least 65 unless otherwise approved.  This lighting 
standard is applicable to all parking lots, driveways, circulation areas, aisles, passageways, 
recesses, and grounds contiguous to all buildings. The lighting system shall be so designed 
as to limit light spill beyond property lines and to shield the light source from view from 
off site.  (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
105 VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS – The applicant shall install and operate for the life of 
the project a video surveillance system subject to the following requirements: 
 
(A) The information shall be maintained and retrievable for a minimum of 30 days.  The 
captured video material shall be accessible to investigating police personnel through some 
form of facility management during regular business hours.  The applicant shall provide 
proof of registration of the video surveillance camera system with the City through the 
City’s Neighborhood Eyes Security Team web form 
(https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/forms.aspx?FID=134). 
 
(B) Cameras shall be placed and maintained to view common areas of the property 
accessible to the public such as lobbies, parking lots, parking garages and entrances and 
exits to all parking garages, gates dividing different uses inside mixed‐use parking garages, 
driveways, circulation areas, aisles, passageways, recesses, and grounds contiguous to all 
buildings.  This condition is not intended to require Applicant to install pole mount 
cameras on the property, cameras to view these areas may be installed on the building 
facing out. 
 
(C) The cameras in this system shall be megapixel or better CCTV cameras that shall be 
capable of operating in all lighting conditions anticipated at project completion.  Cameras 
viewing locations intended to allow routine vehicle passage onto the sites and/or garages 
shall additionally be capable of capturing the front and rear of all entering and exiting 
vehicles that use the sites and/or garages, and be of sufficient quality to identify the make 
and model of vehicles accessing the site, clearly read both front and rear license plates of 
vehicles, and clearly depict faces of occupants through the front windshield. (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA)

--- page 58 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 34 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
106 POST CONSTRUCTION BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – In accordance with the 
City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control Rules and Regulations, San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, and the San Mateo Countywide Stormwater Management 
Plan (SWMP) by reference, the applicant shall: 
 
(A) Owner/occupant shall inspect private stormwater treatment devices and GI features in 
the public right‐of‐way at least two (2) times per year and sweep parking lots immediately 
prior to and once during the storm season. 
 
(B) The applicant shall pay a fee on a yearly basis for cost associated with, but not limited 
to, City inspection of the private stormwater treatment facilities, emergency maintenance 
needed to protect public health or watercourses, and facility replacement or repair in the 
event that the treatment facility is no longer able to meet performance standards or has 
deteriorated. The fee shall be based upon the Comprehensive Fee Schedule, established 
by the City Council, in effect at the time. 
 
(C) Label new and redeveloped storm drain inlets with the phrase “No Dumping – Drains 
to Bay” plaques to alert the public to the destination of storm water and to prevent direct 
discharge of pollutants into the storm drain. Template ordering information is available 
from the Department of Public Works. 
 
(D) All process equipment, oils fuels, solvents, coolants, fertilizers, pesticides, and similar 
chemical products, as well as petroleum based wastes, tallow, and grease planned for 
storage outdoors shall be stored in covered containers at all times. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
107 TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM) PLAN – Once implemented, the 
Transportation Demand Management Plan shall be monitored and assessed annually for 
the occupied life of the development. The program shall be recorded with the County.  
The assessment of compliance with the Transportation Demand Management Plan, 
including mode split survey results, shall be submitted to Public Works by the end of every 
calendar year (December 31st).  
 
 
 
 
The following conditions are MITIGATION MEASURES that mitigate adverse environmental effects 
identified in the environmental document. Monitoring and reporting procedures are contained 
within each condition. A change in the condition of approval may affect the validity of the current 
environmental document, and a new or amended environmental document may be required. 
 
Planning Division (PA)

--- page 59 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 35 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
108 COMPLIANCE WITH MMRP – The Mitigation Measures identified in conditions of approval 
below and in the adopted Mitigation Monitoring And Reporting Program (MMRP) shall be 
completed in accordance with the timelines for project construction and operation within 
each mitigation measure. The applicant shall provide documentation demonstrating 
compliance to the Planning Division. In the event of any inconsistencies between the 
mitigation measures as set forth in the Mitigated Negative Declaration and the MMRP, the 
MMRP shall control. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
109 MM BIO‐1.1 – Prior to the issuance of the first building permit, grading permit, or site 
development permit for tree removal (whichever occurs first), the applicant shall submit a 
phasing plan to the City’s Planning Division with a schedule of both on‐site and off‐site 
demolition and construction activities to review the activities that may occur during the 
nesting season subject to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or 
his/her designee. The nesting season for most birds, including most raptors in the San 
Francisco Bay area, extends from February 1 through August 31 (inclusive). (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
110 MM BIO‐1.2 – If any tree removal, demolition, or construction activities are scheduled 
during the nesting season, between February 1 and August 31 (inclusive), the applicant 
shall engage a qualified ornithologist to complete a pre‐construction survey for nesting 
birds to ensure that no nests are disturbed during demolition or construction. During this 
survey, the ornithologist shall inspect all trees and other possible nesting habitats 
immediately adjacent to the construction areas for nests. This survey shall be completed 
no more than 14 days prior to the initiation of any construction or demolition activities 
during the early part of the breeding season (February 1 through April 30 inclusive) and no 
more than 30 days prior to the initiation of these activities during the late part of the 
breeding season (May 1 through August 31 inclusive).  
 
If an active nest is found sufficiently close to work areas to be disturbed by construction 
(typically 300 feet for raptors and 100 feet for other species), the ornithologist, in 
consultation with the California Department of Fish and Wildlife, shall determine the 
extent of a construction free buffer zone to be established around the nest to ensure that 
bird nests shall not be disturbed during project construction. 
 
Prior to each phase of demolition and construction, the ornithologist shall submit a report 
identifying designated buffer zones to the City’s Planning Division subject to the 
satisfaction of the Director of Community Development, or his/her designee. (PLANNING)

--- page 60 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 36 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
111 MM CUL‐2.1 – Prior to the issuance of any demolition, grading or building permit involving 
ground‐disturbing activities (whichever occurs first), the project applicant shall hire a 
qualified Professional Archaeologist and Native American Monitor to develop a Worker’s 
Environmental Awareness Program (WEAP) to train the construction crew on the legal 
requirements for the treatment of cultural resources as well as procedures to follow in the 
event of a cultural resources discovery. This training program shall be given to the crew 
before ground disturbing work commences and shall include handouts to be given to new 
workers. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
112 MM CUL‐2.2 – The applicant shall note on all construction plans that require ground 
disturbing activities that there is a potential for exposing buried cultural resources 
including prehistoric Native American burials. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
113 MM CUL‐2.3 – A Professional Archaeologist and Native American Monitor shall be present 
during all ground‐disturbing activities. If any prehistoric or significant historic period 
cultural materials are exposed during construction grading and/or excavation whether on‐
site or off‐site, the applicant shall halt all construction activities within 50 feet of the find, 
and the Professional Archaeologist shall provide identification, evaluation, and further 
recommendations consistent with CEQA and City of San Mateo requirements. 
 
If the Professional Archaeologist determines that any cultural resources exposed during 
construction constitute a historical resource and/or unique archaeological resource under 
CEQA, the applicant shall notify the Community Development Director, or his/her 
designee, and provide avoidance, preservation in‐place, recordation, additional 
archaeological testing and data recovery measures to reduce impacts to a less than 
significant level. The applicant shall also complete a formal Archaeological Monitoring Plan 
(AMP) and/or Archaeological Treatment Plan (ATP) that includes data recovery if 
significant archaeological deposits are exposed during ground disturbing construction. The 
applicant shall submit the AMP and/or ATP to the City’s Planning Division subject to the 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. Development 
and implementation of the AMP and ATP and treatment of significant cultural resources 
will be determined by the applicant in consultation with the California Office of Historic 
Preservation and the City of San Mateo. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
114 MM CUL‐3.1 – In the event that human remains are discovered during excavation and/or 
grading whether on‐site or within the public right‐of‐way, the applicant shall halt all 
activity within a 50‐foot radius of the find and notify the Community Development

--- page 61 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 37 of 43 
 
 
 
 
Director, or his/her designee. The applicant shall also immediately notify San Mateo 
County Coroner to have a determination made as to whether the remains are of Native 
American origin or whether an investigation into the cause of death is required. 
Treatment of human remains and any associated or unassociated funerary objects 
discovered during any soil‐disturbing activity within the project site shall comply with 
applicable State laws (i.e., Native American burials, Chapter 1492, Section 7050.5 to the 
Health and Safety Code, Sections 5097.94, 5097.98 and 5097.99 of the Public Resources 
Code). If the remains are determined to be Native American, the Coroner will notify the 
Native American Heritage Commission (NAHC) immediately. Once the NAHC identifies the 
most likely descendants, the descendants will make recommendations regarding proper 
burial, which will be implemented in accordance with Section 15064.5(e) of the CEQA 
Guidelines. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
115 MM HAZ‐2.1 – To reduce the potential for construction worker and nearby sensitive 
receptor exposure to hazardous materials (Asbestos Containing Materials (ACMs), lead‐
based paints, and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs)), the applicant shall implement the 
following measures prior to and during demolition and construction:  
 
(A) Prior to issuance of a demolition permit, the applicant shall submit a PCB Screening 
Assessment Form to the Building Division. If on‐site buildings do contain PCBs that exceed 
threshold limits, the applicant shall follow applicable federal and state laws, which 
includes reporting to the Environmental Protection Agency, Regional Water Quality 
Control Board, and Department of Toxic Substances Control, who may require additional 
sampling and abatement of PCBs. As required under the Toxic Substances Control Act 
(TSCA), all building materials containing PCBs at levels greater than 50 parts per million 
(ppm) shall be removed upon discovery. If demolition is likely to impact such materials, 
they must be properly characterized by an Environmental Professional (as defined in Title 
40 of the California Code of Federal Regulations) and removed in accordance with TSCA 
regulations.  
 
(B) In conformance with local, state, and federal laws, the applicant shall engage a 
qualified professional to complete an asbestos building survey and a lead‐based paint 
survey to determine the presence of ACMs and/or lead‐based paint on the structures 
proposed for demolition prior to issuance of a demolition permit. Written findings of the 
surveys shall be submitted to the Building Division subject to the satisfaction of the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee.  
 
(C) The applicant shall retain a registered asbestos abatement contractor to remove and

--- page 62 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 38 of 43 
 
 
 
 
dispose of all potentially friable asbestos‐containing materials, in accordance with the 
National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) guidelines, prior to the 
issuance a demolition permit. The applicant shall conduct all construction activities in 
accordance with California Division of Occupational Safety and Health (Cal/OSHA) 
standards, contained in Title 8 of the California Code of Regulations (CCR), Section 1529, 
to protect workers from exposure to asbestos. Materials containing more than one 
percent asbestos are also subject to Bay Area Quality Management District (BAAQMD) 
regulations. 
 
(D) Prior to any demolition activities, the applicant shall remove all building materials 
containing lead‐based paint in accordance with Cal/OSHA Lead in Construction Standard, 
Title 8, CCR 1532.1, including employee training, employee air monitoring and dust 
control. The applicant shall dispose any debris or soil containing lead‐based paint or 
coatings at landfills that meet acceptance criteria for the waste being disposed. 
 
(E) Prior to the issuance of a demolition permit, the applicant shall obtain a permit from 
the San Mateo County Environmental Health Department (CUPA) to remove the fuel 
underground storage tanks (USTs), dispensers, associated product piping, and 
underground hoists at the onsite ARCO gasoline service station. Proof of obtainment of 
this permit shall be submitted to the City’s Building Division prior to the issuance of a 
demolition permit. Removal activities and compliance soil sampling will be conducted by 
an environmental consultant and environmental contractor under the oversight of the 
CUPA. If stained soils, free product, and/or elevated petroleum hydrocarbon 
concentrations are detected in soil at concentrations that exceed applicable ESLs 
established by the SF‐RWQCB, over‐excavation of the contaminated soil may occur at the 
time of the UST/piping removal, at the direction of the CUPA, and/or potentially during 
the construction excavation for the subsurface garage. 
 
(F) If previously unknown ‘orphan’ USTs or piping are encountered during construction 
excavation activities for the underground parking garage, the applicant shall halt all work, 
notify the City’s Building Division and CUPA, and obtain additional permits to remove the 
encountered tanks and/or piping. Removals and compliance sampling will be under the 
oversight of the CUPA. The removal of known or new USTs found during construction, 
along with any contaminated soil that is removed at that time will reported to the CUPA in 
a UST removal report. Remediation Excavation of soil for the construction of the building 
footing will remove and properly dispose of contaminated soils that may be present 
beneath the site. If soil contamination at concentrations that exceed applicable ESLs is 
observed at the base of the construction related excavation, additional localized 
excavation(s) may occur as a contingency. The excavation depth will likely be limited by

--- page 63 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 39 of 43 
 
 
 
 
the elevation of the water table at the time of construction dewatering and is anticipated 
to be at most 2 or 3 extra vertical feet. Oversight of remediation shall be provided by the 
GPP. Implementation of the RMP and SMP will be provided in a Construction Completion 
Report submitted to the GPP. 
(PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
116 MM HAZ‐2.2 – Prior to the issuance of any grading or building permit involving excavation, 
shoring, foundation, or the superstructure (whichever occurs first), the applicant shall 
obtain a Phase II Environmental Site Assessment (ESA) following building demolition and 
site clearance that investigates current soil and soil vapor conditions. Preparation of the 
Phase II ESA shall be completed in accordance with the following provisions: 
 
(A) Prior to excavation, soil and soil vapor samples shall be collected by an Environmental 
Professional (as defined in Title 40 of the California Code of Federal Regulations) to pre‐
characterize soil for waste characterization and soil management purposes. Depth discrete 
soil samples shall be collected at various depths from 0.5 feet below ground surface (bgs) 
to the maximum depth of the building footing excavation and analyzed for constituents 
that may be present, such as metals, volatile organic compounds (VOCs), and petroleum 
hydrocarbons. The soil borings shall be advanced by an environmental professional and an 
environmental drilling contractor under permit and oversight of the San Mateo County 
Environmental Health Services (SMCEHS) Groundwater Protection Program (GPP).  
 
(B) Additionally, temporary soil vapor probes will be installed for collection of soil gas 
samples to establish if there is a vapor intrusion risk to the occupants of the future 
building from off‐site sources of PCE and petroleum products and/or from on‐site 
historical gasoline service station and auto repair activities, and subsequently, to 
determine if vapor intrusion mitigation is warranted. If, for example, soil vapor and/or soil 
samples indicate the need for vapor intrusion mitigation, the selected remedy may consist 
of a vapor intrusion barrier and associated subsurface vapor collection and venting 
system. The proposed vapor intrusion mitigation will be provided to the SMCEHS for 
review and approval. 
 
(C) The applicant shall submit the Phase II ESA to the San Mateo County Environmental 
Health Services (SMCEHS) and to the City’s Planning Division subject to the satisfaction of 
the Community Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to issuance of any 
demolition, grading, or building permit involving excavation, shoring, foundation, or the 
superstructure (whichever occurs first).  
(PLANNING)

--- page 64 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 40 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
117 MM HAZ‐2.3 – Based on the results of the Phase II ESA, an Environmental Professional (as 
defined in Title 40 of the California Code of Federal Regulations) shall prepare a 
Redevelopment Management Plan (RMP) that shall include a Soil Management Plan (SMP) 
that describes remediation and/or mitigation actions, as necessary. If soil contamination 
at concentrations is detected at the base of the construction related excavation, grading, 
or utility trenching that exceeds applicable environmental screening levels (ESLs) 
established by the San Francisco Regional Water Quality Control Board (SF‐RWQCB), 
additional localized excavations may occur as a contingency. Oversight of remediation 
shall be provided by the San Mateo County Environmental Health Services (SMCEHS). 
Proof of implementation of the RMP and SMP shall be provided in a Construction 
Completion Report submitted to the SMCEHS. Proof of SMCEHS approval shall be 
submitted to the Community Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to the 
issuance of any demolition, grading, or building permit involving excavation, shoring, 
foundation, or the superstructure (whichever occurs first). (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
118 MM HAZ‐2.4 – Prior to the issuance of any grading or building permit involving excavation, 
shoring, foundation, or the superstructure (whichever occurs first), the applicant shall 
obtain a permit from the San Mateo County Environmental Health Services (SMCEHS) to 
remove the two underground hydraulic lifts at the auto repair facility. Removal activities 
and compliance soil sampling shall be conducted by an Environmental Professional (as 
defined in Title 40 of the California Code of Federal Regulations) under the oversight of 
the SMCEHS. If stained soils, free product, and/or elevated petroleum hydrocarbon 
concentrations are detected in soil at concentrations that exceed applicable 
environmental screening levels (ESLs) established by the San Francisco Regional Water 
Quality Control Board (SF‐RWQCB), over‐excavation of the contaminated soil may occur at 
the time of the hydraulic lift removal, at the direction of the SMCEHS, and/or potentially 
during the construction grading and trenching. If previously unknown orphan 
underground storage tanks (USTs) or piping are encountered during project construction, 
work will stop, the SMCEHS will be notified, and additional permits will be obtained to 
remove the encountered USTs and/or piping. Removals and compliance sampling will be 
under the oversight of the SMCEHS. The removal of the known hydraulic lifts and any USTs 
found during construction, along with any contaminated soil that is removed at that time, 
will reported to the SMCEHS in a Removal Report. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
119 MM NOI‐1.1 – The applicant and contractor shall place and operate construction 
equipment to minimize the impact of construction noise on existing sensitive receptors.

--- page 65 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 41 of 43 
 
 
 
 
Construction equipment shall be well‐maintained and used judiciously to be as quiet as 
possible. Additionally, the applicant and contractor shall incorporate the following best 
management practices to reduce noise from construction activities on nearby sensitive 
land uses: 
 
(A) The applicant or their designated contractor shall prepare a detailed construction plan 
identifying the schedule for major noise‐generating construction activities. The 
construction plan shall identify a procedure for coordination with adjacent residential land 
uses so that construction activities can be scheduled to minimize noise disturbance. This 
construction plan shall be submitted to the Building Division subject to the review and 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee prior to the 
issuance of a grading or demolition permit. 
 
(B) The applicant or their designated contractor shall designate a “disturbance 
coordinator” who would be responsible for responding to any complaints about 
construction noise. The disturbance coordinator shall determine the cause of the noise 
complaint (e.g., bad muffler, etc.) and shall require that measures be implemented to 
reduce the noise impact. The applicant or their designated contractor shall conspicuously 
post a telephone number for the disturbance coordinator at the construction site and 
include it in the notice sent to neighbors regarding the construction schedule. 
 
(C) Construction staging areas shall be established at locations that will create the greatest 
distance between the construction‐related noise sources and noise‐sensitive receptors 
nearest the project site during all project construction.  
 
(D) Use of exceptionally loud equipment such as jackhammers and concrete saws within 
35 feet of shared property lines shall be prohibited. 
 
(E) All internal combustion engine‐driven equipment shall be equipped with intake and 
exhaust mufflers that are in good condition and appropriate for the equipment. 
 
(F) Idling of internal combustion engines for longer than five minutes in duration shall be 
strictly prohibited 
. 
(G) Stationary noise‐generating equipment, such as air compressors or portable power 
generators, shall be locates as far as possible from sensitive receptors and property lines. 
If they must be located within 35 feet of receptors and property lines, adequate muffling 
(with temporary barriers where feasible and appropriate) shall be used to reduce noise 
levels at the adjacent sensitive receptors to 90 dBA. All temporary barriers used shall be

--- page 66 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 42 of 43 
 
 
 
 
eight feet in height at minimum, continuous from grade to top, with no cracks or gaps, and 
have a minimum surface density of three pounds per square foot (e.g., one‐inch thick 
wood fence boards). 
 
(H) Construction contractors and subcontractors shall utilize “quiet” air compressors and 
other stationary noise sources where technology exists. 
 
(I) Control noise from construction workers’ radios to a point where they are not audible 
at residences within 50 feet of the project site. 
 (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
120 MM NOI‐2.1 – The applicant shall implement a construction vibration monitoring plan to 
document conditions prior to, during, and after vibration generating construction 
activities. All monitoring plan tasks shall be undertaken under the direction of a licensed 
Professional Engineer in the State of California. Initial placement of sensors, data, and 
corrective actions to be reviewed by a licensed Professional Structural Engineer in the 
State of California in accordance with industry‐accepted standard methods. The 
construction vibration monitoring plan shall be submitted to the Building Division subject 
to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to 
issuance of any demolition, grading, or building permits (whichever occurs first) and shall 
include: 
 
(A) A description of measurement methods, equipment used, calibration certificates, and 
graphics as required to clearly identify vibration‐monitoring locations. 
 
(B) A list of all construction equipment to be used and the anticipated time of duration 
shall be submitted by the contractor. This list shall be used to identify equipment and 
activities that would potentially generate substantial vibration and to define the level of 
effort required for continuous vibration monitoring. 
 
(C) Document conditions at all structures located within 60 feet of construction prior to, 
during, and after vibration generating construction activities. Perform a photo survey, 
elevation survey, and crack monitoring survey prior to any construction activity, at the end 
of each phase of construction, and after project completion, and shall include internal and 
external crack monitoring in structures, settlement, and distress, and shall document the 
condition of foundations, walls and other structural elements in the interior and exterior 
of said structures. The results of each survey shall be submitted to the Director of 
Community Development, or his/her designee.

--- page 67 ---
PA‐2021‐081, 435 E. 3RD AVE., SPAR + SDPA 
As approved on __________  
Page 43 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
(D) A plan to identify structures where and when monitoring would be conducted. 
Construction contingencies shall be identified for when vibration levels approach 
applicable limits.  
 
(E) The applicant or their designated contractor shall identify a “disturbance coordinator” 
responsible for registering and investigating claims of excessive vibration. The disturbance 
coordinator shall determine the cause of the complaint and shall require that measures be 
implemented to reduce the vibration impact. The applicant or their designated contractor 
shall conspicuously post a telephone number for the disturbance coordinator at the 
construction site and include it in the notice sent to neighbors regarding the construction 
schedule. 
 
(F) Additionally, the construction vibration monitoring plan shall include, but not be 
limited to, the following measures: 
 
a. Use of clam shovels and vibratory rollers shall be prohibited within 60 feet of the 
buildings located at 273 South Railroad Street. Alternatively, a Caterpillar model CP433E 
vibratory compactor or smaller model may be used such that vibration levels would not 
exceed applicable vibration limits.  
 
b. Alternative methods for breaking up existing pavement, such as a pavement grinder, 
shall be used instead of dropping objects within 60 feet of adjacent buildings. 
 
c. If vibration levels approach limits, suspend construction and implement contingency 
measures to either lower vibration levels or secure the affected structures. 
 
(G) If the post‐project completion survey (refer to MM CUL‐2.1D) identifies any damage 
caused by construction‐generated vibration, the applicant shall be responsible for 
completing or funding the necessary repairs to restore the damaged structure to pre‐
construction conditions. Damage to the NRHP eligible resource at 273 South Railroad 
Avenue shall be repaired in accordance with the Secretary of Interior Standards. 
(PLANNING)

--- page 68 ---
EXHIBIT B: 
 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
435 East 3rd Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
PA-2021-081 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO  
 
October 2022

--- page 69 ---
P R E F A C E 
 
Section 21081 of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requires a Lead Agency to adopt a Mitigation Monitoring and 
Reporting Program whenever it approves a project for which measures have been required to mitigate or avoid significant effects on the 
environment. The purpose of the monitoring and reporting program is to ensure compliance with the mitigation measures during project 
implementation. 
 
The Initial Study for the 435 East 3rd Avenue Mixed-Use Project concluded that the implementation of the project could result in 
significant effects on the environment and mitigation measures were incorporated into the proposed project or are required as a condition 
of project approval.  This Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program addresses those measures in terms of how and when they will be 
implemented. 
 
This document does not discuss those subjects for which the Initial Study concluded that the impacts from implementation of the project 
would be less than significant and for which no mitigation measures would be required.

--- page 70 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 1 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 
435 EAST 3RD AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-081) 
Mitigation 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
Mitigation Measures 
BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES 
MM BIO-1.1: 
Prior to the issuance of the first building permit, grading permit, or 
site development permit for tree removal (whichever occurs first), the 
applicant shall submit a phasing plan to the City’s Planning Division 
with a schedule of both on-site and off-site demolition and 
construction activities to review the activities that may occur during 
the nesting season subject to the satisfaction of the Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee. The nesting season for 
most birds, including most raptors in the San Francisco Bay area, 
extends from February 1 through August 31 (inclusive). 
 
MM BIO-1.2: 
(A) If any tree removal, demolition, or construction activities are 
scheduled during the nesting season, between February 1 and August 
31 (inclusive), the applicant shall engage a qualified ornithologist to 
complete a pre-construction survey for nesting birds to ensure that no 
nests are disturbed during demolition or construction. During this 
survey, the ornithologist shall inspect all trees and other possible 
nesting habitats immediately adjacent to the construction areas for 
nests. This survey shall be completed no more than 14 days prior to 
the initiation of any construction or demolition activities during the 
early part of the breeding season (February 1 through April 30 
inclusive) and no more than 30 days prior to the initiation of these 
activities during the late part of the breeding season (May 1 through 
August 31 inclusive).  
 
 
If an active nest is found sufficiently close to work areas to be 
disturbed by construction (typically 300 feet for raptors and 100 feet 
MM BIO-1.1: 
Prior to the 
issuance of the 
first building 
permit or site 
development 
permit for tree 
removal. 
 
MM BIO-1.2: (A) 
No more than 14 
days prior to the 
initiation of any 
construction or 
demolition 
activities during 
the early part of 
the breeding 
season (February 
1 through April 30 
inclusive) and no 
more than 30 days 
prior to the 
initiation of these 
activities during 
the late part of the 
Project Applicant;  
Project 
Contractor; 
Project 
Ornithologist 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee

--- page 71 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 2 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 
435 EAST 3RD AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-081) 
Mitigation 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
for other species), the ornithologist, in consultation with the California 
Department of Fish and Wildlife, shall determine the extent of a 
construction free buffer zone to be established around the nest to 
ensure that bird nests shall not be disturbed during project 
construction. 
 
 
(B) Prior to each phase of demolition and construction, the 
ornithologist shall submit a report identifying designated buffer zones 
to the City’s Planning Division subject to the satisfaction of the 
Director of Community Development, or his/her designee. 
 
breeding season 
(May 1 through 
August 31 
inclusive). 
 
(B) Prior to each 
phase of 
demolition and 
construction 
CULTURAL RESOURCES 
MM CUL-2.1: 
Prior to the issuance of any demolition, grading or building permit 
involving ground-disturbing activities (whichever occurs first), the 
project applicant shall hire a qualified Professional Archaeologist 
and Native American Monitor to develop a Worker’s 
Environmental Awareness Program (WEAP) to train the 
construction crew on the legal requirements for the treatment of 
cultural resources as well as procedures to follow in the event of a 
cultural resources discovery. This training program shall be given 
to the crew before ground disturbing work commences and shall 
include handouts to be given to new workers. 
 
MM CUL-2.2: 
The applicant shall note on all construction plans that require 
ground disturbing activities that there is a potential for exposing 
buried cultural resources including prehistoric Native American 
burials. 
 
Prior to the 
issuance of any 
building permit 
involving 
demolition, 
grading or 
building permit 
involving ground-
disturbing 
activities.  
Project Applicant; 
Professional 
Archaeologist; 
Native American 
Monitor 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee

--- page 72 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 3 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 
435 EAST 3RD AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-081) 
Mitigation 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
MM CUL-2.3: 
A Professional Archaeologist and Native American Monitor shall 
be present during all ground-disturbing activities. If any 
prehistoric or significant historic period cultural materials are 
exposed during construction grading and/or excavation whether 
on-site or off-site, the applicant shall halt all construction 
activities within 50 feet of the find, and the Professional 
Archaeologist shall provide identification, evaluation, and further 
recommendations consistent with CEQA and City of San Mateo 
requirements. 
 
If the Professional Archaeologist determines that any cultural 
resources exposed during construction constitute a historical 
resource and/or unique archaeological resource under CEQA, the 
applicant shall notify the Community Development Director, or 
his/her designee, and provide avoidance, preservation in-place, 
recordation, additional archaeological testing and data recovery 
measures to reduce impacts to a less than significant level. The 
applicant shall also complete a formal Archaeological Monitoring 
Plan (AMP) and/or Archaeological Treatment Plan (ATP) that 
includes data recovery if significant archaeological deposits are 
exposed during ground disturbing construction. The applicant 
shall submit the AMP and/or ATP to the City’s Planning Division 
subject to the satisfaction of the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee. Development and implementation of 
the AMP and ATP and treatment of significant cultural resources 
will be determined by the applicant in consultation with the 
California Office of Historic Preservation and the City of San 
Mateo.

--- page 73 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 4 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 
435 EAST 3RD AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-081) 
Mitigation 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
MM CUL-3.1: 
In the event that human remains are discovered during excavation 
and/or grading whether on-site or within the public right-of-way, 
the applicant shall halt all activity within a 50-foot radius of the 
find and notify the Community Development Director, or his/her 
designee. The applicant shall also immediately notify San Mateo 
County Coroner to have a determination made as to whether the 
remains are of Native American origin or whether an investigation 
into the cause of death is required. Treatment of human remains 
and any associated or unassociated funerary objects discovered 
during any soil-disturbing activity within the project site shall 
comply with applicable State laws (i.e., Native American burials, 
Chapter 1492, Section 7050.5 to the Health and Safety Code, 
Sections 5097.94, 5097.98 and 5097.99 of the Public Resources 
Code). If the remains are determined to be Native American, the 
Coroner will notify the Native American Heritage Commission 
(NAHC) immediately. Once the NAHC identifies the most likely 
descendants, the descendants will make recommendations 
regarding proper burial, which will be implemented in accordance 
with Section 15064.5(e) of the CEQA Guidelines.   
 
During 
construction 
Project Applicant; 
Project 
Contractor;  
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
San Mateo 
County Coroner 
 
Native American 
Heritage 
Commission 
HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS 
MM HAZ-2.1:  
To reduce the potential for construction worker and nearby sensitive 
receptor exposure to hazardous materials (Asbestos Containing 
Materials (ACMs), lead-based paints, and polychlorinated biphenyls 
(PCBs)), the applicant shall implement the following measures prior 
to and during demolition and construction: 
 
Prior to issuance of 
any demolition 
permits 
Project Applicant; 
Project 
Contractors   
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee

--- page 74 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 5 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 
435 EAST 3RD AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-081) 
Mitigation 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
(A) Prior to issuance of a demolition permit, the applicant shall submit 
a PCB Screening Assessment Form to the Building Division. If 
on-site buildings do contain PCBs that exceed threshold limits, the 
applicant shall follow applicable federal and state laws, which 
includes reporting to the Environmental Protection Agency, 
Regional Water Quality Control Board, and Department of Toxic 
Substances Control, who may require additional sampling and 
abatement of PCBs. As required under the Toxic Substances 
Control Act (TSCA), all building materials containing PCBs at 
levels greater than 50 parts per million (ppm) shall be removed 
upon discovery. If demolition is likely to impact such materials, 
they must be properly characterized by an Environmental 
Professional (as defined in Title 40 of the California Code of 
Federal Regulations) and removed in accordance with TSCA 
regulations.  
(B) In conformance with local, state, and federal laws, the applicant 
shall engage a qualified professional to complete an asbestos 
building survey and a lead-based paint survey to determine the 
presence of ACMs and/or lead-based paint on the structures 
proposed for demolition prior to issuance of a demolition permit. 
Written findings of the surveys shall be submitted to the Building 
Division subject to the satisfaction of the Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee.  
(C) The applicant shall retain a registered asbestos abatement 
contractor to remove and dispose of all potentially friable 
asbestos-containing materials, in accordance with the National 
Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) 
guidelines, prior to the issuance a demolition permit. The 
San Mateo 
County 
Environmental 
Health 
Department

--- page 75 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 6 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 
435 EAST 3RD AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-081) 
Mitigation 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
applicant shall conduct all construction activities in accordance 
with California Division of Occupational Safety and Health 
(Cal/OSHA) standards, contained in Title 8 of the California Code 
of Regulations (CCR), Section 1529, to protect workers from 
exposure to asbestos. Materials containing more than one percent 
asbestos are also subject to Bay Area Quality Management 
District (BAAQMD) regulations. 
(D) Prior to any demolition activities, the applicant shall remove all 
building materials containing lead-based paint in accordance with 
Cal/OSHA Lead in Construction Standard, Title 8, CCR 1532.1, 
including employee training, employee air monitoring and dust 
control. The applicant shall dispose any debris or soil containing 
lead-based paint or coatings at landfills that meet acceptance 
criteria for the waste being disposed. 
(E) Prior to the issuance of a demolition permit, the applicant shall 
obtain a permit from the San Mateo County Environmental Health 
Department (CUPA) to remove the fuel underground storage tanks 
(USTs), dispensers, associated product piping, and underground 
hoists at the onsite ARCO gasoline service station. Proof of 
obtainment of this permit shall be submitted to the City’s Building 
Division prior to the issuance of a demolition permit. Removal 
activities and compliance soil sampling will be conducted by an 
environmental consultant and environmental contractor under the 
oversight of the CUPA. If stained soils, free product, and/or 
elevated petroleum hydrocarbon concentrations are detected in 
soil at concentrations that exceed applicable ESLs established by 
the SF-RWQCB, over-excavation of the contaminated soil may 
occur at the time of the UST/piping removal, at the direction of

--- page 76 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 7 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 
435 EAST 3RD AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-081) 
Mitigation 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
the CUPA, and/or potentially during the construction excavation 
for the subsurface garage. 
(F) If previously unknown ‘orphan’ USTs or piping are encountered 
during construction excavation activities for the underground 
parking garage, the applicant shall halt all work, notify the City’s 
Building Division and CUPA, and obtain additional permits to 
remove the encountered tanks and/or piping. Removals and 
compliance sampling will be under the oversight of the CUPA. 
The removal of known or new USTs found during construction, 
along with any contaminated soil that is removed at that time will 
reported to the CUPA in a UST removal report. Remediation 
Excavation of soil for the construction of the building footing will 
remove and properly dispose of contaminated soils that may be 
present beneath the site. If soil contamination at concentrations 
that exceed applicable ESLs is observed at the base of the 
construction related excavation, additional localized excavation(s) 
may occur as a contingency. The excavation depth will likely be 
limited by the elevation of the water table at the time of 
construction dewatering and is anticipated to be at most 2 or 3 
extra vertical feet. Oversight of remediation shall be provided by 
the GPP. Implementation of the RMP and SMP will be provided 
in a Construction Completion Report submitted to the GPP.

--- page 77 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 8 
MM HAZ-2.2:  
Prior to the issuance of any grading or building permit involving 
excavation, shoring, foundation, or the superstructure (whichever 
occurs first), the applicant shall obtain a Phase II Environmental 
Site Assessment (ESA) following building demolition and site 
clearance that investigates current soil and soil vapor conditions. 
Preparation of the Phase II ESA shall be completed in accordance 
with the following provisions: 
 
(A) Prior to excavation, soil and soil vapor samples shall be 
collected by an Environmental Professional (as defined in 
Title 40 of the California Code of Federal Regulations) to 
pre-characterize soil for waste characterization and soil 
management purposes. Depth discrete soil samples shall 
be collected at various depths from 0.5 feet below ground 
surface (bgs) to the maximum depth of the building 
footing excavation and analyzed for constituents that may 
be present, such as metals, volatile organic compounds 
(VOCs), and petroleum hydrocarbons. The soil borings 
shall be advanced by an environmental professional and 
an environmental drilling contractor under permit and 
oversight of the San Mateo County Environmental Health 
Services (SMCEHS) Groundwater Protection Program 
(GPP).  
(B) Additionally, temporary soil vapor probes will be installed 
for collection of soil gas samples to establish if there is a 
vapor intrusion risk to the occupants of the future building 
from off-site sources of PCE and petroleum products 
and/or from on-site historical gasoline service station and 
auto repair activities, and subsequently, to determine if 
vapor intrusion mitigation is warranted. If, for example, 
soil vapor and/or soil samples indicate the need for vapor 
intrusion mitigation, the selected remedy may consist of a 
vapor intrusion barrier and associated subsurface vapor 
collection and venting system. The proposed vapor 
Prior to the 
issuance of any 
grading or building 
permit involving 
excavation, 
shoring, 
foundation, or the 
superstructure 
Project Applicant; 
Project 
Contractor; 
Environmental 
Professional 
 
 
 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
San Mateo 
County 
Environmental 
Health 
Department

--- page 78 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 9 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 
435 EAST 3RD AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-081) 
Mitigation 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
intrusion mitigation will be provided to the SMCEHS for 
review and approval. 
(C) The applicant shall submit the Phase II ESA to the San 
Mateo County Environmental Health Services (SMCEHS) 
and to the City’s Planning Division subject to the 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or 
his/her designee, prior to issuance of any demolition, 
grading, or building permit involving excavation, shoring, 
foundation, or the superstructure (whichever occurs first).  
 
MM HAZ-2.3: 
Based on the results of the Phase II ESA, an Environmental 
Professional (as defined in Title 40 of the California Code of Federal 
Regulations) shall prepare a Redevelopment Management Plan (RMP) 
that shall include a Soil Management Plan (SMP) that describes 
remediation and/or mitigation actions, as necessary. If soil 
contamination at concentrations is detected at the base of the 
construction related excavation, grading, or utility trenching that 
exceeds applicable environmental screening levels (ESLs) established 
by the San Francisco Regional Water Quality Control Board (SF-
RWQCB), additional localized excavations may occur as a 
contingency. Oversight of remediation shall be provided by the San 
Mateo County Environmental Health Services (SMCEHS). Proof of 
implementation of the RMP and SMP shall be provided in a 
Construction Completion Report submitted to the SMCEHS. Proof of 
SMCEHS approval shall be submitted to the Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to the issuance of 
any demolition, grading, or building permit involving excavation, 
shoring, foundation, or the superstructure (whichever occurs first). 
Prior to the 
issuance of any 
demolition, 
grading, or 
building permit 
involving 
excavation, 
shoring, 
foundation, or the 
superstructure 
Project Applicant; 
Project 
Contractor; 
Environmental 
Professional 
 
 
 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
San Mateo 
County 
Environmental 
Health 
Department

--- page 79 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 10 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 
435 EAST 3RD AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-081) 
Mitigation 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
 
MM HAZ-2.4: 
Prior to the issuance of any grading or building permit involving 
excavation, shoring, foundation, or the superstructure (whichever 
occurs first), the applicant shall obtain a permit from the San Mateo 
County Environmental Health Services (SMCEHS) to remove the two 
underground hydraulic lifts at the auto repair facility. Removal 
activities and compliance soil sampling shall be conducted by an 
Environmental Professional (as defined in Title 40 of the California 
Code of Federal Regulations) under the oversight of the SMCEHS. If 
stained soils, free product, and/or elevated petroleum hydrocarbon 
concentrations are detected in soil at concentrations that exceed 
applicable environmental screening levels (ESLs) established by the 
San Francisco Regional Water Quality Control Board (SF-RWQCB), 
over-excavation of the contaminated soil may occur at the time of the 
hydraulic lift removal, at the direction of the SMCEHS, and/or 
potentially during the construction grading and trenching. If 
previously unknown orphan underground storage tanks (USTs) or 
piping are encountered during project construction, work will stop, the 
SMCEHS will be notified, and additional permits will be obtained to 
remove the encountered USTs and/or piping. Removals and 
compliance sampling will be under the oversight of the SMCEHS. 
The removal of the known hydraulic lifts and any USTs found during 
construction, along with any contaminated soil that is removed at that 
time, will reported to the SMCEHS in a Removal Report. 
 
 
 
 
Prior to the 
issuance of any 
grading or building 
permit involving 
excavation, 
shoring, 
foundation, or the 
superstructure 
Project Applicant; 
Project 
Contractor; 
Environmental 
Professional 
 
 
 
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee 
 
San Mateo 
County 
Environmental 
Health 
Department

--- page 80 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 11 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 
435 EAST 3RD AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-081) 
Mitigation 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
NOISE AND VIBRATION 
MM NOI-1.1:  
The applicant and contractor shall place and operate construction 
equipment to minimize the impact of construction noise on existing 
sensitive receptors. Construction equipment shall be well-maintained 
and used judiciously to be as quiet as possible. Additionally, the 
applicant and contractor shall incorporate the following best 
management practices to reduce noise from construction activities on 
nearby sensitive land uses: 
 
(A) The applicant or their designated contractor shall prepare a 
detailed construction plan identifying the schedule for major 
noise-generating construction activities. The construction plan 
shall identify a procedure for coordination with adjacent 
residential land uses so that construction activities can be 
scheduled to minimize noise disturbance. This construction plan 
shall be submitted to the Building Division subject to the review 
and satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or 
his/her designee prior to the issuance of a grading or demolition 
permit. 
(B) The applicant or their designated contractor shall designate a 
“disturbance coordinator” who would be responsible for 
responding to any complaints about construction noise. The 
disturbance coordinator shall determine the cause of the noise 
complaint (e.g., bad muffler, etc.) and shall require that measures 
be implemented to reduce the noise impact. The applicant or their 
designated contractor shall conspicuously post a telephone 
number for the disturbance coordinator at the construction site and 
Prior to the 
issuance of any 
grading or 
demolition permit 
Project Applicant; 
Project 
Contractor;  
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee

--- page 81 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 12 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 
435 EAST 3RD AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-081) 
Mitigation 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
include it in the notice sent to neighbors regarding the 
construction schedule. 
(C) Construction staging areas shall be established at locations that 
will create the greatest distance between the construction-related 
noise sources and noise-sensitive receptors nearest the project site 
during all project construction.  
(D) Use of exceptionally loud equipment such as jackhammers and 
concrete saws within 35 feet of shared property lines shall be 
prohibited. 
(E) All internal combustion engine-driven equipment shall be 
equipped with intake and exhaust mufflers that are in good 
condition and appropriate for the equipment. 
(F) Idling of internal combustion engines for longer than five minutes 
in duration shall be strictly prohibited. 
(G) Stationary noise-generating equipment, such as air compressors or 
portable power generators, shall be locates as far as possible from 
sensitive receptors and property lines. If they must be located 
within 35 feet of receptors and property lines, adequate muffling 
(with temporary barriers where feasible and appropriate) shall be 
used to reduce noise levels at the adjacent sensitive receptors to 90 
dBA. All temporary barriers used shall be eight feet in height at 
minimum, continuous from grade to top, with no cracks or gaps, 
and have a minimum surface density of three pounds per square 
foot (e.g., one-inch thick wood fence boards). 
(H) Construction contractors and subcontractors shall utilize “quiet” 
air compressors and other stationary noise sources where 
technology exists.

--- page 82 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 13 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 
435 EAST 3RD AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-081) 
Mitigation 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
(I) Control noise from construction workers’ radios to a point where 
they are not audible at residences within 50 feet of the project site. 
 
MM NOI-2.1:  
The applicant shall implement a construction vibration monitoring 
plan to document conditions prior to, during, and after vibration 
generating construction activities. All monitoring plan tasks shall be 
undertaken under the direction of a licensed Professional Engineer in 
the State of California. Initial placement of sensors, data, and 
corrective actions to be reviewed by a licensed Professional Structural 
Engineer in the State of California in accordance with industry-
accepted standard methods. The construction vibration monitoring 
plan shall be submitted to the Building Division subject to the 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her 
designee, prior to issuance of any demolition, grading, or building 
permits (whichever occurs first) and shall include: 
 
(A) A description of measurement methods, equipment used, 
calibration certificates, and graphics as required to clearly 
identify vibration-monitoring locations. 
 
(B) A list of all construction equipment to be used and the 
anticipated time of duration shall be submitted by the 
contractor. This list shall be used to identify equipment and 
activities that would potentially generate substantial vibration 
and to define the level of effort required for continuous 
vibration monitoring. 
 
(A) (B) (D) (F) 
Prior to the 
issuance of any 
demolition, 
grading, or 
building permits 
 
(C) Prior to, 
during, and after 
completion of 
vibration 
generating 
activities. 
 
(E) Prior to and 
during 
construction 
activities. 
 
(G) After 
completion of 
vibration 
generating 
activities. 
Project Applicant; 
Project 
Contractor;  
Director of 
Community 
Development or 
the Director’s 
designee

--- page 83 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 14 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 
435 EAST 3RD AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-081) 
Mitigation 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
(C) Document conditions at all structures located within 60 feet of 
construction prior to, during, and after vibration generating 
construction activities. Perform a photo survey, elevation 
survey, and crack monitoring survey prior to any construction 
activity, at the end of each phase of construction, and after 
project completion, and shall include internal and external 
crack monitoring in structures, settlement, and distress, and 
shall document the condition of foundations, walls and other 
structural elements in the interior and exterior of said 
structures. The results of each survey shall be submitted to the 
Director of Community Development, or his/her designee. 
 
(D) A plan to identify structures where and when monitoring 
would be conducted. Construction contingencies shall be 
identified for when vibration levels approach applicable 
limits.  
 
(E) The applicant or their designated contractor shall identify a 
“disturbance coordinator” responsible for registering and 
investigating claims of excessive vibration. The disturbance 
coordinator shall determine the cause of the complaint and 
shall require that measures be implemented to reduce the 
vibration impact. The applicant or their designated contractor 
shall conspicuously post a telephone number for the 
disturbance coordinator at the construction site and include it 
in the notice sent to neighbors regarding the construction 
schedule.

--- page 84 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Mixed-Use Project 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program 
 
 
Page 15 
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 
435 EAST 3RD AVENUE MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA21-081) 
Mitigation 
Timeframe for 
Implementation 
Responsibility 
for 
Implementation 
Oversight of 
Implementation 
(F) Additionally, the construction vibration monitoring plan shall 
include, but not be limited to, the following measures: 
 
a. Use of clam shovels and vibratory rollers shall be 
prohibited within 60 feet of the buildings located at 273 
South Railroad Street. Alternatively, a Caterpillar model 
CP433E vibratory compactor or smaller model may be 
used such that vibration levels would not exceed 
applicable vibration limits.  
b. Alternative methods for breaking up existing pavement, 
such as a pavement grinder, shall be used instead of 
dropping objects within 60 feet of adjacent buildings. 
c. If vibration levels approach limits, suspend construction 
and implement contingency measures to either lower 
vibration levels or secure the affected structures. 
(G) If the post-project completion survey (refer to MM CUL-
2.1D) identifies any damage caused by construction-generated 
vibration, the applicant shall be responsible for completing or 
funding the necessary repairs to restore the damaged structure 
to pre-construction conditions. Damage to the NRHP eligible 
resource at 273 South Railroad Avenue shall be repaired in 
accordance with the Secretary of Interior Standards. 
 
 
SOURCE:  City of San Mateo. 435 East 3rd Avenue Mixed-Use Project. October 2022.

--- page 85 ---
LOCATION MAP 
 
PA-2021-081 
435 E. 3rd Ave., Mixed Use Project 
 
Address(es):  
435 E. 3rd Ave. 
 
San Mateo, CA 94401 
 
Parcel Number(s): 
034-181-160 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Site

--- page 86 ---
DRAWING INDEX AND ISSUE DATES
COVER SHEET
ARCHITECTURAL
A0.01
3D RENDERINGS
A0.02
3D RENDERINGS
A0.03
3D RENDERINGS
A0.04
3D RENDERINGS
A0.05
3D RENDERINGS
A0.06
3D RENDERINGS
A0.07
3D RENDERINGS
A0.08
NEIGHBORHOOD CONTEXT
A0.21
FLOOR AREA CALCULATIONS
A0.22
FLOOR AREA CALCULATIONS
A0.23
COMMERCIAL OPEN SPACE
A0.24
RESIDENTIAL OPEN SPACE
A0.31
CODE ANALYSIS
A0.32
EGRESS DIAGRAMS
A0.33
EGRESS DIAGRAMS
A0.34
EGRESS DIAGRAMS
A1.00
EXISTING/DEMOLITION SITE PLAN
A1.01
SITE PLAN
A1.02
SIDEWALK SECTIONS
A1.11
SOLAR SHADE STUDIES
A2.11
FIRST FLOOR PLAN
A2.12
SECOND FLOOR PLAN
A2.13
THIRD FLOOR PLAN
A2.14
FOURTH FLOOR PLAN
A2.15
FIFTH FLOOR PLAN
A2.31
ROOF PLAN
A3.01
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
A3.02
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
A3.03
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
A4.01
BUILDING SECTIONS
C1.0
EXISTING CONDITIONS
C2.0
SITE PLAN
C3.0
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN
C4.0
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN
C5.0
PRELIMINARY STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN
C6.0
PRELIMINARY EROSION CONTROL PLAN
C6.1
EROSION CONTROL NOTES AND DETAILS
C7.0
DETAILS
L0.1
PRELIMINARY LANDSCAPE PLAN
L0.2
LANDSCAPE SIDEWALK SECTIONS
L0.3
LANDSCAPE - ROOF DECK PLANS
L0.4
EXISTING TREE DISPOSITION PLAN
L0.5
ARBORIST'S REPORT
E1.1
ELECTRICAL SITE LIGHTING-PHOTOMETRIC CALCULATIONS
ISSUE DATES AND DESCRIPTIONS
03.18.21   PRELIM.
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.19.2021
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
07.30.2021
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
12.03.2021 
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
04-08-2022
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06-22-2022
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08-10-2022
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
A Planning Application For:
435 E. THIRD AVENUE
435 E. THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
PRELIMINARY OR PRICING PLANS
FIRST FORMAL SUBMITTAL OR NO CHANGES
SINCE PREVIOUS ISSUE
MODIFICATIONS SINCE PREVIOUS ISSUE
PROJECT NUMBER:
A Planning Application for:
435 E. THIRD AVENUE
435 E. THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
215293
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
THIS IS A NEW 39,893 S.F. 4-STORY OFFICE WITH A 5TH STORY OF RESIDENTIAL UNITS BUILDING ON A 11,035 S.F. LOT.
SCOPE OF WORK SHALL INCLUDE THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING SHELL AND CORE, COMPLETE BUILD OUT OF
RESIDENTIAL  COMPONENT AS WELL AS SITE IMPROVEMENTS SUCH AS SIDEWALKS, CURB/GUTTER, BICYCLE RACKS,
STREET TREES, ETC.
2019 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE (CCR TITLE 24, PART 2)
2019 CALIFORNIA ELECTRIC CODE (CCR TITLE 24, PART 3)
2019 CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE (CCR TITLE 24, PART 4)
2019 CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE  (CCR TITLE 24, PART 5)
2019 CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE (CCR TITLE 24, PART 6)
2019 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE (CCR TITLE 24, PART 9)
2019 CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE (CCR TITLE 24, PART 11)
ALL CODES ARE SUBJECT TO LOCAL GOVERNMENT AMENDMENTS PER CALIFORNIA BUILDING STANDARDS COMMISSION
BULLETIN 10-03.
APPLICABLE CODES
PROJECT TEAM
PHONE:
CONTACT:
EMAIL:
LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECT:
KLA, INC
151 N.Norlin Street
Sonore, CA 95370
209.532.28.56
Tom Holloway
tom@knoxla.com
OWNER:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
530 Emerson Street, Suite 150
Palo Alto, CA 94301
PHONE:
CONTACT:
EMAIL:
ARCHITECT:
ARC TEC INC.
1731 Technology Drive 
San Jose, CA 95110
408.496.0676
Craig Almeleh
craiga@arctecinc.com
PHONE:
CONTACT:
EMAIL:
CIVIL
ENGINEER:
BKF
255 Shoreline Drive, Suite 200
Redwood City, CA 94065
925.396.7726
Janine Lapp
jlapp@bkf.com
VICINITY MAP
E 3RD AVE
SITE
E 4TH AVE
E 5TH AVE
6TH AVE
7TH AVE
8TH AVE
9TH AVE
W 3RD AVE
W 4TH AVE
W 5TH AVE
CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD
2ND AVE
1ST AVE
SAN MATEO DR
S ELLSWORTH AVE
N B ST
EL CERRITO AVE
S RAILROAD AVE
82
82
S EL CAMINO REAL
N EL CAMINO REAL
S CLAREMONT AVE
S DELAWARE AVE
S ELDORADO AVE
S FREMONT AVE
OWNER NAME:
PROJECT ADDRESS:
BUILDING AREA, OFFICE:
NUMBER OF STORIES:
CONSTRUCTION TYPE:
FIRE SPRINKLERS:
TOTAL RESIDENTIAL UNITS:
OCCUPANCY TYPE:
PROJECT DATA
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E. THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
33,529 S.F.
5
SEE BELOW
YES
B  AND R-2
5 UNITS
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A0000.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of  service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2019
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
CONSTRUCTION TYPES:
I-A (BUSINESS B OCCUPANCY / 1ST TO 4TH FLOOR)
V-B (RESIDENTIAL R-2 OCCUPANCY / 5TH FLOOR)

--- page 87 ---
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A0.01-0.03.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
A 0.01
RENDERING
SCALE: 
VIEW ALONG 3RD AVE TOWARDS CLAREMONT
1
NTS

--- page 88 ---
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A0.01-0.03.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
A 0.02
RENDERING
SCALE: 
VIEW ALONG  CLAREMONT
1
NTS

--- page 89 ---
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A0.01-0.03.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
A 0.03
RENDERING
SCALE: 
AERIAL VIEW LOOKING ACROSS 3RD AVENUE
1
NTS

--- page 90 ---
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A0.01-0.03.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
A 0.04
RENDERING
SCALE: 
NIGHT VIEW ALONG 3RD AVENUE TOWARDS CLAREMONT
1
NTS

--- page 91 ---
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A0.01-0.03.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
A 0.05
RENDERING
SCALE: 
NIGHT VIEW ALONG  CLAREMONT
1
NTS

--- page 92 ---
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A0.01-0.03.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
A 0.06
RENDERING
SCALE: 
NIGHT VIEW AT SIDEWALK ALONG CLAREMONT
1
NTS

--- page 93 ---
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A0.01-0.03.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
A0.07
RENDERING
SCALE: 
VIEW AT SIDEWALK ALONG CLAREMONT
1
NTS

--- page 94 ---
UNDER
CONSTRUCTION
OFFICE/
RESIDENTIAL
RESTAURANTS
COMMERCIAL
S.CLAREMONT ST.
EAST 3RD AVE
7
6
COMMERCIAL
RESTAURANTS
COMMERCIAL
S.RAILROAD AVE
4
3
PROPOSED
BUILDING
1
2
RESIDENTIAL
5
SCALE: 
REFERENCE SITE PLAN
NTS
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A0.08.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
A 0.08
NEIGHBORHOOD CONTEXT
2
1
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
PARKING LOT
4
COMMERCIAL BUILDING
3
COMMERCIAL BUILDING
5
RESTAURANT
6
COMMERCIAL BUILDING
7
OFFICE/RESIDENTIAL  BUILDING
47'-10"
10'-9"

--- page 95 ---
UNDER
CONSTRUCTION
OFFICE/
RESIDENTIAL
RESTAURANTS
COMMERCIAL
S.CLAREMONT ST.
EAST 3RD AVE
1
COMMERCIAL
RESTAURANTS
COMMERCIAL
S.RAILROAD AVE
PROPOSED
BUILDING
2
3
RESIDENTIAL
SCALE: 
REFERENCE SITE PLAN
NTS
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A0.09.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
A 0.09
SITE PHOTOS
VIEW OF SITE FROM 3RD AVENUE
1
2
VIEW OF SITE FROM 3RD AVENUE AND CLAREMONT STREET
3
VIEW OF SITE FROM CLAREMONT STREET

--- page 96 ---
DN
UP
DN
UP
SHAFT
108 SF
106'-0"
94'-0"
9'-8"
20'-6"
8'-9"
12'-6"
RESI.
ELEV. 1
84 SF
STAIR 1
256 SF
9'-8"
8'-9"
OFFICE
ELEV. 2
84 SF
12'-5"
21'-0"
STAIR 2
261 SF
8'-9"
12'-4"
OFFICE AREA
9,007 SF
UP
UP
DN
DN
BIKE
95 SF
STAIR 1
262 SF
RESI.
ELEV. 1
84 SF
OFFICE
ELEV. 2
84 SF
STAIR 2
249 SF
38'-0"
68'-0"
9'-8"
8'-9"
21'-0"
12'-6"
14'-0"
6'-9"
6'-2"
RESIDENTIAL
AREA
1,026 SF
20'-2"
7'-0"
13'-6"
9'-8"
8'-9"
12'-5"
20'-0"
OFFICE
AREA
7,967 SF
106'-0"
94'-0"
UP
DN
DN
UP
SHAFT
108 SF
106'-0"
94'-0"
9'-8"
23'-3"
12'-6"
RESI.
ELEV. 1
84 SF
STAIR 1
290 SF
9'-8"
8'-9"
OFFICE
ELEV. 2
84 SF
12'-5"
24'-0"
STAIR 2
298 SF
8'-9"
12'-4"
8'-9"
OFFICE AREA
9,016 SF
*PER San Mateo Municipal Code 27.04.200 (b) Measurement, other than
single-family dwellings in r1 zoning districts.
(1) Floor area is measured from the exterior façade of the building’s wall
planes, from the centerline of party walls, or from a line three feet from the
edge of an eave, whichever produces the largest floor area. Stories
exceeding 15 feet in height shall be counted as additional floor area, with
the exception that ground floor retail may be up to 18 feet in height
measured from first finish floor to second finish floor before being counted
as additional floor area. Floor area also includes all accessory structures on
the site and basements that meet the definition in subsection (c)(5).
(2) Exclusions. The following are not counted as floor area:
(A) Covered or open courts, and atriums, on the ground floor, provided
that the area is not used as dwelling, office, retailing, or required access;
(B) In multiple-level buildings, covered courts, if the retailing uses are
open to the public. Multiple-level stairwells and elevators shall be
counted only as ground floor area;
(C) Covered walkways and balconies;
(D) First floors, mechanical areas, penthouse, and top floors are counted
only once as floor area, regardless of height;
(E) Bicycle parking facilities;
(F) Floor area designated for day care centers accessory to and intended
to serve a multi-family, commercial, office or manufacturing use. Such
floor area may be located within the primary structure or may be in a
freestanding structure accessory to the primary structure;
(G) Covered parking for office use shall not be counted as floor area in
areas delineated for exclusion within an adopted plan, such as the
Mariner’s Island Specific Plan or the Bay Meadows Specific Plan.
FAR AREA DESIGNATION
OFFICE AREA
RESIDENTIAL AREA
AREAS EXCLUDED FROM
FAR CALCULATIONS
FIRST LEVEL
OFFICE SPACE
7,967 SQ. FT.
RESIDENTIAL SPACE                                                       1,026 SQ. FT.
STAIR #1 (RESI.)
262 SQ. FT.
STAIR #2 (OFFICE)
249 SQ. FT.
RESIDENTIAL ELEVATOR 1                                                  84 SQ. FT.
OFFICE ELEVATOR 2
84 SQ. FT.
FLOOR AREA OFFICE*:                                                    8,300 SQ. FT.
FLOOR AREA RESIDENTIAL*:                                          1,372 SQ.FT.
SECOND LEVEL
OFFICE AREA:                                                                   9,007 SQ. FT.
FLOOR AREA OFFICE*:                                                    9,007 SQ. FT.
THIRD LEVEL
OFFICE AREA:                                                                   9,016 SQ. FT.
FLOOR AREA OFFICE*:                                                    9,016 SQ. FT.
FOURTH LEVEL
OFFICE AREA
7,206 SQ. FT.
FLOOR AREA OFFICE*:                                                     7,206 SQ. FT.
FIFTH LEVEL
RESIDENTIAL AREA
4,992 SQ. FT.
FLOOR AREA RESIDENTIAL*:                                          4,992 SQ. FT.
   FAR FLOOR AREA CALCULATIONS
TOTAL FAR FLOOR AREA OFFICE: 38,521 SQ.FT.
TOTAL FAR FLOOR AREA RESIDENTIAL: 6,364 SQ.FT.
    TOTAL PARKING FLOOR AREA : 33,637 SQ.FT.
FIRST LEVEL
OFFICE SPACE
7,967 SQ. FT.
STAIR #2 (OFFICE)
249 SQ. FT.
OFFICE ELEVATOR 2
84 SQ. FT.
TOTAL:                                                                                8,300 SQ. FT.
SECOND LEVEL
OFFICE AREA
9,007 SQ. FT.
SHAFT
     108 SQ.FT.
TOTAL :                                                                              9,115 SQ. FT.
THIRD LEVEL
OFFICE AREA
9,016 SQ. FT.
TOTAL :                                                                               9,016 SQ. FT.
FOURTH LEVEL
OFFICE AREA
7,206 SQ. FT.
TOTAL :                                                                               7,206 SQ. FT.
FIFTH LEVEL
NO OFFICE AREA
 PARKING ORDINANCE AREA
 CALCULATIONS
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A0.21-A0.22.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
A 0.21
PLANNING DEPARTMENT
AREA CALCULATIONS
SCALE: 
SECOND LEVEL AREA PLAN
3/32 = 1'-0"
SCALE: 
THIRD LEVEL AREA PLAN
3/32" = 1'-0"
SCALE: 
FIRST LEVEL AREA PLAN
3/32 = 1'-0"
BICYCLE PARKING REQUIRED
(PER SAN MATEO CITY CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION
27.64.262)
GENERAL OFFICE:
1 SHORT-TERM SPACE PER 20,000 S.F.
33,529 S.F. / 20,000 S.F. = 2 SPACES
1 LONG-TERM SPACE PER 10,000 S.F.
33,529S.F. / 10,000 S.F. = 4 SPACES
RESIDENTIAL:
.05 SHORT-TERM SPACES PER UNIT
5 UNITS * .05 = 1 SPACE
1 LONG-TERM SPACE PER UNIT
5 UNITS * 1 = 5 SPACES
TOTAL SHORT-TERM SPACES: 3 SPACES
TOTAL LONG-TERM SPACES:   9 SPACES
BICYCLE PARKING PROVIDED:
3 SHORT-TERM SPACES
9 LONG-TERM SPACES

--- page 97 ---
UP
DN
UP
DN
95'-4"
85'-6"
SHAFT
108 SF
8'-9"
12'-4"
9'-8"
23'-3"
12'-6"
RESI.
ELEV. 1
84 SF
STAIR 1
290 SF
7'-4"
11'-8"
9'-8"
33'-4"
OFFICE
ELEV. 2
70 SF
STAIR 2
300 SF
8'-9"
OFFICE AREA
7,206 SF
*PER San Mateo Municipal Code 27.04.200 (b) Measurement, other than
single-family dwellings in r1 zoning districts.
(1) Floor area is measured from the exterior façade of the building’s wall
planes, from the centerline of party walls, or from a line three feet from the
edge of an eave, whichever produces the largest floor area. Stories
exceeding 15 feet in height shall be counted as additional floor area, with
the exception that ground floor retail may be up to 18 feet in height
measured from first finish floor to second finish floor before being counted
as additional floor area. Floor area also includes all accessory structures on
the site and basements that meet the definition in subsection (c)(5).
(2) Exclusions. The following are not counted as floor area:
(A) Covered or open courts, and atriums, on the ground floor, provided
that the area is not used as dwelling, office, retailing, or required access;
(B) In multiple-level buildings, covered courts, if the retailing uses are
open to the public. Multiple-level stairwells and elevators shall be
counted only as ground floor area;
(C) Covered walkways and balconies;
(D) First floors, mechanical areas, penthouse, and top floors are counted
only once as floor area, regardless of height;
(E) Bicycle parking facilities;
(F) Floor area designated for day care centers accessory to and intended
to serve a multi-family, commercial, office or manufacturing use. Such
floor area may be located within the primary structure or may be in a
freestanding structure accessory to the primary structure;
(G) Covered parking for office use shall not be counted as floor area in
areas delineated for exclusion within an adopted plan, such as the
Mariner’s Island Specific Plan or the Bay Meadows Specific Plan.
FAR AREA DESIGNATION
OFFICE AREA
RESIDENTIAL AREA
AREAS EXCLUDED FROM
FAR CALCULATIONS
FIRST LEVEL
OFFICE SPACE
7,967 SQ. FT.
RESIDENTIAL SPACE                                                       1,026 SQ. FT.
STAIR #1 (RESI.)
262 SQ. FT.
STAIR #2 (OFFICE)
249 SQ. FT.
RESIDENTIAL ELEVATOR 1                                                  84 SQ. FT.
OFFICE ELEVATOR 2
84 SQ. FT.
FLOOR AREA OFFICE*:                                                    8,300 SQ. FT.
FLOOR AREA RESIDENTIAL*:                                          1,372 SQ.FT.
SECOND LEVEL
OFFICE AREA:                                                                   9,007 SQ. FT.
FLOOR AREA OFFICE*:                                                    9,007 SQ. FT.
THIRD LEVEL
OFFICE AREA:                                                                   9,016 SQ. FT.
FLOOR AREA OFFICE*:                                                    9,016 SQ. FT.
FOURTH LEVEL
OFFICE AREA
7,206 SQ. FT.
FLOOR AREA OFFICE*:                                                     7,206 SQ. FT.
FIFTH LEVEL
RESIDENTIAL AREA
4,992 SQ. FT.
FLOOR AREA RESIDENTIAL*:                                          4,992 SQ. FT.
   FAR FLOOR AREA CALCULATIONS
TOTAL FAR FLOOR AREA OFFICE: 38,521 SQ.FT.
TOTAL FAR FLOOR AREA RESIDENTIAL: 6,364 SQ.FT.
    TOTAL PARKING FLOOR AREA : 33,637 SQ.FT.
FIRST LEVEL
OFFICE SPACE
7,967 SQ. FT.
STAIR #2 (OFFICE)
249 SQ. FT.
OFFICE ELEVATOR 2
84 SQ. FT.
TOTAL:                                                                                8,300 SQ. FT.
SECOND LEVEL
OFFICE AREA
9,007 SQ. FT.
SHAFT
     108 SQ.FT.
TOTAL :                                                                              9,115 SQ. FT.
THIRD LEVEL
OFFICE AREA
9,016 SQ. FT.
TOTAL :                                                                               9,016 SQ. FT.
FOURTH LEVEL
OFFICE AREA
7,206 SQ. FT.
TOTAL :                                                                               7,206 SQ. FT.
FIFTH LEVEL
NO OFFICE AREA
 PARKING ORDINANCE AREA
 CALCULATIONS
MECANICAL
YARD
BIKES
70 SF
RESIDENTIAL
AREA: 4,992 SF
50'-8"
33'-6"
77'-3"
86'-8"
7'-4"
9'-8"
SHAFT
70 SF
21'-8"
STAIR 2
151 SF
7'-0"
35'-9"
43'-6"
21'-4"
9'-8"
7'-9"
RESI.
ELEV. 1
75 SF
STAIR 1
145 SF
6'-10"
10'-6"
6'-8"
SCALE: 
FOURTH LEVEL AREA PLAN
3/32" = 1'-0"
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A0.21-A0.22.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
A 0.22
PLANNING DEPARTMENT
AREA CALCULATIONS
SCALE: 
FIFTH LEVEL AREA PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
BICYCLE PARKING REQUIRED
(PER SAN MATEO CITY CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION
27.64.262)
GENERAL OFFICE:
1 SHORT-TERM SPACE PER 20,000 S.F.
33,529 S.F. / 20,000 S.F. = 2 SPACES
1 LONG-TERM SPACE PER 10,000 S.F.
33,529S.F. / 10,000 S.F. = 4 SPACES
RESIDENTIAL:
.05 SHORT-TERM SPACES PER UNIT
5 UNITS * .05 = 1 SPACE
1 LONG-TERM SPACE PER UNIT
5 UNITS * 1 = 5 SPACES
TOTAL SHORT-TERM SPACES: 3 SPACES
TOTAL LONG-TERM SPACES:   9 SPACES
BICYCLE PARKING PROVIDED:
3 SHORT-TERM SPACES
9 LONG-TERM SPACES

--- page 98 ---
3'-7"
A
B
C
D
E
F
1
2
3
4
5
6
4.9
5.8
A.9
A.8
D.4
E.9
A
E
1
5
UP
UP
DN
DN
A
B
C
D
E
F
1
2
3
4
5
6
4.9
5.8
A.9
A.8
D.4
E.9
A
E
1
5
SCALE: 
GROUND LEVEL PLAN
1/8" = 1'-0"
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A0.23-A0.24.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
0
10
20
30
40
5
A 0.23
COMMERCIAL OPEN SPACE
A27.38.090 OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
(a)
OPEN SPACE SHALL BE PROVIDED IN AN AMOUNT EQUAL TO ONE PERCENT (1%) OF THE
NONRESIDENTIAL FLOOR AREA OF THE PROJECT, NOT INCLUDING PARKING, PROVIDED THAT THERE
SHALL BE NO REQUIREMENT FOR OPEN SPACE WHERE THE RESULTING OPEN SPACE WOULD BE LESS
THAN 200 SQUARE FEET.
(b)
THIS REQUIRED OPEN SPACE SHALL BE USABLE OPEN SPACE LOCATED AT GROUND LEVEL
DIRECTLY ACCESSIBLE TO A PUBLIC SIDEWALK WITH A MINIMUM WIDTH ALONG THE SIDEWALK OF 25
FEET. FIFTY PERCENT OF THE REQUIRED OPEN SPACE SHALL BE UNSHADED BETWEEN NOON AND 2:00
P.M. AT THE SPRING AND FALL EQUINOX EXCEPT WHERE THE OPEN SPACE IS ALREADY SHADED BY AN
EXISTING BUILDING AND NO OTHER OPPORTUNITIES EXIST ON THE SITE. THIS OPEN SPACE AREA SHALL
INCLUDE PROVISIONS FOR PUBLIC USE FACILITIES, SUCH AS SEATING FOR THE PUBLIC IN THE PUBLIC
AREAS
COMMERCIAL OPEN SPACE DATA         .
OPEN SPACE AT GROUND LEVEL, UNSHADED
BETWEEN NOON-2P ON THE SPRING AND FALL
EQUINOX
PROVIDED OPEN SPACE
600 S.F. UNSHADED OPEN SPACE  > 364 REQUIRED OPEN SPACE
REQUIRED UNSHADED OPEN SPACE
50% OF REQUIRED COMMERCIAL OPEN SPACE
364 S.F. * .5 = 182 S.F. REQUIRED UNSHADED OPEN SPACE
600 S.F. PROVIDED UNSHADED OPEN SPACE > 182 S.F. REQUIRED UNSHADED OPEN SPACE
REQUIRED OPEN SPACE
TOTAL COMMERCIAL S.F. = 33,529 S.F.
33,529 S.F. * .01 = 335 S.F. REQUIRED OPEN SPACE

--- page 99 ---
DN
DN
A
E
1
5
148 S.F.
128 S.F.
415 S.F.
150 S.F.
146 S.F.
7'-4"
7'-4"
SCALE: 
FIFTH LEVEL PLAN
1/8" = 1'-0"
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A0.23-A0.24.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
0
10
20
30
40
5
A 0.24
RESIDENTIAL OPEN SPACE
PER SMMC 27.38.130 RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
(c)
OPEN SPACE. RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT SHALL INCLUDE PRIVATE USABLE OPEN SPACE EQUAL
TO AT LEAST 80 SQUARE FEET PER DWELLING UNIT OR COMMON USABLE OPEN SPACE EQUAL TO AT
LEAST 150%  OF THE PRIVATE USABLE OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS, OR A COMBINATION OF BOTH.
PRIVATE USABLE OPEN SPACE USED TO FULFILL THIS REQUIREMENT SHALL HAVE A USABLE AREA OF
NOT LESS THAN 80 SQUARE FEET AND SHALL NOT BE LESS THAN SIX (6) FEET IN ANY DIMENSION.
5 RESIDENTIAL UNITS HAVE PRIVATE OPEN SPACE MEETING THE ABOVE REQUIREMENTS:
REQUIRED PRIVATE OPEN SPACE =  
     
    400  S.F.
PROVIDED PRIVATE OPEN SPACE =  
     
    987  S.F.
RESIDENTIAL OPEN SPACE DATA         .
PRIVATE OPEN SPACE

--- page 100 ---
A
B
C
E
F
TYPE I-A
OFFICE
TYPE V-B
RESIDENTIAL
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A0.31.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
A0.31
BUILDING CODE PROJECT DATA
& BUILDING SECTION - FIRE
SEPARATION
B OCCUPANCY AREA: 37,907 S.F.
37,907 S.F / 200 S.F. PER PERSON  = 189.5 PERSONS; ROUND UP TO 190 PERSONS
95 MEN; 95 WOMEN
MEN'S FIXTURES 
REQUIRED:
PROVIDED:
WATER CLOSETS: 
2
4
URINALS: 
2
3
LAVATORIES: 
2
4
WOMEN'S FIXTURES REQUIRED:
PROVIDED
WATER CLOSETS: 
4
8
LAVATORIES: 
2
4
DRINKING FOUNTAINS REQUIRED
PROVIDED
1
4
PLUMBING FIXTURE TABULATIONS  
            .
1
The figures shown are based upon (1) fixture being the minimum required for the number of persons indicated or any fraction thereof.
2
A restaurant is defined as a business that sells food to be consumed on the premises.
a. The number of occupants for a drive-in restaurant shall be considered as equal to the number of parking stalls.
b. Hand-washing facilities shall be available in the kitchen for employees.
3
The total number of required water closets for females shall not be less than the total number of required water closets and urinals for males. This
requirement shall not apply when single occupancy toilet facilities are provided for each sex in an A or E occupancy with an occupant load of less
than 50.  Either
a. The required urinal shall be permitted to be omitted or
b. If installed, the urinal shall not require a second water closet to be provided for the female.
4
In accordance with Sections 1.8.7 and 301.2, the Authority Having Jurisdiction may approve alternative design criteria when determining the
minimum number of plumbing fixtures.
2
Building categories not shown on this table shall be considered separately by the Authority Having Jurisdiction.
3
Drinking fountains shall not be installed in toilet rooms.
4
Not applicable
*
Any uses not specifically listed shall be based on similar uses listed in this table.
**
For building or space with mixed occupancies, use appropriate occupancy group for each area (for example, a school may have an "A"
occupancy for the gymnasium, a "B"" occupancy for the office, an "E" occupancy for the classrooms, etc.).
Accessory areas may be excluded (for example: hallway, restroom, stair enclosure).
1/A3.21
-
1
ANNOTATION SYMBOLS                                              .
NORTH DESIGNATION
ROOM NAME AND NUMBER
DESIGNATION
DOOR NUMBER DESIGNATION
100.1
INTERIOR ELEVATION
(ARCHITECTURAL OR MILLWORK)
REFERENCE
PARTITION TYPE - REFER TO SHEET
A8.01
KEYNOTE
GLAZING TYPE DESIGNATION
A
A
-
S
-
C
-
ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACES
STANDARD PARKING SPACES
COMPACT PARKING SPACES
WALL SECTION REFERENCE
BUILDING SECTION REFERENCE
1
AX.XX
1
AX.XX
100
OFFICE
CP
-
EVC
-
U
-
UNIFORM PARKING SPACES
CARPOOL/VANPOOL/RIDESHARE
SPACES
ELECTRICAL VEHICLE
CHARGING STATION
AX.XX
-
-
AX.XX
-
REVISION DESIGNATION WITH
DELTA NUMBER
SECTION DETAIL REFERENCE
PLAN DETAIL/ENLARGED
ELEVATION REFERENCE
SCALE: 
-
DRAWING/DETAIL TITLE BLOCK
-
STRUCTURAL GRID
IDENTIFICATION (NEW GRID)
PAINT COLOR DESIGNATION -
REFER TO FINISH
SPECIFICATIONS
FLOOR FINISH
DESIGNATION - REFER TO
FINISH SPECIFICATION
PLASTIC LAMINATE
DESIGNATION - REFER TO
FINISH SPECIFICATIONS
CEILING HEIGHT
CEILING TYPE
ELEVATION
DESCRIPTION
WORK POINT
1
AX.XX
EXTERIOR ELEVATION REFERENCE
-
STRUCTURAL GRID
IDENTIFICATION
(EXISTING GRID)
L1
P1
VCT1
C1
+X'-X"
2019 CPC TABLE 422.1 - MINIMUM PLUMBING FACILITIES (EXCERPT)
Each building shall be provided with sanitary facilities, including provisions for persons with disabilities as prescribed by the Department Having
Jurisdiction.  Table 422.1 applies to new buildings, additions to a building, and changes of occupancy or type in an existing building resulting in
increased occupant load. In accordance with Sections 1.8.7 and 301.3, the Authority Having Jurisdiction may approve alternative design criteria
when determining the minimum number of plumbing fixtures
For requirements for persons with disabilities, Chapter 11A or 11B of the California Building Code shall be used.
The total occupant load shall be determined in accordance with the Occupant Load Factor Table A.
Water Closets
(Fixtures per Person)
Bathtubs or
Showers
(Fixtures per Person)
Drinking
Fountains
(Fixtures per Person)
Urinals
(Fixtures per Person)
Lavatories
(Fixtures per Person)
1
3
Other
TABLE A.  OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANCY *, **
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
(square feet)
For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm.
a. Roof supports: Fire-resistance ratings of primary structural frame and bearing walls are permitted to be reduced by 1 hour where
supporting a roof only.
b. 1. Except in Group A, E, F-1, H, I, L, M, R-1, R-2, R-2.1 and S-1 occupancies, high-rise buildings, and other applications listed in Section
1.11 regulated by the Office of the State Fire Marshal, fire protection of structural members in roof construction shall not be required,
including protection of primary structural frame members, roof framing and decking where every part of the roof construction is 20 feet or
more above any floor immediately below. Fire-retardant-treated wood members shall be allowed to be used for such unprotected members.
     2. For Group A, E, I, L, R-1, R-2, and R-2.1 occupancies, high-rise buildings, and other applications listed in Section 1.11 regulated by
      the Office of the State Fire Marshal, fire protection of members other than the primary structural frame shall not be required,
      including protection of roof framing and decking where every part of the roof construction is 20 feet or more above any floor
      immediately below. Fire-retardant-treated wood members shall be allowed to be used for such unprotected members.
     3. One-story portions of Group A and E assembly occupancies the roof-framing system of Type II A or Type III A construction may be of
     unprotected construction when such roof-framing system is open to the assembly area and does not contain concealed spaces.
c. In all occupancies, heavy timber complying with Section 2304.11 shall be allowed for roof construction including primary structural frame
members where a 1-hour or less fire-resistance rating is required.
d. Not less than the fire-resistance rating required by other sections of this code.
e. Not less than the fire-resistance rating based on fire separation distance (see Table 602).
f.
Not less than the fire-resistance rating as referenced in Section 704.10.
g. Heavy timber bearing walls supporting more than two floors or more than a floor and a roof shall have a fire-resistance rating of not less
than 1 hour.
For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm.
a. Load-bearing exterior walls shall also comply with the fire-resistance rating requirements of Table 601.
b. See Section 706.1.1 for party walls.
c. Open parking garages complying with Section 406 shall not be required to have a fire-resistance rating.
d. The fire-resistance rating of an exterior wall is determined based upon the fire separation distance of the exterior wall and the story in
which the wall is located.
e. For special requirements for Group H occupancies, see Section 415.6.
f.
For special requirements for Group S aircraft hangars, see Section 412.3.1.
g. Where Table 705.8 permits nonbearing exterior walls with unlimited area of unprotected openings, the required fire-resistance rating for the
exterior walls is 0 hours.
h. For a building containing only a Group U occupancy private garage or carport, the exterior wall shall not be required to have a
fire-resistance rating where the fire separation distance is 5 feet (1523 mm) or greater or where equipped throughout with an automatic
sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3 the fire-resistance rating shall not be required where the fire separation distance is 3
feet or greater.
i.
For a Group R-3 building of Type II-B or Type V-B construction, the exterior wall shall not be required to have a fire-resistance rating where
the fire separation distance is 5 feet (1523 mm) or greater or where equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance
with Section 903.3 the fire-resistance rating shall not be required where the fire separation distance is 3 feet or greater.
FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING ELEMENTS (HOURS)
(TABLE 601)
BUILDING ELEMENT
TYPE
I A
TYPE
I B
TYPE
I I A
TYPE
I I B
TYPE
I I I A
TYPE
I I I B
TYPE
I V
TYPE
VA
TYPE
VB
Primary Structural Frame  (See Section 202)
3
2
1
0
1
0
HT
1
0
Bearing Walls
     Exterior
     Interior
3
3
2
2
1
1
0
0
2
1
2
0
2
1/HT
1
1
0
0
Nonbearing Walls And Partitions - Exterior
See Table 602
Nonbearing Walls And Partitions - Interior
0
0
0
0
0
0
See
Section
602.4.6
0
0
Floor Construction and Associated
Secondary Members
(see Section 202)
2
2
1
0
1
0
HT
1
0
Roof Construction and Associated
Secondary Members
(see Section 202)
1 1/2
1
1
0
1
0
HT
1
0
a
d
d
a
f
a
a
f,g
d
b
b,c
b,c
b,c
b,c
c
FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING FOR EXTERIOR WALLS
BASED ON FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE   (TABLE 602)
FIRE SEPARATION
DISTANCE = X
(FEET)
TYPE OF
CONSTRUCTION
OCCUPANCY GROUP
H, L
OCCUPANCY GROUP
F-1, M, S-1
OCCUPANCY GROUP
A, B, E, F-2, I, R  ,S-2, U
x < 5
All
3
2
1
5 ≤X < 10
IA
Others
3
2
2
1
1
1
10 ≤X < 30
IA, IB
I I B, VB
Others
2
1
1
1
0
1
1
0
1
X ≥30
All
0
0
0
a,d,g
b
c
c
e
f
h
h
FIRE RESISTANCE CODE SUMMARY                   .
AF
-
ALTERNATIVE FUEL
PARKING SPACES
SCALE: 
1/8" = 1'-0"
SCALE: 
X
1/8" = 1'-0"
BUILDING ELEVATION TITLE
FLOOR/SITE PLAN TITLE
CENTER LINE DESIGNATION
OFFICE
RESIDENTIAL
CONSTRUCTION TYPE:
I-A
V-B
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER CONFIGURATION:
SM (BUILDING TWO OR MORE STORIES ABOVE
GRADE PLANE, EQUIPPED THROUGHOUT
WITH AN AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM IN
ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 903.3.1.1).
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION
B
R-2
MAXIMUM HEIGHT (TABLE 504.3)
UL
60'-0"
MAXIMUM NUMBER OF STORIES (TABLE 504.4)
UL
3
SM ALLOWABLE AREA FACTOR (TABLE 506.2)
UL
7,000
NS AREA FACTOR (TABLE 506.2)
UL
7,000
HEIGHT OF PROPOSED BUILDING
55'
55'
NUMBER OF STORIES ABOVE GRADE
4
1 *
PROPOSED AREA PER FLOOR
GRADE LEVEL (OFFICE, TYPE I-A)
8,395 S.F.
1,372
SECOND LEVEL (OFFICE, TYPE I-A)
9,800 S.F.
-
THIRD LEVEL (OFFICE, TYPE I-A)
9,880 S.F.
-
FOURTH LEVEL (OFFICE, TYPE I-A)
9,832 S.F.
-
FIFTH LEVEL (RESIDENTIAL, V-B)
-
6,810 SF
TOTAL BUILDING AREA ABOVE GRADE
37,907 S.F.
8,182 SF
ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREA
Notes:
Separated Mixed Occupancy approach is used.
Building Area shown in this table is the building area as defined by the 2019
California Building Code, Section 202:  The area included within surrounding
exterior walls (or exterior walls and fire walls) exclusive of vent shafts and courts.
Areas of the building not provided with surrounding walls shall be included in the
building area if such areas are included within the horizontal projection of the roof
or floor above.
Building Height is defined as the vertical distance from grade plane to the height of
the highest roof surface.  If the highest roof level is a sloped roof, then the average
height of that sloped roof shall be used.  A penthouse is not intended to affect the
measurement of building height.  By definition, a Penthouse is an enclosed,
unoccupied rooftop structure used for sheltering mechanical and electrical
equipment, tanks, elevators and related machinery, and vertical shaft
openings.(Section 202)
Male:
Female
1 : 1-75
1: 1-50
2: 76-150
2: 51-100
3: 151-200
3: 101-150
4: 201-300
4: 151-200
5: 301-400
5: 201-300
6: 301-400
Over 750, add 1 fixture
for each additional 250
males and 1 fixture for
each 200 females.
Male:
Female
1 : 1-50
1: 1-15
2: 51-100
2: 16-30
3: 101-200
3: 31-50
4: 201-400
4: 51-100
8: 101-200
11: 201-400
Over 400, add 1 fixture for each
additional 500 males and 1 for
each additional 150 females.
Male:
1: 1-100
2: 101-200
3: 201-400
4: 401-600
Over 600, add 1
fixture for each
additional 300
males.
B Business occupancy (office, professional or service type transactions)  - banks, vet clinics, hospitals, car wash, banks, beauty salons,
ambulatory health care facilities, laundries and dry cleaning, educational institutions (above high school), or training facilities not located within
school, post offices and printing shops
1 service sink
or laundry tray
1 per 150
Group B
Office or public buildings (areas accessible to the public
200
3 HOUR SEPARATION
2 HOUR FLOOR
2 HOUR FLOOR
2 HOUR FLOOR
SUMMARY:
OFFICE: TYPE I-A CONSTRUCTION
· Rating of building elements CBC TABLE 601:
1.Primary structural frame: 3 hours
2.Exterior bearing walls: 3 hours
3.Interior bearing walls: 3 hours
4.Nonbearing interior walls and partitions: 0 hours
5.Floor construction and associated secondary members: 2 hours
6.Roof construction and associated secondary members: 1 1/2 hour
· Occupancy separation from CBC TABLE 508.4:
        1.      One- hour vertical separation between B and R-2 occupancy.
        2.      One- hour horizontal separation between B and R-2 occupancy.
     Per CBC table 721.1: 2.5" min. of concrete will provide one hour fire rating.
     (CBC 711. 2.3 Exception 2: Construction supporting horizontal assembly of dwelling units is not required
     to be fire-rated.)
· CBC 303.1.2 Small Assembly Spaces:
1.  A room or space used for assembly purposes with an occupant load of less than 50 persons and accessory to another 
occupancy shall be classified as a Group B occupancy or as part of that occupancy.
2. A room or space used for assembly purposes that is less than 750 square feet (70 m2) in area and accessory to another 
    occupancy shall be classified as a Group
B occupancy or as part of that occupancy.
RESIDENTIAL: TYPE V-B CONSTRUCTION
· Rating of building elements CBC TABLE 601:
1.Primary structural frame: 0 hours
2.Exterior bearing walls: 0 hours
3.Interior bearing walls: 0 hours
4.Nonbearing interior walls and partitions: 0 hours
5.Floor construction and associated secondary members: 0 hours
6.Roof construction and associated secondary members: 0 hours.
· Occupancy separation from CBC TABLE 508.4:
1.     One- hour vertical separation between B and R-2 occupancy.
2.     One- hour horizontal separation between B and R-2 occupancy.
     Per CBC table 721.1: 2.5" min. of concrete will provide one hour fire rating.
     (CBC 711. 2.3 Exception 2: Construction supporting horizontal assembly of dwelling units is not required
     to be fire-rated.)
· Occupancy separation between dwelling units from CBC 708.3 Exception 2:
   Dwelling unit and sleeping unit separations in buildings of Types IIB, IIIB and VB construction shall have fire-resistance ratings of not less than 1/2 hour in buildings
equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1.
● CBC 510.2 Horizontal Building Separation Allowance
A building shall be considered as separate and distinct buildings for the purpose of determining area limitations, continuity of fire walls, limitation of number of stories and type of
construction where all of the following conditions are met:
1.The buildings are separated with a horizontal assembly having a fire-resistance rating of not less than 3 hours. Where vertical offsets are provided as part of
a horizontal assembly, the vertical offset and the structure supporting the vertical offset shall have a fire-resistance rating of not less than 3 hours.
2.The building below, including the horizontal assembly, is of Type IA construction.
3. Shaft, stairway, ramp and escalator enclosures through the horizontal assembly shall have not less than a 2-hour fire-resistance rating with opening protectives in
accordance with Section 716.
Exception: Where the enclosure walls below the horizontal assembly have not less than a 3-hour fire-resistance rating with opening protectives in accordance with Section
716, the enclosure walls extending above the horizontal assembly shall be permitted to have a 1-hour fire-resistance rating, provided:
1. The building above the horizontal assembly is not required to be of Type I construction;
2. The enclosure connects fewer than four stories; and
3. The enclosure opening protectives above the horizontal assembly have a fire protection rating of not less than 1 hour.
4. The building or buildings above the horizontal assembly shall be permitted to have multiple Group A occupancy uses, each with an occupant load of less 300, or Group B,
M, R or S occupancies.
5. The building below the horizontal assembly shall be protected throughout by an approved automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1, and shall be
permitted to be any occupancy allowed by this code except Group H.
The maximum building height in feet (mm) shall not exceed the limits set forth in Section 504.3 for the building having the smaller allowable height as measured from
the grade plane.
3 HOUR WALL
or STRUCTURAL
ELEMENTS
SCALE: 
BUILDING SECTION - FIRE SEPARATION
1
3/32" = 1'-0"
2-HOUR FIRE RATED SEPARATION
1-HOUR FIRE RATED SEPARATION
RATED SEPARATION DESIGNATION
SYMBOL KEYS - BUILDING SECTION
3-HOUR FIRE RATED SEPARATION OR
STRUCTURAL ELEMENTS
RESIDENTIAL R-2
(V-B)
OFFICE - B
(I-A)
OFFICE - B
(I-A)
OFFICE - B
(I-A)
OFFICE - B
(I-A)
*
Only one story of the building is R-2 and per CBC Section 510.2, the R-2 occupancy is considered a
separate building.
Allowable Area Calculation for R-2 occupancy:
Building dimensions are approximately 107'-2" x 95'-10".
Equation 5-4
W = [(107'-2" x 30') + (95'-10" x 30') / 406' = 15
Equation 5-5
If = [203'/406' -0.25]15/30 = 0.125
Equation 5-2
Aa = [7,000 SF + (7,000 x 0.125)] x 1 = 7,875 SF
7,875 SF > 6,810 SF (Fifth level)

--- page 101 ---
DN
A
B
C
D
E
F
1
2
3
4
5
6
4.9
5.8
A.9
A.8
D.4
E.9
A
E
1
5
UP
DN
UP
1 :
S.F.
ELEV.2
B
84
150
1
1 :
S.F.
STAIR 2
B
261
150
2
1 :
S.F.
RESTROOMS
B
238
150
2
1 :
S.F.
RESTROOMS
B
242
150
2
1 :
S.F.
ELEV. 1
B
84
150
1
1 :
S.F.
STAIR 1
B
256
150
2
1 :
S.F.
JAN.
B
45
150
1
1 :
S.F.
OPEN
OFFICE
B
8,590
150
58
DIAGONAL DISTANCE=136'-3"
67'-1"> 1/3 DIAGONAL DISTANCE
107'-6" MAX. TRAVEL DIST.
12'-3"
14'-7"
29
29
COMMON PATH=26'-10"
112'-4" MAX. TRAVEL DIST.
29
5.8
34
31
9.3
48
29
5.8
34
31
9.3
48
A
B
C
D
E
F
1
2
3
4
5
6
4.9
5.8
A.9
A.8
D.4
E.9
A
E
1
5
BIKE 95 SF
1 :
S.F.
SHOWER
B
100
150
1
35
7
34
33
9.9
48
77
1 :
S.F.
BIKE RM
B
95
150
1
1 :
S.F.
TRASH RM.
B
292
300
1
1 :
S.F.
ELEV. 1
B
84
150
1
1 :
S.F.
STAIR 1
B
262
150
2
1 :
S.F.
EXIT PASSAGE
B
294
150
2
1 :
S.F.
FIRE PUMP RM
B
224
300
1
1 :
S.F.
RESI. LOBBY
B
147
15
10
1 :
S.F.
ELEV. LOBBY
B
127
150
1
1 :
S.F.
RESTROOMS
B
183
150
2
1 :
S.F.
ELEV.CONTROL
B
97
300
1
1 :
S.F.
ELEV.2
B
84
150
1
1 :
S.F.
STAIR 2
B
249
150
2
1 :
S.F.
TRANSFORMER
B
408
150
3
1 :
S.F.
ELECTRICAL RM
B
225
150
2
1 :
S.F.
FIRE
CONTROL
B
61
300
1
1 :
S.F.
OFFICE LOBBY
B
360
15
24
1 :
S.F.
OPEN
OFFICE
B
6,016
150
41
DIAGONAL DISTANCE=136'-3"
117'-8"> DIAGONAL DISTANCE
92'-10"> 1/3  DIAGOANL DISTANCE
35
31
31
220' MAX. TRAVEL DIST.
33
126' MAX. TRAVEL DIST.
28'-0" COMMON PATH
96' MAX. TRAVEL DIST.
60' MAX. TRAVEL DIST.
33
-
34
77
15.4
68
33
6.6
34
33
9.9
48
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A0.32-A0.33.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
A 0.32
EGRESS DIAGRAMS
SCALE: 
SECOND LEVEL AREA PLAN
3/32 = 1'-0"
SCALE: 
FIRST LEVEL AREA PLAN
3/32 = 1'-0"
2-HOUR RATED FIRE SEPARATION
1-HOUR RATED FIRE SEPARATION
DIRECTION OF EGRESS
OCCUPANT LOAD
FIRE EXTINGUISHER
BRACKET-MOUNTED
SYMBOL KEY
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION OF THE SPACE
SQUARE FOOTAGE
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
EXIT WIDTH REQUIRED
EXIT WIDTH PROVIDED
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED (INCHES)
STAIR WIDTH PROVIDED (INCHES)
EXIT IN ONE DIRECTION
EXIT IN BOTH DIRECTIONS
SIGN FACE DIRECTION
F.E
AREA OCCUPANT LOAD DESIGNATION
DOORWAY OCCUPANT LOAD DESIGNATION
STAIRWAY OCCUPANT LOAD DESIGNATION
PATH OF TRAVEL DESIGNATION
DIRECTION OF EGRESS/OCCUPANT LOAD DESIGNATION
FIRE EXTINGUISHERS AND FIRE HOSES
EXIT SIGNAGE DESIGNATION
RATED SEPARATION DESIGNATION
F.E.C.
F.E.C.
100
30.0
60
100
20.0
34
25
1 :
S.F.
ROOM NAME
B
12,444
150
-
DIRECTION OF TRAVEL
EXITING WIDTH TABULATIONS                                 .
EXIT WIDTH REQUIRED IS 0.3" PER PERSON FOR STAIRS AND 0.2" PER DOORS AND OTHER EXIT ELEMENTS, PER CBC SECTION
1005.3.

--- page 102 ---
A
B
C
D
E
F
1
2
3
4
5
6
4.9
5.8
A.9
A.8
D.4
E.9
A
E
1
5
UP
DN
UP
DN
RESI. ELEV. 1
68 SF
ELEV. 2
68 SF
STAIR 2
371 SF
STAIR 1
348 SF
SHAFT
108 SF
59
59
11.8
34
1 :
S.F.
ELEV.2
B
70
150
1
1 :
S.F.
STAIR 2
B
430
150
2
1 :
S.F.
RESTROOMS
B
246
150
2
1 :
S.F.
RESTROOMS
B
208
150
2
1 :
S.F.
ELEV. 1
B
84
150
1
1 :
S.F.
STAIR 1
B
290
150
2
1 :
S.F.
JAN.
B
45
150
1
1 :
S.F.
DECK
B
734
15
49
1 :
S.F.
OPEN
OFFICE
B
6,745
150
55
DIAGONAL DISTANCE=136'-3"
164'-0" MAX. TRAVEL DIST.
12'-6"
28'-8"
15'-8"
COMMON PATH=56'-10"
129" MAX. TRAVEL DIST.
58
58
11.6
34
1 :
S.F.
DECK
B
427
15
25
1 :
S.F.
DECK
B
553
15
37
49
49
9.8
34
25
37
25
5
34
37
7.4
34
61
18.3
48
109
32.7
48
75'-11"> 1/3 DIAGONAL DISTANCE
A
B
C
D
E
F
1
2
3
4
5
6
4.9
5.8
A.9
A.8
D.4
E.9
A
E
1
5
UP
DN
DN
UP
SHAFT
108 SF
1 :
S.F.
ELEV.2
B
84
150
1
1 :
S.F.
STAIR 2
B
298
150
2
1 :
S.F.
RESTROOMS
B
238
150
2
1 :
S.F.
RESTROOMS
B
242
150
2
1 :
S.F.
ELEV. 1
B
84
150
1
1 :
S.F.
STAIR 1
B
290
150
2
1 :
S.F.
JAN.
B
45
150
1
1 :
S.F.
OPEN
OFFICE
B
8,629
150
58
DIAGONAL DISTANCE=136'-3"
67'-1"> 1/3 DIAGONAL DISTANCE
107'-6" MAX. TRAVEL DIST.
12'-3"
14'-7"
29
COMMON PATH=26'-10"
112'-4" MAX. TRAVEL DIST.
29
5.8
34
31
9.3
48
31
9.3
48
112'-4" MAX. TRAVEL DIST.
SCALE: 
THIRD LEVEL AREA PLAN
3/32" = 1'-0"
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A0.32-A0.33.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
A 0.33
EGRESS DIAGRAMS
2-HOUR RATED FIRE SEPARATION
1-HOUR RATED FIRE SEPARATION
DIRECTION OF EGRESS
OCCUPANT LOAD
FIRE EXTINGUISHER
BRACKET-MOUNTED
SYMBOL KEY
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION OF THE SPACE
SQUARE FOOTAGE
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
EXIT WIDTH REQUIRED
EXIT WIDTH PROVIDED
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED (INCHES)
STAIR WIDTH PROVIDED (INCHES)
EXIT IN ONE DIRECTION
EXIT IN BOTH DIRECTIONS
SIGN FACE DIRECTION
F.E
AREA OCCUPANT LOAD DESIGNATION
DOORWAY OCCUPANT LOAD DESIGNATION
STAIRWAY OCCUPANT LOAD DESIGNATION
PATH OF TRAVEL DESIGNATION
DIRECTION OF EGRESS/OCCUPANT LOAD DESIGNATION
FIRE EXTINGUISHERS AND FIRE HOSES
EXIT SIGNAGE DESIGNATION
RATED SEPARATION DESIGNATION
F.E.C.
F.E.C.
100
30.0
60
100
20.0
34
25
1 :
S.F.
ROOM NAME
B
12,444
150
-
DIRECTION OF TRAVEL
EXITING WIDTH TABULATIONS                                 .
EXIT WIDTH REQUIRED IS 0.3" PER PERSON FOR STAIRS AND 0.2" PER DOORS AND OTHER EXIT ELEMENTS, PER CBC SECTION
1005.3.
SCALE: 
FOURTH LEVEL AREA PLAN
3/32" = 1'-0"

--- page 103 ---
DN
DN
OPEN MECHANICAL YARD
1 :
S.F.
ELEV.2
B
70
150
1
1 :
S.F.
STAIR 2
B
183
150
2
1 :
S.F.
ELEV. 1
B
75
150
1
1 :
S.F.
STAIR 1
B
191
150
2
1 :
S.F.
RESIDENCE
R-2
1,112
200
6
1 :
S.F.
RESIDENCE
R-2
912
200
5
1 :
S.F.
RESIDENCE
R-2
1,420
200
7
1 :
S.F.
RESIDENCE
R-2
756
200
4
1 :
S.F.
RESIDENCE
R-2
1,171
200
6
148'-9" MAX. TRAVEL DIST.
119'-0" MAX. TRAVEL DIST.
COMMON PATH=92'-9"
3'-3"
16'-6"
14
14
14
2.8
34
16
4.2
48
14
2.8
34
16
4.2
48
DIAGONAL DISTANCE=128'-3"
51'-0"> 1/3 DIAGONAL DISCTANCE
10'-6"
27'-3"
10'-1"
1'-9"
2-HOUR FIRE-RATED HORIZONTAL EXIT
SCALE: 
FIFTH LEVEL AREA PLAN
3/32" = 1'-0"
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A0.32-A0.33.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
A 0.34
EGRESS DIAGRAMS
2-HOUR RATED FIRE SEPARATION
1-HOUR RATED FIRE SEPARATION
DIRECTION OF EGRESS
OCCUPANT LOAD
FIRE EXTINGUISHER
BRACKET-MOUNTED
SYMBOL KEY
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION OF THE SPACE
SQUARE FOOTAGE
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
EXIT WIDTH REQUIRED
EXIT WIDTH PROVIDED
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED (INCHES)
STAIR WIDTH PROVIDED (INCHES)
EXIT IN ONE DIRECTION
EXIT IN BOTH DIRECTIONS
SIGN FACE DIRECTION
F.E
AREA OCCUPANT LOAD DESIGNATION
DOORWAY OCCUPANT LOAD DESIGNATION
STAIRWAY OCCUPANT LOAD DESIGNATION
PATH OF TRAVEL DESIGNATION
DIRECTION OF EGRESS/OCCUPANT LOAD DESIGNATION
FIRE EXTINGUISHERS AND FIRE HOSES
EXIT SIGNAGE DESIGNATION
RATED SEPARATION DESIGNATION
F.E.C.
F.E.C.
100
30.0
60
100
20.0
34
25
1 :
S.F.
ROOM NAME
B
12,444
150
-
DIRECTION OF TRAVEL
EXITING WIDTH TABULATIONS                                 .
EXIT WIDTH REQUIRED IS 0.3" PER PERSON FOR STAIRS AND 0.2" PER DOORS AND OTHER EXIT ELEMENTS, PER CBC SECTION
1005.3.

--- page 104 ---
1
4
4
SOUTH CLAREMONT STREET
EAST THIRD AVENUE
1
1
1
2
2
2
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A100.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
SCALE: 
DEMOLITION SITE PLAN
1/8" = 1'-0"
0
10
20
30
40
5
A 1.00
DEMOLITION SITE PLAN
EXISTING BUILDING TO BE DEMOLISHED
1
KEYNOTES                                                  .
NOTE: NOT ALL KEYNOTES LISTED MAY APPLY TO THIS DRAWING.
EXISTING PAVED PARKING AND DRIVES TO BE REMOVED
2
ADJACENT COMMERCIAL BUILDING
3
4
EXISTING PUBLIC SIDEWALK TO REPLACED.

--- page 105 ---
10"
107'-2"
2'-0"
16'-0"
18'-8"
17'-11"
15'-0"
3'-4"
95'-10"
10"
SOUTH CLAREMONT STREET
EAST THIRD AVENUE
1
1
1
1
2
4
4
4
3
5
TYP.
5
TYP.
6
4'-0"
PLANTER
ZONE
7'-6"
THROUGH
ZONE
4'-0"
PLANTER
ZONE
8'-0"
THROUGH
ZONE
15'-11"
8
13'-11"
7
6"
CURB
6"
CURB
BUILDING FOOTPRINT
9,757 SF
9
9
3'-0"
SIDEWALK
EASEMENT
6"
SIDEWALK
EASEMENT
10
10
·
REFER TO SHEET C2.01 AND C3.01 FOR ALL EXISTING AND PROPOSED OBSTRUCTIONS
ON SIDEWALKS AND CURBS INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO HYDRANTS, UTILITY
METERS, UTILITY POLES AND STREETLIGHTS .
·
REFER TO SHEET C2.01 FOR ALL EXISTING EASEMENTS ON THE PROJECT. THERE ARE
NO PROPOSED EASEMENTS AT THIS TIME.
·
REFER TO SHEET L0.4 FOR LOCATION, SPECIES AND SIZE OF ALL EXISTING TREES
NOTED TO BE REMOVED.
SITE PLAN NOTES:
11
11
2'-6"
SCALE: 
SITE PLAN
1/8" = 1'-0"
0
10
20
30
40
5
A 1.01
SITE PLAN
ASSESSOR'S PARCEL NO.:                     
034181160
ZONING:
CBD/S - CENTRAL BUSINESS SUPPORT
SITE AREA:
11,035 S.F. / .25 ACRES
MAX. ALLOWABLE AREA / MAX. F.A.R.:                                                                                       33,105 S.F. / 3.0
MAX RESIDENTIAL UNITS (50 PER ACRE):                                                                                                  13 UNITS
CALIFORNIA DENSITY BONUS ( ADDITIONAL 1.35):                                                                          17 UNITS
ALLOWABLE HEIGHT:
55'-0"
PROPOSED HEIGHT:
55'-0"
PROPOSED  FLOOR AREA:
FIRST FLOOR :
9,672 S.F.
                                OFFICE:                                                                                                                           8,300 S.F.
                                RESIDENTIAL                                                                                                                  1,372 S.F.
SECOND FLOOR OFFICE :
9,007 S.F.
THIRD FLOOR OFFICE :
9,016 S.F.
FOURTH FLOOR OFFICE :
7,206 S.F.
                              .
FIFTH  FLOOR RESIDENTIAL :
4,992 S.F.
TOTAL  FLOOR AREA BUILDING:
39,893 S.F.
FLOOR AREA RATIO (39,893 S.F./11,035 S.F.)                                                                                                  3.612
   2PER CALIFORNIA DENSITY BONUS, ADDITIONAL FAR INCREASE
   BEYOND 3.0 REQUESTED
PARCEL COVERAGE:
9,757 / 11,035= 88.4%
F.A.R. (OFFICE AREA):
33,529/ 11,035 = 303.8%
F.A.R. (OFFICE AND RESIDENTIAL):
39,893 / 11,035 = 361.5%
TOTAL RESIDENTIAL UNITS PROVIDED:
 (5) UNITS
UNIT TYPE COUNT:                                                                                                                                     (1) STUDIO
                                                                                                                                             (4) ONE-BEDROOM UNITS
PROJECT DATA                                           .
EXISTING PROPERTY LINE
1
KEYNOTES                                           .
NOTE: NOT ALL KEYNOTES LISTED MAY APPLY TO THIS DRAWING.
2
3
4
PARKING ANALYSIS                                    .
TOTAL PARKING REQUIRED PER SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 27.64
OFFICE(1.87/1,000)3(33,367 SF)
63 SPACES
RESIDENTIAL (.5 / BEDROOM)
3 SPACES
PARKING TOTAL REQUIRED:
66 SPACES
NOTE: USING STATE DENSITY BONUS FOR OFFSITE PARKING WITH IN-LIEU OF FEES
RESIDENTIAL ENTRY
EXISTING PUBLIC SIDEWALK TO BE REPLACED
MAIN ENTRY TO OFFICE SPACE
5
DASHED LINE INDICATES CANOPY ABOVE
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A101.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
6
PUE EASEMENT
7
SOLID WASTE SERVICE LOCATION.
8
PROPOSED FUTURE PUBLIC ART LOCATION
9
POTENTIAL FUTURE GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE
ACCESSIBLE PATH OF TRAVEL SHOWN DASHED
10
BICYCLE RACK FOR (2) SHORT TERM PARKING SPACES.
11

--- page 106 ---
4'-0"
PLANTER
ZONE
8'-0"
THROUGH
ZONE
6"
CURB
VARIES
FRONTAGE
ZONE
PARALLEL
PARKING
4'-0"
PLANTER
ZONE
7'-6"
THROUGH
ZONE
6"
CURB
VARIES
FRONTAGE
ZONE
PARALLEL
PARKING
A 1.02
SIDEWALK SECTION
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A101.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
0
5
10
15
20
SCALE: 
A.10
SIDEWALK SECTION- CLAREMONT
1
1/4" = 1'-0"
0
5
10
15
20
SCALE: 
A.10
SIDEWALK SECTION- E 3RD
2
1/4" = 1'-0"

--- page 107 ---
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A111.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:40pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
SCALE: 
SUMMER SOLSTICE - 9 AM
4
N.T.S
SCALE: 
SPRING EQUINOX - 9 AM
1
N.T.S
SCALE: 
WINTER SOLSTICE - 9 AM
10
N.T.S
SCALE: 
AUTUMN EQUINOX - 9 AM
7
N.T.S
SCALE: 
SUMMER SOLSTICE - 12 PM
5
N.T.S
SCALE: 
SPRING EQUINOX - 12 PM
2
N.T.S
SCALE: 
WINTER SOLSTICE - 12 PM
11
N.T.S
SCALE: 
AUTUMN EQUINOX - 12 PM
8
N.T.S
SCALE: 
SUMMER SOLSTICE - 3 PM
6
N.T.S
SCALE: 
SPRING EQUINOX - 3 PM
3
N.T.S
SCALE: 
WINTER SOLSTICE - 3 PM
12
N.T.S
SCALE: 
AUTUMN EQUINOX - 3 PM
9
N.T.S
A 1.11
SOLAR SHADOW STUDY

--- page 108 ---
A
B
C
D
E
F
1
2
3
4
5
6
4.9
5.8
A.9
A.8
D.4
E.9
17'-8"
2'-2"
28'-3"
5'-3"
24'-6"
3'-8"
6'-0"
11'-4"
1'-10"
5'-7"
14'-4"
32'-8"
22'-2"
2'-10"
9'-3"
3'-11"
A
E
1
5
UP
UP
DN
DN
BIKE
ROOM
TRASH
ROOM
STAIR 1
RESI.
ELEV. 1
FIRE PUMP
ROOM
FIRE
CONTROL
ROOM
MAIL
ELECTRICAL
ROOM
TRANSFORMER
ROOM
ELEV. CONTROL
ROOM
OFFICE
ELEV. 2
STAIR 2
FF.=0'-0"
OFFICE SPACE
SHOWER
RESTROOM
RESTROOM
2'-2"
10"
4'-4"
2'-0"
107'-2"
1'-10"
10"
3'-3"
95'-10"
1
TYP.
1
TYP.
1
TYP.
2
TYP.
4
TYP.
4
TYP.
4
TYP.
4
TYP.
6
TYP.
6
TYP.
6
TYP.
6
TYP.
5
TYP.
5
TYP.
2
A4.01
1
A4.01
OFFICE LOBBY
EXIT PASSAGE/RESIDENTIAL ENTRY
14
15
2'-6"
SCALE: 
FIRST LEVEL PLAN
1/8" = 1'-0"
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A211.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
0
10
20
30
40
5
A 2.11
FIRST LEVEL PLAN
KEYNOTES
NOTE: NOT ALL KEYNOTES LISTED MAY APPLY TO THIS DRAWING.
EXTERIOR GLAZING SYSTEM; REFER TO EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS FOR SPECIFICATION
STRUCTURAL COLUMN
NOT USED
EXTERIOR WALL; REFER TO EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS FOR FINISH SPECIFICATION
CANOPY ABOVE, SHOWN DASHED
EDGE OF BALCONY WITH 42" HIGH GUARDRAIL, REFER TO EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS FOR
GUARDRAIL SPECIFICATION
PROPERTY LINE
1
2
3
4
5
7
6
8
9
10
11
12
13
CANOPY BELOW
SOFFIT ABOVE, SHOWN DASHED
SHAFT
LINE OF CANOPY BELOW
LINE OF BALCONY BELOW
PATIO DIVIDERS
14
KNOX BOX KEY SHUT OFF FOR FUTURE PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM.
15
RATED EXIT PASSAGE

--- page 109 ---
DN
A
B
C
D
E
F
1
2
3
4
5
6
4.9
5.8
A.9
A.8
D.4
E.9
17'-8"
2'-2"
28'-3"
5'-3"
24'-6"
3'-8"
6'-0"
11'-4"
1'-10"
5'-7"
14'-4"
32'-8"
22'-2"
2'-10"
9'-3"
3'-11"
A
E
1
5
UP
DN
UP
STAIR 1
RESI
ELEV. 1
0FFICE
ELEV. 2
STAIR 2
OFFICE SPACE
2'-2"
4'-4"
107'-2"
1'-10"
3'-3"
95'-10"
1
TYP.
1
TYP.
1
TYP.
2
TYP.
4
TYP.
4
TYP.
4
TYP.
4
TYP.
6
TYP.
6
TYP.
6
6
TYP.
11
TYP.
11
TYP.
9
TYP.
10
TYP.
10
MEN
WOMEN
JANITOR
2
A4.01
1
A4.01
SCALE: 
SECOND LEVEL PLAN
1/8" = 1'-0"
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A212.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
0
10
20
30
40
5
A 2.12
SECOND LEVEL PLAN
KEYNOTES
NOTE: NOT ALL KEYNOTES LISTED MAY APPLY TO THIS DRAWING.
EXTERIOR GLAZING SYSTEM; REFER TO EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS FOR SPECIFICATION
STRUCTURAL COLUMN
NOT USED
EXTERIOR WALL; REFER TO EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS FOR FINISH SPECIFICATION
CANOPY ABOVE, SHOWN DASHED
EDGE OF BALCONY WITH 42" HIGH GUARDRAIL, REFER TO EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS FOR
GUARDRAIL SPECIFICATION
PROPERTY LINE
1
2
3
4
5
7
6
8
9
10
11
12
13
CANOPY BELOW
SOFFIT ABOVE, SHOWN DASHED
SHAFT
LINE OF CANOPY BELOW
LINE OF BALCONY BELOW
PATIO DIVIDERS
14
KNOX BOX KEY SHUT OFF FOR FUTURE PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM.
15
RATED EXIT PASSAGE

--- page 110 ---
A
B
C
D
E
F
1
2
3
4
5
6
4.9
5.8
A.9
A.8
D.4
E.9
17'-8"
2'-2"
28'-3"
5'-3"
24'-6"
3'-8"
6'-0"
11'-4"
1'-10"
5'-7"
14'-4"
32'-8"
22'-2"
2'-10"
9'-3"
3'-11"
A
E
1
5
UP
DN
DN
UP
STAIR 1
RESI
ELEV. 1
OFFICE
ELEV. 2
STAIR 2
OFFICE SPACE
2'-2"
4'-4"
107'-2"
1'-10"
3'-3"
95'-10"
1
TYP.
1
TYP.
1
TYP.
2
TYP.
4
TYP.
4
TYP.
4
TYP.
4
TYP.
6
TYP.
6
TYP.
6
TYP.
6
TYP.
9
TYP.
9
TYP.
10
MEN
WOMEN
JANITOR
2
A4.01
1
A4.01
SCALE: 
THIRD LEVEL PLAN
1/8" = 1'-0"
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A213.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
0
10
20
30
40
5
A 2.13
THIRD LEVEL PLAN
KEYNOTES
NOTE: NOT ALL KEYNOTES LISTED MAY APPLY TO THIS DRAWING.
EXTERIOR GLAZING SYSTEM; REFER TO EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS FOR SPECIFICATION
STRUCTURAL COLUMN
NOT USED
EXTERIOR WALL; REFER TO EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS FOR FINISH SPECIFICATION
CANOPY ABOVE, SHOWN DASHED
EDGE OF BALCONY WITH 42" HIGH GUARDRAIL, REFER TO EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS FOR
GUARDRAIL SPECIFICATION
PROPERTY LINE
1
2
3
4
5
7
6
8
9
10
11
12
13
CANOPY BELOW
SOFFIT ABOVE, SHOWN DASHED
SHAFT
LINE OF CANOPY BELOW
LINE OF BALCONY BELOW
PATIO DIVIDERS
14
KNOX BOX KEY SHUT OFF FOR FUTURE PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM.
15
RATED EXIT PASSAGE

--- page 111 ---
A
B
C
D
E
F
1
2
3
4
5
6
4.9
5.8
A.9
A.8
D.4
E.9
17'-8"
2'-2"
28'-3"
5'-3"
24'-6"
3'-8"
6'-0"
11'-4"
1'-10"
5'-7"
14'-4"
32'-8"
22'-2"
2'-10"
9'-3"
3'-11"
A
E
1
5
UP
DN
UP
DN
STAIR 1
RESI
ELEV. 1
OFFICE
ELEV. 2
STAIR 2
OFFICE SPACE
1'-2"
4'-4"
106'-2"
1'-4"
3'-3"
95'-4"
1
TYP.
1
TYP.
1
TYP.
2
TYP.
4
TYP.
7
7
4
TYP.
6
TYP.
6
TYP.
6
TYP.
6
TYP.
5
10
5
OFFICE
BALCONY
OFFICE
BALCONY
MEN
WOMEN
10'-6"
9'-10"
JANITOR
5
4
TYP.
4
TYP.
95'-8"
2
A4.01
1
A4.01
SCALE: 
FOURTH LEVEL PLAN
1/8" = 1'-0"
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A214.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
0
10
20
30
40
5
A 2.14
FOURTH LEVEL PLAN
KEYNOTES
NOTE: NOT ALL KEYNOTES LISTED MAY APPLY TO THIS DRAWING.
EXTERIOR GLAZING SYSTEM; REFER TO EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS FOR SPECIFICATION
STRUCTURAL COLUMN
NOT USED
EXTERIOR WALL; REFER TO EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS FOR FINISH SPECIFICATION
CANOPY ABOVE, SHOWN DASHED
EDGE OF BALCONY WITH 42" HIGH GUARDRAIL, REFER TO EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS FOR
GUARDRAIL SPECIFICATION
PROPERTY LINE
1
2
3
4
5
7
6
8
9
10
11
12
13
CANOPY BELOW
SOFFIT ABOVE, SHOWN DASHED
SHAFT
LINE OF CANOPY BELOW
LINE OF BALCONY BELOW
PATIO DIVIDERS
14
KNOX BOX KEY SHUT OFF FOR FUTURE PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM.
15
RATED EXIT PASSAGE

--- page 112 ---
DN
DN
A
E
1
5
1
TYP.
1
TYP.
4
TYP.
12
4
TYP.
6
TYP.
6
TYP.
6
TYP.
6
TYP.
A
E
1
5
5"
86'-6"
1'-0"
7'-0"
77'-6"
9"
8"
13
TYP.
13
TYP.
11
11
11
12
7
7
4
TYP.
4
TYP.
2
A4.01
1
A4.01
DN
DN
A
E
1
5
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
STUDIO
UNIT
TRASH
ROOM
ELEV 1
BIKE
ROOM
JANITOR
MECHANICAL YARD
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
LIVING ROOM
LIVING ROOM
LIVING ROOM
LIVING ROOM
LIVING/DINING/
KITCHEN
KITCHEN/
DINING
KITCHEN/
DINING
KITCHEN/
DINING
KITCHEN/
DINING
BATH
BATH
BATH
BATH
BATH
BEDROOM
BEDROOM
BEDROOM
BEDROOM
OFFICE
NOOK
WALK-IN
CLOSET
WALK-IN
CLOSET
WALK-IN
CLOSET
WALK-IN
CLOSET
SCALE: 
FIFTH LEVEL PLAN
1/8" = 1'-0"
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A215.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
0
10
20
30
40
5
A 2.15
FIFTH LEVEL PLAN
KEYNOTES
NOTE: NOT ALL KEYNOTES LISTED MAY APPLY TO THIS DRAWING.
EXTERIOR GLAZING SYSTEM; REFER TO EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS FOR SPECIFICATION
STRUCTURAL COLUMN
NOT USED
EXTERIOR WALL; REFER TO EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS FOR FINISH SPECIFICATION
CANOPY ABOVE, SHOWN DASHED
EDGE OF BALCONY WITH 42" HIGH GUARDRAIL, REFER TO EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS FOR
GUARDRAIL SPECIFICATION
PROPERTY LINE
1
2
3
4
5
7
6
8
9
10
11
12
13
CANOPY BELOW
SOFFIT ABOVE, SHOWN DASHED
SHAFT
LINE OF CANOPY BELOW
LINE OF BALCONY BELOW
PATIO DIVIDERS
14
KNOX BOX KEY SHUT OFF FOR FUTURE PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM.
15
RATED EXIT PASSAGE
STUDIO
   1 UNIT
ONE BEDROOMS
   4 UNITS
TOTAL
   5 UNITS
RESIDENTIAL UNITS COUNT:
.
27.38.130 RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
(a)        Open Space. Residential development shall include private
usable open space equal to at least 80 square feet per dwelling unit
or common usable open space equal to at least 150% of the private
usable open space requirements, or a combination of both.
Private usable open space used to fulfill this requirement shall have
a usable area of not less than 75 square feet and shall not be less
than six (6) feet in any dimension.
PROJECT PROPOSES TO MODIFY PE RTHE STATE DENISTY
CODE THE REQUIRES TO:
27.38.130 RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
(a)        Open Space. Residential development shall include private
usable open space equal to at least 60 square feet per dwelling unit
or common usable open space equal to at least 150% of the private
usable open space requirements, or a combination of both.
Private usable open space used to fulfill this requirement shall have
a usable area of not less than 60 square feet and shall not be less
than six (6) feet in any dimension.

--- page 113 ---
3
TYP.
1
2
A4.01
1
A4.01
A
B
C
D
E
F
1
2
3
4
5
6
4.9
5.8
A.9
A.8
D.4
E.9
A
E
1
5
2
2
ROOF SLOPE  1
4" PER FT MIN.
ROOF SLOPE  1
4" PER FT MIN.
ROOF SLOPE  1
4" PER FT MIN.
ROOF SLOPE  1
4" PER FT MIN.
2
2
2
4
TYP.
5
6
6
7
7
8
9
TYP.
10
10
11
51'-2"
77'-6"
86'-11"
44'-0"
SCALE: 
ROOF PLAN
1/8" = 1'-0"
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A231.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:36pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
0
10
20
30
40
5
A 2.31
ROOF PLAN
RIDGE
1
KEYNOTES                                                  .
NOTE: NOT ALL KEYNOTES LISTED MAY APPLY TO THIS DRAWING.
ROOF DRAIN AND OVERFLOW
2
PARAPET WALL, SEE ELEVATION FOR HEIGHTS
3
ROOF SCREEN, SEE ELEVATION FOR HEIGHTS
4
MECHANICAL YARD BELOW
5
RESIDENTIAL DECKS BELOW
6
OFFICE BALCONY BELOW
7
RESIDENTIAL ROOF TOP MECHANICAL UNITS; FINAL SIZE AND LOCATION TO BE DETERMINED
8
ROOF ACCESS HATCH, 4'X6' MIN. (TO MEET SMMC 23.54.090.d2 SECURITY STANDARDS)
9
10
ELEVATOR PENTHOUSE
ROOF PLAN GENERAL NOTES
1.
ROOFING TO A MINIMUM AGED SOLAR REFLECTANCE OF 0.70 AND A MINIMUM THERMAL EMITTANCE
OF 0.85
OR
2.
A MINIMUM SOLAR REFLECTANCE INDEX (SRI) OF 85
SOLAR READY ZONE FOR INSTALLATION OF THE FUTURE PV SYSTEM. 15% MINIMUM OF
TOTAL ROOF AREA PER 2019 CECC 110.10(b)(B). 5KW MIN.PER SM REACH CODE
11

--- page 114 ---
10
13
12
10
4
4
1
1
2
5
6
7
9
11
8
14
W1
P1
G1
G2
M1
6
M1
CLAREMONT
+0'-0" A.F.F.
1ST LEVEL
3
B1
3'-11"
3'-2"
3'-2"
3'-11"
4'-0"
3'-3"
2'-8"
+34'-10" A.F.F.
4TH LEVEL
+23'-4" A.F.F.
3RD LEVEL
+11'-10" A.F.F.
2ND LEVEL
+46'-4" A.F.F.
5TH LEVEL
+55'-0" A.F.F.
HEIGHT LIMIT      
CURB HEIGHT
55'-0"
ROOF PLATE HEIGHT FROM  LOWEST POINT  OF
EXISTING SIDEWALK GRADE (23.85)
59'-0" T.O. PARAPET FROM LOWEST GRADE POINT AT
EXISTING SIDEWALK GRADE
39'-6"
19'-3"
36'-3"
5
W1
39'-6"
35'-0"
5"
7
10
10
13
12
4
4
1
2
3
5
6
6
9
11
8
14
W1
P1
G1
G2
M1
6
M1
+34'-10" A.F.F.
4TH LEVEL
+23'-4" A.F.F.
3RD LEVEL
+11'-10" A.F.F.
2ND LEVEL
+46'-4" A.F.F.
5TH LEVEL
+55'-0" A.F.F.
          HEIGHT LIMIT
+0-0" A.F.F.
1ST LEVEL
3RD AVENUE
B1
M1
1'-10"
1'-5"
3'-11"
3'-6"
3'-4"
4'-0"
CURB HEIGHT
9
9
55'-0"
ROOF PLATE HEIGHT FROM  LOWEST POINT  OF
EXISTING SIDEWALK GRADE (23.85)
59'-0" T.O. PARAPET FROM LOWEST GRADE POINT AT
EXISTING SIDEWALK GRADE
37'-9"
17'-9"
39'-6"
5
W1
35'-0"
39'-6"
4'-0"
5
W1
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A301-303.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:37pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
0
10
20
30
40
5
A 3.01
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
SCALE: 
3RD AVENUE - SOUTH ELEVATION
6
1/8" = 1'-0"
SCALE: 
S. CLAREMONT STREET - EAST ELEVATION
8
1/8" = 1'-0"
1" INSULATED LOW E GLAZING SYSTEM WITH LOW TINT GLASS IN BLACK ALUMINUM FRAMES
AND VERTICAL BUTT JOINTS
1
KEYNOTES                                                  .
NOTE: NOT ALL KEYNOTES LISTED MAY APPLY TO THIS DRAWING.
2
THIN BRICK OVER METAL FRAMING
3
PRECAST CONCRETE
4
WOOD CLADDING OVER METAL FRAMING
5
1" INSULATED LOW E GLAZING SYSTEM WITH GRAY TINT GLASS IN BLACK ALUMINUM FRAMES
WITH  VERTICAL AND  HORIZONTAL EXPRESSED MULLIONS
ALUMINUM COMPOSITE METAL PANEL CANOPY/EYEBROW
6
STUCCO FINISH AND EXTERIOR SHEATHING OVER METAL STUD FRAME
7
RECESSED BRICK WORK WITH INTEGRAL LED LIGHTING
8
ENTRY/EXIT DOOR
9
10
11
EXISTING PROPERTY LINE
REQUIRED STREET WALL SETBACK PER SAN MATEO DOWNTOWN PLAN POLICIES SHOWN
DASHED - ALLOWABLE INTRUSIONS ABOVE THE STREET WALL AREA ARE LIMITED TO MINOR
ARCHITECTURAL DETAILING NOT EXCEEDING FOUR (4) FEET IN HEIGHT AND PARAPETS
INCLUDING RAILINGS AND ARBORS
12
13
CENTERLINE OF PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
MATERIAL PALETTE
G1
GLAZING*
TYPE:
1" INSULATED
COLOR:
LOW TINT
M1
ALUMINUM SUNSCREEN FINISH TO MATCH
MANUFACTURER:
REYNOBOND
SERIES:
COLORWELD 500 XL
FINISH:
BLACK
G2
GLAZING*
TYPE:
1" INSULATED
COLOR:
GRAY TINT
* GLAZING SPECIFIED INDICATES GENERAL TONE AND COLOR. FINAL PERCEIVED COLOR AND
CLARITY WILL VARY DEPENDING ON 1" INSULATED GLAZING SPECIFICATION TO BE DETERMINED AT
TIME OF CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTATION.
14
ARCHITECTURAL MANUFACTURED STONE TRIM
EXPRESSED MULLION
P1
PAINT OVER STUCCO FINISH
MANUFACTURER:
BENJAMIN MOORE
COLOR:
BM 1548 CLASSIC GREY
W1
WOOD CLADDING
MANUFACTURER:
DELTA MILLWORKS
COLOR: 
ACCOYA SMOOTH LIMESTONE
B1
THIN BRICK VENEER
MANUFACTURER:
MCNEAR BRICK & BLOCK
SERIES:
COMMERCIAL
COLOR:                                    SIENNA WIRECUT
P2
PAINT
MANUFACTURER:
BENJAMIN MOORE
COLOR:
BM 989 ALPHANO BIEGE
0
10
20
30
40
5

--- page 115 ---
10
10
13
12
10
4
4
7
14
P1
3RD AVENUE
+34'-10" A.F.F.
4TH LEVEL
+23'-4" A.F.F.
3RD LEVEL
+11'-10" A.F.F.
2ND LEVEL
+46'-4" A.F.F.
5TH LEVEL
+55'-0" A.F.F.
HEIGHT LIMIT      
+1'-4" A.F.F.
OFFICE LOBBY
3
B1
2'-11"
1'-11"
212"
CURB HEIGHT
55'-0"
ROOF PLATE HEIGHT FROM  LOWEST POINT  OF
EXISTING SIDEWALK GRADE
59'-0" T.O. PARAPET FROM LOWEST GRADE POINT AT
EXISTING SIDEWALK GRADE (23.85)
39'-6"
35'-0"
4
10
13
12
10
4
5
7
7
14
W1
P1
+0'-0" A.F.F.
1ST LEVEL
CLAREMONT
3
B1
2'-9"
3'-8"
2'-11"
3'-5"
+34'-10" A.F.F.
4TH LEVEL
+23'-4" A.F.F.
3RD LEVEL
+11'-10" A.F.F.
2ND LEVEL
+46'-4" A.F.F.
5TH LEVEL
+55'-0" A.F.F.
          HEIGHT LIMIT
CURB HEIGHT
55'-0"
ROOF PLATE HEIGHT FROM  LOWEST POINT  OF
EXISTING SIDEWALK GRADE (23.85)
59'-0" T.O. PARAPET FROM LOWEST GRADE POINT AT
EXISTING SIDEWALK GRADE
35'-0"
39'-6"
6"
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A301-303.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:37pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
0
10
20
30
40
5
A 3.02
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
SCALE: 
WEST ELEVATION
6
1/8" = 1'-0"
SCALE: 
NORTH ELEVATION
8
1/8" = 1'-0"
1" INSULATED LOW E GLAZING SYSTEM WITH LOW TINT GLASS IN BLACK ALUMINUM FRAMES
AND VERTICAL BUTT JOINTS
1
KEYNOTES                                                  .
NOTE: NOT ALL KEYNOTES LISTED MAY APPLY TO THIS DRAWING.
2
THIN BRICK OVER METAL FRAMING
3
PRECAST CONCRETE
4
WOOD CLADDING OVER METAL FRAMING
5
1" INSULATED LOW E GLAZING SYSTEM WITH GRAY TINT GLASS IN BLACK ALUMINUM FRAMES
WITH  VERTICAL AND  HORIZONTAL EXPRESSED MULLIONS
ALUMINUM COMPOSITE METAL PANEL CANOPY/EYEBROW
6
STUCCO FINISH AND EXTERIOR SHEATHING OVER METAL STUD FRAME
7
RECESSED BRICK WORK WITH INTEGRAL LED LIGHTING
8
ENTRY/EXIT DOOR
9
10
11
EXISTING PROPERTY LINE
REQUIRED STREET WALL SETBACK PER SAN MATEO DOWNTOWN PLAN POLICIES SHOWN
DASHED - ALLOWABLE INTRUSIONS ABOVE THE STREET WALL AREA ARE LIMITED TO MINOR
ARCHITECTURAL DETAILING NOT EXCEEDING FOUR (4) FEET IN HEIGHT AND PARAPETS
INCLUDING RAILINGS AND ARBORS
12
13
CENTERLINE OF PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
MATERIAL PALETTE
G1
GLAZING*
TYPE:
1" INSULATED
COLOR:
LOW TINT
M1
ALUMINUM SUNSCREEN FINISH TO MATCH
MANUFACTURER:
REYNOBOND
SERIES:
COLORWELD 500 XL
FINISH:
BLACK
G2
GLAZING*
TYPE:
1" INSULATED
COLOR:
GRAY TINT
* GLAZING SPECIFIED INDICATES GENERAL TONE AND COLOR. FINAL PERCEIVED COLOR AND
CLARITY WILL VARY DEPENDING ON 1" INSULATED GLAZING SPECIFICATION TO BE DETERMINED AT
TIME OF CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTATION.
14
ARCHITECTURAL MANUFACTURED STONE TRIM
EXPRESSED MULLION
P1
PAINT OVER STUCCO FINISH
MANUFACTURER:
BENJAMIN MOORE
COLOR:
BM 1548 CLASSIC GREY
W1
WOOD CLADDING
MANUFACTURER:
DELTA MILLWORKS
COLOR: 
ACCOYA SMOOTH LIMESTONE
B1
THIN BRICK VENEER
MANUFACTURER:
MCNEAR BRICK & BLOCK
SERIES:
COMMERCIAL
COLOR:                                    SIENNA WIRECUT
P2
PAINT
MANUFACTURER:
BENJAMIN MOORE
COLOR:
BM 989 ALPHANO BIEGE
0
10
20
30
40
5

--- page 116 ---
3'-11"
3'-2"
3'-2"
3'-11"
4'-0"
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A301-303.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:37pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
A 3.03
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
SCALE: 
3RD AVENUE - ENLARGED ELEVATION - OFFICE LOBBY
4
1/4" = 1'-0"
SCALE: 
S CLAREMONT ST- ENLARGED ELEVATION
12
1/8" = 1'-0"
SCALE: 
3RD AVENUE - ENLARGED ELEVATION - 3RD AND 4TH LEVEL DECKS
10
3/16" = 1'-0"

--- page 117 ---
A
B
C
E
F
S CLAREMONT
FIRST FLOOR OFFICE
SECOND FLOOR OFFICE
THIRD FLOOR OFFICE
FOURTH FLOOR OFFICE
FIFTH FLOOR RESIDENTIAL
6
2
TYP
4
5
2
7
6
1
OFFICE BALCONY
RESIDENTIAL
PATIO
+55'-0" A.F.F.
HEIGHT LIMIT
+34'-10" A.F.F.
4TH LEVEL
+23'-4" A.F.F.
3RD LEVEL
+11'-10" A.F.F.
2ND LEVEL
+46'-4" A.F.F.
5TH LEVEL
+0'-0" A.F.F.
1ST LEVEL
CURB HEIGHT
55'-0"
ROOF PLATE HEIGHT FROM  LOWEST POINT  OF
EXISTING SIDEWALK GRADE
1'-5"
9'-8"
10'-7"
10'-9"
10'-9"
8'-2"
55'-214"
A
A
A
A
A
3RD AVENUE
FIRST FLOOR OFFICE
SECOND FLOOR OFFICE
THIRD FLOOR OFFICE
FOURTH FLOOR OFFICE
FIFTH FLOOR RESIDENTIAL
FIRST FLOOR LOBBY
SECOND FLOOR OFFICE
THIRD FLOOR OFFICE
FOURTH FLOOR OFFICE
OFFICE BALCONY
RESIDENTIAL
PATIO
MECHANICAL YARD
STAIR 2
ELEVATOR
6
6
7
2
5
2
TYP
7
7
+1'-4" A.F.F.
OFFICE LOBBY
+55'-0" A.F.F.
HEIGHT LIMIT
+34'-10" A.F.F.
4TH LEVEL
+23'-4" A.F.F.
3RD LEVEL
+11'-10" A.F.F.
2ND LEVEL
+46'-4" A.F.F.
5TH LEVEL
CURB HEIGHT
55'-0"
ROOF PLATE HEIGHT FROM  LOWEST POINT  OF
EXISTING SIDEWALK GRADE
9'-8"
10'-9"
10'-8"
10'-8"
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2021 Jobs\215293 - 435 E. Third Avenue\01-Planning\2022-0810 04-Fourth Formal PA Submittal\215293-A401.dwg -  Sep 01, 2022, 2:37pm - fabianb
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
04.08.2022
SECOND PLANNING SUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
THIRD PLANNING SUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
FOURTH PLANNING SUBMITTAL
0
10
20
30
40
5
A 4.01
BUILDING SECTIONS
SCALE: 
BUILDING SECTION 
1
1/8" = 1'-0"
SCALE: 
BUILDING SECTION
2
1/8" = 1'-0"
0
10
20
30
40
5
EXTERIOR GLAZING SYSTEM
1
KEYNOTES
2
3
ELEVATOR OVER RIDE BEYOND
4
MECHANICAL UNITS
6
FUTURE SOLAR PVS
EXISTING PROPERTY LINE
REQUIRED STREET WALL SETBACK PER SMMC 27.42.010 SHOWN DASHED; "ALLOWABLE
INTRUSIONS ABOVE THE STREET WALL ARE LIMITED TO MINOR ARCHITECTURAL DETAILING
NOT EXCEEDING FOUR (4) FEET IN HEIGHT AND PARAPETS INCLUDING RAILINGS AND
ARBORS AND LANDSCAPED PLANTING AREAS"
7
5
STRUCTURAL COLUMN

--- page 118 ---
E1.1
ELECTRICAL
SITE LIGHTING - PHOTOMETRIC
CALCULATIONS
1
SITE PLAN - PHOTOMETRIC CALCULATIONS
SCALE: N.T.S
California
1731 Technolody Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, California 95110
P 408.496.0676
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, Arizona 85028
P 602.953.2355    F 602.953.2988
www.arctecinc.com
A R C     T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
in Association with:
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PROJECT NO:
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2017
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that ARC
TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports, electronic
data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC and
ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation. The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC
consultants' instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written
authorization will be at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC
and ARC TEC's consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation
shall indemnify and hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and
agents and employees from and against all claims, damages losses and
expenses, including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of
unauthorized reuse of ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of
service. Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any
scaled dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions
and notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
210260
Warm Shell Office Building, Residential and Site for:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
  W I N D Y  H I L L
property ventures
400 N.McCarthy Blvd. Suite 250 
Copyright  c  2022
info@acies.net
fx: (408) 522-5260
ph: (408) 522-5255
Milpitas, CA 95035
ENGINEERING
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2022-07-18
100% DD

--- page 119 ---
SITE BENCHMARK
BKF CONTROL POINT
ELEVATION = 24.35'
SINGLE-STORY
BUILDING
E A S T   3 R D   A V E N U E
(70' R/W WIDTH - A PUBLIC STREET)
S O U T H   C L A R E M O N T   S T R E E T
(70' R/W WIDTH - A PUBLIC STREET)
PTR PARCEL
LANDS OF MCLOUGHLIN ET AL.
(DN 2020-141609)
 (LOTS 1 & 2, BLOCK 17)
(1 MAPS 45)
APN: 034-181-160
11,035± SQ.FT. OR 0.25 ACRES
(N48°31'20"E)(R2)
N48°34'15"E (R9)
255.08' (R2)(R9)
N48°33'05"E
110.04'
(110')(R1)
S41°28'26"E
(100')(C)(R1)
100.30'
S48°34'15"W
(110')(R1)
110.04'
N41°28'20"W
100.26'
(100')(C)(R1)
N48°34'15"E (R9)
290.02' (R9)
35.00'
35.00'
S41°25'45"E   35.00'
145.07'
19.9'
20.0'
16.8'
16.9'
N48°33'40"E
110.04'
(110')(R1)
(200')
200
EX. NO. 3
P.U.E.
(5827 O.R. 3)
150 CALIFORNIA STREET
SUITE 600
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111
(415) 930-7900
www.bkf.com
PROJECT NO:
\\bkf-sf\vol4\2021\210201_435_e_3rd_ave_san_mateo\ENG\p_sd_dd_cd\C1.0 EXISTING CONDITIONS.dwg -  Aug 05, 2022, 10:52am - wats
In Association with:
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
\\bkf-sf\vol4\2021\210201_435_e_3rd_ave_san_mateo\ENG\p_sd_dd_cd\C1.0 EXISTING CONDITIONS.dwg -  Aug 05, 2022, 10:52am - wats
In Association with:
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL
04.04.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 2
06.22.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 3
08.10.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 4
C1.0
EXISTING CONDITIONS

--- page 120 ---
SITE BENCHMARK
BKF CONTROL POINT
ELEVATION = 24.35'
A
B
C
D
E
F
1
2
3
4
5
6
4.9
5.8
A.9
A.8
D.4
E.9
A
E
1
5
UP
UP
DN
DN
E A S T   3 R D   A V E N U E
(70' R/W WIDTH - A PUBLIC STREET)
S O U T H   C L A R E M O N T   S T R E E T
(70' R/W WIDTH - A PUBLIC STREET)
PTR PARCEL
LANDS OF MCLOUGHLIN ET AL.
(DN 2020-141609)
 (LOTS 1 & 2, BLOCK 17)
(1 MAPS 45)
APN: 034-181-160
11,035± SQ.FT. OR 0.25 ACRES
EX. NO. 3
P.U.E.
(5827 O.R. 3)
NOTES:
PARKING COUNT:
150 CALIFORNIA STREET
SUITE 600
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111
(415) 930-7900
www.bkf.com
PROJECT NO:
\\bkf-sf\vol4\2021\210201_435_e_3rd_ave_san_mateo\ENG\p_sd_dd_cd\C2.0 SITE PLAN.dwg -  Aug 05, 2022, 10:52am - wats
In Association with:
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
\\bkf-sf\vol4\2021\210201_435_e_3rd_ave_san_mateo\ENG\p_sd_dd_cd\C2.0 SITE PLAN.dwg -  Aug 05, 2022, 10:52am - wats
In Association with:
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL
04.04.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 2
06.22.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 3
08.10.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 4
C2.0
SITE PLAN

--- page 121 ---
SITE BENCHMARK
BKF CONTROL POINT
ELEVATION = 24.35'
UP
UP
DN
DN
E A S T   3 R D   A V E N U E
(70' R/W WIDTH - A PUBLIC STREET)
S O U T H   C L A R E M O N T   S T R E E T
(70' R/W WIDTH - A PUBLIC STREET)
PTR PARCEL
LANDS OF MCLOUGHLIN ET AL.
(DN 2020-141609)
 (LOTS 1 & 2, BLOCK 17)
(1 MAPS 45)
APN: 034-181-160
11,035± SQ.FT. OR 0.25 ACRES
EX. NO. 3
P.U.E.
(5827 O.R. 3)
150 CALIFORNIA STREET
SUITE 600
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111
(415) 930-7900
www.bkf.com
PROJECT NO:
\\bkf-sf\vol4\2021\210201_435_e_3rd_ave_san_mateo\ENG\p_sd_dd_cd\C3.0 GRADING PLAN.dwg -  Aug 05, 2022, 10:53am - wats
In Association with:
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
\\bkf-sf\vol4\2021\210201_435_e_3rd_ave_san_mateo\ENG\p_sd_dd_cd\C3.0 GRADING PLAN.dwg -  Aug 05, 2022, 10:53am - wats
In Association with:
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL
04.04.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 2
06.22.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 3
08.10.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 4
C3.0
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN

--- page 122 ---
SITE BENCHMARK
BKF CONTROL POINT
ELEVATION = 24.35'
SINGLE-STORY
BUILDING
A
B
C
D
E
F
1
2
3
4
5
6
4.9
5.8
A.9
A.8
D.4
E.9
A
E
1
5
UP
UP
DN
DN
E A S T   3 R D   A V E N U E
(70' R/W WIDTH - A PUBLIC STREET)
S O U T H   C L A R E M O N T   S T R E E T
(70' R/W WIDTH - A PUBLIC STREET)
PTR PARCEL
LANDS OF MCLOUGHLIN ET AL.
(DN 2020-141609)
 (LOTS 1 & 2, BLOCK 17)
(1 MAPS 45)
APN: 034-181-160
11,035± SQ.FT. OR 0.25 ACRES
EX. NO. 3
P.U.E.
(5827 O.R. 3)
150 CALIFORNIA STREET
SUITE 600
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111
(415) 930-7900
www.bkf.com
PROJECT NO:
\\bkf-sf\vol4\2021\210201_435_e_3rd_ave_san_mateo\ENG\p_sd_dd_cd\C4.0 UTILITY PLAN.dwg -  Aug 05, 2022, 10:53am - wats
In Association with:
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
\\bkf-sf\vol4\2021\210201_435_e_3rd_ave_san_mateo\ENG\p_sd_dd_cd\C4.0 UTILITY PLAN.dwg -  Aug 05, 2022, 10:53am - wats
In Association with:
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL
04.04.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 2
06.22.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 3
08.10.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 4
C4.0
PRELILMINARY UTILITY PLAN

--- page 123 ---
SINGLE-STORY
BUILDING
E A S T   3 R D   A V E N U E
(70' R/W WIDTH - A PUBLIC STREET)
S O U T H   C L A R E M O N T   S T R E E T
(70' R/W WIDTH - A PUBLIC STREET)
BIO-RETENTION PLANTER TREATMENT AREA
DRAINAGE AREADRAINAGE AREA
SIZE (SF)
IMPERVIOUS
AREA (SF)
PERVIOUS AREA
(SF)
EFFECTIVE
IMPERVIOUS
AREA* (SF)
REQUIRED TREATMENT AREA
(SF)/ VOLUME (CFS)
PROVIDED TREATMENT AREA
(SF)/ VOLUME (CFS)
PROPOSED TREATMENT
CONTROLS
DMA-1
523
480
0
480
19
43
LID: FTP-1
DMA-2
1467
1406
0
1406
56
60
LID: FTP-2
DMA-3
516
495
0
495
20
21
LID: FTP-3
DMA-4
709
680
0
680
27
28
LID: FTP-4
DMA-5
1578
1512
0
1512
60
66
LID: FTP-5
DMA-6
1735
1657
0
1657
66
78
LID: FTP-6
DMA-7
613
587
0
587
23
26
LID: FTP-7
DMA-8
2977
2977
0
2975
0.012
33.75
NON-LID: MEDIA FILTER
DMA-9
192
192
0
192
1 EVERGREEN TREES OR 2
DECIDUOUS TREES
2 PROPOSED TRESS
INTERCEPTOR TREE CREDITS
DMA-10
459
459
0
459
1 2x SILVA CELLS
1 2X SILVA CELLS
SILVA CELLS
DMA-11
263
263
0
263
1 2x SILVA CELLS
1 2X SILVA CELLS
SILVA CELLS
DMA-12
4138
4138
0
4138
9 2X SILVA CELLS
9 2X SILVA CELLS
SILVA CELLS
DMA-13
4464
4464
0
4464
9 2X SILVA CELLS
9 2X SILVA CELLS
SILVA CELLS
TOTAL
19634
19310
0
19308
150 CALIFORNIA STREET
SUITE 600
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111
(415) 930-7900
www.bkf.com
PROJECT NO:
\\bkf-sf\vol4\2021\210201_435_e_3rd_ave_san_mateo\ENG\p_sd_dd_cd\C5.0 SWMP PLAN.dwg -  Aug 05, 2022, 10:53am - wats
In Association with:
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
\\bkf-sf\vol4\2021\210201_435_e_3rd_ave_san_mateo\ENG\p_sd_dd_cd\C5.0 SWMP PLAN.dwg -  Aug 05, 2022, 10:53am - wats
In Association with:
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL
04.04.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 2
06.22.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 3
08.10.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 4
C5.0
PRELIMINARY STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT PLAN

--- page 124 ---
SITE BENCHMARK
BKF CONTROL POINT
ELEVATION = 24.35'
SINGLE-STORY
BUILDING
E A S T   3 R D   A V E N U E
(70' R/W WIDTH - A PUBLIC STREET)
S O U T H   C L A R E M O N T   S T R E E T
(70' R/W WIDTH - A PUBLIC STREET)
PTR PARCEL
LANDS OF MCLOUGHLIN ET AL.
(DN 2020-141609)
 (LOTS 1 & 2, BLOCK 17)
(1 MAPS 45)
APN: 034-181-160
11,035± SQ.FT. OR 0.25 ACRES
EX. NO. 3
P.U.E.
(5827 O.R. 3)
EROSION CONTROL LEGEND
150 CALIFORNIA STREET
SUITE 600
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111
(415) 930-7900
www.bkf.com
PROJECT NO:
\\bkf-SF\vol4\2021\210201_435_e_3rd_ave_san_mateo\ENG\p_sd_dd_cd\C6.0 EROSION CONTROL PLAN.dwg -  Aug 05, 2022, 10:53am - wats
In Association with:
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
\\bkf-SF\vol4\2021\210201_435_e_3rd_ave_san_mateo\ENG\p_sd_dd_cd\C6.0 EROSION CONTROL PLAN.dwg -  Aug 05, 2022, 10:53am - wats
In Association with:
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL
04.04.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 2
06.22.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 3
08.10.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 4
C6.0
PRELIMINARY EROSION
CONTROL PLAN

--- page 125 ---
150 CALIFORNIA STREET
SUITE 600
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111
(415) 930-7900
www.bkf.com
PROJECT NO:
\\bkf-SF\vol4\2021\210201_435_e_3rd_ave_san_mateo\ENG\p_sd_dd_cd\C6.0 EROSION CONTROL PLAN.dwg -  Aug 05, 2022, 10:53am - wats
In Association with:
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
\\bkf-SF\vol4\2021\210201_435_e_3rd_ave_san_mateo\ENG\p_sd_dd_cd\C6.0 EROSION CONTROL PLAN.dwg -  Aug 05, 2022, 10:53am - wats
In Association with:
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL
04.04.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 2
06.22.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 3
08.10.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 4
C6.1
EROSION CONTROL
NOTES AND DETAILS

--- page 126 ---
150 CALIFORNIA STREET
SUITE 600
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111
(415) 930-7900
www.bkf.com
PROJECT NO:
\\bkf-SF\vol4\2021\210201_435_e_3rd_ave_san_mateo\ENG\p_sd_dd_cd\C7.0 DETAILS.dwg -  Aug 05, 2022, 10:54am - wats
In Association with:
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
\\bkf-SF\vol4\2021\210201_435_e_3rd_ave_san_mateo\ENG\p_sd_dd_cd\C7.0 DETAILS.dwg -  Aug 05, 2022, 10:54am - wats
In Association with:
215293
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL
04.04.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 2
06.22.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 3
08.10.2022
FORMAL PLANNING SUBMITTAL 4
C7.0
DETAILS
1
-
FLOW-THRU PLANTER ON PODIUM
2
-
MEDIA FILTER

--- page 127 ---
3' min.
clear
3' min.
clear
2'-6" clear
32'-4"
32'-4"
35'-6"
3' min.
clear
3' min.
clear
2'-6" clear
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
Z:\cadfile\cadfiles\Projects_21\21-2385 - 435 E 3rd\Drawings\Plans\Preliminary\Pre2385R3.dwg -  Aug 08, 2022, 3:59pm - Matt
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
KLA - 21-2385
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
02.11.2022
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
www.kla-ca.com
151 N. Norlin St., Sonora, CA 95370
(209)532-2856     (209)532-9510 fax
S
T
A
T
E
 
O
F
 
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
N
I
A
L
I
C
E
N
S
E
D
 
L
A
N
D
S
C
A
P
E
 
A
R
C
H
I
T
E
C
T
Renewal Date
Date
Signature
 
 
 
M
A
T
T
H
E
W 
B
.
 
H
A
W
K
S
 
#
6
5
0
8
Preliminary
Landscape Plan
E a s t     3 r d    A v e n u e
S o u t h    C l a r e m o n t    S t r e e t
Scale: 1" = 10'-0"
Project
Location
Vicinity Map
Not to scale
0'
5'
10'
20'
Irrigation
The entire site will be irrigated using a fully automatic system and designed to meet the City's
Water Efficient Landscaping Ordinance (WELO).  The irrigation system will be subsurface drip
line. Trees will be irrigated on separate circuits from the shrubs with deep root bubblers.  The
system will include in-line valves, quick couplers, and gate valves.  The irrigation controller will be
a "smart" controller by Rainbird, Toro, Hunter, or equal. A complete irrigation design with these
parameters will be provided with the submittal of building permit plans.
Existing Trees to be removed
See Sheet L0.4 for Existing Tree Disposition Plan and Arborist's Tree 
Evaluation Schedule
The landscape design concept for the new mixed use building is to provide an
enjoyable and aesthetic space for the employees, residents, and guests that fits within
the landscape framework of  the surrounding area. Plant material has been selected
that performs well in the special conditions of San Mateo (Sunset Zone #17).
No new turf areas are being added. Low and medium water-use hardy trees, shrubs,
grasses, and groundcover are proposed for the landscape around building. The
landscape (and associated irrigation) has been designed to be compliant with City of
San Mateo Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance.
Special considerations have been provided in selection of plant material that respects
the needs of the office users as well as the guests. Clear and secure view corridors
have been provided to ensure safety of people entering the building as well as moving
around the site.
Landscape Concept
The Preliminary Plant Palette represents a sampling of the types of shrubs and groundcovers that
we anticipate to be appropriate for the location as well as the design style and overall theme.
This is the list from which plant selection will be drawn from.  Not all plants listed within this plant
palette will be used in the final design and some plants not listed may be introduced.  However,
the planting design intent will remain consistent with this plan and plant palette.
Mulch to be evenly distributed throughout all shrub and groundcover areas
unless otherwise noted on plans.  Mulch to be nitrogen stabilized, max. 3/4",
recycled material installed at min. 3" depth.  "Gorilla-Hair" is not acceptable
unless specifically noted for slope areas.
Non-Living Groundcover
Grasses or Accent Plants - 1 gal. @ 24"-36" O.C.
Anigozanthos hybridus
Kangaroo Paw
Calamagrostis actiflora 'Karl Foerster'
Feather Reed Grass
Dianella tasmanica
Tasmanian Flax-lily
Nassella tennuissima
Texas Needle Grass
Low Evergreen Hedge  - 5 gal. @ 24"-30" O.C.
Buxus microphylla japonica 'Green Beauty'
Green Beauty Boxwood
Myrsine africanus
African Boxwood
Myrtus communis 'Compacta' 
Dwarf Myrtle
Preliminary Plant Palette
Street Trees  - 36"-Box
Pistacia chinensis 'Keith Davey'
Chinese Pistache
Shrubs
or species approved by City Aborist
Landscape Areas
At-Grade Planting (Street Landscaping)
261 sf
Raised Planter on upper floors
387 sf
Brick Paving
564 sf
Concrete Sidewalk
2,727 sf
Section - See Sheet L0.2
Section - See Sheet L0.2
Low evergreen hedge
Corner ADA ramp that aligns
with existing cross-walks - typ.
Narrow upright grasses
or accent plants
Typical frontage sidewalk - natural
gray concrete with 36" grid scoring
Street trees in tree grates that align
with the architectural columns - per
the Streetscape Design Guidelines
4' wide brick paving furniture zone per
Sidewalk Standards to match
Planted containers next
to benches
Benches with backs against the
wall facing the street
Circular bike rack - total of 2 bike
racks provided for 4 short term bike
parking spaces.
Circular bike rack - total of 2 bike
racks provided for 4 short term bike
parking spaces.
Location of underground
stormwater media filtration system
- see Civil Engineer's plans
Sidewalk Easement per
Civil Engineer's Plans
Location of existing traffic
signal and street light
Location of existing pedestrian scale pole light
to remain or be replaced in kind in same
location

--- page 128 ---
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
Z:\cadfile\cadfiles\Projects_21\21-2385 - 435 E 3rd\Drawings\Plans\Preliminary\Pre2385R3.dwg -  Aug 08, 2022, 3:59pm - Matt
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
KLA - 21-2385
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
02.11.2022
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
www.kla-ca.com
151 N. Norlin St., Sonora, CA 95370
(209)532-2856     (209)532-9510 fax
S
T
A
T
E
 
O
F
 
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
N
I
A
L
I
C
E
N
S
E
D
 
L
A
N
D
S
C
A
P
E
 
A
R
C
H
I
T
E
C
T
Renewal Date
Date
Signature
 
 
 
M
A
T
T
H
E
W 
B
.
 
H
A
W
K
S
 
#
6
5
0
8
Landscape Sidewalk
Sections
Flex Use/Parking Zone
14'-7" Concrete Sidewalk
6"
48"
7'-6"
Planter/
Furniture
Zone
Flex Use/
Parking Zone
16'-1" Overall Sidewalk
6"
48"
Planter/
Furniture
Zone
8'-0"
Street tree planter
and brick band
Curb and gutter
Tree in tree grate
Street tree planter
and brick band
Curb and gutter
Tree in tree grate
Concrete paving per
design guidelines -
pedestrian zone
Container planting
Bench/container
planting
Concrete paving per
design guidelines -
pedestrian zone
Brick paving - per City of San Mateo Design Guidelines.
McNear Brick and Block - Commercial Series. Color:
Tangiers.
Circular Accent Pots
Tree grate - per City of San Mateo Design Guidelines.
Urban Accessories - OT - Title 24. Color: Powdercoat
RAL 6004 - Maintain existing where feasible
Bench - Victor Stanley 8' long RB-28 bench with optional
intermediate arm rest. Color: Black powder coat
Bike rack - Welle Circular Rack - WCR02-IG. Finish to
be stainless steel. (2) total
SCALE: 
1/8" = 1'-0"
S. Claremont Street Frontage Section
SCALE: 3/16" = 1'-0"
3rd Avenue Frontage Section
Street Frontage per Design Guidelines Sidewalk Standards
Street Frontage per Design Guidelines Sidewalk Standards
Concept Imagery
Through Zone
Through Zone

--- page 129 ---
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
Z:\cadfile\cadfiles\Projects_21\21-2385 - 435 E 3rd\Drawings\Plans\Preliminary\Pre2385R3.dwg -  Aug 08, 2022, 3:59pm - Matt
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
KLA - 21-2385
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
02.11.2022
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
www.kla-ca.com
151 N. Norlin St., Sonora, CA 95370
(209)532-2856     (209)532-9510 fax
S
T
A
T
E
 
O
F
 
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
N
I
A
L
I
C
E
N
S
E
D
 
L
A
N
D
S
C
A
P
E
 
A
R
C
H
I
T
E
C
T
Renewal Date
Date
Signature
 
 
 
M
A
T
T
H
E
W 
B
.
 
H
A
W
K
S
 
#
6
5
0
8
Landscape - Roof
Deck Plans
E a s t     3 r d    A v e n u e
S o u t h    C l a r e m o n t    S t r e e t
E a s t     3 r d    A v e n u e
S o u t h    C l a r e m o n t    S t r e e t
SCALE: 
4th Floor Roof Deck
1" = 10'-0"
SCALE: 
5th Floor Roof Deck
1" = 10'-0"
Mixture of sectional seating and
cafe tables to accommodate
different uses and group sizes.
Tables and chairs along parapet to
provide views to those using the space
Small accent trees planted in
containers at the parapet wall
Stormwater treatment planters
serve as dividers between
residential patios
Large raised planter for
stormwater treatment area
Stormwater treatment planters
serve as dividers between
residential patios
Stormwater treatment planters in
line with architectural treatment

--- page 130 ---
Xref Z:\cadfile\cadfiles\Projects_21\21-2385 - 435 E 3rd\Consultants\Arch-220518\215293 435-Grid.dwg
UP
UP
DN
DN
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
Z:\cadfile\cadfiles\Projects_21\21-2385 - 435 E 3rd\Drawings\Plans\Preliminary\Pre2385R3.dwg -  Aug 08, 2022, 3:59pm - Matt
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
KLA - 21-2385
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
02.11.2022
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
www.kla-ca.com
151 N. Norlin St., Sonora, CA 95370
(209)532-2856     (209)532-9510 fax
S
T
A
T
E
 
O
F
 
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
N
I
A
L
I
C
E
N
S
E
D
 
L
A
N
D
S
C
A
P
E
 
A
R
C
H
I
T
E
C
T
Renewal Date
Date
Signature
 
 
 
M
A
T
T
H
E
W 
B
.
 
H
A
W
K
S
 
#
6
5
0
8
Existing Tree
Disposition Plan
Tree Evaluation Schedule
Existing Tree Disposition
Existing Trees to be Removed
#
Number corresponds to Tree Evaluation Schedule provided in Arborist's Report - Right.
See Sheet L0.5 for full Arborist's Report

--- page 131 ---
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
Z:\cadfile\cadfiles\Projects_21\21-2385 - 435 E 3rd\Drawings\Plans\Preliminary\Pre2385R3.dwg -  Aug 08, 2022, 4:00pm - Matt
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
KLA - 21-2385
PLANNING APPLICATION FOR:
WINDY HILL PROPERTY VENTURES
435 E THIRD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
03.18.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING SUBMITTAL
05.14.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING REVISIONS
07.30.2021
PRELIM. PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
12.03.2021
FIRST FORMAL PLANNING SUBM.
02.11.2022
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
06.22.2022
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
08.10.2022
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL
www.kla-ca.com
151 N. Norlin St., Sonora, CA 95370
(209)532-2856     (209)532-9510 fax
S
T
A
T
E
 
O
F
 
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
N
I
A
L
I
C
E
N
S
E
D
 
L
A
N
D
S
C
A
P
E
 
A
R
C
H
I
T
E
C
T
Renewal Date
Date
Signature
 
 
 
M
A
T
T
H
E
W 
B
.
 
H
A
W
K
S
 
#
6
5
0
8
Arborist's Report

--- page 132 ---
MIXED-USE DATA FORM 
PA NAME: 435 E. 3rd Ave., SPAR + SDPA 
PA: PA-2021-081 
ADDRESS:  435 E. 3rd Ave. 
LAND AREA:  
11,035 sq. ft. (+/- 0.25 acre) 
ZONING:   
CBD/S (Central Business District 
Support) 
GP: Downtown Retail Core Support 
APN:   
034-181-160 
 
PROPOSED: 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED: 
FLOOR AREA:  
 
 
  Office 
33,529 sq. ft. 
- 
  Residential 
6,364 sq. ft. 
- 
TOTAL FLOOR AREA: 
 39,893 sq. ft. 
33,105 sq. ft. 
FLOOR AREA RATIO: 
3.61 1 
3.0 
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY: 
  Base Density 
  Density Bonus 
TOTAL 
 
20 units/acre 
Not requested 
20 units/acre 
 
50 units/acre 
35% of the Base Density 
67.5 units/acre 
RESIDENTIAL UNITS: 
  Base Density 
  Density Bonus 
TOTAL 
 
5 Units 
- 
5 Units 
 
13 Units 
5 Units 
18 Units 
RESIDENTIAL UNIT MIX: 
  Studio 
  1 Bedroom 
  2 or More Bedrooms 
 
1 Unit 
4 Units 
- 
 
- 
- 
- 
BUILDING HEIGHT: 
55’-0” 
55’-0” 
STORIES:  
5  
- 
SETBACKS: 
 
 
  E. 3rd Ave. 
3’-4” 
10’-0” 
  S. Claremont St.   
2’-0” 
10’-0” 
  Side 
0’-10” 
- 
  Rear 
0’-10” 
- 
 
PROPOSED: 
MINIMUM REQUIRED: 
PARKING: 
  Office: 
  Residential: 
TOTAL PARKING: 
- 
-   
- 
None Proposed 
- 
- 
- 
None Required 2 
BICYCLE PARKING: 
  Office: 
  Residential: 
TOTAL BICYCLE PARKING: 
Short-Term 
 
 
4 Spaces 
Long-Term 
 
 
9 Spaces 
Short-term 
2 (1/20,000 sf) 
0 (0.05/unit) 
2 Spaces 
Long-term 
4 (1/10,000 sf) 
5 (1.0/unit) 
9 Spaces 
OPEN SPACE: 
   Commercial: 
   Residential: 
 
600 sq. ft. 
 128 to 415 sq. ft./unit 
 
335 sq. ft. (1% of commercial sq. ft.) 
80 sq. ft./unit 
 
1 The project requests an Incentive pursuant to State Density Bonus law. 
2 Assembly Bill (AB) 2097, effective January 1, 2023, prohibits the City from imposing parking requirements for projects within one-
half mile of a major public transit stop.

--- page 133 ---
Rendell Bustos 
Senior Planner 
City of San Mateo 
Community Development Department – Planning Division 
330 West 20th Ave. 
San Mateo, CA 94403-1388 
 
November 4, 2022 
 
RE: 435 E. 3rd Avenue-Project Hearing Date 
 
Dear Mr. Bustos: 
 
I am reaching out to you regarding the hearing date for the 435 E. 3rd Avenue 
Project (PA 21-081).  Windy Hill would formally like to request that the project be 
heard at the upcoming January 10, 2023 Planning Commission meeting.  This 
would allow the project to be reviewed in accordance with state law resulting from 
the passage AB 2097 that will become effective on January 1, 2023. Specifically, 
this bill allows for reduced parking in qualifying projects adjacent to transit.  As 
such, the only change to the proposed project includes the payment of Parking In-
Lieu fees, all other aspects of the project would remain the same.  Please feel 
free to contact me if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Mike Field, Partner 
Windy Hill Property Ventures 
 
cc.  Leigh Prince, Jorgenson Siegel McClure & Flegel 
       Lisa Ring, LOR Planning and Environmental Consulting, INC

--- page 134 ---
W I L L I A M  L .  M c C L U R E  
J O H N  L .  F L E G E L  
D A N  K .  S I E G E L  
J E N N I F E R  H .  F R I E D M A N  
M I N D I E  S .  R O M A N O W S K Y  
L E I G H  F .  P R I N C E  
D A V I D  L .  A C H  
G R E G O R Y  K .  K L I N G S P O R N  
N I C O L A S  A .  F L E G E L  
K R I S T I N A   A .  F E N T O N  
C A R A  E .  S I L V E R  
K I M B E R L Y  J .  B R U M M E R  
C A M A S  J .  S T E I N M E T Z  
P H I L I P  S .  S O U S A  
      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  
B R I T T N E Y  L .  S T A N D L E Y  
C H R I S T I A N  D .  P E T R A N G E L O  
J O S E P H  H .  F E L D M A N  
 
JORGENSON, SIEGEL, McCLURE & FLEGEL, LLP 
ATTORNEYS AT LAW 
1 1 0 0  A L M A  S T R E E T ,  S U I T E  2 1 0  
M E N L O  P A R K ,  C A L I F O R N I A  9 4 0 2 5 - 3 3 9 2  
( 6 5 0 )  3 2 4 - 9 3 0 0  
F A C S I M I L E  ( 6 5 0 )  3 2 4 - 0 2 2 7  
w w w . j s m f . c o m  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 November 4, 2022 
 
 
 
O F  C O U N S E L  
K E N T  M I T C H E L L  
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  
 
R E T I R E D  
J O H N  D .  J O R G E N S O N  
M A R G A R E T  A .  S L O A N  
D I A N E  S .  G R E E N B E R G  
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  
 
D E C E A S E D  
M A R V I N  S .  S I E G E L  
( 1 9 3 6  -  2 0 1 2 )  
J O H N  R . C O S G R O V E  
( 1 9 3 2  -  2 0 1 7 )  
        
        
 
 
Sent via email: rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner 
 
City of San Mateo  
Community Development Department – Planning Division 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403-1388 
 
Re: 
Updated State Density Bonus Law Concession and Waiver Request 
 
Dear Mr. Bustos, 
 
This letter is written on behalf of Windy Hill Property Ventures (“Windy Hill”) regarding 
their project located at 435 E. 3rd Avenue in San Mateo. The project includes 
redevelopment of the northwest corner of E. 3rd Avenue and S. Claremont Street in San 
Mateo. The project site is approximately 10,980 square feet and is located in downtown 
San Mateo within 0.5 mile of the Downtown Caltrain Station.  The project site is zoned 
CBD Support District-Central Business District Support and is within the City of San 
Mateo (“City”) Central Parking Improvement District. The zoning allows for office, 
commercial and residential uses to be developed with a 3.0 floor area ratio. 
 
The proposed project is mixed-use with office and residential.  The project would consist 
of 33,938 square feet of office space on the first through fourth levels and five residential 
units on the fifth level. One of the residential units would be restricted as affordable to a 
low-income household. The provision of 20 percent of the housing units as affordable 
exceeds the City’s inclusionary requirement and entitles the project to two incentives, 
waivers and parking modifications pursuant to state law (Government Code Section 
65915). Incentives are intended to assist in lowering the cost to build a project that 
includes affordable housing and are presumed to result in cost reductions. Bankers Hill

--- page 135 ---
November 4, 2022 
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner 
Re: Updated State Density Bonus Law Concession and Waiver Request 
Page 2 
 
 
v. City of San Diego (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 755. Windy Hill is requesting one incentive to 
increase the allowable floor area ratio. Previously Windy Hill was requesting a second 
incentive to modify City parking requirements.  However, Assembly Bill (“AB”) 2097, 
effective on January 1, 2023, prohibits the City from imposing minimum parking 
requirements on any residential, commercial, or other development project located within 
0.5 mile of major transit.  This project is located within 0.5 miles of the Downtown Caltrain 
Station.  Therefore, pursuant to AB 2097, the City may not impose minimum parking 
requirements making a concession to modify parking requirements unnecessary.     
 
Incentive to increase floor area ratio.    
Windy Hill is requesting an incentive to modify Municipal Code Section 27.38.060 to allow 
an increase in floor area ratio from 3.0 to 3.66 to accommodate an additional 7,274 square 
feet. This incentive allows for the development of the residential units and additional 
square footage, which results in decreased costs of construction per square foot.  
Specifically, fixed hard and soft costs of the project such as land price, design and 
engineering fees, cost of shared spaces, and financial interest and accounting fees will 
be spread over a larger project.  This results in comparative savings in construction costs 
of $15 per square foot over the additional 7,275 square feet which makes the provision 
of the affordable unit feasible. 
   
The loss to Windy Hill is approximately $1,260,000 for the affordable unit. The cost for 
the affordable unit in this Project may be higher than the City usually sees because it is a 
mixed-use project with a small number of affordable units on a very small site. This means 
the costs for things like the residential lobby and dedicated residential elevator are shared 
across a much smaller number of units which results in a higher cost per unit. The 
increased floor area saves the approximately $109,125 which in less than the cost to 
provide the affordable unit. In addition, AB 2097 which eliminates minimum parking 
requirement reduces project costs making the affordable unit possible. 
 
State law allows incentives to apply to non-residential portion of mixed-use project. 
State density bonus law (Government Code Section 65915) does not require incentives 
to apply to the residential portion of a project. As will be discussed in this letter, the goal 
of state law is the provision of housing, and nothing prohibits an incentive from applying 
to the non-residential portion of a mixed-use project. 
 
An incentive is defined as a reduction in site development standards or a modification of 
zoning code requirements or architectural design requirements, including but not limited 
to, a reduction in the ratio of vehicular parking spaces that would otherwise be required 
that results in identifiable and actual cost reductions, to provide for affordable housing 
costs.  Government Code Section 65915(k)(1).  A “development standard” is defined as 
a site or construction condition that applies to a residential development.  Government 
Code Section 65915(o)(1).  If the definition of an incentive were limited to a reduction in 
site development standards, the position that the incentive must apply to the residential 
portion of a mixed-use project might have merit.  However, the definition of an incentive

--- page 136 ---
November 4, 2022 
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner 
Re: Updated State Density Bonus Law Concession and Waiver Request 
Page 3 
 
 
also includes modifications of zoning code requirements or architectural design 
requirements.  There is no indication that a zoning code modification must be limited to a 
residential requirement. Further, the definition of incentive includes other regulatory 
incentives proposed by the developer that result in identifiable and actual cost reductions 
to provide for affordable housing cost. Government Code Section 65915(k)(3). Thus, state 
law provides a catch all which could be used to apply an incentive to the non-residential 
portion of a mixed-use project.   
 
State law reduces the project’s mixed-use parking requirement wholistically. 
This project is located within 0.5 mile of the Downtown Caltrain Station.  As noted above, 
AB 2097 eliminates minimum parking requirements for development projects located 
within 0.5 mile of major transit.  Even if AB 2097 were not applicable, state law reduces 
and even allows the elimination of parking requirements.  See Government Code Section 
65915(p)(2)(A) reducing the requirement to 0.5 space per unit for projects within 0.5 mile 
of major transit. Additionally, applicants may request parking incentives beyond those 
provided in state law. Government Code Section 65915(p)(6). Furthermore, the law 
specifically provides that a city is not precluded from reducing or eliminating a parking 
requirement for development projects of any type. Government Code Section 
65915(p)(7). Thus, state law gives discretion to and anticipates that concessions will be 
granted to reduce or eliminate parking requirements not only for residential projects, but 
any type of project including mixed-use projects. A wholistic approach to parking for a 
mixed-use project is also supported by Government Code Section 65915(p)(5) that 
rounds the total number of parking spaces for a development and does not myopically 
focus on the number of residential spaces.  All of this is consistent with AB 2097 changes 
to parking requirements for development projects close to transit. 
 
 
The law is to be interpreted liberally in favor of producing the maximum number of total 
housing units. Government Code Section 65915(r). In the absence of the requested 
incentives (and the parking reduction provided by AB 2097), it would not be financially 
feasible for Windy Hill to provide five housing units, one of which would be reserved for 
low-income households. For all of the foregoing reasons, state law supports the use and 
approval of the requested incentives. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Leigh Prince 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Leigh F. Prince 
 
 
cc: 
Lisa Ring (via email: lisaring88@gmail.com) 
       
Michael Field (via email: mike@windyhillpv.com)

--- page 137 ---
November 4, 2022 
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner 
Re: Updated State Density Bonus Law Concession and Waiver Request 
Page 4 
 
 
 
Evan Sockalosky (via email: evans@arctecinc.com)  
Gabrielle Whelan, Asst. City Attorney (via email: gwhelan@cityofsanmateo.org)  
Prasanna Rasiah, City Attorney (via email: prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org)

--- page 138 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 11/23/21 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
CALL TO ORDER  
This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Bill AB361; in which Brown Act regulations are 
relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency. 
 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
ROLL CALL 
Remote:  
Vice-Chair Margaret Williams, and Commissioners John Ebneter, Adam Nugent and Seema Patel 
Absent:  
Chair Ramiro Maldonado 
 
CONSENT CALENDAR 
1. Planning Commission Meeting Minutes – Approval 
Approve the minutes of the Planning Commission Regular meetings of October 12, 2021 and  
October 26, 2021.  
 
Moved: 
Ebneter, Seconded: Nugent 
Ayes: 
Williams, Ebneter, Nugent, Patel 
Absent: 
Maldonado 
Noes:  
None  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: None. 
 
STUDY SESSION 
2. Pre-Application Review for a Proposed Five-Story Residential Building at 222 S. Fremont Street (Gateway Terrace 
Project) 
Associate Planner Linda Ly presented an overview of the architectural and site design of the proposed project. 
Applicant Regan Catanzaro presented a overview of the proposed project with background on various site and 
architectural design elements. 
Commissioner Questions:  
Commission asked questions on zoning regulations, objective design standard, trash receptacle placement and 
maintenance responsibility, parking vs. additional units, and communication with labor trades. 
Public Comment:  
Richard Hedges likes the location, walkability, public transportation options and would like to see the number of 
units maintained but would prefer a more modern design.  
Ben commented that the downtown history is being destroyed and feels that height transition is not acceptable 
based on the height of this proposed development.  
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
Ramiro Maldonado, Chair 
Margaret Williams, Vice Chair 
John Ebneter 
Adam Nugent 
Seema Patel 
 
City of San Mateo 
Regular Meeting Minutes 
Planning Commission 
 
Tuesday, November 23, 2021 
Remote 7:00 PM 
Regular Meeting 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 21F94AC1-F3D2-49F1-9D4C-AA6450E755AA

--- page 139 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 11/23/21 
2 
 
Laurie Watanuki noted that the proposed architecture does not fits the neighborhood, feels that mass and scale 
could be changed, that parking is insufficient, and amenities of a meeting and fitness center should be added to this 
project. She also noted that a traffic study should be done on 5th and Humboldt streets to address traffic congestion.  
George likes the Mediterranean design, but has concerns about transient uses of property in this building and 
encourages deed restrictions on sales and lease restrictions on rentals for transient residencies.  
Noreen Chui expressed concerns about project impacting the historic nature of neighborhood, about pedestrian and 
driving safety, traffic congestion, and parking impacts. 
Commissioners Comments:  
The Commission expressed general support for the project, noting the improved site, landscaping, and architectural 
design, but more work needs to be done with massing and design to reduce impact on neighborhood; provide more 
outdoor amenities for residents; consider moving trash area inside building; project should maximize density; 
include more 2- and 3-bedroom units for families; provide more landscaping; and consider including additional 
bicycle parking. 
 
3.    Pre-Application Review for a Proposed Five-Story Mixed-Use Building at 435 E. 3rd Avenue (PA-2021-021)  
        Senior Planner Rendell Bustos presented an overview of the proposed project including building design,  
        floor area ratio, and off-street parking.  
         
        Applicant Mike Fields presented a more detailed description of the proposed project. 
Commissioner Questions:  
Commissioners asked clarifying questions about brick façade, art on site, zoning designation, parking in-lieu fees and 
calculations, commercial linkage fees, sewer capacity, and barriers from maximizing housing capacity. 
Public Comments:  
Laurie Watanuki likes the design and had questions about required off-street parking.  
Richard Hedges likes walkability and design in the downtown area and had concerns about parking for residents.  
Olya Derby had questions about building façade. 
George Derby likes the design but has concerns about not having off-street parking. 
Commissioner Comments:  
The Commission expressed general support, noting that the design fit the area, with some adjustments. 
Commissioners noted questions/concerns about proposed project having no off-street parking, in-lieu fees and 
wanting more information in the parking study. Concern was also noted about housing/commercial ratio imbalance 
on this and other projects and the importance of building housing for downtown viability.  
 
NEW BUSINESS 
3. New Commission Representative for Civic Arts Committee 
CDD Deputy Director Zach Dahl discussed the opening for a Planning Commissioner on the Civic Arts Committee  
and provided information on the role and time commitment.  
This item was continued to the next planning commission meeting.  
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
CDD Deputy Director Zachary Dahl provided updates on items for future Planning Commission meetings.  
 
ADJOURNMENT 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 21F94AC1-F3D2-49F1-9D4C-AA6450E755AA

--- page 140 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 11/23/21 
3 
 
The meeting adjourned at 10:27pm. 
 
 
 
 
APPROVED BY: 
 
 
 
___________________________________ 
Margaret Williams, Vice-Chair 
 
 
 
SUBMITTED BY: 
 
 
 
___________________________________ 
Mary Way, Administrative Assistant 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 21F94AC1-F3D2-49F1-9D4C-AA6450E755AA

--- page 141 ---
Certificate Of Completion
Envelope Id: 21F94AC1F3D249F19D4CAA6450E755AA
Status: Completed
Subject: Please DocuSign PC Regular Meeting Minutes 11.23.2021
Source Envelope: 
Document Pages: 3
Signatures: 2
Envelope Originator: 
Certificate Pages: 5
Initials: 0
Mary Way
AutoNav: Enabled
EnvelopeId Stamping: Enabled
Time Zone: (UTC-08:00) Pacific Time (US & Canada)
330 W. 20th Avenue
City Clerk's Office
San Mateo, CA  94403
mway@cityofsanmateo.org
IP Address: 64.207.219.72  
Record Tracking
Status: Original
             1/26/2022 10:08:22 AM
Holder: Mary Way
             mway@cityofsanmateo.org
Location: DocuSign
Signer Events
Signature
Timestamp
Mary Way
mway@cityofsanmateo.org
Administrative Assistant
City of San Mateo
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Signature Adoption: Drawn on Device
Using IP Address: 76.14.19.215
Sent: 1/26/2022 10:10:50 AM
Viewed: 1/26/2022 10:11:04 AM 
Signed: 1/26/2022 10:11:16 AM
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Not Offered via DocuSign
Margaret Williams
mwilliams@cityofsanmateo.org
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Signature Adoption: Pre-selected Style
Using IP Address: 76.14.10.230
Sent: 1/26/2022 10:11:17 AM
Resent: 2/15/2022 1:29:54 PM
Viewed: 2/15/2022 2:22:07 PM 
Signed: 2/15/2022 2:23:16 PM
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Accepted: 2/15/2022 2:22:07 PM
      ID: d1092782-20fe-41cf-ae13-bcb118ab7256
In Person Signer Events
Signature
Timestamp
Editor Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Agent Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Intermediary Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Certified Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Carbon Copy Events
Status
Timestamp
Witness Events
Signature
Timestamp
Notary Events
Signature
Timestamp
Envelope Summary Events
Status
Timestamps
Envelope Sent
Hashed/Encrypted
1/26/2022 10:10:50 AM
Certified Delivered
Security Checked
2/15/2022 2:22:07 PM

--- page 142 ---
Envelope Summary Events
Status
Timestamps
Signing Complete
Security Checked
2/15/2022 2:23:16 PM
Completed
Security Checked
2/15/2022 2:23:16 PM
Payment Events
Status
Timestamps
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure

--- page 143 ---
CONSUMER DISCLOSURE
From time to time, Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo (we, us or Company) may be required by
law to provide to you certain written notices or disclosures. Described below are the terms and
conditions for providing to you such notices and disclosures electronically through the
DocuSign, Inc. (DocuSign) electronic signing system. Please read the information below
carefully and thoroughly, and if you can access this information electronically to your
satisfaction and agree to these terms and conditions, please confirm your agreement by clicking
the ‘I agree’ button at the bottom of this document. 
Getting paper copies
At any time, you may request from us a paper copy of any record provided or made available
electronically to you by us. You will have the ability to download and print documents we send
to you through the DocuSign system during and immediately after signing session and, if you
elect to create a DocuSign signer account, you may access them for a limited period of time
(usually 30 days) after such documents are first sent to you. After such time, if you wish for us to
send you paper copies of any such documents from our office to you, you will be charged a
$0.00 per-page fee. You may request delivery of such paper copies from us by following the
procedure described below. 
Withdrawing your consent 
If you decide to receive notices and disclosures from us electronically, you may at any time
change your mind and tell us that thereafter you want to receive required notices and disclosures
only in paper format. How you must inform us of your decision to receive future notices and
disclosure in paper format and withdraw your consent to receive notices and disclosures
electronically is described below. 
Consequences of changing your mind
If you elect to receive required notices and disclosures only in paper format, it will slow the
speed at which we can complete certain steps in transactions with you and delivering services to
you because we will need first to send the required notices or disclosures to you in paper format,
and then wait until we receive back from you your acknowledgment of your receipt of such
paper notices or disclosures. To indicate to us that you are changing your mind, you must
withdraw your consent using the DocuSign ‘Withdraw Consent’ form on the signing page of a
DocuSign envelope instead of signing it. This will indicate to us that you have withdrawn your
consent to receive required notices and disclosures electronically from us and you will no longer
be able to use the DocuSign system to receive required notices and consents electronically from
us or to sign electronically documents from us. 
All notices and disclosures will be sent to you electronically
Unless you tell us otherwise in accordance with the procedures described herein, we will provide
electronically to you through the DocuSign system all required notices, disclosures,
authorizations, acknowledgements, and other documents that are required to be provided or
made available to you during the course of our relationship with you. To reduce the chance of
you inadvertently not receiving any notice or disclosure, we prefer to provide all of the required
notices and disclosures to you by the same method and to the same address that you have given
us. Thus, you can receive all the disclosures and notices electronically or in paper format through
the paper mail delivery system. If you do not agree with this process, please let us know as
described below. Please also see the paragraph immediately above that describes the
consequences of your electing not to receive delivery of the notices and disclosures
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure created on: 6/13/2017 8:08:23 AM
Parties agreed to: Margaret Williams

--- page 144 ---
electronically from us. 
How to contact Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo:
You may contact us to let us know of your changes as to how we may contact you electronically,
to request paper copies of certain information from us, and to withdraw your prior consent to
receive notices and disclosures electronically as follows:
 To contact us by email send messages to: cravi@cityofsanmateo.org
To advise Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo of your new e-mail address 
To let us know of a change in your e-mail address where we should send notices and disclosures
electronically to you, you must send an email message to us at cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in
the body of such request you must state: your previous e-mail address, your new e-mail address.  
We do not require any other information from you to change your email address..  
In addition, you must notify DocuSign, Inc. to arrange for your new email address to be reflected
in your DocuSign account by following the process for changing e-mail in the DocuSign system. 
To request paper copies from Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo
To request delivery from us of paper copies of the notices and disclosures previously provided
by us to you electronically, you must send us an e-mail to cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in the
body of such request you must state your e-mail address, full name, US Postal address, and
telephone number. We will bill you for any fees at that time, if any.
To withdraw your consent with Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo
To inform us that you no longer want to receive future notices and disclosures in electronic
format you may:
i. decline to sign a document from within your DocuSign session, and on the subsequent
page, select the check-box indicating you wish to withdraw your consent, or you may;
ii. send us an e-mail to cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in the body of such request you
must state your e-mail, full name, US Postal Address, and telephone number. We do not
need any other information from you to withdraw consent..  The consequences of your
withdrawing consent for online documents will be that transactions may take a longer time
to process.. 
Required hardware and software
Operating Systems: 
Windows® 2000, Windows® XP, Windows
Vista®; Mac OS® X 
Browsers: 
Final release versions of Internet Explorer® 6.0
or above (Windows only); Mozilla Firefox 2.0
or above (Windows and Mac); Safari™ 3.0 or
above (Mac only) 
PDF Reader: 
Acrobat® or similar software may be required
to view and print PDF files 
Screen Resolution: 
800 x 600 minimum 
Enabled Security Settings: 
Allow per session cookies
 
** These minimum requirements are subject to change. If these requirements change, you will be
asked to re-accept the disclosure. Pre-release (e.g. beta) versions of operating systems and
browsers are not supported. 
Acknowledging your access and consent to receive materials electronically

--- page 145 ---
To confirm to us that you can access this information electronically, which will be similar to
other electronic notices and disclosures that we will provide to you, please verify that you were
able to read this electronic disclosure and that you also were able to print on paper or
electronically save this page for your future reference and access or that you were able to e-mail
this disclosure and consent to an address where you will be able to print on paper or save it for
your future reference and access. Further, if you consent to receiving notices and disclosures
exclusively in electronic format on the terms and conditions described above, please let us know
by clicking the ‘I agree’ button below. 
By checking the ‘I agree’ box, I confirm that: 
•
I can access and read this Electronic CONSENT TO ELECTRONIC RECEIPT OF
ELECTRONIC CONSUMER DISCLOSURES document; and
 
•
I can print on paper the disclosure or save or send the disclosure to a place where I can
print it, for future reference and access; and
 
•
Until or unless I notify Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo as described above, I consent to
receive from exclusively through electronic means all notices, disclosures, authorizations,
acknowledgements, and other documents that are required to be provided or made
available to me by  Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo during the course of my
relationship with you.

--- page 146 ---
Final Draft 
435 East 3rd Avenue 
TIA 
 
 
 
Prepared for:  
City of San Mateo 
 
 
 
August 2, 2022 
 
 
SF21-1188.02

--- page 147 ---
Table of Contents 
Executive Summary ....................................................................................................................... 1 
Recommendations ....................................................................................................................................................................... 1 
Introduction ................................................................................................................................... 2 
Study Area and Scenarios ......................................................................................................................................................... 2 
435 East 3rd Avenue Project Description ................................................................................... 5 
Existing Transportation Conditions ............................................................................................. 6 
Existing Roadway Network ....................................................................................................................................................... 6 
Existing Pedestrian Facilities .................................................................................................................................................... 7 
Existing Bicycle Facilities ............................................................................................................................................................ 7 
Existing Transit Service .............................................................................................................................................................12 
Existing Vehicle Volumes and Lane Configurations .....................................................................................................15 
Existing Intersection Level of Service .................................................................................................................................15 
Existing Parking Conditions ...................................................................................................................................................18 
Opening Year Conditions ........................................................................................................... 19 
Opening Year Conditions Intersection Level of Service ..............................................................................................22 
Project Conditions ....................................................................................................................... 23 
Project Trip Generation and Distribution .........................................................................................................................23 
Trip Generation ...................................................................................................................................................................23 
Trip Distribution .................................................................................................................................................................25 
Plus Project VMT ........................................................................................................................................................................27 
VMT Screening ....................................................................................................................................................................27 
Opening Year Plus Project Vehicle Volumes and Level of Service .........................................................................28 
Additional Transportation Analysis ........................................................................................... 30 
Vehicle Site Access and Circulation ....................................................................................................................................30 
Loading and Curbside Management .........................................................................................................................31 
Pedestrian & Bicycle Site Access and Circulation ..........................................................................................................31 
Pedestrian Access ..............................................................................................................................................................31 
Bicycle Access ......................................................................................................................................................................33 
Transit Access and Circulation ..............................................................................................................................................34 
Hazards and Emergency Vehicle Access ...........................................................................................................................34 
Neighborhood Traffic ...............................................................................................................................................................34

--- page 148 ---
Conclusion .................................................................................................................................... 37 
 
Appendices 
 
Appendix A: LOS Analysis Screening Memorandum 
Appendix B:  LOS Calculation Worksheet

--- page 149 ---
List of Figures 
 
Figure 1: Project Location .................................................................................................................................................................. 4 
Figure 2: Existing and Proposed Bicycle Facilities ................................................................................................................. 11 
Figure 3: Existing Transit Routes .................................................................................................................................................. 14 
Figure 4: Existing Vehicle Volumes ............................................................................................................................................. 16 
Figure 5: Background Project Sites ............................................................................................................................................. 20 
Figure 6: Opening Year Vehicle Volumes................................................................................................................................. 21 
Figure 7: Trip Distribution and Assignment of Project Trips ............................................................................................ 26 
Figure 8: Opening Year Plus Project Vehicle Volumes ........................................................................................................ 29 
Figure 9: Project Site Plan .............................................................................................................................................................. 36 
 
 
List of Tables 
 
Table 1: Existing Transit Service ................................................................................................................................................... 12 
Table 2: Signalized Intersection LOS Criteria .......................................................................................................................... 17 
Table 3: Unsignalized Intersection LOS Criteria .................................................................................................................... 17 
Table 4: Existing LOS and Delay Results ................................................................................................................................... 18 
Table 5: Opening Year LOS and Delay Results ...................................................................................................................... 22 
Table 6: Project Vehicle Trip Generation .................................................................................................................................. 24 
Table 7: Opening Year Plus Project LOS and Delay Results ............................................................................................. 28

--- page 150 ---
*Image is a current representation of the project
acre parcel
story mixed use building
floors of office space
residential units
on-site parking spaces
¼
5
4
5
0
ADDITIONAL TRANSPORTATION ANALYSIS
This transportation impact assessment (TIA) reviews transportation conditions at and adjacent to 435 East 3rd 
Avenue, in the City of San Mateo. The proposed project will not result in CEQA impacts on VMT, bicycle, 
pedestrian, or transit circulation, or hazards and emergency access. The addition of project traffic would not 
result in unacceptable traffic operations. The project presents no adverse circulation issues and meets the 
code of design except for the pedestrian facilities. The following summarizes the findings in the TIA and the 
recommended changes to the site plan would ensure consistency with San Mateo standards and best 
planning practices. 
THE PROJECT
» No additional delay during commute hours added by the project
» Acceptable traffic operations for all scenarios at all intersections
» No significant VMT impact due to proximity to high quality transit 
(within a 1/2 mile of San Mateo Caltrain Station)
»  Minimal impact on neighborhood traffic
» No new hazards or impact to emergency access
STUDY INTERSECTIONS & CEQA IMPACTS
» 9 long-term bicycle parking spaces on-site
» 4 short-term bicycle parking spaces on-site
» 2 pedestrian access points
» Proposed sidewalks range between 15’-16’ 
» Proposed sidewalks meet ADA standards
» 49 new AM peak hour and 51 new PM peak hour 
vehicle trips compared to existing land uses
» Vehicle trips would disperse to nearby parking 
facilities, such as Kiku Crossing and Main Street 
Garage
» Project will generate new riders on Caltrain and 
SamTrans
No adverse effects to vehicle, transit, bicycle, or pedestrian circulation are created by the project.
RECOMMENDATIONS
S. Claremont St
S. Railroad Ave
E. 3rd Ave
E. 2nd Ave
Caltrain tracks
» The proposed pedestrian facilities are inconsistent with the San Mateo Pedestrian Master Plan. The 
project sponsor should widen the proposed sidewalks along South Claremont Street. However, the City’s 
Municipal Code SMMC 27.39.090 requires zero-setbacks unless a setback is provided for landscaping. 
 » Add advance stop bars at each intersection approach in accordance with City of San Mateo’s Pedestrian 
Design Guidelines. 
» The City could consider signal timing adjustments, such as placing all signals on pedestrian recall and 
installing extinguishable no right turn on red signs during leading pedestrian intervals.
435 East 3rd Avenue TIA Executive Summary

--- page 151 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 2 
Introduction 
This transportation impact assessment (TIA) reviews transportation conditions at and adjacent to the 
mixed-use project located at 435 East 3rd Avenue in the City of San Mateo. Conditions are evaluated for 
the current site without the proposed project, for plus project near-term conditions, and for cumulative 
2040 conditions with and without the proposed project. The topics presented herein are based on the City 
of San Mateo’s Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Guidelines (July 2020) and are intended to disclose the 
transportation related CEQA impacts and local transportation effects of the project. These topics include 
an assessment of vehicle level of service, vehicle miles traveled, site access and circulation, driveway site 
distance and vehicle queuing, parking, hazards and emergency vehicle access, and neighborhood traffic. 
Study Area and Scenarios 
The project site consists of a 10,980 square foot (0.25 acre) parcel at the corner of East 3rd Avenue and 
South Claremont Street. The project site is bounded directly to the north by restaurant uses along East 3rd 
Avenue, and office and residential uses directly to the west. The study area, as shown in Figure 1 is 
situated in downtown San Mateo between El Camino Real and U.S. 101. The project site is located three 
blocks from the San Mateo Caltrain station.  
Based on recent changes to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) guidelines with the 
implementation of SB 743 and guidance from the OPR, VMT is recommended as the appropriate measure 
of transportation impacts under CEQA. LOS and other similar vehicle delay or capacity metrics can no 
longer serve as transportation impact metrics for CEQA analysis. As stated in the City’s TIA Guidelines, the 
City of San Mateo shifted to using VMT for CEQA impact evaluation but continues to evaluate LOS 
analysis for land use development projects through the non-CEQA local transportation analysis. Based on 
these guidelines, three intersections would qualify as study intersections within the project vicinity: 
East 2nd Avenue and South Claremont Street 
East 3rd Avenue and South Claremont Street 
East 3rd Avenue and South Railroad Avenue 
Transportation conditions were evaluated for the weekday peak periods of 7:00-9:00 AM and 4:00-6:00 
PM in a manner consistent with the TIA Guidelines. Traffic conditions were evaluated for the 
following scenarios: 
• 
Existing Conditions: Existing traffic volumes were based on historic Streetlight data in addition to 
2019 counts collected at the intersection of East 3rd Avenue and South Claremont Street by the 
City of San Mateo. Due to COVID-19, historic 2019 counts were used in lieu of in-person vehicle 
counts.  
Opening Year Conditions: Existing traffic volumes plus traffic generated by approved but not yet 
completed or occupied developments near the project site.

--- page 152 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 3 
Opening Year Plus Project Conditions: Project generated trips added to opening year traffic volumes. 
However, as presented in Appendix A, due to the lack of on-site parking and the small size of the project, 
the proposed project would not substantially alter traffic operations surrounding the project site in a 
manner that would conflict with city policies or standards. Therefore, given that LOS is not allowed for 
CEQA purposes, this study does not include an assessment of LOS or traffic operations for the cumulative 
conditions. This study does report an assessment of LOS and traffic operations for the three scenarios 
listed above.

--- page 153 ---
N:\Projects\2021_Projects\SF21-1188_San Mateo Block 21_435 E 3rd Ave\Graphics\GIS\Block21_435E3rdAve_Basemap\Block21_435E3rdAve_Basemap.aprx
Project Location
Figure 1
Project Site
1
2
3
FIRE
STATION
24
FIRE
STATION
21
CENTRAL PARK
SAN MATEO
SUNNYBRAE
ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL
MILLS
PENINSULA
HOSPITAL
ST. MATTHEW'S
EPISCOPAL
DAY SCHOOL
GATEWAY
PARK
SAN MATEO
PUBLIC LIBRARY
South Ellsworth Avenue
South Grant Street
9th Avenue
South B Street
SR 82/El Camino Real
South Humboldt Street
East 3rd Avenue
11th Avenue
South San Mateo Drive
Baldwin Avenue
6th Avenue
8th Avenue
South Idaho Street
Laurel Avenue
North B Street
1st Avenue
East 4th Avenue
Mission Drive
Rosewood Drive
10th Avenue
US 101
South Railroad Avenue
South Delaware Street
North Claremont Street
Cypress Avenue
South Claremont Street
7th Avenue
South Eldorado Street
Tilton Avenue
East 5th Avenue
2nd Avenue
South Fremont Street
San Mateo
Caltrain Station
Garages
Garage Access Point

--- page 154 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 5 
Project Description 
The project site is currently an auto repair shop that consists of a 10,980 square foot (0.25 acre) parcel at 
the corner of East 3rd Avenue and South Claremont Street. It has a General Plan Designation of Downtown 
Retail Core Support and a zoning designation of CBD/S-Central Business District Support. The project site 
is bounded directly to the north by restaurant uses along East 3rd Avenue, and office and residential uses 
directly to the west. The San Mateo Caltrain station is located less than one quarter mile to the north and 
provides local, limited, and Baby Bullet service. 
The project proposes the demolition of the existing auto repair shop and construction of a 40,214 square 
foot, five story mixed use building. The lower four floors would contain all office uses and the fifth level 
would consist of five residential units, including one studio and four one-bedroom units. The project 
would include one Below Market Unit (BMR) in accordance with the City of San Mateo BMR Ordinance 
(20%  Low-Income) and is requesting the use of State Density Bonus concessions and waivers as 
described in the State Density Bonus letter submitted with the project. 
There will be two primary pedestrian entries to the building through separate lobbies, on East 3rd Avenue 
and on South Claremont Street, for office and residential respectively.  
The project will not include parking on site and will instead request payment of in-lieu fees in accordance 
with the City of San Mateo’s policies. Trips by personal automobile to and from the project site are 
expected to primarily use the Main Street Garage, which has entrances and exits on First Avenue and 
Second Avenue between Main Street and South Railroad Avenue, and the under construction Kiku 
Crossing Public Garage, which has an entry and exit on East Fifth Avenue between South Railroad Avenue 
and South Claremont Streets, shown in Figure 1. Short-term visitors to the project site may also use the 
metered on-street parking surrounding the project site, which is limited to three-hour stays.  
The project will also include a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan that would result in a 
substantial decrease in the number of trips generated and parking demand compared to typical projects 
of this use and size, similar to the TDM Plans prepared for the 405 East 4th Avenue1 and 406 East 3rd 
Avenue projects.2 Measures would include a TDM coordinator, bike supportive infrastructure, Caltrain Go 
Passes, etc. The proposed TDM plan for this project, 435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan, was produced by 
Steer in June 2022.  
The project proposes to widen sidewalks, create pedestrian bulb outs, and provide street furnishings and 
street trees along the project frontages to meet City of San Mateo standards and promote connectivity 
and pedestrian safety in the project area.  
 
1 405 E. 4th Avenue Draft Transportation Impact Analysis, Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc., January 24, 2017. 
2 406 E. Third Avenue Office & Residential Mixed-Use Development, Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc., May 21 
2019, p 34.

--- page 155 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 6 
Existing Transportation Conditions 
The existing transportation conditions surrounding the project site relating to the following topics are 
presented below: the roadway network, pedestrian facilities, bicycle facilities, transit service, vehicle 
volumes and lane configurations, and parking conditions.  
Existing Roadway Network 
As shown in Figure 1, the project site is bound by East 3rd Avenue, South Claremont Street and the 
existing commercial and residential land uses adjacent to the parcel. El Camino Real/State Route 82 and 
US 101 are the two primary regional north-south access routes. Drivers use these facilities to reach State 
Route 92, which provides east-west regional access to the project site. The roadways described below 
include those that provide direct access to the project site or the two nearby parking garages (the Main 
Street garage and under construction Kiku Crossing Public Garage). 
East 3rd Avenue is a two-way east-west street with two westbound travel lanes, one eastbound travel lane, 
and parking and sidewalks on each side of the street adjacent to the project site. East of South Delaware 
Street, East 3rd Avenue becomes a one-way street westbound, part of a one-way couplet with East 4th 
Avenue. The roadway is approximately 45 feet wide and each sidewalk is approximately six feet wide. East 
3rd Avenue provides direct access from US 101 northbound and southbound on/off ramps as well as 
connection to El Camino Real. The intersection of East 3rd Avenue and South Claremont Street is 
signalized.  
South Claremont Street is a two-way north-south street with one travel lane in each direction and on-
street parking and sidewalks on each side of the street. The roadway adjacent to the proposed project site 
is approximately 45 feet wide. The sidewalks are approximately nine feet wide.  
East 4th Avenue is a two-way east-west street with two eastbound travel lanes, one westbound travel lane, 
and parking and sidewalks on each side of the street. East of South Delaware Street, East 4th Avenue 
becomes a one-way street eastbound, part of a one-way couplet with East 3rd Avenue. The roadway is 
approximately 45 feet wide with approximately 12-foot sidewalks on the south side of the road and six-
to-eight-foot sidewalks on the north side of the road. Coupled with East 3rd Avenue, East 4th Avenue 
provides direct access to US 101 and El Camino Real and intersects with South Claremont Street and 
South Delaware Street by the project site at signalized intersections. 
South Railroad Avenue is a one-way northbound street with one travel lane adjacent to the Caltrain tracks. 
South of 3rd Avenue, South Railroad Avenue is a two-way north-south street with one travel lane in each 
direction. There are sidewalks on the east side of the street from 1st Avenue to East 5th Avenue, and there 
are sidewalks on the west side of the street from East 3rd Avenue to East 5th Avenue. South Railroad 
Avenue is stop-controlled at most intersections, and there is parking between 1st Avenue and 3rd Avenue

--- page 156 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 7 
and on the east side of the street. The roadway is approximately 13 feet wide, and the sidewalks are 
approximately six feet wide. 
1st Avenue is a two-way east-west street with one travel lane in each direction.  There is on street parking 
along the entire corridor and a Class II bikeway in each direction between South Railroad Avenue and 
South Claremont Street and a Class III bikeway between B Street and South Railroad Avenue. The roadway 
is approximately 40 feet wide and each sidewalk is approximately eight feet wide. Access to the Main 
Street garage is provided through a driveway on 1st Avenue. 
2nd Avenue is a two-way east-west street with one travel lane in each direction. 2nd Avenue runs from 
Freemont Street to El Camino Real. There is on street parking along the entire corridor. The roadway is 
approximately 40 feet wide and each sidewalk is approximately 10 feet wide. The corridor has bulb-outs at 
South Claremont. Access to the Main Street garage is provided through a driveway on 2nd Avenue. 
East 5th Avenue is a two-way east-west street with one travel lane in each direction. There is on street 
parking along the entire corridor and sharrows striped along the corridor denoting a Class III bikeway. The 
roadway is approximately 38 feet wide and each sidewalk is approximately 8 feet wide. Access to the Kiku 
Crossing Public Garage is provided through a driveway on East 5th Avenue. 
Existing Pedestrian Facilities 
Sidewalks are provided on all approaches to the project site on East 3rd Avenue and South Claremont 
Street. There are bulbouts at the adjacent intersection of East 3rd Avenue and South Claremont Street on 
the north side of South Claremont Street. This intersection is signalized and has high-visibility crosswalks, 
pedestrian push buttons, and leading pedestrian intervals. There are leading pedestrian intervals at all 
signalized study intersections adjacent to the project site. Pedestrian-scale lighting is present along East 
3rd Avenue but not along South Claremont Street. The sidewalks are approximately six to 12 feet wide 
and are generally in good condition with single curb ramps at all intersections. 
There have been four pedestrian/vehicle collisions reported at the following study locations in the last 
four years as a result of vehicles colliding with pedestrians while crossing at the crosswalk, resulting in 
minor or no injuries: South Claremont and East 2nd Avenue, South Claremont and East 3rd Avenue (two 
collisions), and South Railroad and East 3rd Avenue.  
Existing Bicycle Facilities 
Bikeway planning and design in California typically relies on guidelines and design standards established 
by California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) in the Highway Design Manual (Chapter 1000: 
Bikeway Planning and Design). The Caltrans guidelines cover four primary types of bikeway facilities: Class 
I, Class II, Class III, and Class IV. These facility types are described below. 
Class I Bikeway (Bike Path) provides a completely separate right-of-way, is designated for the 
exclusive use of bicycles and pedestrians, and minimizes vehicle and pedestrian cross-flow. In

--- page 157 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 8 
general, bike paths serve corridors that are not served by existing streets and highways, or where 
sufficient right-of-way exists for such facilities to be constructed. 
 
Class II Bikeways (Bike Lanes) are lanes for bicyclists generally adjacent to the outer vehicle travel 
lanes. These lanes have special lane markings, pavement legends, and signage. Bicycle lanes are 
generally five feet wide. Adjacent vehicle parking and vehicle/pedestrian cross-flow are permitted. 
Note that when grade separation or buffers are constructed between the bicycle and vehicle 
lanes, these facilities are classified as Class IV Separated Bikeways.  
 
Class III Bikeway (Bicycle Routes/Bicycle Boulevards) are designated by signs or pavement markings 
for shared use with pedestrians or motor vehicles but have no separated bicycle right-of-way or 
lane striping. Bicycle routes serve either to a) provide continuity to other bicycle facilities, or b) 
designate preferred routes through high demand corridors. Bicycle routes are implemented on 
low-speed (less than 25 mph) and low-volume (less than 3,000 vehicles/day) streets. The San 
Mateo Bicycle Master Plan also designates a special subset of Bicycle Routes which include traffic 
calming treatments as Bicycle Boulevards.

--- page 158 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 9 
 
 
• 
Class IV Bikeway (Cycle Tracks/Protected Bike Lanes) provide a right-of-way designated 
exclusively for bicycle travel within a roadway and which are protected from other vehicle traffic 
with devices, including, but not limited to, grade separation, flexible posts, inflexible physical 
barriers, or parked cars. 
 
Existing bicycle facilities near the project site include Class III bike routes along South Claremont Street, 
South Delaware Street, East 5th Avenue, and B Street. Class II bicycle lanes are provided on South 
Delaware Street south of East 4th Avenue and on 1st Street between Railroad Avenue and South 
Claremont Street. 
However, these bicycle facilities along South Delaware Street and East 5th Avenue would be ranked as 
having a high “Level of Traffic Stress” (LTS).3 LTS measures bicycling comfort based on roadway 
characteristics. Low stress bikeways are comfortable for everyone to ride on, including people who would 
 
3 The LTS Methodology was developed by Mekuria, Furth, and Nixon in Low Stress Bicycling and Network Connectivity 
(2012).

--- page 159 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 10 
be categorized as “interested but concerned”. In contrast, high stress bikeways are only tolerated by a few: 
primarily those who could be described as “strong and fearless” – those comfortable riding under any 
conditions (about 7% of the population). Class II and Class III bicycle facilities on roadways with multiple 
lanes of vehicle traffic and speed limits above 25 miles per hour would be categorized as high stress 
bikeways. The bicycle facilities adjacent to the project site along South Delaware Street would be 
categorized as high stress (as shown on Figure 3.7 of the 2020 San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan4). As such, 
South Claremont Street is expected to be the primary north-south street for bicycle access and it would 
be unlikely that any but the most confident and fearless bicyclists would feel comfortable bicycling to the 
project site along South Delaware Street. 
The City of San Mateo, through the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan, has proposed a nearby Class IV separated 
bike lanes on East 3rd Avenue. South Claremont Street is proposed as a Class III bicycle boulevard. Both 
proposed bicycle facilities are considered high priority as shown on Figure 6.1 of the 2020 San Mateo 
Bicycle Master Plan.5 A Class II bike lane is also proposed on 1st Street between Railroad Avenue and B 
Street to connect to the existing Class II facility of 1st Street. A Class II bike facility is proposed on 5th 
Avenue west of South Delaware Street; the portion at the Kiku Crossing development frontage has been 
designed as part of that project.  
Existing and proposed bicycle facilities are shown on Figure 2. 
 
4 San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan, City of San Mateo & Toole Design, 2020, p 28. 
5 San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan, City of San Mateo & Toole Design, 2020, p 60.

--- page 160 ---
N:\Projects\2021_Projects\SF21-1188_San Mateo Block 21_435 E 3rd Ave\Graphics\GIS\Block21_435E3rdAve_Basemap\Block21_435E3rdAve_Basemap.aprx
Figure 2
Existing and Proposed Bicycle Facilities
Bike Boulevard
Proposed
Existing
Bike Lane
Shared Use Path
Buffered Bike Lane
Seperated Bike Lane
Buffered Bike Lane
Bike Lane
Bike Route
Project Site
FIRE
STATION
24
FIRE
STATION
21
CENTRAL PARK
SAN MATEO
SUNNYBRAE
ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL
MILLS
PENINSULA
HOSPITAL
ST. MATTHEW'S
EPISCOPAL
DAY SCHOOL
GATEWAY
PARK
SAN MATEO
PUBLIC LIBRARY
South Ellsworth Avenue
South Grant Street
9th Avenue
South B Street
SR 82/El Camino Real
South Humboldt Street
East 3rd Avenue
11th Avenue
South San Mateo Drive
Baldwin Avenue
6th Avenue
8th Avenue
South Idaho Street
Laurel Avenue
North B Street
1st Avenue
East 4th Avenue
Mission Drive
Rosewood Drive
10th Avenue
US 101
South Railroad Avenue
South Delaware Street
North Claremont Street
Cypress Avenue
South Claremont Street
7th Avenue
South Eldorado Street
Tilton Avenue
East 5th Avenue
2nd Avenue
South Fremont Street
San Mateo
Caltrain Station

--- page 161 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 12 
Existing Transit Service 
Table 1 and Figure 3 present the existing transit service providers and routes that provide service near 
the project site. SamTrans is the primary regional and local transit provider within San Mateo County, 
serving all Caltrain regional rail stations within the County and major transit transfer points for Santa Clara, 
Alameda, and San Francisco counties. Many service operators are running reduced schedules due to 
COVID-19. The schedule information below reflects June 2022 timetables. 
Table 1: Existing Transit Service 
Route 
Weekday Peak 
Headway 
(minutes) 
Weekend 
Headway 
(minutes) 
Hours of 
Operation 
Closest Stop(s) 
to Project Site 
Key Destinations Served by 
Route 
SamTrans 53 
- 
- 
School Drop 
Off/Pick Up 
Hours Only 
Delaware Street 
and 2nd Street 
Peninsula/Humboldt, Borel 
Middle School 
SamTrans 55 
- 
- 
School Drop 
Off/Pick Up 
Hours Only 
El Camino Real 
and 4th Avenue 
Clark/El Camino, Borel Middle 
School 
SamTrans 59 
- 
- 
School Drop 
Off/Pick Up 
Hours Only 
Delaware Street 
and 4th Avenue 
Hillsdale/Norfolk, Aragon 
High School 
SamTrans 250 
30 
60 
Weekdays: 5:40 
AM – 11:40 PM;  
Saturdays: 7:00 
AM – 8:40 PM 
Claremont 
Street and 2nd 
Avenue 
San Mateo and Hillsdale 
Caltrain Station, College of 
San Mateo 
SamTrans 292 
20 
60 
Weekdays and 
Saturdays: 4:00 
AM – 2:30 AM 
Delaware Street 
and 2nd Avenue 
Downtown San Francisco, 
SFO, all Caltrain stations in 
the city of San Mateo, 
Hillsdale Mall 
SamTrans 295 
120 
- 
Weekdays: 6:20 
AM – 6:40 PM 
B Street and 1st 
Avenue 
San Mateo and Hillsdale 
Caltrain Stations; Redwood 
City Transit Center 
SamTrans 397 
60 
60 
Weekdays and 
Saturdays: Early 
AM hours (12:30 
AM – 5:00 AM) 
El Camino Real 
and 2nd Avenue 
Palo Alto Transit Center, 
Downtown San Francisco, San 
Francisco Airport, all Caltrain 
stations in San Mateo 
SamTrans ECR 
15-20 
30 
All day 
El Camino Real 
and 2nd Avenue 
Multiple BART stations, all 
Caltrain stations in the city of 
San Mateo, Palo Alto Transit 
Center 
Caltrain 
30 
60 
Weekdays: 4:30 
AM – 1:40 AM; 
Weekends: 7:00 
AM – 2:00 AM 
San Mateo 
Station 
San Francisco, San Jose 
Note: Transit service is representative of June 2022 operations. 
Source: SamTrans, Caltrain, and Fehr & Peers, 2022

--- page 162 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 13 
The nearest Caltrain rail station is the San Mateo Station, located three blocks northwest of the project 
site, provides local and limited service. People walking between the project site and the Caltrain station 
would primarily use South Claremont Street to reach the 1st Avenue station entrance. Sidewalks and 
crosswalks are provided along this walking route but there is a lack of west side street trees and 
pedestrian scale lighting along South Claremont Street between 1st and 2nd avenues. Street trees are also 
lacking on South Claremont Street between 2nd and East 3rd avenues. Sidewalks along this path are 
generally in good condition and range between seven and 12 feet wide, which are below the 
recommended width in the City’s Pedestrian Design Guidelines for streets with mixed-use developments. 
There are no truncated domes along the ADA curb ramps at the intersection of South Claremont Street 
and 1st Avenue. Five regular SamTrans routes provide access to all major Caltrain Stations, BART, 
downtown San Francisco, and other major attractions in the City of San Mateo. There are no bus shelters 
or seating amenities provided at any of the nearby bus stops except one unsheltered bench at the South 
Claremont and East 2nd Avenue stop. Sidewalks along these bus stops are narrow and do not provide 
adequate waiting space. The stops at South Delaware Street and East 2nd Avenue and South Delaware 
Street and East 3rd Avenue also lack pedestrian-scaled lighting. The City of San Mateo and SamTrans are 
currently assessing pedestrian facilities surrounding transit facilities and bus stop amenities that may 
address the deficiencies noted above.

--- page 163 ---
N:\Projects\2021_Projects\SF21-1188_San Mateo Block 21_435 E 3rd Ave\Graphics\GIS\Block21_435E3rdAve_Basemap\Block21_435E3rdAve_Basemap.aprx
Figure 3
Existing Transit Routes
Route 53
Route 59
Route 250
Route ECR
SamTrans Station
Caltrain
Caltrain Station
Route 292
Route 55
Route 295
Route 397
Project Site
FIRE
STATION
24
FIRE
STATION
21
CENTRAL PARK
SAN MATEO
SUNNYBRAE
ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL
MILLS
PENINSULA
HOSPITAL
ST. MATTHEW'S
EPISCOPAL
DAY SCHOOL
GATEWAY
PARK
SAN MATEO
PUBLIC LIBRARY
South Ellsworth Avenue
South Grant Street
9th Avenue
South B Street
SR 82/El Camino Real
South Humboldt Street
East 3rd Avenue
11th Avenue
South San Mateo Drive
Baldwin Avenue
6th Avenue
8th Avenue
South Idaho Street
Laurel Avenue
North B Street
1st Avenue
East 4th Avenue
Mission Drive
Rosewood Drive
10th Avenue
US 101
South Railroad Avenue
South Delaware Street
North Claremont Street
Cypress Avenue
South Claremont Street
7th Avenue
South Eldorado Street
Tilton Avenue
East 5th Avenue
2nd Avenue
South Fremont Street
San Mateo
Caltrain Station
Garages
Garage Access Point

--- page 164 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 15 
Existing Vehicle Volumes and Lane Configurations 
Pre-COVID-19 vehicle volumes at the East 3rd Avenue and South Claremont Street intersection were 
provided by the City of San Mateo. These historic counts were conducted in 2019 for both the AM peak 
period (7:00-9:00 AM) and PM peak period (4:00-6:00 PM). The other two study locations used historical 
counts collected from Streetlight during Fall 2019 months to represent pre-COVID-19 conditions. 6 We 
also collected counts at the East 3rd Avenue and South Claremont Street intersection for the same 
analysis periods as the City’s count data from Streetlight to develop a factor which was applied to the East 
2nd Avenue and South Claremont Street intersection and the East 3rd Avenue and South Railroad Avenue 
intersection.7 The existing lane configuration and traffic volumes for this intersection are shown on Figure 
4. 
Existing Intersection Level of Service 
Three locations were identified as study intersections within the project vicinity: 
East 2nd Avenue and South Claremont Street (all-way stop-controlled) 
East 3rd Avenue and South Claremont Street (signalized) 
East 3rd Avenue and South Railroad Avenue (side-street stop-controlled) 
One of the three intersections is signalized, East 3rd Avenue and South Claremont Street. The San Mateo 
General Plan, through the TIA Guidelines, requires the City to maintain a Level of Service no worse than 
mid LOS D, average delay of 45.0 seconds, as the acceptable Level of Service for all signalized intersections 
within the City. Adverse traffic operations are to be noted if a signalized intersection operating at acceptable 
LOS is triggered to operate at unacceptable levels of service (from mid LOS D or better to E or F) or increases 
in the average delay for a signalized intersection that is already operating at unacceptable LOS by 4.0 
seconds or more. 
For unsignalized intersections, the guidelines require the City to maintain a Level of Service no worse than 
LOS E for unsignalized intersections. Adverse traffic operations are to be noted if an unsignalized intersection 
operating at acceptable LOS is triggered to operate at unacceptable levels of service (from E or better to F) or 
increases the average delay for an unsignalized intersection that is already operating at unacceptable LOS 
by 4 or more seconds. 
In order to evaluate these policies, the City uses the metric Level of Service (“LOS”), which is a qualitative 
description of driver comfort and convenience. Typical factors that affect motorized vehicle LOS include 
speed, travel time, traffic interruptions, and freedom to maneuver. Typical LOS criteria for signalized and 
unsignalized intersections are defined in Table 2 and Table 3, respectively. 
 
6 For more about the performance of StreetLight Data’s intersection turning movement count product, please review 
Fehr & Peers’ whitepaper detailing our independent review of the data source:  
https://www.fehrandpeers.com/transformative-data-collection-solution/ 
7 Conservative counts were assumed for South Railroad Avenue based on nearby roadways

--- page 165 ---
Figure 4
Existing Vehicle Volumes
19 (27)
76 (100)
10 (37)
10 (11)
19 (252)
11 (30)
39 (88)
145 (140)
19 (77)
48 (44)
174 (176)
6 (10)
1. S Claremont St/E 2nd Ave
8 (16)
69 (119)
15 (55)
3 (9)
77 (150)
10 (38)
21 (30)
105 (124)
36 (26)
33 (35)
473 (479)
16 (25)
2. S Claremont St/E 3rd Ave
19 (11)
10 (10)
11 (9)
77 (66)
79 (188)
241 (329)
79 (102)
326 (338)
98 (86)
3. S Railroad Ave/E 3rd Ave
E 2nd Ave
S Claremont St
E 3rd Ave
S Railroad Ave
E 3rd Ave
S Claremont St
STOP
STOP
STOP
STOP
STOP
d
d
d
d
d
d
d
be
d
d
be
Project Site
Garages
Garage Access Points
Study Intersections

--- page 166 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 17 
Table 2: Signalized Intersection LOS Criteria 
Level of 
Service 
Description 
Average Control Delay Per 
Vehicle (Seconds) 
A 
Operations with very low delay occurring with favorable progression and/or 
short cycle length. 
≤ 10 
B 
Operations with low delay occurring with good progression and/or short 
cycle lengths. 
> 10 and ≤ 20 
C 
Operations with average delays resulting from fair progression and/or 
longer cycle lengths. Individual cycle failures begin to appear.  
> 20 and ≤ 35 
D 
Operations with longer delays due to a combination of unfavorable 
progression, long cycle lengths, or high volume-to-capacity (V/C) ratios. 
Many vehicles stop and individual cycle failures are noticeable. 
> 35 and ≤ 55 
E 
Operations with high delay values indicating poor progression, long cycle 
lengths, and high V/C ratios. Individual cycle failures are frequent 
occurrences.  
> 55 and ≤ 80 
F 
Operation with delays unacceptable to most drivers occurring due to over 
saturation poor progression, or very long cycle lengths.  
> 80 
Source:  Transportation Research Board, 2016. Highway Capacity Manual 6th Edition  
Table 3: Unsignalized Intersection LOS Criteria 
Description 
LOS 
Average Control Delay (seconds 
per vehicle) 
Unsignalized Intersections 
Represents free flow. Individual users are virtually unaffected by 
others in the traffic stream. 
A 
≤ 10 
Stable flow, but the presence of other users in the traffic stream 
begins to be noticeable. 
B 
> 10 to 15 
Stable flow, but the operation of individual users becomes 
significantly affected by interactions with others in the traffic 
stream. 
C 
> 15 to 25 
Represents high-density, but stable flow. 
D 
> 25 to 35 
Represents operating conditions at or near the capacity level. 
E 
> 35 to 50 
Represents forced or breakdown flow. 
F 
> 50 
Source: Highway Capacity Manual 6th Edition, Transportation Research Board of the National Academies of Science, 2017. 
Table 4 below presents existing LOS and intersection delay in seconds for each study intersection. The 
study intersections perform acceptably under existing conditions in both the AM and PM peak periods. 
See Appendix B for detailed LOS results.

--- page 167 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 18 
Table 4: Existing LOS and Delay Results 
Intersection 
LOS Threshold 
Peak Hour 
Existing 
Delay 
LOS 
1. East 2nd Avenue and South Claremont Street 
E 
AM 
10 
A 
PM 
15 
B 
2. East 3rd Avenue and South Claremont Street 
D 
AM 
12 
B 
PM 
13 
B 
3. East 3rd Avenue and South Railroad Avenue 
E 
AM 
<10 
A 
PM 
<10 
A 
Source: Fehr & Peers, 2022 
Existing Parking Conditions 
There is metered on-street parking along East 3rd Avenue and South Claremont Street. Parking along East 
3rd Avenue is limited to three hours, 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM everyday with street cleaning on Mondays, 
Wednesdays, and Fridays between 4:00 AM and 6:00 AM.  Parking on South Claremont Street is limited to 
three hours 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM Monday through Saturday with street cleaning every first and third 
Wednesday 7:00 AM to 9:00 AM.   
The project does not include on-site off-street parking. Parking for the project would occur on-street for 
short-term visitors (less than three hours) and at nearby public parking facilities for long-term parking, 
including the Main Street garage and the proposed Kiku Crossing Public Garage attached to the Kiku 
Crossing project located at 480 East 4th Avenue.8  The Main Street garage has entrances and exits on 1st 
Avenue and 2nd Avenue between Main Street and South Railroad Avenue. The entrance to the Kiku 
Crossing Public Garage is on East 5th Avenue between South Claremont Street and South Railroad 
Avenue.  
 
8 480 E. 4th Avenue Residential Development Transportation Analysis, Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc., June 5, 
2020.

--- page 168 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 19 
Opening Year Conditions 
The Opening Year reflects the anticipated transportation conditions at the time of the occupancy of the 
proposed project. Opening Year Conditions include traffic volumes added by nearby developments that 
have been approved but not yet completed or occupied near the project site. The approved project list 
includes: 
405 East 4th Avenue Office and Residential Mixed-Use Development 
406 East 3rd Avenue Office and Residential Mixed-Use Development 
303 Baldwin Avenue Office and Commercial Mixed-Use Development 
480 East 4th Avenue (Kiku Crossing) Residential Development 
Figure 5 shows the location of these projects relative to the project site.  
Each of these projects proposes new pedestrian improvements including:  
A new bulbout at the northeast corner of Railroad Avenue and 4th Avenue  
A new bulbout at the southeast corner of Railroad Avenue and 3rd Avenue 
New bulbouts at the northeast corner of Ellsworth Avenue and Baldwin Avenue and the northwest 
corner of B Street and Baldwin Avenue 
Wider sidewalks with landscaping zone along sections of B street and Baldwin Avenue fronting the 
303 Baldwin Avenue project site  
Wider sidewalks with landscaping zone along the residential frontage of Kiku Crossing 
Vehicle volumes were extrapolated from the TIAs provided by the City of San Mateo for the nearby 
development projects listed above. Opening Year traffic volumes that include the estimated traffic 
generated by these development projects are shown in Figure 6.

--- page 169 ---
Caltrain
Caltrain Station
Study Area
Background Projects
Driveways
FIRE
STATION
21
PENINSULA
HOSPITAL
GATEWAY
PARK
South Ellsworth Avenue
South B Street
eal
Stre
East 3rd Avenue
South San Mateo Drive
Baldwin Avenue
North B Street
1st Avenue
East 4th Avenue
South Railroad Avenue
South Delaware Street
Cypress Avenue
South Claremont Street
Sou
East 5th Avenue
2nd Avenue
South Fremont Street
San Mateo
Caltrain Station
Kiku 
Crossing
405 E. 
4th Ave
Kiku 
Crossing 
Garage
406 E. 
3rd Ave
303 
Baldwin 
Ave
Figure 5
Background Project Sites
N:\Projects\2021_Projects\SF21-1188_San Mateo Block 21_435 E 3rd Ave\Graphics\GIS\Block21_435E3rdAve_Basemap\Block21_435E3rdAve_Basemap.aprx
Project Site

--- page 170 ---
Figure 6
Opening Year Vehicle Volumes
19 (27)
76 (101)
10 (37)
10 (11)
19 (252)
11 (30)
39 (88)
146 (140)
19 (77)
48 (44)
174 (176)
6 (10)
1. S Claremont St/E 2nd Ave
11 (26)
69 (119)
16 (56)
3 (10)
78 (149)
23 (47)
21 (30)
106 (124)
36 (26)
33 (35)
448 (434)
98 (58)
2. S Claremont St/E 3rd Ave
19 (11)
10 (10)
13 (9)
77 (66)
91 (197)
241 (329)
75 (95)
312 (315)
94 (81)
3. S Railroad Ave/E 3rd Ave
E 2nd Ave
S Claremont St
E 3rd Ave
S Railroad Ave
E 3rd Ave
S Claremont St
STOP
STOP
STOP
STOP
STOP
d
d
d
d
d
d
d
be
d
d
be
Project Site
Garages
Garage Access Points
Study Intersections

--- page 171 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 22 
Opening Year Conditions Intersection Level of Service 
Table 5 below presents opening year LOS and intersection delay in seconds for each study intersection. 
There is no change in LOS between existing conditions and opening year conditions due to volume 
growth. All the study intersections perform acceptably under opening year conditions in both the AM and 
PM peak periods. See Appendix B for detailed LOS results.  
Table 5: Opening Year LOS and Delay Results 
Intersection 
LOS 
Threshold 
Peak 
Hour 
Existing 
Opening Year 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
1. East 2nd Avenue and 
South Claremont Street 
E 
AM 
10 
A 
10 
A 
PM 
15 
B 
15 
B 
2. East 3rd Avenue and 
South Claremont Street 
D 
AM 
12 
B 
12 
B 
PM 
13 
B 
13 
B 
3. East 3rd Avenue and 
South Railroad Avenue 
E 
AM 
<10 
A 
<10 
A 
PM 
<10 
A 
<10 
A 
Source: Fehr & Peers, 2022

--- page 172 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 23 
Project Conditions 
The project proposes a five-story mixed use development with office and residential uses. This section 
presents the traffic conditions with the project, including Vehicle Miles Traveled and LOS, while site access 
and circulation issues and other related topics are evaluated within the Additional Transportation Analysis 
sections. 
Project Trip Generation and Distribution  
Trip Generation 
Vehicle trip estimates for the project were developed by applying national trip generation rates presented 
in the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation Manual 11th Edition to the proposed 
land uses: “Multifamily Housing Low-Rise (220)” and “General Office (710).” Fehr & Peers used the trip 
generation methodology known as MXD+ to calibrate the trip generation estimates to local conditions 
and the mixed-use nature of the project and proximity to adjacent office/research, commercial, and 
residential uses. The MXD+ method accounts for built environment factors such as the density and 
diversity of land uses, design of the pedestrian and bicycling environment, demographics of the site, and 
distance to transit to develop more realistic trip generation estimates than those provided by traditional 
traffic engineering methods. MXD reductions include trip reductions attributed to internal capture and 
walk/bike trips. Trip reductions from internal capture represent trips between the two land uses (e.g., 
residents who may work in the office space). Trip reductions from walk/bike trips represent external 
person trips that are taken by foot or by bicycle (e.g., residents commuting to their jobs elsewhere on foot 
or bike). 
To determine existing trip generation for the various uses, the ITE rates for Automobile Care Center (942) 
were used. As shown in Table 6 below, the trips generated by the existing uses to be removed were 
subtracted from the project trips generated. The proposed project would generate a total of 49 net new 
vehicle trips in the AM peak hour and 51 new vehicle trips in the PM peak hour.

--- page 173 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 24 
Table 6: Project Vehicle Trip Generation 
Land Use 
ITE LU Code Quantity 
Units¹ 
Daily 
AM 
PM 
Total 
In 
Out Total 
In Out Total 
Proposed project 
Multifamily Low-Rise 
220 
5 
DU 
34 
0 
2 
2 
2 
1 
3 
General Office Building 
710 
34 
KSF 
454 
58 
8 
66 
12 
56 
68 
Reductions2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Internal Capture 
 
 
 
-8 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
External Walk, Bike, and Transit 
 
 
 
-91 
-12 
-1 
-13 
-3 
-9 
-12 
Proposed Project Subtotal 
 
 
 
389 
46 
9 
55 
11 
48 
59 
Existing Uses  
Automobile Care Center 
942 
2.7 
KSF 
80 
4 
2 
6 
4 
4 
8 
Reductions2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Internal Capture 
 
 
 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
External Walk, Bike, and Transit 
 
 
 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Existing Uses Subtotal 
 
 
 
80 
4 
2 
6 
4 
4 
8 
Net new trips (Proposed 
project minus existing) 
 
 
 
309 
42 
7 
49 
7 
44 
51 
Notes: Assumes 100% of existing uses were occupied 
1. 
DU=dwelling unit; KSF=1,000 square feet 
2. 
Based on MXD+ trip generation methodology which accounts for built environment factors such as density and diversity 
of land uses, design of the pedestrian and bicycle environment, site demographics, and accessibility of transit, among 
other factors. Internal trip reductions account for trips made between land uses on the site. 
Sources: Fehr & Peers; ITE Trip Generation Manual, 11th Edition, 2022

--- page 174 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 25 
Trip Distribution 
Trips generated by the project were distributed through the three study intersections based on the 
existing travel patterns on the surrounding roadway system and the locations of complementary land 
uses. Since the project does not include on-site parking, trips that were generated by the project were 
directed to the nearby Main Street and Kiku Crossing Garages. Trips generated by the project that were 
routed on US 101 North and US 101 South, and trips routed on local roads north of the project site were 
directed to the Main Street Garage, while trips generated by the project that were routed on El Camino 
Real and local roads south of the project were routed to the Kiku Crossing Public Garage. These 
assumptions were made in order to allocate as many trips through the study intersections recommended 
by the City’s TIA guidelines and were approved by the City. The proposed residential use would typically 
generate outbound trips in the morning to employment areas and inbound trips in the evening from 
employment areas. The proposed office would operate similarly to residential uses except the office 
would typically generate inbound trips in the morning and outbound trips in the evening.  
The peak-hour trips generated by the existing and proposed uses were assigned to the roadway network 
based on the directions of approach and departure, the roadway network connections, and the location of 
freeway on/off ramps. The trip distribution patterns were compared to ensure consistency with other 
recent studies, such as the 406 East 3rd Avenue office & Residential Mixed-Use Development9 analysis 
located across the street from the project site. Approximately 45% of trips would travel to and from east 
of the project site along East 3rd and East 4th avenues toward US 101 or Foster City, 45% would travel 
west toward El Camino Real and into the hills, with the remaining 10% traveling to the north and south of 
the project site on Delaware or Claremont streets. The trips generated by the existing uses to be removed 
were subtracted from the roadway network prior to assigning project trips. Figure 7 shows the net project 
trip distribution and assignment of the project trips at the study intersections.   
 
9 Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc., 406 East 3rd Avenue office & Residential Mixed-Use Development, April 25, 
2029, p. 26.

--- page 175 ---
Figure 7
Trip Distribution and Assignment of Project Trips
0 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0)
1 (5)
1 (5)
1 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0)
10 (2)
0 (0)
1. S Claremont St/E 2nd Ave
0 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0)
1 (5)
0 (0)
0 (0)
10 (2)
0 (0)
2. S Claremont St/E 3rd Ave
10 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0)
2 (0)
1 (0)
0 (2)
11 (0)
0 (0)
3. S Railroad Ave/E 3rd Ave
E 2nd Ave
S Claremont St
E 3rd Ave
S Railroad Ave
E 3rd Ave
S Claremont St
STOP
STOP
STOP
STOP
STOP
d
d
d
d
d
d
d
be
d
d
be
Project Site
Garages
Garage Access Points
Study Intersections

--- page 176 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 27 
Plus Project VMT 
The purpose of this section is to introduce vehicle miles traveled (VMT) and evaluate whether the project 
fulfills the screening criteria presented in the TIA Guidelines. VMT is a measurement of the amount and 
distance that a person drives, accounting for the number of passengers within a vehicle. Many 
interdependent factors affect the amount and distance a person might drive. In particular, the type of built 
environment affects how many places a person can access within a given distance, time, and cost, using 
different ways of travel (e.g., private vehicle, public transit, bicycling, walking, etc.). Typically, low-density 
development located at great distances from other land uses and in areas with few alternatives to the 
private vehicle provides less access than a location with high density, mix of land uses, and numerous 
ways of travel. Therefore, low-density development typically generates more VMT per capita compared to 
a similarly sized development located in urban areas. In general, higher VMT areas are associated with 
more air pollution, including greenhouse gas emissions, and energy usage than lower VMT areas. VMT is 
calculated by multiplying the number of trips generated by a project by the total distance of each of 
those trips.  
VMT Screening 
Although OPR provides recommendations for adopting new VMT analysis guidelines, lead agencies, such 
as the City of San Mateo, have the final say in designing their methodology to assess VMT and determine 
a relevant threshold. Lead agencies must prove that their selected analysis methodology aligns with SB 
743’s goals to promote infill development, reduce greenhouse gases, and reduce VMT. Per the City of San 
Mateo’s TIA guidelines, a project does not need to conduct a detailed VMT analysis if the project is 
located within a half mile of a high-quality transit area as the project can be presumed to have a less-
than-significant impact. The project is located within a half mile of the San Mateo Caltrain Station (see 
Figure 1), which the City designates as a high-quality transit service as defined by OPR guidelines. In 
addition to being located within a half mile of a Caltrain station, the project must have: 
 
a floor area ratio of more than 0.75,  
 
include no more than the minimum parking required by the City of San Mateo,  
 
be consistent with the Metropolitan Transportation Commissions’ (MTC) Sustainable Communities 
Strategy (SCS), and  
 
Cannot result in a reduction of affordable residential units.  
The project has a floor area ratio of 3.66, provides less parking than the minimum parking required, is 
consistent with MTC’s SCS, and the current site does not include any residential units. The developer has 
proposed to pay fees in-lieu of providing on-site parking at 435 East 3rd Avenue and as a result will be 
providing less parking than required by the City of San Mateo’s Municipal Code. The project is consistent 
with the SCS’s goals of building affordable housing, creating healthy and safe streets by building a 
complete streets network, and reducing climate emissions by 1) providing land use growth and provides 
affordable housing near high-quality transit, and 2) promoting alternative modes of travel 
(walking/biking) through improvements like enhanced sidewalks and bicycle parking. Therefore, this

--- page 177 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 28 
project would have a less than significant VMT impact in background plus project and cumulative plus 
project conditions due to its proximity to high-quality transit.  
Opening Year Plus Project Vehicle Volumes and Level of Service 
The net new project trips assignment on were added to the opening year volumes to develop opening 
year plus project volumes, shown on Figure 8.  
Table 7 below presents the opening year and opening year plus project LOS and intersection delay in 
seconds for each study intersection. There is no change in LOS in Opening Year Plus Project from Opening 
Year and all intersections perform acceptably. The addition of proposed project trips does not result in 
adverse traffic operations at the study locations. See Appendix B for detailed LOS results.  
Table 7: Opening Year Plus Project LOS and Delay Results 
Intersection 
LOS 
Threshold 
Peak 
Hour 
Opening Year 
Opening Year Plus Project 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
1. East 2nd Avenue and 
South Claremont Street 
E 
AM 
10 
A 
10 
A 
PM 
15 
B 
15 
B 
2. East 3rd Avenue and 
South Claremont Street 
D 
AM 
12 
B 
12 
B 
PM 
13 
B 
13 
B 
3. East 3rd Avenue and 
South Railroad Avenue 
E 
AM 
<10 
A 
<10 
A 
PM 
<10 
A 
<10 
A 
Source: Fehr & Peers, 2022

--- page 178 ---
Figure 8
Opening Year Plus Project Vehicle Volumes
19 (27)
76 (101)
10 (37)
10 (11)
20 (257)
12 (35)
40 (88)
146 (140)
19 (77)
48 (44)
184 (178)
6 (10)
1. S Claremont St/E 2nd Ave
11 (26)
69 (119)
16 (56)
3 (10)
78 (149)
23 (47)
21 (30)
107 (129)
36 (26)
33 (35)
458 (436)
98 (58)
2. S Claremont St/E 3rd Ave
29 (11)
10 (10)
13 (9)
77 (66)
93 (197)
242 (329)
75 (97)
323 (315)
94 (81)
3. S Railroad Ave/E 3rd Ave
E 2nd Ave
S Claremont St
E 3rd Ave
S Railroad Ave
E 3rd Ave
S Claremont St
STOP
STOP
STOP
STOP
STOP
d
d
d
d
d
d
d
be
d
d
be
Project Site
Garages
Garage Access Points
Study Intersections

--- page 179 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 30 
Additional Transportation Analysis 
This section presents an analysis of other transportation issues associated with the project site, including 
the following:  
Impacts to vehicle, pedestrian & bicycle site access  
Parking 
Hazards and emergency vehicle access 
Neighborhood traffic 
The analyses in this section are in accordance with the City of San Mateo’s General Plan Circulation 
Element outlined in the TIA guidelines that requires a non-CEQA local transportation analysis for land use 
projects that may have an effect on the local street system. The analysis in this section is based on 
professional judgment in accordance with the standards and methods employed by the traffic 
engineering community.   
Although operational issues are not considered CEQA impacts, they do describe traffic conditions that are 
relevant to describing the project environment. 
Vehicle Site Access and Circulation 
The project proposes two new geometric design changes to the surrounding roadway network: 1) the 
removal of all existing driveways surrounding the project site, and 2) realignment of the curb at the 
intersection of South Claremont Street and East 3rd Avenue adjacent to the project. The project will add 
49 vehicle trips during the AM peak hour and 51 vehicle trips during the PM peak hour. As summarized in 
the sections above, the addition of the proposed project trips would not result in any adverse effects on 
traffic operations at the study locations. These trips will be routed to the Main Street and Kiku Crossing 
Public Garages.  
Trips from local roads to the north of the project site and trips from US 101 are likely to use the Main 
Street Garage, while trips from local roads to the south and west of the project site and trips from El 
Camino Real are likely to use the Kiku Crossing Public Garage. The main paths of travel to access the Main 
Street Garage include 1st Avenue and 2nd Avenue. To access the Kiku Crossing Public Garage , vehicles 
would likely take East 5th Avenue or 9th Avenue, South B Street and South Claremont Street.  
Garbage facilities will be accessed from the curb on South Claremont Street. The realignment of the curb 
at the intersection of East 3rd Avenue and South Claremont provides more space for pedestrians and 
landscaping, and reduces the travel distance to cross each street (see Figure 9). Since the proposed 
project will not have an on-site garage, there will be no impacts related to vehicle queuing or driveway 
sight distance.

--- page 180 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 31 
Loading and Curbside Management 
Although the site does not provide a loading zone, there is an existing yellow loading zone west of the 
site on East 3rd Avenue. Garbage collection will happen along South Claremont Street. Garbage collection 
occurs infrequently, typically during off-peak times, and is proposed on a low volume street. Therefore, it 
is not expected to substantially interfere with pedestrians on the sidewalk or block traffic on the street. 
Pedestrian & Bicycle Site Access and Circulation 
Pedestrian Access 
The office space has a pedestrian entrance on East 3rd Avenue, and the residential space has a pedestrian 
entrance on South Claremont Street. The adjacent intersection at South Claremont and East 3rd Avenue is 
signalized and has marked crosswalks. In general, the proposed project would enhance pedestrian 
conditions surrounding the project site by removing driveways on South Claremont and East 3rd Avenue 
and the addition of a curb extension at the corner of South Claremont and East 3rd Avenue. The following 
discussion compares the proposed facilities to the City’s policies and guidelines.  
Per General Plan Policy C4.5 and C4.6 of the City’s General Plan Circulation Element, the City requires as a 
condition of development project approval the provision of sidewalks and wheelchair ramps where 
lacking and the repair or replacement of damaged sidewalks. The project would enhance sidewalks on the 
two blocks fronting the project site with wider sidewalks, street furniture such as benches, street trees, and 
pedestrian-scale lighting. According to the City of San Mateo’s Pedestrian Design Guidelines, Appendix B 
of the 2012 San Mateo Pedestrian Master Plan10, the recommended minimum sidewalk widths for mixed 
use developments are 16 feet wide with a recommendation of 20 feet wide for blocks with no street 
parking and no setbacks and 26 feet wide where there are amenities in the frontage zone. The minimum 
through zone width is 8 feet wide. However, the City’s Municipal Code SMMC 27.39.090 requires zero-
setbacks unless a setback is provided for landscaping. 
The proposed project would not meet these guidelines along South Claremont Street or along East 3rd 
Avenue. The sidewalk along South Claremont Street will have an overall width of 16 feet with a 7.5 foot 
through-zone; and the sidewalk along East 3rd Avenue will have an overall width of 15 feet with a 6.5 foot 
through zone. Both proposed sidewalks adjacent to the project site should be widened along East 3rd 
Avenue and South Claremont Street in accordance with San Mateo’s Pedestrian Design Guidelines.  
As noted in the City’s TIA Guidelines, pedestrian safety and accessibility connecting to transit stops or 
stations in the vicinity of the project site must be assessed. In addition to sidewalks, the City of San 
Mateo’s Pedestrian Design Guidelines provide guidance on the following physical pedestrian facilities that 
are applicable to the intersection adjacent to the proposed project site. The lack of features consistent 
with the City’s Pedestrian Design Guidelines surrounding the project site could limit pedestrian 
accessibility to transit stops or stations by creating an uncomfortable or unsafe conditions for people 
 
10 San Mateo Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan, City of San Mateo & Alta Planning + Design, 2012, p. A-12-A13.

--- page 181 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 32 
walking. Table 9 assesses whether the intersections surrounding the project site are consistent with the 
guidelines under existing and proposed conditions and provides recommendations to enhance pedestrian 
comfort and safety based on community feedback and collision data.  
Table 8: Existing and Proposed Pedestrian Facilities 
Pedestrian 
Design 
Feature 
Guidelines Summary 
Applicable to Project1 
Existing Condition 
Proposed 
Condition 
Recommendations 
A.11. Curb 
ramps 
Directional (two) curb ramps 
should be installed at 
intersections with high vehicle 
volumes, such as those 
surrounding the project site. 
Directional curb ramps are 
present at the adjacent 
intersection. ADA accessible 
ramp is missing at the NW 
corner of South Claremont and 
East 3rd Avenue intersection 
ADA accessible 
directional curb 
ramps at the NW 
corner of South 
Claremont and 
East 3rd Avenue 
intersection 
None 
A.12. Curb 
extensions 
Curb extensions should not 
encroach into bike lanes but 
should allow for bus and 
emergency turning access.  
There is an existing curb 
extension at the intersection 
adjacent to the project site. 
No change 
Consider how this 
curb extension will 
impact any future 
bike facilities on 
East 3rd Avenue 
A.13 and 
A.14. 
Standard 
and high 
visibility 
crosswalks 
High visibility continental 
crosswalks should be 
prioritized for locations with 
anticipated high pedestrian 
activity or a high number of 
pedestrian-related collisions 
have occurred. 
The adjacent intersection is 
signalized and has marked, 
high-visibility crosswalks. 
Collision data indicate crossing 
at East 3rd Avenue needs 
improvement.2 
No change 
None  
A.15. 
Advance 
stop bars 
Advance stop bars should be 
installed at all controlled 
intersections. 
All four approaches at the 
adjacent intersection do not 
have advance stop bars.  
No change 
The project 
sponsor should 
install add advance 
stop bars at the 
adjacent 
intersection to 
increase visibility 
between drivers 
and pedestrians. 
A.23. 
Signalized 
pedestrian 
crossings 
All new and modified traffic 
signals without a dedicated 
pedestrian phase should 
include accessible 
pushbuttons. 
The adjacent intersection is 
controlled with a traffic signal 
and has accessible push buttons.  
No change 
None 
A.25. 
Signal 
timing 
Countdown heads with 
audible instructions should be 
installed at multi-lane arterial 
roadway intersections. 
Present at adjacent intersection.  No change 
None

--- page 182 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 33 
A.26. 
Leading 
Pedestrian 
Interval 
(LPI) 
LPI’s should be installed in the 
downtown area bounded by 
Tilton Avenue to 5th Avenue 
and from El Camino Real to 
Delaware Street, which 
includes the project site. 
Present at adjacent intersection.  No change 
None 
1. San Mateo Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan, City of San Mateo & Alta Planning + Design, 2012, Appendix B: Pedestrian Design 
Guidelines 
2. City of San Mateo Collision Data, 2022, 
https://experience.arcgis.com/experience/8a9f7321d1ce46ffbc0e1f04757efb5f/page/Maps/?views=All-Collisions 
Recommended Improvement 
The project sponsor should widen the proposed sidewalks along South Claremont Street and East 3rd 
Avenue and add the recommended pedestrian facilities from Table 8 to be consistent with the City of San 
Mateo’s Pedestrian Design Guidelines. The City could consider further enhancements through use of 
transportation impact fee (TIF) funds to add the remaining missing features, such as directional curb 
ramps on corners that don’t front the project site, no right-turn on red signs to support LPI’s, and 
pedestrian recall for locations with high pedestrian volumes. 
Bicycle Access 
The project proposes four short-term bicycle parking spaces and nine long-term parking spaces. As 
shown in the site plan in Figure 9, two circular bicycle racks for four bicycles are proposed to be placed at 
street level near the main pedestrian entrances in the landscaping strip between the sidewalk and the 
roadway. The long-term bicycle parking for office users is on the first floor of the office space, located in 
the northwest corner. The long-term bicycle parking for residents is on the fifth floor next to the 
residential elevator. Bicycle parking should restrict access to authorized users and provide lockers to 
ensure people who ride can securely park bicycles for long periods of time. Residents have access to 
storage on the first floor near the residential elevators that are accessible through the main residential 
pedestrian entrance from South Claremont Street. There are no other proposed bicycle facility changes, 
thus the project would not disrupt existing bicycle facilities in the City. 
The City of San Mateo, through the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan, has proposed Class IV separated bike lanes 
on East 3rd Avenue. South Claremont Street is proposed as a Class III bicycle boulevard. These proposed 
bicycle facilities are considered high priority as shown on Figure 6.1 of the 2020 San Mateo Bicycle Master 
Plan11 and would substantially improve accessibility for people bicycling in the downtown area by 
providing low stress bicycle facilities, and thus reducing the need for driving trips for project residents and 
employees. Should these bike lanes be installed in the future, the bulbout adjacent to the project site at 
the corner of South Claremont Street and East 3rd Avenue may need to be removed to accommodate the 
bike lane. South Claremont Street is best suited as the main access route to and from the project site to 
 
11 San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan, City of San Mateo & Toole Design, 2020, p 60.

--- page 183 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 34 
the Caltrain station given the lower traffic volumes, most direct access to the Caltrain station, and 
proximity to the project entrances. The project would not contain features that would conflict with the 
proposed bicycle boulevard on South Claremont Street.  
Transit Access and Circulation 
Neither public transit conditions nor public transit access are expected to change with the project. As 
noted in Table 6, the project is estimated to generate approximately 389 daily trips and approximately 12 
peak hour trips by walking, bicycling, or transit given its proximity to destinations such as downtown San 
Mateo and high-quality transit services such as Caltrain and SamTrans. Likely associated with commutes, 
new transit trips could be accommodated by existing nearby transit routes and services including 
SamTrans and Caltrain. SamTrans bus stops are also located along South Claremont and South Delaware 
one to two blocks from the project site. These stops do not include bus shelters and seating. Although 
there are not currently plans to add these features, SamTrans is studying the bus stop amenities 
throughout the system and may include these features in the future. The pedestrian improvements 
recommended above and in Table 8 would ensure that a safe and comfortable path of travel to and from 
transit is accessible for all users.  
Vehicle Parking Conditions 
This project will not provide any off-street parking. The project anticipates paying in-lieu fees for 64 office 
spaces and three residential spaces to meet the parking requirement. In-lieu fees for the office parking 
will be based on a rate of 1.87 stalls per 1,000 gross square feet. The three residential parking spaces 
represents a parking ratio of approximately 0.5 vehicles per residential unit. Although the Municipal Code 
requires 1.5-2 units per multi-family dwelling unit, the State Density Bonus permits a reduced parking 
ratio of 0.5 spaces/bedroom because the project is within a half mile of public transit.12 
Hazards and Emergency Vehicle Access 
The proposed project would not create or worsen existing roadway hazards. The project does not propose 
altering the existing roadway network and does not propose new vehicular roadways that would create 
hazards or impede emergency vehicle access.  
Neighborhood Traffic 
Due to the relatively small increase in net new vehicle volumes generated by the project, the impact to 
neighboring streets will be low, given the location of the project site on East 3rd Avenue, which is a 
neighborhood arterial, and the multitude of paths to and from the project site and parking garages that 
the trips will be routed to. Additionally, because trips are routed to two parking garages that are not 
adjacent to the project site, the vehicle volumes that are generated will be dispersed across the 
 
12 San Mateo Block 21 and 435 East 3rd Avenue Parking Demand Fee Memorandum, Fehr & Peers, March 22, 2022

--- page 184 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 35 
neighborhood street network. Traffic calming devices along South Claremont Street, as recommended in 
the 2020 San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan, would help discourage cut-through traffic and enhance walking 
and biking connections to the major transit facilities on this local access street.

--- page 185 ---
Project Site Plan
Figure 9
N:\Projects\2021_Projects\SF21-1188_San Mateo Block 21_435 E 3rd Ave\Graphics\AI\Links
Residential 
pedestrian 
entrance
Office space 
pedestrian 
entrance
Bike rack
Garbage access
Bike rack
Street benches
Realignment 
of curb
On street parking to 
replace existing driveways
On street parking to 
replace existing driveways
Ground-floor  
office space
bike room*
*Long term residential bike parking will be located on the 5th floor next to the elevators.

--- page 186 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue Transportation Impact Assessment 
August 2022 
 37 
Conclusion  
The proposed project will not result in CEQA impacts on VMT, bicycle, pedestrian, or transit circulation, or 
hazards and emergency access. VMT is screened out because of the project’s proximity to high-quality 
transit. The project presents no adverse LOS effects or site circulation issues. The project does not include 
features that would disrupt these facilities nor generate a substantial number of people that would 
worsen or create a new impact. The project meets the City’s design standards except for sidewalk widths 
as recommended in the San Mateo Pedestrian Master Plan. The following recommended changes to the 
site plan would ensure consistency with San Mateo standards and best planning practices. The addition of 
proposed project trips would not result in adverse effects on traffic operations. 
Recommendations 
• 
The proposed pedestrian facilities are inconsistent with the San Mateo Pedestrian Master 
Plan. The project sponsor should widen the proposed sidewalks along South Claremont 
Street. However, the City’s Municipal Code SMMC 27.39.090 requires zero-setbacks unless a 
setback is provided for landscaping. 
• 
Add advance stop bars at each intersection approach in accordance with City of San Mateo’s 
Pedestrian Design Guidelines.  
• 
The City could consider signal timing adjustments, such as placing all signals on pedestrian 
recall and installing extinguishable no right turn on red signs during leading pedestrian 
intervals.

--- page 187 ---
Appendix A: LOS Analysis Screening
Memorandum


--- page 188 ---
345 California Street | Suite 450 | San Francisco, CA 94104 | (415) 348-0300 | Fax (415) 773-1790   
www.fehrandpeers.com 
Memorandum 
 
Date:  
June 14, 2022 
To:  
Michael Kato, City of San Mateo 
From:  
Ashley Hong and Matt Goyne, Fehr & Peers 
Subject:  
Screening Out 435 E 3rd Avenue Mixed-Use Project from LOS Analysis 
SF21-1188.02 
This memo is to support screening out the LOS analysis for the 435 E 3rd Avenue mixed-use 
building project. Given that existing and opening year traffic operations analysis had been 
prepared already, these results are presented as additional substantiation for screening out 
projects from LOS analysis that generate few vehicle trips.  
Reasons to screen out LOS analysis: 
• 
Recap: City of San Mateo Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Guidelines (pg 15) 
 
• 
The Project does not include on-site parking to encourage travel by alternate modes. For 
residents and employees that do drive, the vehicle trips would be distributed throughout 
the roadway network much more than for a project with on-site parking. Parking garages 
are available 3-4 blocks away and thus the Guidelines recommended approach would not 
capture nearly all project-generated vehicle trips. 
• 
The Project does not generate 100 or more peak hour trips total (AM: 42 in/7out; PM 7 
in/44 out), and thus would generate far fewer trips at any one intersection. The project-

--- page 189 ---
Michael Kato 
June 14, 2022 
Page 2 of 3  
added trips at the intersections would result in imperceptible traffic volume and average 
intersection delay increases to the average driver, as substantiated below.  
Project Contribution to Traffic Volumes: 
Table 1 summarizes the traffic volumes for all the analysis scenarios. The project adds at most 24 
trips, or up to three percent of an intersection’s total volume, to the recommended study 
intersections during a peak hour. This level of traffic is below the average daily fluctuation of 
traffic volumes, which is typically around 5 to 10 percent. 1 This generally represents the level of 
traffic that is imperceptible to the average driver.  
 Table 1: Traffic Growth 
 
 
AM 
PM 
  
AM 
PM 
  
AM 
PM 
Int # 
Name 
Existing 
  
  
Opening Year 
  
Cumulative 
1 
2nd/Claremont 
576 
991 
577 
992 
691 
1189 
2 
3rd/Claremont 
866 
1106 
942 
1114 
1131 
1364 
3 
3rd/Railroad 
940 
1138 
932 
1112 
1129 
1366 
  
  
Existing +P 
Opening Year + P 
Cumulative +P 
1 
2nd/Claremont 
589 
1003 
590 
1004 
704 
1201 
2 
3rd/Claremont 
877 
1113 
953 
1121 
1142 
1371 
3 
3rd/Railroad 
964 
1145 
956 
1119 
1153 
1373 
  
  
Delta 
  
Delta 
  
Delta 
  
1 
2nd/Claremont 
13 
12 
13 
12 
13 
12 
2 
3rd/Claremont 
11 
7 
11 
7 
11 
7 
3 
3rd/Railroad 
24 
7 
24 
7 
24 
7 
  
  
% Change 
  
% Change 
  
% Change 
  
1 
2nd/Claremont 
2% 
1% 
2% 
1% 
2% 
1% 
2 
3rd/Claremont 
1% 
1% 
1% 
1% 
1% 
1% 
3 
3rd/Railroad 
3% 
1% 
  
3% 
1% 
  
2% 
1% 
Project Effect on LOS: 
All the Guidelines recommended study intersections operate acceptably, at LOS B or better, under 
existing and opening year conditions. The project increases delay at intersections by one second 
at most, indicating that the level of traffic generated by the 435 E 3rd Avenue project would not 
affect the roadway network or traffic operational issues. Given the negligible changes to traffic 
operations under existing and opening year conditions, level of service analysis under cumulative 
conditions is not recommended.  
 
1 Variability in Traffic Monitoring Data Final Summary Report; Center for Transportation Analysis of Oak 
Ridge National Laboratory for the Federal Highway Administration; August 1997

--- page 190 ---
Michael Kato 
June 14, 2022 
Page 3 of 3  
Table 2: LOS Summary 
 
Existing 
Opening Year 
Opening Year 
Plus Project 
# 
Int 
Control 
Peak 
Hour 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
1 
South Claremont St/ 
E 2nd Ave 
AWSC 
 
AM 
10 
A 
10 
A 
10 
A 
PM 
15 
B 
15 
B 
15 
B 
2 
South Claremont St/ 
E 3rd Ave 
Signal 
 
AM 
12 
B 
12 
B 
12 
B 
PM 
13 
B 
13 
B 
13 
B 
3 
South Railroad Ave/ 
E 3rd Ave 
TWSC 
 
AM 
2 
A 
2 
A 
3 
A 
PM 
2 
A 
2 
A 
2 
A 
If you have any questions, please reach out to Ashley Hong at a.hong@fehrandpeers.com.

--- page 191 ---
Appendix B: LOS Calculation
Worksheet


--- page 192 ---
Intersection Operations Summary 
Intersection 
Signal 
Control 
LOS 
Threshold 
Peak 
Hour 
Existing 
Opening Year 
Opening Year 
Plus Project 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
1. East 2nd Avenue and 
South Claremont Street 
AWSC 
E 
AM 
10 
A 
10 
A 
10 
A 
PM 
15 
B 
15 
B 
15 
B 
2. East 3rd Avenue and 
South Claremont Street 
Signal 
D 
AM 
12 
B 
12 
B 
12 
B 
PM 
13 
B 
13 
B 
13 
B 
3. East 3rd Avenue and 
South Railroad Avenue 
TWSC 
E 
AM 
<10 
A 
<10 
A 
<10 
A 
PM 
<10 
A 
<10 
A 
<10 
A 
Source: Fehr & Peers, 2022

--- page 193 ---
HCM 6th AWSC
435 E 3rd Ave TIA
1: South Claremont Street & East 2nd Avenue
AM Existing
Fehr & Peers
Synchro 11 Report
Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
9.5
Intersection LOS
A
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
10
19
11
6
174
48
19
76
10
19
145
39
Future Vol, veh/h
10
19
11
6
174
48
19
76
10
19
145
39
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
11
21
12
7
189
52
21
83
11
21
158
42
Number of Lanes
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
Opposing Approach
WB
EB
SB
NB
Opposing Lanes
1
1
1
1
Conflicting Approach Left
SB
NB
EB
WB
Conflicting Lanes Left
1
1
1
1
Conflicting Approach Right
NB
SB
WB
EB
Conflicting Lanes Right
1
1
1
1
HCM Control Delay
8.3
9.9
8.8
9.6
HCM LOS
A
A
A
A
        
Lane
NBLn1
EBLn1 WBLn1
SBLn1
Vol Left, %
18%
25%
3%
9%
Vol Thru, %
72%
47%
76%
71%
Vol Right, %
10%
28%
21%
19%
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane
105
40
228
203
LT Vol
19
10
6
19
Through Vol
76
19
174
145
RT Vol
10
11
48
39
Lane Flow Rate
114
43
248
221
Geometry Grp
1
1
1
1
Degree of Util (X)
0.155
0.06
0.321
0.287
Departure Headway (Hd)
4.881
4.93
4.663
4.678
Convergence, Y/N
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Cap
730
721
768
766
Service Time
2.939
2.997
2.712
2.728
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.156
0.06
0.323
0.289
HCM Control Delay
8.8
8.3
9.9
9.6
HCM Lane LOS
A
A
A
A
HCM 95th-tile Q
0.5
0.2
1.4
1.2

--- page 194 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
435 E 3rd Ave TIA
2: South Claremont Street & East 3rd Avenue
AM Existing
Fehr & Peers
Synchro 11 Report
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
3
77
10
16
473
33
8
69
15
36
105
21
Future Volume (veh/h)
3
77
10
16
473
33
8
69
15
36
105
21
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
0.99
0.98
0.99
0.96
0.98
0.91
0.94
0.94
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
0.88
1.00
1.00
0.88
1.00
1.00
0.88
1.00
1.00
0.88
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1945
1870
1870
1945
1870
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
3
85
8
18
520
32
9
76
4
40
115
23
Peak Hour Factor
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
58
988
91
84
2096
127
62
281
14
98
207
37
Arrive On Green
0.69
0.69
0.69
0.69
0.69
0.69
0.25
0.25
0.25
0.19
0.19
0.19
Sat Flow, veh/h
17
1441
133
53
3057
185
65
1507
74
229
1111
199
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
96
0
0
319
0
251
89
0
0
178
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln1590
0
0
1846
0
1448
1645
0
0
1538
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
5.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
3.5
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
1.6
0.0
0.0
5.2
0.0
5.3
3.4
0.0
0.0
8.3
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.03
0.08
0.06
0.13
0.10
0.04
0.22
0.13
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 1137
0
0
1314
0
993
357
0
0
342
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.08
0.00
0.00
0.24
0.00
0.25
0.25
0.00
0.00
0.52
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
1137
0
0
1314
0
993
595
0
0
565
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.33
1.33
1.33
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.95
0.00
0.95
0.99
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 4.2
0.0
0.0
4.8
0.0
4.8
25.7
0.0
0.0
29.7
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.6
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln0.5
0.0
0.0
1.8
0.0
1.5
1.3
0.0
0.0
3.1
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
4.3
0.0
0.0
5.2
0.0
5.4
25.9
0.0
0.0
30.2
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
A
A
A
A
A
A
C
A
A
C
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
96
570
89
178
Approach Delay, s/veh
4.3
5.3
25.9
30.2
Approach LOS
A
A
C
C
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
60.0
20.0
60.0
20.0
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.1
5.1
5.1
5.1
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
42.9
26.9
42.9
26.9
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
3.6
10.3
7.3
5.4
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
0.8
0.6
5.9
0.3
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
11.9
HCM 6th LOS
B

--- page 195 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
435 E 3rd Ave TIA
3: South Railroad Avenue & East 3rd Street/East 3rd Avenue
AM Existing
Fehr & Peers
Synchro 11 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.3
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
77
79
241
98
326
79
19
10
11
0
0
0
Future Vol, veh/h
77
79
241
98
326
79
19
10
11
0
0
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
84
86
262
107
354
86
21
11
12
0
0
0
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Conflicting Flow All
440
0
0
348
0
0
776
1039
217
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
385
385
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
391
654
-
Critical Hdwy
4.13
-
-
4.13
-
-
6.63
6.53
6.23
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
5.43
5.53
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
5.83
5.53
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.219
-
- 2.219
-
- 3.519 4.019 3.319
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1118
-
-
1209
-
-
350
230
822
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
687
610
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
653
462
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1118
-
-
1209
-
-
279
0
822
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
279
0
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
620
0
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
575
0
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
HCM Control Delay, s
1.6
1.8
16.1
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
Capacity (veh/h)
368
1118
-
-
1209
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.118 0.075
-
- 0.088
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
16.1
8.5
0
-
8.3
0.3
-
HCM Lane LOS
C
A
A
-
A
A
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.4
0.2
-
-
0.3
-
-

--- page 196 ---
HCM 6th AWSC
435 E 3rd Ave TIA
1: South Claremont Street & East 2nd Avenue
PM Existing
Fehr & Peers
Synchro 11 Report
Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
14.6
Intersection LOS
B
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
11
252
30
10
176
44
27
100
37
77
140
88
Future Vol, veh/h
11
252
30
10
176
44
27
100
37
77
140
88
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
12
274
33
11
191
48
29
109
40
84
152
96
Number of Lanes
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
Opposing Approach
WB
EB
SB
NB
Opposing Lanes
1
1
1
1
Conflicting Approach Left
SB
NB
EB
WB
Conflicting Lanes Left
1
1
1
1
Conflicting Approach Right
NB
SB
WB
EB
Conflicting Lanes Right
1
1
1
1
HCM Control Delay
15.6
13.5
12.2
15.9
HCM LOS
C
B
B
C
        
Lane
NBLn1
EBLn1 WBLn1
SBLn1
Vol Left, %
16%
4%
4%
25%
Vol Thru, %
61%
86%
77%
46%
Vol Right, %
23%
10%
19%
29%
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane
164
293
230
305
LT Vol
27
11
10
77
Through Vol
100
252
176
140
RT Vol
37
30
44
88
Lane Flow Rate
178
318
250
332
Geometry Grp
1
1
1
1
Degree of Util (X)
0.311
0.529
0.421
0.546
Departure Headway (Hd)
6.289
5.979
6.069
5.933
Convergence, Y/N
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Cap
570
602
593
607
Service Time
4.336
4.019
4.113
3.972
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.312
0.528
0.422
0.547
HCM Control Delay
12.2
15.6
13.5
15.9
HCM Lane LOS
B
C
B
C
HCM 95th-tile Q
1.3
3.1
2.1
3.3

--- page 197 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
435 E 3rd Ave TIA
2: South Claremont Street & East 3rd Avenue
PM Existing
Fehr & Peers
Synchro 11 Report
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
9
150
38
25
479
35
16
119
55
26
124
30
Future Volume (veh/h)
9
150
38
25
479
35
16
119
55
26
124
30
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
0.99
0.96
0.98
0.94
0.96
0.87
0.94
0.92
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
0.88
1.00
1.00
0.88
1.00
1.00
0.88
1.00
1.00
0.88
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1945
1870
1870
1945
1870
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
10
167
34
28
532
35
18
132
38
29
138
21
Peak Hour Factor
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
68
837
165
112
1970
127
64
242
65
81
263
37
Arrive On Green
0.66
0.66
0.66
0.66
0.66
0.66
0.28
0.28
0.28
0.21
0.21
0.21
Sat Flow, veh/h
32
1261
248
95
2967
192
73
1163
313
141
1260
176
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
211
0
0
332
0
263
188
0
0
188
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln1541
0
0
1812
0
1441
1549
0
0
1578
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
6.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
4.1
0.0
0.0
5.8
0.0
6.0
8.1
0.0
0.0
8.1
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.05
0.16
0.08
0.13
0.10
0.20
0.15
0.11
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 1070
0
0
1252
0
957
372
0
0
381
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.20
0.00
0.00
0.27
0.00
0.27
0.51
0.00
0.00
0.49
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
1070
0
0
1252
0
957
565
0
0
573
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.33
1.33
1.33
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.93
0.00
0.93
0.65
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 5.2
0.0
0.0
5.5
0.0
5.5
25.8
0.0
0.0
28.3
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.4
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.7
0.3
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln1.3
0.0
0.0
2.1
0.0
1.7
2.9
0.0
0.0
3.2
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
5.6
0.0
0.0
6.0
0.0
6.2
26.1
0.0
0.0
28.7
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
A
A
A
A
A
A
C
A
A
C
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
211
595
188
188
Approach Delay, s/veh
5.6
6.1
26.1
28.7
Approach LOS
A
A
C
C
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
58.2
21.8
58.2
21.8
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.1
5.1
5.1
5.1
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
42.9
26.9
42.9
26.9
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
6.1
10.1
8.0
10.1
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
2.1
0.7
6.3
0.7
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
12.8
HCM 6th LOS
B

--- page 198 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
435 E 3rd Ave TIA
3: South Railroad Avenue & East 3rd Street/East 3rd Avenue
PM Existing
Fehr & Peers
Synchro 11 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
1.8
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
66
188
329
86
338
102
11
10
9
0
0
0
Future Vol, veh/h
66
188
329
86
338
102
11
10
9
0
0
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
72
204
358
93
367
111
12
11
10
0
0
0
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Conflicting Flow All
478
0
0
562
0
0
897
1191
383
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
527
527
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
370
664
-
Critical Hdwy
4.13
-
-
4.13
-
-
6.63
6.53
6.23
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
5.43
5.53
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
5.83
5.53
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.219
-
- 2.219
-
- 3.519 4.019 3.319
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1082
-
-
1007
-
-
294
187
664
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
591
527
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
670
457
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1082
-
-
1007
-
-
230
0
664
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
230
0
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
530
0
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
584
0
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
HCM Control Delay, s
1
1.7
17.3
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
Capacity (veh/h)
326
1082
-
-
1007
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.1 0.066
-
- 0.093
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
17.3
8.6
0
-
8.9
0.4
-
HCM Lane LOS
C
A
A
-
A
A
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.3
0.2
-
-
0.3
-
-

--- page 199 ---
HCM 6th AWSC
435 E 3rd Ave TIA
1: South Claremont Street & East 2nd Avenue
Opening Year AM
Fehr & Peers
Synchro 11 Report
Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
9.5
Intersection LOS
A
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
10
19
11
6
174
48
19
76
10
19
146
39
Future Vol, veh/h
10
19
11
6
174
48
19
76
10
19
146
39
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
11
21
12
7
189
52
21
83
11
21
159
42
Number of Lanes
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
Opposing Approach
WB
EB
SB
NB
Opposing Lanes
1
1
1
1
Conflicting Approach Left
SB
NB
EB
WB
Conflicting Lanes Left
1
1
1
1
Conflicting Approach Right
NB
SB
WB
EB
Conflicting Lanes Right
1
1
1
1
HCM Control Delay
8.3
9.9
8.8
9.6
HCM LOS
A
A
A
A
        
Lane
NBLn1
EBLn1 WBLn1
SBLn1
Vol Left, %
18%
25%
3%
9%
Vol Thru, %
72%
47%
76%
72%
Vol Right, %
10%
28%
21%
19%
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane
105
40
228
204
LT Vol
19
10
6
19
Through Vol
76
19
174
146
RT Vol
10
11
48
39
Lane Flow Rate
114
43
248
222
Geometry Grp
1
1
1
1
Degree of Util (X)
0.155
0.06
0.321
0.288
Departure Headway (Hd)
4.882
4.932
4.665
4.678
Convergence, Y/N
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Cap
730
721
768
765
Service Time
2.94
2.999
2.714
2.729
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.156
0.06
0.323
0.29
HCM Control Delay
8.8
8.3
9.9
9.6
HCM Lane LOS
A
A
A
A
HCM 95th-tile Q
0.5
0.2
1.4
1.2

--- page 200 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
435 E 3rd Ave TIA
2: South Claremont Street & East 3rd Avenue
Opening Year AM
Fehr & Peers
Synchro 11 Report
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
3
78
23
98
448
33
11
69
16
36
106
21
Future Volume (veh/h)
3
78
23
98
448
33
11
69
16
36
106
21
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
0.98
0.99
0.96
0.98
0.91
0.95
0.94
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
0.88
1.00
1.00
0.88
1.00
1.00
0.88
1.00
1.00
0.88
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1945
1870
1870
1945
1870
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
3
86
22
108
492
32
12
76
6
40
116
23
Peak Hour Factor
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
55
849
212
386
1689
109
67
268
19
98
208
37
Arrive On Green
0.69
0.69
0.69
0.69
0.69
0.69
0.25
0.25
0.25
0.19
0.19
0.19
Sat Flow, veh/h
13
1239
309
476
2464
159
89
1431
104
227
1114
198
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
111
0
0
340
0
292
94
0
0
179
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln1561
0
0
1645
0
1454
1624
0
0
1539
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.5
0.0
6.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
3.6
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
1.9
0.0
0.0
5.8
0.0
6.3
3.7
0.0
0.0
8.3
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.03
0.20
0.32
0.11
0.13
0.06
0.22
0.13
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 1116
0
0
1187
0
996
354
0
0
343
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.10
0.00
0.00
0.29
0.00
0.29
0.27
0.00
0.00
0.52
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
1116
0
0
1187
0
996
588
0
0
565
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.33
1.33
1.33
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.95
0.00
0.95
0.99
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 4.3
0.0
0.0
4.8
0.0
5.0
25.8
0.0
0.0
29.7
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.2
0.0
0.0
0.6
0.0
0.7
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln0.6
0.0
0.0
2.0
0.0
1.8
1.4
0.0
0.0
3.2
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
4.4
0.0
0.0
5.4
0.0
5.7
25.9
0.0
0.0
30.2
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
A
A
A
A
A
A
C
A
A
C
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
111
632
94
179
Approach Delay, s/veh
4.4
5.5
25.9
30.2
Approach LOS
A
A
C
C
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
59.9
20.1
59.9
20.1
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.1
5.1
5.1
5.1
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
42.9
26.9
42.9
26.9
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
3.9
10.3
8.3
5.7
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
1.0
0.6
6.8
0.3
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
11.6
HCM 6th LOS
B

--- page 201 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
435 E 3rd Ave TIA
3: South Railroad Avenue & East 3rd Street/East 3rd Avenue
Opening Year AM
Fehr & Peers
Synchro 11 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.3
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
77
91
241
94
312
75
19
10
13
0
0
0
Future Vol, veh/h
77
91
241
94
312
75
19
10
13
0
0
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
84
99
262
102
339
82
21
11
14
0
0
0
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Conflicting Flow All
421
0
0
361
0
0
772
1023
230
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
398
398
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
374
625
-
Critical Hdwy
4.13
-
-
4.13
-
-
6.63
6.53
6.23
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
5.43
5.53
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
5.83
5.53
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.219
-
- 2.219
-
- 3.519 4.019 3.319
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1136
-
-
1196
-
-
352
235
808
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
678
602
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
667
476
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1136
-
-
1196
-
-
282
0
808
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
282
0
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
613
0
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
592
0
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
HCM Control Delay, s
1.6
1.8
15.7
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
Capacity (veh/h)
383
1136
-
-
1196
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.119 0.074
-
- 0.085
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
15.7
8.4
0
-
8.3
0.3
-
HCM Lane LOS
C
A
A
-
A
A
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.4
0.2
-
-
0.3
-
-

--- page 202 ---
HCM 6th AWSC
435 E 3rd Ave TIA
1: South Claremont Street & East 2nd Avenue
Opening Year PM
Fehr & Peers
Synchro 11 Report
Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
14.7
Intersection LOS
B
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
11
252
30
10
176
44
27
101
37
77
140
88
Future Vol, veh/h
11
252
30
10
176
44
27
101
37
77
140
88
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
12
274
33
11
191
48
29
110
40
84
152
96
Number of Lanes
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
Opposing Approach
WB
EB
SB
NB
Opposing Lanes
1
1
1
1
Conflicting Approach Left
SB
NB
EB
WB
Conflicting Lanes Left
1
1
1
1
Conflicting Approach Right
NB
SB
WB
EB
Conflicting Lanes Right
1
1
1
1
HCM Control Delay
15.6
13.5
12.2
16
HCM LOS
C
B
B
C
        
Lane
NBLn1
EBLn1 WBLn1
SBLn1
Vol Left, %
16%
4%
4%
25%
Vol Thru, %
61%
86%
77%
46%
Vol Right, %
22%
10%
19%
29%
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane
165
293
230
305
LT Vol
27
11
10
77
Through Vol
101
252
176
140
RT Vol
37
30
44
88
Lane Flow Rate
179
318
250
332
Geometry Grp
1
1
1
1
Degree of Util (X)
0.313
0.529
0.422
0.547
Departure Headway (Hd)
6.289
5.983
6.074
5.936
Convergence, Y/N
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Cap
570
602
593
607
Service Time
4.34
4.026
4.12
3.977
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.314
0.528
0.422
0.547
HCM Control Delay
12.2
15.6
13.5
16
HCM Lane LOS
B
C
B
C
HCM 95th-tile Q
1.3
3.1
2.1
3.3

--- page 203 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
435 E 3rd Ave TIA
2: South Claremont Street & East 3rd Avenue
Opening Year PM
Fehr & Peers
Synchro 11 Report
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
10
149
47
58
434
35
26
119
56
26
124
30
Future Volume (veh/h)
10
149
47
58
434
35
26
119
56
26
124
30
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
0.99
0.96
0.98
0.94
0.96
0.87
0.94
0.92
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
0.88
1.00
1.00
0.88
1.00
1.00
0.88
1.00
1.00
0.88
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1945
1870
1870
1945
1870
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
11
166
44
64
482
35
29
132
39
29
138
21
Peak Hour Factor
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
70
787
201
243
1757
126
79
234
63
82
267
37
Arrive On Green
0.66
0.66
0.66
0.66
0.66
0.66
0.28
0.28
0.28
0.21
0.21
0.21
Sat Flow, veh/h
34
1190
304
286
2655
191
130
1109
300
142
1264
177
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
221
0
0
316
0
265
200
0
0
188
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln1529
0
0
1690
0
1441
1539
0
0
1582
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
6.1
0.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
4.4
0.0
0.0
5.5
0.0
6.1
8.6
0.0
0.0
8.1
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.05
0.20
0.20
0.13
0.14
0.19
0.15
0.11
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 1058
0
0
1172
0
953
376
0
0
386
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.21
0.00
0.00
0.27
0.00
0.28
0.53
0.00
0.00
0.49
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
1058
0
0
1172
0
953
561
0
0
574
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.33
1.33
1.33
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.93
0.00
0.93
0.65
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 5.3
0.0
0.0
5.5
0.0
5.6
25.8
0.0
0.0
28.1
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.4
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.7
0.3
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln1.4
0.0
0.0
2.0
0.0
1.8
3.1
0.0
0.0
3.2
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
5.8
0.0
0.0
6.0
0.0
6.3
26.1
0.0
0.0
28.5
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
A
A
A
A
A
A
C
A
A
C
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
221
581
200
188
Approach Delay, s/veh
5.8
6.2
26.1
28.5
Approach LOS
A
A
C
C
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
58.0
22.0
58.0
22.0
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.1
5.1
5.1
5.1
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
42.9
26.9
42.9
26.9
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
6.4
10.1
8.1
10.6
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
2.2
0.7
6.2
0.7
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
13.0
HCM 6th LOS
B

--- page 204 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
435 E 3rd Ave TIA
3: South Railroad Avenue & East 3rd Street/East 3rd Avenue
Opening Year PM
Fehr & Peers
Synchro 11 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
1.7
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
66
197
329
81
315
95
11
10
9
0
0
0
Future Vol, veh/h
66
197
329
81
315
95
11
10
9
0
0
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
72
214
358
88
342
103
12
11
10
0
0
0
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Conflicting Flow All
445
0
0
572
0
0
884
1158
393
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
537
537
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
347
621
-
Critical Hdwy
4.13
-
-
4.13
-
-
6.63
6.53
6.23
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
5.43
5.53
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
5.83
5.53
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.219
-
- 2.219
-
- 3.519 4.019 3.319
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1113
-
-
999
-
-
300
195
655
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
585
522
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
688
478
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1113
-
-
999
-
-
238
0
655
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
238
0
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
526
0
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
606
0
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
HCM Control Delay, s
0.9
1.7
16.9
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
Capacity (veh/h)
334
1113
-
-
999
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.098 0.064
-
- 0.088
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
16.9
8.5
0
-
9
0.4
-
HCM Lane LOS
C
A
A
-
A
A
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.3
0.2
-
-
0.3
-
-

--- page 205 ---
HCM 6th AWSC
435 E 3rd Ave TIA
1: South Claremont Street & East 2nd Avenue
Opening Year Plus Project AM
Fehr & Peers
Synchro 11 Report
Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
9.6
Intersection LOS
A
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
10
20
12
6
184
48
19
76
10
19
146
40
Future Vol, veh/h
10
20
12
6
184
48
19
76
10
19
146
40
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
11
22
13
7
200
52
21
83
11
21
159
43
Number of Lanes
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
Opposing Approach
WB
EB
SB
NB
Opposing Lanes
1
1
1
1
Conflicting Approach Left
SB
NB
EB
WB
Conflicting Lanes Left
1
1
1
1
Conflicting Approach Right
NB
SB
WB
EB
Conflicting Lanes Right
1
1
1
1
HCM Control Delay
8.4
10.1
8.9
9.7
HCM LOS
A
B
A
A
        
Lane
NBLn1
EBLn1 WBLn1
SBLn1
Vol Left, %
18%
24%
3%
9%
Vol Thru, %
72%
48%
77%
71%
Vol Right, %
10%
29%
20%
20%
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane
105
42
238
205
LT Vol
19
10
6
19
Through Vol
76
20
184
146
RT Vol
10
12
48
40
Lane Flow Rate
114
46
259
223
Geometry Grp
1
1
1
1
Degree of Util (X)
0.156
0.063
0.336
0.291
Departure Headway (Hd)
4.917
4.946
4.68
4.708
Convergence, Y/N
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Cap
725
719
766
760
Service Time
2.979
3.014
2.73
2.763
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.157
0.064
0.338
0.293
HCM Control Delay
8.9
8.4
10.1
9.7
HCM Lane LOS
A
A
B
A
HCM 95th-tile Q
0.6
0.2
1.5
1.2

--- page 206 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
435 E 3rd Ave TIA
2: South Claremont Street & East 3rd Avenue
Opening Year Plus Project AM
Fehr & Peers
Synchro 11 Report
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
3
78
23
98
458
33
11
69
16
36
107
21
Future Volume (veh/h)
3
78
23
98
458
33
11
69
16
36
107
21
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
1.00
0.98
0.99
0.96
0.98
0.91
0.95
0.95
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
0.88
1.00
1.00
0.88
1.00
1.00
0.88
1.00
1.00
0.88
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1945
1870
1870
1945
1870
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
3
86
22
108
503
32
12
76
6
40
118
23
Peak Hour Factor
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
0.91
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
55
848
212
379
1698
107
67
269
19
97
210
37
Arrive On Green
0.68
0.68
0.68
0.68
0.68
0.68
0.25
0.25
0.25
0.19
0.19
0.19
Sat Flow, veh/h
13
1239
309
468
2479
157
89
1431
104
225
1120
196
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
111
0
0
346
0
297
94
0
0
181
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln1561
0
0
1649
0
1454
1624
0
0
1540
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.6
0.0
6.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
3.6
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
1.9
0.0
0.0
6.0
0.0
6.5
3.7
0.0
0.0
8.4
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.03
0.20
0.31
0.11
0.13
0.06
0.22
0.13
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 1115
0
0
1188
0
996
356
0
0
344
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.10
0.00
0.00
0.29
0.00
0.30
0.26
0.00
0.00
0.53
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
1115
0
0
1188
0
996
588
0
0
565
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.33
1.33
1.33
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.95
0.00
0.95
0.99
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 4.3
0.0
0.0
4.9
0.0
5.0
25.7
0.0
0.0
29.7
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.2
0.0
0.0
0.6
0.0
0.7
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln0.6
0.0
0.0
2.0
0.0
1.8
1.4
0.0
0.0
3.2
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
4.5
0.0
0.0
5.5
0.0
5.7
25.9
0.0
0.0
30.2
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
A
A
A
A
A
A
C
A
A
C
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
111
643
94
181
Approach Delay, s/veh
4.5
5.6
25.9
30.2
Approach LOS
A
A
C
C
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
59.9
20.1
59.9
20.1
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.1
5.1
5.1
5.1
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
42.9
26.9
42.9
26.9
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
3.9
10.4
8.5
5.7
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
1.0
0.6
6.9
0.3
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
11.6
HCM 6th LOS
B

--- page 207 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
435 E 3rd Ave TIA
3: South Railroad Avenue & East 3rd Street/East 3rd Avenue
Opening Year Plus Project AM
Fehr & Peers
Synchro 11 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.6
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
77
93
242
94
323
75
29
10
13
0
0
0
Future Vol, veh/h
77
93
242
94
323
75
29
10
13
0
0
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
84
101
263
102
351
82
32
11
14
0
0
0
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Conflicting Flow All
433
0
0
364
0
0
781
1038
233
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
401
401
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
380
637
-
Critical Hdwy
4.13
-
-
4.13
-
-
6.63
6.53
6.23
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
5.43
5.53
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
5.83
5.53
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.219
-
- 2.219
-
- 3.519 4.019 3.319
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1125
-
-
1193
-
-
347
230
805
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
675
600
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
662
470
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1125
-
-
1193
-
-
278
0
805
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
278
0
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
610
0
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
587
0
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
HCM Control Delay, s
1.6
1.8
17.3
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
Capacity (veh/h)
349
1125
-
-
1193
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.162 0.074
-
- 0.086
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
17.3
8.5
0
-
8.3
0.3
-
HCM Lane LOS
C
A
A
-
A
A
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.6
0.2
-
-
0.3
-
-

--- page 208 ---
HCM 6th AWSC
435 E 3rd Ave TIA
1: South Claremont Street & East 2nd Avenue
Opening Year Plus Project PM
Fehr & Peers
Synchro 11 Report
Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
15
Intersection LOS
B
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
11
257
35
10
178
44
27
101
37
77
140
88
Future Vol, veh/h
11
257
35
10
178
44
27
101
37
77
140
88
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
12
279
38
11
193
48
29
110
40
84
152
96
Number of Lanes
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
Opposing Approach
WB
EB
SB
NB
Opposing Lanes
1
1
1
1
Conflicting Approach Left
SB
NB
EB
WB
Conflicting Lanes Left
1
1
1
1
Conflicting Approach Right
NB
SB
WB
EB
Conflicting Lanes Right
1
1
1
1
HCM Control Delay
16.1
13.7
12.3
16.2
HCM LOS
C
B
B
C
        
Lane
NBLn1
EBLn1 WBLn1
SBLn1
Vol Left, %
16%
4%
4%
25%
Vol Thru, %
61%
85%
77%
46%
Vol Right, %
22%
12%
19%
29%
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane
165
303
232
305
LT Vol
27
11
10
77
Through Vol
101
257
178
140
RT Vol
37
35
44
88
Lane Flow Rate
179
329
252
332
Geometry Grp
1
1
1
1
Degree of Util (X)
0.316
0.549
0.428
0.551
Departure Headway (Hd)
6.35
5.999
6.117
5.988
Convergence, Y/N
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Cap
565
599
588
603
Service Time
4.401
4.04
4.163
4.031
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.317
0.549
0.429
0.551
HCM Control Delay
12.3
16.1
13.7
16.2
HCM Lane LOS
B
C
B
C
HCM 95th-tile Q
1.3
3.3
2.1
3.3

--- page 209 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary
435 E 3rd Ave TIA
2: South Claremont Street & East 3rd Avenue
Opening Year Plus Project PM
Fehr & Peers
Synchro 11 Report
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
10
149
47
58
436
35
26
119
56
26
129
30
Future Volume (veh/h)
10
149
47
58
436
35
26
119
56
26
129
30
Initial Q (Qb), veh
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)
0.99
0.96
0.98
0.94
0.96
0.87
0.94
0.92
Parking Bus, Adj
1.00
1.00
0.88
1.00
1.00
0.88
1.00
1.00
0.88
1.00
1.00
0.88
Work Zone On Approach
No
No
No
No
Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/ln
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1945
1870
1870
1945
1870
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h
11
166
44
64
484
35
29
132
39
29
143
21
Peak Hour Factor
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
0.90
Percent Heavy Veh, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Cap, veh/h
70
787
201
242
1759
126
79
234
63
81
269
36
Arrive On Green
0.66
0.66
0.66
0.66
0.66
0.66
0.28
0.28
0.28
0.21
0.21
0.21
Sat Flow, veh/h
34
1190
304
285
2658
190
131
1110
301
138
1274
172
Grp Volume(v), veh/h
221
0
0
318
0
265
200
0
0
193
0
0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln1529
0
0
1691
0
1442
1541
0
0
1585
0
0
Q Serve(g_s), s
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
6.1
0.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s
4.4
0.0
0.0
5.5
0.0
6.1
8.6
0.0
0.0
8.3
0.0
0.0
Prop In Lane
0.05
0.20
0.20
0.13
0.14
0.19
0.15
0.11
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 1059
0
0
1173
0
954
376
0
0
386
0
0
V/C Ratio(X)
0.21
0.00
0.00
0.27
0.00
0.28
0.53
0.00
0.00
0.50
0.00
0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h
1059
0
0
1173
0
954
561
0
0
575
0
0
HCM Platoon Ratio
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.33
1.33
1.33
1.00
1.00
1.00
Upstream Filter(I)
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.93
0.00
0.93
0.65
0.00
0.00
1.00
0.00
0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 5.3
0.0
0.0
5.5
0.0
5.6
25.8
0.0
0.0
28.2
0.0
0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh
0.4
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.7
0.3
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
%ile BackOfQ(50%),veh/ln1.4
0.0
0.0
2.0
0.0
1.8
3.1
0.0
0.0
3.3
0.0
0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh
LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh
5.8
0.0
0.0
6.0
0.0
6.3
26.1
0.0
0.0
28.6
0.0
0.0
LnGrp LOS
A
A
A
A
A
A
C
A
A
C
A
A
Approach Vol, veh/h
221
583
200
193
Approach Delay, s/veh
5.8
6.2
26.1
28.6
Approach LOS
A
A
C
C
Timer - Assigned Phs
2
4
6
8
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s
58.0
22.0
58.0
22.0
Change Period (Y+Rc), s
5.1
5.1
5.1
5.1
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s
42.9
26.9
42.9
26.9
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s
6.4
10.3
8.1
10.6
Green Ext Time (p_c), s
2.2
0.7
6.2
0.7
Intersection Summary
HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
13.0
HCM 6th LOS
B

--- page 210 ---
HCM 6th TWSC
435 E 3rd Ave TIA
3: South Railroad Avenue & East 3rd Street/East 3rd Avenue
Opening Year Plus Project PM
Fehr & Peers
Synchro 11 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
1.7
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
66
197
329
81
315
97
11
10
9
0
0
0
Future Vol, veh/h
66
197
329
81
315
97
11
10
9
0
0
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
72
214
358
88
342
105
12
11
10
0
0
0
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Conflicting Flow All
447
0
0
572
0
0
884
1160
393
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
537
537
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
347
623
-
Critical Hdwy
4.13
-
-
4.13
-
-
6.63
6.53
6.23
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
5.43
5.53
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
5.83
5.53
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.219
-
- 2.219
-
- 3.519 4.019 3.319
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1111
-
-
999
-
-
300
195
655
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
585
522
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
688
477
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1111
-
-
999
-
-
238
0
655
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
238
0
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
526
0
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
606
0
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
HCM Control Delay, s
0.9
1.7
16.9
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
Capacity (veh/h)
334
1111
-
-
999
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.098 0.065
-
- 0.088
-
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
16.9
8.5
0
-
9
0.4
-
HCM Lane LOS
C
A
A
-
A
A
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.3
0.2
-
-
0.3
-
-

--- page 211 ---
TDM Plan 
October 2022 
 
 
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan 
 
 
 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
  24105302

--- page 212 ---


--- page 213 ---
Steer has prepared this material for City of San Mateo. This material may only be used within the context and scope for 
which Steer has prepared it and may not be relied upon in part or whole by any third party or be used for any other 
purpose. Any person choosing to use any part of this material without the express and written permission of Steer shall be 
deemed to confirm their agreement to indemnify Steer for all loss or damage resulting therefrom. Steer has prepared this 
material using professional practices and procedures using information available to it at the time and as such any new 
information could alter the validity of the results and conclusions made. 
TDM Plan 
October 2022 
 
 
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan 
 
 
 
 
Prepared by: 
Prepared for: 
Steer 
1502-80 Richmond St W 
Toronto, ON M5H 2A4 
Canada 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue  
San Mateo, CA 94403 
+1 (647) 260 4860 
www.steergroup.com 
   
  24105302

--- page 214 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 
Contents 
1 
Introduction .................................................................................................................... 1 
Project Description .................................................................................................................. 1 
Demography and Travel Trends ............................................................................................... 3 
2 
Site Assessment .............................................................................................................. 5 
Site Geography and Road Network.......................................................................................... 5 
Pedestrian and Bicycle Infrastructure ...................................................................................... 6 
Transit Services ........................................................................................................................ 9 
Nearby Destinations .............................................................................................................. 10 
Available TDM Services .......................................................................................................... 10 
3 
Project TDM Measures .................................................................................................. 11 
TDM Coordinator ................................................................................................................... 11 
New Hire/Resident Packets ................................................................................................... 12 
TDM Communications ........................................................................................................... 14 
Sustainable Transportation Incentive .................................................................................... 15 
Bicycle Support Facilities ....................................................................................................... 15 
4 
Optional TDM Measures................................................................................................ 17 
Institutionalizing TDM ........................................................................................................... 17 
Multimodal Wayfinding ......................................................................................................... 18 
Bike Education and Promotion .............................................................................................. 18 
Interior Bicycle Parking .......................................................................................................... 19 
GO Pass and Way2Go Pass Provision/Transit Subsidy ........................................................... 20 
Shared Mobility Support ........................................................................................................ 20 
Promotional Programs ........................................................................................................... 20 
5 
Impact of TDM Measures .............................................................................................. 22 
Program Impacts ................................................................................................................... 22 
TDM Program for 435 East 3rd Avenue .................................................................................. 22 
Individual Strategies .............................................................................................................. 23

--- page 215 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 
6 
Monitoring ................................................................................................................... 24 
Annual Survey ........................................................................................................................ 24 
 
Figures 
Figure 1. Zoning Map ......................................................................................................................... 2 
Figure 2: Transportation Mode Share ................................................................................................ 3 
Figure 3: Census Tract Inflow and Outflow ........................................................................................ 4 
Figure 4: Street Network.................................................................................................................... 5 
Figure 5: 20-minute pedestrian shed for 435 E. 3rd Avenue ............................................................. 6 
Figure 6: Existing Bicycle Network ..................................................................................................... 7 
Figure 7: Level of Stress for Cyclists ................................................................................................... 8 
Figure 8: New Resident Packet distributed in Santa Monica ........................................................... 13 
Figure 9: Multimodal Wayfinding Decals used in Tulsa.................................................................... 18 
 
 
Tables 
Table 1. Proposed Project Attributes ................................................................................................. 2 
Table 2: Where People Work ............................................................................................................. 4 
Table 3: Transit Services and Frequency ............................................................................................ 9 
Table 4: Assigned Schools to Project Site ......................................................................................... 10 
Table 5: Cumulative TDM Strategies ................................................................................................ 22 
 
 
Appendices 
A  
TDM ROI Calculator 
B 
Background Assessment

--- page 216 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | i

--- page 217 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 1 
A Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan is a long-term management strategy for an 
organization or site that seeks to deliver sustainable transportation objectives. It is articulated in a 
document that is regularly reviewed by the implementing organization. It identifies an appropriate 
package of measures aimed at promoting sustainable travel, with an emphasis on reducing 
reliance on single occupancy vehicle (SOV) trips and vehicle miles traveled (VMT). It can also assist 
in meeting other objectives, such as increasing and reducing congestion, greenhouse gases, and 
noise.  
This TDM Plan was produced on behalf of the City of San Mateo (City) for the 435 E. 3rd Avenue 
project site, which is a proposed mixed-use building owned and being developed by Windy Hill 
Property Ventures (referred to as ‘the developer’ or as ‘Windy Hill’ throughout this document).   
Project Description 
The project site is located at the northwest corner of S. Claremont Street and E. 3rd Avenue and is 
also bounded by S. Railroad Avenue and 2nd Avenue in Central San Mateo within the 94401 Zip 
Code. This project involves the demolition of existing on-site structures to construct a five-story 
mixed-use development consisting of office uses and residential units. The project includes:  
• 
34,000 square feet of office space  
• 
Five residential units 
• 
No onsite parking  
The site is a 10,980 sq. ft. (0.25-acre) city block zoned CBD/S – Central Business District Support. As 
shown in Figure 1, the areas immediately to the north, south, and west of the project site are also 
zoned CBD/S, while the area to the east of the site, Downtown San Mateo, is zoned CBD – Central 
Business District. The zoning in the area allows for high-density residential, retail, cultural, 
entertainment, and community service uses, which can generate congestion around the project 
site. The areas further to the north, east, and west mainly accommodate lower traffic generating 
uses such as Multiple Family Dwellings (High Density).  
1 Introduction

--- page 218 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 2 
Figure 1. Zoning Map 
 
Source: City of San Mateo 
The project site allows a maximum FAR of 3.0 and an allowable height of 55 ft. The project 
proposes to pay CPID in-lieu fees for all required parking instead of providing on-site parking. The 
project will also be using the state density bonus to increase the FAR from 3.00 to 3.66. Table 1 
compares details from the project site’s current use and its proposed use. 
 
Table 1. Proposed Project Attributes 
 
Current 
Proposed 
Description  
2 single story buildings; industrial 
One 5-story mixed-use building  
Square Footage 
1,175 sq. ft. 
40,152 sq. ft.  
Zoning Designation 
CBD/S – Central Business District 
Support 
CBD/S – Central Business District 
Support  
 
As per the San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC), the project requires a total of 72 parking spaces – 
69 spaces for commercial office use and 3 spaces for residential use.  The parking ratio 
recommended for the office use is 1.87 spaces per 1,000 ft2 due to the increasing trend of hybrid 
and remote working schedules. For the residential units, the parking ratio will be 0.5 space per 
unit as allowed under the State Density Bonus Law. The project will provide 3 short-term bicycle 
parking spaces and 9 long-term bicycle parking spaces for residential and commercial use.  
The office and residential community will be managed by a property manager once units are 
available for rent.

--- page 219 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 3 
Demography and Travel Trends  
The project site is located within census tract (residential area) 6063 and has a population of 4,110 
people. The travel trends described in this section are based on 2019 data from the Census Bureau 
for the project’s census tract. 
Demographic Snapshot 
About seventeen percent (17%) of the population currently located in the census tract is under 
the age of 18, with the median age and average household size being 39.2 and 2.2, respectively. 
This information suggests that the project site is in an area with young families that may add 
school or childcare trips into their scheduling, thereby generating more trips in the area. Forty-
nine percent (49%) of the households in the census tract live in rental housing units. 
 
Travel Trends  
According to Census Reporter data from 2019, the majority (72%) of residents that live within the 
census tract drive alone to work. It is also reported that 21% of the population use sustainable 
modes of transportation to commute to work, such as public transit, carpooling, and walking, 
while another 5% of the population work from home. Of those that commute to work, the 
average travel time is 27.6 minutes. However, commuting patterns have been impacted by the 
pandemic, and post-pandemic scenarios might also produce new commuting patterns as more 
organizations implement hybrid and flexible working habits.  
The residents within the census tract commute to a variety of locations for work. The most 
popular work location is the City of San Francisco, followed by the City of San Mateo, as shown in 
Table 2. 
Figure 2: Transportation Mode Share

--- page 220 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 4 
 
Table 2: Where People Work 
Job Locations 
Count 
Share 
San Francisco, CA 
407 
20.6% 
San Mateo, CA 
305 
15.4% 
Redwood City, CA 
134 
6.8% 
Palo Alto, CA 
115 
5.8% 
South San Francisco, CA 
83 
4.2% 
Burlingame, CA 
69 
3.5% 
Foster City, CA 
62 
3.1% 
San Jose, CA 
53 
2.7% 
San Carlos, CA 
50 
2.5% 
Menlo Park, CA 
47 
2.4% 
All Other Locations 
650 
32.9% 
All Places (Cities, CDPs, etc.) 
1,975 
100% 
 
Inflow/Outflow analysis of the census tract, as shown in Figure 3, depicts those 1,862 individuals 
who commute out of the area and the 8,091 people who commute into the area for work on a 
daily basis. A total of 113 individuals both live and work inside the census tract. 
 
Figure 3: Census Tract Inflow and Outflow

--- page 221 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 5 
A site assessment was conducted as part of the TDM Plan development process. The site 
assessment included a description of the site’s geography and road network, pedestrian and 
bicycle infrastructure, transit services, nearby attractions, and existing TDM services. For the 
complete assessment, please refer to Appendix B. Key findings from the site assessment are 
provided below. 
Site Geography and Road Network 
The project site is on the southeast corner of the city block bound by 2nd Avenue to the north, 
Claremont Avenue to the east, E. 3rd Avenue to the south, and Railroad Avenue to the west. The 
site has access to:   
• 
Arterial Streets such as 2nd Avenue and 3rd Avenue  
• 
San Mateo Caltrain station, north of project site  
• 
Restaurants and commercial facilities on S. Claremont and 3rd Avenue. 
Figure 4: Street Network 
 
Source: City of San Mateo Public Works 
2 Site Assessment

--- page 222 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 6 
To access areas outside of San Mateo, such as the East Bay, East 3rd Avenue can be used as a 
connection to J. Hart Clinton Drive which provides access to the San Mateo-Hayward Bridge.  East 
3rd Avenue also connects to US 101, providing drivers access to destinations as far as San 
Francisco, Palo Alto, and Mountain View within 20 minutes. 
Pedestrian and Bicycle Infrastructure  
The site’s location in Downtown San Mateo and access to transit make it conducive to pedestrian 
and bicycle travel. The walkability website Walkscore.com gives the site a 99/100 score for 
walking, which they describe as a “Walker’s Paradise – Daily errands do not require a car”. The 
walkshed for the project area is seen in Figure 5. 
Currently, S. Claremont Street serves as the closest bike route to the project site. The S. Claremont 
Street bike route (a Class III route) connects to the San Mateo Caltrain station and to the bike lane 
network that encompasses S. Delaware Street, creating multiple access opportunities for cyclists 
(as shown in Figure 6). Improvements to Claremont Street are proposed in the 2020 San Mateo 
Bike Master Plan as a high priority bikeway project. 
Figure 5: 20-minute pedestrian shed for 435 E. 3rd Avenue 
 
Source: WalkScore.com

--- page 223 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 7 
Figure 6: Existing Bicycle Network 
 
Source: City of San Mateo 2020 Bicycle Master Plan 
2nd Avenue, E. 3rd Avenue, E. 4th Avenue, and S. Delaware Street experience enough traffic to 
classify as “High Stress” streets in the April 2020 San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan, leaving them 
more suited to experienced cyclists. However, the streets are still in a high bicycle connectivity 
area which makes cycling appealing. Claremont Street is classified as “Low Stress” and offers 
connections to other bicycle routes.

--- page 224 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 8 
Figure 7: Level of Stress for Cyclists 
 
Source: City of San Mateo 2020 Bicycle Master Plan  
Nearby amenities include bike lockers and repair stations. BikeLink operates 24 on-demand bike 
lockers at the San Mateo Caltrain Station. BikeLink allows cyclists to securely store their bikes in 
lockers using a stored-value card that can be purchased online or from nearby vendors. 
Additionally, there are two free-to-use public bike repair stations within one mile of the project 
site, located at the San Mateo Caltrain Station and San Mateo Public Library. 
City of San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan 
The City of San Mateo 2020 Bicycle Master Plan was adopted by the City Council on April 6, 2020 
and serves as a blueprint for expanding and improving the San Mateo bicycle and mobility 
network in the coming years. The Plan includes eight recommendations related to the 435 E. 3rd 
Avenue project site. Five of those recommendations (numbers 1-5 below) are designated as “high 
priority” projects by the Plan: 
1. Bicycle boulevard along S. Claremont Street between State Street and 9th Avenue,  
2. Class II buffered bike lane along B Street between 5th Avenue and 16th Avenue,  
3. Class IV separated bike lane along Delaware St. between 3rd Avenue and 4th Avenue,  
4. Class IV separated bike lane along 4th Ave. between Delaware Street and Humboldt Street,  
5. Bike boulevard on 5th Ave. between Delaware Street. and Amphlett Boulevard,  
6. Class II bike lane on 5th Ave.  between Virginia Avenue and El Camino Real, 
7. Class IV separated bike lane along 3rd Avenue between El Camino Real and Humboldt Street, 
and

--- page 225 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 9 
Transit Services  
The project site is located a 0.2-mile walk of the Downtown San Mateo Caltrain Station. The 
project site is also served by eight San Mateo County Transit District (SamTrans) routes.  
Table 3: Transit Services and Frequency 
Transit Service  Hours of 
Operation 
Frequency 
Closest Stop 
Distance to 
Closest Stop 
Cost (Adult 
Age 19 through 
64) 
SamTrans 
Route 53 
School Drop 
Off/Pick Up 
Hours Only 
- 
Delaware 
Street and 2nd 
Avenue  
0.1 mile 
$2.05 Clipper 
SamTrans 
Route 55 
School Drop 
Off/Pick Up 
Hours Only  
- 
El Camino and 
4th Avenue  
0.5 mile  
$2.05 Clipper 
SamTrans 
Route 59 
School Drop 
Off/Pick Up 
Hours Only 
- 
Delaware 
Street and 4th 
Avenue 
0.2. mile 
$2.05 Clipper 
SamTrans 
Route 250 
Weekdays: 
5:40 AM – 
11:40 PM;  
Saturdays: 
7:00 AM – 8:40 
PM 
Weekday:  
30 minutes  
Weekend:  
60 minutes 
Claremont 
Street and 2nd 
Avenue 
400 ft. 
$2.05 Clipper 
SamTrans 
Route 295 
Weekdays: 
6:20 AM – 6:40 
PM 
Weekday:  
120 minutes 
B Street and 
1st Avenue 
0.2 mile 
$2.05 Clipper 
SamTrans 
Route 292 
Weekdays and 
Saturdays: 
4:00 AM – 2:30 
AM 
Weekday:  
20 minutes  
Weekend:  
60 minutes 
Delaware 
Street and 2nd 
Avenue 
0.2 mile  
$2.05 Clipper 
SamTrans 
Route 397 
Weekdays and 
Saturdays: 
Early AM hours 
(12:30 AM – 
5:00 AM) 
Weekday: 
60 minutes  
Weekend:  
60 minutes 
El Camino Real 
and 2nd 
Avenue 
0.5 mile  
$2.05 Clipper 
SamTrans ECR  
All day 
Weekday:  
15-20 minutes  
Weekend:  
30 minutes  
El Camino Real 
and 2nd 
Avenue 
0.5 mile  
$4.00 Clipper 
Caltrain 
Weekdays: 
4:30 AM – 1:40 
AM; 
Weekends: 
7:00 AM – 2:00 
AM 
Weekday:  
30 minutes 
Weekend:  
60 minutes 
San Mateo 
Station  
0.2 mile  
$3.75 + $2.25 
per zone  
**Depending on distance

--- page 226 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 10 
 
Nearby Destinations  
Key destinations near the project site include: 
• 
Nine shopping centers and a walkable downtown center within three miles of the project site 
that offer access to retail shops, restaurants, grocery stores, banks, pharmacies, and gyms 
• 
Over five restaurants within one mile of the project site 
• 
Over two dozen childcare facilities within two miles of the project site 
• 
Three parks within one mile walking distance of the project site  
• 
Over a dozen schools within 3.5 miles of the project site   
 
Table 4: Assigned Schools to Project Site 
Nearby Schools 
Travel distance 
(miles)  
San Mateo High School 
0.9 
Laurel Elementary School 
3.1 
Abbott Middle School 
3.4 
 
 
Available TDM Services  
Commute.org Incentives 
Commute.org is San Mateo County’s Transportation Demand Management Agency. Their 
resources are available to all residents and employees in the County. As such, the residents and 
employees of the project site will be able to take advantage of TDM resources curated for those 
commuting within the County and in the surrounding areas. The Commute.org website serves as a 
regional clearinghouse for all transportation and commuting-related information. They also 
provide the following services: 
• 
Try Transit Incentives: Commute.org provides a ‘try transit’ program that allows individuals to 
request free tickets for the transit option that works best for them.  
• 
Vanpool Incentives: Drivers of a new vanpool can earn a $500 reward, and vanpool riders can 
be reimbursed $100/month of their costs for up to three months.  
• 
Bike Education: Free bike safety workshops and bike marketing materials are available to 
residents and commuters. These are scheduled upon request and are available to employers 
and other sites, including residential properties, within San Mateo County.  
• 
Bike Incentives: Commute.org currently provides commuters who live or work in San Mateo 
County with incentives worth between $25 to $100 for biking to work. To participate in the 
program, bike commuters must track their work commutes using the Strava app. The rides 
are then recorded in the STAR platform, Commute.org’s incentive delivery platform, where 
commuters can access their incentives

--- page 227 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 11 
The TDM strategies in this section are effective and appropriate TDM measures based on the 
project’s size, location, and land use. They provide guidelines for implementation, cost estimates, 
and expected timelines, and indicate the anticipated responsible party for each recommended 
measure. It is understood that the property management team will be the ‘responsible party’ for 
most TDM measures outlined below.  
A City of San Mateo guideline based on the Sustainable Streets Final Plan (SSP) (accepted by City 
Council in February 2015), recommends that all new developments within the Downtown core 
submit a TDM plan with a trip reduction target of 25 percent. However, the SSP has not been 
formally adopted and is therefore a guideline, not a formal requirement. This section aims to 
estimate the percentage of trips that each strategy can reduce for the property based on an 
estimated 309 daily trips generated by the property. It is important to note that many of the TDM 
strategies in this section are scalable and can easily be expanded by increasing the amount of 
resources allocated. The remaining TDM strategies play a supportive role in increasing the impact 
of the other strategies listed.  
C/CAG TDM Program 
As of January 1, 2022, the C/CAG TDM Policy requires that local jurisdictions in San Mateo County 
notify C/CAG of any new development within their purview that is estimated to generate at least 
100 Average Daily Trips. Applicants then are required to submit a TDM Checklist alongside their 
development application acknowledging that their projects will achieve a target trip reduction. 
Based on their guidelines, the 435 E 3rd Avenue project is required to demonstrate a 25% trip 
reduction through TDM measures utilizing C/CAG’s worksheet calculations. The TDM Measures 
laid out in this plan will allow the Applicant to achieve that required reduction. 
TDM Coordinator  
A TDM coordinator would help develop, implement, and report on the TDM strategies 
implemented at the project site. This person would be responsible for coordinating and marketing 
the selected TDM strategies as well as maintaining working relationships with the City and nearby 
developments.  
Windy Hill also owns two existing buildings and one project in its planning application stage that 
are located within a few blocks of the 435 E. 3rd Avenue project site. The TDM coordinator could 
be a joint resource across these local projects, including their existing projects at 406 E. 3rd 
Avenue, 405 E. 4th Avenue and their new one at 500 E. 3rd Avenue. Maintaining the same TDM 
Coordinator across these developments could also reduce cost for the developer. 
3 Project TDM Measures

--- page 228 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 12 
Implementation Guidelines 
An individual from the property management team will be assigned the role of TDM Coordinator 
to plan and implement the TDM program. The TDM Coordinator should aim to spend about five 
hours a month on the following activities:  
• 
Annual Monitoring: Survey the residents and employees to compile a monitoring report for 
submission to the City of San Mateo annually.  
• 
TDM Program Coordination and Outreach: Organize and promote sustainable travel options 
through building communications such as emails, newsletters, and social media.  
 
 
Estimated timeframe  
Ongoing  
Estimated cost  
$2,000 per year  
Responsible party  
Property Management team 
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
23 to 46 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced 
Spending 5 hours per month organizing TDM programs will lead 
to a 0.9% to 1.6% decrease in vehicle trips (can be reduced 
further with an increased commitment in time and TDM 
strategies) 
 
New Hire/Resident Packets  
Individuals are most likely to make a change in their transportation behavior alongside other life 
changes. This means that providing new residents or new tenant employees with a packet that 
offers them all their transportation options would increase the likelihood for them to choose 
options other than driving alone. 
New residents and employees will be provided with welcome packets that include a transit pass, 
customized transportation information about nearby transit routes, bus stops, bike maps and 
routes and other TDM initiatives undertaken by the property. The welcome packets should also 
include the contact information of the property’s TDM Coordinator. Figure 8 offers an example of 
a welcome packet distributed to new residents in Santa Monica, CA.

--- page 229 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 13 
 
Implementation Guidelines:  
Design a New Hire/Resident Packet for the property that provides information on all 
transportation modes available as well as services that may make choosing sustainable travel 
easier. The TDM Coordinator can work directly with Commute.org, who can assist the property in 
purchasing Clipper Cards as well as provide supportive materials, commuter incentives, and 
advice. The packet should include: 
• 
A GO Pass and/or Way2Go Pass (optional) 
• 
Map depicting a 10- and 20-minute walk and bicycle radius  
• 
Information about the transit options available (SamTrans and Caltrain) and how to connect 
to them including Park and Ride options  
• 
Information about all the transportation related amenities offered by the property 
• 
Information about Commute.org services and resources 
• 
Information about Guaranteed Ride Home and how to register  
 
Estimated timeframe  
Ongoing  
Estimated cost  
$2,000 per year to develop packet, then up to $3 per packet to 
print and distribute. Approximately $2,500 total 
With the optional inclusion of Way2GO/GO pass:  $75/$342 per 
person, approximately 29 new employees (see Table A.5 in 
appendix) per $12,093. Total cost is approximately $14,593 
Responsible party  
Property Management team 
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
109 to 122 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced 
3.8% to 4.2% 
 
Figure 8: New Resident Packet distributed in Santa Monica

--- page 230 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 14 
TDM Communications  
To encourage individuals to choose sustainable travel options, it is critical to provide them with 
the information needed to do so. Having a communications plan that outlines what information to 
share and how would set clear expectations for the TDM Coordinator.  
Communicating Transportation Information: 
• 
Website - Having all transportation-related information and resources available in one virtual 
location makes it easy and convenient for residents and employees to learn about their travel 
options. The webpage should provide information about relevant special offers and programs 
from outside agencies (such as the Peninsula Clean Energy e-bike subsidy while there is 
funding), nearby transit routes and schedules, bike and pedestrian paths, services offered by 
Commute.org, and other amenities. This is especially helpful for residents new to the 
neighborhood or employees coming from outside of the City who are unaware of the 
transportation options available to them. 
• 
Resident and Employee Bulletin Boards – Include TDM messaging in residents bulletin boards 
or other visible locations such as elevator screens on a regular basis to inform and update 
residents of sustainable travel options, upcoming events, and activities. Commute.org sends 
out regularly scheduled newsletters that provide up-to-date transportation information to 
utilize on boards or screens.  
• 
Newsletters and Social Media Posts – Promote transportation options and updates via the 
apartment website and social media channels such as Facebook, Instagram, and Nextdoor, 
and include transportation information in newsletters or other communication distributed to 
tenants. 
• 
Transit Screen- Transportation screens that provide real-time transit departures and arrivals 
to the property. 
Transportation Options to Promote: 
• 
All TDM incentives and services offered by the property to 435 East 3rd E. Avenue residents 
and employees  
• 
Resources for trip planning, including Transit app, Google Maps or Citymapper offer excellent 
smartphone-based trip planning options  
• 
Commute.org information about the resources available to residents and employees, 
especially information regarding the mode-specific resources and subsidies offered.  
• 
Information about the Guaranteed Ride Home (GRH) or Emergency Ride Home (ERH) 
programs offered by the surrounding counties (e.g., Commute.org's GRH program for 
commuters who work in San Mateo County, Alameda County's GRH program, Marin County’s 
ERH program, etc.).  
• 
Information about Safe Routes to School programs 
• 
Locally accessible transit information including Information about bikes on board Caltrain, 
secure bike parking, and Park and Ride lots and at the Downtown San Mateo Station and 
Hayward Park Station 
• 
Information about biking, including links to local bike maps and cycling resources

--- page 231 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 15 
Implementation Guidelines:  
Create a webpage that lives on or is linked from the property’s resident/tenant facing website and 
includes all the above listed information, at a minimum. Commute.org offers a comprehensive 
transportation resources website free of charge that provides much of the above information. 
Develop a regular schedule for newsletters and social media posts and promote relevant 
transportation information regularly through employee and resident bulletin boards. 
 
 
Estimated timeframe  
Ongoing  
Estimated cost  
$1000 per year assuming it shares TDM communications 
strategy with surrounding buildings  
Responsible party  
Property Management  
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
3 to 6 
Estimated daily vehicle trips 
reduced 
0.3% to 0.7% 
 
Sustainable Transportation Incentive  
Providing incentives for alternative modes of transportation other than transit can help incentivize 
people to try new modes. This will be provided to individuals who use a sustainable mode of 
transportation other than transit at least 3 days per week. This provides individuals with the 
flexibility of using different modes of transportation such as cycling, walking and carpooling.  
Implementation Guide: 
Provide $100 vouchers to employees who use a sustainable mode of transportation to work other 
than transit.  This can take the form of a gas card for those who carpool or vanpool, gift cards to 
local bike shops for those who ride bicycles, or just a cash/gift card distribution.  
Estimated timeframe  
Monthly  
Estimated cost  
$100 per tenant per month (employees and residents), 
costing approximately $5,000 per month. Cost estimate is 
based on 50 individuals participating in the program.  
Responsible party  
Applicant/Property Management  
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
565 to 628 
Estimated of daily vehicle trips reduced 
16.8 to 18.8% 
 
Bicycle Support Facilities  
Some commuters are interested in walking or cycling to work because of the exercise it provides 
but are discouraged by the idea of arriving to a worksite without a place to refresh, particularly in

--- page 232 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 16 
hot weather. Provision of showers and lockers allows them to do so in a clean and comfortable 
environment before they start their workdays. 
Implementation Guidelines 
The applicant has provided plans for locker rooms, including showers, on the ground floor of the 
435 E. 3rd Ave. development. Property management should ensure locker rooms and shower 
facilities are kept clean and usable.  
 
Estimated timeframe  
Facility construction at development phase, maintenance 
ongoing 
Estimated cost  
$0 as already included in applicant plan 
Responsible party  
Applicant/Property Management  
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
7 to 16 
Estimated of daily vehicle trips reduced 
0.32% to 0.65% 
Please note the calculations for the bicycle support strategy includes Interior Bicycle Parking, refer to section to 
Interior Parking in chapter 4

--- page 233 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 17 
Institutionalizing TDM  
It is important that the TDM program is implemented as the site becomes occupied, and that it 
can be updated as needs change due to tenant turnover or introduction of new options in 
transportation and technology. Therefore, the TDM Plan should become institutionalized as part 
of the property’s organizational structure to ensure the program remains in place and new 
tenants are aware of its existence. 
Implementation Guidelines:  
Institutionalize the TDM Program through the apartment and office tenant leases. Describe the 
TDM infrastructure, amenities, programs available to residents and employees, and how they will 
be made available to the tenants. 
Estimated timeframe  
During the drafting of lease language and ongoing 
Estimated cost  
$0 – it is likely that this cost will already be undertaken by the 
property management in order to establish the details of the 
lease agreement, so including TDM in this effort will likely come 
at no additional cost.  
Responsible party  
Property Management  
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
0 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced 
0% 
 
4 Optional TDM Measures

--- page 234 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 18 
Multimodal Wayfinding  
The developer might want to provide 
multimodal wayfinding signage at entry and 
exit points of the property. Wayfinding can 
help people visualize the time to nearby 
amenities using sustainable travel options. 
Examples of wayfinding window decals used in 
the City of Tulsa, Oklahoma are shown in 
Figure 6. 
 
Implementation Guidelines:  
Using consistent and legible design guidelines, 
create and post a network of pedestrian-scale 
signage at key entry and exit points of the 
property. The signs should point users to 
relevant destinations and give them estimates 
for how far away they are by walking and/or 
biking. For example  
• 
4 minute walk to San Mateo Station 
• 
9 minute walk to San Mateo Central Park 
• 
15 minute-bike ride to Hillsdale Shopping Center 
Be sure to evaluate the signage regularly to take into consideration any infrastructural or service 
changes that may impact options. 
Estimated timeframe  
Pre-occupancy 
Estimated cost  
$500 -$2,500 per year depending on technology  
Responsible party  
Property Management  
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
1 to 2 
Estimated daily vehicle trips 
reduced 
0% 
Bike Education and Promotion 
The property could partner with local bike advocacy groups, bike shops, or Commute.org to host 
bike safety workshops, educate residents and employees on the basics of biking, and share 
educational resources such as maps of nearby bike amenities like BikeLink lockers at train stations.   
Implementation Guidelines:  
Partner with Commute.org or a local bike advocacy organization to organize a bicycle safety 
training webinar or workshop annually. Commute.org offers free bike training workshops to 
employers and residential properties within San Mateo County. 
Figure 9: Multimodal Wayfinding Decals used in Tulsa

--- page 235 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 19 
Promote the workshop or webinar along with additional resources on the property’s dedicated 
website, resident or employee newsletter/bulletin board, and social media. Some additional 
resources to share with residents and employees include:  
• 
Bike Safety and Rules of the Road  
• 
Family Biking - How to Bike Safely with Adults and Kids of Any Age  
• 
Biking maps and trails  
 
Estimated timeframe  
75% occupancy, annually  
Estimated cost  
$500 per year  
Responsible party  
Property management to coordinate  
Estimated daily VMT reduced 
2 to 5 
Estimated daily vehicle trips 
reduced 
0.3% to 0.6% 
 
Interior Bicycle Parking 
Allowing residents and employees to bring bicycles to their desks and residences helps prevent 
theft that may occur at outdoor parking locations. 
Implementation Guidelines 
In addition to the 3 short-term bicycle spaces and 9 long-term spaces provided by the developer in 
their site plan, ensure that residents and employees are able to bring their bicycles into their 
residences and offices. This may include making sure elevators and doorways can accommodate 
bicycles and providing office space with ample room for storage. 
Estimated timeframe  
Ongoing 
Estimated cost  
$0 
Responsible party  
Property Management  
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
VMT reductions have been accounted for in the “bicycle 
support facilities” strategy  
Estimated daily vehicle trips reduced 
Trips reductions have been accounted for in the “bicycle 
support facilities” strategy

--- page 236 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 20 
GO Pass and Way2Go Pass Provision/Transit Subsidy  
Providing subsidized transit passes can help increase transit ridership. Discounted transit passes 
can be used as a strategy to encourage individuals to use public transit. This provides increased 
flexibility for those who might still opt to drive occasionally. 
Implementation Guide:  
Partner with Caltrain and SamTrans to provide free transit options to employees and residents: 
Estimated timeframe 
Monthly  
Estimated cost  
Approximately $342/employee for GO pass, $75/employee 
for Way2Go. Based on an estimate of 136 employees, 
employee cost estimate is $56,712 annually. Based on an 
estimate of 11 residents and Way2GO pricing of $40/resident 
and $342/resident, residential cost estimate is approximately 
$4,202 Total cost estimate is $60,914 annually 
Responsible party  
Property Management  
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
467 to 519 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced 
18.1% to 20.1% 
 
Shared Mobility Support  
Providing shared bikes and scooters to tenants, particularly residents, is an excellent way to 
further encourage bike ridership. Biking could easily replace driving for short trips and local 
errands under three miles. Use of e-bikes can increase the bike-shed even further, to around 
seven miles.    
Implementation Guidelines:  
If and when private shared mobility options are provided in San Mateo, work with locally 
operating vendor to provide discounted access to residents and employees. This could include 
monthly passes, if that is an option available from the provider, or set discounts per ride.  
 
Estimated timeframe  
Ongoing 
Estimated cost  
$10,000 to $15,000 per year depending on cost and number 
of bikes, ongoing maintenance. 
Administrative costs will vary based on program structure  
Responsible party  
Property management to coordinate  
Estimated daily VMT reduced 
1 to 2 
Estimated daily vehicle trips 
reduced 
0% 
Promotional Programs 
Contests, promotions and prizes can be used as a strategy to provide awareness about 
transportation options available to employees, residents, and visitors. This can be in the form of

--- page 237 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 21 
short-term or long-term commute challenges and events that encourage the trail use of a new 
modes of commuting.  
Implementation Guidelines:  
Promote monthly or quarterly commute challenges that encourage individuals to try new modes 
of transportation, promotion can be done via the TDM communication’s webpage. As incentives, 
include prizes in the form of gift cards, rewards points and transit subsidies. 
Estimated timeframe  
Ongoing  
Estimated cost  
$2,000-5,000 per year depending on the number of 
participants  
Responsible party  
Property Management  
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
8 to 17  
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced 
0.32% to 0.65%

--- page 238 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 22 
If implemented correctly and consistently, the TDM program outlined in Chapters 3 and 4 is 
forecasted to result in a daily reduction of over 700 vehicle miles traveled (VMT), which would 
lead to a reduction in over 200 kilograms of carbon dioxide every day. The proposed TDM 
program also complies with the C/CAG’s TDM requirements by incorporating each of the 
measures required and, according to the checklist provided by C/CAG, exceeding the trip 
reduction target of 25%, with an overall reduction of 26.5%. 
Beyond the C/CAG checklist, which provides flat percentage reduction estimates for each strategy, 
this TDM Plan utilizes the TDM Return on Investment (ROI) Calculator, a tool owned by Mobility 
Lab and developed by university and governmental partners. The TDM ROI Calculator helps 
practitioners and policy makers understand the benefits of their investment in TDM strategies and 
programs by calculating estimated vehicle trips, VMT, hours of congestion delay, and emissions 
reduced, with more specific consideration given to number of expected users, daily trips taken, 
and average trip distances for each strategy. Based on the ROI calculator, the package of TDM 
measures will reduce daily vehicle trips by an estimated 22-25%. More information about the TDM 
ROI Calculator and assumptions made to calculate estimated impacts are included in Appendix A.  
Program Impacts  
TDM Program for 435 East 3rd Avenue 
Table 5 outlines the total estimated VMT and congestion hours reduced with the recommended 
TDM program for the project site. 
 
Table 5: Cumulative TDM Strategies 
435 E 3rd Avenue 
Annual VMT 
Reduced 
Annual Vehicle 
Trips Reduced 
% of trips 
reduced 
Daily 
Congestion 
Reduced 
Carbon Dioxide 
Reduced (kg) 
Low Est. 
High 
Est. 
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
Low 
Est 
High 
Est. 
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
Project TDM Measures 
174,629 
202,046 
16,769 
19,513 
22.0% 
25.6% 
22,230 
26,182 
67,678 
78,052 
Optional Strategies 
118,313 
134,615 
14,326 
16,302 
18.8% 
21.4% 
15,067 
16,796 
45,695 
52,117 
Project TDM Measures 
and Optional TDM 
Measures 
292,942 
336,661 
31,122 
35,815 
40.8% 
46.9% 
32,297 
42,978 
113,373 
130,169 
 
5 Impact of TDM Measures

--- page 239 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 23 
Individual Strategies 
Strategy 
Daily VMT 
Reduced 
Daily Vehicle 
Trips Reduced 
% Of Daily Trip 
Reduced  
Daily 
Congestion 
Reduced 
(hours of 
delay) 
Daily Carbon 
Dioxide Reduced 
(kg) 
  
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
Low 
Est. 
High Est. 
Combined TDM 
Coordinator 
23 
46 
3 
5 
0.97% 
1.62% 
3 
7 
9 
18 
New Resident + New 
Employee Packet  
109 
122 
12 
13 
3.88% 
4.21% 
14 
16 
42 
47 
TDM Communications 
3 
6 
0 
1 
0.00% 
0.32% 
0 
1 
1 
2 
Sustainable Transport 
Incentive  
565 
628 
52 
58 
16.8% 
18.8% 
73 
82 
219 
243 
Bike Support and 
Internal Bike Parking  
7 
16 
1 
2 
0.32% 
0.65% 
0 
0 
3 
6 
Institutionalizing TDM 
at the Property 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Multimodal Support 
1 
2 
0 
0 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0 
0 
0 
1 
Bike Education and 
Promotion 
2 
5 
1 
2 
0.32% 
0.65% 
0 
1 
1 
2 
Shared Micromobility 
support 
1 
2 
0 
0 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0 
0 
0 
1 
GO Pass and Way2Go 
provision 
467 
519 
56 
62 
18.1% 
20.1% 
61 
67 
181 
201 
Wayfinding to outside 
building 
(signs/stickers) 
1 
2 
0 
0 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0 
0 
0 
1 
Promotional Programs  
8 
17 
1 
2 
0.32% 
0.65% 
0 
1 
3 
6

--- page 240 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 24 
The City of San Mateo will require the site to perform annual monitoring and reporting. Ongoing 
monitoring will help the project site track the impact of their TDM programs, as well as provide a 
regular schedule for evaluating programming and identifying gaps and opportunities. The results 
will help the project adjust programs to better meet the needs of their residents and employees.  
The City of San Mateo’s general conditions for approval stipulate that all new developments must 
submit a Trip Reduction and Parking Management Plan and submit an annual monitoring report.  
Annual Survey 
The City of San Mateo requires an annual letter to the Public Works Director or designee that 
outlines the TDM measures implemented and information from a mode split survey.  
To comply with City requirements, the TDM Coordinator will conduct an annual resident and 
employee survey to understand commute patterns and the modes by which they commute. 
During the first year of occupancy, an initial survey should be conducted to establish a baseline to 
which future surveys will be compared. 
The baseline survey and the subsequent annual surveys should ask questions to understand how 
residents and employees travel for different types of trips and understand barriers to sustainable 
travel. To gain an insight into the resident’s and employee’s travel characteristics and attitudes, 
the survey should identify the following key topics: 
• 
Mode of travel by trip purpose (work, school, leisure, etc.) 
• 
Work location 
• 
Business travel requirements, if applicable 
• 
Daycare or school pick-up/drop-off location, if applicable  
• 
Flexible working arrangements, if applicable 
• 
Improvements to the main mode of travel 
• 
Current barriers to walking/biking 
• 
Ideas for how the property could encourage walking, biking, carpooling and transit 
• 
Car ownership 
• 
Level of awareness of the property’s TDM amenities  
• 
Feedback on amenities and services currently available to the residents 
• 
Other services or amenities that are not currently offered which would encourage residents 
to try a different mode of travel 
The survey results allow the property to not only track program progress but also identify ways to 
adjust the program and further shift travel behavior towards more sustainable modes (transit, 
bike, walk, and carpool) over time. The TDM Coordinator could use the data to understand which 
6 Monitoring

--- page 241 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 25 
amenities are popular and should remain, which are not effective and should be adjusted, and 
identify additional measures to implement in their place.

--- page 242 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 26 
Appendices

--- page 243 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 27 
The Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Return on Investment-(ROI) Calculator is a tool 
owned by Mobility Lab, an Arlington County, Virginia, funded transportation behavior and policy 
research center. It was developed in partnership with university and governmental partners, with 
funding from the Federal Highway Administration, to provide TDM program staff, transportation 
planners, and others involved in implementing TDM services a quantifiable way to estimate the 
ROI for TDM services.  
According to the TDM ROI Calculator User Manual, the model calculates impacts for individual 
TDM services then combines the individual impacts, with discounts to account for overlap 
between services, to determine the cumulative impact of all services. 1 
The calculator performs the following functions:  
• 
Estimates TDM travel impacts, defined as reductions in commute vehicle trips and vehicle 
miles travelled (VMT), from a user-defined package of TDM services  
• 
Converts vehicle trip and VMT reductions into societal benefits, such as reduction in hours of 
travel time delay and gallons of gasoline saved  
• 
Calculates the societal cost savings from each benefit and the overall cost saving from all 
benefits combined  
• 
Compares the societal cost saving to the TDM program "investment" cost to estimate ROI  
As most TDM programs do not have detailed VMT and trip reduction data, the ROI Calculator 
instead asks for user participation numbers and program costs as the inputs for its calculations. 
The model then uses four calculation factors derived from TDM service user surveys along with 
pre-set regional inputs and national environmental data to estimate the number of participants 
who will shift behavior and the number of daily vehicle trips, VMT and hours of congestion that 
their behavior shift will reduce. If more detailed regional and national data are known, they can be 
input to override the preset data used for calculation.   
The inputs used for calculating the VMT and vehicle trip reductions for the 435 East 3rd Avenue 
plan are outlined below so that the results can be duplicated with ease.  
 
 
 
1 Mobility Lab.(2019).TDM ROI Calculator User Manual Retrieved from https://mobilitylab.org/calculators/ 
A TDM ROI Calculator

--- page 244 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 28 
A1 
Regional Inputs  
At the outset in Section A (Your Region, Service Area Type and Transit Availability), the TDM ROI 
Calculator asks users to make a series of selections to determine geographic and transit 
characteristics of the area being examined. The options selected for the 435 East 3RD Avenue TDM 
Plan are displayed in Table A.1 as follows:  
Table A.1: Selections made for region, service area type and transit availability   
Questions in the ROI Calculator 
Option Selected for the TDM Plan 
Metropolitan Region 
San Francisco-Oakland-Hayward, CA 
Primary land use density and development pattern 
Moderate density   
Primary focus of TDM program outreach  
Primarily to commuters at worksites/through 
employers 
Percentage of commuters within 1/2 mi of 
bus/train stop in the service area  
76% to 100% of commuters are within 1/2 mile of a 
bus or train stop 
Average public transit frequency in the service area 
in the morning peak period (Select ONLY ONE 
option) 
Moderate-Average rush hour frequency for most 
routes is 16-30 minutes  
With the above inputs selected, the model determines the classifications for the project site as 
follows in Table A.2: 
Table A.2: Project site TDM service area and transit availability classifications  
Your TDM Service Area classification is: 
Suburban/Small city 
Your Transit Availability classification is: 
High Transit

--- page 245 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 29 
A2 
Regional Travel, Environmental and Cost Benefit Factors  
The final section of the ROI Calculator (Section F - Additional Regional/Service Area Data 
Environmental Inputs) shows the default numbers used for regional travel, environmental and 
cost benefit factors. Users have the option to override these defaults by inputting values into the 
“User Defined” cells if specific local factors are known. Table A.3 shows the defaults assumed by 
the model and indicates if the defaults were overridden, and which values were used. The inputs 
defined in Table A.3 remained the same for all calculations for the 435 East 3RD Avenue plan. 
Table A.3: Travel, vehicle pollutant emission, and benefit cost factor default and user defined values   
Regional Travel Factors 
Regional 
Default 
User 
Defined  
Average home-to-work commute miles for the region (one-way distance)  
9.6 
13.91 
Percentage of regional commuters who drive alone to work OR percentage 
of weekly commute trips made by driving alone  
63.2% 
72%2 
Percentage of regional commuters who ride public transit to work OR 
percentage of weekly commute trips made by transit  
17.6% 
15%2 
Regional Vehicle Pollutant Emission Factors 
National 
Default 
User 
Defined 
Oxides of Nitrogen (NOx) emission rate in grams per mile of travel  
0.445 
0.171 2 
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) emission rate in grams per mile of travel  
0.075 
0.0354 
Greenhouse gas (Carbon Dioxide Equivalent) emission rate in grams per mile 
of travel  
387.460 
342.0004 
Regional Benefit Cost Factors 
Regional 
Default 
User 
Defined  
Median average wage rate for commuters in the service area or 
metropolitan region  
$24.90 
$49.711 
Estimated average annualized cost to build/maintain one lane-mile of major 
roadway (combination of Interstate and limited access roadway) 
$165,000 
N/A 
Average pump price per gallon for regular unleaded gasoline 
$3.36 
$5.503 
1 Source: San Mateo Economic Development Association’s Labor Supply and Commute Patterns in San Mateo County 
Report, 2012.  
2 Source: ACS 2018 5-year for the Census Tract 6063, Census.gov 
3 Source: AAA Gas Prices  
4 Source: California Air Resources Board Emissions Factors (EMFAC) database

--- page 246 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 30 
Assumptions 
Resident Characteristics Assumptions 
To estimate potential participation numbers, some assumptions about the number of individuals 
living at the property at 100% occupancy were made. These assumptions begin with the 
knowledge that there will be 5 units for rent. The assumptions and the basis for each are outlined 
in Table A.4.  
Table A.4: 435 East 3rd Avenue resident and employee characteristics assumptions  
Category 
Assumption and Basis 
Number 
Total number of people 
residing at the property at full 
occupancy 
ACS data indicates that there are 2.2 persons per 
household in the census tract 6063 and there will be 5 
residential units 
11 
Children under 18 
ACS data shows that 17% of the census tract’s 
population is children 
2 
Adults 
Subtracting children from the total population  
9 
Number of residential 
commuters 
ACS data shows that 30.3% of people residing in the 
census tract are not in the labor force 
7 
Number of employee 
commuters  
California building code prescribes a minimum 100 sq. 
ft. per occupant for office space and there will be 
43,000 sq. ft. of office space.  
 
136 
 
ROI Calculator Participation and Calculation Factors Assumptions 
In order to use the ROI calculator to calculate estimated impacts for the 435 East 3RD Avenue 
project, assumptions were made to estimate participation rate for each strategy. Additionally, if a 
strategy was not outlined as a direct input in the model, assumptions were made to estimate the 
calculation factors associated with it. Table A.5 outlines those assumptions.

--- page 247 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 1 
 
Table A.5: 435 East 3RD Avenue Calculation Assumptions  
Strategy 
ROI Calc Input  
Participation 
Assumption 
(per year) 
Basis for Participation Assumption 
Placement 
rate (%) 
Assumption 
Vehicle Trip 
Reduction 
Factor 
Assumption 
One-Way 
Commute 
Distance 
Assumption 
Drive-Alone 
Access  % 
Assumption  
Combined TDM 
Coordinator  
Comprehensive 
commute 
assistance 
15 
Organize all TDM activities on the 
property and assist 10% of residents 
and tenants with questions about 
transportation including one-on-one 
assistance when asked and promoting 
sustainable transportation options  
40% 
Pre-set in 
mode 
0.8 
Pre-set in 
model 
19.8 miles 
Pre-set in 
model 
40% 
Pre-set in model 
New Resident 
Packet  
Alternative mode 
“try it” incentive 
 
 
29 
Each household on the property would 
receive a packet. At a minimum, the 
transit users (15%, 21) would take 
advantage of the cards and an 
additional 5% (8) will “try it” based on 
the transit mode split and ease of 
accessing the incentive 
50% 
Pre-set in 
model 
1 
Pre-set in 
model 
19.8 miles 
Pre-set in 
model 
40% 
Pre-set in model 
TDM 
Communications 
Commute 
program website  
50 
10% of adults would access webpage 
for transportation info and incentives 
and approximately 25% would see the 
newsletter and social media 
communications, especially if they are 
included with communications 
regarding other property updates.  
35% 
Pre-set in 
model 
0.3 
Pre-set in 
model 
19.8 miles 
Pre-set in 
model 
40% 
Pre-set in model 
Sustainable 
Transportation 
Incentive  
On-going 
Multimodal 
96 
About ¾ of the adult of the 
population will be eligible to 
participate in program (those that 
don’t use transit subsidy benefit)  
50% 
Preset in 
model 
1.2 
Preset in 
model 
11.5 
Preset in 
model 
20% 
Preset in model 
Bike Support 
+Internal Parking  
Custom 
10 
3% of Commuters will use it and an 
additional 2 users will use it based on 
the placement rate 
30% 
1.2 
Used the same 
pre-set for a 
10.0 
Average 
doable biking 
40%  
Pre-set in model

--- page 248 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
October 2022 | 2 
bike commute 
program 
distance 
according to 
Mobility  
Lab A1 
Institutionalizing 
TDM at the 
Property 
Targeted 
residential 
marketing 
143 
All residential and employee 
commuters at the property would see 
and sign the lease 
 
1% 
Pre-set in 
model 
0.5 
Pre-set in 
model 
19.8 miles 
Pre-set in 
model 
40% 
Pre-set in model 
Wayfinding to 
outside building 
(signs/stickers) 
Targeted 
residential 
marketing 
147 
The decals would be visible to all 
residents, visitors and employees 
 
1% 
Pre-set in 
model 
0.5 
Pre-set in 
model 
19.8 miles 
Pre-set in 
model 
40% 
Pre-set in model 
Bike Education and 
Promotion 
Custom 
3 
Approximately 3 individuals will attend 
the workshop based on cycling mode 
share from census tract.  
20% 
Pre-set in 
model (for 
commute 
challenges/ 
events) 
1.2 
Used the same 
pre-set for a 
bike commute 
program 
10 miles 
Average 
doable biking 
distance 
according to 
Mobility  
Lab A1  
40% 
Pre-set in model 
Shared Micro 
mobility Support 
New Mode 
Options  
7 
5% of the population carpools and 
with an additional incentive more 
people could be motivated to 
carpool 
 
40% 
Preset in 
model  
 
1.2 
Preset in 
model 
 
4.5 
Preset in 
model  
 
0% 
Preset in model 
 
GOPass and 
Way2Go 
Provision/Transit 
Subsidy  
On-going transit 
incentive  
147 
Transit passes will be provided for 
the total population aged 5+ 
35% 
Preset in 
model 
1.2 
Preset in 
model 
8.6 
Preset in 
model 
10% 
Preset in model  
Promotional 
Programs 
Commute 
Challenges/Events 
37 
Transit users at a minimum will take 
advantage of promotional programs, 
and an additional 15% of tenants will 
“try it” based on incentives  
Preset in 
model 
20% 
Preset in 
model 
0.3 
Preset in 
model 
19.8 
Preset in model  
40%

--- page 249 ---
435 East 3rd Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
B Background Assessment

--- page 250 ---
Control Information 
Prepared by 
Prepared for 
Steer 
1502-80 Richmond St W 
Toronto, ON M5H 2A4 
Canada 
+1 (647) 260 4860 
www.steergroup.com 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue  
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Steer project/proposal number 
Client contract/project number 
24105302 
 
 
Author/originator 
Reviewer/approver 
Barbara Ledesma 
Titi Onabanjo 
 
Other contributors 
Distribution 
Client: 
Steer: 
 
Version control/issue number 
Date

--- page 251 ---
steergroup.com

--- page 252 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Ashley Snodgrass
Sent:
Monday, February 6, 2023 2:03 PM
To:
Rendell Bustos
Cc:
Manira Sandhir; Mary Way
Subject:
FW: Windy Hill proposal
Hi Rendell, 
 
Please see the public comment below. 
 
Ashley 
 
‐‐‐‐‐Original Message‐‐‐‐‐ 
From: Judith Paton 
  
Sent: Monday, February 6, 2023 1:16 PM 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Windy Hill proposal 
 
Since the State of CA is going to get tougher about our providing more housing, I think you should insist that Windy Hill 
reduce office space to the first floor only and build the remaining four floors as apartments. A significant number of 
those should be for low income buyers.  
If Windy Hill doesn’t care to help out with our housing needs, the land should be offered to a different developer. I hope 
WH would accept, as their 3rd St buildings are more attractive and on keeping with our older downtown than the two 
along B St.  
Thank you 
Judith Paton 
  
 
Sent from my iPhone

--- page 253 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Rendell Bustos
Sent:
Tuesday, October 25, 2022 3:52 PM
To:
l watanuki
Cc:
Subject:
RE: 435 E. 3rd Avenue - Questions
Hi Laurie, 
 
Based on codes in place currently, the project would be responsible for 17 spaces (including the residential spaces). The 
staff report will go into more detail on this topic. I can let you know when the full staff report is available. 
 
Thanks, 
 
Rendell Bustos 
Senior Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650‐522‐7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org  
      
 
‐‐‐‐‐Original Message‐‐‐‐‐ 
From: l watanuki <
>  
Sent: Tuesday, October 25, 2022 2:20 PM 
To: Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: 
 
Subject: Re: 435 E. 3rd Avenue ‐ Questions 
 
Rendell, 
 
How many in‐lieu parking spaces is Windy Hill paying for the 39,893 sf?   Did they differentiate the number of Office 
Parking Spaces and the number of residential parking spaces?  
 
Laurie 
 
 
 
 
> On Oct 20, 2022, at 3:45 PM, Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
>  
> Hi Laurie, 
>  
> Thanks for your questions below. Here are my responses: 
>  
> 1. I am not recollecting other projects that requested a density bonus waiver or concession/incentive to waive on‐site 
parking requirements. However, the projects at 180 E. 3rd Avenue (former Aaron Brothers building), 2 E. 3rd Avenue 
(corner of 3rd and El Camino), and 221 S. El Camino Real (corner of 3rd and El Camino) were approved and constructed 
without on‐site parking and paid in lieu fees for all required parking. 
>  
> 2. No, the Main Street Garage is closed from 2 am to 5 pm.

--- page 254 ---
2
>  
> 3. The metric used for the initial study is one employee per 300 square‐feet. 
>  
> Let me know if you have additional questions, thanks. 
>  
> Rendell Bustos 
> Senior Planner | Community Development Department 
> 330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403 
> 650‐522‐7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org 
>  
>  
> ‐‐‐‐‐Original Message‐‐‐‐‐ 
> From: l watanuki <
> 
> Sent: Thursday, October 20, 2022 10:36 AM 
> To: Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> 
> Cc: 
 
> Subject: 435 E. 3rd Avenue ‐ Questions 
>  
> Hi Rendell, 
>  
> 1.      Has any other developer in San Mateo requested with a density bonus waiver the by‐passing of on‐site parking 
requirements with payment of all parking through in‐lieu fees? 
>  
> 2.      Is there parking available in the Main Street Garage for office space and residential parking 24/7? 
>  
> 3.      What is the number being used for the square footage allotted for each office worker now.  I have heard various 
numbers from 100 sf, 175 sf, and 200 sf at different meetings.  Can you clarify this? 
>  
> Thanks. 
> Laurie 
>  
>  
> * PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended only for the use 
of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from 
disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this 
message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the original 
sender immediately by telephone or by return e‐mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your 
computer. Thank you.

--- page 255 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Laurie Hietter <
>
Sent:
Friday, October 28, 2022 10:17 AM
To:
Rendell Bustos
Cc:
Christina Horrisberger; Manira Sandhir
Subject:
Re: Comments on the 435 E. 3rd Ave. IS/MND
Attachments:
Comments on 435 E Third Ave IS-MND.pdf
Good morning,  
 
I do have two questions for you: 
 
Will you be extending the comment deadline? 
Can I please get a copy of the comments that were submitted? 
 
Thank you, 
Laurie 
 
 
On Oct 27, 2022, at 1:37 PM, Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
  
Good afternoon Laurie, 
  
Your comments are received, which I will review internally with staff and our environmental consultant. 
I will follow up in a week or so with a response after our internal review. Let me know if there are 
immediate questions, thanks. 
  
‐Rendell 
  
 
Rendell Bustos 
Senior Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650‐522‐7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org

--- page 256 ---
2
 
  
 
  
 
  
From: Laurie Hietter <
>  
Sent: Thursday, October 27, 2022 1:28 PM 
To: Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Christina Horrisberger <chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Comments on the 435 E. 3rd Ave. IS/MND 
  
Dear Mr. Bustos: 
  
My comments on the Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration for the proposed project at 435 E. 3rd 
Ave are attached for your consideration.  
  
The IS/MND is in many areas a well‐prepared document; however, it has a number of inadequate 
assessments due to faulty, best‐case assumptions. These analyses should be redone and the IS/MND 
recirculated. 
  
We look forward to reviewing a revised IS/MND with more accurate assumptions and analyses.  
 
 
Sincerely, 
Laurie Hietter 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended 
only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is 
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby 
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you 
have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by 
return e‐mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.

--- page 257 ---
Hietter Comments on 435 E. 3rd Ave. IS/MND 
1 
10.27.22 
 
COMMENTS ON 435 E. 3RD AVE. IS/MND 
KEY POINTS 
1. The IS/MND uses best‐case or inappropriate assumptions for many analyses, making the 
IS/MND inadequate. These analyses should be redone and the IS/MND recirculated.  
2. 20 days is not adequate for citizens to review and digest the over 500 pages of IS/MND 
and technical reports. Please extend the comment period. 
3. There are many complicated mitigation measures. The Mitigation Monitoring and 
Reporting Plan should be provided with the IS/MND to ensure there will be adequate 
monitoring and reporting. 
4. The project’s one affordable unit makes a mockery of the process.  
5. The project is not needed. There is over 700,000 sq. ft. of office space approved or 
planned downtown and San Mateo has a jobs/housing imbalance. 
6. The architecture is modern, utilitarian, and cheap. Boxes on top of a box. Does San 
Mateo not have a design review board? 
7. The Logistics Plan and Traffic Control Plan should be analyzed as part of the project. 
The traffic management during construction is very important because of the traffic 
backups from the Caltrain at‐grade crossing delays. The IS/MND is deficient due to this 
omission. 
8. The number of employees is undercounted because 300 square feet per employee is used 
in impact analysis calculations. A more realistic and conservative number is 150 square 
feet per employee. This more realistic allocation would result in 224 employees, which is 
more than double what is analyzed in the IS/MND. The air quality, noise, traffic, and 
public services sections must be reanalyzed using the more realistic, or a worst‐case 
scenario (100 square feet per employee). The IS/MND is deficient because it is based on 
an inaccurate assumption with no reference.  
9. The proposed project would result in a cumulative significant impact on the nearby and 
downtown historic resources. An EIR should be prepared to address the significant 
cumulative impacts on the downtown context.  
10. The proposed project will cause a significant cumulative impact on traffic, shade, and 
wind in the downtown area.  
11. The project will exacerbate the jobs/housing imbalance and should not be approved.  
12. The project will add to the cumulative lack of adequate parkland.  
13. Please specify if the conditions of approval are considered mitigation measures that will 
mitigate impacts to less than significant levels. 
14. The cumulative noise and vibration analysis did not consider all buildings that may be 
constructed at the same time, such as 180 E. 3rd Ave. and Draeger’s, which could be 
under construction at the same time as the proposed project. The grade separations 
could also be constructed in a similar timeframe. The analysis should not be best case 
but should be redone.

--- page 258 ---
Hietter Comments on 435 E. 3rd Ave. IS/MND 
2 
10.27.22 
 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
p. 9, 3.21 Parking and Access 
The description of parking references the Kiku Crossing City garage. The parking for that 
building has already been committed to the projects at 3rd and El Camino Real (which have no 
parking) and Kiku Crossing (Kiku and the garage removed surface parking).  
The in‐lieu parking fee is essentially deferred mitigation because addition parking will need to 
be constructed. The IS/MND is inadequate. 
AESTHETICS 
The IS/MND authors have misinterpreted the requirement in SB 743 to consider the aesthetic 
effects of a project on historic resources. Aesthetic effects of a project are exempt except for the 
analysis of aesthetic effects related to historic resources. The IS/MND is deficient due to this 
omission. 
The building will represent a new significant source of light at night and glare that will affect 
nearby residents. Please provide mitigation to protect adjacent residents.  
AIR QUALITY 
The air quality analysis is flawed because the number of office is undercounted. 300 square feet 
per employee results in an underestimate of the number of employees, and therefore trips and 
emission. According to Zippia, the North American average is 150 to 175 square feet and the 
technology industry uses 115 to 155 square feet. Please recalculate all impacts that use the 300 
square feet per person number. 
Condition of Approval AIR‐3.1 (D) is inadequate because it is not objective and is left to the 
discretion of the City.  
The effects on the Safari Kids pre‐school at 521 E. Fifth should be analyzed. 
BIOLOGY 
Removal of 31 trees, including 4 protected trees, is a substantial loss of nesting habitat 
downtown. 
CULTURAL RESOURCES 
p. 50 para. 2: “ Impacts to properties listed in the NRHP must be evaluated under CEQA.” 
CEQA requires analysis of impacts to historic resource beyond those listed in the NRHP. Please 
see Historical Resources (CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.5 (a)) for a more comprehensive 
definition of resources that must be addressed under CEQA.

--- page 259 ---
Hietter Comments on 435 E. 3rd Ave. IS/MND 
3 
10.27.22 
 
(4) The fact that a resource is not listed in, or determined eligible for listing in the 
California Register of Historical Resources, not included in a local register of historical 
resources (pursuant to Section 5020.1(k) of the Public Resources Code), or identified in 
an historical resources survey (meeting the criteria in Section 5024.1(g) of the Public 
Resource Code) does not preclude a lead agency from determining that the resource 
may be an historical resource as defined in Public Resources Code Section 5020.1(j) or 
5024.1.  
 
p. 55, para. 3: The IS/MND even states “However, the setting of the buildings located at 273 
South Railroad Avenue (the former St. James Hotel from the 1860s) and 415 South Claremont 
Street have already been significantly changed by the surrounding development of modern 
conventional construction shown on Figure 3.1‐3.” 
The St. James Hotel (273 South Railroad Avenue) from the 1860s is one of the few remaining 
structures downtown from the original center of San Mateo, focused around 1st Ave, 3rd Ave., 
Railroad, and Main Street. Surrounding this building with modern glass boxes that do not 
respect the heritage of San Mateo is a significant impact that needs to be addressed in a revised 
IS/MND and mitigated; or, and Environmental Impact Report (EIR) must be prepared. 
The City has approved five four to seven story buildings downtown near the proposed project, 
which will diminish the historic context of 273 South Railroad, 415 South Claremont Street, and 
the downtown historic district. This project may be individually not a significant effect but 
contributes to a cumulative significant impact. No mitigation is proposed so an EIR must be 
prepared. 
p. 55 
“As described under Section 4.5.1.2 Existing Conditions, while no prehistoric‐ or historic‐era 
sites or resources have been documented within 1,000 feet of the project site, the project site is 
located within a medium sensitivity zone for archaeological resources.” 
Please revise the statement to reflect the National Register of Historic Places‐eligible building at 
273 Railroad Avenue and the building of local significance at 415 South Claremont. Please 
address the effects on the context of the historic buildings.  
NOISE AND VIBRATION 
Will vibration from construction of the proposed project, combined with construction of Block 
20 and 21, and 180 E. 3rd? have an adverse effect on the historic building?  
The Public Services section states that the project would add 13 residents and 111 new 
employees in the office space. Footnote 99 states: “Office uses typically generate one employee 
per 300 square feet of office space. 33,529 square feet of office space divided by 300 square feet 
equals 111 employees.” The citation for the source is not provided.

--- page 260 ---
Hietter Comments on 435 E. 3rd Ave. IS/MND 
4 
10.27.22 
 
The number of employees is substantially underestimated because 300 square feet per person is 
on the high end of the space per person, which ranges from 100 to 400 square feet per person. 
According to Zippia, the North American average is 150 to 175 square feet and the technology 
industry uses 115 to 155 square feet. Please recalculate all impacts that use the 300 square feet 
per person number. 
PUBLIC SERVICES 
p. 149; Condition of Approval PS‐4.1: The City is already in a park/open space deficit. Allowing 
an in‐lieu fee will only exacerbate the problem, which is a cumulative significant effect in the 
City. 
The acreage of parkland is currently below the goal established in the City’s General Plan of 6.0 
acres per 1,000 residents. This project is adding to a cumulative impact by adding residents 
without adding adequate park space.  
p. 152: “The proposed project includes private amenities for future employees and residents of 
the proposed project.” The private amenities are not addressed in Impact REC‐1. 
TRAFFIC  
Where will the in‐lieu fees create parking? The Main Parking Garage is committed to previous 
projects and cannot accommodate another project’s parking.  
The building does not have a loading zone, which may cause significant traffic delays during 
the train crossings multiple times per hour. 
p. 154, Table 4.17‐1: Summary of Existing and Project Trips: The table undercounts trips because 
the number of employees is undercounted. The authors use 300 square feet per person, which is 
on the high end of the range, which results in undercounting employees. At 150 square feet per 
person (more common now) the number of employees would be 224 employees. Please 
recalculate the effects to better reflect a more likely impact.

--- page 261 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
l watanuki 
Sent:
Thursday, October 27, 2022 6:17 PM
To:
Rendell Bustos
Cc:
; Michael Weinhauer; Manira Sandhir
Subject:
Re: 435 E 3rd Avenue - Comments for IS/NMD
Rendell, thanks for your note.  Laurie 
 
 
On Oct 27, 2022, at 6:01 PM, Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
 
Hi Laurie, 
  
Your comments are received. I will be reviewing this internally with other staff and our environmental 
consultant and expect to provide a response next week. Let me know if you have any immediate 
questions. 
  
‐Rendell 
  
<image002.png>Rendell Bustos 
Senior Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403 
650‐522‐7211 |rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org 
<image003.png>  <image004.png> <image005.png> <image006.png> <image007.png> 
  
From: l watanuki 
  
Sent: Thursday, October 27, 2022 4:20 PM 
To: Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: 
 Michael Weinhauer 
 
Subject: 435 E 3rd Avenue ‐ Comments for IS/NMD 
  
  
     Dear Mr. Bustos, 
 
These are comments for the 435 E 3rd Avenue IS/NMD: 
 
1.      We need an extension of time for the comments for the IS/NMD.  20 days is not 
adequate to review all this technical information. 
 
2.      The architecture is still very modern and the interior lighting at night from this 
office building may impact the surrounding residential developments.  There is also an 
older single family home next door 50 feet away to the north.  The building design 
needs to blend better with the historic building at 273 Railroad Avenue, and the 
Takahashi family home.  The building could be stepped back at the second level and 
the mass can be reduced so it fits into the smaller footprint.

--- page 262 ---
2
3.      There is only 1 BMR within the 5 units and the major portion is more office space 
which further exacerbates the jobs/housing imbalance.  We have maxed out on office 
space in the Downtown and we need to address the RHNA numbers.   
 
4.      The number of employees is undercounted since 300 sf per employee was 
used.  This comes to 111 employees according to the IS/NMD.   A more realistic 
number is 150 sf per employees which comes to 224 employees which is double the 
number.  This impacts the analysis of the IS/NMD in various categories such as the 
number of trips, parking needs, park / open space need to be re‐calculated.   
 
5.       We need a revised IS/NMD or an EIR to address the mitigation deficiencies in this 
report.  
 
AESTHETICS: 
 
1.      The architecture is still very contemporary and the interior lighting at night from 
this office building may impact the surrounding residential developments if you look at 
the renderings.  There is also an older single family home next door 50 feet away to the 
north.  The building design needs to blend better with the historic building at 273 
Railroad Avenue, the Takahashi family home, and the Downtown Historic District. The 
building could be stepped back at the second level and the mass can be reduced so it 
fits into the smaller footprint.  The other surrounding glass buildings have had 
significant impacts on the few historic buildings we have left on the east side of San 
Mateo and our older neighborhoods. These aesthetic impacts need to be addressed 
since each new modern glass building design has a cumulative affect and diminishes 
the value of our Downtown Historic District and our older neighborhoods on the east 
and west side.   
 
AIR QUALITY‐  
 
 
 
1.       There are multiple projects: Block 21, Block 20, 222 Fremont Terrace, 200 
Fremont, 441‐ 445 South B Street (Tomatina / Talbots), 222 E. 4TH (Draegers),180 E 3rd 
(Aaron Bros) which may contribute to the toxic environment of the surrounding 
area.  These projects along with 480 Kiku Crossing, 400 E 5th Kiku Crossing garage, 477‐ 
9th Avenue need to be included depending where they are in construction.  
 
2.      There is a preschool Safari Kids ‐ which was not included in the Figure 01 map. 
They have an outdoor recreation area.  
 
HISTORIC RESOURCE‐ 
 
NOISE AND VIBRATION ASSESSMENT‐ 
 
1.      The interior noise standard is 45 db, and the exterior noise standard is 60 db with 
67 max. The  interior noise is rated at 58 db and the exterior noise level is rated at 73 
db. Both will exceed standards.  Also HSR with the elevation of the tracks to 2 stories 
will bring more noise impacts. How will you address these noise issues?   
 
2.      Do the noise impacts include the differences in the calculation on the number of 
trips? Or the future noise impacts from traffic from 303 Baldwin (Trags), 480 E 4th (Kiku

--- page 263 ---
3
Crossing), 450 E 5th (Kiku Crossing Garage ‐ 700 cars), Block 21, 180 W. 3rd (Aaron 
Bros), 1 Hayward, 616 S B Street (Taps), 477 ‐ 9th Avenue/Claremont, 222 ‐ 4th Avenue 
(Draegers), 445 S B Street (Talbots), 500 ‐ 4th Avenue Block 20, and 31‐57 S B Street 
(Donut Delite), 222 Fremont, 200 Fremont. 
 
3.      Construction noise impacts ‐ There will be temporary noise impacts from 74 to 85 
db. This can exceed 90 db and can have significant impacts.  We would like to see other 
construction noise impacts be included in this analysis if all this construction is going on 
concurrently in the Downtown?  
 
4.      Heat pump noise ‐ There will be 5 heat pump on the roof which generate 69 db 
day and the night.  The worse case is 75 db. The noise limit is 73 db. How do you plan 
to remediate this noise from a 3 ft distance?   
 
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ASSESSMENT ‐  
 
1.      There is no loading zone in the project on S Claremont for the Office use or 3rd 
Avenue for residential use.  How will you address this?  
 
2.      The traffic generated from this project will add to the railway crossings delays and 
this has not been calculated into the impacts for 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, S Claremont, S 
Delaware on the east side and B Street, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th in the Downtown.  We would 
like these traffic delay impacts included in the analysis.  
 
3.      Will Windy Hill widen the sidewalks on S Claremont for pedestrian safety as 
recommended in the Pedestrian Master Plan?  There is a conflict between the building 
standards and widening the sidewalk.  Will Windy Hill address this conflict with 
modifications to the building so the sidewalk width can be safer for the pedestrians?   
 
4.      Will Windy Hill provide traffic calming on S Claremont and 5th Ave to reduce the 
cut‐through traffic generated from this project to the Transit Center.  We need to avoid 
more cut‐through traffic on 5th Avenue since this is a Bike Boulevard.   We need to 
make 5th Avenue safer for the bicyclists and pedestrians and avoid the 5th Avenue 
route.  Trip numbers are underestimated in this project.  
 
5.      The trip numbers need to be re‐adjusted since they are too conservative and 
underestimated.  
 
PARKING DEMAND STUDY 
 
1.      There are parking concerns with this project because the trip calculation numbers 
have been underestimated.  This parking number has to be recalculated.  The Kiku 
Crossing Garage and the Main Street Garage has been mentioned for parking for this 
project.  Both garages have been allocated for other projects and the Main Street 
Garage is closed from 2 am to 5 pm.   
  
                Laurie Watanuki 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with 
any attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to 
which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and 
prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are

--- page 264 ---
4
hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any 
attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, 
please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail 
and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. 
Thank you.

--- page 265 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Rendell Bustos
Sent:
Monday, October 31, 2022 8:05 AM
To:
Daniel Shefer
Cc:
 Manira Sandhir
Subject:
RE: Comments on PA21-081-435-East-3rd-Avenue-Mixed-Use-Project-IS-MND
Good morning Daniel, 
 
Your comments and questions are received. I will review this internally with staff and our environmental consultant. I 
should be able to provide a response within a week.  
 
Thanks, 
Rendell 
 
Rendell Bustos 
Senior Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650‐522‐7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org  
  
 
 
 
 
 
From: Daniel Shefer 
  
Sent: Thursday, October 27, 2022 10:37 PM 
To: Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: 
 
Subject: Comments on PA21‐081‐435‐East‐3rd‐Avenue‐Mixed‐Use‐Project‐IS‐MND 
 
Reddell, 
 
I'm CC'ing Lisa Nash and Robert Newsom hoping that as future City Council members, they take note and 
address these issues with the Planning Division. 
 
Before getting to my comments, I'd appreciate it if you could advise as to why I have not been 
provided notification re theis project despite living downtown (217 8th Ave)? 
 
Specifically re this project -  
1. Residential vs office space 
The City of San Mateo needs more residential units, not more office space. 
2. Aesthetics 
Why are we getting yet another building that looks like it came straight out of Minecraft? 
This is yet another cookie cutter glass and brick building. The design lacks any kind of 
imagination or design talent. Is this the best the architect can do? Really? 
3. Parking 
Why are we allowing the developer to rely on public parking? They're assuming that the 
parking lot on 360 Main has 70 extra, unoccupied parking spots just waiting for the 
employees and residents of this building. Why would the city allow them to "dump"

--- page 266 ---
2
they're parking needs on the public in exchange for a ransom? No amount of money can 
create more parking spots out of thin air. These need to be built. 
4. Number of Employees 
The project assumes 111 employees (Table 4.8‐1) based on 33,529 square feet of office 
space divided by 300 square per employee. A more realistic number is in the range of 150 
- 200 square feet per employee. Assuming the more generous number, that gives 55 
more employees. 55 employees that are unaccounted for with regards to resources in 
general and specifically parking. Does the main parking lot referenced in the report (see 
previous comment) really have that many unused spaces?  
I appreciate that the City's lack of a planning code precludes it from forcing any kind of 
aesthetics on developments. Further, I don't know if there is any ratio of residential vs office 
space that can be enforced. However, please be advised that if the Planning Division does not 
address concerns 3 and 4 above, I reserve the right to take legal action against the City of San 
Mateo.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
Daniel Shefer

--- page 267 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
William Tatomer 
Sent:
Wednesday, September 29, 2021 6:04 PM
To:
Rendell Bustos
Subject:
PA 2021-021
Hi 
I’m distressed to so yet more building with no parking. So more will get into residential areas to park. 
 When will gridlock be a consideration? 
This just seems wrong 
Thanks 
Bill Tatomer  
Sent from my iPhone

--- page 268 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Jonathan Chun 
Sent:
Saturday, October 2, 2021 9:11 AM
To:
Rendell Bustos
Subject:
Neighborhood Meeting PA 2021-021
Dear Planning Commission, 
 
I’ve expressed this before but the ratio of housing to office space in San Mateo is too low. This project simply does not 
make sense with the current low demand relative to availability of office space compared to high demand and low 
availability of residences.  Furthermore with no parking this building is sure to increase day time congestion and make 
parking even more difficult. I do not support this project as it is currently proposed.  I propose it that they at least triple 
the number of housing units by building six stories with three devoted to housing and three to office space. I would also 
propose they have underground parking to support the office workers and people living there. 
 
 
Jonathan Chun

--- page 269 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Kline Ashley 
Sent:
Monday, October 4, 2021 1:37 PM
To:
Rendell Bustos; 
Subject:
PA-2021-021 / 435 East 3rd Ave
Attachments:
image001.wmz
Hi Rendell and Mike –  
 
I received the notice about the above‐referenced property at my place of business, which is within a couple of blocks of 
the proposed development.  I am writing in my capacity as the GM of Dompe US, which is a biotech/pharmaceutical 
company located in downtown San Mateo, where we have about 8k sqft of commercial office space and about 20 
employees, most of whom have been working from home since the beginning of the COVID‐19 pandemic.  I am also a 
Burlingame resident and live about 10 minutes from the proposed site.  I frequently shop and eat in downtown San 
Mateo. 
 
Downtown San Mateo is a very desirable location for commercial offices.  The large number of walkable coffee shops 
and restaurants add a lot to the employee experience, and the warmer weather helps with recruiting when spaces are 
compared to more traditional offices spaces, e.g. South San Francisco or the San Bruno office park where YouTube has 
offices.  The proximity to the CalTrain express stop has also been helpful for us in our recruiting efforts.   
 
I would like to ask the Developer to reconsider the lack of parking in the project, and the City to strongly consider 
rejecting the project unless it can be reworked to include underground parking.  Parking downtown has become more 
challenging with the closure of B Street to provide a pedestrian arcade.  Furthermore, employees do not want to come 
into the office because they have grown accustomed to working from home since the beginning of the pandemic.  When 
they do come in, they want the commute and overall experience of getting to work on the 1‐3 days/week that they 
come in to be as frictionless as possible.  Taking public transit (CalTrain) makes an already undesirable commute 
completely untenable for many people.  Personally at our office, we are finding that employees are opposed to working 
live from the office unless the company provides parking in our building garage, where we have access to a limited 
number of spaces that were allocated based on our square footage in the building. 
 
I have also looked at numerous other commercial spaces in the area, and almost all of the space, even in older buildings, 
has on‐site parking available for employees.  While traffic is a nightmare, and I wish everyone could take public transit, 
we live in a reality where commuting from many Bay Area locations into downtown San Mateo is not efficient using 
CalTrain.  Even from San Francisco, the trip via CalTrain is terrible from many neighborhoods. 
 
Both for business reasons to add to the marketability of the space (commercial and residential), and for the health of the 
downtown San Mateo business district, this project should not be allowed to move forward unless it can provide a way 
for the people who live and work there to park their vehicles.  Using existing street parking and garages for this new 
development would strain an already precious resource. 
 
Apologies that I am unable to attend the Neighborhood Meeting later this week.   
 
Ashley 
 
Ashley Kline 
General Manager, Country Head — Dompé U.S., Inc. 
Head, Global Biotech Business Unit – Dompe Farmaceutici S.p.A.

--- page 270 ---
D Dompé
www.dompe.com

i Piease consider the environment before printing

Confidentiality Notice: This message is private and confidential and may contain confidential, proprietary
or legally privileged information. If you have received this message in error or you are not the intended
recipient, please notify us immediately and delete and remove the e-mail and any attachments from your
system. Any unauthorized use or disclosure of the contents of this message or any attachments is not
permitted and may be unlawful.


--- page 271 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
DA 
Sent:
Thursday, October 7, 2021 11:09 AM
To:
Rendell Bustos
Subject:
Tonight’s neighborhood meeting
Hi Rendell, 
I’m hoping to join the meeting tonight but not sure with zoom how that works. I want to comment to you and you may 
pass it on at the meeting and show what I mean. As always please state that I’m not against the project but would like to 
see the design more in keeping with the standards reflecting San Mateo’s history. My feeling has always been that all 
the new buildings have the same architecture especially in one location. Please see two examples that would lend itself 
better giving the cityscape the diversity we are looking for. Hope to see you tonight. 
Thank you  
Dino

--- page 272 ---
9:35 AM Thu Oct 7

819 HAMILTON ST

—— a ae

Tee ot



--- page 273 ---
9:36 AM Thu Oct 7

Current Projects » bevelopment Projects

6071 MARSHALL ST



--- page 274 ---
4

--- page 275 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
George California 
Sent:
Thursday, October 7, 2021 3:41 PM
To:
Rendell Bustos
Subject:
PA-2021-021, 435 E 3rd Ave .. pre-App
Any project within the Downtown/Central district that does not propose on‐site parking should be a non‐starter.  Very 
much opposed to this plan.   
__________________________ 
George Derby

--- page 276 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
George California 
Sent:
Thursday, October 7, 2021 4:02 PM
To:
Rendell Bustos
Subject:
Re: PA-2021-021, 435 E 3rd Ave .. pre-App
Setback seems inadequate for a future very high pedestrian traffic area.   
Need more benches on the sidewalk around the building.   
Where are the architecturally compatible trash cans?  Should be at least three (3) around the building. 
 
In terms of sidewalk space, have you considered street lighting attached to the building instead of sidewalk posts?   
__________________________ 
George Derby

--- page 277 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
George California 
Sent:
Thursday, October 7, 2021 5:29 PM
To:
Rendell Bustos
Subject:
Re: PA-2021-021, 435 E 3rd Ave .. pre-App
Is this project just a scaled down version of the building that went up on 4th Avenue between Railroad and Claremont?  
 
__________________________ 
George Derby

--- page 278 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
                                                              
 
Memorandum 
TO: Planning Application File Number PA-2021-081 
CC: Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager 
FROM: Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner 
DATE: February 2, 2023 
RE:  435 E. 3rd Ave. (PA-2021-081) – Response to IS/MND Comments 
 
This memo is prepared in response to public comments provided by Laurie Hietter, Laurie Watanuki, 
and Daniel Shefer on October 27, 2022 regarding the 435 E. 3rd Avenue Initial Study and Mitigated 
Negative Declaration (IS/MND) circulated between October 7, 2022 to October 27, 2022. Questions 
from different commentors that raised the same concerns were combined in lieu of providing 
duplicative responses. Responses were prepared with input from the Planning Division, Public Works, 
and the City’s environmental consultant for this project, David J. Powers & Associates. 
 
1. The IS/MND uses best‐case or inappropriate assumptions for many analyses, making the 
IS/MND inadequate. These analyses should be redone and the IS/MND recirculated. 
 
The comment does not identify specific instances in which a “bast case” or “inappropriate” 
assumption was used. Therefore, no further response is required. 
 
2. 20 days is not adequate for citizens to review and digest the over 500 pages of IS/MND and 
technical reports. Please extend the comment period. 
 
Unless review by a State agency is required, a 20-day review period is allowed under CEQA. A 20-
day public review period is standard and was used for this project as it does not involve a State 
responsible or trustee agency. In addition, since the public hearing was pushed to January or 
later, at the applicants’ request, additional time was available for general public review and 
comment on the project, including on the environmental analysis.  
 
3. There are many complicated mitigation measures. The Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting 
(MMRP) Plan should be provided with the IS/MND to ensure there will be adequate monitoring 
and reporting. 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
                                            330 West 20th Avenue 
 
                                             San Mateo, CA 94403 
                               www.cityofsanmateo.org

--- page 279 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
 
All mitigation measures within the IS/MND are incorporated as Conditions of Approval. The 
MMRP will also be incorporated into the draft Resolution for Planning Commission consideration 
and will be available for review with the agenda report. 
 
4. There is only 1 BMR within the 5 units and the major portion is more office space which further 
exacerbates the jobs/housing imbalance.  We have maxed out on office space in the Downtown 
and we need to address the RHNA numbers.   
 
The project is not needed. There is over 700,000 sq. ft. of office space approved or planned 
downtown and San Mateo has a jobs/housing imbalance. 
 
The project will exacerbate the jobs/housing imbalance and should not be approved. 
 
The City of San Mateo needs more residential units, not more office space. 
 
These comments are not related to the project’s environmental effects. Provision of one BMR 
unit with a total of five units (20%) is permissible in the City’s BMR Inclusionary Program. In 
addition, the City’s General Plan or Downtown Area Plan does not identify a cap on office 
development or require addressing jobs and housing issues at the project level. The City has to 
conduct environmental review for the project that is proposed by the applicant.  
 
5. The architecture is still very modern and the interior lighting at night from this office building 
may impact the surrounding residential developments.  There is also an older single family 
home next door 50 feet away to the north.  The building design needs to blend better with the 
historic building at 273 Railroad Avenue, and the Takahashi family home.  The building could be 
stepped back at the second level and the mass can be reduced so it fits into the smaller 
footprint.   
 
The project underwent design review with City staff and the Planning Commission at a November 
2021 Study Session. Revisions by the architect were made during the project review and after the 
Study Session, including revisions to the exterior lighting design. Further, as noted in the 
Aesthetics section of the IS/MND, the aesthetics impacts of certain infill projects near transit, 
such as the subject project, are deemed less than significant by statute (i.e. SB 743). Lastly, the 
project’s impacts on the historic significance of 273 South Railroad Avenue were analyzed and 
discussed in Section 4.5 of the IS/MND, and found to be less than significant. 
 
6. The Logistics Plan and Traffic Control Plan should be analyzed as part of the project. The traffic 
management during construction is very important because of the traffic backups from the 
Caltrain at‐grade crossing delays. The IS/MND is deficient due to this omission. 
 
The City typically receives and reviews the Logistics and Traffic Control Plan in the building permit 
phase that would account for features such as the Caltrain at-grade crossing. This project is 
consistent with recent developments in the area and there are no project or setting elements 
that suggest there would be an impact associated with the Logistics and Traffic Control Plan. As 
noted in section 4.9.2 of the IS/MND, no roadways would be blocked such that emergency 
vehicle access would be blocked during construction. Further, the Logistics and Traffic Control 
Plan , which would be reviewed by the City's traffic engineers, would ensure the roadway

--- page 280 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
network is not significantly affected. Lastly, Appendix I concludes that the project will not result 
in level of service (LOS) impacts at any of the study-intersections, including E. 3rd Ave./S. Railroad 
Ave. immediately east of the Caltrain crossing. 
 
7. The number of employees is undercounted because 300 square feet per employee is used in 
impact analysis calculations. A more realistic and conservative number is 150 square feet per 
employee. This more realistic allocation would result in 224 employees, which is more than 
double what is analyzed in the IS/MND. The air quality, noise, traffic, and public services 
sections must be reanalyzed using the more realistic, or a worst‐case scenario (100 square feet 
per employee). The IS/MND is deficient because it is based on an inaccurate assumption with 
no reference. 
 
The jobs per 1,000 sq. ft. number used for the project is consistent with what was used in the 
City’s General Plan. While the project may be occupied by a variety of uses and tenants over the 
project's economic lifespan, some with higher and some with lower occupancy per sq. ft., the 
employee ratio used in the IS/MND is considered to be reflective of typical office use occupancy, 
and has been used by the City since adoption of the General Plan. The analysis in the IS/MND is 
based on the building square footage and not an assumed employee count, given the employee 
count is expected to fluctuate over the course of building’s economic lifespan. The analysis takes 
into account the number of trips, the emissions generated, the electricity used, the water 
consumed, etc. based on established rates per square foot for an office use. 
 
Further, the number of employees was based off of 33,529 square feet, which was the combined 
square footage of all office levels and did not exclude areas that would not contribute to 
employee generation (i.e., bathrooms, stairwells, mechanical equipment, etc.). Therefore, the 
number of employees may actually be less than what was estimated in the IS/MND.  
 
8. The proposed project would result in a cumulative significant impact on the nearby and 
downtown historic resources. An EIR should be prepared to address the significant cumulative 
impacts on the downtown context. 
 
The comment provides no substantial evidence for the statement that the project would 
contribute to or result in a cumulative impact to historic resources. As described in the IS/MND, 
the site does not contain historic resources and the nearest historic resources are located at 273 
South Railroad Avenue (located on the parcel southwest and adjacent to the project site) and at 
415 South Claremont Street (located approximately 600 feet southeast of the project site). The 
project would not directly affect either of these nearby historic resources, and would only 
indirectly contribute to alteration of their existing setting, which has already been substantially 
altered by prior developments.  
 
Additionally, the IS/MND discloses that the Downtown Historic District is located 330 feet 
southwest of the project site. The project does not propose to alter or remove any buildings 
located within or adjacent to the Downtown Historic District. Views between the project site and 
Downtown Historic District are partially or completely obscured due to intervening development, 
much of which is of modern, conventional design. Therefore, the project would not have a 
substantial direct or indirect adverse effect on the setting or context of the Downtown Historic 
District. The IS/MND concluded that the project would not have a cumulatively significant impact 
on cultural resources, since it would only affect the setting of any historic resources in the

--- page 281 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
cumulative area of effect, which has already been compromised by the vast amount of modern 
conventional development in the area. The site is already developed with non-historic buildings 
and the baseline would be fundamentally unchanged under project conditions. Refer to the 
discussion in Section 4.5 under Impact CUL-1. An EIR is not required for this project since it would 
not result in any significant historic impacts after mitigation, nor would it have a cumulatively 
considerable contribution to a significant cumulative impact, as demonstrated by the historic 
report prepared for the project.  
 
9. The proposed project will cause a significant cumulative impact on traffic, shade, and wind in 
the downtown area. 
 
The project’s traffic impacts are fully evaluated in the IS/MND based on a Transportation Impact 
Analysis (TIA, refer to Appendix I) prepared according to the guidelines and requirements of the 
City, the congestion management agency (San Mateo County C/CAG), and CEQA, and the 
transportation analysis, based on VMT, does not indicate that the project would contribute to 
cumulative traffic impacts. Effects on shade are not considered impacts under CEQA unless the 
shading caused by a project would affect biological resources (e.g. excessively shading habitat), 
cultural resources (e.g. shading stained glass windows in an historic church), or energy production 
(e.g. shading on solar panels). While substantially tall buildings can cause the acceleration of wind 
at or near ground level, the City has no thresholds pertaining to wind and the project, at 55 feet 
in height, is anticipated to have no discernable effect on wind. 
 
 
10. The project will add to the cumulative lack of adequate parkland. 
 
The project's impact on parks and recreational facilities was evaluated in Sections 4.15 and 4.16 
of the IS/MND, and found to be less than significant. The project would not remove any parkland, 
and the project would pay in-lieu fees established in the Municipal Code, consistent with the 
Quimby Act, which would be used to improve park and recreational facilities. Further, the 
project's service population, which is predominantly office employees with a smaller residential 
component of five units, was not projected to substantially increase the use of park and 
recreational facilities.  
 
11. Please specify if the conditions of approval are considered mitigation measures that will 
mitigate impacts to less than significant levels. 
 
The Conditions of Approval reflect federal, state, and local laws, regulations, standard conditions, 
etc. that would be applicable to the project and are considered part of any approval action on the 
project. Collectively, these Conditions ensure consistency with state and local requirements and 
further serve to avoid, reduce, or compensate for identified project impacts so that project 
impacts are less than significant. Additionally, the draft mitigation measures proposed in the 
IS/MND for circumstances where standard Conditions of Approval do not exist to address a 
particular issue, will themselves become conditions of approval, should the project be approved. 
 
12. The cumulative noise and vibration analysis did not consider all buildings that may be 
constructed at the same time, such as 180 E. 3rd Ave. and Draeger’s, which could be under 
construction at the same time as the proposed project. The grade separations could also be 
constructed in a similar timeframe. The analysis should not be best case but should be redone.

--- page 282 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
 
Construction noise reduces substantially beyond 500 feet, and neither 180 E. 3rd Ave nor the 
Draeger’s project at 222 E. 4th Ave are within 500 feet of the project at 435 E. 3rd Ave. 
Construction of all future projects at the exact same time is a worst-case scenario and is not 
expected. Vibration impacts are not additive unless multiple pieces of equipment are operating 
simultaneously within a few feet of each other. Therefore, combined construction noise and 
vibration issues are not expected, given the other sites noted in the comment are beyond 500 
feet of the project site, which is where the localized construction noise and vibration impacts of 
the project would be experienced.  
 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
 
13. The description of parking references the Kiku Crossing City garage. The parking for that 
building has already been committed to the projects at 3rd and El Camino Real (which have no 
parking) and Kiku Crossing (Kiku and the garage removed surface parking). 
 
The in‐lieu parking fee is essentially deferred mitigation because addition parking will need to 
be constructed. The IS/MND is inadequate. 
 
Why are we allowing the developer to rely on public parking? They're assuming that the 
parking lot on 360 Main has 70 extra, unoccupied parking spots just waiting for the employees 
and residents of this building. Why would the city allow them to "dump" they're parking needs 
on the public in exchange for a ransom? No amount of money can create more parking spots 
out of thin air. These need to be built. 
 
Parking is not an impact under CEQA (i.e. parking stalls are not environmental resources), 
therefore it is not analyzed as an environmental resource issue under CEQA.  In addition, AB 2097 
became effective in January of 2023 and prohibits the City from imposing parking requirements, 
or collecting a parking in-lieu fee for projects near transit stations. Parking district in-lieu fees 
collected by the City over the years, including from the 3rd/El Camino projects went toward the 
creation of new public parking spaces, including the Fifth Avenue/Kiku Crossing Parking Garage. 
The public parking spaces at this garage are not allocated, specifically to this project. However, 
the project includes Transportation Demand Management measures that encourage transit use, 
walkability, and biking that collectively would result in 26.5% trip reductions. There is also 
sufficient capacity for any remaining vehicular trips and resulting parking needs to be 
accommodated within long-term public parking. 
 
AESTHETICS 
 
14. The IS/MND authors have misinterpreted the requirement in SB 743 to consider the aesthetic 
effects of a project on historic resources. Aesthetic effects of a project are exempt except for 
the analysis of aesthetic effects related to historic resources. The IS/MND is deficient due to 
this omission. 
 
As noted on page 21 of the IS/MND in the Aesthetic analysis, the IS/MND is consistent with Public 
Resources Code section 21099(d)(2)(B). Separately, the project’s impacts on historic resources 
were analyzed and discussed in Section 4.5 of the IS/MND, and found to be less than significant.

--- page 283 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
15. The architecture is still very contemporary and the interior lighting at night from this office 
building may impact the surrounding residential developments if you look at the renderings.  
There is also an older single family home next door 50 feet away to the north.  The building 
design needs to blend better with the historic building at 273 Railroad Avenue, the Takahashi 
family home, and the Downtown Historic District. The building could be stepped back at the 
second level and the mass can be reduced so it fits into the smaller footprint.  The other 
surrounding glass buildings have had significant impacts on the few historic buildings we have 
left on the east side of San Mateo and our older neighborhoods. These aesthetic impacts need 
to be addressed since each new modern glass building design has a cumulative affect and 
diminishes the value of our Downtown Historic District and our older neighborhoods on the 
east and west side.   
 
As documented in Section 4.1 of the Initial Study, since the project is a mixed-use residential 
project located on an infill development site within a transit priority area, the project's impacts 
on aesthetics are considered less than significant pursuant to SB 743. The analysis on pages 54-55 
of the Initial Study evaluated the project's impact on the nearby historic resources and 
Downtown Historic District and found that the project in conjunction with the surrounding 
development would have a less than significant effect on these resources. The setting of these 
resources has already been altered by past modern conventional development without affecting 
these resources' historic significance or eligibility for listing. Further, the project would replace an 
existing development that does not contribute to the historic setting of these resources. 
 
AIR QUALITY 
 
16. The air quality analysis is flawed because the number of office is undercounted. 300 square feet 
per employee results in an underestimate of the number of employees, and therefore trips and 
emission. According to Zippia, the North American average is 150 to 175 square feet and the 
technology industry uses 115 to 155 square feet. Please recalculate all impacts that use the 300 
square feet per person number. 
 
Please see the response provided in question #7. 
 
17. Condition of Approval AIR‐3.1 (D) is inadequate because it is not objective and is left to the 
discretion of the City. 
 
This Condition of Approval requires that construction grading activity shall be discontinued in 
wind conditions that in the opinion of the Public Works Construction Inspector cause excessive 
neighborhood dust problems. The judgment of the PW inspector can be considered an expert 
opinion, and a qualitative judgment is appropriate for a situation such as this when the City does 
not have a quantitative standard for excessive wind that warrants suspension of construction 
activity.  
 
18. The effects on the Safari Kids pre‐school at 521 E. Fifth should be analyzed. 
 
Although not explicitly mentioned in the Air Quality (AQ) IS/MND section, the Air Quality and 
Health Risk Assessment (Appendix A of the IS/MND) analyzed the health risk impacts of the 
project at this specific receptor, namely “Off-Site Daycare Child” in Tables 3, 4 and 14 of Appendix 
A, and concluded the project would not have a significant effect on these receptors. Further,

--- page 284 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
since the aforementioned analysis did not factor in the effect of the building envelope on 
reducing exposure to toxic air contaminants, the analysis is extremely conservative and inclusive 
of any time the associated sensitive receptors (i.e., children and teachers) may spend in the 
outdoor recreational area. As such, the project's effect on these receptors was analyzed and 
found to be less than significant. 
 
19. There are multiple projects: Block 21, Block 20, 222 Fremont Terrace, 200 Fremont, 441- 445 
South B Street (Tomatina / Talbots), 222 E. 4TH (Draegers),180 E 3rd (Aaron Bros) which may 
contribute to the toxic environment of the surrounding area.  These projects along with 480 
Kiku Crossing, 400 E 5th Kiku Crossing garage, 477- 9th Avenue need to be included depending 
where they are in construction.  
 
In accordance with Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) guidance, the analysis of 
the project’s cumulative community health risk impacts factored in 1) emissions generated during 
project construction and operational; 2) roadways with over 10,000 daily trips; and 3) existing 
and future stationary sources of TACs (i.e., generators, including Block 21’s). Of the projects 
mentioned by this comment, Block 21 and Draeger’s have been approved. 180 E. 3rd Avenue was 
approved in 2019 as well; however, this project is actively in construction and overlap in 
construction with 435 E. 3rd Ave. would likely occur toward the end of 180 E. 3rd Ave. 
construction when construction emissions are the lowest. 
 
While there may be some overlap in the construction of the 435 E. 3rd Ave., Block 21, and 
Draeger’s projects, it would be speculative to assume that construction of all three projects 
would occur simultaneously. Further, these projects do not share a maximally exposed individual. 
However, even under an impossible scenario where the maximally exposed individual for 435 E. 
3rd Ave. would be subjected to the maximum estimated amount of construction period 
emissions generated by Block 21 and Draeger’s, the cumulative cancer risk, chronic health index 
(HI), and annual PM2.5 exposure would be 90 cases per million, an HI of 0.1, and an annual 
PM2.5 exposure of 0.36 μg/m3, which would not exceed BAAQMD’s cumulative thresholds of 100 
cases per million, an HI greater than 10, and an annual PM2.5 exposure greater than 0.8 PM2.5 
μg/m3. Future projects would be subject to project-specific analyses of their individual and 
cumulative air quality impacts and would be required to mitigate their individual and cumulative 
impacts to the maximum extent feasible. 
 
BIOLOGY 
 
20. Removal of 31 trees, including 4 protected trees, is a substantial loss of nesting habitat 
downtown. 
 
The project's potential impact on nesting birds was analyzed in Section 4.4 and found to be less 
than significant with implementation of mitigation measures, MM BIO-1.1 and BIO-1.2, that 
require nesting bird survey and protections prior to commencement of construction. The project 
would also plant five replacement trees and pay in-lieu fees which would contribute to planting 
of replacement trees throughout the City. The project is consistent with City policies governing 
existing landscaping. 
 
CULTURAL RESOURCES

--- page 285 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
21. “ Impacts to properties listed in the NRHP must be evaluated under CEQA.” CEQA requires 
analysis of impacts to historic resource beyond those listed in the NRHP. Please see Historical 
Resources (CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.5 (a)) for a more comprehensive definition of 
resources that must be addressed under CEQA. 
 
(4) The fact that a resource is not listed in, or determined eligible for listing in the California 
Register of Historical Resources, not included in a local register of historical resources (pursuant 
to Section 5020.1(k) of the Public Resources Code), or identified in an historical resources 
survey (meeting the criteria in Section 5024.1(g) of the Public Resource Code) does not 
preclude a lead agency from determining that the resource may be an historical resource as 
defined in Public Resources Code Section 5020.1(j) or 5024.1. 
 
The IS/MND even states “However, the setting of the buildings located at 273 South Railroad 
Avenue (the former St. James Hotel from the 1860s) and 415 South Claremont Street have 
already been significantly changed by the surrounding development of modern conventional 
construction shown on Figure 3.1‐3.” 
 
The IS/MND did not restrict its analysis of project impacts on historic resources to those listed on 
the NRHP. For example, the analysis in Section 4.5.2 under Impact CUL-1 also considered the 
project's impact on a resource listed on the City's local register of historic resources. No CRHR-
listed resources were identified within the project's area of effect.  
 
22. The St. James Hotel (273 South Railroad Avenue) from the 1860s is one of the few remaining 
structures downtown from the original center of San Mateo, focused around 1st Ave, 3rd Ave., 
Railroad, and Main Street. Surrounding this building with modern glass boxes that do not 
respect the heritage of San Mateo is a significant impact that needs to be addressed in a 
revised IS/MND and mitigated; or, and Environmental Impact Report (EIR) must be prepared. 
 
The City has approved five four to seven story buildings downtown near the proposed project, 
which will diminish the historic context of 273 South Railroad, 415 South Claremont Street, and 
the downtown historic district. This project may be individually not a significant effect but 
contributes to a cumulative significant impact. No mitigation is proposed so an EIR must be 
prepared. 
 
The analysis on IS/MND pages 54-55 evaluated the project's impact on the adjacent and nearby 
resources identified by the commenter and found that the project in conjunction with the 
surrounding development would have a less than significant effect on these resources. The 
setting of these resources has already been compromised by past modern conventional 
development without affecting these resources' historic significance or eligibility for listing. 
Further, the project would replace an existing development that does not contribute to the 
historic setting of these resources. Therefore, there is no significant impact for the project to 
mitigate, and an EIR is not required, given substantial evidence supports the conclusion that 
impacts are less than significant. 
 
23. “As described under Section 4.5.1.2 Existing Conditions, while no prehistoric‐ or historic‐era 
sites or resources have been documented within 1,000 feet of the project site, the project site 
is located within a medium sensitivity zone for archaeological resources.”

--- page 286 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
Please revise the statement to reflect the National Register of Historic Places‐eligible building 
at 273 Railroad Avenue and the building of local significance at 415 South Claremont. Please 
address the effects on the context of the historic buildings. 
 
The comment pertains to historic resources while referencing a page number and quotation 
pertinent to archaeological resources. Under Section 4.5.1.2 Existing Conditions page 53, the 
correct quote is "...no prehistoric and/or historic era archaeological sites or resources are present 
on or within 1,000 feet of the project site." As made clear in the original quotation, this 
statement refers to archaeological sites, not historically significant buildings. The statement on 
page 55 under Section 4.5.2 Impact Discussion, Impact CUL-2 is "As described under Section 
4.5.1.2 Existing Conditions, while no prehistoric- or historic-era sites or resources have been 
documented within 1,000 feet of the project site…". Given that this statement refers back to the 
original statement regarding archaeology, and not historic resources, and is within the context of 
a discussion of the project's impact on archaeological resources, no revision to the IS/MND is 
required. 
 
NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
24. Will vibration from construction of the proposed project, combined with construction of Block 
20 and 21, and 180 E. 3rd have an adverse effect on the historic building? 
 
Vibration is not additive unless multiple pieces of equipment are operating simultaneously within 
a few feet of each other. The project-specific vibration analysis completed for each development 
considers the potential for that project to result in vibration impacts on adjacent or nearby 
historic resources, as vibration impacts are highly localized. Therefore, combined construction 
vibration issues are not expected given the distance between the sites.  
 
25. The Public Services section states that the project would add 13 residents and 111 new 
employees in the office space. Footnote 99 states: “Office uses typically generate one 
employee per 300 square feet of office space. 33,529 square feet of office space divided by 300 
square feet equals 111 employees.” The citation for the source is not provided. 
 
The number of employees is substantially underestimated because 300 square feet per person 
is on the high end of the space per person, which ranges from 100 to 400 square feet per 
person. 
 
According to Zippia, the North American average is 150 to 175 square feet and the technology 
industry uses 115 to 155 square feet. Please recalculate all impacts that use the 300 square feet 
per person number. 
 
Please see the response provided in question #7. 
 
26. The interior noise standard is 45 db, and the exterior noise standard is 60 db with 67 max. The  
interior noise is rated at 58 db and the exterior noise level is rated at 73 db. Both will exceed 
standards.  Also, HSR with the elevation of the tracks to 2 stories will bring more noise impacts. 
How will you address these noise issues?

--- page 287 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
Impacts of the existing environment on a project site's future sensitive receptors is not an impact 
under CEQA. Nonetheless, the ability of the project to comply with state mandated interior and 
exterior noise standards was evaluated in Appendix H of the Initial Study and conditions of 
approvals were identified to ensure project compliance with these standards. The noise levels 
experienced at the site are not unusual and capable of being addressed through readily available 
design and construction methods, which will be reviewed during the Building Permit stage 
through Conditions of Approval. See section 4.13.3 of the IS/MND for a more in-depth discussion 
of this topic. 
 
27. Do the noise impacts include the differences in the calculation on the number of trips? Or the 
future noise impacts from traffic from 303 Baldwin (Trags), 480 E 4th (Kiku Crossing), 450 E 5th 
(Kiku Crossing Garage - 700 cars), Block 21, 180 W. 3rd (Aaron Bros), 1 Hayward, 616 S B Street 
(Taps), 477 - 9th Avenue/Claremont, 222 - 4th Avenue (Draegers), 445 S B Street (Talbots), 500 - 
4th Avenue Block 20, and 31-57 S B Street (Donut Delite), 222 Fremont, 200 Fremont. 
 
CEQA requires cumulative analyses factor in existing environment and pending and approved 
projects; the noise analysis factored in construction of approved projects within 500 feet and 
traffic volume increases associated with nearby approved projects identified by the City's traffic 
engineers. A detailed list and description of the projects included in the cumulative analyses of 
Noise and Transportation can be found in Appendices H and I, respectively. Traffic volumes must 
double for roadway noise to increase perceptibly, and no roadway volumes would double as a 
result of approved and pending projects. The proposed project is consistent with its General Plan 
land use designation and zoning district. Therefore, the project is consistent with the type and 
intensity of development analyzed in the General Plan EIR, and Appendix H finds that traffic noise 
as a result of cumulative development within the City of San Mateo would not exceed three dBA 
and therefore would not be cumulatively considerable. 
 
28. Construction noise impacts - There will be temporary noise impacts from 74 to 85 db. This can 
exceed 90 db and can have significant impacts.  We would like to see other construction noise 
impacts be included in this analysis if all this construction is going on concurrently in the 
Downtown?  
 
With implementation of mitigation measure MM NOI-1.1, noise generated by project 
construction would not exceed the City's threshold of significance of 90 dBA at the property line. 
Further, MM NOI-1.1 includes other measures such as maximizing distance between construction 
noise and noise-sensitive receptors, and prohibiting loud equipment (such as jackhammers) 
within 35 feet of shared property lines, that would reduce construction noise by 5-10 dBA, 
further reducing the project's impact. 
 
Construction noise drops off substantially beyond 500 feet, and there are three other 
developments pending or approved within 500 feet (Block 21, 480 East 4th Avenue, and 406 East 
3rd Avenue). Construction of all future projects at the exact same time is a worst-case scenario 
and is not expected. Further, the Noise and Vibration Analysis (pages 38-39 of Appendix H) found 
that construction and operation of the project in conjunction with other nearby projects would 
not have a cumulatively considerable impact.

--- page 288 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
29. Heat pump noise - There will be 5 heat pump on the roof which generate 69 db day and the 
night.  The worse case is 75 db. The noise limit is 73 db. How do you plan to remediate this 
noise from a 3 ft distance?   
 
As discussed in section 4.13.2.1 of the Initial Study, the City's threshold of significance for 
mechanical noise (which includes noise generated by heat pumps) is 65 dBA at the property 
plane. Noise generated by the rooftop equipment would be 61 dBA at the nearest property line, 
and therefore does not need to be mitigated. 
 
PUBLIC SERVICES 
 
30. Condition of Approval PS‐4.1: The City is already in a park/open space deficit. Allowing an 
in‐lieu fee will only exacerbate the problem, which is a cumulative significant effect in the City. 
 
The acreage of parkland is currently below the goal established in the City’s General Plan of 6.0 
acres per 1,000 residents. This project is adding to a cumulative impact by adding residents 
without adding adequate park space. 
 
Pursuant to the Quimby Act (Government Code Section 66477), payment of in-lieu fees is 
considered adequate mitigation for impacts to park facilities. The project includes five units, 
which is expected to generate approximately 13 residents. As discussed in Section 4.16 of the 
IS/MND, the City of San Mateo has established standards for dedication of land or payment of in-
lieu fees for park and recreation facilities serving new residential subdivisions (Chapter 26.64 of 
the City of San Mateo Municipal Code). The code sets a standard of two acres per 1,000 residents 
to be dedicated by residential developers, with fees based on the value of real property and the 
number of residents estimated for various unit sizes. At two acres per 1,000 residents, the project 
creates the need for 0.026 acres, or about 1,132 sq. ft. of additional parkland, and it would be 
impractical for a mixed-use project to dedicate such a small amount of land, therefore, it is 
appropriate for the project to pay park in-lieu fees. As explained in the IS/MND, the additional 13 
residents would not physically degrade or deteriorate existing parks serving the site, and the in-
lieu fees would be used to expand recreational opportunities in the area. 
 
31. “The proposed project includes private amenities for future employees and residents of the 
proposed project.” The private amenities are not addressed in Impact REC‐1. 
 
The question posed by Impact REC-1 is whether the project would increase the use of existing 
public recreational facilities such that their deterioration would occur or be accelerated. The 
proposed private amenities with the building, such as open terraces, do not fall under the scope 
of that question. The impact of these private amenities is addressed under Impact REC-2 and 
throughout the entire document as part of the analysis of construction and operation of the 
proposed building, and found to be less than significant. The private amenities included in the 
project would serve to reduce the need for project residents to utilize nearby park and 
recreational facilities when the private amenities are suitable for their particular recreational 
needs. 
 
TRANSPORTATION

--- page 289 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
32. The building does not have a loading zone, which may cause significant traffic delays during the 
train crossings multiple times per hour. 
 
A project's effects on traffic delays are no longer considered an impact under CEQA. Regardless, 
as discussed in Section 4.17.2 under Impact TRN-1, the Transportation Impact Analysis (refer to 
Appendix I) found that the project would not result in any adverse effects on intersection level of 
service. 
 
Further, the City of San Mateo does not require loading spaces for this project. In general, 
projects of this size will not generate more than one loading trip at a time. As noted in Appendix I 
in the “Additional Transportation Analysis” section, there is currently an existing yellow loading 
zone directly west of the site on East 3rd Avenue that can be used for loading for both the office 
and residential uses. Garbage collection may occur within the street on South Claremont Street 
but would occur infrequently, typically during off-peak times, and on a low volume street. 
Therefore, loading activity would not substantially interfere with other roadway users. 
 
33. Table 4.17‐1: Summary of Existing and Project Trips: The table undercounts trips because the 
number of employees is undercounted. The authors use 300 square feet per person, which is 
on the high end of the range, which results in undercounting employees. At 150 square feet per 
person (more common now) the number of employees would be 224 employees. Please 
recalculate the effects to better reflect a more likely impact. 
 
Trip generation numbers, which are based on building area and are one of the foundational 
pieces of the analysis provided in the IS, are based on the Institute of Transportation Engineers 
(ITE) Trip Generation Manual 11th Edition (see Appendix I to the IS/MND). The trip generation 
numbers are based on peer-reviewed data that show office densities range between 225 and 400 
sq. ft. per employee. Different types of office occupants have varying square footage needs. The 
jobs per 1,000 sq. ft. number used for the project is consistent with what was used in the City’s 
General Plan. While the project may be occupied by a variety of uses and tenants over the 
project's economic lifespan, some with higher and some with lower occupancy per sq. ft., the 
employee ratio used in the IS is considered to be reflective of typical office use occupancy, and 
has been used by the City since adoption of the General Plan. The analysis in the IS/MND is based 
on the building square footage and not an assumed employee count, given the employee count is 
expected to fluctuate over the course of building’s economic lifespan. The analysis takes into 
account the number of trips, the emissions generated, the electricity used, the water consumed, 
etc. based on established rates per square foot for an office use. 
 
Please also see the response provided in question #7. 
 
34. The traffic generated from this project will add to the railway crossings delays and this has not 
been calculated into the impacts for 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, S Claremont, S Delaware on the east 
side and B Street, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th in the Downtown.  We would like these traffic delay 
impacts included in the analysis.  
 
A project's effects on traffic delays are no longer considered an impact under CEQA. Regardless, 
as discussed in Section 4.17.2 under Impact TRN-1, the Transportation Impact Analysis (refer to 
Appendix I) found that the project would not result in any adverse effects on intersection level of 
service.

--- page 290 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
 
35. Will Windy Hill widen the sidewalks on S Claremont for pedestrian safety as recommended in 
the Pedestrian Master Plan?  There is a conflict between the building standards and widening 
the sidewalk.  Will Windy Hill address this conflict with modifications to the building so the 
sidewalk width can be safer for the pedestrians?   
 
Sidewalk widths is not an environmental issue under CEQA. The project has been evaluated to 
substantially comply with the Pedestrian Master Plan’s sidewalk guidelines. The Zoning Code also 
allows the project to result in zero-setbacks, unless setbacks are provided for landscaping and 
open space. The applicant has provided a setback along both frontages for the provision of 
landscaping and open space. 
 
36. Will Windy Hill provide traffic calming on S Claremont and 5th Ave to reduce the cut-through 
traffic generated from this project to the Transit Center.  We need to avoid more cut-through 
traffic on 5th Avenue since this is a Bike Boulevard.   We need to make 5th Avenue safer for the 
bicyclists and pedestrians and avoid the 5th Avenue route.  Trip numbers are underestimated 
in this project.  
 
The project is not anticipated to worsen traffic conditions. The project’s traffic impacts are 
evaluated in the IS/MND based on a Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA, refer to Appendix I) 
prepared according to the guidelines and requirements of the City, the congestion management 
agency (San Mateo County C/CAG), and CEQA, and the transportation analysis, based on VMT, 
does not indicate that the project would contribute to cumulative traffic impacts. No traffic 
calming on S. Claremont Street or 5th Avenue is proposed as a part of this project.  
 
37. There are parking concerns with this project because the trip calculation numbers have been 
underestimated.  This parking number has to be recalculated.  The Kiku Crossing Garage and 
the Main Street Garage has been mentioned for parking for this project.  Both garages have 
been allocated for other projects and the Main Street Garage is closed from 2 am to 5 pm.   
 
The trip generation totals are based on the square footage of the proposed land uses, not the 
number of office employees that is presumed in the Initial Study. Given that the square footage 
totals assumed in the Transportation Impact Assessment are accurate, the trip numbers were not 
underestimated. Further, as noted previously, the number of office employees assumed in the IS 
is consistent with the underlying peer-reviewed data used to derive the trip generation rates for 
land uses, and is consistent with the employee per 1,000 square feet used in the General Plan, 
which was based on observed data. 
 
The public parking spaces themselves are not allocated to any specific project. It should also be 
noted that effects on parking are not considered environmental impacts for the purposes of 
CEQA.

--- page 291 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Ashley Snodgrass
Sent:
Monday, February 13, 2023 10:17 AM
To:
Rendell Bustos
Subject:
FW: Parking
Hi Rendell, 
 
Please see the comment below. 
 
Ashley 
 
‐‐‐‐‐Original Message‐‐‐‐‐ 
From: Jerry Davis 
  
Sent: Monday, February 13, 2023 10:13 AM 
To: Ashley Snodgrass <asnodgrass@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: Parking 
 
Yes, thank you for responding: 
 
Tuesday 2/14/23‐ Planning Commission Meeting ‐ 435 East 3rd Avenue ‐ Office and 5 Residential Units ‐ no on‐site 
parking 
 
Be wise in word and in deed  
 
> On Feb 13, 2023, at 1:08 PM, Ashley Snodgrass <asnodgrass@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
>  
> Hi Jerry, 
>  
> Are you referring to a specific project? 
>  
> Thank you, 
> Ashley 
>  
> ‐‐‐‐‐Original Message‐‐‐‐‐ 
> From: Jerry Davis 
 
> Sent: Monday, February 13, 2023 10:01 AM 
> To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
> Cc: 
 
> Subject: Parking 
>  
> Parking has become extremely difficult for our residence. Please consider, discuss, and explain. 
> Jerry Davis 
 
 
> Yours truly 
> Your constituent 
> Be wise in word and in deed

--- page 292 ---
2
> * PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended only for the use 
of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from 
disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this 
message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the original 
sender immediately by telephone or by return e‐mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your 
computer. Thank you.

--- page 293 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Mary Escoto 
Sent:
Tuesday, February 14, 2023 11:57 AM
To:
Rendell Bustos
Cc:
Somer Smith; Jamie D'Alessandro
Subject:
435 E. 3rd Avenue Project
Attachments:
435 E 3rd Support Letter.pdf
Mr. Rendell Bustos  
Senior Planner  
Community Development Department  
330 W. 20th Ave.  
San Mateo, CA 94403  
 
RE: 435 E. 3rd Avenue Project  
 
Dear Mr. Bustos,  
 
As a San Mateo resident of 10+ years, I am writing to you in support of this project and ask that you forward this 
letter (attached) to the Planning Commission as they consider this project. The project will be an asset to our 
community in that it promotes and supports the city of San Mateo’s goals as they pertain to the provision of 
additional housing in our community to serve our local workforce. In addition, it proposes to locate office and 
housing in a key location near transit with robust transportation measures to reduce vehicle trips and promote 
healthy lifestyle choices, including walking and bicycling. This project will also replace an existing and underutilized 
auto service building surrounded by surface parking with an environmentally sustainable and attractive building 
that provides for a high‐quality design at a very visible corner. The following project components serve the project 
area, but also the city as a whole.  
 
• Transit Proximity‐Office and Residential units that are proximate to transit (within a 1/2 mile distance of the San 
Mateo Downtown Caltrain station; direct access to multiple bus routes; as well as being within walking and bike 
riding distance to employers, retail entertainment and dining amenities.  
• New Residential Units‐The project includes five residential units in downtown San Mateo, which are needed in 
San Mateo. These units will work to fulfill the city’s housing goals.  
• Streetscape Improvements ‐ including wider sidewalks, street trees, public art, street furniture, & pedestrian scale 
lighting. The improvements increase the walkability & connection from residential neighborhoods to Downtown 
San Mateo.  
• Sustainable, High‐Quality Design ‐ sustainable and attractive building that provides for a high‐quality design at a 
very visible block.  
• Robust TDM Plan‐A robust TDM plan that reduces vehicle trips by approximately 25% compared to a typical 
mixed‐use project. A variety of measures TDM measures are included to maximize the use of adjacent transit 
amenities including an innovative sustainable Transportation Initiative, which will provide a monthly subsidy for 
transit use. 
 
I encourage the Planning Commission to approve this project for San Mateo.  
 
Sincerely,  
Mary Escoto

--- page 294 ---
2
Resident of Mariner's Island

--- page 295 ---
Mary Escoto 
 
 
 
 
February 14, 2023 
 
 
Mr. Rendell Bustos 
Senior Planner 
Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave. 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
 
RE: 435 E. 3rd Avenue Project  
 
Dear Mr. Bustos, 
 
As a San Mateo resident of 10+ years, I am writing to you in support of this project and ask 
that you forward this letter to the Planning Commission as they consider this project.  The 
project will be an asset to our community in that it promotes and supports the city of San 
Mateo’s goals as they pertain to the provision of additional housing in our community to 
serve our local workforce.  In addition, it proposes to locate office and housing in a key 
location near transit with robust transportation measures to reduce vehicle trips and 
promote healthy lifestyle choices, including walking and bicycling. This project will also 
replace an existing and underutilized auto service building surrounded by surface parking 
with an environmentally sustainable and attractive building that provides for a high-quality 
design at a very visible corner. The following project components serve the project area, but 
also the city as a whole.  
  
• 
Transit Proximity-Office and Residential units that are proximate to transit (within a 1/2 
mile distance of the San Mateo Downtown Caltrain station; direct access to multiple bus 
routes; as well as being within walking and bike riding distance to employers, retail 
entertainment and dining amenities. 
• 
New Residential Units-The project includes five residential units in downtown San 
Mateo, which are needed in San Mateo. These units will work to fulfill the city’s housing 
goals.     
• 
Streetscape Improvements - including wider sidewalks, street trees, public art, street 
furniture, & pedestrian scale lighting.  The improvements increase the walkability & 
connection from residential neighborhoods to Downtown San Mateo.  
• 
Sustainable, High-Quality Design - sustainable and attractive building that provides for a 
high-quality design at a very visible block.  
• 
Robust TDM Plan-A robust TDM plan that reduces vehicle trips by approximately 25% 
compared to a typical mixed-use project.  A variety of measures TDM measures are

--- page 296 ---
included to maximize the use of adjacent transit amenities including an innovative 
Sustainable Transportation Initiative, which will provide a monthly subsidy for transit 
use. 
  
I encourage the Planning Commission to approve this project for San Mateo. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Mary Escoto 
Resident of

--- page 297 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Ashley Snodgrass
Sent:
Tuesday, February 14, 2023 3:21 PM
To:
Rendell Bustos
Subject:
FW: Comments on the 435 E. 3rd Ave. IS/MND
Attachments:
Comments on 435 E Third Ave IS-MND.pdf
Hi Rendell, 
 
Please see the public comment below. 
 
Ashley 
 
From: Laurie Hietter 
  
Sent: Tuesday, February 14, 2023 2:42 PM 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: 
 
Subject: Fwd: Comments on the 435 E. 3rd Ave. IS/MND 
 
Dear Planning Commissioners: 
 
My comments on the Windy Hill project 435 E. 3rd and the IS/MND are attached. I support the comments from Laurie 
Watanuki and share her concerns.  
 
My concerns remain regarding the cumulative effects on the downtown context, the loss of our oldest buildings, and the 
traffic and congestion that will result. The cumulative analyses in various studies grossly underestimate the 
environmental impacts because there is no realistic consideration of the 18 new highrise buildings proposed and 
approved for downtown. Using the office space numbers from the General Plan prepared many years ago is not 
appropriate for today's office use. The glare from the modern lighting will have an adverse effect on downtown.  
 
Please consider additional analysis for traffic, parking, and hazardous emissions. 
 
Thank you, 
 
Laurie Hietter 
‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ 
From: Laurie Hietter 
 
Date: Thu, Oct 27, 2022 at 1:28 PM 
Subject: Comments on the 435 E. 3rd Ave. IS/MND 
To: Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Christina Horrisberger <chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org> 
 
Dear Mr. Bustos: 
 
My comments on the Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration for the proposed project at 435 E. 3rd Ave are 
attached for your consideration.

--- page 298 ---
2
The IS/MND is in many areas a well‐prepared document; however, it has a number of inadequate assessments due to 
faulty, best‐case assumptions. These analyses should be redone and the IS/MND recirculated. 
 
We look forward to reviewing a revised IS/MND with more accurate assumptions and analyses.  
 
 
Sincerely, 
Laurie Hietter 
 
 
 
‐‐  
Laurie

--- page 299 ---
Hietter Comments on 435 E. 3rd Ave. IS/MND 
1 
10.27.22 
 
COMMENTS ON 435 E. 3RD AVE. IS/MND 
KEY POINTS 
1. The IS/MND uses best‐case or inappropriate assumptions for many analyses, making the 
IS/MND inadequate. These analyses should be redone and the IS/MND recirculated.  
2. 20 days is not adequate for citizens to review and digest the over 500 pages of IS/MND 
and technical reports. Please extend the comment period. 
3. There are many complicated mitigation measures. The Mitigation Monitoring and 
Reporting Plan should be provided with the IS/MND to ensure there will be adequate 
monitoring and reporting. 
4. The project’s one affordable unit makes a mockery of the process.  
5. The project is not needed. There is over 700,000 sq. ft. of office space approved or 
planned downtown and San Mateo has a jobs/housing imbalance. 
6. The architecture is modern, utilitarian, and cheap. Boxes on top of a box. Does San 
Mateo not have a design review board? 
7. The Logistics Plan and Traffic Control Plan should be analyzed as part of the project. 
The traffic management during construction is very important because of the traffic 
backups from the Caltrain at‐grade crossing delays. The IS/MND is deficient due to this 
omission. 
8. The number of employees is undercounted because 300 square feet per employee is used 
in impact analysis calculations. A more realistic and conservative number is 150 square 
feet per employee. This more realistic allocation would result in 224 employees, which is 
more than double what is analyzed in the IS/MND. The air quality, noise, traffic, and 
public services sections must be reanalyzed using the more realistic, or a worst‐case 
scenario (100 square feet per employee). The IS/MND is deficient because it is based on 
an inaccurate assumption with no reference.  
9. The proposed project would result in a cumulative significant impact on the nearby and 
downtown historic resources. An EIR should be prepared to address the significant 
cumulative impacts on the downtown context.  
10. The proposed project will cause a significant cumulative impact on traffic, shade, and 
wind in the downtown area.  
11. The project will exacerbate the jobs/housing imbalance and should not be approved.  
12. The project will add to the cumulative lack of adequate parkland.  
13. Please specify if the conditions of approval are considered mitigation measures that will 
mitigate impacts to less than significant levels. 
14. The cumulative noise and vibration analysis did not consider all buildings that may be 
constructed at the same time, such as 180 E. 3rd Ave. and Draeger’s, which could be 
under construction at the same time as the proposed project. The grade separations 
could also be constructed in a similar timeframe. The analysis should not be best case 
but should be redone.

--- page 300 ---
Hietter Comments on 435 E. 3rd Ave. IS/MND 
2 
10.27.22 
 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
p. 9, 3.21 Parking and Access 
The description of parking references the Kiku Crossing City garage. The parking for that 
building has already been committed to the projects at 3rd and El Camino Real (which have no 
parking) and Kiku Crossing (Kiku and the garage removed surface parking).  
The in‐lieu parking fee is essentially deferred mitigation because addition parking will need to 
be constructed. The IS/MND is inadequate. 
AESTHETICS 
The IS/MND authors have misinterpreted the requirement in SB 743 to consider the aesthetic 
effects of a project on historic resources. Aesthetic effects of a project are exempt except for the 
analysis of aesthetic effects related to historic resources. The IS/MND is deficient due to this 
omission. 
The building will represent a new significant source of light at night and glare that will affect 
nearby residents. Please provide mitigation to protect adjacent residents.  
AIR QUALITY 
The air quality analysis is flawed because the number of office is undercounted. 300 square feet 
per employee results in an underestimate of the number of employees, and therefore trips and 
emission. According to Zippia, the North American average is 150 to 175 square feet and the 
technology industry uses 115 to 155 square feet. Please recalculate all impacts that use the 300 
square feet per person number. 
Condition of Approval AIR‐3.1 (D) is inadequate because it is not objective and is left to the 
discretion of the City.  
The effects on the Safari Kids pre‐school at 521 E. Fifth should be analyzed. 
BIOLOGY 
Removal of 31 trees, including 4 protected trees, is a substantial loss of nesting habitat 
downtown. 
CULTURAL RESOURCES 
p. 50 para. 2: “ Impacts to properties listed in the NRHP must be evaluated under CEQA.” 
CEQA requires analysis of impacts to historic resource beyond those listed in the NRHP. Please 
see Historical Resources (CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.5 (a)) for a more comprehensive 
definition of resources that must be addressed under CEQA.

--- page 301 ---
Hietter Comments on 435 E. 3rd Ave. IS/MND 
3 
10.27.22 
 
(4) The fact that a resource is not listed in, or determined eligible for listing in the 
California Register of Historical Resources, not included in a local register of historical 
resources (pursuant to Section 5020.1(k) of the Public Resources Code), or identified in 
an historical resources survey (meeting the criteria in Section 5024.1(g) of the Public 
Resource Code) does not preclude a lead agency from determining that the resource 
may be an historical resource as defined in Public Resources Code Section 5020.1(j) or 
5024.1.  
 
p. 55, para. 3: The IS/MND even states “However, the setting of the buildings located at 273 
South Railroad Avenue (the former St. James Hotel from the 1860s) and 415 South Claremont 
Street have already been significantly changed by the surrounding development of modern 
conventional construction shown on Figure 3.1‐3.” 
The St. James Hotel (273 South Railroad Avenue) from the 1860s is one of the few remaining 
structures downtown from the original center of San Mateo, focused around 1st Ave, 3rd Ave., 
Railroad, and Main Street. Surrounding this building with modern glass boxes that do not 
respect the heritage of San Mateo is a significant impact that needs to be addressed in a revised 
IS/MND and mitigated; or, and Environmental Impact Report (EIR) must be prepared. 
The City has approved five four to seven story buildings downtown near the proposed project, 
which will diminish the historic context of 273 South Railroad, 415 South Claremont Street, and 
the downtown historic district. This project may be individually not a significant effect but 
contributes to a cumulative significant impact. No mitigation is proposed so an EIR must be 
prepared. 
p. 55 
“As described under Section 4.5.1.2 Existing Conditions, while no prehistoric‐ or historic‐era 
sites or resources have been documented within 1,000 feet of the project site, the project site is 
located within a medium sensitivity zone for archaeological resources.” 
Please revise the statement to reflect the National Register of Historic Places‐eligible building at 
273 Railroad Avenue and the building of local significance at 415 South Claremont. Please 
address the effects on the context of the historic buildings.  
NOISE AND VIBRATION 
Will vibration from construction of the proposed project, combined with construction of Block 
20 and 21, and 180 E. 3rd? have an adverse effect on the historic building?  
The Public Services section states that the project would add 13 residents and 111 new 
employees in the office space. Footnote 99 states: “Office uses typically generate one employee 
per 300 square feet of office space. 33,529 square feet of office space divided by 300 square feet 
equals 111 employees.” The citation for the source is not provided.

--- page 302 ---
Hietter Comments on 435 E. 3rd Ave. IS/MND 
4 
10.27.22 
 
The number of employees is substantially underestimated because 300 square feet per person is 
on the high end of the space per person, which ranges from 100 to 400 square feet per person. 
According to Zippia, the North American average is 150 to 175 square feet and the technology 
industry uses 115 to 155 square feet. Please recalculate all impacts that use the 300 square feet 
per person number. 
PUBLIC SERVICES 
p. 149; Condition of Approval PS‐4.1: The City is already in a park/open space deficit. Allowing 
an in‐lieu fee will only exacerbate the problem, which is a cumulative significant effect in the 
City. 
The acreage of parkland is currently below the goal established in the City’s General Plan of 6.0 
acres per 1,000 residents. This project is adding to a cumulative impact by adding residents 
without adding adequate park space.  
p. 152: “The proposed project includes private amenities for future employees and residents of 
the proposed project.” The private amenities are not addressed in Impact REC‐1. 
TRAFFIC  
Where will the in‐lieu fees create parking? The Main Parking Garage is committed to previous 
projects and cannot accommodate another project’s parking.  
The building does not have a loading zone, which may cause significant traffic delays during 
the train crossings multiple times per hour. 
p. 154, Table 4.17‐1: Summary of Existing and Project Trips: The table undercounts trips because 
the number of employees is undercounted. The authors use 300 square feet per person, which is 
on the high end of the range, which results in undercounting employees. At 150 square feet per 
person (more common now) the number of employees would be 224 employees. Please 
recalculate the effects to better reflect a more likely impact.

--- page 303 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Ashley Snodgrass
Sent:
Tuesday, February 14, 2023 3:24 PM
To:
Rendell Bustos
Subject:
FW: 435 E. 3rd Avenue New Five Story Office/Residental Mixed Use Building(PA2021-081)
Hi Rendell, 
 
Please see the public comment below. 
 
Ashley 
 
From: diana pettit 
  
Sent: Tuesday, February 14, 2023 2:59 PM 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 435 E. 3rd Avenue New Five Story Office/Residental Mixed Use Building(PA2021‐081) 
 
This project consists of Mixed use of Office/Housing on 435 E.3rd Avenue in the City of San Mateo. 
However, 5 units of housing is not enough housing for the future of our city families. 
In fact, the office development will be a large building with a lighting around the middle edging of the two floors. The 
building lighting will illuminate the whole sidewalk. It will continue to glare into the Windy Hill property, which has 
residences on the top floor. 
Currently, we already experience this illuminating lighting from the second floor office building at the Windy Hill 
property. The lighting can be seen east towards all the way to 3rd Avenue and South Fremont Streets. 
I have commented and written many times to the City Council when the "Block 21" proposal was initiated and approved 
by the City Council regarding this illumination of lighting. 
There are draperies that have been installed however now they look very inappropriate for an office building. 
One other issue is the "permit parking" is not enough for this neighborhood. 
 
Thank You. 
 
Diana Pettit

--- page 304 ---
435 E. 3rdAvenue
Five Story Office/Residential Mixed-Use Building
(PA-2021-081)
Planning Commission Public Hearing
February 14, 2023
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner
Community Development Department

--- page 305 ---
435 E. 3rdAvenue
Five Story Office/Residential Mixed-Use Building
(PA-2021-081)
Planning Commission Public Hearing
February 14, 2023
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner
Community Development Department

--- page 306 ---
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
Location
Project Description
Entitlements
Project History
Public Input
3

--- page 307 ---
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
Location
Project Description
Entitlements
Project History
Public Input
4
Downtown Caltrain 
Station
Project Site
Off-Site Construction Staging

--- page 308 ---
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
Location
Project Description
Entitlements
Project History
Public Input
5
• Site Address: 435 E. 3rd Avenue
• (1) Parcel
• 11,035 sq. ft. (0.25 Acre)
• General Plan: Downtown Retail Core Support
• CBD/S (Central Business District Support)
• Existing auto repair facility

--- page 309 ---
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
Location
Project Description
Entitlements
Project History
Public Input
6
East: Retail, Service Uses
North: Commercial, Service Uses
West: Commercial Uses (Historic)
South: Restaurant, Office, Residential
East: Retail, Restaurant Uses (Block 21 Site)

--- page 310 ---
7
• 33,529 sq. ft. of Office Uses
• 5 Residential Units - 20% Low-Income (1 unit)
• Five Stories
• Total Floor Area: 39,893 sq. ft.
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
Location
Project Description
Entitlements
Project History
Public Input

--- page 311 ---
8
• Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR)
• Mixed-use building with office and residential uses
• Site Development Planning Application (SDPA)
• Removal of 31 trees 
• 4 Protected Trees
• 6 Trees on adjacent lot
• Replacement planting through 5 new street trees and 
landscape unit in-lieu fee
• Special Use Permit (SUP)
• Off-site construction staging at 402 S. Delaware Street
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
Location
Project Description
Entitlements
Project History
Public Input

--- page 312 ---
9
• Pre-Application
• Neighborhood Meeting – October 7, 2021
• Study Session – November 23, 2021
• Formal Planning Application
• Filed in December of 2021
• Refined building design
• Revised Density Bonus incentive requests
• Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration
• Public Review: October 7, 2022 to October 27, 2022
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
Location
Project Description
Entitlements
Project History
Public Input

--- page 313 ---
10
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
Location
Project Description
Entitlements
Project History
Public Input
• Public Noticing
• Mailing addresses in 1,000 ft. radius
• Placard
• Newspaper
• Public Comments
• Should include parking
• Should include more residential units
• Residential units should be larger
• Improve building design
• In-support

--- page 314 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
General Plan and Zoning Code
Local Plans
State Law
Design Review
Environmental Review
11

--- page 315 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
12
• General Plan Land Use – Downtown Retail Core Support
• CBD/S (Central Business District Support)
Proposed
Maximum
Floor Area Ratio
3.61 *
3.0
Density
5 Units
18 Units *
Building Height
55’-0”
55’-0”
Setbacks
0’-10” to 3’-4”
10’-0”
Proposed
Minimum
Short Term Bike Parking
4
2
Long Term Bike Parking
9
9
Open Space
Commercial
Residential (Private)  
600 sq. ft.
128-415 sq. ft./unit 
335 sq. ft.
80 sq. ft./unit
*Modified Via State Density Bonus Law
General Plan and Zoning Code
Local Plans
State Law
Design Review
Environmental Review

--- page 316 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
13
• Downtown Area Plan
• Central Claremont Sub-Area
• Pedestrian Master Plan 
• Overall Sidewalk Widths:
• 14’-7” along E. 3rd Ave. (less than 16 ft. min.)
• 16’-1” along S. Claremont St.
• Superseded by Zoning Code
• Benches, planters, pedestrian lighting
• Bicycle Master Plan
• E. 3rd Ave. – Class IV Separated Bike Lane
• S. Claremont St. – Class III Bicycle Boulevard
General Plan and Zoning Code
Local Plans
State Law
Design Review
Environmental Review

--- page 317 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
• Housing Accountability Act
• Not Applicable – Less than 2/3 Housing
• State Density Bonus Law
• Provides 5 units
• 1 BMR unit (20% Very Low-Income)
• No Waiver requests
• Incentive Request: Increase FAR to 3.61
• Assembly Bill (AB) 2097
• Effective January 2023
• Removes parking requirements for projects within one-
half mile from major public transit 
• No longer requires payment of in-lieu fee or incentive 
request
General Plan and Zoning Code
Local Plans
State Law
Design Review
Environmental Review

--- page 318 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
15
Exterior Materials
Brick veneer
Low tint glazing
Stucco
Wood Cladding
General Plan and Zoning Code
Local Plans
State Law
Design Review
Environmental Review

--- page 319 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
16
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
• Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration
• Mitigation Monitoring & Reporting Program (MMRP)
Mitigation Measures
• Air Quality: Reduce toxic air contaminants
• Biological Resources: Protect nesting birds
• Cultural Resources: Protect tribal resources and human remains
• Hydrology: Address contaminated soil
• Noise: Reduce construction noise and vibration
Public Review: October 7 to October 27
• No comment resulted in re-analysis, new or worsened impacts
• Response Memo issued on February 2, 2023
• Text Edit posted February 2, 2023
General Plan and Zoning Code
Local Plans
State Law
Design Review
Environmental Review

--- page 320 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
17
Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA)
• Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT): No Impact
• Meets Screening Criteria for projects in a High‐Quality 
Transit Area (HQTA) 
• Level of Service (LOS): No adverse effects
AM Peak Trips
PM Peak Trips
Average Daily Trips
+ 49 Trips
+ 51 Trips
+ 309 Trips
General Plan and Zoning Code
Local Plans
State Law
Design Review
Environmental Review
• Does not cause significant impacts in Opening Year traffic 
volumes, including projects approved at the time of analysis

--- page 321 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
18
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan
• Required based on City/County Association of Governments 
(C/CAG) policy
• Minimum 25% reduction
Proposed TDM Measures –26.5% Trip Reduction
• TDM Coordinator
• Bike showers and lockers
• Sustainable transportation incentive ($100 voucher)
General Plan and Zoning Code
Local Plans
State Law
Design Review
Environmental Review

--- page 322 ---
19
CONDITION OF APPROVAL #18 (REVISED)
DOWNTOWN CPID PARKING – The applicant shall demonstrate that the parking 
required by the San Mateo Municipal Code has been fulfilled in accordance with 
Municipal Code Chapter 27.64.100(a)(9) through provision of replacement stalls 
available for use by the public, through payment of a prorated CPID parking fee 
in lieu for the loss of (3) street parking spaces on S. Claremont Street between 
the hours of 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Mondays through Saturdayshour(s) and 
day(s) specified by RecologySan Mateo County, or a combination of both
subject to the satisfaction of the Public Works Director, or his/her designee. 
(PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 323 ---
RECOMMENDATION 
20
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Site Plan and Architectural Review and Site 
Development Planning Application, for a mixed-use project located at 435 E. 3rd Avenue; and 
a Special Use Permit for construction staging located at 402 S. Delaware Street based on the 
Findings for Approval and subject to the modified Conditions of Approval; and,
Adopt a Mitigated Negative Declaration assessing the environmental impacts of the 
project.

--- page 324 ---
Thank You
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner
Community Development Department
rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7211
21

--- page 325 ---


--- page 326 ---
435 E. 3rd Avenue
Office-Residential Mixed-Use Project
Planning Commission
February 14, 2023

--- page 327 ---
About Us
Downtown San Mateo Property Owner – including recent 
projects 405 E. 4th Ave., 406 E. 3rd Ave. and Block 21 
under construction.
Mixed-Use, Commercial & Multi-Family Projects
Bay Area Experience-Locally Focused
Developments in Belmont, Palo Alto & Redwood City

--- page 328 ---
Project Site
The northwest corner of 
E. 3rd Ave. and Claremont    
Currently Auto Repair Use
Approximately .25 acre 
site

--- page 329 ---
Proposed Project
33,938 sq. ft. of Office Use
5 Residential Units
20% Affordable –Low Income (City Requires 15% Low Income)
1-Studio and 4-One-Bedroom Units
Larger Units ranging from 630-979 sq. ft., large outdoor terraces
5 Stories in Height
Office Entry along E. 3rd Avenue/Residential Entry along S. 
Claremont Street
Contemporary Design-Traditional Brick, Metal & Plaster

--- page 330 ---
Project Attributes Summary
Pedestrian Focused:
Substantial streetscape improvements including wider sidewalks, street 
trees, street furniture, & pedestrian scale lighting
Improves walkability & connection from residential neighborhoods to 
Downtown San Mateo –removes driveways and curb cuts for a cohesive 
sidewalk
Additional on-street parking
Payment of approximately $1 million for BMR Units through 
Commercial Linkage Fee 
Due to the project location & mixed-use nature, the project 
has no Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) impacts.
The project includes voluntary, robust TDM measures, 
including Sustainable Transportation Initiative, which will 
provide a monthly subsidy for transit use.

--- page 331 ---
Project Timeline
Pre-Application submitted on March 30, 2021
Neighborhood Meeting  - October 7, 2021
PC Study Session - November 23, 2021
Formal Application Submittal - March 25, 2021
PC Meeting originally scheduled for November 8, 2022 
based on Environmental Review Circulation date of 
October 7-27, 2022
Project delayed until February based on State Law 
changes/City meeting availability.

--- page 332 ---
View from E. 3" Ave.

BODES TTT 1

|

&

WINDY HILL
proper

ty ventures



--- page 333 ---
WINDY HILL
property ventures

:
x
2

mY)
ui
=
O
=
=
uv
>
ic
D
<



--- page 334 ---
View from S. Claremont St.

WINDY HILL
property ventures



--- page 335 ---
property ventures

&

WINDY HILL

er

BUILDING FOOTPRINT
9,757 SF

c
&
ate

)
=
VY)

ON SIDEWALKS AND CURBS INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO HYDRANTS, UTILITY

METERS, UTILITY POLES AND STREETLIGHTS -
« REFER TO SHEET C2.01 FOR ALL EXISTING EASEMENTS ON THE PROJECT. THERE ARE

NO PROPOSED EASEMENTS AT THIS TIME.
REFER TO SHEET L0.4 FOR LOCATION, SPECIES AND SIZE OF ALL EXISTING TREES

REFER TO SHEET C2.01 AND C3.01 FOR ALL EXISTING AND PROPOSED OBSTRUCTIONS:
NOTED TO BE REMOVED.

SITE PLAN NOTES:



--- page 336 ---
@
>
oF

—I
Ww

—

q=

O

|
©

2
>

}—

ieee!

tt

Bote

WINDY HILL

property ventures



--- page 337 ---
Residential Level
Private Open Space 
for each Unit

--- page 338 ---
435 E. 3rd Avenue
Office-Residential Mixed-Use Project
Planning Commission
February 14, 2023