Fact Brief: Does Campbell have a partnership with Flock cameras? - San José Spotlight English Spanish Vietnamese English About Us Our Mission Our Team Board of Directors Advisory Board Careers Advertise Support Us Newsletter Events All Events PolitiBeat Get Involved Contact Donate Subscribe Local San Jose Downtown San Jose East San Jose Santa Clara Sunnyvale Milpitas West Valley Palo Alto Mountain View Santa Clara County Local News Map NBC Bay Area Policy Education Environment Health Transportation State The Washington Report Business Economy Technology The Biz Beat Housing Real Estate Homelessness Development Elections Community Latinx Vietnamese In the Spotlight Investigative Fact Briefs Multimedia Podcast Videos Opinion Columnists Op-ed Editorials From the CEO Donate English Spanish Vietnamese English About Us Our Mission Our Team Board of Directors Advisory Board Careers Advertise Support Us Newsletter Events All Events PolitiBeat Get Involved Contact Donate Follow Us Gigafact Fact Brief: Does Campbell have a partnership with Flock cameras? by Donovan Farnham April 15, 2026 April 14, 2026 A Flock license plate reader camera at the corner of San Antonio Road and Charleston Road in Mountain View on Jan. 28, 2026. Photo by Seeger Gray. Don't miss a story. Get San José Spotlight headlines delivered to your inbox. Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... No. Campbell will no longer be using Flock Safety automated license plate reading cameras. In a LinkedIn post, Councilmember Sergio Lopez said in February the city was decommissioning its Flock cameras and switching to an in-house system. Campbell and Flock started working together in 2022 and operated 22 cameras across the city. The change comes at a time when many Bay Area governments have debated using the controversial cameras. It was revealed last month that Flock enabled a national “look up” setting on Mountain View’s camera system without the city’s knowledge. This led to a security breach where 250 law enforcement agencies across the U.S. gained access to Mountain View’s data without the city’s knowledge or consent. Flock enabled the same national “look up” setting on Los Alto’s cameras with its knowledge, but no security breach was detected. This fact brief is responsive to conversations such as this one . San José Spotlight partners with Gigafact to produce fact briefs — bite-sized fact checks of trending claims. Read our methodology to learn how we check claims. Sources LinkedIn Campbell Mayor Sergio Lopez's LinkedIn post Mountain View Voice Mountain View police turn off license plate cameras after data sharing breach Subscribe To Our Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest news and updates from our team. I want to receive updates: Daily Weekly Δ I want to receive updates: Daily Weekly Δ Comment Policy (updated 5/10/2023): Readers are required to log in through a social media or email platform to confirm authenticity. We reserve the right to delete comments or ban users who engage in personal attacks, hate speech, excess profanity or make verifiably false statements. Comments are moderated and approved by admin. Leave a Reply Cancel Reply You must be logged in to post a comment. The Latest News West Valley gets first mobile health clinic May 8, 2026 Santa Clara County DA ordered to recuse from Stanford vandalism trial May 8, 2026 San Jose library could restrict archive access due to budget cuts May 8, 2026 Knight Foundation funds first South Bay journalism fellowship May 7, 2026 Early voting begins as Santa Clara County mails ballots May 7, 2026 Sunnyvale residents opposed to park redesign May 7, 2026 Most Popular This Week 1 San Jose restaurant to relocate after city takes away parking 2 High-rise apartments in Campbell could replace closed restaurant 3 San Jose budget proposal outlines millions in service cuts 4 Santa Clara County Fairgrounds audit reveals conflicts of interest 5 Silicon Valley Business Alliance calls for halt to gas-appliance ban Subscribe to Our Newsletters About Us San José Spotlight is an award-winning nonprofit newsroom dedicated to fearless journalism that disrupts the status quo, uplifts marginalized voices, holds power to account and paves the way for change. We’re changing the face of local journalism by building a community-supported newsroom that ignites civic engagement, educates residents and strengthens our democracy. 408.206.5327 info@sanjosespotlight.com Submit a News Tip Subscribe to our newsletters Read Local Business Housing Education Health Community Investigative Podcast Videos Follow Us Local Business Housing Education Health Community Investigative Podcast Videos Privacy Policy / Cookie Policy / San José Spotlight © 2026, All Rights Reserved. San José Spotlight is a project of the San José News Bureau, a 501(c)(3) charitable organization | Tax ID: 82-5355128. | All donations are tax-deductible