Genzel: When it comes to misusing Flock cameras, concern is not enough - San José Spotlight English Spanish Vietnamese English About Us Our Mission Our Team Board of Directors Advisory Board Careers Advertise Support Us Newsletter Events All Events PolitiBeat Get Involved Contact Donate Subscribe Local San Jose Downtown San Jose East San Jose Santa Clara Sunnyvale Milpitas West Valley Palo Alto Mountain View Santa Clara County Local News Map NBC Bay Area South County Policy Education Environment Health Transportation State The Washington Report Business Economy Technology The Biz Beat Housing Real Estate Homelessness Development Elections Community Latinx Vietnamese In the Spotlight Investigative Fact Briefs Multimedia Podcast Videos Opinion Columnists Op-ed Editorials From the CEO Donate English Spanish Vietnamese English About Us Our Mission Our Team Board of Directors Advisory Board Careers Advertise Support Us Newsletter Events All Events PolitiBeat Get Involved Contact Donate Follow Us Op-ed Genzel: When it comes to misusing Flock cameras, concern is not enough by Special to San José Spotlight October 6, 2026 October 6, 2026 An automated license plate reader from Flock Safety. Photo courtesy of the Santa Clara County Sheriff's Office. Don't miss a story. Get San José Spotlight headlines delivered to your inbox. Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... “I am concerned.” “A breach of trust.” This is what we heard from San Jose councilmembers at the recent Rules Committee hearing on the misuse of the city’s Flock license plate reader system . These are appropriate words. But concern is not enough. A San Jose police officer used the department’s Flock system to share a woman’s location with his cousin who was accused of abusing her. Imagine for a moment how this woman must have felt. She had done precisely what victims of domestic violence are told to do: She sought help. She trusted the institutions of her city when she told them that she was afraid of someone. And the city’s surveillance infrastructure allegedly helped that person find her. What could be a more literal breach of trust? Of course, the individual responsible should be punished and the rules should be tightened. Yet this is not a problem with an individual, the problem is systemic. It was predictable. It was predicted. So while what happened in San Jose is shocking, it is not surprising. The people most vulnerable to surveillance are simply the first to feel what it enables: domestic-violence survivors (officers have used Flock to stalk ex-partners and romantic interests across the U.S. ); immigrants (police searches have exposed Connecticut Flock data to immigration enforcement ); and protesters (California agencies have searched Orange County’s Flock system for anti-ICE protesters). “These are just bad apples, isolated cases” we hear from Flock defenders. But time and time again, these “exceptions” follow from a basic property of surveillance infrastructure: Once information is collected, its use expands beyond the original reason given for collecting it. If you build a tool which takes a picture to answer “Where was the suspect’s car?” it’s not hard to then make it answer “Where was my ex?” or “Where was this immigrant?” or “Who came to this mosque?” You cannot prevent surveillance creep through better guardrails. Mountain View learned that this year . Despite supposedly strict policies requiring the city to approve agencies individually, more than 250 unapproved agencies conducted roughly 600,000 searches of its Flock data in a single year. Stop telling us that one more layer of guardrails will make mass surveillance safe. The failure is built into the system itself. As a member of the Safety Over Surveillance coalition, I am asking San Jose to stop subjecting its residents to mass surveillance and immediately suspend the Flock cameras . Councilmembers are right to be concerned. The woman whose safety was compromised had considerably more than concern at stake. San Jose now has an opportunity to show us that when it calls something a breach of community trust, those words have consequences. Mariya Genzel is the lead of Blue Turn Indivisible, a partner in the Safety over Surveillance coalition. Subscribe To Our Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest news and updates from our team. I want to receive updates: Daily Weekly Δ I want to receive updates: Daily Weekly Δ Comment Policy (updated 5/10/2023): Readers are required to log in through a social media or email platform to confirm authenticity. We reserve the right to delete comments or ban users who engage in personal attacks, hate speech, excess profanity or make verifiably false statements. Comments are moderated and approved by admin. Leave a Reply Cancel Reply You must be logged in to post a comment. The Latest News Genzel: When it comes to misusing Flock cameras, concern is not enough October 6, 2026 San Francisco 49ers spending big on Santa Clara mayoral race October 6, 2026 Judge hands San Jose win in license plate reader case October 6, 2026 San Jose tells food pantry it must shut down October 5, 2026 Paz-Cedillos: Heritage is what we inherit, legacy is what we build October 5, 2026 Newsom signs Silicon Valley lawmakers’ bills to combat ICE October 5, 2026 Most Popular This Week 1 Data center company to acquire former South San Jose IBM site 2 San Jose tells food pantry it must shut down 3 VTA workers offered affordable housing built by transit agency 4 Data center developers share plans at San Jose town hall 5 San Jose school trustee admonished for discriminatory remarks Subscribe to Our Newsletters About Us San José Spotlight is an award-winning nonprofit newsroom dedicated to fearless journalism that disrupts the status quo, uplifts marginalized voices, holds power to account and paves the way for change. We’re changing the face of local journalism by building a community-supported newsroom that ignites civic engagement, educates residents and strengthens our democracy. 408.206.5327 info@sanjosespotlight.com Submit a News Tip Subscribe to our newsletters Read Local Business Housing Education Community Investigative Podcast Videos Policy Elections Opinions Follow Us Local Business Housing Education Community Investigative Podcast Videos Policy Elections Opinions Privacy Policy / Cookie Policy / San José Spotlight © 2026, All Rights Reserved. San José Spotlight is a project of the San José News Bureau, a 501(c)(3) charitable organization | Tax ID: 82-5355128. | All donations are tax-deductible Secret Link