--- page 1 ---
A coalition of groups including SIREN, Working Partnerships USA, Electronic Frontier
Foundation and more are demanding San Jose cancel its contract with automatic license plate
reader company Flock Safety and conduct an audit of the local surveillance system. Photo by
Joyce Chu.
Community advocates are calling for San Jose’s police chief to step down, after
revelations that a police officer used license plate tracking technology to help his
San Jose residents want police chief out after
Flock camera misuse
by Joyce Chu
October 1, 2026

--- page 2 ---
cousin stalk a woman she alleges abused her.
In addition, a coalition of groups — including Safety over Surveillance, Services,
Immigrant Rights and Education Network (SIREN), Working Partnerships USA,
Electronic Frontier Foundation, Amigos de Guadalupe Center for Justice and
Empowerment and more — are demanding San Jose cancel its contract with
surveillance company Flock Safety and conduct an audit on its system of
automatic license plate readers.
“Mass surveillance does not keep us safe, it keeps us afraid and endangers all of our
visitors to our beloved San Jose,” Kimberly Woo, an organizer with SIREN, said at a
Wednesday rally. “Real public safety comes from investing in people, strengthening
communities, protecting the rights and dignity of all residents.”
The SJPD officer was fired in April after a yearlong investigation that found he had
illicitly accessed license plate reader data on his phone, according to the Mercury
News. The police department was first informed of the incident in February 2025
after the woman reported that the man knew her whereabouts.
City officials have repeatedly reassured residents that Flock cameras are safe and
secure, despite incidents that point to the contrary. In March, while the
investigation was ongoing, Police Chief Paul Joseph told the City Council that “our
audits have shown that our license plate reader data has not gone anywhere it isn’t
supposed to go.”

--- page 3 ---
Kimberly Woo, an organizer with SIREN, said the San Jose Police Department
breached its trust with the public at a rally held on Sept. 30, 2026. Photo by
Joyce Chu.
Deputy Police Chief Macedonio Zuniga said he couldn’t address why Joseph was
not forthcoming about the investigation.
“I can’t speak to what was occurring at the time or where this investigation was at
the time,” Zuniga told San José Spotlight.
Advocates said these incidents breach public trust and spell a lack of transparency
within SJPD.
“The city’s reliance on these cameras creates new threats, and there’s no amount of
safeguards that can truly eliminate the possibility of abuse,” Woo said.
City officials are considering ways to create more safeguards for automatic license
plate readers, after tightening controls once already earlier this year. Two separate
proposals — one put forth by Mayor Matt Mahan, Vice Mayor Pam Foley and

--- page 4 ---
Councilmembers Domingo Candelas and George Casey, and another written by
Councilmembers Rosemary Kamei, Anthony Tordillos, David Cohen and Michael
Mulcahy — aim to make it harder for city employees to use personal devices to
access data from license plate readers. They would also expand audits designed to
catch illicit searches.
At the San Jose Rules and Open Government Committee meeting on Wednesday,
the five councilmembers on the committee unanimously voted to have staff
analyze the work needed to bring the proposals forward, and bring it back to the
committee in a few weeks time. Then the policy will go before the full council to
vote on its implementation.
Foley said the memos do not address the demands advocates have to cover the
cameras and end the Flock contract since city council makes the final decision, not
the rules committee.
“I can’t express enough how concerned we are about the breach, so I look forward
to having this formal discussion with council and how we’re going to move
forward, and with the police chief present because his input is important as well,”
Foley said at the meeting. “We did listen to him in March, and we had established
guardrails that we all thought would be successful. Turns out, they weren’t, and it’s
very, very alarming.”
In March, councilmembers adopted a range of new safeguards for San Jose’s
network of 474 cameras, including limits on where the devices may be installed
and how long license plate data may be stored.
But the latest incident further exposes the gaps in accountability that exist with
automated license plate readers, which have come under increasing scrutiny in
recent months. In November, a coalition of local advocacy groups sued San Jose,
alleging the city’s practice of allowing warrantless searches of its license plate data
violates drivers’ privacy rights.
Earlier this year, South Bay jurisdictions —including Santa Clara County, Los Altos
Hills and Mountain View — terminated their contracts with Flock Safety, amid
concerns the company has allowed transfers of license plate reader data to out-of-
state law enforcement agencies, a practice barred by state law.
Zuniga said SJPD will follow the city council’s lead on using surveillance cameras.
“We’re going to look at the workload to see everything that we can do to ensure

--- page 5 ---
that we leverage our technology responsibly and ethically,” he said.
Greg Ramos, an advocate with Safety over Surveillance, said the city needs to take
decisive action in ending the Flock contracts and ensuring the safety of residents.
“Everybody’s always playing hot potato with the responsibility of things, and then
they always say, ‘We’re going to come back to it when the data is available,'” he told
San José Spotlight.
Contact Joyce Chu at joyce@sanjosespotlight.com or @joyce_speaks on X.