Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock
Alexandria VA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Tue Aug 04 2026

Overview

Alexandria VA PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Alexandria VA PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Alexandria VA PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Featured Success Stories

Recent Success Stories

September 15, 2023: Alexandria police located a stolen vehicle using LPR technology. The driver turned out to be a fugitive who had escaped from a Wisconsin prison on September 11, 2023. The suspect was arrested, and the stolen vehicle was recovered.

October 5, 2023: Alexandria officers located a stolen vehicle using the LPR system. The driver, a missing juvenile from Fairfax County, VA, was taken into custody. The vehicle was returned to its owner, and the juvenile was reunited with her family.
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

21 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

61

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCMEC Amber Alert, NCIC - VSP
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Alexandria VA PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harrassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
More Info

License Plate Reader Policy

https://www.alexandriava.gov/sites/default/files/2025-10/10.40_license_plate_reader.pdf

Provided by Flock Safety