Appleton mayor calls to remove Flock cameras Watch Now Menu Local National Weather Sports Shop Scripps Watch Now Watch Now Close × Live Watch Alerts Search site Go Watch NBC 26 Live The Spot - Green Bay 32 Weather Daily Forecast 3 Degree Guarantee Cameron's Road Show Weather Radar Weather Alerts Weather Maps Closings & Delays Live Cams Storm Tracker News Latest News National News In Your Neighborhood Washington Island Dont Waste Your Money Your Health Matters Contact Us Sports Green Bay Packers Sports Showdown High School Sports Milwaukee Brewers Milwaukee Bucks Olympics Packers on the Clock What’s Brewing Wisconsin Veteran Voices Shows NBC Shows The Kelly Clarkson Show The Spot - Green Bay 32 NBC 26 Neighborhood Connect About Us NBC 26 News Team Contact Us WACY Contact Us TV Listings Contests Support Advertise With Us Gifts For Teens Shop With A Cop Gas Price Tracker Advertise With Us Wellness Experts Trusted Advisor Manage Emails Apps Careers Search NBC26GreenBay nbc26 NBC 26 Neighborhood Connect America 250 Green Bay Fox Cities Oshkosh Fond du Lac Lakeshore Door County In Your Neighborhood What’s Brewing Wisconsin Veteran Voices Contests More + Quick Links + NBC 26 Neighborhood Connect America 250 Green Bay Fox Cities Oshkosh Fond du Lac Lakeshore Door County In Your Neighborhood What’s Brewing Wisconsin Veteran Voices Contests News Local News In Your Neighborhood Oshkosh Actions Facebook Tweet Email Appleton mayor calls to remove Flock cameras Mayor Jake Woodford says he wants to remove all Flock Safety automated license plate readers from Appleton after hearing concerns from residents, but the move would not eliminate other ALPR systems. Prev Next Appleton mayor moves to remove Flock cameras By: Hayden Bailey Posted OSHKOSH (NBC 26) — Appleton Mayor Jake Woodford has called for the removal of all Flock Safety automated license plate readers (ALPRs) in the city, citing community concerns about the company and its technology. Flock cameras will remain in place until further action is taken. The announcement comes two weeks after Oshkosh similarly removed its Flock cameras. WATCH THE FULL BROADCAST HERE: Appleton mayor moves to remove Flock cameras "We pay close attention to what's happening in our communities and also with vendors that we use and also hearing from our constituents about concerns that they've had with this particular company and the technology," Woodford said. The mayor's move would not eliminate all ALPRs in Appleton. The Appleton Common Council recently proposed a separate resolution that would remove all ALPRs, rather than only Flock cameras. District 12 Alderperson Nate Wolff raised concerns about simply replacing Flock with another vendor. "They want to try out Axon. While perhaps Axon is a better vendor, it seems a bit insane to me that we're just going to be like, here's this giant mess with over 600,000 examples of abuse by law enforcement. Let's just give it another shot," Wolff said. Appleton residents expressed mixed views on the cameras. Some said the technology serves a public safety purpose. "I mean, personal privacy is important, of course, but, it is good to have the cameras there because there's a lot of people doing bad things. Being on their phone, maybe drinking and driving," Austin Smalley said. Others voiced broader concerns about surveillance. "The problem is, it's not just the Flock cameras, you know, they're being surveilled everywhere by everything. I've got a little phone here that I'm sure it's tracking me," Helmut Schroetter said. This story was reported on-air by a journalist and has been converted to this platform with the assistance of AI. Our editorial team verifies all reporting on all platforms for fairness and accuracy. More News in Oshkosh We cover stories making an impact in Oshkosh. This is your home to stay on top of what is changing in Oshkosh and why it matters to you and your family. We want to hear from you! Click here and tell us what we should be covering in your neighborhood. More News in Oshkosh Meet Your Neighborhood Reporter Hayden Bailey News Weather Sports Contact Us WACY Contact Us WLWK Contact Us Don't Waste Your Money Support Sitemap Do Not Sell My Info Privacy Policy Privacy Center Journalism Ethics Guidelines Terms of Use EEO Careers WGBA FCC Public File WGBA Public File Contact Us WACY FCC Public File WACY Public File Contact Us WLWK FCC Public File WLWK Public File Contact Us FCC Application Accessibility Statement Scripps Media Trust Center Closed Captioning Contact NBC26GreenBay nbc26 © 2026 Scripps Media, Inc Give Light and the People Will Find Their Own Way