Sturgeon Bay discontinues the use of Flock cameras Watch Now Menu Local National Weather Sports Shop Scripps Watch Now Watch Now Close × Live Watch Alerts Search site Go Watch NBC 26 Live The Spot - Green Bay 32 Weather Daily Forecast 3 Degree Guarantee Cameron's Road Show Weather Radar Weather Alerts Weather Maps Closings & Delays Live Cams Storm Tracker News Latest News National News In Your Neighborhood Washington Island Dont Waste Your Money Your Health Matters Contact Us Sports Green Bay Packers Sports Showdown High School Sports Milwaukee Brewers Milwaukee Bucks Olympics Packers on the Clock What’s Brewing Wisconsin Veteran Voices Shows NBC Shows The Kelly Clarkson Show The Spot - Green Bay 32 NBC 26 Neighborhood Connect About Us NBC 26 News Team Contact Us WACY Contact Us TV Listings Contests Support Advertise With Us Gifts For Teens Shop With A Cop Gas Price Tracker Advertise With Us Wellness Experts Trusted Advisor Manage Emails Apps Careers Search NBC26GreenBay nbc26 NBC 26 Neighborhood Connect America 250 Green Bay Fox Cities Oshkosh Fond du Lac Lakeshore Door County In Your Neighborhood What’s Brewing Wisconsin Veteran Voices Contests More + Quick Links + NBC 26 Neighborhood Connect America 250 Green Bay Fox Cities Oshkosh Fond du Lac Lakeshore Door County In Your Neighborhood What’s Brewing Wisconsin Veteran Voices Contests News Local News In Your Neighborhood Door County Sturgeon Bay Actions Facebook Tweet Email Sturgeon Bay discontinues the use of Flock cameras The Sturgeon Bay Common Council voted to end its contract with Flock after two years, citing resident concerns over data privacy and personal liberties. Prev Next Abbey Hamachek A Flock camera pictured in Sturgeon Bay. By: Abbey Hamachek Posted Abbey Hamachek I'm your Lakeshore neighborhood reporter. STURGEON BAY (NBC 26) — The Sturgeon Bay Common Council has decided to discontinue the use of Flock license plate reading cameras following public pushback over privacy concerns. Watch the full broadcast here: Sturgeon Bay discontinues the use of Flock cameras The cameras, which capture the license plates of passing vehicles, have been used in the city for two years. Sturgeon Bay police said the cameras are no longer in use, though it will take a couple of weeks for the company to remove them. Residents pushed to remove the system from the city budget due to trust issues regarding surveillance. "There was a space to come in and challenge it and try to get it off the budget," Michelle Hroma said. "Given the federal administration right now, it’s a scary country to be in and that data could be in the wrong hands and who knows how it can be abused," Hroma said. Matt Peter called the system invasive. "The drawbacks of the Flock system are so detrimental to our personal privacy and our personal liberties that the payoff is just not there," Peter said. Sturgeon Bay Assistant Police Chief Dan Brinkman said the technology has made a real difference in investigations, helping with theft cases and finding missing people. "Is there any technology that is perfect? The answer is no. Does it greatly enhance our abilities? Absolutely. That’s what’s frustrating," Brinkman said. Brinkman noted that outside agencies cannot access the data without permission from Sturgeon Bay police. "I pray to God that we don’t have a child abduction, because then we are back to square one," Brinkman said. Even with the contract ending in Sturgeon Bay, Peter remains concerned about the technology's presence in neighboring communities. "Absolutely. I think that it’s a concern anywhere that Flock is being used," Peter said. This story was reported on-air by a journalist and has been converted to this platform with the assistance of AI. Our editorial team verifies all reporting on all platforms for fairness and accuracy. More News in Sturgeon Bay We cover stories making an impact in Sturgeon Bay. This is your home to stay on top of what is changing in Sturgeon Bay and why it matters to you and your family. We want to hear from you! Click here and tell us what we should be covering in your neighborhood. More News in Sturgeon Bay Sign up for the Breaking News Newsletter and receive up to date information. now signed up to receive the Breaking News Newsletter. Click here to manage all Newsletters Weather Kids News Weather Sports Contact Us WACY Contact Us WLWK Contact Us Don't Waste Your Money Support Sitemap Do Not Sell My Info Privacy Policy Privacy Center Journalism Ethics Guidelines Terms of Use EEO Careers WGBA FCC Public File WGBA Public File Contact Us WACY FCC Public File WACY Public File Contact Us WLWK FCC Public File WLWK Public File Contact Us FCC Application Accessibility Statement Scripps Media Trust Center Closed Captioning Contact NBC26GreenBay nbc26 © 2026 Scripps Media, Inc Give Light and the People Will Find Their Own Way