source: packet.pdf
sha256: facff201c8ad8b82963ed27e3a341b76a07b1ef66b992359c23c65b8df0128ac
pages: 32
ocr_pages: 1
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
January 17, 2023
5:30 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Amourence Lee, Mayor
Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Adam Loraine
Rob Newsom Jr.
AGENDA
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS
WHICH SUSPEND CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE BROWN ACT.
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: January 17, 2023
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 854 9589 8478     Passcode: 700684
Deputy Mayor Lisa Diaz Nash will teleconference into this meeting from:
Hyatt Regency Sacramento 1209 L Street Sacramento, CA 95814
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
 
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
1.
Speed Limit Setting and Program Update
Discuss speed limit setting policies and the plan for how to update speed limits in the City.
CEQA: This informational presentation is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
1 of 32

--- page 2 ---
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 32

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-4661
File ID: 22-7062
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 17, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Speed Limit Setting and Program Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Discuss speed limit setting policies and the plan for how to update speed limits in the City. 
BACKGROUND:
Roadway safety for all users is a top priority for City Council. As such, Public Works has developed short- and long-term 
efforts focused on improving roadway safety for all users. One key aspect of the strategy includes speed enforcement, 
which is an effective tool utilized by police officers to ensure motorists travel at posted speed limits. Analyses from around 
the country suggest that it is an effective approach for reducing traffic collisions. 
The requirements for the enforcement of posted speed limits are described in the California Vehicle Code (CVC). CVC 
Sections 40801 and 40802(a) prohibit police officers from using radar or other electronic devices to measure vehicle 
speeds, which would be used as justification for issuance of citations, if engineering and traffic surveys have not been 
conducted to establish a posted speed limit or if the engineering and traffic survey has expired. As certain engineering and 
traffic surveys have expired, updates are needed for the City to utilize radar and other electronic devices as effective tools 
to measure speeds and enforce limits.  
Staff is proposing to update speed limits at seven priority locations to allow for enforcement as an immediate-term plan. 
The longer-term plan, described in greater detail below, proposes a comprehensive review of City roadways to determine 
where newer CVC changes would allow for lowered speed limits on City streets and where additional engineering and 
traffic surveys may be needed, including a review of the seven locations identified in the immediate-term plan. A citywide 
update would be brought back to Council by the end of 2023. 
California Vehicle Code Requirements for Speed Limit Setting1
The CVC establishes statutory prima facie speed limits (i.e., default limits) for local roadways, school zones, business 
districts, and senior zones at a maximum speed of 25 miles per hour (mph) (CVC Section 22352). For all other roadways, 
the maximum speed limit is 65 mph, or 55 mph on undivided highways (CVC Section 22349). Roadway sections that are 
not included in the statutory prima facie definition must have a posted speed limit that is determined based on an 
engineering and traffic survey as stated in CVC Section 22358(a):
Whenever a local authority determines upon the basis of an engineering and traffic survey that the limit of 65 miles 
per hour is more than is reasonable or safe upon any portion of any street other than a state highway where the 
limit of 65 miles per hour is applicable, the local authority may by ordinance determine and declare a prima facie 
1 All California Vehicle Code sections cited in this section are listed in full in Attachment 2.
3 of 32

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
speed limit of 60, 55, 50, 45, 40, 35, 30, 25, 20, or 15 miles per hour, whichever is found most appropriate to 
facilitate the orderly movement of traffic and is reasonable and safe, which declared prima facie limit shall be 
effective when appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected upon the street.
Once engineering and traffic surveys are conducted, they are valid for five years and can be extended for an additional two 
years based on specific criteria (CVC Section 40802). With California Assembly Bill 43 (AB 43), which was signed by 
Governor Newsom on October 8, 2021, these surveys can now to be extended up to a 14-year timeframe. For the City, the 
last engineering and traffic surveys were completed in 2015, and after seven years have now expired. With AB 43, staff will 
evaluate the criteria needed for an extension. This effort will involve an extensive assessment of the City’s roadways.
Plan to Update Speed Limits
While there are plans for a comprehensive assessment of the City’s roadways, Public Works and Police staff identified 
seven priority roadway segments, shown mapped in Attachment 1, where enforcement would address many staff-
observed and resident-identified concerns. Engineering and traffic surveys were conducted for these segments. As shown 
in Table 1 below, the engineering and traffic survey findings require that speeds increase for the five of the seven locations 
as noted below. While increasing speeds seems counter to the City’s roadway safety strategy, the new speeds would allow 
the Police Department to enforce. As noted earlier, enforcement is an effective approach for reducing traffic collisions. It is 
also important to note that the longer-term roadway safety strategy proposes a multi-faceted approach to roadway safety. 
This is described in further detail below. 
Table 1. Roadway Segments Included in Ordinance
Street Name and Segment
Existing Speed 
(Miles per Hour)
Proposed 
Speed (Miles 
per Hour)
Kehoe Avenue between Norfolk Street and Roberta Drive
25
25
W. Hillsdale Boulevard between 31st Avenue and Del Monte Street
25
30
W. Hillsdale Boulevard between Del Monte Street and Alameda de las Pulgas
25
30
Kehoe Avenue between US-101 northbound ramps and Norfolk Street
30
30
Norfolk Street between Kehoe Avenue and Roberta Drive
25
30
E. Poplar Avenue between N. Delaware Street and N. Amphlett Boulevard
25
30
J. Hart Clinton Drive between Ryder Park and Detroit Drive in both directions
45
50
Roadway Safety Strategy
Over the last few years, the City has emphasized the need to shift toward a safety strategy that moves away from a 
vehicle-centric focus to a multimodal transportation approach that addresses the need of all users. In response, staff has 
focused on developing planning documents that define goals that reflect this shift to the incorporation of multi-modal 
elements in current capital projects, and on changing the day-to-day operations to a more data-driven safety approach. 
Planning efforts have focused on the following: 
•
Draft General Plan Update Circulation Element proposes the implementation of a Vision Zero policy that aims to 
eliminate traffic collisions. 
•
Bicycle Master Plan, a planning document that utilized bicyclists stress levels and roadway characteristics data to 
4 of 32

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
propose a safe, comprehensive, and connected bike network.
•
Local Roadway Safety Plan will identify data-driven safety improvements that can be implemented proactively 
throughout the City. 
•
Transit-Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Study reviewed pedestrian access to transit destinations 
throughout the City and, along with community input, identified improvements to close access gaps and improve 
safety along pedestrian travel routes. 
•
Downtown Parking Garage Pedestrian Safety Project recently completed design and identified localized 
modifications to improve pedestrian access and driver awareness of pedestrians near the City’s parking garages. 
This planning effort is currently pursuing construction funding to complete the identified improvements. 
•
Complete Streets Plan will compile recommendations for numerous City infrastructure plans and provide detailed 
recommendations on holistic, inclusive, and equitable roadway improvements citywide. 
At the project level, Public Works has taken an integrative approach to capital delivery that includes the incorporation of 
pedestrian and bicycle safety features. Street paving projects, for example, are assessed for opportunities to improve 
pedestrian ramps, roadway striping, and bicycle infrastructure to increase connectivity. Request-driven installations of 
pedestrian improvements such as flashing beacons at uncontrolled crosswalks and improved roadway striping have 
resulted in the City installing nearly 50 flashing beacons at intersections around the City in the last five years. Similarly, 
several streets have been identified for implementation of speed cushions to help reduce motorists speed in City 
neighborhoods. Using the CVC, staff assessed proposed citywide school-zone speed limit reductions whereby speed limits 
will be reduced to 15 mph near schools when children are present. 
Additionally, Police led programs work toward increasing safety. Grant money from the California Office of Traffic Safety 
(OTS) provides funding to establish targeted programs that improve safety in the realm of impaired driving, bike and 
pedestrian safety, distracted driving, red light enforcement, etc. Separately from the OTS program, and in response to 
feedback from the community, the Police Department has created a program to conduct targeted pedestrian right-of-way 
compliance throughout the City and work traffic beats to ensure traffic safety issues are addressed. The Police Department 
also actively reviews collision data and structures enforcement efforts to address data trends when they are identified. 
Assembly Bill 43 Considerations
It is also worth noting that recent changes were made to the CVC through AB 43. The intent of AB 43 is to allow for 
consideration of bicyclists and pedestrians and particularly vulnerable users such as children and seniors when evaluating 
and establishing speed limits. Other changes made through AB 43 are the expansion of statutory prima facie speed limits 
of 20 and 25 mph to newly defined “business activity districts” where certain findings are made, and the ability to establish 
15 and 20 mph speed limits under CVC Section 22358. Additional changes made to the required criteria for speed limits to 
be set will go into effect by 2024 and are not yet applicable. 
Next Steps
Staff recommends introducing an ordinance to City Council in February 2023 to declare prima facie speed limits for seven 
roadways as an immediate-term strategy to reduce collisions through speed enforcement. Staff would bring the ordinance 
to City Council again in March 2023 for the second reading and adoption. Following this ordinance adoption for the priority 
locations, staff will update speed limits throughout the City based on the changes to the CVC as a result of AB 43. While 
the proposed ordinance would increase the speed limits in certain segments, these would be re-evaluated based on the 
new CVC provisions and those that will come into effect by 2024. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
If directed by Council, the cost to implement signage for the speed limits is estimated at $10,000 and would be performed 
by the Public Works Department’s Operations and Maintenance group. Sufficient funding is available for these costs in the 
fiscal year 2022-23 operating budget. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational presentation is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity 
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).) 
5 of 32

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Mapped Priority Locations
Att 2 – Referenced California Vehicle Code Sections
STAFF CONTACT
Bethany Lopez, Senior Engineer
blopez@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7313
6 of 32

--- page 7 ---
7 of 32
Poplar Avenue -
Delaware Street to
Humboldt Street
J. Hart Clinton - 
Ryder Park to
Detroit Dr
Kehoe Avenue -
Norfolk Street to
Roberta Drive
Kehoe Avenue -
US-101 ramps
to Norfolk Street
Norfolk Street -
Kehoe Avenue
to Roberta Drive
Hillsdale Blvd. -
31st Avenue to
Del Monte Street
Hillsdale Blvd - 
Del Monte Street to 
Alameda de las Pulgas
Roadway Segments Included in Ordinance

--- page 8 ---
Referenced California Vehicle Code Sections
Section 627
(a) “Engineering and traffic survey,” as used in this code, means a survey of highway and traffic 
conditions in accordance with methods determined by the Department of Transportation for use by 
state and local authorities.
(b) An engineering and traffic survey shall include, among other requirements deemed necessary by the 
department, consideration of all of the following:
(1) Prevailing speeds as determined by traffic engineering measurements.
(2) Accident records.
(3) Highway, traffic, and roadside conditions not readily apparent to the driver.
(c) When conducting an engineering and traffic survey, local authorities, in addition to the factors set 
forth in paragraphs (1) to (3), inclusive, of subdivision (b) may consider all of the following:
(1) Residential density, if any of the following conditions exist on the particular portion of highway 
and the property contiguous thereto, other than a business district:
(A) Upon one side of the highway, within a distance of a quarter of a mile, the contiguous 
property fronting thereon is occupied by 13 or more separate dwelling houses or business 
structures.
(B) Upon both sides of the highway, collectively, within a distance of a quarter of a mile, the 
contiguous property fronting thereon is occupied by 16 or more separate dwelling houses or 
business structures.
(C) The portion of highway is longer than one-quarter of a mile but has the ratio of separate 
dwelling houses or business structures to the length of the highway described in either 
subparagraph (A) or (B).
(2) Safety of bicyclists and pedestrians, with increased consideration for vulnerable pedestrian groups 
including children, seniors, persons with disabilities, users of personal assistive mobility devices, and 
the unhoused.
8 of 32

--- page 9 ---
Section 22349
(a) Except as provided in Section 22356, no person may drive a vehicle upon a highway at a speed 
greater than 65 miles per hour.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person may drive a vehicle upon a two-lane, 
undivided highway at a speed greater than 55 miles per hour unless that highway, or portion thereof, 
has been posted for a higher speed by the Department of Transportation or appropriate local agency 
upon the basis of an engineering and traffic survey. For purposes of this subdivision, the following apply:
(1) A two-lane, undivided highway is a highway with not more than one through lane of travel in each 
direction.
(2) Passing lanes may not be considered when determining the number of through lanes.
(c) It is the intent of the Legislature that there be reasonable signing on affected two-lane, undivided 
highways described in subdivision (b) in continuing the 55 miles-per-hour speed limit, including placing 
signs at county boundaries to the extent possible, and at other appropriate locations.
9 of 32

--- page 10 ---
Section 22352
The prima facie limits are as follows and shall be applicable unless changed as authorized in this code 
and, if so changed, only when signs have been erected giving notice thereof:
(a) Fifteen miles per hour:
(1) When traversing a railway grade crossing, if during the last 100 feet of the approach to the 
crossing the driver does not have a clear and unobstructed view of the crossing and of any traffic on 
the railway for a distance of 400 feet in both directions along the railway. This subdivision does not 
apply in the case of any railway grade crossing where a human flagperson is on duty or a clearly 
visible electrical or mechanical railway crossing signal device is installed but does not then indicate 
the immediate approach of a railway train or car.
(2) When traversing any intersection of highways if during the last 100 feet of the driver’s approach to 
the intersection the driver does not have a clear and unobstructed view of the intersection and of any 
traffic upon all of the highways entering the intersection for a distance of 100 feet along all those 
highways, except at an intersection protected by stop signs or yield right-of-way signs or controlled by 
official traffic control signals.
(3) On any alley.
(b) Twenty-five miles per hour:
(1) On any highway, in any business or residence district unless a different speed is determined by 
local authority or the Department of Transportation under procedures set forth in this code.
(2) When approaching or passing a school building or the grounds thereof, contiguous to a highway 
and posted with a standard “SCHOOL” warning sign, while children are going to or leaving the school 
either during school hours or during the noon recess period. The prima facie limit shall also apply 
when approaching or passing any school grounds which are not separated from the highway by a 
fence, gate, or other physical barrier while the grounds are in use by children and the highway is 
posted with a standard “SCHOOL” warning sign. For purposes of this subparagraph, standard 
“SCHOOL” warning signs may be placed at any distance up to 500 feet away from school grounds.
(3) When passing a senior center or other facility primarily used by senior citizens, contiguous to a 
street other than a state highway and posted with a standard “SENIOR” warning sign. A local 
authority may erect a sign pursuant to this paragraph when the local agency makes a determination 
that the proposed signing should be implemented. A local authority may request grant funding from 
the Active Transportation Program pursuant to Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 2380) of Division 
3 of the Streets and Highways Code, or any other grant funding available to it, and use that grant 
funding to pay for the erection of those signs, or may utilize any other funds available to it to pay for 
the erection of those signs, including, but not limited to, donations from private sources.
10 of 32

--- page 11 ---
Section 22358
(a) Whenever a local authority determines upon the basis of an engineering and traffic survey that the 
limit of 65 miles per hour is more than is reasonable or safe upon any portion of any street other than a 
state highway where the limit of 65 miles per hour is applicable, the local authority may by ordinance 
determine and declare a prima facie speed limit of 60, 55, 50, 45, 40, 35, 30, 25, 20, or 15 miles per 
hour, whichever is found most appropriate to facilitate the orderly movement of traffic and is 
reasonable and safe, which declared prima facie limit shall be effective when appropriate signs giving 
notice thereof are erected upon the street.
(b) This section shall become operative on the date specified in subdivision (c) of Section 22366.
Section 40801
No peace officer or other person shall use a speed trap in arresting, or participating or assisting in the 
arrest of, any person for any alleged violation of this code nor shall any speed trap be used in securing 
evidence as to the speed of any vehicle for the purpose of an arrest or prosecution under this code.
11 of 32

--- page 12 ---
Section 40802
(a) A “speed trap” is either of the following:
(1) A particular section of a highway measured as to distance and with boundaries marked, 
designated, or otherwise determined in order that the speed of a vehicle may be calculated by 
securing the time it takes the vehicle to travel the known distance.
(2) A particular section of a highway with a prima facie speed limit that is provided by this code or by 
local ordinance under paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of Section 22352, or established under Section 
22354, 22357, 22358, or 22358.3, if that prima facie speed limit is not justified by an engineering and 
traffic survey conducted within five years prior to the date of the alleged violation, and enforcement 
of the speed limit involves the use of radar or any other electronic device that measures the speed of 
moving objects. This paragraph does not apply to a local street, road, school zone, senior zone, or 
business activity district, or speed limit adopted under Section 22358.7 or 22358.8.
(b) (1) For purposes of this section, a local street or road is one that is functionally classified as “local” on 
the “California Road System Maps,” that are approved by the Federal Highway Administration and 
maintained by the Department of Transportation. It may also be defined as a “local street or road” if it 
primarily provides access to abutting residential property and meets the following three conditions:
(A) Roadway width of not more than 40 feet.
(B) Not more than one-half of a mile of uninterrupted length. Interruptions shall include official 
traffic control signals as defined in Section 445.
(C) Not more than one traffic lane in each direction.
(2) For purposes of this section, “school zone” means that area approaching or passing a school 
building or the grounds thereof that is contiguous to a highway and on which is posted a standard 
“SCHOOL” warning sign, while children are going to or leaving the school either during school hours 
or during the noon recess period. “School zone” also includes the area approaching or passing any 
school grounds that are not separated from the highway by a fence, gate, or other physical barrier 
while the grounds are in use by children if that highway is posted with a standard “SCHOOL” warning 
sign.
(3) For purposes of this section, “senior zone” means that area approaching or passing a senior center 
building or other facility primarily used by senior citizens, or the grounds thereof that is contiguous to 
a highway and on which is posted a standard “SENIOR” warning sign, pursuant to Section 22352.
(4) For purposes of this section, “business activity district” means a section of highway described in 
subdivision (b) of Section 22358.9 in which a standard 25 miles per hour or 20 miles per hour speed 
limit sign has been posted pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of that section.
(c) (1) When all of the following criteria are met, paragraph (2) of this subdivision shall be applicable and 
subdivision (a) shall not be applicable:
12 of 32

--- page 13 ---
(A) When radar is used, the arresting officer has successfully completed a radar operator course 
of not less than 24 hours on the use of police traffic radar, and the course was approved and 
certified by the Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training.
(B) When laser or any other electronic device is used to measure the speed of moving objects, the 
arresting officer has successfully completed the training required in subparagraph (A) and an 
additional training course of not less than two hours approved and certified by the Commission 
on Peace Officer Standards and Training.
(C) (i) The prosecution proved that the arresting officer complied with subparagraphs (A) and (B) 
and that an engineering and traffic survey has been conducted in accordance with subparagraph 
(B) of paragraph (2). The prosecution proved that, prior to the officer issuing the notice to appear, 
the arresting officer established that the radar, laser, or other electronic device conformed to the 
requirements of subparagraph (D).
(ii) The prosecution proved the speed of the accused was unsafe for the conditions present at 
the time of alleged violation unless the citation was for a violation of Section 22349, 22356, 
or 22406.
(D) The radar, laser, or other electronic device used to measure the speed of the accused meets 
or exceeds the minimal operational standards of the National Highway Traffic Safety 
Administration, and has been calibrated within the three years prior to the date of the alleged 
violation by an independent certified laser or radar repair and testing or calibration facility.
(2) A “speed trap” is either of the following:
(A) A particular section of a highway measured as to distance and with boundaries marked, 
designated, or otherwise determined in order that the speed of a vehicle may be calculated by 
securing the time it takes the vehicle to travel the known distance.
(B) (i) A particular section of a highway or state highway with a prima facie speed limit that is 
provided by this code or by local ordinance under paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of Section 
22352, or established under Section 22354, 22357, 22358, or 22358.3, if that prima facie speed 
limit is not justified by an engineering and traffic survey conducted within one of the following 
time periods, prior to the date of the alleged violation, and enforcement of the speed limit 
involves the use of radar or any other electronic device that measures the speed of moving 
objects:
(I) Except as specified in subclause (II), seven years.
(II) If an engineering and traffic survey was conducted more than seven years prior to the 
date of the alleged violation, and a registered engineer evaluates the section of the 
highway and determines that no significant changes in roadway or traffic conditions have 
occurred, including, but not limited to, changes in adjoining property or land use, 
roadway width, or traffic volume, 14 years.
(ii) This subparagraph does not apply to a local street, road, or school zone, senior zone, or 
business activity district.
13 of 32

--- page 14 ---
Plan for Setting 
Speed Limits
January 17, 2023
Bethany Lopez
Senior Engineer
Public Works
14 of 32

--- page 15 ---
Outline
• Why is it important to set speed limits?
• California Vehicle Code law for setting speed limits
• Immediate-term and long-term strategy
• Questions/discussion
15 of 32

--- page 16 ---
Roadway 
Safety
Ensure roadway users 
follow rules
Ensure roadway users 
are not distracted or 
impaired 
Autonomous 
emergency braking
Seatbelts and airbags
First responders and 
medical care
Incident management
Design roadways for 
the speeds you want 
to achieve
Ensure compliance
with speed limits
Adopt speed limits 
that consider all 
roadway users
16 of 32

--- page 17 ---
Laws and Requirements for 
Setting Speed Limits
17 of 32

--- page 18 ---
CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE

CALIFORNIA
VEHICLE
CODE

2022 EDITION

WEST HARTFORD
LEGAL PUBLISHING

CITY OF

California Manual on Uniform

Traffic Control Devices

FHWA's MUTCD 2009 Edition, including Revisions 1& 2 as amended for use in California.

2014 Edition

; Revision 6 (March 30, 2021)

State of California
California State Transportation Agency
Department of Transportation



--- page 19 ---
Themes for Speed Limit Setting 
• Ensuring speeds are set in a way that do not create violators of the 
majority of drivers (CVC 40801) 
• Speeds should be set near what drivers consider are reasonable and 
prudent (CVC 22350 and CA MUTCD)
• Connection to 85th percentile speed
19 of 32

--- page 20 ---
Terminology – Prima Facie
• Prima facie speed limits
• Default speed limit
• Statutory prima facie speed limits
• Specific speed limits defined for use under specific conditions 
• e.g., 25 mph school zone speed limits
20 of 32

--- page 21 ---
Terminology – 85th Percentile Speed
• Speed at which 85 percent of 
vehicles are traveling at or below
• Also called “prevailing” or 
“critical” speed
• Collected using calibrated radar
• Measures speed of free-flow 
traffic
Source: www.dot.alaska.gov
21 of 32

--- page 22 ---
California Vehicle Code Laws for 
Setting Speed Limits
• Statutory prima facie speed limits in certain areas
• 15 mph – railroad crossings, hills, alleys
• 25 mph – business or residence district, school zones, senior zones
• Statutory prima facie speed limit for all other areas is 55 mph on 
undivided highways and 65 mph everywhere else
• Lower prima facie speed limits can be established with an ETS when 
adopted by ordinance
22 of 32

--- page 23 ---
Engineering and Traffic Survey (ETS)
• For a specific roadway segment, an ETS includes -
• Prevailing speed
• Collision records
• Roadway and traffic conditions “not readily apparent to the driver” 
• CA MUTCD outlines requirements for what posted speed limit to 
recommend
• Recommendation is generally to round prevailing speed to the nearest 5 mph
• ETS is approved by licensed engineer
23 of 32

--- page 24 ---
Immediate- and Long-Term Plan 
to Update Speed Limits
24 of 32

--- page 25 ---
Immediate-Term 
Plan to Update 
Speed Limits
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
• Identify top roadway 
segments in the City
• Adopt an ordinance to 
establish speeds on these 
roadways based on ETS 
findings
• Timeline to enforcement: 
Approximately two 
months to begin 
following ordinance 
adoption
25 of 32

--- page 26 ---
Roadway
Segment
Existing 
Speed Limit
85th
Percentile
Proposed 
Speed Limit
Methodology
Hillsdale Blvd
31st Ave to Del Monte
25
32
30
Hillsdale Blvd
Del Monte to ADLP
25
36
30
J Hart Clinton
Ryder Park to Detroit Dr
45
53
50
Kehoe
US-101 ramp to Norfolk
30
34
30
Kehoe
Norfolk to Roberta
25
32
25
Norfolk
Kehoe to Roberta
25
36
30
Poplar
Delaware to Amphlett
25
36
30
Proposed Speed Limits
26 of 32

--- page 27 ---
Long-Term Plan to Update Speed Limits
• Identify all locations where statutory prima facie speed limits may 
apply
• Apply AB 43 and AB 1938 changes
• E.g., business activity districts
• Complete ETS’ for all locations other locations (will include review 
of seven priority locations)
• Adopt new ordinance for speed limits city-wide
27 of 32

--- page 28 ---
Assembly Bills 43 and 1938
Changes Currently in Effect
• Allows consideration of bike and ped safety in ETS recommendation
• Allows expanded speed limit considerations of 15 and 20 mph
• Expands lowered speed limits in a “business activity district” similar to the allowance 
in school zones
• Allows for ETS to remain valid for greater lengths of time where certain findings are 
made
• Allows for retention of currently adopted or immediately prior adopted speed limit 
where certain findings are made
Changes Applicable in June 2024
• 5 mph speed limit reduction beyond the findings of an ETS in certain locations
28 of 32

--- page 29 ---
SchoolZone 
Speed Limits
• Resolution adopted in December 
2021 to implement school-zone 
speed limits for all schools
• Establishes 15 mph speeds within 
500’ of schools and 25 mph from 
500-1000’ of schools
• Will result in lowered speeds on 
16 miles of city roadways during 
school hours
• Overlaps with two of the seven 
priority locations
15 mph zones
25 mph zones
29 of 32

--- page 30 ---
Feb. 2023
Seven priority locations: 
Ordinance introduction
Mar. 2023
Seven priority locations: 
Ordinance adoption
Spring 2023
Citywide long-term plan:        
Begin background research
Winter 2024
Citywide long-term plan: 
Ordinance adoption
Jan. 2023
Phase 1 – Bid PS&E
Mar. 2023
Phase 1 –
Award contract
June 2023
Phase 1 –
Complete construction
Feb. 2023
Phase 2 and 3 –
Begin PS&E design
Fall 2023
Phase 2 and 3 –
Bid PS&E
Winter 2024
Phase 2 and 3 –
Begin construction
Citywide Speed 
Limit Update
School Zone 
Speed Limit 
Implementation
Timeline
30 of 32

--- page 31 ---
Council Feedback
• Recommendation is for staff to proceed with implementing speed 
limit changes at priority locations
• Continue with long-term safety strategy development and 
implementation
• Discussion/questions
31 of 32

--- page 32 ---
Thank You
Bethany Lopez
Senior Engineer
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicworks
32 of 32