source: packet.pdf
sha256: 874910c2c112c5b072b87061865143442178729ec2f15df387f3eb85bbc5c1f6
pages: 18
ocr_pages: 9
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Senior Citizens Commission 
January 11, 2021
4:00 PM
REMOTE
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Monika Lee, Chair
Lillian Barden, Vice Chair
Irene Bluth
Ellen R. Wang
Mary Webb
PACKET
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO 
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN‐PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: January 11, 2021
To join via telephone: (408) 638‐0968
Conference ID: 831 3566 3601         Passcode: 546893
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call 
Pledge of Allegiance
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Approval of Minutes
Approve the Senior Citizens Commission Regular Meeting Minutes of November 9, 2020.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the Commission at this time.
State law prevents Commission from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for
follow up.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
Update on Age Friendly Cities Initiative "Safe Walking Routes for Seniors.. and Everybody"
Bob Palacio, Community Services Manager and Vince Siminitus, member of the Age Friendly Cities Task
Force, will provide an update on Phase 1, Project 1 of the Age Friendly Cities Initiative "Safe Walking Routes
for Seniors... and Everybody."
3.
Update on Phase 1 Project 2 of the Age Friendly Cities Initiative "Coordination and Communication about
local/regional Senior Services and Events"
Bob Palacio, Community Services Manager and Commissioner Monika Lee will update the commissioners on
Phase 1, Project 2 of the Age Friendly Cities Initiative "Coordination and Communication about local/regional
1 of 18

--- page 2 ---
Senior Services and Events."
4.
Discussion of 20/21 Vision Task Force Subcommittees
Bob Palacio, Community Services Manager will provide background and facilitate a discussion of new 20/21
Vision Task Force subcommittees.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS FROM COMMISSIONERS AND STAFF
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments and requests for future agenda items.
ADJOURNMENT
­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­
Agendas are posted on the City's website by the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: seniorcommissionmailbox@cityofsanmateo.org
until 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting.
All attendees are muted by default. To speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638‐0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. 
To indicate you want to provide public comment, press *9 to raise your hand. 
When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Parks and Recreation Administrative Office at (650) 522‐7400 or by email at
parksandrecreation@cityofsanmateo.org
Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this
meeting. 
2 of 18

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4088
TO:
Senior Citizens Commission
FROM:
Sheila Canzian
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
January 11, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Approval of Minutes
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the Senior Citizens Commission Regular Meeting Minutes of November 9, 2020.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
STAFF CONTACT
Giovana Orozco, Administrative Technician
gorozco@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7400
3 of 18

--- page 4 ---
Senior Citizens Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 11/09/20 
Page 1 
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
Irene Bluth, Chair 
Lillian Barden 
Monika Lee 
Mary Webb 
Ellen R. Wang 
City of San Mateo  
Regular Meeting Minutes 
Senior Citizens Commission 
Senior Center  
2645 Alameda de las Pulgas 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
  
Monday, November 9, 2020 
Remote 4:00 PM 
Regular Meeting 
  
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency.  
 
Pledge of Allegiance 
 
Roll Call 
 
 
Remote: Commissioners Present: Barden, Lee, Wang, Webb  
Commissioners Absent: Bluth 
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
 
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without 
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.  
 
1. Approval of Minutes 
Approve the Senior Citizens Commission Regular Meeting Minutes of September 14, 2020.  
Motion Carried 4-0. 
Moved: Barden,  Seconded: Webb 
Ayes:  
Barden, Lee, Wang, Webb 
Noes:  
None 
 
END OF CONSENT CALENDAR 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
There were no speakers. 
 
NEW BUSINESS 
2. 
Redefining Aging- Villages of San Mateo County  
Eric Hanson, Villages of San Mateo County Board Member and Mid Peninsula Chair, gave a presentation 
on the services provided by the Villages and their important role in San Mateo County. Commissioners posed 
questions and offered comments regarding the funding sources, memberships, and networking possibilities. Bob 
Palacio, Community Services Manager, commented that the department is looking forward to working with the 
Villages of San Mateo County on projects for the Age Friendly Cities Initiative. 
 
3. 
Age Friendly Cities Initiative Application Approval    
Bob Palacio, Community Services Manager, updated commissioners on the approval of the application submitted 
to AARP and the World Health Organization. He informed commissioners that City of San Mateo is posted on the 
4 of 18

--- page 5 ---
Senior Citizens Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 11/09/20 
Page 2 
AARP website as an approved City. He communicated to commissioners that there is a meeting of the San Mateo 
County's Age Friendly Community Initiative on Thursday November 12, 2020 where Vince Siminitus, member of 
the Age Friendly Cities Task Force, along with a member of San Mateo City Council will present some background 
on the projects the City is focusing on. Bob updated commissioners on the work that has begun, with the help of 
the San Mateo Public Works Department, on the Phase One Project: Safe Walking Routes. Commissioner Barden 
asked if it would be possible to include something on the signage stating that the work being done is in part due 
to the Age Friendly Cities Initiative. Announcements regarding the approval will be released on the City’s 
Newsletter, by CAFÉ, and on the Daily Journal. Commissioners posed questions and offered comments.  
 
4. 
Upcoming Senior Programs and Events 
Staff provided an update on all current and upcoming senior programs. Including but not limited to the Get 
Around program, “Grab and Go” lunches, SASH (Shopping Assistance for Seniors/Adults that are Homebound), 
and virtual programs. Commissioner’s asked about the funding for Get Around Program as well as the lunch 
program, and the promotion of services and programs.  
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
• 
Commissioner Lee asked for an update on the 2020 Vision subcommittees. Bob Palacio, Community Services 
Manager, explained that the focus has shifted to safely reopening and reinstating in person programming and 
that staff would be reaching out to commissioners to set up times to meet.  
 
ADJOURNMENT 
The meeting adjourned at 5:00 p.m. 
 
 
SUBMITTED BY:  
 
 
 
Giovana Orozco, Recording Secretary 
 
 
Giovana Orozco  
5 of 18

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 21-4138
TO:
Senior Citizens Commission
FROM:
Sheila Canzian
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
January 11, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Update on Age Friendly Cities Initiative "Safe Walking Routes for Seniors.. and Everybody"
RECOMMENDATION:
Bob Palacio, Community Services Manager and Vince Siminitus, member of the Age Friendly Cities Task Force will provide 
an update on Phase 1, Project 1 of the Age Friendly Initiative "Safe Walking Routes for Seniors... and Everybody."
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - AARP-NAFC-Member-Application City of San Mateo Final 1 
STAFF CONTACT
Bob Palacio, Community Services Manager
bpalacio@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7403
6 of 18

--- page 7 ---
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, California 94403-1338
Telephone (650) 522-7048
FAX: (650) 522-7041
www.cityofsanmateo.org

OFFICE OF THE MAYOR

Otc
STP MPon ATED

48

September 24, 2020

Rafi Nazarians

Associate State Director, AARP California
200 S. Los Robles Ave., Suite 400
Pasadena, CA 91101-2423

Dear Mr. Nazarians,

On behalf of the City of San Mateo, | whole-heartedly support our application to the AARP Network of Age Friendly
States and Communities, the United States affiliate of the World Health Organization’s (WHO) International initiative
to encourage age-friendly community efforts. The San Mateo City Council unanimously approved the application at
its September 21, 2020 meeting. The City of San Mateo maintains a strong commitment to serving the various needs
of our community, and as an Age-Friendly City we will continue to support the health, vibrancy, and livability of our
community for all ages.

Located in the heart of the Bay Area’s peninsula and with our over 65 population being our most rapidly growing age
demographic, we are committed to Age-Friendly City goals to ensure that older adults in our community receive
respect, dignity, and involvement in all aspects of our City's future.

San Mateo has built local collaborative partnerships within the County of San Mateo by sharing resources and
coordinating activities to move the Age-Friendly Initiative forward in this region. We formed an Age-Friendly
Community Task Force comprised primarily of older adults from the community that are committed to:

¢ Conducting a baseline community assessment on the needs of older adults.
¢ Establishing a three-year action plan to address the identified needs.
e Developing tools to measure the progress of the action plan.
We look forward to working with AARP-WHO as we work towards increasing the Age-Friendliness of our
City to provide its residents with the tools and resources they need to remain as independent and vitally involved

with their community as possible.

Sincerely,

oC atl
Joe Goet Mayor, City of San Mateo, CA

cc San Mateo Age Friendly Cities Task Force

7 of 18


--- page 8 ---
_Membership Application

AARP _ To join the AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities

Real Possibilities ang the World Health Organization Global Network of Age-Friendly Cities and Communities

e If you have questions while completing this form, please email livable@aarp.org
e If you need additional space for answering the questions you may add an additional sheet of paper

Section 1: COMMUNITY DETAILS APPLICATION SUBMISSION DATE: To Be Determined
NAME OF THE COMMUNITY: City of San Mateo, CA

STATE: California

POPULATION SIZE: 104,983

PERCENTAGE OF RESIDENTS ABOVE THE AGE OF 60: 17%

NAME AND TITLE OF THE ELECTED OFFICIAL SIGNING THE OFFICIAL COMMITMENT: Mayor Joe Goethals
OFFICE ADDRESS OF THE SIGNER: 330 West 20" Ave, San Mateo, CA 94403

igoethals@cityofsanmateo.org; (650) 522-7522 ext. 6264

Section 2: COMMUNITY CONTACT for the AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities
e The community contact is the local staff member or volunteer who is primarily responsible for carrying out the
community-level work — it is not the responsible AARP staff member.

NAME: Bob Palacio

POSITION: Community Services Manager, City of San Mateo
EMAIL ADDRESS: bpalacio@cityofsanmateo.org
TELEPHONE NUMBER: (650) 522-7400

Please describe the named person’s role in the city or community's age-friendly initiative:

pee Palacio, Community Services Manager, City of San Mateo Parks and Recreation

The person named above agrees to be subscribed to the AARP Livable Communities Weekly e-Newsletter, which is one of
the primary ways we share useful news and resources. To add additional subscribers, type their names and email addresses
into below. Once this application is processed, a subscription confirmation message will be sent so the individual can
confirm that they want to subscribe. To subscribe today, follow the link above or visit AARP.org/Livable-Subscribe.

011019 Membership Application: AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities — Page 1

8 of 18


--- page 9 ---
Sheila Canzian, scanzian@cityofsanmateo.org
Linda Burroughs, kendrixburroughs @ icloud.com
Vince Siminitus, simin@ pacbell.net

Monika Lee, monikapleyer@ gmail.com

Winnie Yu, winniey@ selfhelpelderly.org
Shawne O’Connell, soconnell@ kimochi-inc.org
Wes Taoka, sanmateojacc@ gmail.com

Amber Shong, als hong@ cityofsanmateo.org
Carolyn Shavel, shavel@cityofsanmateo.orq

NOTE: The application continues on the next page.

011019 Membership Application: AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities — Page 1

9 of 18


--- page 10 ---
Section 3: COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES, ENGAGEMENTS and COLLABORATIONS

1) Please provide a brief summary of the community policies, programs and services that are targeted toward
older people and how the community plans to become more age-friendly.

he City of San Mateo California is committed to providing services and programs for older and disabled adults as
well as collaborating with local and regional non-profit, public and for-profit organizations and businesses that can
maintain and enhance the quality of older adults’ lives, reduce their isolation, and promote their socialization. The
City’s services for older adults are managed by the City’s Parks and Recreation Department. Services are provided at
[the San Mateo Senior Center, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Recreation Center, Beresford Recreation Center, and in
partnership with Self-Help for the Elderly at the Central Park Center. The San Mateo Senior Center offers a nutritious
hot lunch program every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Tuesday’s and Thursday’s hot lunch is served at the
Dr.MLK Jr. Community Center. In addition to meals, the Senior Center hosts a vibrant mix of activities. On any given
day at the Senior Center, there can be a dozen things happening from yoga classes to a history seminar, from bingo

0 billiards or mahjong. The Parks & Recreation Department offers residents age 60 plus a safe and affordable means
of transportation. With the Get Around! Senior Rides Program, participants can schedule their rides in advance or on-
demand, 24 hours a day/7 days a week. Cost is $5.00 each way or $2.00 if eligible for the City’s recreation fee
assistance program. The city’s Recreation Fee Assistance program is for participants of the City’s Park and Recreation
Programs who are living on low-incomes that meet income eligibility requirements. This assistance is available to
discount the daily lunch fee or many of the hundreds of classes and programs offered by the department. The senior
center staff, in collaboration with a variety of local agencies, offers a variety of other services, including the health
insurance counseling and advocacy program (HICAP), shopping assistance for Seniors who are Homebound (SASH),
assistance with using NCOA’s web-based Benefits Check-Up program, a Latino Support Group and staff who can
assist with identifying needed services available from the local field-of-aging network.

[The City of San Mateo is also one of the few cities in the Bay Area that has an Advisory Senior Citizens Commission to
the City Council. The Parks and Recreation Department works closely with the Senior Citizens Commission as they
provide valuable feedback on senior programs, projects, and initiatives. The Senior Citizens Commission is made up
lof 5 City of San Mateo residents selected by the city council.

In the winter of 2020, San Mateo launched an Age Friendly Community initiative by recruiting a diverse task force of
local residents with a strong commitment to improving the lives of San Mateo’s older adult residents. This group is
comprised of Linda Burroughs, Task Force Chair and the Executive Director of Mid-Peninsula Villages; Sheila Canzian,
City Parks and Recreation Director; Bob Palacio, City Parks and Recreation Supervisor; Vince Siminitus, long-time City
advocate; Monika Lee, member of the County of San Mateo Commission on Aging; Wes Taoka, Executive Director,
apanese-American Community Center; Winnie Yu, Program Manager for Self Help for the Elderly, Inc.; Brenda
Brown, Project Director of the local SCSEP (Employment) Program at Peninsula Family Service and Shawne O'Connell,
Program Manager at Kimochi, Inc.

—

2) How will the community engage and involve older people in the process of becoming a more age-friendly?

After the City of San Mateo Age Friendly Community (AFC) Task Force formed in January 2020, they recruited over
50 diverse local older adult residents to participate in five focus groups. Each participant provided input on what
they thought were unmet needs in each of the 8 domains of age friendly communities. The first focus group was
comprised of older adults age 71 plus, the second focus group was comprised of persons age 55-70, the third focus
group consisted of Latinx seniors, the fourth focus group consisted of Asian seniors and the fifth and final focus
group was comprised of service providers from local non-profit and public agencies. The City of San Mateo AFC Task
Force used this important grassroots feedback as a basis for choosing four inaugural age friendly projects. (See
below in Section #3 for details.)

011019 Membership Application: AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities — Page 3

10 of 18



--- page 11 ---
3) Briefly describe the mechanisms the community has or is planning to put in place to facilitate collaborative
planning and implementation between different agencies and departments.

The City of San Mateo’s Age Friendly Community initiative was launched with the assistance and guidance of the Center for
Age-Friendly Excellence (CAFE), a project of the non-profit Los Altos Community Foundation. Through a contract with the San
Mateo County Department of Aging and Adult Services, CAFE is assisting the City of San Mateo as well as Foster City and
Colma this year to initiate and develop AFC initiatives rooted in a thoughtful planning and implementation process.

After reviewing feedback gathered from virtual focus group discussions and one-on-one telephone surveys with local
residents about unmet needs of older adults that relate to the eight domains of age-friendly communities in addition to Task
Force discussions, the three age-friendly domains that emerged as areas most in need of attention were Transportation,
Communication-Information, Respect and Social Inclusion.

Primarily as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, Task Force members and City staff plan to develop and implement
projects that address these three domains in two phases. During the pandemic, two “Phase 1” projects have been chosen
that can be accomplished while the pandemic continues. Two additional “Phase 2” projects will be explored but not
developed and implemented until the pandemic is brought under better control and the City and Task Force have the
experience of developing and implementing the Phase 1 projects in collaboration with community partners.

PHASE 1 PROJECTS

Project 1: Safe Walking Routes for Seniors — and Everybody!

e Main Domains Addressed — Transportation and Outdoor Spaces and Buildings

e Other Domains Impacted — Social Participation and Civic Engagement

e Unmet Need Addressed — During many of the focus group discussions and one-on-one interviews, concerns
were expressed regarding sidewalk conditions in some areas of the city. Cracked and raised sidewalks
create trip hazards for seniors and people with walkers or wheelchairs. Additional concerns were
inadequate time to cross intersections, insufficient flashing signals at key locations and lack of enforcement
of violations of pedestrian rights of way. All of these issues contribute to deterring seniors from walking for
business needs, exercise and socialization.

e Project Duration — This is both short and long term. The first year will be devoted to identifying the highest
priority pedestrian safety risks for the largest concentrations of seniors in the city, followed by the move to
address them within the City’s resources. Beyond that, this project enhances the City’s currently existing
“Safe Sidewalks” Program and other City programs by integrating into the annual planning and budgeting
process a senior-focused prioritization of repairs and safety enhancements.

e Primary Focus: Identify the specific highest-value walking routes for the largest concentrations of seniors
and the hazardous conditions on them. Repair hazardous sidewalks on those routes ahead of their normal
repair schedule and critically evaluate needs for signal timing changes, flashing lights, new signage and
targeted enforcement or educational efforts on those same routes where warranted, reducing risks and
encouraging more walking.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY: Safe Walking Routes for Seniors — and Everybody!

The “Safe Walking Routes for Seniors — and Everybody!” project would accelerate the repair of sidewalks that
represent tripping and falling hazards for seniors caused by sidewalks that are lifted, cracked, blocked, or
otherwise damaged. Pedestrian safety concerns came up frequently in age-friendly focus groups and interviews,
primarily under the Transportation and Outdoor Spaces and Buildings domains. As designed, it also addresses
social participation and civic participation gaps because seniors often walk with a partner for business or
pleasure and provides opportunities for volunteer participation and leadership. The current state of our

011019 Membership Application: AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities — Page 4

11 of 18


--- page 12 ---
sidewalks is not only a community-wide safety hazard - it is a deterrent to walking by residents of all ages, not
just seniors. The project also incorporates addressing other pedestrian safety issues as described below.

This project initially involves identifying and mapping major walking routes from high concentrations of senior
housing to targeted destinations frequented by seniors, such as nearby shopping districts, health care facilities,
senior centers, libraries, places of worship, government offices, etc. Volunteers recruited from existing
volunteer-centric groups such as Neighborhood Watch, Homeowner Associations, Senior Centers, YMCA/fitness
centers, etc. will walk these routes (ideally with local seniors), document, photograph, categorize and prioritize
hazardous conditions and exact locations for the city per a predefined protocol. Data can be input directly into
a newly developed app or captured on a paper form for later input into an existing or new database or
spreadsheet. For sidewalks, the data would also include descriptive categories such as damage type (lifting,
e.g.), cause (tree roots, e.g.) and risk level extent (“not usable without extreme care”, e.g.). Where traffic lights
exist along these same routes, timing can be documented and visibility and other risk conditions, such as
inadequate lighting, noted for follow-up evaluation.

This system could generate priorities based on pre-established criteria. Results would be integrated into the
city’s existing Sidewalk Repair Program, which currently addresses repair needs on a rotating 15-year cycle
through its neighborhoods. This project accelerates these highest-risk conditions to be fixed outside that
schedule, something already allowed by the program. City costs would be controllable due to use of volunteers
to do the large majority of the up-front mapping, identification and prioritization work and the fact that many
of the prioritized sidewalk repairs are the property owner’s financial responsibility. The city would use its
existing Public Works infrastructure and processes to notify owners responsible and enforce repairs. Where
responsibility is the City’s or shared, it would allocate available funds to address the highest priority conditions,
either as a stand-alone project or by integrating it into cycled neighborhood-wide bids. Measurement of
progress is as straightforward as reporting the number of specifically identified conditions corrected outside the
normal neighborhood cycle on an annual basis. For other safety-related hazardous conditions or opportunities
for enhancement can be similarly reported to the responsible Public Works or other city department. Ideally
coordination across departments would include addressing ALL identified conditions on a specific route, yielding
a completely “Safe Senior Route”.

This project will be informed by reviewing similar age friendly projects in other communities and will, of course,
be implemented through collaboration with City Staff, CalTrans, local property owners and a dedicated and
properly trained cadre of volunteers.

Project 2: Coordination of Communication about local/regional Senior Services and Events

e@ Main Domains Addressed — Community and Health Services
Other Domains Impacted — Social Participation, Respect and Social Inclusion, and Civic Engagement and
Employment.

e Unmet Need Addressed — San Mateo and the surrounding communities provide a great number of services that
may be of interest to seniors but the providers of these services do not communicate well with each other and the
potential users of these services have a difficult time learning about them and using them.

e Project Duration — Two years to test various strategies with community partners. The most successful efforts will
continue after that point.

e Primary Focus: This project intends to increase access by older adults and their family members/friends to
information about non-profits, community groups or faith-based organizations that provide services to seniors. In
addition, it will develop strategies to organize the dissemination of information in ways that have not been attempted
before in this community. Lastly, a priority will be to encourage coordination among various providers of services and

011019 Membership Application: AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities — Page 5

12 of 18


--- page 13 ---
activities for San Mateo’s older adult residents.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY: Coordination of Communication about local/regional Senior Services and Events

Non-profit, public and for-profit organizations and businesses based in San Mateo and the surrounding
communities provide a great number of services that may be of interest to seniors, but the potential users of
these services have a difficult time learning about them and using them. In addition, service providers often
don’t communicate with one another, thus missing opportunities for reciprocal referrals and collaboration. This
issue was highlighted frequently in age-friendly focus groups and interviews, primarily under the
Communication and Information and Community Support and Health Services domains. It also touches on many
of the other domains as well because communication and information about them is also widely needed based
on the input from focus group and one-on-one interview participants.

The City’s Age Friendly Community Task Force and their collaborative partners will establish a program that: (1)
assembles existing information about organizations and services;, (2) organizes a newsletter, periodic meetings,
or other interaction among the organizations to exchange information, experiences, and explore ways to
collaborate;, (3) encourages and assists the organizations in reaching out to older adult residents with
information about available services, and; (4) utilizes best practice strategies of promoting services for older
adult residents of San Mateo that include all forms of media and methods that have been successfully used by
similar projects undertaken by other age-friendly communities.

This project will be informed by best practice research of similar efforts by other aging service networks and age
friendly communities. It will be implemented through a collaboration that will focus on bringing together non-
profit senior service programs/organizations, the County Department of Aging Services, City Staff, City of San
Mateo Senior Citizens’ Commission, the SM County Commission on Aging as well as other partners, as needed,
such as the Chamber of Commerce, local businesses and other community organizations.

PHASE 2 PROJECTS UNDER CONSIDERATION AFTER PHASE 1 PROJECTS ARE
UNDERWAY

PROJECT IDEA TO EXPLORE FURTHER FOR PHASE TWO: Intergenerational Program(s)

e@ Main Domains Addressed — Respect and Social Inclusion

e Other Domains Impacted — Social Participation, Civic Engagement and Employment, and Communication
and Information.

e Unmet Need Addressed — The desire for positive, meaningful and constructive Intergenerational connection
between seniors and young people in the community was apparent during many of the virtual focus group
and one-on-one phone survey discussions.

e Project Duration — This project will be considered for development and implementation after the first two
“Phase 1” projects are underway and after the pandemic has abated to a point where it will be safer to
bring older adults and young people together in person. During Phase 1, the City and Task Force will do a
community scan to learn about existing intergenerational programs in San Mateo and nearby communities
and best practices from similar projects developed by other age-friendly communities.

e Primary Focus — The City of San Mateo and the Task Force is aware that there are a variety of worthwhile
approaches to create positive, meaningful and constructive opportunities for intergenerational connections.
Best practice program ideas will be reviewed as a way to learn from other age friendly cities that have
chosen to develop similar projects in this area. In addition, we will identify existing successful
intergenerational programs that already exist in our city and nearby communities. An organic and revenue

011019 Membership Application: AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities — Page 6

13 of 18


--- page 14 ---
neutral way to begin an “age-friendly effort with regards to intergenerational (IG) connectedness would be
to include existing IG programs as partners and collaborators in our Phase 1 Project: “Coordination of
Communication about Local/Regional Senior Services and Events” as a way to encourage our older adult
residents to participate in them and to increase intergenerational activities in the City of San Mateo as well
as other nearby cities.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY: Intergenerational Programs

As a “Phase 2” project, a final decision will be made on whether or not to proceed on developing a new
intergenerational (IG) program when the pandemic is more under control and older adults are less at risk of
becoming infected with the Covid-19 virus. In addition, the City and Task Force wants to assess what is required
to get the two “Phase 1” projects developed and implemented in collaboration with local stake holders before
embarking on any further projects as a way to ensure they are provided with adequate support. With that said,
existing intergenerational programs in San Mateo and nearby communities will be included in the “Phase 1”
project that will focus on “Coordination of Communication about Local/Regional Senior Services and Events.” In
that scenario, the goal would be to increase the number of older adult and younger residents of San Mateo
involved with local intergenerational programs. In addition, when time permits during Phase 1, the City and
Task Force will explore promising ideas and projects in the field of intergenerational programs for later
consideration by inviting experts in the field to meet with them and by reviewing descriptions of successful IG
programs.

PROJECT IDEA TO EXPLORE FURTHER FOR PHASE TWO: AGE FRIENDLY BUSINESS
RECOGNITION/CERTIFICATION

e Main Domains Addressed —Respect and Social Inclusion, Civic Participation and Employment

e Other Domains Impacted - Community and Health Support

e Unmet Need Addressed — Seniors don’t know where to go or who they can rely on for various personal,
business and social needs.

e Project Duration — This project will be considered for development and implementation after the first two
“Phase 1” projects are underway and after the pandemic has abated to a point where local businesses and
organizations will be fully operational. During phase 1, the City and Task Force will review similar projects
developed by other age-friendly communities.

e Primary Focus: Implement an “Age-friendly Business” certification program in partnership with the City’s
Chamber of Commerce. Seniors will preferentially frequent such businesses because the physical
environment, positive personnel interactions and incentives provided assure a high level of respectful
engagement and service.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY: Age Friendly Business Recognition/Certification

As a “Phase 2” project, a final decision will not be made on whether or not to proceed on developing this
project until the pandemic is under control and most businesses and organizations can return to full operation.
In addition, the City and Task Force wants to assess what is required to get the two “Phase 1” projects
developed and implemented in collaboration with local stake holders before beginning any other projects as a
way to ensure they are provided with adequate support. When time permits during Phase 1, the City and Task
Force will explore similar projects by other age-friendly communities and invite their project leaders to meet
with the Task Force so they can learn how other communities have gone about doing this.

011019 Membership Application: AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities — Page 7

14 of 18


--- page 15 ---
Section 4: NETWORK MEMBERSHIP

e Your answers to the following questions will help us complete your membership in the global age-friendly network and
better enable us to understand how to support the network.

4) How do you hope to contribute to the AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities and the
World Health Organization Global Network of Age-Friendly Communities?

The City of San Mateo and the San Mateo AFC Task Force is very interested in contributing to and learning
from other AFC member communities that is part of this rapidly growing movement around the United
States and world. As with most other communities, the City of San Mateo’s older adult population will
continue to grow beyond its current level of 17%. The City believes that a collaborative and asset based
community development (ABCD) approach that engages community members of all ages,

businesses, organizations and our region’s field of aging network in partnership with our city to look at
ways to create a more livable community for all of our residents including those over 60 is absolutely
essential. Not only does it take a Village to raise a child, it also takes a village to support the elders who
live among us in ways that provide a variety of opportunities to experience a good old age.

5) What motivated your community to join the AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities and
the World Health Organization Global Network of Age-Friendly Communities?

The City of San Mateo and their AFC Task Force understands that the expected steady increase in the
number of older adult residents beyond the current level of 17% requires us to do our part in exploring
and implementing new and cost-effective ways to create a milieu that enables them to thrive and not only
“age-in-place” but, more importantly, to “age-in-community.” We are grateful for this opportunity to join,
learn from and contribute to a like-minded network of age-friendly States and Communities that share
these same goals.

6) Provide a digital file or link of a logo or other image that represents your community and for which you
have reprint rights. The image resolution should be at least 72 dpi. As an example of an image, here's ours:

011019 Membership Application: AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities — Page 8

15 of 18


--- page 16 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 21-4139
TO:
Senior Citizens Commission
FROM:
Bob Palacio
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
January 11, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Update on Phase 1 Project 2 of the Age Friendly Cities Initiative "Coordination and Communication about local/regional 
Senior Services and Events"
RECOMMENDATION:
Bob Palacio, Community Services Manager and Commissioner Monika Lee will update the Commissioners on Phase 1 
Project 2 of the Age Friendly Cities Initiative: "Coordination and Communication about local/regional Senior Services and 
Events."
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
STAFF CONTACT
Bob Palacio, Community Services Manager
bpalacio@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7403
16 of 18

--- page 17 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 21-4140
TO:
Senior Citizens Commission
FROM:
Sheila Canzian
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
January 11, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Discussion of 20/21 Vision Task Force Subcommittees
RECOMMENDATION:
Bob Palacio, Community Services Manager will provide background and facilitate a discussion of new 20/21 Vision Task 
Force subcommittees. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Senior Services Task Force Groups
STAFF CONTACT
Bob Palacio, Community Services Manager
bpalacio@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7403
17 of 18

--- page 18 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Parks and Recreation Department
330 WEST 20TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA  94403-1388
TELEPHONE:  (650) 522-7400
FAX:  (650) 522-7401
Senior Services Task Force Sub-Committee Groups
1. Re-entering/Re-opening the Senior Center
This committee will look at the programs and events currently (pre-
Covid- 19) happening at the Senior Center and then look at the future 
of the Center once we are able to re-open. What programs will come 
back, what events should we keep? Are there new ideas that have 
come out of all this sheltering in place that we can continue to use as 
we move forward. 
2. Age Friendly – Outreach/Resources
This committee will assist with the Age Friendly Task Force to work 
on Phase One Project Two. This project is the Coordination of 
Communication about Local/Regional Senior Services and Events. 
Individuals on this committee will assist with helping the different 
providers in the City of San Mateo to communicate with each other as 
well as the citizens they serve. 
3. San Mateo Senior Center 31st Anniversary Celebration
This committee will work with Staff to begin the planning of the 31st 
Anniversary Celebration when the Center is allowed to open and large 
groups are allowed to gather. Being able to commemorate the last 
three decades, and celebrating all the changes in programs, patrons, 
staff and the facility. 
 
18 of 18