Berkeley City Council District 1: Where candidates stand on key issues Close ♥ Donate Newsletters Submit a tip About How we work Advertise Careers Sign In Search for: Search Nosh Arts Business City Community Public Safety Housing Neighborhoods Education Obituaries Opinion Events Latest news Nosh Features Nosh Guides New Restaurants Nosh Newsletter Berkeleyside Instagram TikTok Facebook Bluesky Flickr Close Nosh New restaurants Bites Nosh features Arts Business City City COVID-19 Crime & Safety Policing Homicide Shootings Traffic Safety Events Housing Neighborhoods Schools Obituaries Opinion Skip to content Instagram TikTok Facebook Bluesky Flickr Berkeleyside Nonprofit news. Free for all, funded by readers. ♥ Donate Newsletters Submit a tip About How we work Advertise Careers Sign In ♥ Donate Menu Sign In Nosh Arts Business City Community Public Safety Housing Neighborhoods Education Obituaries Opinion Events Latest news Nosh Features Nosh Guides New Restaurants Nosh Newsletter Berkeleyside Open Search Search for: Search Nosh Logo (Highlight Menu) Nosh Posted in City Berkeley City Council District 1: Where candidates stand on housing, Hopkins, Flock and more The Northwest Berkeley district is where many of the city’s most contentious debates play out on the ground. There’s a crowded field of five vying to represent it. by Nico Savidge Oct. 7, 2026, 1:09 p.m. Oct. 7, 2026, 3:33 p.m. Share this: Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Print (Opens in new window) Print Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on Nextdoor (Opens in new window) Nextdoor Add Berkeleyside as a Preferred Source on Google so you never miss our reporting when you search. The five candidates to represent Northwest Berkeley on the City Council are (clockwise from top left) Ross Bernet, Laura Babitt, Moni Gangopadhyay, Daria Wrubel and Steve Kromer. Credit: Chantal Schoenherz, Mia Rain Torres, Carmen Best, submitted photos Northwest Berkeley is a place where many of the city’s most contentious debates play out on the ground. It’s where you’ll find what remains of the long-running homeless encampment at Eighth and Harrison streets , a stretch of Hopkins Street where city leaders approved a bike lane over objections from nearby residents and merchants, and both the North Berkeley BART station and San Pablo Avenue , which are eyed for new housing development. BERKELEY ELECTION 2026 All of our coverage : Meet the candidates running for city council, rent board, school board and more. And learn about local ballot measures and how to vote. Councilmember Rashi Kesarwani has represented District 1 since 2018, but announced this summer that she would not seek a third term . Five candidates are running to replace her, and Berkeleyside held in-depth interviews with each of them about a range of pressing issues in the district and across the city. Ross Bernet , a program manager for carbon removal at Microsoft, hews most closely to Kesarwani’s positions with his support for housing construction and bike lanes, and she has endorsed him. Still, Bernet said he differs from the two-term councilmember in his views on police surveillance technology. Moni Gangopadhyay , a consumer protection investigator, and Daria Wrubel , a marriage and family therapist, are each running as self-described progressives who criticized the Berkeley Police Department’s use of surveillance technology such as automated license plate readers and the city’s approach to homelessness. But where Gangopadhyay criticized the Hopkins bike lane project and the city’s plans to encourage housing construction, Wrubel said she backs those efforts. Former School Board President Laura Babitt also expressed skepticism of police surveillance and criticized the City Council’s vote to advance the Hopkins project, while calling for Berkeley to more stringently enforce anti-camping rules to prevent homeless encampments. Energy engineer Steve Kromer is running as a political outsider and critic of the city’s housing and transportation policies who wants Berkeley to ban homeless encampments. Campaign finance records show Bernet had raised the most money of the five candidates as of the end of the most recent filing period on Sept. 19. He entered the final months of the campaign with a cash advantage of around $9,000 over Babitt and $11,000 over Wrubel, his nearest rivals. With a crowded field, the District 1 race could come down to ranked choice voting. Read our explanation of how the process works here . A partial list of the candidates’ endorsements is near the bottom of this story. Berkeley public works employees remove belongings during an operation to clear parts of the homeless encampment at Eighth and Harrison streets last month. Credit: Estefany Gonzalez for Berkeleyside Homelessness: How should Berkeley address the crisis on its streets? Babitt took issue with how Berkeley responded to the Eighth and Harrison encampment, which crews began to dismantle last month after a lengthy court case brought by the camp’s residents and advocates. City officials, Babitt said, should have taken steps sooner to evict residents who weren’t protected by court orders after a judge gave Berkeley the OK to do so last year, and should have extended trash collection and pest control services to the area. She criticized what she described as an “all or nothing” approach to removing the camp, which she argued worsened conditions there. “It was heartbreaking to see the city allow people to live that way for so many years,” Babitt said. “Just allowing it in any form, the way the city allowed it, was not OK for anyone.” READ MORE Homeless camp shrunken but still standing after week of sweeps at 8th & Harrison Berkeley sweeps much of Eighth and Harrison homeless encampment Gangopadhyay also said Berkeley should have brought more services to the encampment, but criticized the city’s actions during the sweep last month. “We should do clean-up [at encampments], but I don’t think we should be stealing people’s homes and belongings,” Gangopadhyay said. “It’s traumatizing, and the reason why Eighth Street is persistent is because abatements don’t work.” Wrubel, Bernet and Kromer laid the blame for conditions at the camp more on the federal judge whose orders blocked Berkeley’s efforts to remove it. The candidates had a broad range of ideas for how the city should address homelessness. Wrubel and Gangopadhyay each backed an idea to establish city-run sites equipped with running water, trash and other services where unhoused people could live in tents or vehicles. Both also said they would have voted against a 2024 policy change put forward by Kesarwani that gave city workers greater authority to sweep certain homeless encampments even if they couldn’t offer residents shelter elsewhere. “Because we share in the responsibility of what caused the homelessness crisis, we need to share in the responsibility of solving it,” Wrubel said. “I do not think sweeps without alternative housing are humane or ethical — I think that is morally wrong.” Bernet and Babitt were skeptical of the idea of creating what are often referred to as “sanctioned encampments,” and raised questions about how Berkeley would fund and manage the facilities. They both also said they supported the move to expand the city’s authority to clear encampments. “We need tools to be able to address the issues that are impacting the broader community,” Bernet said. “I have a lot of compassion for the unhoused individuals, but there’s also a balance with the rest of the community’s needs that needs to be addressed.” In a message to supporters last month, Babitt wrote that she wants Berkeley to adopt an ordinance prohibiting camping in public spaces, and for city crews to “respond early and consistently to prevent new encampments” after camps are swept. Kromer similarly said Berkeley should enforce a camping ban and undertake a “complete clean-up of public space.” He said he believes unhoused people who are unable to care for themselves should be compelled into “compassionate but open-eyed and meaningful treatment,” while the city sends a message to others that camping “is just not going to happen here.” “Make sure those people that really need the services [and] treatment get it — and those who could probably just be asked to move along [can] move along,” Kromer said. Housing: Is Berkeley on the right track? Bernet and Wrubel each said they believe the City Council’s moves over the past decade to encourage more housing construction have put Berkeley on the right track. Both said they support the zoning changes the City Council approved last month that raised height limits along San Pablo Avenue to seven stories. As for a similar and fiercely debated proposal that would raise height limits on portions of College, Solano and northern Shattuck avenues, Wrubel and Bernet each said they back a version of the zoning package endorsed by Berkeley’s Planning Commission that would limit the changes to specific properties , rather than rezoning entire blocks of those streets. “I am a supporter of housing abundance leading to affordability and climate benefits,” Bernet said. Still, he added that he supports the more narrow rezoning of College, Solano and North Shattuck because, “I’m not interested in one-size-fits-all solutions.” City officials recently voted to increase height limits in an effort to spur more housing development along San Pablo Avenue. Credit: Sara Martin for Berkeleyside Babitt did not directly say whether she agrees with Berkeley’s housing policy changes. Nor did she say whether she supports the rezoning proposals for San Pablo Avenue or the major streets in North Berkeley and the Elmwood District, dubbed the Corridors Zoning Update . Instead, Babitt pointed to an apartment project for Berkeley Unified teachers and staff within District 1 that she advanced during her time on the school board, describing it as an example of how new housing can incorporate the feedback of existing residents. She said she would take a similar approach to development as a council member. “Whatever we do, when we do it in connection with the neighborhood, you get the best result,” Babitt said. Kromer contends that California’s slate of housing laws and mandates are forcing cities like Berkeley to build “too much too fast,” and says he opposes the Corridors Zoning Update. “We don’t need to grow really fast, really quick in one of the densest parts of California,” Kromer said. “I would go for slow-to-moderate growth, because that does seem inevitable, with some targeted goal or peak.” Gangopadhyay opposed the rezoning of San Pablo Avenue and was similarly critical of the development planned for the North Berkeley BART station , saying she would have advocated for a smaller project than the 739-unit complex approved for the site. As for the Corridors Zoning Update, she said any increases to height limits should be contingent on projects including affordable housing, adding that she would work with the group Save Berkeley Shops — which has led opposition to the rezoning plan — to determine what caps are appropriate. READ MORE City Council raises height limits on San Pablo Avenue Hotly debated plans to add housing in the Elmwood and North Berkeley are a step closer to approval “We need to build the right kind of housing,” Gangopadhyay said. “And we need to do it in a nuanced way so we don’t ultimately end up undermining our efforts or harming our communities with blight, with pushing out local businesses and with a lack of affordability.” The differences between Wrubel and Gangopadhyay’s approaches exemplifies a burgeoning split among progressives over housing policy. While progressive leaders in Berkeley and other cities have supported construction of affordable homes, they have typically been skeptical of the “Yes In My Backyard” view that ramping up for-profit development will help ease the housing crisis. But a growing number of progressives — most prominently New York Mayor Zohran Mamdani and Los Angeles mayoral candidate Nithya Raman, as well as a few local officials such as Berkeley Councilmember Cecilia Lunaparra — have bucked that approach with their support for market-rate construction, saying it’s a critical step to make housing affordable. Wrubel says she is in line with that thinking. “I don’t actually understand the quote-unquote progressive viewpoint that we should prevent new housing construction,” she said. “Housing is a social justice and affordability issue, and I believe that it is in deep alignment with progressive values to want to build more housing.” Gangopadhyay disagrees, saying the calls of YIMBY-backed candidates for “housing at all levels” results in expensive apartments that don’t address the need for affordable homes. “If we’re focused on the development of luxury housing in our community, that’s the wrong focus,” she said. “When I talk about housing, I talk about affordable housing first.” Hopkins Street: Should Berkeley proceed with bike lane project? Kromer, Babitt and Gangopadhyay each said the City Council made the wrong decision when it voted in July to direct staff to prepare plans for a new protected bike lane on Hopkins Street, a project that has fueled years of heated debate and a lawsuit because it would require the removal of much of the parking along several blocks of the corridor. Wrubel and Bernet said they agreed with the council’s vote. Gangopadhyay leveled the most direct criticism of the project, which she charged would make it harder for seniors and people with disabilities to access the area’s popular businesses. READ MORE Berkeley City Council votes to back Hopkins Street bike lanes The Hopkins Street battle is back: Berkeley reopens ‘toxic’ debate over bike lane “Creating a cycle track, removing all that parking, narrowing the corridor — it decreases access for a lot of people without giving them another option,” Gangopadhyay said. She wants Berkeley to repave Hopkins without significantly redesigning it. Gangopadhyay argued the city could improve safety along the corridor by installing signs alerting drivers to share the road with bikes, undertaking “equitable traffic enforcement” and creating a city-operated “fast, free shuttle” that would ferry riders up and down Hopkins. Kromer similarly said he wants Berkeley to repave the street in its current form. He said he would solicit input from residents to decide on “a balance people can live with,” though he added that as a cyclist he is “not a big fan of all the biking infrastructure” Berkeley has built in recent years, calling it “dangerous.” Kromer said he would prefer the city improve safety by paving more streets and ramping up enforcement of traffic violations. Babitt expressed skepticism about the bike lane’s potential costs. She said she would have voted for a motion brought by Councilmember Brent Blackaby at the July meeting that would have commissioned a study of the Hopkins bike lane as well as alternative routes for cyclists on other nearby streets. That proposal was voted down 5-4, with Kesarwani casting one of the deciding votes against it. “My goal would have been to have the options in front of me, to know clearly what my tradeoffs are, to know clearly how it’s going to impact the small businesses, to know clearly how it’s going to impact our emergency services department — and then make an informed decision,” Babitt said. A bicyclist rides up Hopkins Street in a 2023 file photo. Credit: Ximena Natera, Berkeleyside/CatchLight Local Bernet contends the concerns merchants and residents have raised about the loss of an estimated 145 parking spaces along the corridor can be addressed by better managing the area’s remaining parking with meters or time limits that encourage turnover. The project, he said, would create a protected east-west route that is critical to the safe bicycling network the city has pledged to build, and won’t ultimately harm the area’s businesses. “This has happened in countless cities, over and over, and every city that has done a project like this goes through the same fear beforehand and the same relief afterward,” Bernet said. “There’s strong evidence that bike lanes are good for local businesses, and my guess is that a year after installation, most people won’t even remember why this was such a big fight.” Wrubel said she supports road redesigns that give cyclists and pedestrians more space, though she tempered her backing of the Hopkins project. The council was right to advance planning and design work for it, she said, but those details will need to be handled correctly for her to support building it. “I would want to see that the fire chief does consider it a safe plan, that the [disability] access is improved, that commercial loading zones are improved,” she said. “If we’re going to transition away from fossil fuels, we need to provide the infrastructure for alternative forms of transportation.” Protesters hold signs opposing the use of Flock license plate readers during a Berkeley City Council meeting in May. Credit: Estefany Gonzalez for Berkeleyside Policing: Should Berkeley ditch Flock cameras or expand surveillance? When the City Council voted this spring to renew Berkeley’s contract with the firm Flock Safety to operate automated license plate reader cameras , Kesarwani was part of the single-vote majority that approved the one-year contract. Wrubel, Gangopadhyay and Babitt each said they would vote to end the city’s contract with Flock, which they described as a bad actor that cannot be trusted to safeguard data it collects in Berkeley. Kromer said he would “probably” vote against contracting with the company based on what he knows about it. READ MORE Berkeley rejects police surveillance expansion, will keep Flock plate readers What are Flock cameras, and why are they controversial in Berkeley? Bernet expressed the most openness to working with Flock. His preference would be for Berkeley to contract with a different company for license plate readers, he said, but if Flock “is able to meet data controls that meet the needs of the community,” he would consider renewing the contract. Still, Bernet said he would not approve a package of new surveillance equipment and software sought by Berkeley police that includes new cameras and drones. “I am not interested in expanding the surveillance state in Berkeley, and I think that we need to be extremely mindful,” he said. Asked whether he would support letting police use automated license plate readers or similar tools from a company other than Flock, Kromer said he would convene police officials and members of Berkeley’s Police Accountability Board in an effort to find a “balance point” on the technology — but added that he is open to it. “I would be happy to have availability of the best technology, especially when it might help solve certain types of problems,” Kromer said. Wrubel and Gangopadhyay both said they oppose the use of license plate readers and the broader surveillance expansion sought by Berkeley police; they have signed a pledge from the group Berkeley Against Mass Surveillance stating they will work to remove Flock devices and never vote to “approve, renew, expand, or otherwise allow any mass surveillance system.” Both said they were concerned the city would not be able to safeguard data collected by its devices from other law enforcement agencies, such as federal immigration authorities. “There’s enough data showing the harms and not enough showing us what benefits it has created,” Gangopadhyay said of automated license plate readers. “These cameras don’t prevent crime, it doesn’t make sense for a city like Berkeley and is inconsistent with our sanctuary city policy.” Berkeley police officials, including Chief Jen Louis, center, answer questions about a proposal to expand BPD’s surveillance network during a May City Council meeting. Credit: Estefany Gonzalez for Berkeleyside Wrubel made her most pointed criticism of Kesarwani over the departing councilmember’s support for surveillance technology, as well as policy changes that eased limits on when Berkeley police can use pepper spray, dogs and helicopters . “I would never have put those forward,” Wrubel said. “I think [Kesarwani] has really abandoned her responsibility of civilian oversight of police and is just advancing whatever [Police] Chief [Jen] Louis asks of her, and I don’t think that’s the role of a city councilmember.” Babitt expressed skepticism about the usefulness of police surveillance technology, though she did not directly say whether she opposes automated license plate readers altogether. Babitt also said she could be open to using cameras to deter illegal dumping. “I would want to know more about the intention and the goal and how it would be used,” Babitt said. But, she added, “I wouldn’t spend more money in an area where the data is saying we don’t need to increase our spending there.” Who’s endorsing them? In addition to Kesarwani’s endorsement, Bernet is also backed by councilmembers Terry Taplin and Mark Humbert, as well as Assemblymember Buffy Wicks and Mayor Adena Ishii, who ranked him as her second choice in the race, among others. Organizations supporting his campaign include the Berkeley Democratic Club, the Northern Alameda County Group of the Sierra Club and the housing advocacy groups East Bay YIMBY, East Bay for Everyone and Berkeley Neighbors for Housing and Climate Action. Babitt has been endorsed by councilmembers Ben Bartlett, Shoshana O’Keefe and Blackaby, as well as former mayor and state Sen. Jesse Arreguín and Rent Stabilization Board Commissioner Andy Kelley, among others. The Berkeley Firefighters Association gave Babitt its top endorsement (with Bernet as a second choice), while she also counts endorsements from the League of Conservation Voters of the East Bay and the Berkeley and Oakland Chapter of Black Women Organized for Political Action. Wrubel received Ishii’s first-choice endorsement, and her list of supporters also includes Lunaparra, Bartlett as a second choice, Alameda County Supervisor Nikki Fortunato Bas and rent board commissioners Soli Alpert, Alfred Twu, Nathan Mizell and Ida Martinac. She is backed by Service Employees International Union Local 1021, the Wellstone Democratic Renewal Club, Berkeley Tenants Union and the California Working Families Party, and has second-choice endorsements from East Bay YIMBY and Berkeley Neighbors for Housing and Climate Action. Gangopadhyay has also been endorsed by Alpert and Martinac. Organizations backing her include Our Revolution East Bay, the Alameda County Green Party, Berkeley Tenants Union and Flip the Berkeley City Council, a newly formed coalition of progressive groups that includes the organizations Berkeley CopWatch and Berkeley Network for Palestine; she received a second-choice endorsement from the California Working Families Party. Kromer ’s website does not list any endorsements. How much money have they raised? All five of the candidates are using the city’s public financing program , which limits individual donations to $60 and provides a 6-to-1 match for all donations from Berkeley residents. Bernet reported raising $11,685 from contributors as of Sept. 19, and counted $60 donations from former state Sen. Nancy Skinner, street safety advocates Ben Gerhardstein and Karen Parolek, and developers Patrick Kennedy and Mark Rhoades, among others. He ended the period with $25,707 on hand, just over $9,000 more than his nearest rival. Babitt raised $4,000 from contributors prior to the deadline, putting her fourth in fundraising, but she has also spent less than nearly all of her rivals. Factor in public financing, and she ended the filing period with the second-most cash on hand at $16,690. Her list of donors includes Donna DeDiemar, a longtime opponent of the Hopkins bike lane who sued the city over the project in August, and school board Director Ka’Dijah Brown. Wrubel raised $8,186 over the same time period, with a donor list that includes former school board directors Ana Vasudeo and Ty Alpert, and activist Andrea Pritchett. Wrubel’s campaign ended the filing period with $14,885 in the bank. Gangopadhyay raised $6,309 from donors through the end of the filing period, counting contributions from DeDiemar, Save Berkeley Shops President Donald Simon, activist Elana Auerbach and Elisa Mikiten, who ran unsuccessfully for the District 1 seat in 2022. Gangopadhyay’s campaign ended the filing period with $6,159 on hand. Kromer raised $2,250 and records show he ended the filing period with $1,082 on hand. His list of donors includes DeDiemar as well as Jim McGrath and Geoffrey Lomax, two affiliates of the group Affordable Berkeley, which is opposing measures on the 2026 ballot to raise sales taxes and issue $300 million in bonds for infrastructure. Berkeley election 2026 resources The deadline to preregister to vote online or by mail in Alameda County is Oct. 19 (though you can register the day you vote if you miss that deadline). The election is Tuesday, Nov. 3. We put together a guide to the essentials of how to register and vote, what’s on the ballot and more . Here are some other helpful election resources: The city of Berkeley’s election portal . Don’t know your Berkeley City Council district? The city website has a handy tool for that . Vote 411 : View a personalized ballot by entering your address. Voter guides from CalMatters , the LA Times and the California Secretary of State . Check your voter registration status (and sign up to get election materials online). Find your voter profile (Alameda County registrar of voters). See complete 2026 election coverage on Berkeleyside . ...We rely on your support We know that most readers don't get to the end of the article. But you did! To support our in-depth, rock-solid reporting, please consider making a donation to our nonprofit newsroom today. We rely on our readers — particularly the ones who read the whole story! Yes, I want to support Berkeleyside’s newsroom. " * " indicates required fields Send a note to the editors. * Have a comment on this story? See an error that needs correcting? Have a tip, question or suggestion? Drop us a line. Email * Name Phone Would you like to be anonymous? No Yes If you reply "no," we may publish your comment in a story or newsletter under your name. Embed URL Submit Δ Tagged: Berkeley City Council , Election 2026 , Home: highlight , Home: lead Nico Savidge nico@berkeleyside.org Nico Savidge is Berkeleyside's news editor, and has covered city hall since 2021. He has reported on transportation, law enforcement, politics, education and college sports for the San Jose Mercury News,... More by Nico Savidge Instagram TikTok Facebook Bluesky Flickr Berkeleyside Arts Berkeley neighborhoods Business City Community Public Safety Events Housing & Development Obituaries Opinion Education Nosh All Nosh New Restaurants Nosh Features Coming Soon Nightlife Nosh Guides Restaurant Closures About ♥ Donate Newsletters Submit a tip About How we work Advertise Careers Richmondside Oaklandside Support Donate to Berkeleyside and support independent local journalism. Part of © 2026 Cityside. All Rights Reserved Powered by Newspack Our coverage is free for all of Berkeley, because we want everyone to know what's really happening in our city. Will you help support our free journalism? DONATE Essential reading for tens of thousands of Berkeleyans. The Daily Briefing is the easiest way to stay up to speed with what’s happening in Berkeley. Sign up Sign in or register Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Policies . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Register Close We'll create a new account for . Continue Cancel Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... You must be logged in to post a comment.