--- page 1 ---
OPINION
Opinion: Berkeley does not need Flock
surveillance tech to stay safe
The chair and vice chair of Berkeley’s civilian police oversight board explain why
they oppose expanding the city’s Flock Safety network ahead of a Thursday vote.
By Josh Cayetano and Leah Wilson
May 6, 2026, 3:25 p.m.
Read an op-ed, published in the Berkeley
Scanner, by Councilmembers Shoshana
O’Keefe, Mark Humbert, Rashi
Kesarwani and Terry Taplin about why
they support renewing and expanding the
city’s contract with Flock.
This Thursday, May 7, Berkeleyans will be presented with a false choice: Flock or their safety.
Berkeley City Council is poised to approve the largest expansion of police surveillance technology in
Berkeley’s history and further entangle Berkeley with Flock Safety — a vendor that over 75 jurisdictions
have deemed untrustworthy, has facilitated data-sharing with federal immigration authorities, and has not
demonstrated either the technical capacity or will to adhere to Berkeley’s data privacy standards. 
What public safety emergency has prompted this reckless push to partner with Flock? 
There is none.  Despite what council members
advocating for expanding our contract with Flock
would have you believe, Berkeley does not need
Flock to be safe. Crime in Berkeley has
plummeted.  The same is true nationwide. 
But we do not need to debate the benefits of
Automated License Plate Readers, drones, or
surveillance cameras to question the wisdom of
approving a contract with Flock. 
In September 2025, community leaders sounded the alarm about Flock Safety’s data sharing practices,
and we strongly urged the city to consider whether another vendor aligned with Berkeley’s values could
be awarded the contract. After all, Flock’s technology enables cooperating local police to search large
swaths of data to assist federal immigration authorities.

--- page 2 ---
We expected the city to take the common-sense route of issuing a “request for proposal” so that other
vendors could compete with Flock Safety — not just on price, but also on other features including
contract terms and conditions, data privacy features and technical specifications. That did not happen. 
Instead, the Berkeley Police Department returned months later with a proposal to expand the Flock
contract and created a false zero-sum narrative that refusing to contract with Flock will cause Berkeley to
lose the benefits of surveillance technology altogether. 
As the chair and vice chair of Berkeley’s Police Accountability Board, we are frankly frustrated by the
lack of transparency and conflicting information we have received from the city about its relationship
with Flock Safety. After many back-and-forths, and after we reviewed correspondence dating back to
2023, we realized that BPD has continuously sought to expand its exclusive relationship with Flock
Safety without seriously considering potential alternatives.
Just read BPD’s pitch to the City Council. When it proposed acquiring four new technologies (drones,
community surveillance videos, Flock Nova, and the Real Time Crime Center) and consolidating those
under one Flock contract, BPD did not list any alternative vendor.  Instead, it suggested that the choice
was between Flock and no surveillance program at all.
When BPD described the “experience of other entities,” BPD conveniently omitted all of the publicly
available information about how dozens of jurisdictions have canceled their Flock contract and how
police chiefs in places like Mountain View have voiced their loss of confidence in Flock.  We requested
that BPD supplement its report with that additional information, but the department ignored us. 
As we dug deeper into the procurement process (which is about as fun as it sounds), we also realized that
BPD has shifted its procurement vehicle for contracting with Flock three times in the last four weeks to
try to satisfy the requirements imposed by the City’s Purchasing Manual. Now, BPD is asking the council
to “piggyback” on a bid submitted to a Texas school district for school safety technologies. That probably
makes as little sense to you as it does to us. 
We were told that Flock Safety is the only vendor who can deliver the needed caliber of surveillance
technology on a single platform.
We do not think BPD can substantiate that claim without a competitive process, which is the most reliable
way to identify the best vendor for Berkeley’s purposes. But even if that claim were true, Flock supporters
have not shown why consolidation matters enough to ignore the warning signs and proceed anyway. Not
one jurisdiction we polled, large or small, consolidates its entire surveillance system with one vendor.

--- page 3 ---
For a city in fiscal crisis that was recently found wanting on its procurement practices by its own City
Auditor, approving an expanded contract with Flock Safety without competitive solicitation is not
something we can support — or explain to the public we serve.
The City Council meeting on Flock cameras will be held at 5 p.m. on Thursday, May 7.
Josh Cayetano is chair of Berkeley’s Police Accountability Board, a practicing attorney and a graduate of
UC Berkeley’s law school. Leah Wilson is the vice chair of the accountability board and former president
of the Berkeley school board. She has worked as court executive officer of Alameda County and executive
director of the state bar of California. 
RELATED STORIES
What are Flock cameras, and why are they controversial in Berkeley?
November 24, 2025

--- page 4 ---
From drones to video cameras, Berkeley police ask for more Flock surveillance tools
March 19, 2026
Berkeley council delays vote on ‘largest surveillance expansion in the city’s history’
March 25, 2026

--- page 5 ---
This article may be subject to copyright. Contact editors@berkeleyside.org for details.