Flock surveillance package approved in Alameda County Close ♥ Donate Newsletters Submit a tip About How we work Advertise Careers Sign In Search for: Search Nosh Arts Business City Community Public Safety Housing Neighborhoods Education Obituaries Opinion Events Latest news Nosh Features Nosh Guides New Restaurants Subscribe to Nosh Berkeleyside Bluesky Close Nosh New restaurants Bites Nosh features Arts Business City City COVID-19 Crime & Safety Policing Homicide Shootings Traffic Safety Events Housing Neighborhoods Schools Obituaries Opinion Skip to content Bluesky Berkeleyside Nonprofit news. Free for all, funded by readers. ♥ Donate Newsletters Submit a tip About How we work Advertise Careers Sign In ♥ Donate Menu Sign In Nosh Arts Business City Community Public Safety Housing Neighborhoods Education Obituaries Opinion Events Latest news Nosh Features Nosh Guides New Restaurants Subscribe to Nosh Berkeleyside Open Search Search for: Search Nosh Logo (Highlight Menu) Nosh Posted in Public Safety Surveillance contract with Flock approved by Alameda County Meanwhile, Berkeley is seeking bidders other than Flock for its surveillance network expansion and approved new rules Tuesday for handling video feeds residents and businesses share with police. by Eli Wolfe and Annie Sciacca July 1, 2026, 3:39 p.m. July 1, 2026, 3:39 p.m. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Threads (Opens in new window) Threads Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Alameda County’s new $2.4 million contract extension with Flock Safety, approved by the Board of Supervisors on Tuesday, includes automated license plate readers, which capture data from the backs of passing vehicles; pan-tilt-zoom cameras that provide operators with a real-time view of public areas; and a fleet of drones. The sheriff’s department will also have access to Nova, software that allows users to centralize data from computer-aided dispatch and record management systems and access open-source intelligence data. But Alameda County leaders’ approval of the powerful new police surveillance technologies comes just as new concerns about who can access all this sensitive data were aired out. Last month, San Francisco police revealed that a “fusion center” known as the Northern California Regional Intelligence Center (NCRIC) accessed data from San Francisco’s Flock system. A different fusion center, the Western States Information Network, illegally searched NCRIC’s data on behalf of out-of-state and federal agencies. California law bars the state’s law enforcement agencies from sharing license plate reader data outside of the state, but officials have repeatedly violated this rule. SFPD shared data collected from OPD’s Flock system with multiple federal agencies, according to reports last year. These violations have received more public scrutiny during the Trump administration because license plate readers have been used by ICE and others to track immigrants, or by police in Texas and other states that have outlawed abortions against people seeking reproductive healthcare. Sheriff’s office staff said Tuesday at the supervisors’ meeting that they conducted an audit and confirmed that the Northern California Regional Intelligence Center and the Western States Information Network accessed the county’s system and improperly shared data. They said these searches were for legitimate law enforcement purposes and only applied to a small fraction of the overall searches conducted over the past year. Sheriff Yesenia Sanchez said she responded by reducing the number of agencies her office directly shares data with. Sanchez said that her office has taken significant steps to prevent further abuses of state law. “I am disclosing to you and the community what happened, and what corrective actions we took,” Sanchez said, adding that her office “shut off half the state” in response. Concerns about Flock and how police use its data aren’t new Some county officials have expressed reservations about Flock, citing news reports detailing how the company’s surveillance tools have been used by law enforcement track people seeking reproductive healthcare and search for undocumented immigrants . The sheriff stressed that the agreement with Flock is a “bridge” contract while the county conducts a request for proposals from other vendors for a future agreement. This promise didn’t assuage Supervisors Nikki Fortunato Bas and Elisa Márquez, who voted against the contract. Bas said she appreciated some additional safeguards the sheriff incorporated into the agreement, but asked to hold the item to consider further changes proposed by Secure Justice , a nonprofit government watchdog group. Brian Hofer, Secure Justice’s executive director, sued Oakland last year for allegedly sharing license plate reader data with federal police and has threatened to sue Berkeley unless it drops all its contracts with Flock. “For me, this isn’t about the technology. I know we need it,” Márquez said. “But we need to have stronger safeguards in this county, which we currently don’t have.” Supervisors David Haubert and Nate Miley were unmoved by these arguments. Miley said he wouldn’t be doing his job if he denied the sheriff access to this technology. The sheriff has already addressed concerns previously expressed by the board, he said. This included outlining restrictions around sharing of data, affirming the county’s control and ownership of Flock data, and demanding immediate notification of breaches, among other things. Haubert stated bluntly that he doesn’t believe the Flock cameras are being misused. “These cameras are meant to keep us safe,” Haubert said. “I don’t believe that they are widely used by ICE. Has it been that it’s happened? I don’t think it’s widely used by the federal government. I don’t think it’s used to surveil people.” While ICE doesn’t have direct access to Flock cameras, local law enforcement agencies outside of California have knowingly and purposefully shared data from their own systems with that agency, according to 404Media . And Flock’s surveillance capabilities are vast: Oakland’s license plate reader system captured data from license plantes over 638 million times last year. Haubert argued that if the board didn’t take action on Tuesday the sheriff would be out of contract with Flock. It’s not clear what would have happened if the county had postponed its decision. Haubert also dismissed the critique that Flock cameras disproportionately target people of color. He recognized Brenda Grisham, a Black Oakland business owner and mayoral candidate, who was sitting in the audience during the supervisors’ meeting to express support for Flock. Grisham has been a vocal defender of Flock in other cities, including Richmond and Berkeley . “There is never going to be a perfect system, but we have the system working for us,” Grisham said during Tuesday’s meeting. She said that her daughter’s car was recently stolen and recovered with help from license plate readers. Grisham was one of a handful of people who urged the board to approve the contract. Roughly 40 people asked the board to spike the deal with Flock, with many raising familiar concerns about how this technology can infringe on privacy and civil liberties. Mike Katz, the director of the advocacy group Oakland Privacy , pointed out that the county’s agreement with Flock retains data captured on the license plate reader system for 365 days, which is far longer than in most other jurisdictions. A homeowner and business owner who identified himself as Jordan warned the board that Alameda County is becoming more embedded with Flock with each passing year, making it harder for officials to extract themselves from their relationship with the company. “They are not acting in good faith. They do not have the best intentions,” said Jordan. Berkeley moves ahead on plans for surveillance tech expansion The Berkeley City Council on Tuesday cleared the way for its police department to shop for new surveillance technology, approving both an authorization to solicit bids and a pair of governing use policies for the tech. The move came after the City Council voted 8-1 in May to stop a proposed $2 million surveillance network expansion with Flock and instead directed city staff to pursue a bidding process with multiple companies. The council signed off Tuesday on authorizing the city to issue a request for proposals for up to $2.4 million in “public safety technology tools.” The “request for proposals” covers six components that can be awarded separately or together: drone-as-first-responder systems and docking stations, unmanned aircraft systems, automated license plate readers, pan-tilt-zoom fixed cameras, investigative software, and integration of privately owned camera feeds. The council also adopted a resolution under the city’s Surveillance Technology Ordinance accepting acquisition reports and approving surveillance use policies for two of those tools: Community Video Streams and Investigative Software. Community Video Streams technology lets businesses or residents voluntarily register and share existing camera feeds with police in commercial districts, while the investigative software is a search layer over existing records the department already has. Department staff pointed to safeguards added after a previous review from the Public Safety Policy Committee that called for revisions to the use policies such as a ban on facial recognition, prohibitions on using the tools for federal immigration enforcement or out-of-state cases targeting reproductive or gender-affirming care, “human-in-the-loop” review of any AI-generated leads, twice-yearly audits, live-stream access limited to active incidents, and a public map of connected cameras. Dozens of people objected to the adoption of the policies and the bid for proposals in public comment periods throughout the meetings. Speakers invoked the hundreds of residents who turned out in May to oppose expanding Flock cameras, arguing that recorded footage remains vulnerable to later facial-recognition searches and federal access regardless of local rules. District 1 Councilmember Rashi Kesarwani cited victims’ rights and the elimination of 17 vacant police positions as reasons to equip officers with “modern crime fighting tools.” “I believe strongly in accountability for victims when someone in our community is harmed,” Kesarwani said. “I believe they deserve a police department with the tools to solve the case, and we’ve already seen how automated license plate reader technology has helped solve crimes that would have otherwise gone unsolved” District 7 Councilmember Cecilia Lunaparra was the sole council vote against approving the use policies. “I’m fundamentally unconvinced that these tools are what our constituency wants and are without risk,” Lunaparra said. “I have no interest in aiding a fascist government by expanding surveillance.” District 4 Councilmember Igor Tregub, who told the chamber he and his family had fled a country that surveilled its citizens, said he still had unanswered questions even as the measure moved forward. He abstained from the vote. Related stories Flock is quietly training Bay Area police to sway city leaders to buy surveillance tech June 1, 2026 Berkeley rejects police surveillance expansion, will keep Flock plate readers May 8, 2026 May 8, 2026, 5:09 p.m. Leaked memo: Flock may not be able to follow through on Berkeley’s surveillance data security demands, city attorneys say May 6, 2026 May 7, 2026, 11:11 a.m. We know that most readers don't get to the end of the article. But you did! To support our in-depth, rock-solid reporting, please consider making a donation to our nonprofit newsroom today. We rely on our readers — particularly the ones who read the whole story! Yes, I want to support Berkeleyside’s newsroom. " * " indicates required fields Send a note to the editors. * Have a comment on this story? See an error that needs correcting? Have a tip, question or suggestion? Drop us a line. Email * Name Phone Would you like to be anonymous? No Yes If you reply "no," we may publish your comment in a story or newsletter under your name. This field is hidden when viewing the form Embed URL Δ Tagged: Alameda County , Flock , Home: highlight , Home: lead , surveillance Bluesky Berkeleyside Arts Berkeley neighborhoods Business City Community Public Safety Events Housing & Development Obituaries Opinion Education Nosh All Nosh New Restaurants Nosh Features Coming Soon Nightlife Nosh Guides Restaurant Closures About ♥ Donate Newsletters Submit a tip About How we work Advertise Careers Richmondside Oaklandside Support Donate to Berkeleyside and support independent local journalism. Part of © 2026 Cityside. All Rights Reserved Powered by Newspack Our coverage is free for all of Berkeley, because we want everyone to know what's really happening in our city. Will you help support our free journalism? DONATE Essential reading for tens of thousands of Berkeleyans. The Daily Briefing is the easiest way to stay up to speed with what’s happening in Berkeley. Sign up Sign in or register Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Go back Continue Set a password (optional) This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Verify your email Close We'll send a verification code to %EMAIL% . Send code Skip for now Gift this article Close Link Copy link