Leaked memo: Berkeley's Flock contract carries 'legal risks' Our coverage is free for all of Berkeley, because we want everyone to know what's really happening in our city. Will you help support our free journalism? DONATE Essential reading for tens of thousands of Berkeleyans. The Daily Briefing is the easiest way to stay up to speed with what’s happening in Berkeley. Sign up Close ♥ Donate Newsletters Submit a tip About How we work Advertise Careers Search for: Search Nosh Arts Business City Community Public Safety Housing Neighborhoods Schools Obituaries Opinion Events Latest news Nosh Features Nosh Guides New Restaurants Subscribe to Nosh Berkeleyside Close Nosh New restaurants Bites Nosh features Arts Business City City COVID-19 Crime & Safety Policing Homicide Shootings Traffic Safety Events Housing Neighborhoods Schools Obituaries Opinion Skip to content Berkeleyside Nonprofit news. Free for all, funded by readers. ♥ Donate Newsletters Submit a tip About How we work Advertise Careers ♥ Donate Menu Nosh Arts Business City Community Public Safety Housing Neighborhoods Schools Obituaries Opinion Events Latest news Nosh Features Nosh Guides New Restaurants Subscribe to Nosh Berkeleyside Open Search Search for: Search Nosh Logo (Highlight Menu) Nosh Posted in Public Safety Leaked memo: Berkeley’s Flock surveillance expansion has ‘legal risks,’ city attorneys say On the eve of a City Council vote to expand the police department’s tech arsenal to include drones, cameras and new software, oversight officials have also said BPD ignored competitive bidding rules. by Alex N. Gecan May 6, 2026, 5:12 p.m. May 6, 2026, 5:46 p.m. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Threads (Opens in new window) Threads Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky A Flock Safety license plate reader. Credit: David Goldman/AP Photo A confidential memo, laying bare city lawyers’ reservations about a proposed $2 million expansion of Berkeley’s police surveillance network , has leaked on the eve of what was supposed to be the City Council’s final vote on the matter. The Berkeley Police Department has asked to renew its contract with Georgia-based Flock Safety for automated license plate readers , and to procure new video cameras , drones and software from the company. The department also wants permission from the City Council to plug into private cameras around the city, which could involve Flock as well. At the same time, the city’s civilian police oversight board has warned that the proposed expansion runs afoul of Berkeley’s own competitive contracting rules . The April 24 memo , which was first obtained by The Daily Californian and verified by Berkeleyside, lays out a litany of concerns about moving ahead with the $2 million expansion. Attorneys for the city warned about threats of lawsuits against Berkeley, unreliable data protections and what could have been either simple negligence or shady maneuvering by Flock while negotiating with Berkeley, to name a few. The document was sent to members of the City Council and Police Accountability Board, as well as City Manager Paul Buddenhagen, Police Chief Jen Louis and Interim Director of Police Accountability Kathy Lee. “Contracting with Flock and purchasing all the products [the police department] is requesting carries some legal risks,” the memo concludes. “Although the city can mitigate some of those risks through contractual protections and improving use policies and acquisition reports, this technology carries inherent legal risks that cannot be entirely mitigated.” The attorneys suggested that Flock is likely going to agree to any safety measures the city demands, but added, “we cannot ensure Flock will abide by its contractual obligations,” and the company may not even have the technical ability to implement some of the safeguards to which it might agree. A coalition of two council members and Mayor Adena Ishii have already proposed dropping contracts with Flock altogether while nevertheless pursuing some sort of surveillance network. Ishii declined to comment on the memo Wednesday. A majority of the council, however, has remained bullish on Flock, writing in statements published since they received the memo that the technology is an essential force multiplier for BPD, now in a years-long staffing crisis, even though other members have proposed additional safeguards of their own. A coalition of community organizations has planned a rally for Thursday at 4 p.m. outside where the council will meet an hour later, at the Berkeley Unified School District boardroom at 1231 Addison St. The memo was written by City Attorney Farimah Brown, Interim Assistant City Attorney Katrina Eiland and Deputy City Attorney Stephen Hylas. Attorneys for the city have not responded to inquiries from Berkeleyside about the content of memo, or whether its admonitions are relatively egregious or commonplace when the council contemplates new contracts. Berkeley lawyers warn of improper data sharing, hackers Part of what makes Flock’s hardware so attractive to law enforcement agencies is the ease with which different networks of equipment — such as plate readers, video cameras and drones — can talk to each other, whether it’s different networks under one agency or different agencies accessing one other’s networks. But the city’s lawyers said that one-stop-shopping aspect is equally attractive to hackers. “If an unauthorized user were to gain access to Berkeley’s Flock OS login, they could view not only the footage from one camera but the footage from all the city’s devices and all those cameras shared with the city,” according to the memo. Flock has faced scrutiny nationwide because law enforcement officers have used data from its networks to investigate people who have had abortions , monitor protesters and locate undocumented people for deportation . Of particular concern to Berkeleyans, federal immigration officials have accessed data from Flock networks elsewhere in the country even after police agencies said that would not happen, Berkeley’s lawyers wrote. They were hesitant to say whether the fault lay with Flock or with the agencies using its hardware, and even if it did lay with Flock, whether the corporation had been “intentional or merely negligent.” That said, the attorneys wrote, it did appear that Flock had unilaterally reactivated a “national lookup” feature in several West Coast jurisdictions after those jurisdictions had shut the feature off, opening up those networks to other agencies. Although Berkeley has proposed a $150,000 penalty for each incident of unauthorized data sharing, the attorneys warned that if Flock challenges a claim from Berkeley, the cost of that potential court battle could be prohibitive given that Flock is a multi-billion-dollar corporation and can drag legal cases on far longer than a city the size of Berkeley. The attorneys also flagged strange draft language Flock had proposed for its contract with Berkeley, which Flock described as “boilerplate” but nevertheless reversed tweaks Berkeley had made to tighten restrictions on sharing data with third parties. “We cannot be sure if Flock’s amendments reflect an intentional attempt to discreetly revise the city’s previous edits without notifying us, or rather just involve a failure to recognize inconsistencies between its standard boilerplate and the city’s requests. But either possibility is troubling,” the attorneys wrote. Berkeley could make itself a target for litigation Beyond the daunting prospect of taking Flock to court, Berkeley could become the target of litigation itself. Secure Justice, a nonprofit that has already sued Oakland over allegations of improperly sharing data from Flock hardware, wrote to Berkeley in November demanding the city abandon all contracts with Flock, threatening that Berkeley could risk facing multi-million dollar lawsuits like other California cities have. Berkeley, the nonprofit warned, would be running afoul of a state law that bars local police agencies from sharing plate reader data with federal or out-of-state agencies, as well as several of Berkeley’s own city ordinances, if it didn’t bail on Flock. (In February, an Oakland law firm filed a class action suit against Flock based on similar allegations, which Flock has denied .) Brian Hofer’s nonprofit Secure Justice has asked Berkeley to cut off its relationship with Flock Safety. Credit: Estefany Gonzalez for The Oaklandside Berkeley denied Secure Justice’s allegations at the time. The city’s attorneys wrote in the confidential April memo that they could mount a robust defense if necessary, but warned that the state law in question would punish Berkeley even if it were Flock that shared data improperly. And BPD failed entirely to meet city ordinance requirements before asking to plug “community video streams,” or video captured by private residents or businesses, into the department’s surveillance network, the lawyers wrote. The Police Accountability Board had already warned about that practice, according to the memo, though it is unclear when. Flock contract belies Berkeley bidding rules, PAB warns Beyond the possible legal consequences, the Police Accountability Board has alleged that the proposed surveillance expansion flies in the face of Berkeley’s own contracting rules. BPD and other city officials “did not engage in a competitive bidding process” when they should have, according to a memo from the PAB Monday . The board has raised a number of other concerns before, some of which were mirrored in the attorneys’ confidential memo, such as agencies not always knowing who has the ability to look at their data. Putting all the city’s surveillance eggs in Flock’s basket meant if one part of the network goes down or faces a security threat, it could precipitate a catastrophic surveillance crash citywide, the PAB warned in March . On top of the practical risks, committing to a single vendor gives that vendor undue leverage, board members said at the time. The PAB recommended the city set aside its proposed surveillance expansion unless and until the city heard competing bids, and asked that finance officials review the contracts Berkeley already has with Flock to make sure the city was following its own purchasing rules. The board also wanted clearer information from BPD on what the department needed versus what it preferred from surveillance hardware, as well as a more comprehensive analysis of the geographical coverage, data retention implications, civil liberties ramifications and financial burden of the proposed network for the City Council to review. Related stories From drones to video cameras, Berkeley police ask for more Flock surveillance tools March 19, 2026 March 19, 2026, 3:23 p.m. Flock license plate scanner contract postponed by Alameda County leaders February 12, 2026 Feb. 12, 2026, 11:44 a.m. What are Flock cameras, and why are they controversial in Berkeley? November 24, 2025 We know that most readers don't get to the end of the article. But you did! To support our in-depth, rock-solid reporting, please consider making a donation to our nonprofit newsroom today. We rely on our readers — particularly the ones who read the whole story! Yes, I want to support Berkeleyside’s newsroom. " * " indicates required fields Send a note to the editors. * Have a comment on this story? See an error that needs correcting? Have a tip, question or suggestion? Drop us a line. Email * Name Phone Would you like to be anonymous? No Yes If you reply "no," we may publish your comment in a story or newsletter under your name. This field is hidden when viewing the form Embed URL Δ Tagged: Berkeley City Council , Berkeley Police Department , Flock , Home: highlight , Home: lead , Policing , surveillance Alex N. Gecan alex@berkeleyside.org Alex N. Gecan joined Berkeleyside in 2023 as a senior reporter covering public safety. He has covered criminal justice, courts and breaking and local news for The Middletown Press, Stamford Advocate and... More by Alex N. Gecan Berkeleyside Arts Berkeley neighborhoods Business City Community Public Safety Events Housing & Development Obituaries Opinion Schools Nosh All Nosh New Restaurants Nosh Features Coming Soon Nightlife Nosh Guides Restaurant Closures About ♥ Donate Newsletters Submit a tip About How we work Advertise Careers Richmondside Oaklandside Support Donate to Berkeleyside and support independent local journalism. Part of © 2026 Cityside. All Rights Reserved Powered by Newspack Sign in Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Create an account Sign in to an existing account Go back Continue Set a password (optional) This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... You must be logged in to post a comment.