County legislators mull future surveillance policy after Flock fight - The Ithaca Voice Close Sign In Search for: Search About Open dropdown menu The Newsroom Board of Directors Annual Report Media Kit Editorial Standards Privacy Policy Government Open dropdown menu New York State Tompkins County Ithaca Economy Open dropdown menu Development & Real Estate Public Safety Open dropdown menu Crime Education Open dropdown menu K-12 Higher Education Health Open dropdown menu Environment Health Transportation Culture Open dropdown menu Arts Sports Podcast Announcements Open dropdown menu Obituaries Opinion Support Us Open dropdown menu Donate Our Funders Sponsorship Facebook X Instagram Donate Close Skip to content Facebook X Instagram Donate The Ithaca Voice Independent Nonprofit Nonpartisan News Sign In Open Search Search for: Search Menu Sign In About Open dropdown menu The Newsroom Board of Directors Annual Report Media Kit Editorial Standards Privacy Policy Government Open dropdown menu New York State Tompkins County Ithaca Economy Open dropdown menu Development & Real Estate Public Safety Open dropdown menu Crime Education Open dropdown menu K-12 Higher Education Health Open dropdown menu Environment Health Transportation Culture Open dropdown menu Arts Sports Podcast Announcements Open dropdown menu Obituaries Opinion Support Us Open dropdown menu Donate Our Funders Sponsorship Posted in Gov + Politics County legislators mull future surveillance policy after Flock fight by Hailea Potter June 25, 2026 June 25, 2026 Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email More Share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Pinterest Share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp A Flock camera above a street in Tompkins County. Credit: Casey Martin / The Ithaca Voice ITHACA, N.Y. – Tompkins County legislators have begun initial discussions for a future policy for reviewing surveillance technology. The move comes after a months-long activist push against artificial intelligence (AI) powered “Flock” police cameras installed around the county, and as the devices are in the process of being removed. Stay informed with The Ithaca Voice! Get our top stories delivered right to your inbox at 5 a.m. weekdays. Sign up We will never share your information with anyone. The cameras, which were installed at busy intersections throughout the county, captured images of every vehicle that passes within range. An AI software scraped the images for data on each vehicle, such as its make, model, color, license plate number and bumper stickers as well as the time that vehicle passed a given camera. The information went into a database that was searchable by law enforcement agencies, including some outside Tompkins County. During Tuesday’s Public Safety Committee meeting, legislators began discussing a policy that would codify a process of reviewing surveillance technologies before they are adopted by the county. Activists have called for a similar policy for months. In April, county legislators voted 12-1 to end the county’s contract with Flock Safety , an Atlanta-based tech company. The vote came after months of community and activist concern over privacy and potential misuse of the automated license plate reader cameras in federal immigration enforcement actions. Despite that vote, activists have criticized the delays in actually removing and deactivating the cameras. Several have been vandalized since the contract vote. Tompkins County Sheriff Derek Osborne told legislators Tuesday that the county’s cameras had been removed “as far as he knew.” “I haven’t got word from them directly, but on my travels back and forth to work and out and about the community, I no longer see them where they were,” he said. “If there’s any left, there should only be maybe a couple, but I’m pretty convinced they’re down,” Osborne also confirmed that three Flock cameras had been shot and damaged. Two belonged to the county, while the third belonged to the Village of Trumansburg. He said the county did not incur expenses related to the damaged cameras. Looking forward, legislator Veronica Pillar said they want future surveillance proposals to undergo greater community involvement. “To have both community buy-in and maybe to avoid some of the kerfuffle that came with the Flock cameras, where they were already implemented before having been fully investigated by folks other than the people selling them,” Pillar said. Pillar said the goal would be to provide “meaningful public input,” while ensuring both residents and legislators are fully informed about how a technology works, what it is intended to do and the potential tradeoffs involved. Activists have previously presented legislators with model legislation and guiding documents from the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) as references for how such a policy could be structured. Travis Brooks, the chair of the Public Safety Committee, said he believed the conversation surrounding county surveillance is far from over. “I think that if we had a policy in place, we could have avoided some of the issues around Flock,” Brooks said. “I would imagine at some point in time we’ll be back, whether it’s during this three years or the next group of legislators will be having this conversation.” Brooks said he felt that any policy discussion should involve experts, county officials, legislators and community members. He added that he felt it was important to remember that many residents have voiced support for the cameras in the interest of curtailing crime. Brooks himself had previously advocated for the cameras as a crime fighting tool. “I do think there are folks that would want [police to have access to technology] and feel that’s the way to go,” Brooks said. “So hearing from different people, having different people around the table to figure out what this could look like, I don’t see any harm in it whatsoever.” Legislator Lee Shurtleff said he wanted to take caution when defining what qualifies as surveillance, noting the term could encompass far more than law enforcement technology. “I don’t see any harm in looking further into it, but ‘what is it we’re trying to get at’ really needs to be pretty closely defined,” Shurtleff said. County Attorney Maury Josephson suggested legislators would also benefit from a broader overview of the legal considerations involved with surveillance outside of the ACLU brief. “At the common law and under the Constitution, privacy is much more narrowly defined than one might assume,” Josephson said. “And we didn’t really hear much of that during the debate about Flock.” Legislators agreed to continue exploring the idea, including the possibility of inviting ACLU representatives to provide a presentation before drafting a policy. They agreed to have a more formal discussion on the proposal in August or September. Megan Zerez contributed reporting. Support Independent Journalism Independent local journalism is one of the few public goods that belongs to all of us, but it only survives when the community that relies on it steps up to sustain it. Your support ensures our reporters can keep asking hard questions and covering the stories that inform and inspire by providing trustworthy information free to everyone who wants it. If you believe our community deserves strong, independent reporting, now is the moment to invest in it. A one-time gift gives our reporters the immediate resources they need to cover breaking news, watchdog investigations, and the stories that shape daily life in Tompkins County. A monthly donation goes even further by providing steady, reliable support that strengthens our newsroom’s ability to plan ahead, retain talent, and stay fiercely independent all year long. One-time Monthly Annually One-time $5 $15 $25 Other Donation amount $ Monthly $5 $15 $25 Other Donation amount per month $ Annually $55 $125 $200 Other Donation amount per year $ Thanks for your contribution! Yes, I want to support local journalism More stories like this Tagged: cameras , flock , legislature , public safety , tompkins county Hailea Potter Hailea Potter joined the Ithaca Voice team in March 2026. She began her journalism career in 2021 working as a producer at WBNG-TV in Johnson City. After several years in broadcast, she became the local... More by Hailea Potter TOP NEWS There’s ‘no doubt’ Ira McKinley saved a woman from a dog attack. So why was he arrested? posted on June 24, 2026 Grand jury indicts Ithaca man in killing of high school student posted on June 22, 2026 After a fatal accident on Van Kirk Road, Newfielders grieve and call for safer roads posted on June 23, 2026 Search Search Facebook X Instagram Donate Independent Nonprofit News The Ithaca Voice’s nonprofit newsroom is committed to serving democracy for our readers with in-depth local reporting and resources to keep our community safe, informed, and better able to engage in civic life. The Ithaca Voice is a 501c3 nonprofit news organization. (EIN 46-5495365) Contact Us 121 E Seneca Street 2nd Floor Ithaca, New York 14850 607-391-0327 tips@ithacavoice.org © 2026 The Ithaca Voice Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Credit: Tompkins County Stay informed with The Ithaca Voice! Get our top stories delivered right to your inbox at 5 a.m. weekdays. Sign up The Ithaca Voice will never - ever - sell your personal information. Sign in or register Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Privacy Policy . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Verify your email Close We'll send a verification code to %EMAIL% . Send code Skip for now Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of The Ithaca Voice directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Ithaca Voice Newsletter Continue Gift this article Close Link Copy link Manage Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes. Manage options Manage services Manage {vendor_count} vendors Read more about these purposes Accept Deny View preferences Save preferences View preferences {title} {title} {title} Manage consent Complete your transaction Close