County legislature ends contract with Flock Safety - The Ithaca Voice Support Independent Journalism Independent local journalism is one of the few public goods that belongs to all of us, but it only survives when the community that relies on it steps up to sustain it. Your support ensures our reporters can keep asking hard questions and covering the stories that in by providing trustworthy information free to everyone who wants it. If you believe our community deserves strong, independent reporting, now is the moment to invest in it. A one-time gift gives our reporters the immediate resources they need to cover breaking news, watchdog investigations, and the stories that shape daily life in Tompkins County. A monthly donation goes even further by providing steady, reliable support that strengthens our newsroom’s ability to plan ahead, retain talent, and stay fiercely independent all year long. Yes, I want to support local journalism Close Sign In Search for: Search About Open dropdown menu The Newsroom Board of Directors Annual Report Media Kit Editorial Standards Privacy Policy Government Open dropdown menu New York State Tompkins County Ithaca Economy Open dropdown menu Development & Real Estate Public Safety Open dropdown menu Crime Education Open dropdown menu K-12 Higher Education Health Open dropdown menu Environment Health Transportation Culture Open dropdown menu Arts Sports Podcast Announcements Open dropdown menu Obituaries Opinion Support Us Open dropdown menu Donate Our Funders Sponsorship Facebook X Instagram Donate Close Skip to content Facebook X Instagram Donate The Ithaca Voice Independent Nonprofit Nonpartisan News Sign In Open Search Search for: Search Menu Sign In About Open dropdown menu The Newsroom Board of Directors Annual Report Media Kit Editorial Standards Privacy Policy Government Open dropdown menu New York State Tompkins County Ithaca Economy Open dropdown menu Development & Real Estate Public Safety Open dropdown menu Crime Education Open dropdown menu K-12 Higher Education Health Open dropdown menu Environment Health Transportation Culture Open dropdown menu Arts Sports Podcast Announcements Open dropdown menu Obituaries Opinion Support Us Open dropdown menu Donate Our Funders Sponsorship Posted in Gov + Politics County legislature ends contract with Flock Safety Anti-flock activists prevailed in a months-long pressure campaign to end Tompkins County’s contract with Flock. by Jimmy Jordan and Hailea Potter April 15, 2026 April 28, 2026 Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email More Share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Pinterest Share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp A Flock camera above a street in Tompkins County. Credit: Casey Martin / The Ithaca Voice Credit: Tompkins County Stay informed with The Ithaca Voice! Get our top stories delivered right to your inbox at 5 a.m. weekdays. Sign up The Ithaca Voice will never – ever – sell your personal information. ITHACA, N.Y. — The Tompkins County Legislature ended its use of a controversial AI-powered camera system Tuesday. Stay informed with The Ithaca Voice! Get our top stories delivered right to your inbox at 5 a.m. weekdays. Sign up We will never share your information with anyone. Legislators voted 12-1 to end the county’s contract with Flock Safety, an Atlanta-based tech company. Flock’s cameras capture images of vehicles, which are then processed through AI-powered software. Law enforcement can search the data set with terms such as vehicle color, make, or even just for dents. The Flock system allows police officers to track and estimate the paths of vehicles. The legislature’s decision comes after months of organized pushback from activists and community members who decried the presence of Flock Safety cameras in Ithaca and Tompkins County. The same organizers successfully swayed the members of the City of Ithaca Common Council, which voted on March 4 to end the city’s contract with Flock. Surveillance and sanctuary status While the technology has been promoted as a powerful tool to promote public safety, critics have raised concerns about the spread of mass surveillance and the potential for data gathered by Flock to fall into the hands of federal law enforcement agencies, such as the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). Tompkins County is a “sanctuary” jurisdiction. The legislature previously instructed the sheriff’s office not to cooperate with federal law enforcement’s immigration crackdown. The Trump administration’s immigration crackdown has faced wide criticism for violations of due process , inhumane treatment of detainees , and the use of violent tactics in some cases. The sheriff’s office has restrictions on what agencies can access Flock data gathered by its cameras. However, activists have argued those safeguards aren’t airtight, and that Flock’s presence threatens the effectiveness of the county’s sanctuary status. The discussion that spurred the decision happened at an April 7 meeting, where dozens of organizers appeared en masse. The legislature’s decision was, in part, due to a loss of faith in the company. Legislator Veronica Pillar, a member of the Democratic Socialists of America, said they thought Flock was “irresponsible” and “untrustworthy.” Legislator Deborah Dawson criticized Flock, but pushed back on the idea that the cameras constituted surveillance. She said she thought the community “seems to conflate license plate readers with surveillance.” She added that she thought the company was not the right contractor for the county to partner with. “It’s clear to me that Flock is not the contractor that we want to move forward with in any event, largely because it is a company that has allowed itself to be co-opted by a federal administration that consistently subverts our justice system,” Dawson said. Anti-flock organizer Dirk Trachy said in a public comment that federal immigration policy is about “ethnic cleansing” and that Flock cameras could assist ICE operations. “We need to protect people from the federal government. That’s what we have to do. That is where society is right now,” Trachy said. Community safety concerns The move to end the county’s relationship with Flock was not without some countervailing arguments. Legislator Judith Hubbard said she supported removing Flock cameras, but noted that some members of the communities impacted most by violent crimes have expressed support for the technology. “I hope that as we explore alternatives, that we have a way of hearing from the people who have been previously impacted by high crime areas and that we can dedicate resources to making those neighborhoods safer without requiring surveillance of the rest of us,” Hubbard said. Ana Ortiz, a community activist who runs the food pantry No Más Lágrimas, said she believed the West Village affordable housing complex where she lives will be less safe without the cameras, citing a recent shooting in the community. “If you’re not gonna have security cameras taking care of our neighborhood. So we have to find a solution to make it keep it safety,” Ortiz said. New plans for GIVE grant The county’s relationship with Flock originally grew out of participation in the Gun Involved Violence Elimination (GIVE) program run by the New York State Division of Criminal Justice Services. During Tuesday’s meeting, County Attorney Maury Josephson said the county intends to continue participating in GIVE without interruption for this grant year by allocating funds to other policing strategies. Tompkins County Sheriff Derek Osborne said the application for the funding was due last Thursday and that he anticipates it will still be received. The county previously received a $225,000 GIVE grant in 2025. Osborne explained that the sheriff’s office is getting price quotes on police camera trailers and that the agency is still in the early stages of exploring that option. These units, which are also called mobile surveillance units, can be towed to “hotspots” in the area, according to the sheriff. He added these units do possibly have an option for license plate reader capability, but made clear that more research will need to be done. “I don’t know if they’re going to work or be feasible or not,” He said. “They look nice, but they’re extremely expensive. They’re like over $70,000 for one, so at best we maybe can get two.” Legislature Chair Shawna Black said this could give the county the option to appease those who do support the additional monitoring, “I think the positive thing about some of the trailers was that it was very clear that there are certain neighborhoods in our community that actually prefer surveillance and would like to see that in their neighborhoods,” Black said. However, Tompkins County Legislator Mike Sigler raised concerns that this option could rehash the same surveillance backlash. Osborne added that his worry lies more in the time period between the end of Flock cameras and the implementation of new devices, in regards to violent crime. “I imagine you probably will get questions and yeah, these are cameras that do similar work.” Osborne acknowledged. “But I’m hoping that if we just deploy them to areas as need arises that maybe that’ll be the difference.” After the meeting, Osborne said in an email he was disappointed in the legislature’s decision. “While I’m disappointed to lose such a tool, I respect that these are not always easy conversations and that people can have differing perspectives on how best to serve our community,” he said in part. Support Independent Journalism Independent local journalism is one of the few public goods that belongs to all of us, but it only survives when the community that relies on it steps up to sustain it. Your support ensures our reporters can keep asking hard questions and covering the stories that inform and inspire by providing trustworthy information free to everyone who wants it. If you believe our community deserves strong, independent reporting, now is the moment to invest in it. A one-time gift gives our reporters the immediate resources they need to cover breaking news, watchdog investigations, and the stories that shape daily life in Tompkins County. A monthly donation goes even further by providing steady, reliable support that strengthens our newsroom’s ability to plan ahead, retain talent, and stay fiercely independent all year long. One-time Monthly Annually One-time $5 $15 $25 Other Donation amount $ Monthly $5 $15 $25 Other Donation amount per month $ Annually $55 $125 $200 Other Donation amount per year $ Thanks for your contribution! Yes, I want to support local journalism More stories like this Tagged: cameras , flock , tompkins county Jimmy Jordan Jimmy Jordan is the managing editor of the The Ithaca Voice. He has called Ithaca home since 2016, and joined The Ithaca voice in 2021 as a general assignment reporter. He stepped into his role as editor... More by Jimmy Jordan Hailea Potter Hailea Potter joined the Ithaca Voice team in March 2026. She began her journalism career in 2021 working as a producer at WBNG-TV in Johnson City. After several years in broadcast, she became the local... More by Hailea Potter TOP NEWS Newfield woman struck while in road, flown to hospital posted on May 8, 2026 Dozens march in King Ferry after another immigrant dairy worker is arrested posted on May 11, 2026 Cornell opens investigation after university president backs car into students posted on May 7, 2026 Search Search Facebook X Instagram Donate Independent Nonprofit News The Ithaca Voice’s nonprofit newsroom is committed to serving democracy for our readers with in-depth local reporting and resources to keep our community safe, informed, and better able to engage in civic life. The Ithaca Voice is a 501c3 nonprofit news organization. (EIN 46-5495365) Contact Us 121 E Seneca Street 2nd Floor Ithaca, New York 14850 607-391-0327 tips@ithacavoice.org © 2026 The Ithaca Voice Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Sign in Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Create an account Sign in to an existing account Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Privacy Policy . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of The Ithaca Voice directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Ithaca Voice Newsletter Continue Gift this article Close Link Copy link Manage Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes. Manage options Manage services Manage {vendor_count} vendors Read more about these purposes Accept Deny View preferences Save preferences View preferences {title} {title} {title} Manage consent Loading Comments... You must be logged in to post a comment. Complete your transaction Close