source: packet.pdf
sha256: 16ebd6d2ff12e2c8b5608c01d510581e65a8f77ad01f5ecc2d93906978819b5e
pages: 466
ocr_pages: 280
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission 
July 23, 2024
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Seema Patel, Chair
Adam Nugent, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Adam Klafter
Margaret Williams
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: July 23, 2024
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 870 7040 1902      Passcode: 880408
Commissioner Williams will attend via teleconference from:
32 West Clark St.
Eureka, CA 95501
The Planning Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the Regular meetings of 6.11.24 and 6.25.24.
CEQA: This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
2.
1500 and 1510 Fashion Island Blvd. – Findings of General Plan Conformance – Resolution Adoption
Adopt a Resolution finding that the proposed purpose and extent of County of San Mateo’s acquisition of the real
property located at 1500 and 1510 Fashion Island Blvd. conforms to Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040.
CEQA: Pursuant to Section 15378(b)(5) of the CEQA Guidelines, the Planning Commission’s finding of General Plan
conformance is not considered a project for the purposes of CEQA because it is an administrative activity of

--- page 2 ---
government that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment.
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's
jurisdiction that are not on the agenda.  Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of
15 minutes for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's
jurisdiction. The Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the
agenda, but shall refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 and Section
27.08.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those
issues raised at the public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing.
Some public hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
 
3.
31-57 South B Street – New Four-Story Office and Commercial Building (PA-2022-089)
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) for the construction of a new four-
story office and commercial building at 31-57 South B Street and Vesting Tentative Parcel Map to merge four lots
into one lot, based on the Findings for Approval and subject to the Conditions of Approval; and adopt the
Mitigated Negative Declaration and find significant environmental impacts of the project would be reduced to a
less-than-significant level with the implementation of mitigation measures.
CEQA: In accordance with CEQA, an Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration (IS/MND) has been prepared
to assess the project’s environmental impact. The IS/MND concludes that this project would not have significant
effects to the environment with implementation of appropriate Mitigation Measures.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.For
transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: planningcommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest

--- page 3 ---
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Planning Division Office at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 
File ID: 24-8975
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
July 23, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Regular meetings of 6.11.24 and 6.25.24.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Regular Meeting Minutes 6.11.24
Att 2 - Regular Meeting Minutes 6.25.24
STAFF CONTACT
Ashley Snodgrass , Administrative Assistant
asnodgrass@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7218

--- page 5 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 6/11/24
1
COMMISSION MEMBERS
John Ebneter, Chair
Seema Patel, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Margaret Williams
Vacant
City of San Mateo
Regular Meeting Minutes
Planning Commission
Tuesday, June 11, 2024
Hybrid 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
CALL TO ORDER 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
ROLL CALL
Present: 
Chair John Ebneter, Vice Chair Seema Patel, Commissioner Adam Nugent
Absent: 
Commissioner Margaret Williams
PUBLIC COMMENT: 
None.
STUDY SESSION
1.
922 South Claremont Avenue – Pre-Application Review for a New Self-Storage Facility (PA-2023-046)
Associate Planner, Laura Richstone, presented an overview of the architectural and site design, and uses of the 
proposed project. 
Applicant, Mike Kang, presented the project.
 
Public Comment:
Public commenter, Pedro Sarabia, supported the project’s location and benefits to the community. Sarabia also 
suggested traffic management for the area.
Commissioner Questions: 
Commissioners asked clarifying questions on the location of the loading zones, photos of the existing elevations of 
the buildings, minimum requirements for solar, the location of the proposed bicycle path, and requirements for 
bicycle parking.
Commissioner Comments: 
All Commissioners expressed support for the project. Commissioners supported the building design, lighting, 
placement of the structure, and benefits to the community. Commissioners voiced concern for the setback on the 
property line, potential impacts to an existing historical structure, and loss of job opportunities.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
Election of Officers
Election of Chair and Vice Chair, annual rotation. Planning Manager, Manira Sandhir, reviewed and presented 
options for electing a new Chair and Vice-Chair.

--- page 6 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 6/11/24
2
Nomination of Seema Patel as Chair and Adam Nugent as Vice Chair.
Moved:
Ebneter, Seconded: Nugent
Ayes:
Ebneter, Patel, Nugent
Noes:
None
Absent: 
Williams
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Planning Manager, Manira Sandhir, provided updates on items for future Planning Commission meetings and announced 
the cancellation of the Regular Meeting on July 9, 2024. There were no other reports from Commissioners or the City 
Attorney.
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 7:49 pm.
APPROVED BY:
___________________________________
John Ebneter, Chair
SUBMITTED BY:
___________________________________
Ashley Snodgrass, Administrative Assistant

--- page 7 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 6/25/24
1
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Seema Patel, Chair
Adam Nugent, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Margaret Williams
Vacant
City of San Mateo
Regular Meeting Minutes
Planning Commission
Tuesday, June 25, 2024
Hybrid 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
CALL TO ORDER 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
ROLL CALL
Present: 
Chair Seema Patel, Vice Chair Adam Nugent, Commissioners John Ebneter and Margaret Williams
Absent: 
None
PUBLIC COMMENT: 
None.
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the Regular meeting of 5.28.2024.
Moved:
Williams, Seconded: Ebneter
Ayes:
Patel, Nugent, Ebneter, Williams
Noes:
None
Absent: 
None
STUDY SESSION
2.
500 E. 4th Ave. (Block 20) – Revised Seven-Story Office/Residential Mixed-Use Building
Principal Planner, Elaine Ling, presented an overview of the architectural and site design, and uses of the proposed 
project. 
Applicant, Mike Field, presented the project.
 
Public Comment:
Public commenters included Linda Simonsen, Laurie Watanuki, David Light, Michele Fernandes, Francie Souza, 
Dianne Whitaker, Lisa Vande Voorde, Laurie Hietter, and Sudhir Mathur. Public commenters expressed concerns 
related to the balance of the proposed office and housing uses, lack of ground floor retail, building design, height, 
massing, setbacks, parking, shadow, privacy and construction impacts on Safari Kid Preschool, impacts on historic 
resources, and financing assurance before demolition of the buildings at 411 South Claremont Street. Public 
commenters suggested enhancing the Spanish Revival architectural design, fully evaluating potential impact to the 
historic properties, adding more sycamore trees to 5th Avenue, reducing office space, and increasing setbacks. One 
public commenter supported the architectural style of the building.

--- page 8 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 6/25/24
2
Commissioner Questions: 
Commissioners asked clarifying questions on the use of the historic resource building, demolition of an historic 
resource, removal of Safari Kid Preschool property from the project area, applicability of objective design standards 
(ODS) to the project and how the building design aligned with ODS, parking requirements, density bonus, 
concessions and waivers, impacts of General Plan 2040, and the decision-making entity for the project.
Commissioner Comments: 
Commissioners expressed support for the design modifications, arrangement of residential units, inclusion of more 
two-bedroom residential units, the tree canopy along Delaware Street, massing, and preservation of the Japanese 
American Community Center (an eligible historic resource). Commissioners expressed concern about the 
construction impacts on Safari Kid Preschool and balancing residential and commercial development. 
Commissioners suggested requiring an active pedestrian zone for the ground floor, using a tile edge for the 
transition between the office  and residential uses, incorporating more Mediterranean/Spanish Revival style design 
elements to strengthen building overall design, adding an art piece to the façade facing the Japanese American 
Community Center, reducing parking and office space to increase residential units, and finding a long-term solution 
to preserve and maintain surrounding historic resources. 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Community Development Director, Zachary Dahl, provided updates on items for future Planning Commission meetings, 
announced the cancellation of the Regular Meeting on July 9, 2024, and announced that a new Planning Commissioner 
will join the Regular Meeting on July 23, 2024. There were no other reports from Commissioners or the City Attorney.
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 9:30 pm.
APPROVED BY:
___________________________________
Seema Patel, Chair
SUBMITTED BY:
___________________________________
Ashley Snodgrass, Administrative Assistant

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 
File ID: 24-8894
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
July 23, 2024 
SUBJECT:
1500 and 1510 Fashion Island Blvd. – Findings of General Plan Conformance – Resolution Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution finding that the proposed purpose and extent of County of San Mateo’s acquisition of the real property 
located at 1500 and 1510 Fashion Island Blvd. conforms to Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040.
BACKGROUND:
On May 24, 2024, the County of San Mateo (County) filed a request (Attachment 2) for a General Pan Conformance 
determination with the intent to acquire 1500 and 1510 Fashion Island Blvd. (PA-2024-028). In accordance with California 
Government Code Section 65402(a), the Planning Commission is required to make a finding of General Plan conformance 
whenever a City or County proposes to acquire property within a municipality with an adopted General Plan.
Site Description and Existing Uses
The subject property consists of two, three-story buildings on one parcel located at 1500 and 1510 Fashion Island Blvd. 
with a parcel area of approximately 6.14 acres (Assessor’s Parcel Number 035-550-040). The property is bound by Fashion 
Island Blvd. to the north, State Route 92 to the south, Baker Way to the east, and Mariner’s Island Blvd. to the west, as 
shown on the location map included as Attachment 3. The property is commonly known as “Bridgepointe Office Park” and 
consists of approximately 132,029 square-feet of office uses, and surface parking surrounding the two buildings.
The site is zoned E1-0.62/R (Executive Office, Residential Overlay District—Mixed Use) and has a land use designation of 
Mixed-Use High (5-8 stories, 100-130 dwelling units per acre, subject to voter approval in November of 2024) in the Strive 
San Mateo General Plan 2040 (General Plan) land use map included as Attachment 4. The site is also identified in the City’s 
2023-2031 Housing Element Sites Inventory as a housing opportunity site with an estimated capacity of 274 residential 
units. Lastly, the site is within Site II – Office Complexes of the Mariner’s Island Specific Plan which allows commercial uses 
such as offices and financial institutions.
Purpose of Acquisition
The County of San Mateo is proposing to acquire the property to provide administrative, executive, and professional 
offices for County of San Mateo programs. The County does not propose to change the existing land use (office) at this 
time. As stated in the request letter (Attachment 2), the County may consider developing residential uses in the future, as 
allowed by the City’s General Plan and zoning code requirements.
General Plan Conformance
As described above, the subject property at 1500 and 1510 Fashion Island Blvd. is intended to provide administrative, 
executive, and professional office uses for County of San Mateo programs. This proposed land use would continue the

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
existing office land use and would be consistent with the site’s General Plan land use designation of Mixed-Use High. Table 
LU-1 Land Use Designations in the Land Use Element describes the Mixed-Use High designation as the following:
Mixed-Use High
“This designation allows high-density mixed-use buildings that provide a mix of commercial, office, and/or 
residential uses within the same site or building. It is intended to allow a mix of uses near major streets, train 
stations, and shopping centers, and within Downtown.”
In addition, the proposed acquisition of 1500 and 1510 Fashion Island Blvd. and continuation of the existing office uses 
conform to the following General Plan Land Use Element policies:
Policy LU 11.1
Economic Development. Prioritize the retention and expansion of existing businesses and attract new businesses 
that strengthen and diversify the City’s economic base. 
Policy LU 14.2
Public Agency Developments. Require developments constructed by other governmental agencies to conform to 
the City’s General Plan, Zoning Ordinance, and other development regulations, to the extent possible.
The proposed acquisition would retain the existing office use by providing administrative, executive, and professional 
offices for County of San Mateo programs. The acquisition would bring employment opportunities to the City and continue 
a previously permitted land use. 
In addition, since this site is identified as a housing opportunity site in the City’s Housing Element, staff engaged with the 
County during the acquisition process to ensure awareness and potential support for achieving the City’s housing 
production goals.  In response, the County provided a letter that acknowledged that this site could potentially 
accommodate 275 housing units and that their acquisition of the property does not preclude consideration of the site for a 
future housing project. A copy of this letter is included as Attachment 5.
Next Steps
Upon Planning Commission adoption of the proposed resolution finding that the proposed purpose and extent of County 
of San Mateo’s acquisition of the real property located at 1500 and 1510 Fashion Island Blvd. conforms to the General 
Plan, the County can decide whether to move forward with the acquisition of the property for office uses to support 
County programs.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The County of San Mateo will provide funds for the proposed real property acquisition. The City will be nominally affected 
financially by the loss of property tax revenue.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Pursuant to Section 15378(b)(5) of the CEQA Guidelines, the Planning Commission’s finding of General Plan conformance is 
not considered a project for the purposes of CEQA because it is an administrative activity of government that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
In accordance with the Brown Act (Government Code section 54950 et seq.), notice of this agenda item was posted 72 
hours in advance of the meeting.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Resolution
Att 2 – Request for General Plan Conformance
Att 3 – Location Map

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Att 4 – General Plan Land Use Map
Att 5 – Letter from County of San Mateo - May 20, 2024
STAFF CONTACT
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner
rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7211

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2024)
FINDING THAT THE PROPOSED PURPOSE AND EXTENT OF COUNTY OF SAN MATEO’S ACQUISITION OF THE 
REAL PROPERTY LOCATED AT 1500 AND 1510 FASHION ISLAND BLVD. CONFORMS TO THE GENERAL PLAN
WHEREAS, California Government Code Section 65402(b) requires that if a general plan has been 
adopted, no real property shall be acquired or disposed of until the location, purpose and extent of such 
acquisition or disposal has been submitted to and reported upon by the planning agency as to conformity with 
said adopted general plan; 
WHEREAS, the City Council adopted Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040 (General Plan) on March 18, 
2024;
WHEREAS, the proposed acquisition of 1500 and 1510 Fashion Island Blvd. by the County of San Mateo 
to be used as administrative, executive, and professional offices for County of San Mateo programs conforms to 
the Mixed-Use High land use category in the General Plan as defined below:
Mixed-Use High
This designation allows high-density mixed-use buildings that provide a mix of commercial, office, 
and/or residential uses within the same site or building. It is intended to allow a mix of uses near major 
streets, train stations, and shopping centers, and within Downtown.
WHEREAS, the proposed acquisition of 1500 and 1510 Fashion Island Blvd. by the County of San Mateo 
to be used as administrative, executive, and professional offices for County of San Mateo programs conforms to 
the following policies of the General Plan:
Policy LU 11.1
Economic Development. Prioritize the retention and expansion of existing businesses and attract new 
businesses that strengthen and diversify the City’s economic base. 
Policy LU 14.2
Public Agency Developments. Require developments constructed by other governmental agencies to 
conform to the City’s General Plan, Zoning Ordinance, and other development regulations, to the extent 
possible.
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission, in its capacity as the Planning Agency, reviewed the purpose and 
intent of the acquisition of 1500 and 1510 Fashion Island Blvd. for conformity with the City’s General Plan; and, 
WHEREAS, in accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5), the Planning Commission’s finding 
of General Plan conformance is an administrative action that will not impact the environment and is therefore 
not a “project” for the purposes of CEQA.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY 
FINDS AND RESOLVES that:

--- page 13 ---
1.
Based on the foregoing, and in accordance with Government Code Section 65402, the Planning 
Commission hereby finds that the extent and purpose of the acquisition of the real property located 
at 1500 and 1510 Fashion Island Blvd. is in conformity with the City’s General Plan.

--- page 14 ---
COUNTYor SAN MATEO Caroline Shaker
COUNTY EXECUTIVE’S OFFICE Real Property Manager

555 County Center, 4th Floor
Redwood City, CA 94063
650-363-4047
www.smcgov.org

DATE: May 16, 2024
TO: City of San Mateo
c/o

Community Development Department

FROM: Caroline Shaker
County of San Mateo
County Executive’s Office, Real Property Division

SUBJECT: Request for Determination of Conformity with the City of San Mateo’s General Plan for
the County’s Proposed Acquisition of 1500 & 1510 Fashion Island Boulevard, in the

City of San Mateo, Pursuant to Government Code Section 65402

In accordance with Government Code Section 65402, the County of San Mateo requests a
determination as to the conformity with the City of San Mateo’s General Plan of the proposed
acquisition of the property described in this Memorandum by the County of San Mateo.



--- page 15 ---
LOCATION: The property is identified as San Mateo County Assessor's Parcel Number 035-550-
040, commonly known as 1500 & 1510 Fashion Island Boulevard, San Mateo, and as depicted below
(“Property” or “Bridgepointe Office Park Property”). The present zoning of the Property is E1 —
Executive Park.

j D SS p \
f ( 2 42? are!
he \ ae ae
\ ea os Ee o x ie
\ “ EE < x

Fa. oat 204

OS Ve, / \
~~ SS f 2
Sea }

~ > MARINERS ISAS

a7
K,

©
pe

EXTENT: A fee simple interest in the Property, comprised of two three-story buildings, with a gross
building area of approximately 132,029 square feet, on a parcel of land consisting of approximately
267,632 square feet of space. The proposal necessitating this report is for site acquisition only; no
specific construction project, public or private, is contemplated at this time.

PURPOSE: The County’s purpose for acquiring the Bridgepointe Office Park Property is to provide
needed administrative, executive, and professional offices for County programs consistent with the
City’s current E-1 zoning and the designation of the property in the Land Use element of the City’s
2030 General Plan. Accordingly, no change in current land uses is contemplated at this time. The
County is a recognized leader in supporting affordable housing development for a range of income
levels, from extremely low to moderate income households. The County acknowledges that the City
has identified this site as potentially accommodating approximately 275 affordable housing units in
the Sites Inventory of its 2040 Housing Element and that the County’s acquisition does not preclude
consideration of the site for future appropriate housing projects. Given its commitment to the
development of housing at all income levels, the County may consider future feasible development
proposals that preserve existing office uses but incorporate the addition of affordable housing units to
the extent allowed by the General Plan land use designation, zoning, and City parking requirements
for all uses on the site.


--- page 16 ---


--- page 17 ---
ATT 3 — LOCATION MAP

PA-2024-028
Address(es): 1500 and 1510 Fashion Island Blvd A
San Mateo, CA 94404 -N-

Parcel Number(s): 035-550-040



--- page 18 ---
ATT 4— GENERAL PLAN LAND USE MAP

PA-2024-028

Address: 1500 and 1510 Fashion Island Blvd.
San Mateo, CA 94404

Parcel Number: 035-550-040

A LEGEND ,

-N- Mixed-Use High (5-8 stories, 100-130 du/ac
N General Plan __] gh ( (ac)
A Land Use Designation

Source: San Mateo General Plan Figure LU-1 Land Use Map, March 18, 2024
https://strivesanmateo.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/StriveSanMateo _GP2040 Adopted 3-18-2024 Web.pdf



--- page 19 ---
Michael P. Callagy

COU NTY oF SAN MATEO County Executive Officer /
COUNTY EXECUTIVE’S OFFICE Clerk of the Board

County Government Center
400 County Center, 1st Floor
Redwood City, CA 94063
650-363-4121 T
650-363-1916 F
www.smcgov.org

May 20, 2024

Alex Khojikian, City Manager
San Mateo City Hall

330 West 20'" Avenue

San Mateo, CA 94403

Dear Mr. Khojikian:

| write to follow up our recent conversations regarding the County of San Mateo’s intended acquisition
of the property commonly referred to as the BridgePointe Office Park, located at 1500-1510 Fashion
Island Boulevard, in San Mateo, California.

While the County’s intent in acquiring the BridgePointe Office Park property is to provide needed
administrative, executive, and professional offices for County programs consistent with the City’s
current E-1 zoning and the property’s present designation in the Land Use element of the City’s 2030
General Plan, the County is a recognized leader in supporting affordable housing development for a
range of income levels, from extremely low to moderate income households.

The County acknowledges that the City has identified this site as potentially accommodating
approximately 275 affordable housing units in the Sites Inventory of the City’s 2040 Housing Element
and that the County’s acquisition of the property does not preclude consideration of the site for future
appropriate housing projects. Given its commitment to the development of housing at all income
levels, the County would consider future feasible development proposals that preserve existing office
uses but incorporate the addition of affordable housing units to the extent allowed by the General
Plan land use designation, zoning, and City parking requirements for all uses on the site.

Sincerely,
Mike Callagy
County Executive/Clerk of the Board



--- page 20 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 24-8921
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
July 23, 2024
SUBJECT:
31-57 South B Street – New Four-Story Office and Commercial Building (PA-2022-089)
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) for the construction of a new four-story office 
and commercial building at 31-57 South B Street and Vesting Tentative Parcel Map to merge four lots into one lot, based 
on the Findings for Approval and subject to the Conditions of Approval; and adopt the Mitigated Negative Declaration and 
find significant environmental impacts of the project would be reduced to a less-than-significant level with the 
implementation of mitigation measures. 
BACKGROUND:
The applicant, DTSM Donut Delite Ventures, LLC, has submitted a Planning Application (PA-2022-089) to demolish two 
existing commercial structures at 31-57 South B Street and to construct a new four-story office and commercial building. 
The proposed building would consist of approximately 5,302 square feet of ground floor retail/restaurant space and 
approximately 35,888 square feet of office space on the upper floors for a total of 41,190 square feet. On May 10, 2022, 
the Planning Commission held a study session to review a zoning reclassification to Central Business District (CBD), which 
has since been completed, and conceptual plans for this mixed-use office and retail development project at this site. 
Commission comments were generally in support of the project design.
Since the study session, the applicant has refined the building design based on Commission input mainly to include 
additional traditional design elements throughout the building. 
Project Site
The project site, consisting of four individual parcels, is located at 31-57 South B Street on the north corner of 1st Avenue 
and S. B Street. The site is 13,887 square feet (0.32 acre) in size, with a General Plan Land Use Designation of Downtown 
Retail Core 1 and a zoning designation of CBD. It is also immediately adjacent to the Downtown Historic District and located 
in an area of high archaeological sensitivity. The existing site consists of restaurant, retail and personal service uses, a 
surface parking lot, and a shared private alleyway providing back-of-house access to multiple properties. Surrounding uses 
include the Downtown Caltrain Station to the east, and mix of commercial uses to the north, west and south of the project 
site. Buildings along South B Street range between one to five stories in height. The buildings along Baldwin and First 
Avenue range between one to four stories. A location map showing the project in its vicinity is included as Attachment 2.
Project Description
The proposed four-story commercial and office building has an approximate total floor area of 41,190 square feet, with 
1 The project application was deemed complete prior to the adoption of the General Plan 2040; therefore, General Plan 2030 applies to 
this project.

--- page 21 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
5,302 square feet of ground floor retail/restaurant space and 35,888 square feet of office space on the upper floors. The 
ground floor may be divided into multiple commercial/retail and office tenant spaces and the second through fourth floors 
consist of open floor plan that could also be utilized as multiple office spaces. The project also includes two ground level 
public gathering areas, a bike room and associated facilities at the ground floor, and roof level common open space 
terraces accessible from the third and fourth floors. The proposed project does not include any on-site parking.  
The overall architectural style is categorized as contemporary due to its use of various building materials and massing 
techniques to distinguish between the ground level commercial uses and the upper-level office uses in the building. The 
project provides new sidewalks and landscaping along both frontages including shrubs and street trees. All three existing 
street trees at 1st Avenue are proposed for preservation. Open space areas with street furniture are proposed within 
covered corner entry plazas located along 1st Avenue at the intersections of South B Street and Transit Center Way. In 
addition, private, uncovered terraces are proposed on the third and fourth story of the building.
The design plans showing the proposed site plan, floor plans, exterior elevations, and landscaping as well as 3-D color 
renderings are included in Attachment 3.
Applicable Code and Policy Review
General Plan and Zoning Code
The General Plan 2030 Land Use Map designates the project site as Downtown Retail Core, which is intended to combine a 
diversity of uses to support a thriving downtown. A list of applicable General Plan 2030 policies and a discussion of the 
project’s conformance are included in the approval resolution in Attachment 1. The project is consistent with Land Use 
policies LU 1.10 Commercial Development and 3.1 Downtown Plan, in that, the project combines compatible commercial 
uses (office, retail and restaurants) at a high intensity (floor area ratio), which complement the existing commercial uses in 
the vicinity and greater downtown. This furthers the downtown as the social, cultural, and economic center of the City, as 
encouraged in the General Plan. Lastly, Land Use policy LU 2.4 Downtown Plan encourages ground-level commercial uses 
to promote pedestrian activity and a diversity of services and activities.
Consistent with its land use designation, the project site is zoned CBD (Central Business District), which permits office, 
retail, restaurant, and other commercial uses. The CBD zone is also subject to development standards in Municipal Code 
Chapter 27.38, including but not limited to floor area ratio, setbacks, and building height limits. A project data table listing 
the applicable Zoning Code standards and the project’s conformance to them is included in Attachment 4. As noted in the 
project data table, the project is within the maximum building height of 55-feet and maximum floor area ratio of 3.0.
The project does not propose parking as it is located directly adjacent to a major transit stop, which is the Downtown San 
Mateo Caltrain station. Therefore, pursuant to Government Code Section 65863.2 (AB 2097), this project is not subject to 
minimum parking requirements or the payment of parking in-lieu fees. 
Downtown Area Plan
The project is subject to the Downtown Area Plan, which establishes goals and policies to implement the overall vision of 
the downtown. Applicable goals that pertain to the project include:

Enhance Downtown’s Role as the City Center and Maintain Its Unique Sense of Place

Enhance the Vitality and Activity of Downtown by Incorporating an Overall Good Mix and Diversity of Uses

Enhance the Downtown’s Pedestrian Environment and Enhance the Safety and Attractiveness of Downtown
The project site is located within the Downtown Retail Core sub-area in the Downtown Plan. The goals and policies for the 
Downtown Retail Core Sub-Area recommend a concentration of retail shopping and active commercial uses on the ground 
floor level, with office or residential uses on upper levels to support ground-level businesses.
In conformance with the Downtown Area Plan, the project combines ground floor commercial uses that would be a 
mixture of retail and restaurant uses within the required retail frontage area and office use, and office use on the upper 
floors. The office uses generally support existing retail and commercial service uses in the greater downtown area. The

--- page 22 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
building design incorporates storefront glazing systems (doors and windows) and bi-folding door systems for most of the 
exterior facing ground floor areas along the 1St Avenue and South B Street frontages to encourage pedestrian activity and 
visibility into ground-floor activity. Lastly, the project proposes new street trees, streetlights, and sidewalk paving 
consistent with both the Downtown Core and recently constructed projects in the same vicinity. A list of applicable 
Downtown Area Plan policies and the project’s conformance is included in Attachment 1.
Site Plan and Architectural Review
The project requires a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) approval for construction of a new building in accordance 
with City of San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Section 27.08.030 and approval of a vesting tentative parcel map to merge 
four parcels into one. A condition of approval requires that the map be recorded prior to the issuance of the 
superstructure permit. The project proposes an office and commercial building that complements the existing 
architectural character of the neighborhood through the provision of both traditional and more contemporary building 
elements and materials. Exposed structural mass timber will be visible from the exterior and will be used for the outside 
corner support for the canopy at 1st Street and South B Street.  Brick veneer is the dominant exterior siding material, 
accented with metal panels with vertical patterns in the recessed window bays and as a horizontal band just below the 
roof line of the fourth floor.  A steel canopy is proposed at the top of the second story along South B Street (west 
elevation).  The building articulation includes covered entry plazas on the ground floor at the 1st Avenue and South B Street 
and Transit Center Way and South B Street corners of the building.  The building also has stepbacks on the third floor along 
the South B Street elevation (west) and fourth story along the 1st Avenue (south) elevation, which reduces the massing and 
creates uncovered rooftop terraces.  A glass railing system is proposed to enclose the rooftop terraces and the building has 
uniform glazing with dark metal cladding around the proposed windows and exterior doors.  
In compliance with SMMC Chapter 23.60, Art in Public Places, all commercial and multi-family projects with a building 
permit valuation of three million dollars or more are required to install public art at a valuation of 1.19% of the total 
construction valuation.  On January 1, 2024, the Civic Arts Commission reviewed three potential public art installations 
proposed for the stairwell tower on the east elevation, which is the preferred location of on-site public since it is highly 
visible from the train station.  The proposed art installations included a mural, tiled mosaic, and a 3-D wall sculpture.  In 
general, the Civic Arts Committee (CAC) preferred the tiled mosaic and 3-D wall sculpture over the mural and also 
preferred fitting the artwork within the whole area or within the center of the wall, and not breaking up artwork into three 
panels as proposed.  A final public art design would need to be reviewed and approved by the Civic Arts Commission 
pursuant to the requirements in Chapter 23.60 of the Municipal Code. However, since the final decision about the public 
art installation is with the applicant and the CAC, a rendering of the building’s east elevation without the art installation 
can be viewed on Sheet A0.5 of the design plans.
With regards to street trees and landscaping, the project proposes to preserve all three existing street trees along 1st 
Avenue and to plant four new street trees along the project frontages. The project also provides new at-grade planters, 
raised planters, and stormwater treatment areas with a variety of plants, vertical plantings, site benches, and specialty 
paving to activate ground level open spaces and to enhance the pedestrian environment.
As proposed, and with the conditions of approval, the project can meet the applicable findings to approve the SPAR, which 
are discussed in greater detail in Attachment 1. 
Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan
The Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan contains recommendations to improve the pedestrian realm throughout the City. 
Appendix A of the Pedestrian Master Plan provides guidance for sidewalk designs and types specific to a project’s land use 
and street parking configuration. The applicable sidewalk standard along both frontages is A.6 Retail/Commercial Type A 
Parallel Parking. This standard recommends an overall sidewalk width ranging from 11 feet to 15 feet. 
The project proposes an overall sidewalk width ranging from 7’-6” to 11’-6” along 1st Avenue, and 9’-6” to 11’-2” along 
South B Street. It should be noted, however, that the Zoning Code requires that new developments in this zoning district 
be built to the property line unless building setbacks are for the provision of open space or landscaping. Staff’s evaluation 
of the plans conclude that the project is in substantial conformance with the Pedestrian Master Plan in that the project

--- page 23 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
meets the sidewalk guidelines and is compliant with the Zoning Code on both frontages. The project also proposes several 
improvements to pedestrian facilities including adding a curb extension, directional ramps, and truncated domes at the 
northeast corner of the intersection of South B Street and 1st Avenue. In addition, the project proposes upgrading the 
existing crosswalks to high-visibility crosswalks at all legs of the 1st Avenue and South B Street intersection and along the 
north leg at 1st Avenue and Transit Center Way. The project also results in wider sidewalk widths when compared to 
existing conditions. In addition, the project provides aesthetic and functional improvements in the pedestrian 
environment, including benches, plant containers, street trees, and bike racks.
Bicycle Master Plan
The City’s Bicycle Master Plan provides policies and recommendations to implement citywide infrastructure improvements 
to support bicycle use. The Bicycle Master Plan also lays out a proposed bicycle network of various bicycle lanes, paths and 
routes. Specific to the subject project site, the Bicycle Master Plan calls for a separated bike lane (Class IV) along the 
project’s South B Street frontage and a buffered bike lane (Class II) along the project’s 1st Avenue frontage.  The Class II 
bike lane along the project 1st Avenue frontage is shown in the applicant’s improvement plans along, however, the 
proposed bike facility along the project’s 3rd Street frontage is a Class III facility (shared with vehicular traffic).  This is an 
alternative to what the Bicycle Master Plan includes as a result of the B Street Pedestrian Mall and will be further studied 
by the City.
The project provides 18 long-term bicycle parking within a dedicated room on the first floor of the building. As required by 
the City’s Zoning Code, a total of six short-term bicycle parking spaces are provided through the installation of three bike 
racks (two bikes per rack) along the South B Street Frontage.
Design Review
On May 10, 2022, the Planning Commission discussed the pre-application and provided design input on the preliminary 
building design which is summarized in the Planning Commission’s meeting minutes included as Attachment 5.  In general, 
there was agreement amongst the Planning Commission with the following direction:

Provide more uniformity in the exterior materials between the lower and upper floors

Relate the design more to the historic building along South B Street with more traditional features and/or 
materials

Address the blank wall façade of the stairwell on the east elevation

Not in support of the canopy design at the corner of 1st Avenue and South B Street. The scale of the columns and 
canopy were suggested to be enlarged to match the building.
In addition to the Planning Commission’s review of the preliminary plans, the City obtained an independent design review 
from Cannon Design Associates, which is included as Attachment 6.  The applicant made several design revisions to 
address a number of the Planning Commission and independent design review comments as summarized below:

The glass curtain walls on the upper floors have been removed and now clad in brick to be uniform with the lower 
floors.  

Metal paneling has been added at the upper floors to provide some diversity in material.

The canopy has been increased in depth, and timber columns similar to the interior columns have been added and 
better aligns with the building scale.

Storefront typologies have been added and entry overhangs have increased in depth.

The stairwell tower on the east elevation has been updated to show the potential public art installation, or an 
alternative design with window glazing if the art is not installed. 
Transportation Analysis
Vehicle Miles Traveled Impact Analysis
A Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) (Attachment 7) was prepared by the City’s transportation consultant, Fehr & Peers, 
to analyze the project’s transportation impacts in accordance with the standards of the California Environmental Quality

--- page 24 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Act (CEQA) the City’s General Plan, and the City’s TIA Guidelines (adopted 2020). Since the implementation of Senate Bill 
743, the Governor’s Office of Planning and Research established Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) as the metric used under 
CEQA for determining the significance of transportation impacts.
Based on the City’s adopted TIA Guidelines, the TIA concludes that the project will not result in significant VMT impact as it 
meets screening criteria to exempt the project from further VMT analysis. Specifically, the project is within 0.5-mile of 
high-quality transit (Downtown San Mateo Caltrain Station) and is further qualified as exempt because the proposed 
project has a floor area ratio greater than 0.75, is consistent with the Metropolitan Commission’s (MTC) Sustainable 
Communities Strategy (SCS), provides no on-site parking, and does not result in the reduction of affordable residential 
units.
Level of Service Impact and Local Transportation Analysis
In addition to analyzing the project’s VMT impact, Fehr & Peers conducted a Level of Service (LOS) analysis at various 
study-intersections. In accordance with the City’s General Plan criteria, the City shall maintain a LOS no worse than mid 
LOS D for all signalized intersections within the City, and no worse than LOS E for all unsignalized intersections. Five study 
intersections were selected for analysis within the project vicinity as follows:
1.
Baldwin Avenue and South B Street (all-way stop-controlled) 
2.
1st Avenue and South B Street (signalized) 
3.
1st Avenue and South Claremont Street (all-way stop-controlled) 
4.
2nd Avenue and South Ellsworth Avenue (signalized) 
5.
2nd Avenue and South Claremont Street (all-way stop-controlled)
Traffic conditions at these study intersections were evaluated for the weekday AM and PM peak hours (when demands on 
the roadway are greatest) and were evaluated in these scenarios: 
1.
Existing Conditions: Existing traffic volumes (May 24, 2023)
2.
Opening Year Conditions: Existing traffic volumes plus traffic generated by nearby approved projects that are not 
yet completed or occupied
3.
Opening Year Plus Project Conditions: Opening year traffic volumes (cumulative) plus traffic generated by the 
project
4.
Cumulative No Project Conditions: Cumulative no project conditions reflect estimated future traffic volumes 
(2040) with the project trips removed from the study intersections. 
5.
Cumulative Plus Project Conditions: Cumulative plus project conditions reflect estimated future traffic volumes 
(2040), including the project-generated vehicle trips.  
The projects incorporated in the Opening Year Conditions include nearby projects that were approved at the time the 
subject project’s analysis was prepared and expected to add traffic to the study intersections, which are:

435 East 3rd Avenue Office and Residential Mixed-Use Development 

Block 21 Office and Residential Mixed-Use Development  
Overall, the TIA estimates that the project would generate a total of 388 net-new (proposed project minus existing uses) 
average daily vehicle trips, 40 net-new vehicle trips in the AM peak period, and 50 net-new vehicle trips in the PM peak 
period. As detailed in the TIA, it is not anticipated that the project will have any adverse impact to the vehicular 
transportation facilities and any delay due to the project will not degrade the LOS at any study intersection to any 
unacceptable levels in all the scenarios listed above.  
The TIA Guidelines also require that a non-CEQA local transportation analysis is conducted for land use projects that may 
have an effect on the local street system.  The following considerations were in the TIA:

Impacts to vehicle, pedestrian & bicycle site access

--- page 25 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

Parking 

Neighborhood traffic
The project does not include any driveways onto public streets. The proposed project includes 18 long-term bicycle parking 
spaces in a bike room on the ground floor and six short-term bicycle parking spaces adjacent to the public sidewalk on 
South B Street.  The project will improve the pedestrian environment by adding a curb extension to the northeast corner 
of the intersection of South B Street and 1st Avenue, add directional curb ramps and truncated domes to the northeast 
corner of the intersection of South B Street and 1st Avenue, and add a directional curb ramp and truncated domes on 1st 
Avenue at the west side of Transit Center Way. The TIA also made recommendations for additional pedestrian 
improvements based on the City of San Mateo Pedestrian Guidelines and the San Mateo TOD Pedestrian Access Plan.  
Public Works staff reviewed the recommendations and supported adding high visibility crosswalks on all legs of the 
intersection of South B Street and 1st Avenue and adding a high visibility crosswalk on the north leg of the intersection of 
1st Avenue and Transit Center Way which is this is a slight modification to the recommendation of a high visibility west leg 
crosswalk at this intersection.  
Employees and visitors driving to the project site will likely use the Transit Center Garage or the Main Street Garage to 
park their vehicles, and would use streets such El Camino Real, 3rd Avenue, and East 4th Avenue to reach freeways, and 
regional destinations. These streets are all designated as arterials in the City of San Mateo General Plan.
With regards to off-street loading berths, per the SMMC 27.64.390, the project’s proposed retail area is below the 5,000 
square-foot threshold and the proposed office space is below the 50,000 square foot threshold which would trigger the 
requirement of any off-street loading berths.  In addition, there is an existing on-street loading zone, with a painted yellow 
curb, on 1st Avenue, on the northwest corner of the intersection of 1st Avenue and South B Street that Public Works staff 
supported using instead of creating a new loading zone.  The proposed project will accommodate trash pickup via the 
site’s existing rear alleyway, which is accessed from 1st Avenue.  
Transportation Demand Management Plan
The project will implement a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan prepared by the City’s TDM Consultant, 
Steer, which is included as Attachment 8. While the project does not cause a VMT impact in accordance with CEQA, the 
City/County Association of Governments (C/CAG) of San Mateo County requires projects that generate more than 100 
average daily trips to implement trip reduction measures. Based on C/CAG’s guidelines, this project is required to reach a 
minimum 25% trip reduction through TDM measures.
Once implemented, the TDM Plan is estimated to result in an overall trip reduction of 29%. The core required TDM 
measures the applicant proposes to integrate into the project include various measures to encourage the use of 
sustainable forms of transportation. These measures include:

On-site TDM Coordinator and actively participate in Commute.org or Transportation Management Association;

Informational packets for new hires;

Secure bicycle parking and support facilities, such as showers and lockers;

Transit or Ridesharing Passes and Subsidies and Pre-Tax Transportation Benefits; and

Design Streets to Encourage Bike/Ped Access.
In addition to the project’s core TDM measures, the applicant commits to flex time, a compressed work week, and 
telecommute choices that along with the core measures, could result in a trip reduction total of 29%.
FISCAL IMPACT:
As a new non-residential project, the applicant would be subject to payment of the following impact fees and in-lieu fees, 
which are assessed and collected prior to the issuance of building permits or prior to occupancy: 

Commercial Linkage Fee, assessed on new commercial and office floor area in excess of 5,000 square-feet to offset 
the impact of development projects on the need for affordable housing.

--- page 26 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

Child Care Development Fee, assessed on commercial and office floor area, to offset the impact on the need for 
future childcare space needs by new development.

Sanitary Sewer Connection Charge, for net increase of wastewater generation based on new dwelling units and 
increase in plumbing fixtures for commercial uses.

Transportation Improvement Fee, to offset the cost of transportation improvements to serve new development 
per 1,000 square-feet of retail and office floor area, respectively. 

Wastewater Treatment Plant Phase II Impact Fee, for net increase of wastewater generation based on net increase 
of average daily flow for all uses.

School Impact Fees, to offset the increased demands on school facilities caused by new development based on 
new residential and commercial floor area.
PUBLIC NOTICE AND COMMENTS:
In accordance with Government Code Section 65090, notice of this Public Hearing was published in the San Mateo Daily 
Journal newspaper more than ten days in advance of this Planning Commission meeting. In accordance with Government 
Code Section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this Public Hearing was noticed to the following 
parties more than ten days in advance of this Planning Commission meeting:

Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site.

The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects; 

The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and,

The interested parties list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list.
There was a total of five public correspondences (including two correspondences directly commenting on the IS/MND) 
submitted to staff during the formal planning application review and included in Attachment 9 with staff responses where 
appropriate. Public comments generally pertained to the type and design of the building, the lack of parking, 
transportation facility improvements, and potential environmental impacts. Public comments after publication of this 
report will be forwarded to the Planning Commission for review and consideration at the public hearing and posted to this 
item on the City’s Agendas & Minutes Public Meeting Portal as “Post Packet Public Comments.”
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with CEQA, an Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration (IS/MND) has been prepared to assess the 
project’s environmental impact. The IS/MND concludes that this project would not have significant effects to the 
environment with implementation of appropriate Mitigation Measures. The required proposed Mitigation Measures 
address potential significant impacts including:

Monitoring construction activities to reduce potential impacts to nesting raptors and migratory birds;

Surveying and monitoring construction activities to reduce potential impacts to buried archeological resources;

Addressing the potential release of asbestos-containing materials (ACMs), lead-based paint (LBPs), and 
polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) which could pose a risk to construction workers and nearby sensitive receptors;

Addressing the potential exposure of construction workers, adjacent uses, and the environment to groundwater 
and soil contamination from petroleum hydrocarbons and chlorinated solvents;

Reducing noise impacts due to the construction activities; and

Reducing, surveying, and monitoring potential vibration impacts of the construction activities on nearby buildings.
The project’s Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program (MMRP) is included as Exhibit B in Attachment 1, to ensure 
compliance with the Mitigation Measures analyzed and required by the IS/MND. The Mitigation Measures are also 
included as conditions of approval. 
In compliance with AB 52, which requires the City provide written notification to Native American tribes that are

--- page 27 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
traditionally and culturally affiliated with the geographic area, staff sent letters via certified mail and/or emails to these 
Native American individuals and organizations between November 1, 2023 to November 6, 2023. The City did not receive a 
response for consultation on the impact analysis and mitigation measures in compliance with AB 52. Mitigation Measures 
nonetheless have been incorporated into the IS/MND and conditions of approval that require a Registered Professional 
Archaeologist (RPA) during the removal of any subsurface foundations or infrastructure or any other subsurface 
components during demolition within the project site.  Also, the RPA is required to complete a systematic subsurface 
presence/absence testing program within the project site with the objective of determining the presence/absence of 
significant archaeological materials and their horizontal and vertical extent, documenting their findings, and will provide 
recommendations to reduce impacts in accordance with California Public Resources Code Section 15064.6 (e.g., avoidance, 
preservation in-place, recordation, additional archeological testing and data recovery).
Distribution of the IS/MND consisted of a paper copy available at the City’s Permit Center and at the Main Library, and 
online posting at the City’s website at www.cityofsanmateo.org/4690 (Attachment 10). A Notice of Intent (NOI) was sent 
to all property owners and tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site, publicly noticed in the San Mateo Daily Journal 
newspaper, posted in the San Mateo County Clerk-Recorder’s Office, and submitted to the State Clearinghouse, Office of 
Planning and Research. The 20-day public review period of the IS/MND began on June 24, 2024, and concluded on July 15, 
2024. Staff received two public correspondences pertaining to the IS/MND. A memo responding to the IS/MND comments 
is being prepared and will be included as an addendum to the agenda report. No comment required further analysis or 
resulted in the identification of new or worse impacts. 
ATTACHMENTS:
Att 1 – Draft Resolution with Findings 
Att 2 – Location Map
Att 3 – Project Plans
Att 4 – Project Data Table
Att 5 – Planning Commission Meeting Minutes – May 10, 2022
Att 6 – Cannon Design Group Design Review Comments – August 1, 2022
Att 7 – Transportation Impact Analysis
Att 8 – Transportation Demand Management Plan
Att 9 – Public Comments with City responses
Att 10 – Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration - See “CEQA Documents” on the following webpage: 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4690 
STAFF CONTACT
Steve Golden, Principal Planner
SGolden@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7215

--- page 28 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. _______(2024)
APPROVING SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW APPLICATION FOR CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW 
OFFICE/RETAIL COMMERCIAL BUILDING CONSISTING OF 41,190 SQUARE-FEET OF RETAIL, COMMERCIAL, AND 
OFFICE USES LOCATED AT 31-57 SOUTH B STREET; A VESTING TENTATIVE PARCEL MAP; AND ADOPTING THE 
INITIAL STUDY/MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION 
(PA-2022-089, 31-57 SOUTH B STREET, OFFICE/RETAIL COMMERCIAL PROJECT)
WHEREAS, DTSM Donut Delite Ventures, LLC, (herein referred to as the “Applicant”) submitted a planning 
application PA-2022-089 with the Planning Division for a Site Plan and Architectural Review for construction of a 
new mixed-use building consisting of 41,190 square-feet of retail/commercial and office uses located at 31-57 
South B Street and a Vesting Tentative Map to merge four parcels into one (collectively referred to as “Project”) 
in the City of San Mateo (“City”); and
WHEREAS, the proposed Project is located within the Downtown Area Plan study area; and 
WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Charter and Municipal Code Section 27.06.040 authorizes the Planning 
Commission to take final action on Site Plan and Architectural Review for projects of over 10,000 square feet of 
non-residential development; and
WHEREAS, approval of the applicant’s proposal is considered a “Project” for purposes of the California 
Environmental Quality Act, Pub. Resources Code §21000, et seq. (“CEQA”); and
WHEREAS, the City circulated an Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration to assess environmental 
impacts in accordance with CEQA Guideline 15070 from June 24, 2024 to July 15, 2024; and
WHEREAS, the City finds the Project consistent with the applicable policies of the 2030 General Plan and 
other applicable policies; and 
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing for the Project on July 23, 2024, duly noticed, 
at which all public comments were considered.
 NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
CALIFORNIA AS FOLLOWS:
1.
The Planning Commission finds on the basis of the whole record before it that there is no substantial 
evidence that the project will have a significant effect on the environment and the Initial 
Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration reflects the lead agency’s independent judgment and analysis. 
2.
The custodian of the documents or other material which constitute the record of the proceeding upon 
which this decision is based is the Community Development Department, located at City Hall, 330 
West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, California.

--- page 29 ---
3.
The Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration for the 31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project and 
the Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program (MMRP) included as Exhibit B are adopted. 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
AS FOLLOWS:
1.
The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Land Use, Circulation, Urban Design, Housing, 
Conservation and Open Space, and Noise Elements of the City’s General Plan. 
a.
The Project conforms to Policy LU 1.5 and LU 1.10 of the Land Use Element, LU 1.10: 
Commercial Development which encourages industrial, service, retail, and office 
development which is compatible with the desired character of the area and with adjacent 
residential areas in terms of intensity of use, height, bulk and design as delineated on the Land 
Use Plan, Building Height Plan and Building Intensity Plan. The Project combines both 
retail/commercial and office uses which complement the existing commercial uses in the 
vicinity and in the adjacent downtown core. In conformance with Policies LU 2.4 and LU 3.1, 
the Project proposes these uses to further the downtown area as the social, cultural, and 
economic center of the City.
b.
In conformance with Policies C 2.5, C 2.10, and C 2.12 of the Circulation Element, a 
Transportation Impact Analysis and Transportation Demand Management Plan have been 
prepared for the Project. The Transportation Impact Analysis concludes that the Project will 
not result in a significant impact caused by increased Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT). The 
Applicant has agreed to implement a Transportation Demand Management Plan that includes 
specific trip-reduction measures for the life of the Project. The Project will also install new 
pedestrian enhancements such as crosswalk visibility improvements, ramps, and streetlights 
in conformance with Policies C 4.4, C 4.5, and C 4.7. Lastly, the project is subject to Assembly 
Bill 2097, which prohibits the City from imposing minimum parking requirements, including 
the City’s parking in-lieu fee, for projects within one-half mile of a major public transit stop.
c.
The building materials conform to Policy UD 2.3 in that the materials complement the style of 
Project and incorporate common materials of the area, including brick veneer, metal cladding, 
and stucco. 
d.
Policy C/OS 6.6 of the Conservation and Open Space Element requires that new developments 
provide street trees, which this Project conforms to in that three trees will be preserved and 
four new street trees are proposed. The Project will conform to Policy C/OS 7.1 with the 
incorporation of mitigation measures to protect and preserve to the extent feasible 
archaeological resources that might be present in the subsurface areas of the site. The Project 
also conforms to Policy C/OS 8.1 in that construction of the Project shall adhere to mitigation 
measures that prevent harm to the existing historic building immediately west of the site.
e.
The Project conforms to Policies N 1.1 and N 1.2 of the Noise Element in that an acoustical 
analysis will be required for the Project at the building permit stage of the process ensuring 
that operational noise levels will not exceed noise limits. In addition, the Project shall conform 
to Policy N 2.1 in that noise measures and monitoring during construction have been included 
as conditions of approval.
2.
The Project conforms to applicable policies of the City’s Downtown Area Plan.

--- page 30 ---
a.
In conformance with Policies I.1, II.2, and II.8, the Project proposes a high intensity 
commercial project within the Downtown Retail Core that provides for retail opportunities 
along the Required Retail Frontage with office uses on upper floors. 
b.
The Project conforms to Policies III.1, III.2, and III.8 because the Project will widen the sidewalk 
and add pedestrian amenities such as benches, improve pedestrian safety with the addition 
of curb extensions and high visibility crosswalk enhancements, and plant new street trees to 
further the pedestrian connectivity to the downtown core at the pedestrian level along both 
frontages
c.
In conformance with Policy IV.3 the Project proposes high quality, contemporary building 
design with traditional materials and appropriate building scale and massing that further 
promotes 1st Avenue as a main connection to the downtown core. 
d.
The Project conforms to the maximum bulk and building height provisions of the Zoning Code 
and integrates building step backs and open terraces at the third and fourth levels substantial 
conformance with Policy III.3.
e.
In conformance with Policy V.8 and VIII.2, the Project is within one-half mile from the 
Downtown Transit Center and is not required to provide parking and will participate in 
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) measures.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
DOES HEREBY APPROVE 31-57 SOUTH B STREET OFFICE/RETAIL COMMERCIAL PROJECT, PA-2022-089 AT 31-57 
SOUTH B STREET; AND A VESTING TENTATIVE PARCEL MAP BASED UPON THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS FOR 
APPROVAL AND THE CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL INCLUDED IN EXHIBIT A TO THIS RESOLUTION:
1.
The Site Plan and Architectural Review (Municipal Code Section 27.08.030) application for 
construction of a mixed-use building and associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on 
the following findings:
a.
The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character of the 
neighborhood as conditioned in that:
i.
The Project employs a high-quality mixture of a contemporary building design with 
traditional materials that enhance the existing architectural character of the surrounding 
area including brick veneer;
ii.
The Project is compatible with the scale of the buildings to the west and the anticipation 
of further intensification of new buildings located in the downtown area; 
iii.
The pedestrian improvements create a walkable and inviting pedestrian realm that 
substantially conform with the City’s guidelines relating to sidewalks; and,
iv.
The Project incorporates new landscaping throughout the project’s open space areas to 
further enhance the pedestrian realm.
b.
The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City in 
that:
i.
The Project provides retail/commercial and office uses that together complement existing 
commercial uses in the vicinity and in the downtown core;

--- page 31 ---
i.
The Project is in conformance with the 2030 General Plan policies and consistent with 
Zoning Code development standards; and,
ii.
The Project is in substantial conformance with the Downtown Area Plan, Bicycle Master 
Plan, and Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan.
c.
The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, and 
otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare in that:
i.
The Project consists of a new building with retail/commercial and office uses in an area 
well-served by public transit; and
ii.
The Project optimizes the project vicinity’s development potential for commercial uses 
furthering the downtown as the economic center of the City.
d.
The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission and City 
Council, conforms with the 2030 General Plan, and will correct any violations of the zoning 
ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site.
e.
The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime prevention, 
and security in that the buildings, paths of travel, and parking facilities will be required to conform 
to the City’s current Security Ordinance through conditions of approval.
2.
The Tentative Parcel Map (Municipal Code Section 26.48.060) application and associated Conditions 
of Approval are approved based on the following findings:
a.
The proposed map is consistent with applicable general and specific plans in that the map 
proposes to merge four parcels into one parcel that is consistent with the General Plan including 
the following policies: Land Use Element Policies LU1.5, LU 1.10, LU 2.4, and LU 3.1; Circulation 
Element Policies C 2.5, C 2.10, and C 2.12, C 4.4, C 4.5, and C 4.7; Urban Design Policy 2.3; 
Conservation and Open Space Policy C/OS 6.6 C/OS 7.1 and C/OS 8.1; Noise Element Policies N 
1.1, N 1.2 and N 2.1 and also consistent with Downtown Area Plan including policies I.1, II.2, II.8, 
III.1, III.2, IV.3, III.1, III.2, III.3, III.8, IV.3, V.8, and VIII.2.
b.
The design or improvement of the proposed subdivision is consistent with the General Plan 
including the following policies: Land Use Element Policies LU1.5, LU 1.10, LU 2.4, and LU 3.1; 
Circulation Element Policies C 2.5, C 2.10, and C 2.12, C 4.4, C 4.5, and C 4.7; Urban Design Policy 
2.3; Conservation and Open Space Policy C/OS 6.6 C/OS 7.1 and C/OS 8.1; Noise Element Policies 
N 1.1, N 1.2 and N 2.1 and also consistent with the Downtown Area Plan including Policies I.1, 
II.2, II.8, III.1, III.2, IV.3, III.1, III.2, III.3, III.8, IV.3, V.8, and VIII.2.
c.
The newly created lot is physically suitable for the future proposed development in that the lot 
would not constitute hillside development and all existing lots are currently developed and 
served by required utilities and services.
d.
The site is physically suitable for the proposed density of development in that it creates a site 
that will be developed with one non-residential building that conforms to the setbacks and 
height limits of the Zoning Code.
e.
The design of the newly created lot will not cause substantial environmental impact nor injure 
fish or wildlife or their habitat in that it redevelops a site already in urban use with a building for 
commercial and office uses.

--- page 32 ---
f.
The design of the newly created lot and type of improvements will not cause serious public 
health problems in that adequate sanitary sewer and storm drain facilities are provided for the 
project and the project street frontage is improved with sidewalks and will not otherwise 
constrain the delivery of public services. 
g.
The design of the newly created lot will not conflict with any public utility easements granting 
access through, or use of, the site in that the Project would remove and abandon all existing 
easements.
RESOLUTION NO. X (2024) adopted by the Planning Commission of the City of San Mateo, California, at a regular 
meeting held on July 23, 2024, by the following vote of the Planning Commission:
AYES:
NOES:
ABSENT:
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager
          Seema Patel, Chair

--- page 33 ---
EXHIBIT A
CITY OF SAN MATEO PLANNING APPLICATION
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
PA-2022-089, 31 S. B ST., SPAR + VESTING TENTATIVE PARCEL MAP
31 S B ST, SAN MATEO, CA 94401-3907
 PARCEL # 034154030
 AS APPROVED BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON JULY 23, 2024
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of 
approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance. 
Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance. Types of 
Building permits include Demolition, Shoring/Excavation, Foundation, and Superstructure.
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING 
PERMIT FOR SHORING OR FOUNDATION, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, whichever is issued first, 
or prior to the deadline specified in that condition.
Planning Division (PA)
1 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE – All building permit plans, details, 
and subsequent construction shall substantially conform with the approved planning 
application. This includes but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and 
other items submitted as part of the approved planning application. Any proposed 
modifications to the approved planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the 
proposed modifications. The Community Development Director, or his/her designee, shall 
determine whether the proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved 
planning application, or whether a planning application modification is required to be 
submitted to permit the proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 
27.08.080 Modifications. (PLANNING)
2 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – This complete list of Conditions of Approval shall be 
reproduced onto the second sheet of all building permit plan sets. (PLANNING)
3 EXCAVATED SOILS – The applicant shall submit a compliance letter from San Mateo County 
Environmental Health Services to the Planning Division subject to the satisfaction of the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee. The compliance letter shall 
indicate that site soils have been tested prior to disposal to confirm that the concentration 
of constituents present in site soils do not exceed hazardous waste criteria of local, state 
and federal regulations. If the concentration of constituents in the project site soil exceeds 
hazardous waste criteria, the letter shall also confirm that the soil will be disposed of in 
accordance with local, state, and federal regulations. (PLANNING)

--- page 34 ---
4 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall pay all 
outstanding planning application fees. (PLANNING)
5 PHASING PLAN – The applicant shall submit a complete phasing plan indicating all on-site 
and off-site infrastructure improvements and their estimated duration of construction. The 
applicant shall also indicate at what phase each off-site improvement is to be constructed. 
This plan shall be subject to the review by the Community Development Director or his/her 
designee. (PLANNING)
6 VECTOR CONTROL PLAN – The applicant shall enter into a contract with a pest control 
specialist and develop a vector control plan to be submitted for review and approval by the 
Community Development Director and the San Mateo County Mosquito and Vector 
Control District. The plan shall describe measures which shall be taken by the applicant to 
prevent rodent and pest infestation to adjacent sites, specify pest control measures, cover 
all phases of demolition, landscaping removal, and construction plus for a minimum period 
of six months after the completion of construction. The plan shall also specify that 
modifications will be developed and implemented should additional pest control measures 
be required during construction or demolition activity, subject to approval by the 
Community Development Department Director or his/her designee. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
7 APPLICABLE BUILDING STANDARDS AND LOCAL CODES – All building permit plans shall 
demonstrate compliance with the applicable California Building Standards Codes and local 
amendments as adopted by the Building Division at the time of filing the building permit 
application. (BUILDING) 
8 BAAQMD JOB NUMBER – The applicant shall submit an asbestos demolition and 
renovation notification job number (J#) from Bay Area Air Quality Management District. 
(BAAQMD). (BUILDING)
9 DEMOLITION – A building permit for demolition shall be issued in accordance with Section 
23.06.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, to the satisfaction of the Building Official or 
his/her designee. (BUILDING)
10 PRE-CONSTRUCTION CONFERENCE FOR LARGE PROJECTS- A pre-construction conference 
shall be held at a time and location agreed upon by the City and applicant for the purpose 
of reviewing Conditions of Approval and construction-site procedures.  The applicant shall 
be represented by his design and construction staffs, which include any sub-contractors.  
Departments having conditions of approval for the project will represent the City. This 
meeting shall be held prior to issuance of the Demolition Permit, Building Permit or Site 
Development Permit, and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued 
first. (BUILDING)

--- page 35 ---
11 SITE SURVEY – The applicant shall provide a full site survey stamped and signed by a Land 
Surveyor licensed by the State of California. The survey shall include, but not be limited to: 
location and dimensions of property lines, location of streets and easements, existing 
buildings, topographic contour lines, trees/landscape, and other structures. (BUILDING)
12 SOILS REPORT AND INVESTIGATION LETTER – The applicant shall submit a stamped, signed, 
and dated soils investigation report containing design recommendations and integrate 
recommendations into the plans as-appropriate, to the satisfaction of the Building Official 
or his/her designee. The applicant shall also submit a letter stamped and signed by the 
Geotechnical engineer of-record stating the plans and specifications substantially conform 
to the recommendations in the soil report, subject to the satisfaction of the Building 
Official or his/her designee. (BUILDING) 
Fire Department (PA)
13 FIRE FLOW – The applicant shall provide fire flow information to the Fire Plan Checker, 
which is subject to the review and approval of the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE)
Public Works Department (PA)
14 ADDRESS PLAN – The applicant shall submit to the Public Works Department a final 
address plan which Public Works will also coordinate with the Building Division. The plan 
shall be substantially in conformance with the address plan approved with the planning 
application. Said submittal shall be approved by the Public Works Department and the 
Building Division prior to the submittal of plans for any building permit, or site 
development permit and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued 
first. (PUBLIC WORKS/BUILDING)
15 CHARGES FOR PUBLIC WORKS SERVICES – Prior to plan checking, the applicant shall be 
required to pay associated fees per the Fee schedule in effect at the time of submittal. 
Public Works plan checking of the plans submitted with the building permit plans cannot 
proceed until the fee is paid. (PUBLIC WORKS)
16 ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE – The applicant shall obtain an 
encroachment permit, posting the required bonds and insurance, and provide a one (1) 
year warranty for all work to be done in the City's right of way or easements prior to any 
work being done. (PUBLIC WORKS)
17 GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLANS – All grading and drainage plans shall identify the vertical 
elevation datum, date of survey, and surveyor. Grading plans shall show existing topo and 
features at least 50’ beyond the project boundary. Plan shall show existing topography, 
label contour elevations, drainage patterns, flow lines, slopes, and all other property 
encumbrances. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 36 ---
18 PARCEL MAP – It shall be the applicant's responsibility to have a parcel map, prepared by a 
person authorized to practice land surveying in California, delineating all parcels created or 
deleted and all changes in lot lines in conformance with San Mateo Municipal Code 
Chapter 26.56.
 
The parcel map shall be approved by the Department of Public Works and recorded with 
the County Recorder’s Office prior to the issuance of any City superstructure building 
permits. A parcel map guarantee shall be submitted to the City, by the applicant’s title 
company, prior to release of the parcel map to the title company for recordation. 
Prior to the City’s release of the parcel map to the title company, the applicant may, at the 
discretion of the Director of Public Works or designee, be required to submit to the City an 
electronic copy of the map in PDF and the AutoCAD Version being used by the City at the 
time of recordation. It is the applicant's responsibility to check with their title company 
and the County Recorder’s Office to determine the time necessary to have the map 
recorded after City approval. (PUBLIC WORKS)
19 PERMITS REQUIRED BY OTHER AGENCIES – The applicant is hereby informed that permits 
may be required by one (1) or more of the following: Caltrain. If project is within 
jurisdiction of any of these agencies, verification of permit or waiver of permit shall be 
given to the Public Works Department prior to issuance of any required City permits. If the 
City is required to be a party to the permit application and a fee is required, the applicant 
shall reimburse the City for its cost. (PUBLIC WORKS)
20 POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCB) SCREENING ASSESSMENT FORM – As per Stormwater 
Municipal Regional Permit requirements and San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, 
Demolition Permit Applicants shall complete the PCBs Screening Assessment Form located 
here: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/160/Demolition-Requirements 
The Form shall be reviewed and approved by the Director of Public Works or his/her 
designee. (PUBLIC WORKS)
21 STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP) – The project applicant shall 
provide a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) in compliance with Bay Area 
Stormwater Management Agencies Association (BASMAA) Blueprint for a Clean Bay Best 
Management Practices to Prevent Stormwater Pollution from Construction-Related 
Activities.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
22 TRAFFIC CONTROL & SITE LOGISTICS PLANS – The applicant shall submit traffic control 
plans for any impact to the right-of-way for each phase of operation, including pedestrian 
and bicycle detour plans as applicable. The traffic control plan shall comply with the most 
recent version of the California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD) and 
the City’s Traffic Control Plan Requirements.

--- page 37 ---


--- page 38 ---
The applicant shall also submit a site logistics plan for each phase of operation. The plan, 
at a minimum, shall include estimated timeframes for implementation, duration, 
construction operations. (PUBLIC WORKS)
CDD Arborist (PA)
23 STREET TREES – The landscape plans shall specify installation of street trees in accordance 
with the City of San Mateo Street Tree Master Plan. In accordance with Municipal Code 
Section 27.71.120(a)(1), 24-inch box shall be the minimum size for street trees planted 
along public streets and shall include tree grates and root barriers as specified by the City 
Standard Drawings 3-1-847 and 3-1-933. The landscape plans shall be subject to the 
review and approval of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (CDD 
ARBORIST)
24 TREE PROTECTION VERIFICATION LETTER – To verify that all tree protection measures are 
properly implemented, the applicant shall submit a tree protection verification letter 
prepared by the project arborist to the Building Division that includes photographs 
showing the tree protection installed. The letter shall also include a schedule of future 
inspections by the Project Arborist. The verification letter is subject to the review and 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (CDD 
ARBORIST)
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE 
SUPERSTRUCTURE.
Planning Division (PA)
25 ACOUSTICAL ANALYSIS – The applicant shall provide an acoustical analysis prepared by a 
qualified acoustical consultant which shall contain recommendations to ensure the 
building’s interior noise levels comply with the levels established in the General Plan or 
Building Code, whichever is more restrictive, subject to the satisfaction of the Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING)
26 CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE – The applicant shall pay a Child Care Development Fee 
subject to the rate established in the annual Comprehensive Fee Schedule in effect at the 
time of building permit issuance. (PLANNING)
27 COMMERCIAL LINKAGE FEE – The applicant shall pay the Affordable Commercial Housing 
Linkage Fee in accordance with Municipal Code Section 23.61 and Resolution 84 (2016) 
subject to the rate established in the annual Comprehensive Fee Schedule in effect at the 
time payment is made. (PLANNING)
28 LANDSCAPING AGREEMENT – The applicant shall provide proof of an agreement with a 
licensed landscape contractor or General Contractor for the duration of the project’s Plant 
Establishment Maintenance Period, which consists of three (3) growing season months

--- page 39 ---
(March through October) for all proposed landscaped areas including the vertical 
landscaping at the corner of 1st Avenue and South B Street.  (PLANNING)
29 LOCATION AND SCREENING OF ABOVE GROUND UTILITIES AND EQUIPMENT – All 
screening for any ground-level utilities, equipment, and other project related 
operational/utility devices shall be shown on the building permit plans in substantial 
conformance with the approved planning application. All above ground utilities and 
equipment shall be screened with landscaping, fencing, and/or other solid materials to the 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING)
30 SCREENING OF ROOFTOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT (use for projects with rooftop 
mechanical equipment) – All rooftop mechanical equipment shall be shown on the 
building permit plans in substantial conformance with the approved planning application. 
All equipment shall be painted and/or screened by a solid enclosure or parapet wall with 
materials compatible with the building design subject to the satisfaction of the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING)
31 SIGNAGE – Preliminary signage shown in the approved planning application plans are for 
information only. Final signage shall be reviewed and approved in accordance with Title 25 
of the Municipal Code. (PLANNING)
32 TRASH AND RECYCLING ENCLOSURES – All above-grade trash and recycling enclosures 
shall be shown on the building permit plans in substantial conformance with the approved 
planning application and be screened to the satisfaction of the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
33 CALGREEN – The building permit plans shall incorporate the applicable CALGreen Checklist 
noting the green building measures the project will incorporate in accordance with the 
California Green Building Standards Code and City of San Mateo Reach Codes subject to 
the review and approval by the Building Official, or his/her designee. Current City of San 
Mateo CALGreen checklists are located on Building Division webpage or will be provided 
by Community Development Department staff, if requested. (BUILDING)
34 FLASHING DETAIL – Flashing and water drainage between the proposed building and the 
existing adjacent building need to be addressed with a notarized agreement between the 
property owners of the new building and existing building. It shall include a detail of 
proposed flashing, description of building shared joint maintenance and repair. In case the 
new building will direct rainwater to roof of the existing building then analysis shall be 
provided for capacity of existing roof drainage system. (BUILDING)
35 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – The applicant shall submit a completed Water 
Conservation in Landscaping Screening Form. If the screening form indicates the project is

--- page 40 ---
subject to the Water Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance pursuant to Municipal Code 
Section 23.72.030, additional documentation prescribed by the screening form shall also 
be included with the site plan. City of San Mateo Water Conservation in Landscaping 
forms are located on Building Division webpage. The applicant shall submit the required 
landscape documentation package with building permit application subject to the review 
and satisfaction of the Building Official, or his/her designee.  (BUILDING)
Fire Department (PA)
36 CODE CONFORMANCE – The applicant shall indicate on all building permit plans that all 
construction shall meet current code standards at the time of building permit submittal. 
The building permit plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or 
his/her designee. (FIRE)
37 FIRE CONTROL ROOM – The plans shall show a fire control room with direct access from 
the exterior of the building subject to the requirements listed in the Fire Department’s 
local Ordinance and subject to the review and approval of the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee. (FIRE) 
38 FIRE DEPARTMENT SUBMITTALS – The applicant shall submit all plans involving fire 
systems (including but not limited to fire sprinklers, fire hydrants, and fire alarms) in 
conjunction with the superstructure building permit plans to the Fire Department. The 
plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE) 
39 REMOTE POWER DISCONNECT – The plans shall show a key switch/shunt trip to 
disconnect the building electrical power and/or solar photovoltaic system by Fire 
Department personnel. The key switch/shunt trip location(s) shall be subject to the review 
and approval of the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE)
Police Department (PA)
40 BUILDING SECURITY CODE COMPLIANCE – The building permit plans shall comply with the 
City’s Building Security Code (San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.54). (POLICE) 
41 PHOTOMETRIC PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENT – The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall include a photometric plan showing the installation of lighting fixtures 
and lighting levels to be reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police or his/her designee. 
The photometric plan shall include point-by-point lighting levels in foot-candles for the 
entire plot and ten feet beyond the project property lines.  The point-by-point 
photometric plan shall provide lighting levels on a grid not to exceed five feet by five feet 
across the entire site.  Each point shall report the illuminance to the nearest 0.1 foot-
candles.  Photometric calculations including maximum foot-candles, average foot-candles, 
minimum foot-candles, average to minimum uniformity, and maximum to minimum 
uniformity shall be included on the plan submitted.  Select specifications for fixtures

--- page 41 ---
selected shall be provided on the photometric plan sufficient to ensure compliance with 
the SITE LIGHTING STANDARDS.  (POLICE)
42 SECURED BUILDING ACCESS BY EMERGENCY PERSONNEL – The building permit plans for 
the superstructure shall show the detailed specifications for and the installation of 
telephone entry pads (TEPs) and/or wireless “click to enter” systems at the main exterior 
building entrance(s) and parking garage entrance(s) for secured buildings.  These access 
systems must allow emergency personnel to access all levels of the interior of the 
building. The access systems must also be installed at exterior gate locations that lead to 
secured areas of the site, such as interior courtyards.  Access system placement location is 
subject to the review and approval of the Chief of Police or his/her designee, prior to the 
approval of the first building permit for the project. Police access codes shall be as 
provided by the Chief of Police or his/her designee at the time of installation. (POLICE)
43 SITE FURNITURE – Building permit plans for the superstructure shall show permanent site 
furniture accessible to the public designed and installed to prevent an adult from laying 
down by installing arm rests not more than 4' apart, or by designing elevation changes 4" 
or more on horizontal surfaces every 4'.  Temporary site furniture shall be secured at the 
close of each business day. (POLICE)
44 STAIRWELL & EXTERIOR DOORS – The building permit plans for the super structure shall 
show the maximum allowable viewing panel in egress doors from stairwells and exterior 
doors leading to exterior areas. (POLICE)
45 VIDEO SURVEILLANCE SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENT – The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall include a plan showing the installation of cameras and approximate 
viewing fields of surveillance cameras to be reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police 
or his/her designee.  The plan shall include cameras placed to view areas as required by 
SMMC 23.54.035, and include select specifications for cameras and storage equipment.  
(POLICE).
Public Works Department (PA)
46 DRAINAGE –The building permit plans show drainage designed into landscaping with the 
purpose of reducing volume or improving quality of runoff from the site shall be 
implemented, to the extent feasible, subject to the approval of the Director of Public 
Works or designee. Where necessary, sidewalk drains per City Standard Drawing 3 1 120 
shall be provided to direct the water under the sidewalk and through the curb. No 
increase to the peak discharge shall be permitted downstream. In addition, discharge shall 
conform to any non-point source permit issued by the Regional Water Quality Control 
Board. Drainage improvements made on-site shall conform to standard engineering 
practices and shall not allow any site drainage to impact adjacent properties. All drainage 
capacity calculations shall be performed by a licensed Civil Engineer, whose signed 
engineer’s stamp shall appear on the calculations sheets and shall be submitted to the City 
for review and approval with the project civil plans submitted as part of the building

--- page 42 ---
permit for the superstructure. The applicant shall install adequate storm drain facilities 
along the project frontages to collect, treat and convey site and street flow to the City 
storm drain system. Projects that include permanent structural controls for stormwater 
treatment, shall comply with requirements of Section C.3 of the Municipal Regional 
Stormwater Permit for San Mateo County (MRP). The O&M (operation and maintenance) 
procedures for such control features shall be submitted for review and approval prior to 
occupancy and specify the owner’s responsibility to ensure their ongoing effective 
operation and maintenance. Such O&M responsibility requirements shall be recorded with 
the County of San Mateo Recorder’s Office. The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show drainage. (PUBLIC WORKS)
47 FENCES AND OTHER PERMANENT STRUCTURES – The applicant shall locate all project 
fencing and foundations of a permanent nature within the project’s property and out of 
the City right-of-way. (PUBLIC WORKS)
48 GARBAGE/RECYCLE/COMPOSTING STORAGE AND SERVICE – The applicant shall provide an 
adequate area for the purposes of storing garbage, recycling, composting collection 
containers for scheduled servicing by the franchise solid waste collection service. The 
containers shall be placed at the service location allowing enough room for the truck to 
safely approach the containers. The collection containers shall be brought to the service 
area and returned to the storage enclosure by the property owner. The containers are not 
to be in public view or in the public right-of-way prior to, or beyond the scheduled service 
times. A letter shall be provided from the City’s franchise solid waste collection service 
provider stating that service is available to the project as designed. The building permit 
plans for the superstructure shall show garbage and recycling areas. (PUBLIC WORKS)
49 INTERIOR FLOOR DRAINS – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show all 
interior floor drains and shall be plumbed to connect to the sanitary sewer system and 
shall not be connected to stormwater collection system per the San Mateo Countywide 
Water Pollution Prevention Program’s C.3 requirements. (PUBLIC WORKS)
50 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS – An Encroachment Permit shall be required for all public 
improvements in the public right-of-way or easements. All public improvements shall be 
completed prior to the Certificate of Occupancy.
The developer shall repair or replace all existing improvements not designated for removal 
and all new improvements that are damaged or removed because of developer's 
operations. Developer shall request a walk-through with the Public Works Construction 
Inspector before the start of construction to verify existing conditions.
The applicant shall have improvement plans prepared for all work in the public right of 
way or easements by a licensed civil engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp shall appear 
on the plans. The improvement plans shall be included in the superstructure building 
permit submittal and substantially conform to the approved planning application. Any 
changes to the improvements shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or

--- page 43 ---
designee at their sole discretion. All design assumptions and criteria shall be submitted. 
Project specifications shall be included for review.
All work shown on the improvement plans shall be inspected and approved by Public 
Works.
Quantities for items below are provided only to determine minimum bonding 
requirements for the encroachment permit. The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the following public improvements in the public right of way:
(A) STREET IMPROVEMENT – The applicant shall improve the street frontages in 
accordance with the approved planning application. The applicant shall install new street 
section, curb, gutter, bulb-outs, landscaping, and sidewalk and relocate affected utilities as 
directed by the Director of Public Works or designee or designee. All work shall be shown 
on the required improvement plans. If any significant changes to the improvement plans 
are proposed during the building permit phase, a new public improvement plan shall be 
prepared by the applicant for review and approval by the Director of Public Works or 
designee. (PUBLIC WORKS)
(B) PAVEMENT – Project is required to grind and overlay curb to curb width of all street 
frontages including the B and 1st street intersection and the Alley way on the back, as 
shown on the approved planning application. (PUBLIC WORKS)
(C) STREET MARKINGS – The applicant shall install necessary street markings of a material 
and design approved by the Director of Public Works or designee and replace any that are 
damaged during construction. These include but are not limited to all pavement markings, 
painted curbs and handicap markings. All permanent pavement markings shall be 
thermoplastic. Color and location of painted curbs shall be shown on the plans and subject 
to approval by the Director of Public Works or designee. Any existing painted curb or 
pavement markings no longer required shall be removed by grinding if thermoplastic, sand 
blasting if in paint. Once installed, the applicant shall coordinate with City crews to mark 
any red curb within the proposed City right-of-way with a City seal. (PUBLIC WORKS)
(D) STRIPING - For consistency with the recommendations included in the City of San 
Mateo Pedestrian Guidelines and the San Mateo TOD Pedestrian Access Plan, the project 
shall:
i. Upgrade existing crosswalks to high-visibility crosswalks (per Caltrans Pavement 
Markings Crosswalk Standards) on all legs at the 1st Avenue and South /B Street 
intersection and along the north leg at 1st Avenue and /Transit Center Way intersection to 
provide adequate pedestrian access to the other areas of downtown and the San Mateo 
Caltrain Station.
(E) SIDEWALK– The applicant shall replace to existing City standards all sidewalk 
surrounding the project site, in substantial conformance with the planning application. 
Sidewalk replacement shall be constructed per current City Standard and comply with 
Pedestrian Master Plan.  (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 44 ---


--- page 45 ---
(F) CURB RAMP(S) – The applicant shall construct curb ramp(s) in accordance with current 
City Standard at 1st and B Street, and 1st and Transit Center Way intersections. The actual 
ramp "Case" shall be identified on the plans and shall be approved by the Director of 
Public Works or designee or designee. (PUBLIC WORKS)
(G) CURB AND GUTTER – The applicant shall replace to existing City standards all curb and 
gutter surrounding the project site, in substantial conformance with the planning 
application. New curb and gutter shall be constructed per current City Standard. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
(H) DRIVEWAY APPROACH(ES) (Ensure ADA is met)– The applicant shall remove and 
replace existing driveway approach on the Alley way on the back of the property at 1st 
Avenue, in substantial conformance with the planning application.  The new commercial 
driveway approach shall be installed per current City Standard. (PUBLC WORKS)
(I) SEWER LATERAL – The applicant shall install as a minimum a six (6) inch City Standard 
sewer lateral connection from the property line to the sewer main located in the street 
right of way. The installation shall be done in accordance with current City Standard. 
(PUBLIC WORKS)
(J) GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 
7.39, the applicant shall install and maintain green infrastructure (GI) improvements 
including storm drain facilities and treatment area located along project frontages on B 
Street and 1st Avenue. The improvements shall be in accordance with the guidance and 
specifications provided by San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program or 
City of San Mateo GI Plan design and shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or 
designee. Drainage capacity calculations shall be performed by a licensed Civil Engineer, 
whose signed Engineer’s stamp shall appear on the calculations sheets and shall be 
submitted to the City for review and approval with the project superstructure plans. GI 
improvements shall be maintained by the adjacent property owner and included in the 
project stormwater treatment O&M (operation and maintenance) agreement that is 
recorded with the County of San Mateo Recorder’s Office. (PUBLIC WORKS)
Applicant shall provide green infrastructure to the maximum extent as determined by the 
Public Works Director or designee at their sole direction, to treat storm water runoff from 
frontage and public ROW. Sizing and design shall conform to San Mateo Countywide 
Water Pollution Prevention Program City of San Mateo GI Plan design templates and 
technical guidance and be approved by the Director. (PUBLIC WORKS)
(K) TRAFFIC SIGNAL INFRASTRUCTURE – The applicant shall be responsible for relocating 
and updating the traffic signal at B Street and 1st Avenue intersection to the latest 
standards and requirements, in substantial conformance with the planning application. 
The applicant shall submit all necessary traffic signal design plans, including pole and 
conductor schedules where necessary, to the Director of Public Works or designee or 
designee for review and approval as part of the Building Permit for the Superstructure.

--- page 46 ---
The plans shall show all traffic signal equipment upgrades to comply with latest California 
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD), Caltrans, and City standards 
requirements. Improvements shall include, but are not limited to, accessible pedestrian 
signals (APS) and pushbuttons (PPB), emergency vehicle preemption signal equipment, 
video detection equipment, 12” LED signal diodes, intersection PTZ camera, signal head 
backplates, internally illuminated street name signs, traffic signal interconnect or fiber 
optic communications.
During construction, the applicant shall provide equipment submittals, signal timing 
and/or configuration changes, and testing documentation to the Director of Public Works 
or designee or designee for review and approval prior to installation. The developer shall 
be responsible for development and implementation of any new required signal timing. 
Where traffic signals within the City of San Mateo right-of-way are owned by other 
agencies, the developer shall be responsible for obtaining all necessary approvals and 
permits and pay all fees associated with bringing the traffic signal up to latest standards 
and requirements. (PUBLIC WORKS)
(N) STREETLIGHT(S) AND INFRASTRUCTURE – The applicant shall submit both a lighting 
plan and streetlight improvement plan.
Lighting Plan:
The Lighting Plan shall be full-sized plan sheet(s) incorporated into the civil plan set 
submitted to the City as part of the Building Permit review process.  The Lighting Plan 
shall:
1. Include a design for lighting all public streets, intersections, sidewalks, pedestrian paths, 
and bicycle facilities located in the public roadway right-of-way adjacent to the project site 
to meet the lighting levels recommended in the Illuminating Engineering Society’s (IES) 
Recommended Practice For Design And Maintenance Of Roadway And Parking Facility 
Lighting (ANSI/IES RP-8-18).
2. Be based on photometric analysis consistent with the Illuminance Method described in 
ANSI/IES RP-8-18, prepared using lighting design software.
3. Include the following information about each luminaire included in the analysis:
a. Location
b. Type (Indicated by the City’s specification name)
c. Mounting height
d. Arm length
e. Total luminaire Light Loss Factor (LLF)
4. Include separate analysis zones for each street, each sidewalk by frontage, and each 
intersection, configured according to the City’s standard practice in use at the time the 
analysis is begun.
5. Show each photometric analysis zone with point illuminance values.
6. Include a table displaying the following metric values for the analysis zones:
a. Average Maintained Illuminance (fc)
b. Average Uniformity Ratio
c. Maximum Uniformity Ratio

--- page 47 ---
d. Maximum Point Illuminance Value (fc)

--- page 48 ---
e. Minimum Point Illuminance Value (fc)
7. Achieve the required lighting levels using the least number of luminaires possible, using 
a consistent pattern of luminaire placement, and shall include luminaires on both sides of 
the street if such a pattern reduces the number of luminaires required, unless otherwise 
approved by the City.
8. Include pedestrian scale lighting if pedestrian scale lighting is already in use on the block 
of the project frontage, or if the City’s Pedestrian Master Plan recommends pedestrian 
scale lighting on the project frontage.
9. Maintain the following minimum spacing between luminaires:
a. 50 feet between pedestrian scale luminaires on the same side of the street.  
b. 100 feet between all other types of luminaires on the same side of the street.
c. 50 feet between luminaires of mixed types.
d. Reduced spacing may be approved by the City if the photometric analysis indicates it is 
necessary to meet the required lighting levels.
10. Include only City owned streetlights within the public right-of-way, or located in an 
easement on private property, unless otherwise approved by the City.
11. Utilize the City’s list of standard luminaires at the time of design for selection of any 
new or replacement luminaires proposed by the project.
Preparation of the Lighting Plan shall be a continuation of the previously submitted, but 
currently incomplete and unapproved, Lighting Plan reviewed by the City during the 
Planning Application process.  All direction and comment on the previous submittals 
remain in effect and shall be addressed during the Building Permit review process.
The project is required to meet the following lighting levels:
1st Ave – Road: 1.1 fc Average, 3.0 Average Uniformity Ratio, 5.0 Max Uniformity Ratio
 B St – Road: 1.1 fc Average, 3.0 Average Uniformity Ratio, 5.0 Max Uniformity Ratio
 1st Ave – Sidewalk: 0.9 fc Average, 4.0 Average Uniformity Ratio
 B St – Sidewalk: 0.9 fc Average, 4.0 Average Uniformity Ratio
 1st Ave & B St Intersection: 2.2 fc Average, 4.0 Average Uniformity Ratio
Streetlight Improvement Plan:
The Streetlight Improvement Plan shall be full-sized plan sheet(s) incorporated into the 
civil plan set submitted to the City as part of the Building Permit review process.  The 
Streetlight Improvement Plan shall:
1. Implement the project’s Lighting Plan from their project frontage to the roadway 
centerline.
2. Implement improvements beyond the project frontage or the roadway centerline if 
such improvements are necessary to provide a functioning lighting system.
3. Show all work necessary to construct the streetlight improvements for which the 
project is responsible to implement.
4. Include all electrical calculations (i.e. voltage drop) required for design of a functional 
streetlight system that complies with all applicable codes and standards.
5. Shows location of connection to existing streetlight circuit(s).
6. Shows location of proposed new electrical service connections.
7. Include a map showing the full extent of all streetlight circuits that will include project

--- page 49 ---
lighting improvements.  This map shall include information necessary for verifying voltage 
drop calculations and may also be used for submittal to the serving utility as part of an 
electrical service modification application.  At a minimum the map shall include:
a. Location and wattage of all streetlight luminaires on the circuit.
b. Streetlight pole numbers.
c. Length of conduit runs used for voltage drop calculations.  Lengths may be labeled 
directly on the plan view or presented in a conduit run schedule.
It shall be the applicant’s responsibility to verify the location of all existing streetlight 
equipment and infrastructure, including, but not limited to, underground conduits, pull 
boxes, poles, and electrical service connections, as needed for the preparation of the 
Lighting Plan and the Streetlight Improvement Plan.  The City is typically not able to 
provide accurate as-built plans of streetlight circuits.
The applicant shall be responsible for coordinating all lighting improvements with the 
serving utility, including preparing all required documents and attachments, attending all 
field meetings requested by the serving utility, submitting applications for new or 
modified electrical service.
The applicant shall be responsible for all costs charged by the serving utility associated 
with the project’s streetlight improvements, including but not limited to application fees, 
permit fees, engineering charges, and construction charges.
The applicant shall consult with the City for additional guidance on current City standards 
and practices prior to starting work on the Lighting Plan or the Streetlight Improvement 
Plan.
If, during preparation of the Streetlight Improvement Plan, it is determined that streetlight 
improvements consistent with the Lighting Plan cannot be installed, the applicant may, at 
the discretion of the Director of Public Works, be required to prepare a new Lighting Plan 
to ensure required lighting levels are met. (PUBLIC WORKS)
51 SAMTRANS - For consistency with the SamTrans Bus stop Improvement Plan, the project 
shall not preclude future implementation of the following transit features for the bus stop 
adjacent to the project site on 1st Avenue:
i. Benches/seating
ii. Shade structure with lighting
iii. Real-time arrival information
iv. Trash receptacles. 
Any bus stop improvements or changes will require SamTrans review and approval. 
(PUBLIC WORKS)
52 SEPARATE WATER METERS – When a development includes multiple uses, there shall be a 
separate water meter for each development use. The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the separate water meters. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 50 ---
53 STORM AND SANITARY SEWER – The applicant shall perform an initial inspection (via 
remote TV camera) of the mainline storm and sanitary sewer from the nearest upstream 
structure to the nearest downstream structure of the project’s point of connections. 
During the initial inspection, any damage must be reported to the Department of Public 
Works. The applicant shall perform the same inspection once construction is completed. 
Damage in result of this project’s construction shall be repaired by the applicant at their 
expense. (PUBLIC WORKS)
54 STORM DRAIN INLETS AND WATERWAYS – The building permit plans shall show the 
marking of the words “No Dumping! Flows to Bay,” or equivalent, on all storm inlets 
surrounding and within the project site using methods approved by the City standards, 
consistent with the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program’s C.3 
requirements (PUBLIC WORKS)
55 TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE –The applicant shall pay a fee proportional to the 
project's share of transportation improvements needed to serve cumulative development 
within the City of San Mateo, as established by San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.13. 
The fee shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of 
the first superstructure building permit. The fee shall be based on the most current 
adopted fee schedule at the time of payment. (PUBLIC WORKS)
56 TRASH CAPTURE DEVICES – The building permits shall show installation of trash capture 
devices in storm drain systems that lead directly to the off-site storm drain system or 
outfall. Devices shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee or designee. 
Trash capture devices are required on site consistent with the State Water Resources 
Control Board definition of Full Capture System. All on-site trash capture devices shall be 
cleaned routinely and maintained by the Owner per the Stormwater Treatment Facilities 
Maintenance Agreement. The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show trash 
capture devices. (PUBLIC WORKS)
57 TRIANGULAR AREA OF VISIBILITY –The building permit plans for the superstructure shall 
show that the installation of landscaping and permanent structures located within the 10' 
triangular area of visibility at the driveway, and 25’ triangular area of visibility at any 
project corner meets the requirements of a minimum vertical clearance of 7', and/or are 
less than 3' in height. This includes all PG&E above ground structures and other utility 
facilities. (PUBLIC WORKS)
58 UTILITIES – Utility plans shall be submitted as part of the building permit plans for the 
superstructure and shall show appropriate line types and labels to identify different type 
of utilities and pipe sizes. Clearly identify both public and private utilities.
The Developer shall provide joint trench composite plans for the underground electrical, 
gas, telephone, cable television, and communication conduits and cables including the

--- page 51 ---
size, location and details of all trenches, locations of building utility service stubs and 
meters and placements or arrangements of junction structures.
Sanitary sewer laterals and/or water meters located in driveways shall have traffic rated 
boxes and lids.
Developer is required to confirm the location of existing utility lines along the project 
frontage by potholing. Prior to any potholing, developer shall obtain an encroachment 
permit and submit a pothole plan for City review and approval. Developer shall provide 
the pothole results to the Director of Public Works or designee or designee prior to final 
design. Any utility conflicts shall be the responsibility of the developer to rectify. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
59 WASTEWATER CAPACITY CHARGE – A wastewater capacity charge, as established by San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.38.065, is imposed on all new development to recover a 
proportionate share of costs for existing and future wastewater system facilities and 
assets from new or expanded connections to City wastewater systems. The applicable 
wastewater capacity charge is determined by use, wastewater flow, and wastewater 
strength loadings and the amount shall be established by City Council resolution. The fee 
shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first 
superstructure building permit. The fee shall be based on the most current adopted fee 
schedule at the time of payment. (PUBLIC WORKS)
60 WILL SERVE LETTER FOR WATER – A Will Serve Letter from the water company shall be 
supplied to the Director of Public Works or designee. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, ISSUANCE 
OF A TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, or ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, 
whichever occurs first.
Planning Division (PA)
61 ACOUSTICAL COMPLIANCE LETTER – The applicant shall submit an acoustical compliance 
letter to the Project Planner written and signed by the project acoustical consultant 
indicating all recommendations incorporated into the project to reach compliance with 
the noise limits listed in Tables N-1 and N-2 of the Noise Element of the General Plan. This 
letter shall be submitted prior to scheduling the Planning Final Inspection. (PLANNING)
62 LANDSCAPE VERIFICATION LETTER – The applicant shall submit a landscape verification 
letter to the Project Planner written, signed, and stamped by the project landscape 
architect indicating that all on-site and off-site landscape improvements (including on-site 
trees, street trees, shrubs, and irrigation systems) have been installed in compliance with 
the approved landscape plans. This letter shall be submitted prior to scheduling the 
Planning Final Inspection. (PLANNING)

--- page 52 ---
63 LANDSCAPING AGREEMENT – The applicant shall provide proof of an agreement with a 
licensed landscape contractor or General Contractor for the duration of the project’s Plant 
Establishment Maintenance Period, which consists of three (3) growing season months 
(March through October) for all proposed landscaped areas including the vertical 
landscaping at the corner of 1st Avenue and South B Street.  (PLANNING)
64 PLANNING FINAL INSPECTION – Upon completion of all construction and landscaping, the 
applicant shall request the Project Planner conduct a Planning Final inspection for  
verification of compliance with all outstanding conditions of approval. The applicant shall 
contact the Project Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance 
of the requested inspection. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
65 ART IN PUBLIC PLACES – ART IN PUBLIC PLACES – The applicant shall make a good faith 
effort to the mutual satisfaction of the Community Development Director and the 
applicant to install public art on the project site in accordance with Chapter 23.60 of the 
Municipal Code. If installed, the public art shall be located on the rear (east) building 
façade facing the Downtown Caltrain Station in accordance with the direction from the 
Civic Arts Commission at their January 8, 2024 meeting. (PLANNING/BUILDING)
If the public art is not installed on the exterior wall, the stairwell behind the windows shall 
be painted in a dark color to match the window mullions to the satisfaction of the 
Community Development Director. (PLANNING).
66 SOIL FINAL REPORT – The Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared the soil 
investigation, or an equally qualified professional, shall issue a final report stating the 
completed pad, foundation, finish grading and associated site work substantially conform 
to the approved plans, specifications and investigations, to the satisfaction of the Building 
Official or his/her designee. (BUILDING)
67 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – (This condition applies when there is 2500 sqft 
or more landscaping work performed to the project site) In accordance with the City’s 
Water Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance in Municipal Code Section 23.72.030, a 
licensed landscape architect, a licensed landscape contractor, or a certified irrigation 
designer shall complete the “Certification of Completion” in the City of San Mateo Water 
Conservation in Landscaping form. Upon completion of the work, the certification of 
completion shall be submitted to the City’s Building Inspector subject to the review and 
approval of the Building Official, or his/her designee. (BUILDING)
Fire Department (PA)
68 EMERGENCY RESPONDER RADIO COVERAGE – An Emergency Responder Radio Coverage 
system may be required for this project.  Testing shall occur during construction due to 
circuit protection requirements that will affect building design. The applicant shall provide

--- page 53 ---
a third-party testing grid report to the Fire Department subject to the review and approval 
by the Fire Marshal or his/her designee prior to the Fire Final Inspection. (FIRE)
69 FIRE HYDRANTS – The applicant shall install the approved number of public/private fire 
hydrant(s) spaced as per the Fire Department’s local Ordinance. All fire hydrants used for 
fire flow for the project site shall be upgraded to a Clow model 960 or equivalent 
consisting of (2) 2-½ inch and (1) 4-½ inch outlets. Each hydrant shall be capable of 
providing a minimum fire flow of 1500 gpm at 20 psi residual pressure. Water supply for 
fire protection is required to be installed in accordance with water purveyor’s 
specifications.  The water supply shall be tested, flushed and approved operable prior to 
any combustible construction materials being placed on the site.  Staged construction 
shall insure that the necessary water supply is maintained from stage to stage in the 
construction planning. The letter shall be submitted to the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee for review and approval prior to the Fire Final Inspection. (FIRE) 
Public Works Department (PA)
70 RECORD DRAWINGS – The applicant shall submit one full set of original record drawings 
and construction specifications for all off-site improvements to the Department of Public 
Works. All underground facilities shall be shown on the record drawings as constructed in 
the field. The applicant shall also provide the City with an electronic copy of the as-builts 
in PDF and the AutoCAD Version being used by the City at the time of completion of the 
work. (PUBLIC WORKS)
71 RESTORATION OF ROADWAY – The project shall grind and overlay 2.5 inches of asphalt 
concrete in substantial conformance with the planning application. Subject to the Public 
Works Inspector, pavement failures that occur during construction shall be restored to 
City Engineer satisfaction. (PUBLIC WORKS)
72 STORM WATER TREATMENT FACILITIES MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT – The applicant shall 
execute a maintenance agreement with the City’s Director of Public Works or designee as 
specified in San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39 of the Stormwater Management and 
Discharge Control ordinance and the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention 
Program C.3 Program Technical Guidance. The agreement shall outline the continuous 
operation and maintenance (O&M) plan for the permanent storm water treatment 
facilities including irrigation and landscape maintenance of Green Infrastructure elements 
constructed in the public right-of-way and shall be recorded with the County Recorder’s 
Office. This agreement shall be executed prior to the first occupancy of the building. 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
73 TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM) PROGRAM – The project shall 
implement a Transportation Demand Management Program using programs in 
compliance with the San Mateo City/County Association of Governments (C/CAG) TDM 
Checklist.  These programs, once implemented, shall be on-going for the occupied life of 
the development. The actions included in the plan will include those listed in the approved

--- page 54 ---
project Transportation Demand Management Checklist prepared by Steer Consulting, 
dated May 2024, or a combination of other actions based on the C/CAG Guidelines, that 
result in a 25% reduction of project generated trips.  Actions include the following: TDM 
Coordinator, participation in the Commute.org TMA equivalent, Carpool or vanpool 
program, transit/ridesharing passes/subsidies, pre-tax transportation benefits, secure 
bicycle storage, designing streets to encourage bike/pedestrian access, showers/locker 
rooms, and flex time/telecommuting. The program shall be recorded with C/CAG.  (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
CDD Arborist (PA)
74 FINAL ARBORIST REPORT – The Project Arborist shall perform a final site inspection and 
submit a final arborist report to the Building Division. At minimum, the final arborist 
report shall confirm that the approved tree protection measures were implemented and 
shall assess the condition of Protected Tree(s). Any damage to existing Protected Tree(s) 
shall be subject to replacement and/or penalties in accordance with Municipal Code 
Section 13.40.160 subject to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or 
his/her designee. (CDD ARBORIST)
The following conditions shall be met prior to the approval of the FINAL MAP or PARCEL MAP.
Public Works Department (PA)
75 SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT – If the applicant wishes to have the parcel 
map approved prior to the completion of the project’s public improvements, the applicant 
shall enter into a subdivision improvement agreement with the City per Gov. Code Section 
66462(a) and shall arrange to provide security for the remaining public improvements to 
be completed. The agreement will be forwarded to the City Council for approval per San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 3.60. (PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION PHASE 
OF THE PROJECT.
Planning Division (PA)
76 CULTURAL RESOURCES – In the event of the discovery of human remains whether on-site 
in the public right-of-way, the applicant shall halt all activity within 50 feet of the 
discovery and notify the Planning Manager and/or Project Planner. The applicant shall also 
immediately notify San Mateo County Coroner to have a determination made as to 
whether the remains are of Native American origin or whether an investigation into the 
cause of death is required. Treatment of human remains and any associated or 
unassociated funerary objects discovered during any soil-disturbing activity within the 
project site shall comply with applicable State laws. If the remains are determined to be 
Native American, the Coroner will notify the Native American Heritage Commission 
(NAHC) immediately. Once the NAHC identifies the most likely descendants, the 
descendants will make recommendations regarding proper burial, which will be 
implemented in accordance with Section 15064.5(e) of the CEQA Guidelines. (PLANNING)

--- page 55 ---
77 FRAME/PLANNING ROUGH INSPECTION – Upon completion of all framing and prior to the 
installation of exterior sheathing and windows, the applicant shall request the Project 
Planner conduct a Rough Frame inspection to verify items including, but not limited to, 
window locations, window sizes, and massing. The applicant shall contact the Project 
Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance of the requested 
inspection. (PLANNING)
78 PALEONTOLOGICAL RESOURCES – In the event of the discovery of paleontological 
resources (fossils) whether on-site or in the public right-of-way, the applicant shall halt all 
construction activities within 50 feet of the discovery, notify the Planning Manager and/or 
Project Planner, and retain a qualified paleontologist to determine the significance of the 
discovery. The paleontologist shall evaluate the uniqueness of the find, prepare a written 
report documenting the find and recommending further courses of action, and submit a 
summary of findings to the Project Planner. The applicant shall incorporate the 
recommendations of the paleontologist when continuing construction. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
79 CONSTRUCTION WORK HOURS – Construction shall occur only between the hours of 7:00 
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on 
Saturday, and between 12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m. on Sundays and holidays. These hours do 
not apply to construction that takes place inside a completely enclosed building and does 
not exceed the exterior ambient noise level as measured 10 feet from the exterior 
property lines. The applicant shall conform to the construction work hours to control 
traffic congestion, noise, and dust unless an exemption is granted in accordance with 
Municipal Code Section 23.06.061. (BUILDING)
Fire Department (PA)
80 ADDRESS NUMBERS – The applicant shall post temporary address numbers on each 
building at the project site that must be easily visible from the street or fire access road. 
(FIRE)
81 DEMOLITION – The applicant shall comply with the California Fire Code Chapter 33 during 
all phases of construction of the project. (FIRE) 
82 EGRESS – The applicant shall maintain required egress for all adjacent buildings/properties. 
(FIRE) 
83 STANDPIPES – For projects that require standpipes by California Fire Code Section 905.3.1, 
the applicant shall provide not less than one standpipe for use during construction or 
demolition. (FIRE)

--- page 56 ---
Public Works Department (PA)
84 ARCHITECTURAL COPPER – Per the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention 
Program’s requirements, the applicant shall follow the specific best management practices 
for the installation of the Architectural Copper. For detailed information please distribute 
the flyer to all construction personnel involved in the fabrication and installation of the 
Architectural Copper that is located at: https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-
stormwater-pollution/with-new-redevelopment/construction-best-practices/  (PUBLIC 
WORKS/BUILDING)
85 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – The applicant shall perform all construction 
activities in accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control 
Rules and Regulations (SMMC 7.39), and the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution 
Prevention Plan (SMCWPPP) by reference. Detailed information can be located at: 
https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-stormwater-pollution/with-new-
redevelopment/construction-best-practices/ 
(PUBLIC WORKS)
86 CONSTRUCTION WORKER PARKING – The applicant shall provide a construction-parking 
plan that minimizes the effect of construction worker parking in the neighborhood and 
shall include an estimate of the number of workers that will be present on the site during 
the various phases of construction and indicate where sufficient off-street parking will be 
utilized and identify any locations for off-site material deliveries. Said plan shall be 
approved by the Director of Public Works or designee prior to issuance of City permits and 
shall be complied with at all times during construction. Failure to enforce the parking plan 
may result in suspension of the City permits. (PUBLIC WORKS)
87 GROUND WATER DISCHARGE – In accordance with the Director of Public Works 
Groundwater Discharge Policy, discharge of contaminated groundwater to the sanitary 
sewer is only allowed on a temporary basis and will not be permitted for a period greater 
than 6 months. Discharges for longer than 6 months shall obtain an NPDES permit from the 
State Water Board to discharge to the storm drain system. Discharge of uncontaminated 
groundwater to the storm drain is permissible if the applicant can provide analytical data 
to support the claim. No discharge to the storm drain shall be allowed without prior 
approval from the Public Works Department. All discharges to the sanitary sewer 
(contaminated and uncontaminated) require a Waste Discharge Permit and shall comply 
with the City’s discharge limits. (PUBLIC WORKS)
88 HOLIDAY CONSTRUCTION MORATORIUM – Due to concerns for businesses within the 
vicinity of Hillsdale Mall and within the Downtown area during the holiday season (Monday 
prior to Thanksgiving to January 1), there shall be no construction activities within the 
right-of-way which would create lane closures, eliminate parking, create pedestrian 
detours, or other activities that may create a major disturbance as determined by the 
Director of Public Works or designee. Exceptions to this condition shall be made in writing 
to the Public Works Director or designee. Prohibition on El Camino Real shall be

--- page 57 ---
along its entire length within the City limits. For Hillsdale Shopping Center, the 
construction prohibition streets shall include Hillsdale Boulevard between U.S. 101 and SR 
92, 31st Avenue between El Camino Real and Hacienda Street, and Edison Street and 
Hacienda Street in the vicinity of the shopping center. For purposes of this condition, the 
limits of the Downtown area shall be defined as: between El Camino Real on the west and 
Delaware Street on the east, Tilton Avenue on the north, and Fifth Avenue on the south. 
The prohibition shall also include the 3rd and 4th Avenue corridors between Delaware 
Street and U.S. 101. (PUBLIC WORKS)
89 MATERIAL HAULING – For material delivery vehicles equal to, or larger than two-axle, six-
tire single unit truck (SU) size or larger as defined by FHWA Standards, the applicant shall 
submit a truck hauling route that conforms to City of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 
11.28.040 for the approval of the Director of Public Works or designee. The project 
sponsor shall require contractors to prohibit trucks from using “compression release 
engine brakes” on residential streets. The haul route for this project shall be as approved 
by the Director of Public Works or designee. A letter from the applicant confirming the 
intention to use this hauling route shall be submitted to the Department of Public Works, 
and approved, prior to the issuance of any City permits. All material hauling activities 
including but not limited to, adherence to the approved route, hours of operation, staging 
of materials, dust control and street maintenance shall be the responsibility of the 
applicant. All storage and office trailers shall be kept off the public right-of-way. Tracking 
of dirt onto City streets and walks will not be allowed. Entry and exit from the site will use 
rock or rumble strips to prevent tracking. The applicant shall provide an approved method 
of cleaning tires and trimming loads on site. Any job related dirt and/or debris that 
impacts the public right of way shall be removed immediately. No wash down of dirt into 
storm drains is allowed. Use of a sweeper is permissible as long as it operates dry (no 
water used, only vacuum). All material hauling activities shall be done in accordance with 
applicable City ordinances and conditions of approval. Violation of such may be cause for 
suspension of work. (PUBLIC WORKS)
90 PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES – The following provision to control traffic 
congestion, noise, and dust shall be followed during site excavation, grading and 
construction:
(A) Construction activities related to the issuance of any Public Works permit shall be 
restricted to the weekday between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Please note, however, that no 
work shall be allowed to take place within the City right-of-way after 5:00 p.m. In addition, 
no work being done under the issuance of a Public Works encroachment permit may be 
performed on the weekend unless prior approvals have been granted by Public Works. 
Earth haul and materials delivery to and from the site, including truck arrivals and 
departures to and from the site, will be prohibited between the weekday hours of 4:00 
p.m.   5:30 p.m. Signs outlining these restrictions shall be posted at conspicuous locations 
on site. The signs shall be per the City Standard Drawing for posting construction hours. 
The sign shall be kept free of graffiti at all times. Contact the Public Works Department to

--- page 58 ---
obtain sample City Standard sign outlining hours of operation.

--- page 59 ---
The allowed hours of Public Works construction activities may be waived or modified 
through an exemption, for limited periods, if the Director of Public Works or designee 
finds that:
(i) The following criteria are met:
(a) Permitting extended hours of construction will decrease the total time needed to 
complete the project thus mitigating the total amount of noise associated with the project 
as a whole; or
(b) Permitting extended hours of construction are required to accommodate design or 
engineering requirements, such as a large concrete pour. Such a need would be 
determined by the project's design engineer and requires approval from the Director of 
Public Works or designee. 
(c) An emergency situation exists where the construction work is necessary to correct an 
unsafe or dangerous condition resulting in obvious and eminent peril to public health and 
safety. If such a condition exists, the City may waive any of the remaining requirements 
outlined below.
(ii) The exemption will not conflict with any other condition of approval required by the 
City to mitigate significant impacts.
(iii) The contractor or owner of the property will notify residential and commercial 
occupants of property adjacent to the construction site of the hours of construction 
activity which may impact the area. This notification shall be provided three days prior to 
the start of the extended construction activity.
(iv) The approved hours of construction activity will be posted at the construction site in a 
place and manner that can be easily viewed by any interested member of the public.
The Director of Public Works or designee may revoke the exemption at any time if the 
contractor or owner of the property fails to abide by the conditions of exemption or if it is 
determined that the peace, comfort and tranquility of the occupants of adjacent 
residential or commercial properties are impaired because of the location and nature of 
the construction. The waiver application shall be submitted to the Public Works 
Construction Inspector ten (10) working days prior to the requested date of waiver.
(B) All construction vehicles shall be properly maintained and equipped with exhaust 
mufflers that meet State standards.
(C) Newly disturbed soil surfaces shall be watered down regularly by a water trucks or by 
other approved method maintained on site during all grading operations. Construction 
grading activity shall be discontinued in wind conditions that in the opinion of the Public 
Works Construction Inspector cause excessive neighborhood dust problems. Wash down

--- page 60 ---
of dirt and debris into storm drain systems will not be allowed.
(D) Construction activities shall be scheduled so that paving and foundation placement 
begin immediately upon completion of grading operation.
(E) All aggregate materials transported to and from the site shall be covered in accordance 
with Section 23114 of the California Vehicle Code during transit to and from the site. 
(F) Prior to issuance of any permit, the applicant shall submit any applicable pedestrian or 
traffic detour plans, to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works or designee, for any 
lane or sidewalk closures. The detour plan shall comply with Part 6, Temporary Traffic 
Control, of the State of California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), 
2012, and standard construction practices. (PUBLIC WORKS)
CDD Arborist (PA)
91 PROJECT ARBORIST INSPECTIONS – The Project Arborist shall submit a report to the 
Building Division within five business days after each of his/her inspection documenting 
the condition of trees, protection measures changes or adjustments, and/or any damages 
to Protected trees. (CDD ARBORIST)
92 TREE PROTECTION MEASURES – All approved tree protection measures shall remain in 
place and be properly maintained during all phases of construction. The applicant or 
contractor shall notify the Project Arborist in advance when construction operations are to 
be performed within the Tree Protection Zone of protected trees. (e.g. trenching, 
excavation, grade changes, etc.) Adjustment of Tree Protection Measures requires 
approval from the City Arborist.  (CDD ARBORIST)
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the project permitted by this 
planning application occupies the premises.
Planning Division (PA)
93 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE AT ALL TIMES – All physical 
improvements, uses, and operational requirements authorized by the approved planning 
application shall, at all times that the use permitted by this planning application occupies 
the premises, substantially conform with the approved planning application. This includes 
but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and other items submitted as 
part of the approved planning application. Any proposed modifications to the approved 
planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the proposed modifications. The 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee shall determine whether the 
proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved planning application, or 
whether a planning application modification is required to be submitted to permit the 
proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications.  
(PLANNING)

--- page 61 ---
94 ONGOING LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE – All landscaped areas shall be maintained free of 
litter, debris and weeds. All plantings shall be permanently maintained in a healthy 
growing condition and, whenever necessary, replaced with equivalent plant materials to 
ensure continued conformance with approved plans. (PLANNING)
95 The project shall incorporate the measures below to control and reduce construction dust:
(A) All exposed surfaces (e.g., parking areas, staging areas, soil piles, graded areas, and 
unpaved access roads) shall be watered two times per day. Newly disturbed soil surfaces 
shall be watered down regularly by a water-truck or by other approved method 
maintained on site during all grading operations.
(B) All aggregate materials transported to and from the site shall be covered in accordance 
with Section 23114 of the California Vehicle Code during transit to and from the site.  All 
haul trucks transporting soil, sand, or other loose material off-site shall be covered.
(C) All visible mud or dirt track-out onto adjacent public roads shall be removed using wet 
power vacuum street sweepers at least once per day. The use of dry power sweeping is 
prohibited. 
(D) Construction grading activity shall be discontinued in wind conditions that in the 
opinion of the Public Works Construction Inspector cause excessive neighborhood dust 
problems.
(E) All construction vehicles should be properly maintained and equipped with exhaust 
mufflers that meet State standards.
(F) All vehicle speeds on unpaved roads shall be limited to 15 mph.
(G) All roadways, driveways, and sidewalks to be paved shall be completed as soon as 
possible. Building pads shall be laid as soon as possible after grading unless seeding or soil 
binders are used.
(H) Post a publicly visible sign with the telephone number and person to contact at the 
Lead Agency regarding dust complaints. This person shall respond and take corrective 
action within 48 hours. The Air District’s phone number shall also be visible to ensure 
compliance with applicable regulations.
(PLANNING/BUILDING)
City Attorney (PA)
96 INDEMNIFICATION – The applicant will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City of 
San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against 
any costs, claims, or liabilities arising out of the approval of this planning application, 
including, without limitation, any award of attorney fees that might result from third party 
challenge.  If the applicant is required to defend the City, the City shall retain the right to 
select the counsel who shall defend the City.  (CITY ATTORNEY)
97 PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.02.210-Violations of 
Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of the conditions of approval is 
unlawful and will subject the applicant to the penalties set forth in Chapter 1.04-General 
Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal Code as well as any other available legal remedies.  
(CITY ATTORNEY)

--- page 62 ---
Police Department (PA)
98 RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGES SERVICE TRAINING – If the sale of alcoholic beverage service for 
on-site consumption is proposed, the applicant shall require that employees and 
supervisors responsible for the sale or service of alcoholic beverages complete 
Responsible Beverage Service training provided by the California Department of Alcoholic 
Beverage Control, or a service provider listed with ABC. (POLICE)
99 SITE LIGHTING STANDARDS – Exterior security lighting in compliance with the Building 
Security Code “Exterior Security Lighting” (San Mateo Municipal Code Section 23.54.060) 
shall be provided and maintained at all times that the use permitted by this planning 
application occupies the premises. Site lighting shall comply with the requirement of an 
average illuminance of 1 foot-candle, a minimum illuminance of 0.3 foot-candle, and a 
uniformity ratio not to exceed 4:1 average to minimum. Light sources shall be capable of 
producing a “bright white” light with a color temperature between 3000K and 4000K and 
a color rendering index (CRI) of at least 65 unless otherwise approved.  This lighting 
standard is applicable to all alleys, aisles, recesses, and grounds contiguous to all buildings. 
The lighting system shall be so designed as to limit light spill beyond property lines and to 
shield the light source from view from off site.  (POLICE)
100 VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS – The applicant shall install and operate for the life of 
the project a video surveillance system subject to the following requirements:
(A) The information shall be maintained and retrievable for a minimum of 30 days.  The 
captured video material shall be accessible to investigating police personnel through some 
form of facility management during regular business hours.  The applicant shall provide 
proof of registration of the video surveillance camera system with the City through the 
City’s Neighborhood Eyes Security Team web form 
(https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/forms.aspx?FID=134).
(B) Cameras shall be placed and maintained to view common areas of the property 
accessible to the public such as lobbies, alleys, aisles, recesses, and grounds contiguous to 
all buildings.  This condition is not intended to require Applicant to install pole mount 
cameras on the property, cameras to view these areas may be installed on the building 
facing out.
(C) The cameras in this system shall be megapixel or better CCTV cameras that shall be 
capable of operating in all lighting conditions anticipated at project completion. (POLICE)
Public Works Department (PA)
101 FOOD SERVICE EQUIPMENT CLEANING – The tenant improvement of any food service 
facilities shall have any sink or other floor mat, container, and equipment cleaning area, 
connected to a grease interceptor prior to discharging to the sanitary sewer system. The 
cleaning area shall be large enough to clean the largest mat or piece of equipment to be

--- page 63 ---
cleaned. The cleaning area shall be indoors or in a covered outdoor area; either areas 
being plumbed to the sanitary sewer. Outdoor cleaning areas shall be designed to prevent 
stormwater run-on from entering the sanitary sewer and to prevent stormwater run-off 
from carrying pollutants to the site storm drains. Signs shall be posted indicating that all 
food service equipment washing activities shall be conducted in this area. Regular 
maintenance and cleaning of the grease interceptor is required. (PUBLIC WORKS)
102 POST CONSTRUCTION BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – In accordance with the 
City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control Rules and Regulations, San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, and the San Mateo Countywide Stormwater Management 
Plan (SWMP) by reference, the applicant shall:
(A) Owner/occupant shall inspect private stormwater treatment devices and GI features in 
the public right-of-way at least two (2) times per year and sweep parking lots immediately 
prior to and once during the storm season.
(B) The applicant shall pay a fee on a yearly basis for cost associated with, but not limited 
to, City inspection of the private stormwater treatment facilities, emergency maintenance 
needed to protect public health or watercourses, and facility replacement or repair in the 
event that the treatment facility is no longer able to meet performance standards or has 
deteriorated. The fee shall be based upon the Comprehensive Fee Schedule, established 
by the City Council, in effect at the time.
(C) Label new and redeveloped storm drain inlets with the phrase “No Dumping – Drains 
to Bay” plaques to alert the public to the destination of storm water and to prevent direct 
discharge of pollutants into the storm drain. Template ordering information is available 
from the Department of Public Works.
(D) All process equipment, oils fuels, solvents, coolants, fertilizers, pesticides, and similar 
chemical products, as well as petroleum-based wastes, tallow, and grease planned for 
storage outdoors shall be stored in covered containers at all times. (PUBLIC WORKS)
103 TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM) PLAN – Once implemented, the 
Transportation Demand Management Plan shall be monitored and assessed annually for 
the occupied life of the development. The program shall be recorded with the County.  
The assessment of compliance with the Transportation Demand Management Plan, 
including mode split survey results, shall be submitted to Public Works by the end of every 
calendar year (December 31st). 
The following conditions are MITIGATION MEASURES that mitigate adverse environmental effects 
identified in the environmental document. Monitoring and reporting procedures are contained 
within each condition. A change in the condition of approval may affect the validity of the current 
environmental document, and a new or amended environmental document may be required.
Planning Division (PA)

--- page 64 ---
104 MM BIO-1.1: Prior to the issuance of a demolition permit, building permit, grading permit, 
or site development permit for tree removal (whichever occurs first), the applicant shall 
submit a phasing plan to the City’s Planning Division with a schedule of both on-site and 
off-site demolition and construction activities to review the activities that may occur 
during the nesting season subject to the satisfaction of the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee. The nesting season for most birds, including most raptors in 
the San Francisco Bay area, extends from February 1 through August 31 (inclusive).
105 MM BIO-1.2: (A) If any demolition and construction are scheduled during the nesting 
season, between February 1 and August 31 (inclusive), the applicant shall engage a 
qualified ornithologist to complete a pre-construction survey for nesting birds to ensure 
that no nests are disturbed during demolition or construction. During this survey, the 
ornithologist shall inspect all trees and other possible nesting habitats immediately 
adjacent to the construction areas for nests. This survey shall be completed no more than 
14 days prior to the initiation of any construction or demolition activities during the early 
part of the breeding season (February 1 through April 30 inclusive) and no more than 30 
days prior to the initiation of these activities during the late part of the breeding season 
(May 1 through August 31 inclusive). 
 If an active nest is found sufficiently close to work areas to be disturbed by construction 
(typically 300 feet for raptors and 100 feet for other species), the ornithologist, in 
consultation with the California Department of Fish and Wildlife, shall determine the 
extent of a construction free buffer zone to be established around the nest to ensure that 
bird nests shall not be disturbed during project construction.
 (B) Prior to each phase of demolition and construction, the ornithologist shall submit a 
report identifying designated buffer zones to the City’s Planning Division subject to the 
satisfaction of the Director of Community Development, or his/her designee.
106 MM CUL-1.1: A Registered Professional Archaeologist (RPA) shall monitor the removal of 
any subsurface foundations or infrastructure or any other subsurface components during 
demolition within the project site. Prior to the issuance of a demolition permit, the 
applicant and RPA shall submit a focused Archaeological Monitoring Plan (AMP) to 
monitor removal of subsurface foundations and infrastructure and hardscape and 
landscaping that will impact native soils to the Community Development Director, or 
his/her designee for review and approval. Minimum components to be included in the 
AMP are Worker Awareness Training (WAT), monitoring protocols, and investigation and 
evaluation procedures for archaeological discovery.
The AMP shall include a provision for WAT for cultural resources for subsurface demolition 
and excavation contractors. If potentially significant archaeological resources are exposed 
during demolition, work shall stop at the location of the find and the find be protected 
until it can be identified and evaluated by the RPA. If the resource is evaluated as a 
significant historic resources or unique archaeological resources under CEQA, this decision 
shall be communicated to the Community Development Director, or his/her designee for

--- page 65 ---
review and archaeological testing shall commence in accordance with procedures outlined 
under MM CUL-1.2 If the resource is determined not to be a significant historic resource 
or unique archaeological resource under CEQA, this decision shall be communicated to the 
Community Development Director, and no further action is required.
107 MM CUL-1.2: (A) Prior to the issuance of a demolition permit, the applicant and an RPA 
shall submit an Archaeological Testing Plan (ATP) to the Community Development Director 
or his/her designee for review and approval. The ATP will include field testing protocols 
and procedures, outline consultation and coordination with the applicant and City, discuss 
testing observations, and outline parameters for a post-field technical memo. The 
parameters will include an evaluation of the “uniqueness” of any finds and anticipated 
impacts and will provide recommendations to reduce impacts in accordance with 
California Public Resources Code Section 15064.6 (e.g., avoidance, preservation in-place, 
recordation, additional archeological testing and data recovery).
(B) After the completion of demolition, an RPA shall complete a systematic subsurface 
presence/absence testing program within the project site with the objective of 
determining the presence/absence of significant archaeological materials and their 
horizontal and vertical extent. Mechanically assisted subsurface testing shall be completed 
with depths to be determined by the protocols established in the ATP. Other protocols 
may be used including hand-augur borings and shovel test units to check any potential 
discoveries. Further mitigation measures and findings of the post-field technical memo 
shall be submitted for review and approval of the Community Development Director or 
his/her designee following demolition and prior to issuance of a building permit.
108 MM HAZ-1.1: To reduce the potential for construction worker and nearby sensitive 
receptor exposure to hazardous materials (ACMs, LBPs, and PCBs), the applicant shall 
implement the following measures prior to and during demolition and construction:   
(A) Prior to issuance of a demolition permit, the applicant shall submit a PCB Screening 
Assessment Form to the Building Division. As required under the Toxic Substances Control 
Act (TSCA), all building materials containing PCBs at levels greater than 50 parts per million 
(ppm) shall be removed upon discovery. If on-site buildings do contain PCBs that exceed 
threshold limits, the applicant shall follow applicable federal and state laws, which 
includes reporting to the Environmental Protection Agency, Regional Water Quality 
Control Board, and Department of Toxic Substances Control, who may require additional 
sampling and abatement of PCBs. If demolition is likely to impact such materials, they 
must be properly characterized by an Environmental Professional (as defined in Title 40 of 
the California Code of Federal Regulations) and removed in accordance with TSCA 
regulations.
(B) In conformance with local, state, and federal laws, the applicant shall engage a 
qualified professional to complete an asbestos building survey and a lead-based paint 
survey to determine the presence of ACMs and/or lead-based paint on the structures 
proposed for demolition prior to issuance of a demolition permit. Written findings of the 
surveys shall be submitted to the Building Division subject to the satisfaction of the

--- page 66 ---
Community Development Director, or his/her designee.
(C) If the presence of ACMs is found through surveys, the applicant shall retain a 
registered asbestos abatement contractor to remove and dispose of all potentially friable 
asbestos-containing materials, in accordance with the National Emission Standards for 
Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) guidelines, prior to the issuance a demolition permit. 
The applicant shall conduct all construction activities in accordance with California Division 
of Occupational Safety and Health (Cal/OSHA) standards, contained in Title 8 of the 
California Code of Regulations (CCR), Section 1529, to protect workers from exposure to 
asbestos. Materials containing more than one percent asbestos are also subject to Bay 
Area Quality Management District (BAAQMD) regulations.
(D) If the presence of lead-based paint is found through surveys, prior to any demolition 
activities, the applicant shall remove all building materials containing lead-based paint in 
accordance with Cal/OSHA Lead in Construction Standard, Title 8, CCR 1532.1, including 
employee training, employee air monitoring and dust control. The applicant shall dispose 
of any debris or soil containing lead-based paint or coatings at landfills that meet 
acceptance criteria for the waste being disposed.
(E) If previously unknown ‘orphan’ USTs or piping are encountered during construction 
excavation activities for the building footing, the applicant shall halt all work, notify the 
City’s Building Division and CUPA, and obtain additional permits to remove the 
encountered tanks and/or piping. Removals and compliance sampling will be under the 
oversight of the CUPA. The removal of known or new USTs found during construction, 
along with any contaminated soil that is removed at that time will be reported to the 
CUPA in a UST removal report. Remediation Excavation of soil for the construction of the 
building footing will remove and properly dispose of contaminated soils that may be 
present beneath the site. If soil contamination at concentrations that exceed applicable 
ESLs is observed at the base of the construction related grading or utility trenching, 
additional localized excavation(s) may occur as a contingency. Oversight of remediation 
shall be provided by the San Mateo County Groundwater Protection Program GPP. 
Implementation of a Redevelopment Management Plan and Soil Management Plan will be 
provided in a Construction Completion Report submitted to the GPP.
109 MM HAZ-2.1: Based on the history of the project site, areas of impacted soil, soil vapor, 
and/or groundwater may be encountered during construction activities. Prior to issuance 
of any grading permit or building permit (whichever is required first) involving conducting 
earthwork activities at the project site (whichever occurs first), a Site Management Plan 
(SMP) and Health and Safety Plan (HSP) shall be prepared. The purpose of these 
documents will be to establish appropriate management practices for encountering 
and/or handling impacted soil, soil vapor and groundwater that may be encountered 
during construction activities. The SMP and HSP shall be designed to protect human health 
of construction workers, the public and the environment during site preparation, grading, 
and excavation activities by including protocols, measures, and techniques for the proper 
handling, management, and disposition of affected soil, soil vapor, and groundwater 
found on the site during such activities. The SMP and HSP shall be prepared by a 
commercial environmental engineering firm with demonstrated expertise and experience 
in the preparation of SMPs and HSPs and shall be stamped by an appropriately licensed 
professional. The SMP and HSP shall be submitted to the City Community Development

--- page 67 ---
Department Director or his/her designee prior to issuance of any grading or building 
permit. The SMP and HSP shall be implemented by the applicant throughout all ground-
disturbing work.
110 MM NOI-1.1: Prior to the issuance of a grading, demolition, or building permit (whichever 
occurs first), the applicant shall submit a Construction Management Plan to the Planning 
and Building Division, subject to review and the satisfaction of the Community 
Development Director or his/her designee.  The Construction Management Plan shall be 
incorporated into the demolition and building permit plans as conditions and be 
implemented throughout the project.  The Construction Management plan shall 
incorporate the following measures to reduce noise impacts from construction activities:
• The Construction Management Plan shall identify the schedule for major noise-
generating construction activities. The construction plan shall identify a procedure for 
coordination with adjacent residential land uses such as noticing so that construction 
activities can be scheduled to minimize noise disturbance.
• Construction staging areas shall be established at locations that will create the greatest 
distance between the construction-related noise sources and noise-sensitive receptors 
nearest the project site during all project construction.
• Quieter saws, cement mixers, cranes, dozers, excavators, graders, and pavers shall be 
selected. No individual device or piece of equipment shall produce a noise level exceeding 
90 dBA at a distance of 25 feet from the source.
• All internal combustion engine-driven equipment shall be equipped with intake and 
exhaust mufflers that are in good condition and appropriate for the equipment.
• Unnecessary idling of internal combustion engines for longer than five consecutive 
minutes shall be strictly prohibited.
• Stationary noise-generating equipment shall be located as far as possible from sensitive 
receptors and property lines. If they must be located within 25 feet of receptors and 
property lines, adequate muffling (with barriers or enclosures where feasible and 
appropriate) shall be used to reduce noise levels at the adjacent receptors to 90 dBA. All 
temporary barriers used shall be eight feet in height at minimum, continuous from grade 
to top, with no cracks or gaps, and have a minimum surface density of three pounds per 
square foot (e.g., one-inch-thick wood fence boards).
• Construction contractors and subcontractors shall utilize “quiet” air compressors and 
other stationary noise sources where technology exists.
• The applicant or their designated contractor shall designate a “disturbance coordinator” 
who would be responsible for responding to any complaints about construction noise and 
vibrations. The disturbance coordinator shall determine the cause of the noise complaint 
(e.g., bad muffler, etc.) and shall require that measures be implemented to reduce the 
noise impact. The applicant or their designated contractor shall conspicuously post a 
telephone number for the disturbance coordinator at the construction site and include it 
in the notice sent to neighbors regarding the construction schedule.
111 MM NOI-2.1: The applicant and contractor shall implement a Construction Vibration 
Monitoring Plan to document conditions prior to, during, and after vibration-generating

--- page 68 ---
demolition and construction activities. All monitoring plan tasks shall be undertaken under 
the direction of a licensed Professional Engineer in the State of California. Initial 
placement of sensors, data, and corrective actions shall be reviewed by a licensed 
Professional Structural Engineer in the State of California and shall demonstrate how 
vibration levels during demolition and construction will not exceed 0.25 in/sec PPV at the 
adjacent structurally sensitive building (c. 1908) directly north of the project site, subject 
to all standards and best management practice, in accordance with industry-accepted 
standard methods. The Construction Vibration Monitoring Plan shall be submitted to the 
Building and Planning Division subject to satisfaction of the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee, prior to issuance of any demolition, grading or building 
permits, whichever occurs first, and shall incorporate the following measures:
• A list of all heavy construction equipment to be used for this project known to produce 
high vibration levels (e.g., tracked vehicles, vibratory compaction, jackhammers, hoe rams, 
clam shovel drop, and vibratory roller, etc.) shall be submitted to the City by the 
contractor as well as a list of smaller equipment (less than 18,000 pounds) to be used near 
the north property lines.  
• Smaller equipment (less than 18,000 pounds) shall be used near the property lines 
adjacent to the building to the north and structurally sensitive buildings to the west to 
minimize vibration levels. For example, a smaller vibratory roller similar to a Caterpillar 
model CP433E vibratory compactor could be used when compacting materials within 25 
feet of the adjacent structurally sensitive building (c. 1908) to the north. The smaller 
equipment intended to implement this requirement shall be individually identified among 
the list of equipment required under the above condition as the subset of equipment 
allowed for use at the property lines.
• Avoid dropping heavy equipment and using vibratory rollers within 25 feet of sensitive 
structures to the north. Use alternative methods for breaking up existing pavement, such 
as a pavement grinder, instead of dropping heavy objects, within 25 feet of the adjacent 
north building and the structurally sensitive buildings to the west. Select demolition 
methods that do not involve large impact tools such as hoe-rams within 25 feet of the 
shared property line with structurally sensitive building to the north. Portable 
jackhammers, saws, or grinders shall be used to minimize impacts to the ground.
Additionally, the construction vibration monitoring plan shall include, but not be limited 
to, the following measures to address any potential cosmetic damage:
• A description of measurement methods, equipment used, calibration certificates, and 
graphics as required to clearly identify vibration-monitoring locations.
• A list of all construction equipment to be used and the anticipated time of duration shall 
be submitted by the contractor.
• Document conditions at all structures located within 25 feet of the construction site, 
where access is granted, prior to, during, and after vibration-generating construction 
activities. Perform a photo survey, elevation survey, and crack monitoring survey prior to 
any construction activity, at the end of each phase of construction (demolition, site 
preparation, grading/excavation, trenching, building construction, and paving), and after 
project completion, and shall include internal and external crack monitoring in structures,

--- page 69 ---
settlement, and distress, and shall document the condition of foundations, walls, and 
other structural elements in the interior and exterior of said structures. Where the crack 
survey identifies damage to adjacent buildings, the applicant shall be responsible for any 
repairs.
• A plan to identify structures where and when monitoring would be conducted. If 
vibration levels exceed the limits, suspend construction and implement contingency 
measures to either lower vibration levels or secure the affected structures.
• The applicant or their designated contractor shall identify a “disturbance coordinator” 
responsible for registering and investigating claims of excessive vibration. The disturbance 
coordinator shall determine the cause of the complaint and shall require that measures be 
implemented to reduce the vibration impact. The applicant or their designated contractor 
shall conspicuously post a telephone number for the disturbance coordinator at the 
construction site and include it in the notice sent to neighbors regarding the construction 
schedule.
• A completed monitoring report and findings of the crack surveys and any repairs done 
shall be made available to the Building and Planning Division prior to final building 
inspection for the demolition and start of superstructure construction; and final 
occupancy.

--- page 70 ---
EXHIBIT A
EXHIBIT B
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project
PA-2022-089
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
July 2024

--- page 71 ---
31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program
Page 1

--- page 72 ---
31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program
Page 2
P R E F A C E
Section 21081 of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requires a Lead Agency to adopt a 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program whenever it approves a project for which measures have been 
required to mitigate or avoid significant effects on the environment. The purpose of the monitoring and 
reporting program is to ensure compliance with the mitigation measures during project implementation.
The Initial Study for the 31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project concluded that the implementation of the 
project could result in significant effects on the environment and mitigation measures were incorporated into 
the proposed project or are required as a condition of project approval. This Mitigation Monitoring and 
Reporting Program addresses those measures in terms of how and when they will be implemented.
This document does not discuss those subjects for which the Initial Study concluded that the impacts from 
implementation of the project would be less than significant and for which no mitigation measures would be 
required.

--- page 73 ---
31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program
Page 3
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
31-57 SOUTH B STREET MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA-2022-089)
Mitigation
Timeframe for 
Implementation
Responsibi
Implemen
Mitigation Measures
BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES
Impact BIO-1: Construction activities associated with the proposed project could result in the loss of fertile eggs, nesting
migratory birds, or nest abandonment.
MM BIO-1.1:
Prior to the issuance of a demolition permit, building permit, 
grading permit, or site development permit for tree removal 
(whichever occurs first), the applicant shall submit a phasing 
plan to the City’s Planning Division with a schedule of both 
on-site and off-site demolition and construction activities to 
review the activities that may occur during the nesting season 
subject to the satisfaction of the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee. The nesting season for most 
birds, including most raptors in the San Francisco Bay area, 
extends from February 1 through August 31 (inclusive).
MM BIO-1.2:
(A) If any demolition and construction are scheduled during 
the nesting season, between February 1 and August 31 
(inclusive), the applicant shall engage a qualified ornithologist 
to complete a pre-construction survey for nesting birds to 
ensure that no nests are disturbed during demolition or 
construction. During this survey, the ornithologist shall 
inspect all trees and other possible nesting habitats 
immediately adjacent to the construction areas for nests. This 
survey shall be completed no more than 14 days prior to the 
MM BIO-1.1: Prior 
to the issuance of a 
demolition, 
building, grading, 
or site 
development 
permit (whichever 
occurs first).
MM BIO-1.2: Prior 
to the initiation of 
any construction or 
demolition 
activities.
Project Appl
Project Cont

--- page 74 ---
31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program
Page 4
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
31-57 SOUTH B STREET MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA-2022-089)
Mitigation
Timeframe for 
Implementation
Responsibi
Implemen
initiation of any construction or demolition activities during 
the early part of the breeding season (February 1 through 
April 30 inclusive) and no more than 30 days prior to the 
initiation of these activities during the late part of the 
breeding season (May 1 through August 31 inclusive). 
If an active nest is found sufficiently close to work areas to be 
disturbed by construction (typically 300 feet for raptors and 
100 feet for other species), the ornithologist, in consultation 
with the California Department of Fish and Wildlife, shall 
determine the extent of a construction free buffer zone to be 
established around the nest to ensure that bird nests shall 
not be disturbed during project construction.
(B) Prior to each phase of demolition and construction, the 
ornithologist shall submit a report identifying designated 
buffer zones to the City’s Planning Division subject to the 
satisfaction of the Director of Community Development, or 
his/her designee.
CULTURAL RESOURCES
Impact CUL-1: Development of the project could result in impacts to buried archaeological resources.

--- page 75 ---
31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program
Page 5
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
31-57 SOUTH B STREET MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA-2022-089)
Mitigation
Timeframe for 
Implementation
Responsibi
Implemen
MM CUL-1.1:
A Registered Professional Archaeologist (RPA) shall monitor 
the removal of any subsurface foundations or infrastructure 
or any other subsurface components during demolition 
within the project site. Prior to the issuance of a demolition 
permit, the applicant and RPA shall submit a focused 
Archaeological Monitoring Plan (AMP) to monitor removal of 
subsurface foundations and infrastructure and hardscape and 
landscaping that will impact native soils to the Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee for review and 
approval. Minimum components to be included in the AMP 
are Worker Awareness Training (WAT), monitoring protocols, 
and investigation and evaluation procedures for 
archaeological discovery.
The AMP shall include a provision for WAT for cultural 
resources for subsurface demolition and excavation 
contractors. If potentially significant archaeological resources 
are exposed during demolition, work shall stop at the location 
of the find and the find be protected until it can be identified 
and evaluated by the RPA. If the resource is evaluated as a 
significant historic resources or unique archaeological 
resources under CEQA, this decision shall be communicated 
to the Community Development Director, or his/her designee 
for review and archaeological testing shall commence in 
accordance with procedures outlined under MM CUL-1.2 If 
Prior to the 
issuance of a 
demolition permit.
During demolition
Project Appl
Registered 
Professional
Archaeologi
Registered 
Professional
Archaeologi

--- page 76 ---
31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program
Page 6
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
31-57 SOUTH B STREET MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA-2022-089)
Mitigation
Timeframe for 
Implementation
Responsibi
Implemen
the resource is determined not to be a significant historic 
resource or unique archaeological resource under CEQA, this 
decision shall be communicated to the Community 
Development Director, and no further action is required.
MM CUL-1.2:
(A) Prior to the issuance of a demolition permit, the applicant 
and an RPA shall submit an Archaeological Testing Plan (ATP) 
to the Community Development Director or his/her designee 
for review and approval. The ATP will include field testing 
protocols and procedures, outline consultation and 
coordination with the applicant and City, discuss testing 
observations, and outline parameters for a post-field 
technical memo. The parameters will include an evaluation of 
the “uniqueness” of any finds and anticipated impacts and 
will provide recommendations to reduce impacts in 
accordance with California Public Resources Code Section 
15064.6 (e.g., avoidance, preservation in-place, recordation, 
additional archeological testing and data recovery).
(B) After the completion of demolition, an RPA shall complete 
a systematic subsurface presence/absence testing program 
within the project site with the objective of determining the 
presence/absence of significant archaeological materials and 
their horizontal and vertical extent. Mechanically assisted 
subsurface testing shall be completed with depths to be 
Prior to issuance of 
a demolition 
permit
Following 
demolition, prior to 
building permit 
issuance
Registered 
Professional
Archaeologi
Registered 
Professional
Archaeologi

--- page 77 ---
31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program
Page 7
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
31-57 SOUTH B STREET MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA-2022-089)
Mitigation
Timeframe for 
Implementation
Responsibi
Implemen
determined by the protocols established in the ATP. Other 
protocols may be used including hand-augur borings and 
shovel test units to check any potential discoveries. Further 
mitigation measures and findings of the post-field technical 
memo shall be submitted for review and approval of the 
Community Development Director or his/her designee 
following demolition and prior to issuance of a building 
permit.
HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Impact HAZ-1: Demolition of existing buildings during project construction could result in the release of asbestos-con
lead-based paint (LBPs), and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) which could pose a risk to construction workers and ne
MM HAZ-1.1: 
To reduce the potential for construction worker and nearby 
sensitive receptor exposure to hazardous materials (ACMs, 
LBPs, and PCBs), the applicant shall implement the following 
measures prior to and during demolition and construction:   
(A) Prior to issuance of a demolition permit, the applicant 
shall submit a PCB Screening Assessment Form to the 
Building Division. As required under the Toxic Substances 
Control Act (TSCA), all building materials containing PCBs 
at levels greater than 50 parts per million (ppm) shall be 
Prior to issuance of 
a demolition 
permit.
Project Appl
Project Cont

--- page 78 ---
31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program
Page 8
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
31-57 SOUTH B STREET MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA-2022-089)
Mitigation
Timeframe for 
Implementation
Responsibi
Implemen
removed upon discovery. If on-site buildings do contain 
PCBs that exceed threshold limits, the applicant shall 
follow applicable federal and state laws, which includes 
reporting to the Environmental Protection Agency, 
Regional Water Quality Control Board, and Department of 
Toxic Substances Control, who may require additional 
sampling and abatement of PCBs. If demolition is likely to 
impact such materials, they must be properly 
characterized by an Environmental Professional (as 
defined in Title 40 of the California Code of Federal 
Regulations) and removed in accordance with TSCA 
regulations.
(B) In conformance with local, state, and federal laws, the 
applicant shall engage a qualified professional to 
complete an asbestos building survey and a lead-based 
paint survey to determine the presence of ACMs and/or 
lead-based paint on the structures proposed for 
demolition prior to issuance of a demolition permit. 
Written findings of the surveys shall be submitted to the 
Building Division subject to the satisfaction of the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee.
(C) If the presence of ACMs is found through surveys, the 
applicant shall retain a registered asbestos abatement 
contractor to remove and dispose of all potentially friable 
asbestos-containing materials, in accordance with the

--- page 79 ---
31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program
Page 9
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
31-57 SOUTH B STREET MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA-2022-089)
Mitigation
Timeframe for 
Implementation
Responsibi
Implemen
National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants 
(NESHAP) guidelines, prior to the issuance a demolition 
permit. The applicant shall conduct all construction 
activities in accordance with California Division of 
Occupational Safety and Health (Cal/OSHA) standards, 
contained in Title 8 of the California Code of Regulations 
(CCR), Section 1529, to protect workers from exposure to 
asbestos. Materials containing more than one percent 
asbestos are also subject to Bay Area Quality 
Management District (BAAQMD) regulations.
(D) If the presence of lead-based paint is found through 
surveys, prior to any demolition activities, the applicant 
shall remove all building materials containing lead-based 
paint in accordance with Cal/OSHA Lead in Construction 
Standard, Title 8, CCR 1532.1, including employee 
training, employee air monitoring and dust control. The 
applicant shall dispose of any debris or soil containing 
lead-based paint or coatings at landfills that meet 
acceptance criteria for the waste being disposed.
(E) If previously unknown ‘orphan’ USTs or piping are 
encountered during construction excavation activities for 
the building footing, the applicant shall halt all work, 
notify the City’s Building Division and CUPA, and obtain 
additional permits to remove the encountered tanks 
and/or piping. Removals and compliance sampling will be 
During construction
Project Appl
Project Cont

--- page 80 ---
31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program
Page 10
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
31-57 SOUTH B STREET MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA-2022-089)
Mitigation
Timeframe for 
Implementation
Responsibi
Implemen
under the oversight of the CUPA. The removal of known 
or new USTs found during construction, along with any 
contaminated soil that is removed at that time will be 
reported to the CUPA in a UST removal report. 
Remediation Excavation of soil for the construction of the 
building footing will remove and properly dispose of 
contaminated soils that may be present beneath the site. 
If soil contamination at concentrations that exceed 
applicable ESLs is observed at the base of the construction 
related grading or utility trenching, additional localized 
excavation(s) may occur as a contingency. Oversight of 
remediation shall be provided by the San Mateo County 
Groundwater Protection Program GPP. Implementation of 
a Redevelopment Management Plan and Soil 
Management Plan will be provided in a Construction 
Completion Report submitted to the GPP.
Impact HAZ-2: Construction of the project could result in exposure of construction workers, adjacent uses, and the en
groundwater and soil contamination from petroleum hydrocarbons and chlorinated solvents.
MM HAZ-2.1: 
Based on the history of the project site, areas of impacted 
soil, soil vapor, and/or groundwater may be encountered 
during construction activities. Prior to issuance of any grading 
permit or building permit (whichever is required first) 
Prior to issuance of 
a grading or 
building permit 
(whichever occurs 
Project Appl
Project Cont

--- page 81 ---
31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program
Page 11
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
31-57 SOUTH B STREET MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA-2022-089)
Mitigation
Timeframe for 
Implementation
Responsibi
Implemen
involving conducting earthwork activities at the project site 
(whichever occurs first), a Site Management Plan (SMP) and 
Health and Safety Plan (HSP) shall be prepared. The purpose 
of these documents will be to establish appropriate 
management practices for encountering and/or handling 
impacted soil, soil vapor and groundwater that may be 
encountered during construction activities. The SMP and HSP 
shall be designed to protect human health of construction 
workers, the public and the environment during site 
preparation, grading, and excavation activities by including 
protocols, measures, and techniques for the proper handling, 
management, and disposition of affected soil, soil vapor, and 
groundwater found on the site during such activities. The 
SMP and HSP shall be prepared by a commercial 
environmental engineering firm with demonstrated expertise 
and experience in the preparation of SMPs and HSPs and shall 
be stamped by an appropriately licensed professional. The 
SMP and HSP shall be submitted to the City Community 
Development Department Director or his/her designee prior 
to issuance of any grading or building permit. The SMP and 
HSP shall be implemented by the applicant throughout all 
ground-disturbing work.
first) prior to 
earthwork 
activities.

--- page 82 ---
31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program
Page 12
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
31-57 SOUTH B STREET MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA-2022-089)
Mitigation
Timeframe for 
Implementation
Responsibi
Implemen
NOISE
Impact NOI-1: Construction of the proposed project would exceed the 90 dBA noise limit.
MM NOI-1.1: 
Prior to the issuance of a grading, demolition, or building 
permit (whichever occurs first), the applicant shall submit a 
Construction Management Plan to the Planning and Building 
Division, subject to review and the satisfaction of the 
Community Development Director or his/her designee.  The 
Construction Management Plan shall be incorporated into the 
demolition and building permit plans as conditions and be 
implemented throughout the project.  The Construction 
Management plan shall incorporate the following measures 
to reduce noise impacts from construction activities:

The Construction Management Plan shall identify the 
schedule for major noise-generating construction activities. 
The construction plan shall identify a procedure for 
coordination with adjacent residential land uses such as 
noticing so that construction activities can be scheduled to 
minimize noise disturbance.

Construction staging areas shall be established at locations 
that will create the greatest distance between the 
construction-related noise sources and noise-sensitive 
receptors nearest the project site during all project 
construction.
Prior to the 
issuance of a 
grading, demolition, 
or building permit 
(whichever occurs 
first).
Project Appl
Project Cont

--- page 83 ---
31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program
Page 13
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
31-57 SOUTH B STREET MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA-2022-089)
Mitigation
Timeframe for 
Implementation
Responsibi
Implemen

Quieter saws, cement mixers, cranes, dozers, excavators, 
graders, and pavers shall be selected. No individual device or 
piece of equipment shall produce a noise level exceeding 90 
dBA at a distance of 25 feet from the source.

All internal combustion engine-driven equipment shall be 
equipped with intake and exhaust mufflers that are in good 
condition and appropriate for the equipment.

Unnecessary idling of internal combustion engines for longer 
than five consecutive minutes shall be strictly prohibited.

Stationary noise-generating equipment shall be located as 
far as possible from sensitive receptors and property lines. If 
they must be located within 25 feet of receptors and 
property lines, adequate muffling (with barriers or 
enclosures where feasible and appropriate) shall be used to 
reduce noise levels at the adjacent receptors to 90 dBA. All 
temporary barriers used shall be eight feet in height at 
minimum, continuous from grade to top, with no cracks or 
gaps, and have a minimum surface density of three pounds 
per square foot (e.g., one-inch-thick wood fence boards).

Construction contractors and subcontractors shall utilize 
“quiet” air compressors and other stationary noise sources 
where technology exists.

The applicant or their designated contractor shall designate 
a “disturbance coordinator” who would be responsible for 
responding to any complaints about construction noise and

--- page 84 ---
31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program
Page 14
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
31-57 SOUTH B STREET MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA-2022-089)
Mitigation
Timeframe for 
Implementation
Responsibi
Implemen
vibrations. The disturbance coordinator shall determine 
the cause of the noise complaint (e.g., bad muffler, etc.) 
and shall require that measures be implemented to 
reduce the noise impact. The applicant or their 
designated contractor shall conspicuously post a 
telephone number for the disturbance coordinator at the 
construction site and include it in the notice sent to 
neighbors regarding the construction schedule.
Impact NOI-2: Construction of the proposed project would exceed 0.25 in/sec Peak Particle Velocity (PPV) at the adja
building (c. 1908).
MM NOI-2.1: 
The applicant and contractor shall implement a Construction 
Vibration Monitoring Plan to document conditions prior to, 
during, and after vibration-generating demolition and 
construction activities. All monitoring plan tasks shall be 
undertaken under the direction of a licensed Professional 
Engineer in the State of California. Initial placement of 
sensors, data, and corrective actions shall be reviewed by a 
licensed Professional Structural Engineer in the State of 
California and shall demonstrate how vibration levels during 
demolition and construction will not exceed 0.25 in/sec PPV 
at the adjacent structurally sensitive building (c. 1908) 
directly north of the project site, subject to all standards and 
best management practice, in accordance with industry-
accepted standard methods. The Construction Vibration 
The Construction 
Vibration 
Monitoring Plan 
shall be submitted 
prior to issuance of 
any demolition, 
grading or building 
permits, whichever 
occurs first.
The Plan shall be 
implemented prior 
to, during, and after 
vibration-
generating 
Project Appl
Project Cont
Professional
Structural En

--- page 85 ---
31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program
Page 15
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
31-57 SOUTH B STREET MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA-2022-089)
Mitigation
Timeframe for 
Implementation
Responsibi
Implemen
Monitoring Plan shall be submitted to the Building and 
Planning Division subject to satisfaction of the Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to issuance 
of any demolition, grading or building permits, whichever 
occurs first, and shall incorporate the following measures:

A list of all heavy construction equipment to be used for this 
project known to produce high vibration levels (e.g., tracked 
vehicles, vibratory compaction, jackhammers, hoe rams, 
clam shovel drop, and vibratory roller, etc.) shall be 
submitted to the City by the contractor as well as a list of 
smaller equipment (less than 18,000 pounds) to be used 
near the north property lines.  

Smaller equipment (less than 18,000 pounds) shall be used 
near the property lines adjacent to the building to the north 
and structurally sensitive buildings to the west to minimize 
vibration levels. For example, a smaller vibratory roller 
similar to a Caterpillar model CP433E vibratory compactor 
could be used when compacting materials within 25 feet of 
the adjacent structurally sensitive building (c. 1908) to the 
north. The smaller equipment intended to implement this 
requirement shall be individually identified among the list of 
equipment required under the above condition as the 
subset of equipment allowed for use at the property lines.
demolition and 
construction 
activities.

--- page 86 ---
31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program
Page 16
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
31-57 SOUTH B STREET MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA-2022-089)
Mitigation
Timeframe for 
Implementation
Responsibi
Implemen

Avoid dropping heavy equipment and using vibratory rollers 
within 25 feet of sensitive structures to the north. Use 
alternative methods for breaking up existing pavement, such 
as a pavement grinder, instead of dropping heavy objects, 
within 25 feet of the adjacent north building and the 
structurally sensitive buildings to the west. Select demolition 
methods that do not involve large impact tools such as hoe-
rams within 25 feet of the shared property line with 
structurally sensitive building to the north. Portable 
jackhammers, saws, or grinders shall be used to minimize 
impacts to the ground.
Additionally, the construction vibration monitoring plan shall 
include, but not be limited to, the following measures to address 
any potential cosmetic damage:

A description of measurement methods, equipment 
used, calibration certificates, and graphics as required to 
clearly identify vibration-monitoring locations.

A list of all construction equipment to be used and the 
anticipated time of duration shall be submitted by the 
contractor.

Document conditions at all structures located within 25 
feet of the construction site, where access is granted, 
prior to, during, and after vibration-generating

--- page 87 ---
31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program
Page 17
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
31-57 SOUTH B STREET MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA-2022-089)
Mitigation
Timeframe for 
Implementation
Responsibi
Implemen
construction activities. Perform a photo survey, 
elevation survey, and crack monitoring survey prior to 
any construction activity, at the end of each phase of 
construction (demolition, site preparation, 
grading/excavation, trenching, building construction, 
and paving), and after project completion, and shall 
include internal and external crack monitoring in 
structures, settlement, and distress, and shall 
document the condition of foundations, walls, and 
other structural elements in the interior and exterior 
of said structures. Where the crack survey identifies 
damage to adjacent buildings, the applicant shall be 
responsible for any repairs.

A plan to identify structures where and when monitoring 
would be conducted. If vibration levels exceed the limits, 
suspend construction and implement contingency 
measures to either lower vibration levels or secure the 
affected structures.

The applicant or their designated contractor shall 
identify a “disturbance coordinator” responsible for 
registering and investigating claims of excessive 
vibration. The disturbance coordinator shall determine 
the cause of the complaint and shall require that 
measures be implemented to reduce the vibration 
impact. The applicant or their designated contractor 
shall conspicuously post a telephone number for the

--- page 88 ---
31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program
Page 18
MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
31-57 SOUTH B STREET MIXED-USE PROJECT (PA-2022-089)
Mitigation
Timeframe for 
Implementation
Responsibi
Implemen
disturbance coordinator at the construction site and 
include it in the notice sent to neighbors regarding the 
construction schedule.

A completed monitoring report and findings of the crack 
surveys and any repairs done shall be made available to 
the Building and Planning Division prior to final building 
inspection for the demolition and start of superstructure 
construction; and final occupancy.
Prior to final 
building inspection 
and final occupancy
Project Appl
Project Cont
Professional
Structural En
SOURCE:  City of San Mateo. 31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project Initial Study. June 2024.

--- page 89 ---
\
‘\N

7/12/2024, 11:03:09 AM
L_ Tax Parcels

Street Labels

Zoning Districts

== C1 - Neighborhood Commerical

C1 - Neighborhood Commerical

CBD - Centeral Business

XEA2IRS

| CBD - Centeral Business
[5 cBD/S - CBD - Centeral Business Support

|
| re

R2 -

R

ow

Executive Offices
Executive Offices

Two Family Dwellings

- Mutli-Family Dwellings (Med. Density)
R4 -

Mutli-Family Dwellings (High Density)

1:2,750
100 200 400 ft
-—-—_+—__ +--+ —<§_]
30 60 120 m


--- page 90 ---
~

eRe, 31v0 30881

OV

‘3ENNON 133HS

L3SHS Y3A09

‘SVN 1334S.

NOILONYLSNOD
4uO4 LON

‘awas
soya ‘AB OBHORHO
sony ‘8 NEO
on ziococe ‘SIN L95POME
en 308

202240 “WhO Hod 13S NOISSPWIO9 ONIN IS
reoaons0 YH WLLINENSY NOLWONe¥ ONAN IS
(# WLIMENSaH NOLYOMdav ONINNTS
24 WLUMENS2d NOLYOF dav ONININVIS
“wLINEn S24 NOLVONe¥ ONIN
NOuWOr de NNN

WotLaRios30 0

snotsinae

WO LAS NOISSINNOO ONIN nest

LObP6 VO ‘OSLVW NYS
LASYLS 8°S 1S

a8 1S

‘Se2800Y' BMY L95POME

LSAAYVH

NON
NON

o9
NON
NON

NON

SRNSOTONA TOINVHOSN 40 dOL OL LHOISH W1OL 69

VY

BLV 1d 40 dOL O1.6415
(PL S8NDId NY Id VaBY NMONMOG) 0-89

VY oe he

(ooz'vorzz Owns) (vs 96°2) 48'601'LP 104
8 YOOTS Hy

OOS GuE

40013 ONZ
OOS IST

aS ei'¢ IS 8 $8) | ONITING

“4°08 L99'b
oe

“1g 08 Ja8'es fe

309 WI NMOINMOG

(a90) 1orsisia ssaNisne We1N3O
cocarreo-ve0

s0rbs vo ‘OaLvN NYS
ISRULS 9°S 15 Lh PP SE IE

‘GIOINONE NOVELS YI
‘o2uINDBE NOVELS UVaY
‘QA0IAONd Novela 3018
‘O38/NOSY HOVELIS 30IS
(as0IAOul Novas INOMS

‘32ND HOVELES INOW

azano¥e sHOH ONIN
-LHOISH ONICUNG FTEWMOTIV $

‘yu NO BSYBUONI LIN

(o0zvo'xe 9018)
'WaMY ONIN G350d0%E

\va4Y ONIING SSOYS ONUSIKS
‘wasy ONITING TTaMOTY
(Qiv2) Oa VARY HOOT
(44°08) 3218 107

WAXY NY Td NMOINMOA 6902
“LORLSIO ONINOZ ONLSIXS

MBEHNN T20WVd SYOSSESSY

“193P Od JO SSHHAGY

suis 103°0ud

SONINSdO
(BIJIANOI 4OS OY OL SITE

"SLON

ootsist

(oro van W/

\fros ‘€0v 335) (2'905 31EVL OBO) 35 000.25
,
iv oss

(SCUVONVIS CF VasN 133 OD 3A,

-SLNWOZU OMLVE 40 mrEVL Hoszov aa) /
(log ‘cos Savi 80) 8

(UNVAINWLSRITIVLaR “301410 WHBNIO) ¥ W'S

sOvovs 18314
JOvOWs HINOS

Bavov4 sva

SQVOVS HLUON 40 SSGNIVIIR

'SOVOV4 HLNON 4O NOLOd

ayy eNnaina HevMoTly

S3INOLS 40 YIBNINN G3S0dOud
aRIOLS 4O WaeHINN STevMOTIV
IHOIAH GaSOd0d
LHOIH SevMOTIY

Oa¥S INAS

AL NOLONALSNOD
'3dAL AONVAND9O
'JLIS NO SONICTING 40 H3GWNN

G3NSS! 3YIM SINWINO 3HL SHA SHL
Ly 193443 NI SLNAWONAAY ANY SINAN 1adNS NANTON 'SAO8W 0318/7 SNOLLYINDSM
NY $309 HL 40 SLNSWSMINOSH 3HL G330xa NO 133 TIVHS YHOM SHL +
“L937 Oud 3HL BSAC NOLLOIOSIAN? ONIAVH S3IONIOY Ad

3009 SCRVONVIS GIONSYSSTY VINYOSNVD = 2b LIVE +
(3009 NaayoT9) 3609 SCAVANYIS ONIGTING NAAWO VINYOSMVO bh Awd +
3000 tld VINHOSIT¥D~ 6 Léa +

3009 ONIMTING WARIOLSIH VINNOSIWD -8 Lave +

(G38 LON LNVOVA- 2 13d +

Ee eM Meme
[st ve anos eu 2609 Seuvans Oana VLD 20

$3000 S18VolIddv

ve ‘3qN0¥s WLOL
on IM SNOT GION
9 WH3L LHOHS a3OINOe

ub ‘OsHNOB WLOL

‘ONDE SDE
90e-2v Had 0 ‘aaainoud
7 smsss 92) 391440

STWVIS ob ‘000! V7 mouse aus9
(oor'ye'zz OVS) GSYINOSY

(za) 3NOZ ONDA OLIN ald 'NOZ ONDA

‘SLNAMESAOWINI LNYNGL WASH 40 LuV SY GEOIAOUd 3A OL SBOVES TLR ONIALES CRUX
"1EISS300¥ SY GBOIAOMA 24Y 408 SALLMOYS LNYaNOOO"FTONIS SY GRCINOUE 3A SHOCRLS RE
"SIVW3s 341 dos OB0INON4 3B OL 13S0TO BALWHONOO3S W 34ITOSH LON TS TWNRIN SHL O3TWISHI I BO

[Neil S$31 LON 38 THHS S27¥MI24 HOd 8138070 HEL¥IN G3MIMOH 40 YSBNNN TWIOL SHL £-072

800) W'STUNVOMENN “3
‘Bosh 8500 8
3800 WKTENESSY._"¥

SSHOLOV4 OVO LNVlN000
Nola0xa v 31@V1 040 96 (*3OVUOUS GN SHOOY ALMILN"BANSOTONS

¥MIvLS 'SMOOKLSIE”'SAWITIVH) SYBBYABOSSZDQW S871 SOWA TIBVGN SAY NHOHS SYBMY 1534 33¥NOS
\P/_ Verio ewes swercaroy

we

.

z
+

‘SALON

2
Nano) hrossval VY’ | anowo

“INVNAL LNVUNVLS3e BUNUN V HO NOLLEIOXS TWINSLOd V HLIM SWSUSAS
NO Nal 01.031 934X3 OSTY SI ONIGTINA FHI. "3009 ONITTING NAAWO VINHOSIWO HIIAM 3ONYMIdNOD

NOLLWWHYOSNI TWYSNS9

woman

“Fin Ni 3 THM ONY "13AST C109 G3FT EOS INSHNd THM NOILIMALSNOD ONITING MSN

“SLN3INSAONA AVN-4O-LHOI OFIGNd ONY "VZV Id IVL3Y 83NYOO ¥ 'ONcVOSONY] 3OVEMSL
ANY 73A3-INNO¥S SNIGMONI SINSINSAOMHMlALIS-430 ONY “NO SAGMONI 193POMal SIMI "V9 ‘05 L¥V.
NYS 40 3HOD NMOLNMOG 3HL NI 3ANSAY 1S1 NV LASRILs @°S 40 NOLOSSUALN SHL IV 4S 061’
XTEIVINIXORddY 4O ONION 3010 UIANLL SSW ANOLS-F MN V UOJ SI SONIMVEG 40 13S SIM

NOLL dldOS3d LO5rOud

BLVIOOSSV "8S NVNASY VNVONN

Ones pessi Hel
20106 VO 'OOSIONVE! NYS
BANBAV 3LVO N3C709 #F

‘SU33NIONS Bd

‘SNENTTE-WORTOTTA WONVHOSN

WdlONIed - SHONYE STTUVHD

o90e'vee'00s He
60216 HO 'ONVUOd
SANSAW HL8E MN SEL
30v1d

BavosanvT

“WeIONIM~ NOSHSANY AGOD

‘S833NION3NDISSO COOMYSHS

(002 SINS '13381LS VEVIO VENVS "3 OE

AvdlONRld = HN Jr

s0s,"ber'ste He
0106 Vo 'OOSIONVAlE NYS
00sh SLING Laas NIVW set
‘SUBANIONS 190
SVENIOMEIS

“TWalONId- STOHOIN SSM

‘ong "L2Z'sbb Ha
4198 vO '3SOr NVS

SMORIIINI @ SUNLOALHOMY ANNA
‘TOSLTHOUV

MANLY¥d- TTNNODO NOLSSYE

‘apL-99r'01s He
z1976 vo ‘QNVINVO

0p! SLINS "INAV ANVES OB
‘O77 "SSAINGA 3LI730 LNNOG WSLO
‘BaNMO

Wal LOSfOud

WOO¥ NOUSETIOO HSL WOwAMNOS] OTe

(1S 7M10L EHS

‘INO TEAST NVI ALIS TIVEBAO| FO

"EAR GNC SOMRECRE SAISON] 07
“BA3T GNNOHD = SONRECNAH 3¥OSONA| OOP

Hse

‘SWISONOUVORRI| —_ 99=7

‘S150 NOUWOREA

‘SOVeREL 2 THIET NV NOLIVO REA

‘YOOTH GNTOR - NYT NOLOREA
‘3007 ANNOHD -Nvid ONLY

‘SORREL Y GAR ~ NVISONIINYIS ¥ 3e¥OSONNT|

"SOVRREIL CATT NVJONUINVT 8 3c¥OSCNYT|
YAMA ZHAST= Nd ONILNVIA 9 3e¥OSONV]

‘YOO GNIOYD - NY SeOSONYT

WO ONLNYTs =|
“Lida 1ST20RL|
{1¥0d54 ISSO

TWO

NVI SNOUVTOTWO 3DVeS NBO)

3e¥OS0V1
‘SiSATANY SNL 149N09|

‘AGTUS AMIOWAO NIVUM NOLS 14S0NOO|

[NV INNA WNYNT 2 LYMPTHOLS 3118430 1430NCO]
NV i ANE)PSDVNW ABLVIANOAS

“ans aneMIOOw|

SIC AIMIRISS=O04|
SIMI ALNIBISS200¥|
‘SNOIL938 OWING)

(ONY Stvid C303 'SNOLLD3S 'SNOLLdO LNOB-ERLOIS|

‘GVOE TRISLVM
‘SNOLAETS|

SNOUWASS YORIXS|

NY" 4008
‘vid wooTa LENO!
Nie 3001s Oa

Tia woos oNO03S|

Yd BOOT ISU
ivi aus 3802024
‘Nv LIS SNS)

SNVTe Va BOOT
NV VaR 200
‘SIONS WOCVHS|

woos

LvLi-vez or ‘0008-r6z 207
xe ‘saN10,

1196 ewe
sop ues si0u=4,
oz ans, ceurmaaitory

ag eve19 entes 3 OF ros

NWI

‘SIONS WOCVHS|

‘Sa}ONLS WOGVHS|
-D@INGD OOOHOEHONS|

'SONEIONSY

‘SNV1d 3000 9OOTH HINO ONY CHIH

‘SONISON34
‘SONISON33

'SNYTe 3000 HOOT GNOOSS ONY ISU

15348 2209]
wan LDELHONY

Corer)

‘PENOISSINENSY ONIN
‘BUNOISSIVENS ONIN
‘Ze NOISSINENS ONIN
1 NOISSINENS3Y ONIN)

NOlLvoFie SNe

SN ESS ver

‘eze2iue) Ne Hos 158 NOISSIANOD OMNI)

“AWN SONERSISN WO ANGST W
4138 SH. 30 anve Sv Gans
"EH SOTHNES|

X30NI L3SHS

AVN ALINIOIA

SNOILLVINOTWO ONIMYVd

LOvv6 VO ‘OSLVW NVS

LAAYLs dS ZS

qd 81st

'dO4 NOISSINENS ONINNV1d

SNOILVINO WO SYNLXI4 ONIGNNTd



--- page 91 ---
~

N
. owt 40 30
sro s8300¥- NouManaie waeg \ Vv
\ ‘ALIOWeIvO C3MINOTY ONY HLAIM WNHININ 4O NOLLNRLSIC HOS $°5001 NOILO3S 280 S133M HLM SS3403 *t
Non ;03,NNOWI g38S3034- LaNIEYO NSHSIONULG JE i i wi 8 POE = 10 ZESOOL QNY JS001 NOLLD2S 249 NO O2S¥OSHLOUASSINOI Z
wserunw s23Hs oad {S00 NOLLO3S 38 Z202 NO G3SVB RAV STAVI SIL NI SHOUWINONO _*L
'S210N
Joe
30¥NOI6 LNVTIAND YOW HL LD BDNVRLAE TISSHDO¥ ca) oe Zr aE z 7 mom ma
| wi 6 He Doone ra
sai suowwy ra es _. on sss, o| > | en Tanous | Gunes | esanow | Guanows | oscnoua | canoe
HLA NOIS IK GBLENIMATI. 2S 2e Be Be se [aseis a sOveREI| Z0=UOLOWS S¥O=WOLOvs
SNV1d 3000 YOOT4 ! set a woos verona Hla uvis iol | WQMSS3493-WIOL | SIUJOW3ERON-WIOL avoTANVanD00| _TaIST
CNOOAS CNV LSul4 (szxvn) 938 s936vaN 01 20NHUSIO ONY 31ND TaN ——_-- o see @ Wooulsaa ns
30130 U3OVEE GVO ONOULOTTS @ bor 39 0886 8 30330)
348 (cath as ono tad f sie a al toe NOILVINO TWO HLGIM LIX
‘suo0a cava os caunogy g2LMU-uVIVGVH OnWva bal 1334 06 XV) SNOW SONVISID TSWANA, een D Ess a Fs] EEO ree Jr Serr evens
o sth 8 oe]
3000 22LvAHNON Hod aaRINORE BIVVCAVH ON bal teevonre WOORISE
ic: NONWIOD eee ee ee ee a joo Jases_ | a Tass3zI0V | oft z z “WHOM 30 3d098 LL SYNE
S30WS Sh HY HOHE NYAL SSS LON SHBLLA WAKO 990 _ L loo use | Bass200y ‘Weil =8:S8aNsre
|NILSVALNOD HUL8X- 2-8 NIM 38 OL NOIS GOT LNVANIDOO a WOOULSaE somy oasn ooo NESS
a Ye
. * WoULYInOMD ‘SAAT SHEUYABOSEBOOV SST S3OVGS TEYSN SHONIOM NMOHS 3O¥LO03 UVTOS VERY °C
sonvisia now ‘oN favor awanoco] WOLSvsaWOT [Uva [xowWendoo| aa UNSW Sea aot ANNO
Ps | fe) 4 1o N (vw 3130239) aunow uxa, somvors Tuo¥L- [as a sonvasia OOM HMA ee — SU Mw aN _e e009 040802 ML IE SININATORY YS
“ 2) -arpa Kcreap UD o}o o}o vito NoUDas 989 Noan GESVE I NOLANESS XS ANON NL EL
‘(9 6WhL W130 338) .LKa, “SOWNDIS TULOVL- [3 ¥ auNOw SS3HD3 40 Hid mtr tte > 9 / eo "NOLLDIGSIUAE TWHSHYIY 3el4 1¥DO"1 HII SS300¥ ONY SINANGUINOZ "
‘SOWNOIS 3LNOY LIKI - joe jaw 8 ine i] 3OWNOIS ALYNOHOOS "3009 SHI VINYOAMVO 6102 '603 NOILO3S Had INSIMI¥d30 3H AB JISISSAIOW ONY
a co V/s us 3 HS -ZoWNoIS G3 OHV AB O3AINS 20 WHS SINAGTS TOKLNOO HO NOSIS WEHLO HO SANVK ONY SOSH
wis 582009 10 1M OB4INORY z [ocr as 160 a aR XETDNS SITSLSAS SMNOUIONOOY 80d STORANDD OHINYANOD SNOOW NW ANSHANOS NOUOBLONS TASTY Zh
— ca ste a FeTod [SW FUMUNJ OMEN 3UNOMS 3901 3OFNO! SSIUO3 TUDWLBORAIN TY 2
fo vez ic soul “Taal “SaVig MVAS GB0MVINS OL NBA 90 GNY BZN: NOLLZAS
“erm 180390340 ocu cauveanon-2 (uo ss240a 40 Nod LY SoTVO HLOMN 3358) = a tem ‘20 6a) $3108 ZO ROIS FLOVLOL WEAR “INGNSLNOSH 3009 Wad JOWNOS LD EUV. TEABAVIS SONU SL
vou “AB NO ‘MIVLS ONY ONINSO LIX HOd SHLOIW'SVOT SSIHOI { Xedo W WH . ol. z| «€ "SONVULNS LNOMS LY ALIIBISS390¥ 40 TOBNAS SONNE “PL
X ca ie see W434) "3OVNSIS HOA C0811 OBO HIN 1MOD TIVES JOWNOIS Ch
aaticenez "NNN 193708 a cr Ls 70 ir ar ‘ovo $159: VE ONLVA HIM Sal SNBSHT'SW1S3K3C OMONVIS SAIN CHLNTON 3 OL SHES ONS
(G2.LVOION| SUSHI) IVS YO ONINAEO iz. ca Et 30dIN| Mls 16°90 TEV ONY 906 NOILOAS:
pm . Hugin 2038 20 BI Hu ATANOO TVS SUSHSINONNG 3S “VASE Fs BAL ADGLOTIO SY BONIOMS SEH SIN
vn ayes Wooy caivaunod 1 ; ce ester woman nee 41yO01 NVa¥O Wd 28 00 ‘SINT 93 TWNCIUCNINS3IIL 36 1534 00, ONY WER LOTO8d SHU NL NOLYOOY
IVLS GN ONNEO 1D YO SHIGUN'SOVOTSSRO save azavo%e | {NY NOH: 1382530 NMADXYH Y aLVSOT MOM WO 34008 $9 Hod SNOONADS ts NOAM. SONS ih
G3AN3$ G¥O1990 pe fst jaSa0i4 4980) ‘NON ‘IV 0b0b NOWO3S O89 U3d .ZE NVHL SS31SS37 LON HLOIM LYST 3AVH TIVHS SHOOd TY “OL
?- L008 [38 oF vr "S3dAL SUVINUWVH ONY 3215 'SONLLVY S3dAL SIVA ONY #000 YO J1NG3HIS YOON OL ¥343H 6
Wz. 00 [ss zie WOH aid 38 17900) STAVL 980 NOdN G3S¥E SI SNS C3HINDIY 4O NABNN FHLB
(CBLVENON VBEN IL avoT Aanvat990 CBLWINTTYS a Joa ssw SaLLMvOv4| 4 8 "9001 NOUS 9€9 NOdN GESV"SISINBNOANOO INS ONY HLM SSHHO3
i Toow of at az, | el ‘GVO INvaN}000 xz0= ‘SOLO¥A HIGIN BIYS~
fs ae ee | G¥O1 ANYdNDDO X S10 = HOLOWS HLOIM SNINSdO LX3~
‘S3¢AL NOUILRN 20s SNE WOOT BS NOWIRLNA OBIVEUAOH-2 eam ao | | i ale a1¥ WNOLADG 9
sung co2i40°0\ —e fT % wWoOuis3e aan 1 ONY FS NOLES 980 Noun #ISVE SIGHS OW SONNEUO OA SNOLVTAOWOHLOMNSSROR
Rav noe —e} A loos su | a 8153009 ram aaa} 2Nouina BY 989 KONWANGO 8 HOU Loe GAY KOKWANGDO WHOd UR SONYA TRARAL ANNOY *F
S4ALNOUILLYd UO SNYTE HOO 33S NOLL CALE} woiovs ovo1 ae y "Y@NOWAIOXa £2001 NOUOIS 980) 39Vas
Thoth favor unvaro00]_wOLOvsavOY [sya [xoNvengoo| aA ‘NaN 3H 20 Sung 1S3H 4¥4 SHU NOs ZONVASIO LY TNOTNO 3KL AN 1SV3T LV OVTe SHV SUNG GRANDS
3d AL AONYN'D00- += fouedino59| (SUNOH) SLNIW313 ONIGTING YO SLNIMIYINDIY ONLLVY JONVISISTU-TULS ‘THHO01 STBV1 989 Yad GALWINDTVO SHIM SZOVES LNVNAL IHL YO SBONVANIIO FHL = TZ
RAL NOULLYNE YO! SHYT YOOTE IEE NOUV NEN « . e109 3009 eA. noos | 3010. per - arp ong us p29 ‘OL OBMHOY 36 TVS SANANENOE 940 Ghz TW ATNO SLOVO 38 OTROS 3,
tos nev. Non‘Awo 13848 SL G1 14035 sv NY MOM 40 24008 $0 SHL HOARY SALON ASHCNY SSLON LENS

QN3931 NOLLVIND WO GVOT LNVdNDDO SLNAWSYINOAY ONILVY SALON L33HS

= mira
@ 1AA351 NW1d 3009 ® | T3A31 NW1d 3009

[2Te
8 [90
OO

@
TENS

|
ic

eee

@ ‘ONINadO,

>

202240 “WhO Hod 13S NOISSPWIO9 ONIN IS
‘PE TWLUNENSSR NOLYONde¥ ONINNTS
(# WLIMENSaH NOLYOMdav ONINNTS
24 WLUMENS2d NOLYOF dav ONININVIS
“wLINEn S24 NOLVONe¥ ONIN
NOuWOr de NNN

WotLaRios30 0

snotsinae

epee, 31¥0 30881 !

WO LAS NOISSINNOO ONINNYT nest i

LObr6 VO ‘OSLVW NYS H
LASULS 8°S 1S

Nos, Fi] onc

1 EWEE(O} /

ee
N

TE Z

ime) ee 7 ies)

%, | ‘ogi “
@

oe

F
2 aN
ei

3 a 7

a8 SL ae

‘Se2800Y' BWW L95POME

Vt

JS By

DOE/
@

Nv

i 9NINSdO

LSAAYVH

I p | pty
al ' 31868300

7r Tt
is

areca

re
OOUISS

Te
4S els

Shih
aa |} --©
ERIEEEN i}

E}

ths? og

iis ONINSdO.

we
1

th
Welote os sit ee
Pace oarriaretre rar aeetae
Giieenos
ROC atcteeates tates

woos

LvLi-vez or ‘0008-P6z 207
xe ‘0010,

1196 ewe
sor ues, s10ven4,
oz ans, ceurmaaitory

ag e119 enles 3 OF nares

\ TOOE TOO, TaN '

NWVJ anelss30ov ‘worlosTs sana
O) © © oO © ® ® © oO ©


--- page 92 ---
(Gu xwn) 084 ussvan 01 SONYASIa CY 3LNOW TaN ———_--

. Inn st 40 Z0NV
¢ OV srjoras8200¥- NOLS HSIN \
\ ‘Aaldwe¥9 C-RHnNOzH ANY HLCM NNN 40 NOLIN SII H+ 5 SCOH NOMLD3S O80 SLSR LOMA SS=HOR “E
Non "eaLNnoWt gss3038-L3NEWO YSHSINONILS Jes 1 & ESO Gy | €'8004 NOLES 990 NO G3S¥9 SHIGUASSEHOR 7
wsennn is3Hs » -garonvanooo aaLvuvaas 0, NUDES 080 8.0NOGESVE Bw STV SL ISNOLVTIOND
XN Ue Od GEMINDTY ONLLVY OL GAGIAONd 38 THM $13N3T N33ML3S SHOOT LON
‘BOWNOIS LNVITANOO VOY HLM LIK3/ 3ONVALNG TIEISS300¥ ~a= cS) VY 7 a Ta z z DOOR yan
(8 AMOLS LS3HOIH) AMOLS HI =S3ROLS y:31aVMOTIV  -8 ae oA Fe z z SoOuT a
inmous (W AMOLS 183HS OLS LS} <S3IMOLS €:318WMOTIV = (W
S85HA) SOBA TYNOLLIEHIO ss (G-V AMOLS LS3HOIH) AUOLS 1S} <S3INOLSE TTaVMOTIV “EY caamoud | Gzunoss | g3qnoue | asunosé | czavud | RuNOR
Sg LIMA NOIS IK LYNIMUNTTE 2S 2e Be Be 20=WOl¥s sV0=¥OLDW4
NVId 3009 YOO14 visaniois WoL — | ~warunas wai | wwamssayea Wi0l | sina sowsennvwi0l |ovoumnsnooo| van

HLYNOs GNV GYIHL sna uso owo ONOWLONE @

csutmonnarovsamso ite Le eceeeececeeeeeeee Ye Yeusovvsaros enero NOLLWINDTVO HIGIM LIXa

WN EaS ‘58000 C&LY2 Yo! CBRINO=N GELYA AWOL ond oy
a 38 004
‘4000 GaL ANON Hod aRMINOSH RAWHaMYH ON taal eersoce zu is scion [ov Sorel] =0¢>
‘980 #34 153300} xem “TAL SSEBO 20 HL NONTION 0 con Sor a oOwis3 seo9si aun.
‘2,00 40 SS3¥0QV ch NOOY 40 38 SIYOIGN! TS NOIS : cor mag ? Rea 40014 HL >idont 40 3409811 34nund
“SHOWS 4 GNY HEI. NYHL SSS LON S¥BLIA Wile¥9 900 _ OO dae $34, oN G2NNIBL30 38 OL S3NOZ AON¥eNOOO OEKN SEU BH HOA SNOUNENERS ADNIOOD GBMNORUTIY “12
USYALNGD HLL XNA 01 NOIS YO LNYNODO a a [con ssaet £ 301420 Sa'SSaNSTe -
NOILONYLSNOD a + coe ast a Es] ‘HOOT ANZ ou = eV'2¥ ATANBSSY =
_ nOOuISE BOOTS ISL Nouwinowto Shviiv Svs A80S53O0¥ 5S3) $39¥aS JTeFSN SEONIOM NNVOHS 39¥L003 3H¥NDS VSB “=
b[@) 4 LON i evi NAO) Now LN, Somers suoW~ [EE @ sonvisia MOSMAN lc Lasse a Nous 2p Gv 049 eel #34 SINANRAMOSU
“ 4 | asso =B 300 949 ite Hoan 035¥ NOUYINOTWO BML NODKISEH te
— 1 100s NouLo3s 980 NON O3S¥8 St NOLIVESS UNG GRUNDY SLL
(v96vss was 338) 40a, ‘somes susovA- [3 ¥ ainoy ss349340 Hiv A co see ‘ 3181852009 ISAS NOUYOINNNNOD NEYVZOIOR ADGOAENS ACOs
OWNS BUNOE LN @ YOOTSHLP "NOUSIOSTINWHSBMIY 34 ¥007 HII $S300¥ GNY SINSNSRINOS
‘GHOTEWWaOOO]_LOLOYA CVO. [GE] aN [AOWWaNODO] SA 30 /N6NS BLVNCNOOD F909 Ses MNYOMTYO 1 BIS NOLLDBS 8c NTUANIO 34s AB STEISSOOV ON
Pie -arpx9g fuera ore % {ESDARUES sIVRLS/s ONNCLIGNOS 1 HOs STOMINOO ONNVINOD SOG OVW INBAAINGNOL-DBLOMS SMSTIY LL
@¥ YOOTS ISL "BSvid BUNUN ONG ANC 38001 ZOVNOISSESO3 TUDVLAORALMTY BL
epg 'n803903H0 woow cava ynon-2 usw ssz403 40 sNod LY sowvD HG 10 338) “Siig uv 03049 NS OL 43.38 {#vOS1 NY BZN, NOUZIS
sour 18 NGO IVIS GWY SNH 1S Od SHIGINISOVOT SSO , TWO TE VRS ‘280 6102) SS10N 30¥NOKS 3ILO¥L.OL W2434 “ING/CRINO:4 3000 Has JOWNIS LNA TULOWL TEMES 200s
s ss ab "SONMRINS INO&S LV AUFTAESS90¥ 40 108NAS 30MO Ps
cazsence ‘ese 19570M a is seis w Ea SBVNEAS HOICO-G. 98D HIM TAAOO TESTO MNOIS Th
(ceri 2H vis 20 94Na0 os i 38909 o Sova saMolsy a Auowevo S15 0101 YE NIU HUMSeNSNBSAIT F806 STEW CNY B06 NOLLOAS
IVS ONY ONNBdO 1X3 HOS SHLGLW/SOVOT SSIUO3 Hugs asainoud o a Fa 4 HOOHISSA lS CV ‘AN NOS 13355240 NAVY 3 ub
‘a3)¥38 a¥O1 900 2 o s ca = sue ‘NON 'T'V0}0 NOLLO3S 989 B34 ZE NVELL SS31 SSI LON HLOIM EWATO AAWH TIVHS SYOOG TY “DL
+ See Be ¢ aa TWIST(W POs STV 08 Waa) GSVENON VaRV LNOHIIMT SSTUOLS TTGVMOTIV een TS eC eo eer TEESE Te
(CBLYENON VERVE avo onvanooo oaLvInaT¥9 0 ce Hse # om] {900 NOUS 989 NON OBSYASISINNOSNOD ING GW HLOSSIO3
OOULS3H (@sv3¢ONI LHOISH LNOHLIN) 4S 0008 -@ GWOLNWETOOOXCD BOLL HLON BS”
‘S3dAL NOLILLVe HOS SNVId YOOTS 33S ‘NOLL CALVY UNGH-z oo 1 loos 4898 g sraiss203V| (3SV3YONILHOISH LNOHLIM) 4S 00S: G¥OT ANWaN9: = HOLESHLAM ON eg
‘SLN3 0038 40°0N —my oOwLS3y V (SZ 3SVSYONI LHOH) JS. 0056 -f¥ e'w0i CNY F300, NOUD3S 980 Noch E3SVA SI SUIS CNY SONNSJO YO SNOLVINOWOMLOMSSROS — =
yaa ogy —e] 4 oo. 28 8 £ 718882099) 0 318¥L 989 KINYAOOO a Os 08 QNY KONYAIOIO WHOS 08281 SONHISO TBAVAL LINO
34AL NOME HO SNYIENOOTS 338 NOMURA GRINS YNOH ecm woisovr WONT DEO TST “NOUcHo3G F100 NOULD3S 94D) 'SOWAS
sant xowvaroo0 ——e ‘ceoTunvanooo] ¥OIDWa NOT [GS] WRRW [AONVANOOO] —_—_ SAWN |NN BHL 0 SuNg AS3H.6V4 3H NOR ZONVLSIOGBLYMNOTWO 3HL 1 ISYET LV O3OVTe 3H SING ORINOSH
v1 no9e 3009 , 0D, AVL 990 2d GALVIN TWO 38M, SVS ANN 3HL YO SHONYENIGO FHL Z
-24AL NOULLAWd YO SNYIE YOOTE AES NOLAN MBN : 0 AL NOY ——ef SOHO. ser - pata foun ils a909 SHION¥dNODO GALVYYEIS ‘C3UITINIAS ‘NOLLONULSNOD all HAL “OL cM 38 TVS SININRIMOSE O89 102 TWA NO SLMOTHEN 38 M0138 SNM SL
Non ‘AINO 13348 SL 01 HOSS SY NY HOW 40 3008 $9 SHI HO SHY SION ASH ONYSSION ISHS

QN3931 NOLLVIND WO GVOT LNVdNDDO {980 YAdRNOILVINIWO VAY ONIGTIING SALON L33HS

y heat

€ 13A31 NV1d 3009

@) tri =aih
¥ TAAS1 NVId 3009

ITE
| 48 J9z
OOK

@
. / S ZEWIS

‘32 | 8

an

ars

Tavis, \

202240 “WhO Hod 13S NOISSPWIO9 ONIN IS ERTENET
‘PE TWLUNENSSR NOLYONde¥ ONINNTS
(# WLIMENSaH NOLYOMdav ONINNTS
24 WLUMENS2d NOLYOF dav ONININVIS

tsa voncce sures / feu] o
‘uevraumirs ;

WotLaRios30 a ,
snotsinae

epee, 31¥0 30881

WO LAS NOISSINNOO ONINNYT nest

LObP6 VO ‘OSLVW NYS
LASYLS €°S 1S

' '
1 JS 919
r = | | stb
¥
g 9 IS} j y ERYETEN
24009 SYN LO3FOM | i
1
t
LSAAYVH ma
1
/
a 74 ca © @
417]! ' 1 ES]
AS 6S
‘ana 7 (oor 1 +
“ gq .
ie —/ ~ HOOEISHY | ' '
EE Fasss0o¥ NARS 1 Tr praiss300¥ ' '
\ 38 66 ‘ s \ a E \
\ El 4 ‘ El t Tt
\ El joouss ae x uivis _ ONINSGO a 1 ' ‘| a, Aes ers & 1 '
) ‘ Court , a RRS x !
‘ : , El Z leeeeaasieen inne nstatens
| y i Macaca tens sun Nateeces
of OORISE ; ho OoEISE fesesenti casa is toocaceee
—_ YW eseleatdctiasicemsesee \
; ; N was
‘ ' a Te '
s10ven4, 1 i . ES “AS 8EZ
ove ains amositny \ \ con oor
“ys wr owns 3 08 nm \ N @ a
TT N NOOBISSY ' SS (OOUIST Tavis. !
~ a1alss309V ‘a1eiss3oov

NWI @

OO) ® ©) ®



--- page 93 ---
v0V

‘3ENNON 133HS

SONIMSONSY

‘SVN 1334S.

NOILONYLSNOD
4uO4 LON

‘awas
soa ‘AB OBOBHO
sou ‘8 NINO
on ziococe ‘SENN L95POME

30s

202240 “WhO Hod 13S NOISSPWIO9 ONIN IS
‘PE TWLUNENSSR NOLYONde¥ ONINNTS
(# WLIMENSaH NOLYOMdav ONINNTS
24 WLUMENS2d NOLYOF dav ONININVIS
“wLINEn S24 NOLVONe¥ ONIN
NOuWOr de NNN

3 Nottans0s30 WwW

snotsinae

epee, 31¥0 30881

WO LAS NOISSINNOO ONINNYT nest

LObP6 VO ‘OSLVW NYS
LASYLS €°S 1S

a8 1S

‘Se2800V' BMY L95POME

LSAAYVH

Ya

woos
LvLi-vez or ‘0008-P6z 207
xe ‘0010,

1196 ewe
sor ues si0u=4,
oz ans, ceurmaaitory

ag e119 enles 3 OF nares

NWI

Y -snoido SONINMY GNV LNOYSSYOLS HOS }'eV LASHS J5S "GASW3T-3ud I NOILVYNDIANOD 3TGISSOd JO SAIdNVXA FHV SLNOYSIYOLS GNV SONINMY TIVL3Y ‘3LON

V4 1) NOS ON

Wy MAIA YSNYOO

VV


--- page 94 ---
~

G . OV \v7_“SNOILdO ONINMY ONY LNONJSHOLS HOS |'tW LGSHS 34S “CAS VAT Sud AI NOLLVYNSIANOO STEISSOd 40 S3TIdNVX4 FeV SLNONIIYOLS CNV SONINMY TIV.L3e -3.LON
“NOISAG TWNId V SO SALLVLNASAYdaY LON SP NV “LNALX3 ONY NOLLW9O1 TWILNALOd W ASLLNACI OL GALNALNI SI] G3LO3d3d LYY OMENd *09'E% NOLLOAS 3009 TWdlOINNW OALVW NVS OL LOAPENS LUV OITENd ‘ALON V

‘3ENNON 133HS

98 ON NOS ON,

FALLWNYALT LUV - NIVUL-1VW9 WOdd HOWOUddY NIVUL-1VO WOUS HOVONddY.
SONIMSGN3Y

SSNWN 1334S.

cas
soa9 ‘88 030340
sour 18 NGO
ca zsence ‘ese 19570
awvos

awsn (GF swos 0

SAILVNYS LT Lav - M3IA SAV LSb a) Ma3lA SAV LSI
2020 WhO Ade HOLAESNOKSINODONNVIS
‘LIENS NOUYON ecw ONIN?
A WLIINENSRA NOUYOMed ONE 6
2A WLUMENSIA NOLYON aR ONAN Z
TWLLWENSSH NOLMONAY ONIN |

Nouv de NNN

NoTaROSS0 ¥
svosinae
ERE, iva 50681

WO LAS NOISSINNOO ONIN nest

LObP6 VO ‘OSLVW NYS
LASYLS 8°S 1S

a8 1S

‘Se2800Y' BMY L95POME

LSAAYVH

NWI


--- page 95 ---
2erN 1334S Vv
“SNOILdO ONINMY ONY LNOYSSYOLS YOd |W LASHS 33S ‘CASW3T-3Yd JI NOLLVYNSDIANOD F18ISSOd JO SFIdWVX4 SHV SLNOYSFYOLS GNV SONINMY TIV.L4y “ALON

SONIMSONSY

SSNWN 1334S.

NOILONYLSNOD
4uO4 LON

OD + dvada_

(€) msn (7) awosov (|) 950"
/ MaIAISa (VS) HOVOUddY TIWISe SAW ISL \E/ NOLLVASTS AULNA 301440

WotLaRios30 c
snoIsinae
epee 31v0 30881

WO LAS NOISSINNOO ONINNYT nest

LObP6 VO ‘OSLVW NYS
LASYLS 8°S 1S

a8 1S

‘Se2800¥' BMY L95POME

LSAAYVH



--- page 96 ---
L0V

‘2ENNON 133HS

LXALNO9
CGOOHYOSHOISN

‘SVN 1334S.

NOILONYLSNOD
4uO4 LON

pen 30s

“WhOdide Hos 13S NOISSIWIO9 ONIN IS
NOUWON da ONIN
NOUVON de ONIN
NOWWOM de SAINT
“wLINEn S24 NOLVONe¥ ONIN
NOuWOr de NNN
WotLaRios30

ERG, 31v0 30881

WO LAS NOISSINNOO ONINNYT nest

LObP6 VO ‘OSLVW NYS
LASYLS €°S 1S

a8 1S

‘Se2800¥' BMY L95POME

LSAAYVH

woos

‘0008-P6z 207
‘0010,

si0u=4,
s ceurmaaitory
ag e119 enles 3 OF nares

NWI

NOILLVLS NIVULTVO “CL

AATW/LOT ONIN “bb

WIDHANWOS/AOVEVS ONY “Ob WIDYAWNOD '6

LANVYNWLSSY “S

LNVUNVLSSY 7

LNVUNVLSAY/TVIOYAWINOD *€

LNVUNVLSSY 2

sIosiapy.

vw >

“TvIQUaNNOoBOVEVOS

‘ONIgTINE G3SOdO¥d|

TWUNSOIS3Y/IO1 40
NOLLONYLSNOO YIGNN|



--- page 97 ---
~

8 Ov tees @) owen
Wd ZL - }@ ANNE - AGNLS YV10S Wd @- be SNAP - AGALS YV10S

‘3ENON 133HS

SaIGNLS MOGWHS

SSNWN 1334S.

g'

NOILONYLSNOD
4uO4 LON

seg
soupy
on ziocoee , .
tte 3998 y~ Y
\ \
\ \
\ ; Vv \
Y Y
ad ane () ose
WY 6- b2 SNAP - AGNLS YVIOS Wd €- }2 ANNP - AGALS YW10S
/ ¢ t ¢

202240 “WhO Ho 13S NOISSPWIO9 ONIN IS
renaon0
aczent
exczzu0
ezczoue0
zzz
va

TROLL
0 138 NOISSINNOD 9
LObP6 VO ‘OSLVW NYS
LASYLS €°S 1S

Losroue

AB 1sl

LSAAYVH
| aro
‘woormus \ \ \
Lvli-vez or ‘0008-P6z 207 \ \ \
xed 80), \ \



--- page 98 ---
60V

‘3ENON 1334S

SAIGNLS MOGWHS

SSNWN 1334S.

NOILONYLSNOD
4uO4 LON

‘ats:
rg ‘AB OBOIHO.
sou ‘AB NII
oo ziococe *YIEINNN L93PONE
ee 30s

2c22u0 —“WhOMeW HO 13S NOISSRWODONINNVIS — §
retgons0 PA TWLLINENSY NOUWONeeWONNNV IS
arent ———“S#WLINGN SRI NOLWOMaeVONNNVES
exuzizu0 2A TWLINEN SY NOLWOMeeY ONAN Z
ezczoue0 wLNens24NOLWONAY ONIN
zzz NOuWOr de NNN
va Wottanios30 o
snotsinae
an 31v0 30881
WO LAS NOISSINNOO ONINNT anes

LObP6 VO ‘OSLVW NYS
LASYLS €°S 1S

a8 Sb

‘S82800Y' 3H L95POME

LSAAYVH

m sk.

woos
Lvli-vez or ‘0008-P6z 207
xe 2010)
1196 ewe
sor ues si0ue4,
oz ans, ceurmoaitony
ag e119 enles 3 OF nares

NWI

sote=u 0 =
@ Wd Z1 - b2 YASAWLdAS/HOVWN - AGN.LS YV10S () Wd Z - }2 YSEWALdS/HOUVIN - AGNLS: UYI0S

aes 2-1
© WV 6- 12 HSEWALdSS/HOMWW - AGNLS YVIOS ©) Wd € - 12 YSSWALAAS/HOUVW - AGNLS YVIOS



--- page 99 ---
Ol OV

‘3ENON 1334S

SAIGNLS MOGWHS

SSNWN 1334S.

NOILONYLSNOD
4uO4 LON

‘ats:
rg ‘AB OBOIHO.
sou ‘AB NII
oo ziococe *YIEINNN L93PONE
ee 30s

2c22u0 —“WhOMeW HO 13S NOISSRWODONINNVIS — §
retgons0 PA TWLLINENSY NOUWONeeWONNNV IS
arent ———“S#WLINGN SRI NOLWOMaeVONNNVES
exuzizu0 2A TWLINEN SY NOLWOMeeY ONAN Z
ezczoue0 wLNens24NOLWONAY ONIN
zzz NOuWOr de NNN
va Wottanios30 o
snotsinae
an 31v0 30881
WO LAS NOISSINNOO ONINNT anes

LObP6 VO ‘OSLVW NYS
LASYLS €°S 1S

a8 Sb

‘S82800Y' 3H L95POME

LSAAYVH

m sk.

woos
Lvli-vez or ‘0008-P6z 207
xe 2010)
1196 ewe
sor ues si0ue4,
oz ans, ceurmoaitony
ag e119 enles 3 OF nares

NWI

ae

Wd Z} - }2 040- AGNLS YVIOS

WV 6-12 95d- AGALS YV10S

ante

Wd @- 12 940 - AGN.LS YVIOS

owes

Wd €- b2 040 - AGNLS YV1OS



--- page 100 ---
-
Lh OV v

BONN 1234S

SNV1d Vauv YOOT4

NOILONYLSNOD
uOd LON

rg
oan
oo ziocaee

b=

PenaeZ0 “WAOWIEW HOSS NOISSFWODONINNIS — §
yarzens0 —s47WLINGNSRINOLWONaeVONNNVES >
ezozen; «SH TWLINEN SY NOLWOMaeVONNNV IE
rarzizuo «4 TWLIENS3R NOLWONaW ONAN IS Z
zcz0u60 TWLLINGNSSH NOWWONdN MINNIS
ava NolaRios30 W
snorsin3e

RRL, "alvasnssi

WO LAS NOISSINNOO ONINNT nest

LObP6 VO ‘OALVIN NYS
LASYLS €°S 1S

aelst

‘Se2800Y' BMY L95POME

Pree

¥0014 GNODAS - NV1d W34V YOOTS

fveets

¥YOOT14 LSuld - NVId Wad HOOTS

fT S lars Z
ie ee ® i
= e x i = an
, 7 - Lp
led | i
| fee
Raw
So 5) - E - — — — 5)
red AS O'8SSL1 :VaUV HOOTS LSUIS
‘dl AS 0'9902 :G Wau
; AS 0'0845 :0 VaNV
aS eleva -a. vauV AS F'gszi :8 VauV
aS S'S6z1 -v VEE z AS 62012 'V VaUV
'SNOLLWINOWO VaUV HOOT ISNOLLY INOW VaHY HOOTS |
ca -
Oo + Ets) - 7
=| waa fy é
_ <
y t \
V \
a | E} - A 7 + E)
/
&
& NS
( 2 2-5
5 aia
yy | [ace ob = oa + a - 5 -— ~ a
> 1
AS F362 as Oa, AS Leb 4S S'S6zL, Bes 4S 0 AS O'°0ELS \, 4S 8szb. Bes
avauy —| va ava val a E ova ava
g ¥ /
\
5 Shr \ =I
\ /
4S E017, i
=: t + os z va = t (a>
oe > ——| i s
jw SSS SS ee se eereceelll if
i 8 i i i I cr
| | | | |
| I
i i i i


--- page 101 ---
~

cL OVY

PenaeZ0 “WAOWIEW HOSS NOISSFWODONINNIS — §
yarzens0 —s47WLINGNSRINOLWONaeVONNNVES >
ezozen; «SH TWLINEN SY NOLWOMaeVONNNV IE
rarzizuo «4 TWLIENS3R NOLWONaW ONAN IS Z
zcz0u60 TWLLINGNSSH NOWWONdN MINNIS
ava NolaRios30 W
snorsin3e

RRL, "alvasnssi
WO LAS NOISSINNOO ONINNT nest

BONN 1234S

SNV1d Vauv YOOT4

SSNWN 1334S:

NOILONYLSNOD
uOd LON

‘ats
rg ‘AB OBOIHO.
oan "AB NEO
oo ziocaee *YIEINNN L93PONE
b= 30s

LObP6 VO ‘OALVIN NYS
LASYLS €°S 1S

aelst

‘Se2800Y' BMY L95POME
Sa1L¥adoud

‘ANT

woos

LvLi-vez or ‘0008-P6z 207

xe ‘0010,

1196 ewe

sor ues, si0u=4,

oz ans, ceurmaaitory

ag e119 enles 3 OF nares

MWe

eens

NW1d 400714 HLYNOS

y
AS Zaps)
av:

2-0

IS €ZOLZ
vay

earl

NWId 400714 GYIHL

S uy LO
; z
— q 1 7 aN
A | Se SH a
: a : : I
eS if eS FS ce
j a U9)
AS L'0r9'8 ‘Wau HOOT GYIHL Ic dS 6°018'6 ‘Wau YOOTS GYIHL ‘i
‘AS 1686-0 VaNV dS 1'S62 0 Wav
AS 2875S a VaNV eit AS O'8bLZ ‘6 VAN
ds ©70l2 ‘Vv vauV AS 8'26€2 ‘V Wau
*SNOLLWINDIVO Wauv 40074 | - —— sSNOILWINDWO Vauv HOOT ng
ae es
hs C y Tie
| ; : HE
- 7 - 4 2 - 2 — ~ 2
“J BETIS < Seat tiF | WO o< [a
4 t \ g
1 WW t y £ 7
-—- —- ERE SAG -—- - -0OH4 TAG
ome
a 1
-— - 4 FSS aa -=]- - a
V7 y
As b'S6z AS O'8L1, AS 8L6E%
* oOvauy avi Wi g Bes
SH yy Ric sft
©
\ Hy
; {Ol I 4 ~ | HF
1
a - ~—|- - =a mG)
= = af
—= — vig
- =f | - - -
1 o5



--- page 102 ---
NV 1d ALIS ONILSIXS

‘3ENON 1334S

SNNSAV LS}

‘Se2800Y' BMY L95POME

LSAAYVH

ag e119 enles 3 OF nares

}j}

=)
YO4 LON am 1
mil
—
= a
rey eel
' Suyy Io)
'
--__--__]
e+
4 2 g VW z o
73 z ‘
® ~ s 5 3
a4 8 es a —_ ~~ ~~ ~ wate
Zz a
a ay
4a a 2 V
za on 8
< =O = i
V - o wares
=n
sm Oem ud
an ;
ene
7
=a a
voumuy —woatroussossavco sn 9 pls
ma NOUEROSIOSLONIN CB
FRR cnmoocumn ae SSLON. Ady
LObr6 VO ‘OSLYN NYS
LASYLS €'S LS
-
a8 lst



--- page 103 ---
LbV

"HEN 1234S

BO wa 8

NW1d SLIS GaSOdO0ud | >—~< ;

NOILONYLSNOD
uOd LON

2/ 1
wis 5 1
= 5
oorevozoee: yy
‘payeaipla sty awos: 7 ~ I
Wis fos)
asmussoaveany | — |
\
7 mrstsonuva magsan0y wen------ + Z, I
| i
$8300¥ JTOMSA AONIOUSINS O3LV90734 38 OL to:
‘TIM G3HSIOW30 WOUS ] :
NIT ALYRdONd —_-- VW SOVNOIS ONDMYVd “SLON z E
daNa931 HE
' a a H 1
f 3 ; 7 a - :
V 2
g
1
r
AS 02 2b fe
' ANIY¥d.LOOJ ONIGTING GaSOdOud, 3 q q
NL i
y Ae
3 '
Vo 8 3 n
g : : we
S 8 |/~ vost, 70
1 Oo m i
m m
Z oVY/ a
y
m z, -) 7 z |
(anoay) sivonnwad a38s3038 a z le Le, 1
g y
< 4 :
‘weOzseziL0 “WhOUddY HO4 13S NOISSIWNODONINNYId = § | G :
foremost WLIMGTSSN NOLYOFaeW ONS 7 - 1 |
Femi FWLNENSRINOUWOeeV OMNIS = D> :
mmeizuo eM NOLYOReeY ONS Z = !
baozoieo— WLAMrssuNOLVonacoNTOWr |
ZeOZVN NOUWOR GW ONINNYTE v :
a ne a
none : = 8
on “Sves6) | nous LO CD FAIRY
204138 NOSSIAND NNN snes SSLONASY :
LOPH6 VO ‘OLY NYS y
ISLS °S ZS Y 4 g ss
G Fh00L

0

a8 lst z

LSSAUNVH

z
wos 5

am
NaTO -NaNaS¥3 AWN

woos
LvLi-vez or ‘0008-P6z 207
xe ‘0010,
s10ven4,
s ceurmaaitory y
ag e119 enles 3 OF nares

MWe



--- page 104 ---
0'¢V

‘2ENON 1334S

NW1d YOO14 LSUld

‘SVN 1334S.

NOILONYLSNOD
4uO4 LON

sou

an 31¥0 30881
7

nest

LObP6 VO ‘OSV NYS
AASYLS 8°S 1S

a8 Sb

‘Se2800Y' BWW L95POME

LSAAYVH

woos

LvLi-vez or ‘0008-P6z 207
xe E

PO

si0u=4,
ceurmaaitory
nares

ATeNESSYYOOT EN =p
N

a

(Lo¥RILNOO NILON) ON

fern
NW1d YOOTS LSU

QN3931

NOWeIOSIOS1ONASN_ CED

SALONA

ait

TEREST

oe

ml

ony
woowannd 24

g

oe

i.

ib

=
Woo WORISE13 NIN

2:8



--- page 105 ---
Lev

‘2ENON 1334S

'SNWN 1334S.

NV1d YOO14 GNOOSS

NOILONYLSNOD
4uO4 LON

LObP6 VO ‘OSLVW NYS
LASYLS 8°S 1S

a8 Sb

‘Se2800Y' BWW L95POME

LSAAYVH

woos

‘0008-P6z 207
‘0010,

si0u=4,
ceurmaaitory
nares

(Lo¥RILNOO NILON) ON

a

“dAL '9NIZ¥IO LNOW-BYOIS CBI YO

QN3931

A
8
5
,
5
z
i

NOWeI}OS30 BLONABH_ CED

SALONA

fer

NV1d YOO14 GNOOSS



--- page 106 ---
cov

‘2ENON 1334S

NV1d YOO14 GYIHL

‘SVN 1334S.

NOILONYLSNOD

WO LAS NOISSINNOD O

LObP6 VO ‘OSLVW NYS
LASYLS 8°S 1S

a8 Sb

‘Se2800Y' BWW L95POME

LSAAYVH

woos

LvLi-vez or ‘0008-P6z 207
xe ‘0010,

si0u=4,
ceurmaaitory
nares

ATRNSSY YOOG ENE
NX

aaa

ae

QN3931

\7/ sovorsyonasonsxa

NOWeI}OS30 BLONABH_ CED

SALONA

© NV1g BOOT CUIL
Y
ee,
- = = a)
A cll
--@
8
_@
“goog [ye A .
if asaa |], ria am .
> "[foo00’ Jaa eS
GUuuU oh 3
— o i all -—@
8
&
©
-4--@
ee : -1--@
\ \ ' \
© |
ey



--- page 107 ---
e'ev

‘2ENON 1334S

NV1d YOO14 HLYNOS

‘SNWN 1334S.

NOILONYLSNOD
4uO4 LON

sou

RRL, iva 50681

" nest
LObP6 VO ‘OSLVW NYS
LASYLS 8°S 1S

a8 Sb

‘Se2800Y' BWW L95POME

LSAAYVH

woos

LvLi-vez or ‘0008-P6z 207
xe E

PO

si0u=4,
ceurmaaitory
nares

ATeNESSYYOOT EN =p
N

ae

(Lo¥RILNOO NILON) ON

QN3931

NOWeI}OS30 BLONABH_ CED

SALONA

frets

NW1d ¥OO14 HLUNOS

4 ——=

S Ter
(Ou STE TT

fre

Mar
feroorseey

jam

| Nooulsae

Cl] Com
jOOwLSTE STEIGFIOO

we

yl ee



--- page 108 ---
vcV

‘2ENON 1334S

NV1d 3004

‘SVN 1334S.

NOILONYLSNOD

WO LAS NOISSINNOD O

LObP6 VO ‘OSLVW NYS
LASYLS 8°S 1S

a8 Sb

‘Se2800Y' BWW L95POME

LSAAYVH

woos

LvLi-vez or ‘0008-P6z 207
xe ‘0010,

si0u=4,
ceurmaaitory
nares

ATeNESSYYOOT EN =p
N

8
5
+
£
z
i

NoWelt9$30 BLONABH_ CED

SALONA

fers

NW1d J00¥

we
Rave

90h

wala wwe

om



--- page 109 ---
-
i FER © NV exnion ©

iS) sso. 989
WALSAS YOOd ONIGTOHE \Z ‘omavio inowszu01s ‘AdONYO 1331S V ee 3d SONINSdO

aaLoRs3y

SNOLLWAS14 YOIMALXA © re © iid) @ FE S) snynat os

‘SVN 1334S. SNBLSWTd LN3W39 HINONJIHOLS G3WVES VO ONigav10 oom \z/ :N334OS TYOINVHOSI JOO8 STBVINNW Ya

SSS N ‘SLNALX4
J N Nj oniciina
(S) — © (S) \\ ontdoaHoIaN

N fe) ILD n te] 1s N fe) 0) ve HOLMBLXS \V onzwio Tvmnnvasng “iIveauyno ssv19_ “TaNVd WLAN Qs

404 LON A113 Wd TWIdSlVW QN3931

@) waza @) bean
NOILWAI13 LSW3 - GYOUTIVY NOILWAS13 HLYON - 490718-ClN

0
8 + YOOTSS

.0-.Sb
280015)

-30¥uO BNULSIXE NOS AHOBHENTIN WiOL

eee —— —- —
¥ YOO

0-5
alvid 40 dOL

Vv : —~———

veczrezu0
renaon0
aczent
exczzu0
ezczoue0
zzz
va

Wottanios30

ae. ® NOILVA3TS HINOS - SNNSAV LSI ® NOILWASTS LSIM- L33Y1S 8S
oe 7 — WANYOO BP 1S} LV ANVS JHL FW IOVYS G3SOdONd ONY TOVeD ONILISIXA3LON \Z/_ —= \7/ 3190 88151 1 ans 3HL 26 ava C2S0dOud CNY 30VYD ONS LON
LObr6 VO ‘OAL NVS | |
L33U1S 8S 1S (Vem Fa g
® + yOO1s
G8lSb gas - = : |_| _—_
88: 103f0¥e z YOO : 12)
LSAAYVH g g
2 2 J
20-82 g g ° imo)
€ 4001S Fl 3 + =
= vi; He I, ae =
g 8 S \ -@
: | | | ] i Wu | | ]
= i 3
snuvvereor never or 623" oxi : a
_——_ VW V : JOVNOIS if



--- page 110 ---
~

Lev
SNOILVAA14
CNV SNV1d G49YV1N3
"SNOILOAS ‘SNOILdO
LNOYSSYOLS

‘SNWN 1334S.

NOILONYLSNOD
4uO4 LON

‘aNwas:

‘AB OBORHO
‘8 NINES
‘SIENNN L93POME

bea 30s

“WhOdide Hos 13S NOISSIWIO9 ONIN IS
‘nF WLUNNSSR NOLYONTde¥ ONINNTS
( WLIMENSH NOLYOTda¥ ONINNS
24 WLUMENS2d NOLYOF dav ONINVIS
“WIEN S24 NOLVOMe¥ ONIN
NOuWOr de NNN

Wottanios30 ¥

snotsin3e

eRe, 31v0 30881

WO LAS NOISSINNOO ONINNT nest

LObP6 VO ‘OSLVW NYS
LASYLS €°S 1S

@8 Sb

‘SS2800Y' BMY L95POME

LSAAYVH
| aro
worn
eave sor 008-182 207
ees e210
1196 mone

crores sono
ox sins oman

ag e119 enles 3 OF nares

NWI

Feeney whe on

sissy juin ay030 a)en0a cua)
‘S10dS OND 38 FEL ONOT 2b

NW1d WOO Syd G398V INS NOILWAS14 HLNOS WOOY S18

Oooo 4 q) ~

isissv
| HIM 439030
yignog ou3a

[i

(wars sovas wax ow30)
'810¢S ONDANd 3Ml8 S3I-9NOTS

.
) NOILVAS13 LSV3 WOOY Syd

343007

erTO wh

YBAVS 30VdS
‘vaL1N OH30

@

oi ztih
® @ AULNA VZV 1d YSNYOO

“ONINMY LNOHLIM St
NOLLVYNOLINOD LINW43G ‘3SvaTSud SI 30Vds
“IWVL34 I SLNVNAL A@ N3SOHO 38 OL SNOIS3G

40 S3 Taxa SUY SNOLLVUNDIINOD ONINMY SLON.

.
© € NOILdO LNOYSSYOLS

SNOILVAA14 8 SNW1d G49eV1N4

sobs a

v @

40-82.
€ YOON

-0- by
Gy x01

NOILOSS MOGNIM ‘dAL ASTIV

Obes

NOILOAS 28 | NOILdO LNOYISHOLS

| NOLLdO LNOWJIYOLS
NO GaS$303u SI
4000 SHLATNO SLON

i
| AMLNA VZV1d YSNYOO

ZNOILdO LNOYSIYOLS

Pree
NOILOSS MOGNIM ‘dAL L3SYLS 88 LS}

10- bb,
y OO

(8) NOILOAS b 9 € SNOILdO LNOYISYOLS

SNOILOAS MOGNIM 8 LNOYsASYOLS

SG si
AYLN3 301440

© + NOILdO LINOYISYOLS

SNOILdO LNOYSAYOLS


--- page 111 ---
~

cev Vv

wenn 13348 VY VW
GuYvOd TWIMALVN
NOILONYLSNOD
404 LON

a=
© G3OYVINA ONINNV Td SINGSHOS NVTd HSINIS

ZTE

ee] [FF

/ MIN

/

iS) ‘YaLSV1d LNAW39 @ ‘GOOM GaSOdXx4 © ‘AdONVO 7341S

TWnOdlde Hod 138 NOISSINNO ONINNVTS

Vv v4 —

LObP6 VO ‘OSLVW NYS
LASYLS €°S 1S

—— Y gasn LON

a 81st @ — ‘WALSAS YOOd ONIGIOS19 S) “IWYCYVND SSV19 © ‘ONIZV19 LNONSSYOLS | @ ‘N33IYOS WOINVHOIWN JOO

‘Se2800V' BMY L95POME

LSAAYVH

— pe Pe ]

woos
LvLi-vez or ‘0008-P6z 207 | |
xe ‘0010,

896 sngeg () ‘ONIGGV10 YOMALXA S) “INONISYOLS GAWVes-evG iS) ‘ONIZV19 TIVMNIVLYND (2) ‘TANVd TWLSW

NWI



--- page 112 ---
~

0vV

‘3ENNON 133HS

SNOILOSS ONICTING

‘SVN 1334S.

sea
® NOILOSS HLNOS-HLYON

NOILONYLSNOD

9 s501 —
+ yools
amis
——— Hq
a a Vv q
saan AB NEV
aru oan coe |
tsb Bl aWOS it
.0-.Sb q
z4ools |
it
g Hg
2 =
0-.82_ _2 | g| _
€ YOO & aoe
up | Hae
ale g a\8
vi : |i
tos
4.07.1, 3 i : | 2
* HOON R g
Vv I
it
|
it
0-5 q
Alwid 40 dOL — - -
© ® i)
reraezu0 “Whole HOALESNOSSINOOONINE —§
ooos0 — EWLLMETSRUNOUYONAY ONIN
Se WLIMETSRINOUYOTAVONNNNRS —F °
SFuulncrsanoucrcavaumns Aameavmmmowens 5 8 2soor
WLUMIENSSUNOLVONMAY ONIN | ancoweivoxnirassn9 q
NOUYanaev ONIN AaONO OVS HIS
WaTanoes0 7 Try ders 003
M NEROS VONWOR GREATOT VIN
snotsin
RRR area escort
Fee cssimnco our es SILONAS™
4 - jaiel lila B
LOPP6 VO ‘O3LVIN NYS Zabo1 } Hi
L3RUIS 4S 1S Vv | 4
i] _ 1
a i 7
5 | g
ll i = H
a| |? i =
0-82 _ g|_ |e) _ Lu = L — 3
€ NOO1d a : IT H 1 3
gs J i { a3
q 8 LS) 2|* a j z 8 i I 8\*
85209 ¥ 319 LosTOue a & | 3|8 i 8 |
] g
: ole H ole a| V
0-.bb g
LSAAYVH OFM ~ ~ 7 ~ T VW i T g '
|
1
a H)
Vi) i
axano i
— ee H
0-08 a ne = = \
ALWid JO dOL @o ; r
a 1
S °

woos
LvLi-vez or ‘0008-P6z 207
xe ‘0010,

1196 ewe
sor ues si0u=4,
oz ans, ceurmaaitory

ag e119 enles 3 OF nares

NWI


--- page 113 ---
~

rie
0 . GV () SLHOISH ONILNNOW AYOSS3IOOV ONV SYNLXId WOONLSSY

“rowea924 ena ONE
“S3ENWN 133HS_ 2H 6) RN "SNIVINNO ONDINYG M078 KOI BL HLO8 BLWOOWNOODV A OL 19 36 OL AAVH LON THAN ® SONNILNCO St 3S¥E
si nvat3ai 01 anrnenaa tts SONI LUG 819 NN GIS NO INTIS S138 Five, 3u0S18 OL TOVLESO SE NSCS THO
1NSHVanoD 39010 HSLVMLAMOL VN 1 “savings honing OF ws S3N0O TV ev 50 WOL108 #250 WM 0 HEH 391003000,
mel BONWEVSTIO SOL “2108 Woo’ L101,
‘yous! weausa -ys040 angie 120 vans 03) ‘anos (as) vouan 9 oN vans weinnos ‘L000 wasaeso rowsaoRy assiauso
1501 395300" BEND LIS wc selves STASSIODY HMOTESHA WBqveLSIOL AWOL TaSsI00v awn Passa0oy TREN TeISSIDOV PasSHOOV onDhted OH oN OT .¥ 508 nolan navies easnadSO NOL Naas | THNOL Seva ania
s/3 ale 3 - s [> » Pesee  |_lsls || /BeeBlUoa © 7 2 0-H a
z 2 in ely g = 2,
algd Elz zs \ - = NN sean i 88 2/88 3|2 EP ¢ y ze 3
35 5 Ele \ > 5 2\3, 2 g ale [28 Paes z 2 * * *
z\s zi : ale b al g Ale Bae 2|3 ag 5 2 ex 2 :
S1IVL3G ALIMIGISSS00¥ El 58 sossan : Jute 288 : 3 RS SHR E £8 eB ef 2/6 [8 5s a, : z z
SBNWN 133HS. 43g ay wOLvAlloy E soNvuvano 35 BSE cw z 2/85 #  Rlga 8/5 les 3a |* 33 ale Zia = E E
8 nowlnoo sn 3 301 ag O88 F 5|33 Rigs gz ao ogg Hp a Ei Ei
2 aad 3|° a = = Et = aS ES =
: > 23 BBS = 8 —— == — 4 Ce go 93 &
Wat ge eS 4 a8 8
— ai B83 4 . Sg E
non 2 ge t & B “ |
sas io1 a
NWWZh Ne Nave PN ow asHOLNT |
sxamavanoa weenonoue aout - nm =
wnat asiounasezoy “ys04soNDN KAIST soa wees ory —/ |
‘MIYHOTaSHM ‘Odi. NOLLYNIGNOO 03883038 80 3SHMNINZP HSIN Nid 40 303 vA wise |
Ps | fe) 4 1o N SIN Nie 20 304 ‘LVOOT'CINGSHOS 22H csv waren |
Nw. ( sHuain 19 a30Navwioo3e) 338 30"NOIS ‘SLUYd TTEVEEIO
Non dat '3nogy sL03rE0 aXe Hc30.¥2< ANOOTW 41NTO NINE WeLTIOL
PEONMIATONNZ aI NL 40068 aysovsne muon ns 1 —)
‘yworae sioarao oNL2aoue wy ao¥suns LOTTA SOHO <> INE HLEBOND
2 GD NMLE 30¥eS 81D NIV MO SSIHOLYAW] 3AGY SNOOTY a HLOWM HTD NINE «avs HLd30 LGN 79 NIN 9 7 ’ a
canvas a (031001 LON 26 SHOR EREHA, ‘ANG NIM SH: cao
"980 OL U343U '3SN SINSUOTIH HOd SALLIWOV HO4 “SLTNGW HO4 SEV NMOHS SINAWYINDIY ALMISS300V 9 “LON SI HLOIM BT9 NINE
ND ssanomo SS? vn Fasss00yOSTWLIN BYONOLSNI OLUI—F sys axpurna 355 Noss
“GigNS TAgESDOV JODNSWEALOL BEF NOWYOLNSG WOW NSHWESE
saan Ag NEGO SGvAWD nan ON sOSWigaALOL SEE 30d SLOzNGO ONLOmNOUAY ua BYE NaBH 29¥4S WTO
aarioenee wenn 195P0u6 ‘wondAl YOOWHSN40 OL NO HUY CELVSON SINK 21 aang ceva orto 9 TiN 3 NEBL Sa CORY 3OVES 1 3H OLN
—————___ Non <A 30¥Od-SoNnOdSS STOLINGD BUALXY OMENS VNLOYOL CORIIOEOA EN OvOUDNS ON TIVES SURV AOSSHOOY NOLYNNOD CHNOSHOS ISHN
Pareanusy 98 SiON sion
& ® en
“ung 9 HovOMAY TaTIVAN VOY (ONNEAO 6 NYLON S3MN35BNVALOLVATTE 341 SUSHIL
snusasa) ep LovINGD onlin oad OM Sana onNsdo Se ‘4O} SUOLWA3TS ONO NI SNOLLNE TOHLNOD BvD 318Ve3dO 1S3HOIH SHL Ol G3MOTI SI LIV XVM 4 (NINO ONDINE
j <NTOUDNOE YONG YNOSUHN STOQMAS CNY SUBLOWEMED CoS 3ONOUS Nouv nouvAss ouvir wanna Nouyazts wvinnos
{2000 3Hi 30 NOLLVOOT WOURSA IHL ANASTHCTE Wi ssaion  ZONVSIO. ssowyuyaTg 301 8 33NX ‘ONDYNEIG OHH ‘ONDANRIG MOT
HOM '@ 3NIT 80 ¥ INIT U3HLIS HONOUHL S28S¥d 1937EO WALSAS. 2019 GAL UNS >
iv dSLvl.ov Saag oNNSeOS8 bod auMMOLNY ouvawnnnnnoo . N
ay Aan ONDE - snows 3} ETS rs ss Sa
nowy svkoa. aH 00 on uDvaeS —__ 00000 | Ble BSF “Homa 3) Be FHS a 2
NOB df. SNOLING TY ~ £990, - 3|z ann «= «3 | ES Be lea 2S
8 £[gs3 ee eae 32
_ z we 3 ihe] 88
. O 2 cosa ~ aS
“ 3 gous AONEUINE \ 3 2 iH) vino Y 8s
ac ‘ONDINE &
ale en avoiae Lan st y ag
Pie ite — 08 OW; ee eee ;
ar 3 : — bord vey Tony mane ‘ wos WvIod
= 2 3 Ey “NIL ELS: ™~ ‘NITES 030d ‘CRONSWNOO3E L SNOOTY BO STIVM
i i : 2 ata \ —! rnerviowousng oN sacwwoos” Seanoiict LL qos ST
3 -
Ey Roe “FINO TEAST AGING NWT & - nao
ge peed “rinse cagine calovanoo 2 oxeoe (axooTy nud (srivmon xo sonrva nu
zi > = 38070 Neo 40044 NVANnO¥ ONDMUG OTH NvTé ——-NIVINNO4 ONDINRIG MOT NYE
Sg = , Higa wos wasn Nona so
Zz 2 aALHRLOVEVHD GO3Y NO LNGTIS $1.90 y — MOTNO G3Y3LN39 (4930 2< ONTIVE
5 Z 4:08 cae Miao Eo
_ 3 NO SUBQRWNN 'SNOUWNDIS3O 14 z 32a HOWE MOTZ 40 OL 8 HSIN Nie 40 ‘Nin (SAN) 85 x 08 a
8 Neer eaen g 5  — aTiesova sowoLawsNsNaNG ino?
& 3 — SAOOWMI exposes +
B z L penn swvaninos WNW aE ne owno4-0 wz
£ 8 wow ana oTMaossnorsaa hg
2 ; | wmiouasis| = “ero mevmautes sds atv NS =
i p NOWIS=0¥id ‘NOLLOIaStEnt ‘
a vA ONIAVH ALIAOHLY HM a 28
Ay or oe +4-Op OF E _ vongariias Suey 2 Gbeg2\
ows vouviana 2 smounaanisa / aad caswnn.es ZONA NESNOD ht ae aay nouna
aw nouvnowra a wouvevess | sevens ew si— Nowe 88 soune ean
z . ‘waiouss 7
(NUN2/4 2X NIN AZUL rs \. ‘BHLaNOBY GaaNaWICOsY__—~ a
e000 swoRkY 3 zuzavovagsny —,HOVaIvaHviNnos SONS 1 snows att
"INABLNY) STWNSIS TI¥H \ "Noung uve © ONDINUGZNIVBOMOU
“sai0n
© he en een
440 0.948780
swoogmuwossms, + “save avso ow sya fe LvauNron al HLom sS3e03 OREORY IAL
S400d 1x3 40d SETS . ‘NO SLN3VEUINDRY 9d NO G3S¥E BV O3LYOIAN! 00 ‘SBD HOLWASTS HOS COSY 38 OL OLN LN3MHOWOUONG XY nf CBYINOTY-3O09 |
‘SHOOG INI HO "S815 . (989 NI GALWAS ATIVOISIO3eS LON 3u¥ STIVY LUOddNS YO4 GALOIONE (C0) SUBLAVWIASOISLNO —'y -SHLNI NOISITTONIOE4 LeN2X3 $1 AMWAY
‘SuOOd GZONH ONIKSNd "SUMLONALS ONL HOddNS HO JOIN ONLINAOW "HINAUSYS HOON 353 13H HOLV GALNNON-30W4UNS
W2O2IEZL0—WAOMdelW HO4L3S NOISSPWMODONINNVIG = ‘HOONTINd HO4 X¥W GOsY Het € ‘$3143 NI SYOOG “Ww 14OddNS 3HI NO INKOd ANY IV G5TIddY SI $7 052 40 30UOS TWINOZRIOH HO TOLLNSA WV
POO) MVLINGTRE NOUYONMEVOMNN E> f Naki cisn Simba. wos C20890K9 39 LON TMS SVE LAOEeISNO SESSRSTUMOTY
a0zipk CHTVLLINGSaH NOLWOMWaV ONIN! ‘©NINEdO MO NIVZE'® HOI NIL ‘SV LNOdcIIS 40 dOL OL GUNS WIN S¥ XW UY SE B NV Jd¥ KE LWST¥YLUOddNS INOW
vot 08° HLGIM SVS HO XM Br ‘S339 sanias| “SINAN 3 aNSYUGN LO ce¥HS 20 abd S3O¥SENS INZOWPOY ¥
ezinizuo Za TMLLETSIANOUWORWeVONIWE §«—Z— YMSE GOR sasuOOGLKa soca a20NH OL) ‘ood 20M OM + loons 36 Tw sv Si GHLVOHN Ge SS0vaur lAaovrGY v6 lou
e20z/0L/00, WLUINGNSSY NOLIWONdey ONINNYIE wooo: saonvevaro inoue’ NSAML3E 3ONWUWSTO MM UD YOLWARTA 20 ING S31 LV NO Siive LYOdeNs 3aMNOwd + =
iL word “sal0N g
2a soars ner g 4
y 3108 Fa ia
snosnnl war 000 240 YANO HN zd TOMLNGO NO 40 NOLVOOTELMAAL e Be /
—— sin OOTORNSEO ENO RIN TENN Blge | ake
RR, SUNOS! Mwy giEe o BES
40 LIE NOISSINICD ONINNid nest + 28
ace ON ZF See 23 g
LOrt6 VO ‘OALWW NYS ih | S83
1331S 8'S 1S t J &
sass
#000 G20NH OAL)
do ohrotls oMaSiAD LAO.
‘ontno3 ow save Trane ousoacansuo
9 S220 ONYe SUMMON e -armssau030 om OOO aSNGSHDS
eALABASTAB 10203 g
TONS sEvEadO SUV INCONK z
Tana 2 nousoacan40 )
Sonne wososSure Ye + 2 -xrng azo un Nooo as ngs /
a8 1S _
%
ssseccv enn 2508 yeuaavs tae “wa howins
Snape GN |
LSAAYVH 5 suooa sNoNIs a
= ‘SBHOVOUdEY z
sas tend BOISHOLWT =} = MONI
ed i
x sas Tne
“Anan UBSOTOW ¥ HOLY]
‘ioe se 000 2000 9NNEdO 2a LIN Tad TOWINOD HNO 30 NOLYOOT aIMERLTY.
STM srk SION
OOO ONNEED SOTA TSTT NTE
hb woNm se
» ‘ syooa g
‘ONIONIMS: FY
3S HSN SaHOVOUddY a
3IS3ONIH |
‘ aais Tind
woos
LeLi-rez sor 0008162 20% 2),
res 10 218
2 \z
1196 ewomeg seo 1a tz 47 38 2 |2
bor ues sven S000 LN LYNN 452 au
02 uns, ceurmaaitory ~ge “eM
sexo eues 3 08 om 88 LG s wre aeons
i’ $YOOd ONIDNIMS: \
aaisusne s3Hovodddy = 308 TINg NS
LNOYS a
aasoravnHouNT 2g
Yiu08 sv 40 BS
Brace ON 35

SONI.9@

8V 000.0


--- page 114 ---
~

hes

sv ©

‘2ENON 1334S

S1VL3d ALIMaISSSDOV

SSNWN 1334S

wo:
SFONVYVSTO NWId TIVLS-LINW WOOdLSSY LNI VO

ETEOESHL 960 Use KHN.Zh AB 30¥ES ONNUML HL
‘OLN HO¥OMONS 01 CLR 38 TMS ‘NOILISO! AN MOOG SINAMWANOD 13S07D HALA
$18SS309¥ 01 HOO 3H Ne HH.9 ‘NOLLVIIM LNOKLL 3Q¥S ONNA/L SAL OLN HOYORONS
(01 03.4 38 TWVHS SINSIUAWAVIOD L3S01D BSL¥M STAISS3OOY OL $4000 "SAX ANY BO,
(GSMINDE BONVENETIO HO (MN PX le] 30¥S YOO s AVE SAL OLN OMS LON THYHS $400.

‘CUI O69 Hc‘ IANO OL GALLI 28

9X 06) 30S YOO BYTO OBINORS
‘SNLNOMI dA ONY OaNITWNOWOQY 805
713 ONY SNVid WIIG OSIVT3Y OL ¥S58

“TWiS 30¥e NBRUNL GN SUM LY TONNE.
'SHROSIOV IFTOL

SSLNarUIs¥<WN09 137101 SIONS T1ASS3OOY 40 SNOLY
'NIOHS S¥ LNBILM¥AVIGO 137101 3AISS300¢

HL OL NoMIGGY Ni GzQ0R4 38 TIVES LN3MLévcNOO L3TOL ANOLYINENY 2NO LV

LV 3QWNORd BU STEN 9 SL3SOTO WSLVI" Q3NBNIOO 2O S13SOTO 2ELVM SHON BO MS REHM,

2
GL TIVM SNOIS LIX3 STILOVL - SOVNOIS

14000 NS 11a TEAST BOVE D WOIS:V 3AAL

7

ET Ny ———~

ATWMANoZuOH
‘c3¥24N30 Gh! HadaWHO 989
{Was TINH? SOMH DMONOSSSHOD

su ¥alavi
‘989 IM ATeINOO ‘QNNOOAOVE
‘SL1OL 40109 ONUSYALNOD
(MSUALLET AAO XON ZN 88

SALON ZH

(GMMR

3010801

:
3
3
3

svz0 wae
ALA Ye 00

dab
NW
ae

AIX |

“12A37 BOY LV 4G 1XG O1 SOYET LVHL MVS 1mx2 8 NOIS ‘8 3dAL

oO

sear Na
398 NOS HHL. —————

‘ca0Nnow 40
‘anoa'S100 Hum aT We Z 309

IAL vn ai @ OREO BO
i is B a30Nnow! wo aae¥a $2003

xz
gunn

INNOOYLSAY

Ganz

GL TIVM WHLS3Y Y30N39-T1V - SOVNOIS

NIV

{DAL Wd 01 G04 NN
¥O.s

NOILONYLSNOD il
noma ; i YS0N4A9-11V
INO SONIMS HC N3HM 870 NIN SF ‘SELON 33S ‘SIAL SV HONS.
YO4 LON Mca sonsao Mn one caus NMOG MIVLS LIXA nossa Re acges
+30veS YvaTO ONY iN
“BAZTNIN 09.03 ‘S10 ASUNSG LVHL SNOKS 3907 e 3LN0& LK3 B NOIS :9 IAL /
‘alt /
eo nlB BION DENONSSIaIINANGD Bane
yey. ‘AB OB¥OIHO //~ EROL Aouinany Terrase ee seo i
oo hee ALNON LIX3 sine RNREMAOE §
£ bes (bl) £
‘SBONYIVITO BIN as Wragg 730789 \\ maa Nd gle ‘ses ATTN —~
T01uos | ‘Manis xo $1937 SNRAINAOONE wersv Me aL a8 onanno \ g|E ‘agyanvis e034 W 08051 0N ¥OI0O OL 4
ma 5 88 . "4000 40 ONIMS SHL NLM, ge
Ba /§ 77 aj? sraveaz qv — ce = z ‘ONGNYLS WO S037 ONSLNTOONS ‘noz bal TMs £2
Oras sa10N 4 |g B2 / 5 ue ene 2 ON SOWNSTS KOVOMASY ANT NOS ES
+335 'NOWWLINTT ga (2 'o G3N0a'S1.00 mM aTHveEz 3QVED ad > / \x of e Ba. vavutwons vw anzovrov sauvaN ga
ANOHLIN = WINYOSIT¥D C3LIYYINOD 3OACYS STIVERS 9 a7 = =e ~ a WO) 4000 40 30IS HOLW1 OL ANZOWOY gz
sceinool in sualaveet 3 JOXYN 951 ra J, 38 usmoemoauome | NOOULSAY 32 — “SvnNoaonos iron NgnoO! 5
‘oaLUNc Hood Non #At'940 BO TWH 4 WALLS) ISON SSHOTHL | —“comeruoa 7 z3 TWAS. WALLA SSVOHLLN SSDI SHORLS / 3 ae
“LNSIMYANOD \\ aaa nanuavenioa DHOULS d. BBLLT BSVORCKN JO / 163111 3S¥vORSdal g 3g
an ‘tosis Be ai aoe Fay, anit aamonsenmumssenes . rn rn ae 38
‘aNnOUDNOvE wet el S ‘0390340 SSH LO SS4NNN"veNINS INOS az
-JOIS 31M NO TOXLNOD _LHOI No ava ¥o GNNCYOYOWE WPsISSIOOV \ 8 8 ‘44S SNS 3SWO LaddN NOS /M LSVELNOD Q ONINALSITSALSISSY | E a8
y— RRO.VALOW HSITId 2b] NO 1 HOYT SSH “NNO VOW \Fi (0140100 WOCMLSHR ANAL CASTE ZEN, 8 8
: onousy Sars erp av stone eaioveno dtu moran As ogy SARS" z ‘|
: | £15 ‘280 WEA AVH.Z CNY NPV SHELOVENED 2 i ale aL ONY DNAS SULIT E\s
= ‘CASVY 40 LHOGH AS BAUIVEVHD FA NOUOIOSIANTONIAWH ALMOHINY AdGORH | [NO HSIN SEVTO-NON LSYMLNOD ONV HSIN |e
ANSMULYEINOO ~ "BLL B3ldVHO 989 HIM ‘SW UO 038M LON SIALTWEISS209V JO T0BMAS | = “S7R0/-GhL NODES a
0. ssxfsons oan | \ eggs sot snucanoo savaa soso Mav AB WNOLMRRUI 108 40 HILN=9 9 N00 z aD Ma xm.2 a 8 HL g
mo) at cos 2 3108 fa ‘ls aici 089 HU
NISONIAS NISONIMS YOOG NAHM OM “ soars svi (20) O3SIVY SUBLOVEVHO ‘3dAL UBLOVUVHO 7 ~
sorsian | cauNON TAMA nouioonine ee 2uw/2N 30yNOLs SGML SNELSAS
40 OEINAS WNOLLWNYSINE ood ‘40d 883009 30 TOBMAS TWNOLLYNYALNI ‘ 40 TOBWAS TWNOLLWNYBINI
NEALMMEISS329¥ 40 TOBNAS TWNOLLVARELNI v ‘GAL YN it B CENA WON FHL40 ONIMS 3H NHLIM ONIGNYLS 40 $193780 ONIGNALOYd ONYIINNOONS O/M JONES HOWOUdAY AY SS210N3OWNOIS Sen as 8 aEaENWHO BON
= gh 4y 88000. AAT NS ‘SHOOTS TW di 'NOLVIS TWO HOLWATTS
TT SS senoooaysHNNd SBOE pg a CAL crmMaHOSs¥SeOIOD
aamnoaios syns —/ ia 2 “ALHSNIRVIONONSAVHOLSEOVINS %
; p——— 3 RAMI | i :
WORE “WHO HOLES NOISSINODONINNY — 2 Pee ‘SBL0N 1 2 7 ene : te
PH WLLINGNSTY NOLWONdeW ONINNYIG OF 1N03HOS S¥ COHSSYHL a "S3ONVUVSTO ® SLHOIBH ONLNNON SUNUXH z vOomd bal &. pe ee ee el ee el se =
t a ‘GAL Od SNOUWASTS SMUXES ONG OL 2 YTD 3 | 72 Sate P v0? Soe foe” & He
B BONN AL 'S301LN3A 8 3903 G3SMIOVY XIN bi NBL = ca0Nnow ™ = Vy - Te
(GH WLLINENSIY NOLWOMdeW ONINNIS Z \ = y ~
vgeaaaare = i vomescounarmiea | “SUIVLS LIXA ASN | *2,
NOUWOFdeY ONIN WY NOLLOE HOH 01 133M OL GOI IH t s . ge
woes ; reuguanyauam awe wml? 5 MOLVAS Ta BE
M4 @ ® aRevL 3003 ONIVETdOL Hsthta nud 40 3004 g
‘SNOISIAZH ‘IM30HS 40 TIWY HOLLOS 3AVH € gsn LON od
STULS OM SOOO SS¥I9 OFHANAL mls
ied ee 2 ‘AONAONAINA
‘WOd 13S NOISSINNGO ONINNY Id ‘ansst ‘SLNaMEUINOSY HLd30 =
MOIMALNI YOIMSLxS ‘HLOIM 40 310N 33S ‘NIV, “TOMAS SHINO STTV8S
LOrr6 VO ‘OAL WN NYS m9 cannon 38 Ts stoRNOD STL } su sea.onen aa 0,0 9, 3e- 78 1
13341S 9°S 1S HON Nin LLa)sovosadch SSaOWL DOUS 8

a8 Sb

‘Ss2800Y' BMW L95POME

N9BROS THR HLL E79 NIE IGOR

ev 2a 21 3 TIVHS TWH
‘34AL ONMH-TTVM IO BAL TWLS 40 14 Me

Nua wo W388 TWNRIN

Hsing Jo 30v4

ood 30 40109 IM svALNOD i

(01 310419 40 40109 aNv"T104I9 40 ¥OT]09

MASVELNOD OL JTONAL 40 YO109 319

HL NIM GNY NO aaSOamtaers TONNE
"WASLYTIMNOG SNES O215IN03 YHL lk —“

4

1
i
No} HLOIN 400d 40 NITABLNED a

‘a3 mndaH9s 3sWv¥iH10 SSTINN ENUM
“INOS JIBS SNS 289 4deN‘NOIS
|M.LS¥R4LNOD 01 UOT XSL OBSI.ZeHb

SVB NOIS HHL

NolLotastanr ony ALRIOMLNY
AG OBNOdeY SY TMEOL Olé CAVONVIS

AL XY tt B ORE ANVHD

20 MWh @ aaaNNOw uO casva $3003 —7

LSAAYVH

sd

‘ANT
woos
LvLi-vez or ‘0008-P6z 207
xe ‘0010,
1196 ewe
sor ues si0u=4,
oz ans, ceurmaaitory
ag e119 enles 3 OF nares

NWI

INI YO 1X3 © Te 10d ¥ CIOHSSYHL YOO

~~
arnoavos sys HSN »
=
cMNO3HOS SY OHS Sls
z\2

‘aENG3HOS S¥¥OON Gas

MORIaLXa MOIMALNI

‘TWAS /NSMLBVANOg 318ISS390"

Non akt 240882009 L3HOL
LINN OBNOD Wo SYBSNSASIO Ic
{OL R5N0D 1V3S 40 NOUVIOT

"41Y2c0 OL SIAN 30 94

f wwe

usin
SFONVYVI19 HOOT WYLSIY TIVLS-FIONIS J18ISS3IOV

NW

:
|

é
@ :
ONOLYATTETWISOOL NIH 1b - *
‘108 Z Z swraaeio
aw -— mwvevo
vu .zv01 g
NouvaonnocovsnewsznassioOY = 9
= y— seve aves
“YEO OL S430 ONS iN &
YO ONHONId 'ONIESWHO ~ a
HSU 34034 10N $300 sg 2k cy
AnusinaeMaoOOSONGRS 2 gs 2 2 58
'SaOSSIOO 1F10L 8 23 Z gs
‘SaunixU ONIBNTTS TTaISS=00¥ BS 5 ea
OSIM BNINOM AL 25 = 32
JONOLYASNISOOLY 33} 3 8
S310" 23 z
oa
akv'018 20m,
NowolwulovHsme

2
GL YOO NOIS WHLS3Y XASINN - SOYNOIS

Va

saan sms —“

‘AL HSIN SEYIONONSAVHOLSEOVIUTS
AL'OSWIGHOSSYSHOTOO —*b
'S310N

au's20U3
© 3003 Casnava XW YN

Nowovosranr ©NAVH AUBONLAY

‘AIFRAISS200¥ =0 TOTS THNOUYAINI

Nowovasnn” ONYH AUMOKL
‘he Q03U S¥ 0 035 LON S1ALITIRSS300¥
40"108NAS TWNOLWNRGIN (SAV LOB)
Nols 01319020 40 434N30 4¥ 21901
‘GRONENVIOORS

ng WNoUgo ‘STOBNAS TVW STVH

Wood 30 40109 IM SHLNOD
(01 31969 40 80109 anv "710419 40 YOT09
‘MASVUUNOD OL 3TORRLL 40 YOT09 "STOO
[HL NHHLIM GNY NO G2S0aRae8 3M
"WRLYTINO SNOIS O11 SINO3O YL

No) 9 HicIN o0d 40 SNMEALNAD

‘BNTREBING9 OL WN 44.09 NIN 32.98

wa zh

3 >

vast un > i
pa! oa 33 3
3/2 rr 5 a2
3 atl 52
/SOWNOIS NO GSWSLNIO SYSLLITSTIVES 73437 AV LS al 1727 LW 108 24
suonouut — |S] 'cuorouiins —ox
salon 4, 3 3,
save ancowtay 40 145¥ 2 |e |2 G ;
Sirnvnsuvls 0 do aaR090 a4 a5
ixg07EAsoNuLWoCN sszoovsoouon ||~| _s$a00v sou
wis cana Acs cus ais
7 mn 88
25

11 HaLavio 969 4
$vaH{O0 THYHS 29¥NOIS ONT

“TWA INBOWTGY ISSRAVSN

000 40 SUIS HOI" Iv ONAN

‘o's WL NOIS 31¥OOT NUIT

‘OSGNNOW 40 C5N0G 34 HHS
S100'ScewaRS 3834: 40 SNOW
‘SHLO N GORY 63 Tava WBA}
‘0350138 TWMS 3TIVUR 230
‘ntd0s11¥9 O3LO¥INOD ITA
‘aNTOwDDOWE IKON
No SRS LOVAVHO MANE HO GNNOWSHOVS
‘V0 NO LHOTT SHINS ONNOWDNOVE
‘MEHL MM 1SLNOO TI¥HS STOBMUS
"YSMALDEEVED HSIN SSVI NON ave
“TWvaS aNnOwOvOvE UHL ¥ STORIUAS
"QUELOYAHD LSPALNOD ONY HSIN

“HOISH SAELOVENVHO BL 40 40
‘ugh 38 TVS. YLT 3evORBAEN
SO SCINNOINL SEINYOHL BORIS
“ABSIT 35VONCdN 30 LH AL
4000015 GY MF 99 S10. BLL
"38 YOHdeN 40 HLOIAN 38H SINOS
-3A¥H TH SNOIS NO SHIDEYHD
SNOUAOIMEHSLIWED

"WOT38 OALVCAGN SV 38 TIS S3Z18
YELOVENHO GIVE SAS BILD

“¥MRIOA HOH NE 3B TS

sya BH waldvHo 989m JoNMMANOD

N3THYG7 3OyYO WNROSTVO

AB CallvaiNOOD¥ SeLOREVHO

2359 HS as SNS 34 THHS

$3 MHLZE: G3SIva 38 TIVHS SNOIS
NOSESLOVEIVHD dALUSLOWUVHO —*b

‘SALON 39¥NOIS


--- page 115 ---
zieeo'aivawwansy | VINHOSITIVS ALINNOS OALVN NVS OALVW NVS 30 ALID
O8LE-LE8/SZ6 91912 '39Y- SNIO9I0'3 $3)

eet >? 7 ISSYLS @. HINOS Ie AAAENS SIHDVEYODOdOL

SNOISIAT

(1334S OMaNd JIM .0Z ) =| fa} N =| A Vv L S UY I 4

© 7138 ovd

© 738 Ovd

AMANO AWManRIa | SKY [08 SS nN €) CHa] mot “ a Cpe
ns

73a!
Ovd O'OM  3-1r,1h8¢N

SNIGTING X4

NIWA WLW

walaW YaLVM,

AWNOIS D144VUL

XO@ ONILHOTT 133U1S

¥aLaW ONDRIVd

X09 STWLDITa 8 SVD D1dIDvd

STOHNYW

id,

VauV ONDVd / JIS! AO
SL3YONOO

aATWA SVD

ANVUGAH Ud

M,.00,02.1¥N
M.00,02.TVN

NOLLDANNOD LNSWLUvdaG 3uId

aay ONDRVd / JIS! ARO
SUBYONOD

xog D1¥L9313

40 Nva1D

1298:
2921

NISva@ HOLD
XO NOISIAITAL J18v9

Nivug vauy

V3UVONDRVd/LIAd OV

3NT1 AWVGNNOS ALWadOUd

aNa931

LAAIYULS

ONIGTING X43

qIVOS OIHdvad

( La3Ls OTaNd JaIM .02 )

/00'SE 4,00,0.87N

W.

(-SanivA HLGIM ~ 1351s oTIEnd )

ANNAAYV
NIMQ1V4

"AONZOY ONMAIASY GNY S33NIONS SHL AB G3dAVIS ONY CBNDIS SSINN NOLOMMLSNOD O04 LON ONY AYVNINTISYA SEV SNYTd TI


--- page 116 ---
00°L9

‘SEIN 15H

SNOILIGNOO
ONILSIXS

‘SVN 13H

NOILONYLSNOD
404 LON

ve0-12

ins amos

snoIsiase

-31¥0 50881
snes

LObv6 VO ‘OSLV NYS
LSSYLS 8°S LS

LaAuLS aS ZS

‘SSSRIGQY 8 SYN 103F0¥a

LSAAYVH

‘nan

_v.

sua3Nn

dOOMYa HS ay

gizs-09L ste oogs-Lez sty
we er

Litre emopien
cosouesy ues svova1y,
aumpayyaay
re

NM ALYBdO¥d LNAOVTOY ld)

ANN ALWSd08d

cozta ta)

— oxi (a)

owes one oena onusna CT

SALONA

= 04 (a)

0294 (3) +4]

vee (a)

orsi(a)

ova)

ovso(a)

TRANSIT CENTER WAY

a9)

NOZONGYONaIND MOTBALS)_|
over

l a

ossrl3)—-wowooos

SNN3AV LSL

nal Feary

Se m0)

ONIGTING x3

at rola)
eee a poe
= 06a
1
1

|
4 |
06903) ont - 05 (3)

ogre) osae (a)

ONIGIING X3

oveeta

ae Ss
|
=
|
|

SOUTH B STREET

a, wrorwooas + 4

63)
'

po 066 (2) 4! on ia) = Fo ar a)

aNa937

dhe izneee ep


--- page 117 ---
TTR TT TNT RT TTT GT NGL TOR TT TT TOT HL TI

+ dO 4b 1a3HS
“Cast 7
a —
mn Bs © 2 ob o . . ee gtd “ . . . GNI Awd
[o} wIVOS olHdvaD . . — ~ —— a im Wonog
gz cm - o | Sasa dees | lL 3
g fe} fo} — UMN NT aL 9566 3—
i a oan a 1
go AS nee _|
ak L
ate ZO : i =
cee om — z af
ge Oo oe ta Fb ga 1 88h og
22 @
Fy 22 ™ Ear ! wano ana =
SEA a> | NOILY3O1 HIN SIEISSO¢
3e8 = | HOS
ge ce
od am
ee Gz a | 7
ax i ‘MOU LA OL
—1.—
m 3NN3AV LSL
- 1
w Ww Pa \ whe
_
ANYEGAH Bld (d)-
ou pate = nL =
"UNOLNOD HONIN (3) i 7 |
wnowcowormm() a i . ig
9 ~ oti
3 “UNOLNOO LONI (a) ——. 9
can n . oe a L__} fp
28 n > _wRoLNOD wore a) —n. =
ao a ~
83 ed os
2 a s Ws
Sm io} -kavannos T20uva TWNIORIO ee oe oe es = 5S wie 7
2 % SG sett
“ABMONNOB 130¥Vd O38040¥e —— ee ee 5 2 E I,
= Fra] =
ad oO DR
ang937 “ lets Ee of =
oO n
; z o 7
-wynauoL stay snarusnray 101 casoeo%e
HL 40 3018100 03147007 Si (S040038 TWilsdO 40 93E 30¥e 1S) HOOK NIHFSZESS ta =
"ON LN3WNDOG Ni OIHSIIIV1S3 B61 'y2 YIGWSLAIS GIQYOOTY) LNINISVS INMTdId SVD “2 7 ond
“NIVNZY OL SI ONY LNBNLSNPOY =
-LO1G3SOdO'd 3H1 40 30110 A31¥907 SI (SGHODIH TWIDI440 40 #2) 3O¥d ‘981 HOOK
[NI O-ZL622 ‘ON LN3WNOOG NI G3HSIEV1S3 B06) "OC HOWWN G30YOORY) ANSNASYS AVN “} .
‘SSLON INSWaSVA penne |
~|E
‘SLN3NZAONdIMI ZOVLNOR ONY ‘SSLLTILN an ——4
on “somvuc oncvuo assodous 01 GRLYTRUNOLLMNROSM YOY SNA TO LO30UE IBS a . a al
oe veo “hoa AB esis Se WANLOSIMONSES SUNN -0 SNOINANIOWOLEIONOD¥OS “2 _~ Tl
wanes SIV LEO
AS LOCI = VEN SLISTWLOL
‘vEOZ ON L93PONd t = \
‘S3LON TWWH3N39° =
ocorst- 100
YSSWNN TAD8Vd SYOSSASSV = i
cous 29a) =. kh soe 4's 00e8'v =v | : 1
osers04135| aosun O11s6 vo ‘ooo HS 3SWLS NOSIS NIVW3Y OL z | |
sextuSeans oN NOSSO COOMESHS $ 130uvd ONLLSIXE ~ L
worsrsu [avo | on
YSBNIONA AID
M oy =
se7-97(019) I
0196 ¥O ‘ONY TA¥O.
00h} BLINS “SNINSAW GNVED 8b
(O71 'SIYNLNIA 3LIT3O LANOG WSLO
USCIAIGENS ONY YSNMO - Wy | 7
fal
&
31108 01 10N + F's se =V {
avW ALINDDIA GALVAMOSNOO 38 OL _ m at
VIN ALINISIA | 139d ONLISIXA | ~~ |
020-rS1-¥€0 :NdV Te \ fe
" | d1 SYANLYWd Hi oo »
ATING NVRIINZI 40 SONVT iE
WES
= te
ono
222 5 ow
gree
B8FO Ww
O22
gee = I I
Bo8s |
He)
Sze
ae z
ge 4%
ee on ° |
D
s ao



--- page 118 ---
00°ZO

‘SEIN 15H

SOVNIVYC ONY
ONIGVYD LdaO0NO0

‘SVN 13H

NOILONYLSNOD
404 LON

ve0-12

snoIsiase

-31¥0 50881
snes

LObv6 VO ‘OSLV NYS
LSSYLS 8°S LS

LaAuLS aS ZS

‘SSSRIGQY 8 SYN 103F0¥a

LSAAYVH

_v.

‘nan

SU33NIONS

dOOMUaHS ay

gizs-09L ste oogs-Lez sty
we er

Litre emopien
0082 svouayu,
aumpayyaay
re

(NY S3ONYNIGHO 907 ‘SLIME

SNOLLVONEWNOORY
OTIVHS SNIGEO TE

‘WSLEIM43¢ 193708 3HL LW SNOUIGNOO ONUSHXS OL WYO:NOD THM ONGYYD BYMUNS

'36¥d NOIS3O 3HL ONIN

(934071230 36 OL S3OVUD TWNId TWrLdZONOD ZEV NMOHS SSILMUN ONY S¥OVED GBSOdORE “|

OHNE AS (a)

NOLWH38 INYNADONOAH (a)

ASI ZyNVuO

34078 3408108

3a01s 3avOsauvH

NOUYASTE 10d8 3e¥OSLIOS

NOUWAaTa 10d 3avosaMvet

‘NINO BIND

YLNVTd NOLINALSUONR (a)

aavosaNyi {al

3N0Z ONIGYOTIe)

BML)

nv guna (a)

‘shod aalvonnaLL (a)

ANIA)

sng 40 304

‘un 40 ova la)

NN ALwBd0¥d LNBOVFY (a)

SN ALY3d0UM fd)

S3LON

ow 24

orem sa

onan
°)
LY

rs

aNa937

fe en ene ~ATTHTH

206654)

“Ureess)
4 4 ANNAAV LS { E

TRANSIT CENTER WAY

6S

zee SI |

ore sy

os66s:

1586S,

05

O53

aT

we

rt 84
“aes
astniss
oven sa
[ | | -wmss
at
-
o oly fst
— kK
Ls ih im
ai Moe | |? fe
HOE
Iroc aus Lee 5
— fina
oron se Prt)
4 r
ease veuy — =
_ HEY carat ss =
a E 5 i 5
on
ert
ores
a
oi 4 a go A
a [ : i)
in :
(es) mse vos
vase
=a 4 olf} |

eee

(ou yaoznoo

srwiaas

ATTTTTTTTT
["
t

ee

1 epanserro000 rape Hour ne G0u 2 yes az BAF zmaNeD CYNON LRN OOPS OK OLE Hem eaLcIA

whe izneiee ep


--- page 119 ---
ol Ae)

NV1d ALIS
LNAWAAOUdWN
LAAYLS Ld3ONOO

‘SVN 13H

‘SEIN 15H

NOILONYLSNOD
404 LON

‘ates
w ‘AB O3OIH9
os “ANAC

amos

ave Womaosae

snoIsiase

-31¥0 50881
snes

LObv6 VO ‘OSLV NYS
LSSYLS 8°S LS

LaAuLS aS ZS

‘SSSRIGQY 8 SYN 103F0¥a

LSAAYVH

‘nan

_v.

sua3ni

svova1y,
aumpayyaay
re

SSLONASY

40 82} 30¥d 921 YOOE NI -Z16LZ ON LNSINNOOG NI GSHSMEVISS INSH3SVE AVENE *b

S3LON

-LNSWa Savanna (d)

c

‘a34301sno9) aLve9 aRL a)

NT VRHOSNOO

‘NINO Bind —

aavosaNyi {al paged
3N0Z ONIGYOTIe)
onan
BML) fed (Ce)
WA NY
nv guna (a)

‘shod aalvonnaLL (a)

ANIA)

sng 40 304

NN ALwBd0¥d LNBOVFY (a) ——e
SN ALY3d0UM fd) —--—--

‘TRANSIT CENTER WAY

Lossy 11 we

ANIM HSLLNO LISNVEL

ech oe

SOUTHB STREETS:

A NIV,
‘organo (a)

My

aNa937

ar LL 9 EY ENN A

rasan nce a me sanz WE aS. NE

whe izneiee ep


--- page 120 ---
0S°2OD

2ISENON SHS

SAILMILN Ld3ONO9

‘SVN 1334S

NOILONYLSNOD
4yO4 LON

veo

ns
ns
ns
“id

‘aio WomaROsae

SNorstase

"vO SnSSI
‘nse

LObv6 VO ‘OSLVIN NYS
LSSYLS 8°S LS

LAaYLS € 'S ZS

‘SSeRGQY ¥ SYN 193FORE

LSAAYVH

_v.

‘nano

wor ‘ssgeuiSuepoon.

Su33NIONS

dOOMYa Sy

sous,
amosiary
oo)

Vv

“vasa LNaNHOVONONA
Bund V 40 18a SY CBINBINNOOG ONY 03 1¥130 36 THM MO" 3HL NI NIYAORONN NOLNALSYOI

‘ASOUNORd 38 01 vO $30UNOSRA YALWIN ALVIS 2d $3OUN9O FRING HSVEL
“NAG CEN

»
°
303001 $328 TONSA 7
+

‘d2N HLIM, C3LYNIONOO9 38 OL SUNN TWN WNLe3ONOO SHV NNIOHS SALLMLLN G3SOdO8d

SSLON

Vv

csuvoorae 38 o1 zuntonaus (a) 8

nivwas o1sanionausia) (Si

JNM SNOLWOINNWNOOTTAL (3) OL LOINNOD {Ol
catmonyseo. messoisaowisna CE
rmmuoiuenizausowisna (
cancouuasciuenaausowsea (Z
eanamoawvaroooseo. (&

syniomoa iouioane

vom saivn(soLioamnco (F

wn sexo anes hun 01 oan0o CE

saanveamsois souioaico (2

v8 HOI

‘SBLONAS ALLA

va HONS

Bel NYWIURIOLS ed)

sodasta) .
ANYOAH aI o
‘GSNOGNYaY 38 OL 3NT ALT (3 FRR HHH
canons 3801 ALUN) x
NO NTO YBNI ANELINYS a cos
nova wana) ir)
‘904 SNoL.voINoWaHOOaTaL (a) .
0d 4a NOLYER (A ©
3d WAL NOLEN) wa val
‘904 MALIA Bel) .
Bald WIM BH) —— 0 ms
‘0d ant) -
Bad LWIA) —sn »—
s0d8¥9 la) +
NNT XIANIS ASWLINNS fe) ss ss
‘0d ouoaTa fd .
HONS ORLO3T3 [a —: 3 a

SBLNYd NOLNGLB4OI8

sarosoNla)

) a O

a

anya aun (a)

‘sanoa cay )

a

ung 40 39v4 (2)

uno 40 ¥OVE fd)

NIT ALN3d0¥d INZOWFOY [a

INIT ALesa04d (ed) —-- ee

‘aN3937

TRANSIT CENTER WAY

nwi09

\ TG sosonoana

ta U
= — yy
Vv

[ I

z oN ‘d3W HUM G3LYNIGEOOD NOLLVNINLINGO HOS dS
: © Se01 900 ssl os NMG MALS
ah E
i | S a 5
z —d
: {+
— — 448 LVN M9
—(e cainron
z
or | im
gemmemay FI
(oss ovsnsno onsxe
| t P| Cs H

c

o

Vv

a

Eo.

MSINSAREE
monaxove at

xoa wamas (9 —

<i
5

owns —

uss —

sncnvano ss (ip —

saan wan (oh

suazan asivn Co

annsvoon,
ouxovasypsve
ouvo0Ts¥ 9:

SOUTH B mes

<

;

pare xo00) raps ne c00z2 ere az EaPSaLnUn LsRONO CROPS ONT OH MRM SU HELIN

Wid @veus kznuues sep Ie


--- page 121 ---
00'€D LCL]
-
NV1d LNSWS9VNVW juoune1 fo
YSLVMNYOLS LC
ALIS-NO Ld3ONOO ——

ses —a (/)

fd ao os 0 no

(au deg Gyoay
Bulpuog ajqoauiag

= 10 001, 498 ONDUYd 3OV4UNS ON ‘sauov 260 3409 VW AMODELWO
-wi5u MHOINWOO
IGSYS: Lda4o (%) STUNLONYLS ae
' :
aasn | 31avMOTI | _LNSNVIWéa¢ Aa ond (ow) vatsy 3NOZ cOSIEr
NOILONYLSNOD lol WWIOL | ais tOsovaanog | 20¥I4NS | snoinesadt Tiyoay Ts) 0317
ajqoauieg | ajqoauuaduy
y 0 4 L ON SNOILIGNOO LOSPOUd TWIOAdS €°D ALIS-NO € 8 LS} ‘SUOIPUOD BUNS!<g OUS-UO a BIST
anus | eEEEPPRGiiiaidd
= AB a030 _ _l _ NY
- ‘BNA - _ _ - =] ~
VEOH UBGINNN LOSPOud 7 ~ a a
ner SC _ = —
as _ — as
<<8 ae —
—
wea awos a
3901s HLIM YSLNV1d NOLLN3LAYOIS SOVYHS-LV —_——
Es _———
: a= —
OOM NIVUO J1SVINHIe —s
I1SS¥10 Huds a
cNOUvOLIDS 338108 yong
—
—> —
—
—
.
Hd30 | (
SxtNog.9
wnaase cav0e338 ‘yr ase vouviaTs - | | | | | =
wrvngais ‘ONY 20¥-4NS : D = 2 Ey cn Pa
{ pouiog "31 Safes -
san ane . .
etclt : . i [es] o o aa i
vt, |
4 =a1 sos eat f
@YNO HLIM BIN Id NOWNSLauOId sows") et
Ne
yoou nia savaMad I q
iesviones0 Nt
"SNOLIWOIIOAdS 33S XIN OS: t
esa
reroeend—Wrousare04 126 NOSSIMODONNITE > i
rerasogo re TvLuenszuNOUVONVONNI 7 =
SZORIEONL (08 TWLUNGNSTY NOUWOITddV ONINNYTG © !
i210 DeTVLUNENSRUNOUNONSAVONNINE—T =
ferzoino ——WALNSZUNOUVONWAVONNNE oo
maul oor SNE Os a Va al
ava WoTaSSO ss30 E iT} .
ma Bas _ 2 i
ores nnaena Poa covosszad.Z anv 39v-ins ~/| BE
ited nouoesn | = s\ a
LObb6 VO ‘OAL NYS uno sawn 2 2
IFFULS 2° LS ec i= i
7)
i
<| \
LASYLS 8S LS Bit
40 31Y041N803HL Jo 313401 Nonds a30NOO WaONONE AOL WIsNEO
ceau0av¥snmusoatoaa f
“enawocoy 03st 36 Sane 3st ‘CaN was
SINOIS20.103"0bid 3H SY “TNL.2ONOD SI NMOHS ADZLYRLIS ZONVT A100 82. VAWIRDLS o i
3 3 Sa ONY GONE s4ON WBLVAVTUOLS1V9KLO1 8 103FOWA HL 3OUNSIN'SHL 2
ISAAUNVH rscuou unre ; |
aly ys 341 aod sunaeznosy aH SNR gos SODIUM SINGESMSUNS SIL yy
up S3LON \ i
. I
sansno ol | * |
won siesuibuapoonays eam SNOIWInoTWO 20 30ISiNO VEE ||
(O16 vo ‘oostued ves | \\ i
JOOS UOISSIVY SPST io t
susamens wee -ainionas wo 3avosaNw1
dOOMUaHS ay i |
ee 1
advOSONVH oe . fi ' ! i
- I 1 ® i
oom d¥OSLIOS
9125-88 Str 0086-182 She it
xe N10. VV LNBNUVEUL, | ' I 1 I |
BOWE, 1 rill
"Oto tas su 008 | ' '
soo emanany
i) 1 ny —
satvannos vae soma — f—
" ' \ i a
GNgOS7 | | ‘ommmne,

neu ane coel ars vA 122 HL 2ARL Na HORN OM AELIOLS LARD COOMA 0 GK OHO HAR TRAL 220

sepia

Miser weve


--- page 122 ---
LOD

aseNNN LBS

NV1d LNAWS9VNVN
YaLVMAYOLS
ALIS-440 LddDNOO

‘SNM L334

NOILONYLSNOD
4YO4 LON

ats
- ‘AG OBHOBHO
- ‘Aa NAVE
reo SBIUNN 1937084

‘swos

enateu0 — TWAOMds Od LSS NOKSSHWICOONINTS §

PH TLUNENSRA NOUVONSAONINNTS

seozeDi [CaTWLUNIENSRS NOLVONISAY ONINNTE ©

ezozszwo A TLLNTENSTANOUWONAAVONINNYTE 7

szrz0ve0 “WLUMENS3S NOLWorsaVONINNE
zenzous NoWornds¥ ONIN

“ayo vonassa WT

Noise

v0 3N881

30881

Lovr6 VO ‘OALVN NYS

LASYLS B'S LS

LAAYLS €'S ZS

ssesuaay 9 3n¥W93rONd

LSAAYVH

W

SU3aNIONS 30

dOOMaa HS Ey

nano

olze-ees sir coas-reL sir
vey HO

bite enuoweo.
oospuesy ues siouow
20014 iy amnoaiany
wong oud 091 a)

NWI

wes Sos

YALNV Id NOLLNSLAYOIS am’)

woou Nivag evansd

[ WoNvoucsis ne 8

bssssuvn
fLitesc ontcnog
wanaino nv

5URUDNOD: I quvoasnz TNS
sonnaeo gan

a |
wwraeas oun

HIN NOUD=LO¥e
Td WO BND LP

snvig

‘nONvaNDDO |
40 SLVOIJILN3O SHI 30 3NSI HL Ol YORic CZCNOORY CNY GZONONE FBOLNYIAWEO

‘MONIaNOOOY G3SIA34 38 THM Sdn 3S3HL O3NHSH MAHLAN
‘SIN9IS30 193708d 3HL S¥ "¥Ld3ONOD SI NMOHS ADBLVMAS 3ONYTeHOD BLYAMIUOLS
"Sai¥@ QNY GMT ONISN 4SONTA WALVINMUOLS VBL OL SI L93°OUd HL JO LNBINIGHL —Z

Wyi90%d NOLNSAZRd NOLLATIOM WANA
‘OBLVW NYS 3HL Os SINBMGINOSY 3HL ONTIISTN NOS SOOHLIN SIN3S3NA3H NVI SIAL

SALON

NOUSRIO MoT —

ANaWanwe aTaWaNeAe

SNOWY IngTWO 40 30ISLNO VERY

‘BAALOMALLS NO BavOSONVT

‘9NSso¥o 390R88

aavosavi oF B

savosls08

x Sa

NN ALAdOud —--— - -

-ivannoa vaety Sound ——_—_—

aNa931

‘@0uUe||dUIOD aAeUIaYY

uOUaIa101g

uoua}aJ01g

ujesy quawyeas| UoUE;aI019

(fs) aounyjdwio anjousayy
Jos papinodg Juauyoad S6a9xZ

quaunoasy Jo poyay

[-svo'tr | ev __—i|__ses‘tr_ J ta]
spott | 6p | ses'tr [IS HO

(fs) vay (fs) vaay (fs) vay
1030 ajqoauiag | ajqoawsadwy

SUOIPUoD BUNISIXg 2H1S-4O GB 3ST

TRANSIT CENTER WAY

—_ ~ ANIM =

SOUTH B STREET

=>

epe

rsa reco seo Acie 122 CH ACO MN ALVOLS LAND COOMA OCH HBT oR MAL HCC

Miser reoewe


--- page 123 ---
00°V9

SON ISHS

AGNLS
ALIOVdV9 NIVYG
WHOLS Ld3ONO9

SANYN 1334S

NOILONYLSNOD
4yO4 LON

‘ans
va ‘AB 039039
od ANAC

aos

zz02 91,

“avo ——_—wonawossa WT

snoIsiase

NolvaNedy oMNad

sva.3nssi
snes

LObv6 VO ‘OSLV NYS
LSSYLS 8°S LS

Las5uLS €'S ZS

‘SSSRIGQY 8 SYN 103F0¥E

LSASAYVH

_v.

‘Nano

woo saeuiSuep0onuaus nat

SU3SNIONS NOISI

dOOM¥aHS ay

gizs-09L ste ogs-Lez sty
we er

Litre emowen
‘cosouess ues ovo.
001s ip aumoayyaiy
twang suid o9t Pas

MWe

oy

4)

"SNOUIQNOD ONULSIX3 3HL NVHL H3NO7SI3LIS 3HL WOYS G3LVANEO MOS WV3d TLL 3HL'43/A3MOH '3NNBAV 1St NO 03140073 LS/N NOUO3NNOD LIS 3HL 133418 6 S NO NVC NNOIS V 30 Z0N3SEV 3HL NANO,

$60 8 win
BAY IS} NONISVE Snows Z-O3HSAELM
MO “ENNWHO#I3SHS # “ . we wees) ‘snovwaan ISNO C380c0¥a
(si) ,4J4ONNY (su) ANSI9I4S509
seta LN3A3 eer NOILVYLNSONOD AdONNY Gs) svauy WG
WYOLS YAO} SO SINIL FOVESAY

SNOILLVINOTWO MO14 NIVHG WYHOLS 48 LS SNOLLIGNOD dasOd0ud

O25.b SOS

SNOILIGNOD GaSOdO0ud

aa LN

RVONTOS G3HSRELVI

NN HON

Bald NIYHO WHOS (a)

20808 (a)

SOHN aS (al

_YOLVVdAS INVNAGONOAH ()

LAIN ZOWNIFHO (a)

TRANSIT CENTER WAY

| SNNFAW LSI —
8 ——
f
o AE
$49 S60 = 0 G3SOd0ud a
Tdansoarem i

aNa937

—---

<q

"NINO 3ON3YBIIY YO NINOS
SUNLOMALSYeN NEO
‘NOW MOS SINT NVA WeIOLS

INULIN
y

‘SOUTH B STREET

=>

dis). | |
TOUT

0 : : : ra SnaLsAS WANA OL NNR WOL
BIS. ONSIE E sons
veo wvaaveia.s 0 e ¢ : = asSuaL
Selec 607 ‘SNOINaN
ssasiowsa : sons
velvonnaara.s 9 ® ¢ : hese
o1noW 138 siezs sow
(si9) 44ONNU. (suw) ANI0134309
NOILY9O1 uyjul
SOyNIVEG NSA een NOILVYLNSONOD AdONNY Gs) svauy va
WYOLS YAO} SO 3INIL AOVESAY

SNOILVINOWWO MO14 NIVHG WHOLS 8 9 LS+ SNOILIGNOD ONILSIXS

=. SOS

SNOILIGNOD ONILSIXS

TRANSIT CENTER WAY

ANNAAY IS}

849 #2'0= 0 ONUSS
@O3HSUaLVM

SOUTH STREET

‘S40 #20 = 0 ONUSIXS
| OSHSUaLWM

|
|
|

Wp aserceso0 rape ior master mL tPLoABLEOO ENF HS Re NRC HDL LeU eR Sa OLA

ep

weber ieneee


--- page 124 ---
00°SD

‘SEIN 15H

SISATVNV
ONINYNL LdaO0NO0

‘SVN 13H

NOILONYLSNOD
404 LON

‘ates
es ‘AB O3OIH9
os “ANAC

ais amos

Noluvarddy ONIN

“anos

snoIsiase

-31¥0 50881
snes

LObv6 VO ‘OSLV NYS
LSSYLS 8°S LS

LaAuLS aS ZS

‘SSSRIGQY 8 SYN 103F0¥a

LSAAYVH

wv

lwor'ssgauiSuepoomeus NAN

‘nan

SU3SNIONS NOISI

dOOM¥aHS ay

gizs-09L ste oogs-Lez sty
we er
bits enone
cosouesy ues
001s ip
twang suid o9t

OL = «13 IvOS

310d STOIHSA SNE GALVINOILYV (8)

(iomuia) ei6uy Buu
awi} 49d

90U0109|9 punos
613

u
ajoiue,, ubiseg sng pay
on ze
ae e =
4 | |
| © © 1S)
oor

b= sb 3TWOS v
0S¢ SLNOY SNE HOS GASN 3WsONd JTOIHSA SN 15-07

oan
NYS 40 ALIO 3HL AB G3S0dOMd SHV LVHL AN3WN3/OMdMI SANA IS! LOVIN LNOM 195FO%E
HL AG O380404d LNBVEAAONANI AVM 40 LHOWY G4S0d0¥d 3HL HLGIN GIvS 40 SUNSMUSNGY
‘ANY’ Os SNVRLIGYS HLA SNLYNIGROO 3 TMA OFLA NYS 40 ALIO'SNV'Id LNSISACHAII
INNBAY 1S1 O51¥IV NYS 40 ALO 83d SI SNYa SHI NONMOHS HLM NOTINASNG
‘62 BNO SNYSLMYS
‘OLY NYS 4O ALIO 40 ANULWINSSSRiCAH 3E OL SI 3A ICHL 3TOIHEA SNe 14°09 CNY 85 31ND
‘SNVELINYS O3L¥M NYS 40 ALIO 40 INLLVINSSIUGSY 3801 SIAAV'ANAL TTOWSASNG LOOP “t

S3LON

sng 100809

‘sng 100347

MSLNId NOLINALBUONS

advosanvn (al
3Noz 9NavOTIe)
onan
SUL ld) f:3 ©)
wy LY
ainva gana (a)

‘shod aalvonnaLL (a)

ANIA)

sng 40 304

‘un 40 ova la)

NN ALwBd0¥d LNBOVFY (a)

SN ALY3d0UM fd) —--—--

aNa937

cen tere ~ ATTN

x

1) iy Osi pom gy
_—

=
— ss
one <— <2
I

—

Naz Hovousay SxoZ NOUN
cour toe —
ANNAAV LS —a
—

—

TRANSIT CENTER WAY

IVLI vt

MPA

SOUTH B STREET

=>

rseeu ane eoel ape FUREY ez HEL 2APH ENS AT SNL LEONE DOORS AERP aU OLA

eo 0

webzine


--- page 125 ---
00°07

ASRNON 13H

WVYSVIG

J9VdS NadO
Vv a

NOILONYLSNOD
404 LON

anes

oo ‘AB OBNO3HO
MA. ‘A NAEC
ovtiozzz eeNON L93rOde
arwos

AAV LSuld

hs

‘

AS 6911

AS 969)

060°8€"22 OWWS Y3d XONINDS TVS ONY ONIYdS
HL NO Wd2 ONY NOON N33ML3¢ NMS NI SOVdS Nd

FOWdS N3dO WLOL

(vMaals

2uZe210—WHOLdEY HO 138 NOISSINNOD ONINNd
veozeso ‘pe WLINenszu NOUWONdY ONINN
ezizout ‘ WLUINEnSzu NOUWaNddY ONINN
‘e WLUNENSRE NOLWONddY ONINN

“TWLUINNS3E NOLVONde¥ ONIN

OL LN3OWPCW HLGIM .b2) 3OVdS NAdO C3Y3AOO

060°8€'22 OWNS Yad XONINOA TW ONY
ONIYdS FHL Wd2 CNY NOON N34ML38 NAS NI FOVdS NAdO

Nolivorddy ONIN
a ne
swoIss

veozeaso ‘suvo 3nss1
Pe WLUINGNSRS NOUVOFad¥ NNN S88 4S Ore)

LOrv6 VO ‘OSLWN NYS
LSFYLS 2° LS

AS 999)
LASYLS 2S LS
AS 299
LSAAYVH
4" AS 6911
ey azeidmwm
0802 VEE'EDS
AS 9b
AS 62S ly

FOWdS N3dO dIYIAOD

GSYINDAY SAOAV SI LWHL JOVdS NAdO WLOL

(102%$2) 4S 00S ‘d

(1x99) 4S 297 0

(61X82) 4S Z€S 8

(9x22) S291 'V
AINOYd FOVdS NAdO WLOL

QAYSAOO SI LWHL JOWdS NAdO GAGIAOYd

060°8822

OWNS Yad XONINOA TIv4 ONY ONINdS SHL NO Wd? ONY
NOON N33ML39 NNS NI 3OWdS NAdO (A3YINDIY JO %0)
‘(Y3UY FO144O 4O %1) JOVdS N3dO daYINOIY

‘WAU JO1450 TWLOL

sizs-eeL sty
vey

Lite euowen
cosiuely UES

ool iP
joons suid 09

o0gs-Fez sty
20m

sous
aunponuary
nes

NWI

HLIM NIW .0-S% SAVH OL 30VdS NAdO
SINAWSYINDIY JOWdS NAdO 060'8€'22 OWWS Y3d

SNOILVINDTWO JOVdS NAdO

sszor/
= 99% 'Q—
8 Vv

4S 008 =
E oexsz"a—

=>

NG IS 791 = 9X2



--- page 126 ---
40°01

ASRNON 13H

1uOd3e LSidOsUy

‘SNM L3H

NOILONYLSNOD
404 LON

anes
oo ‘AB OBNO3HO
MA. ‘A NAEC
ovtiozzz eeNON L93rOde
arwos

ZO WHOA 20 135 NOISSIAMOD ONIN §
e200“ RBAVLLUNENSRENOLIVONdAY ORIN»
ezozeuLh ——FTWLNENSSEINOLVONGAVONINNS
szozh2u0 ——TMLNGNSSRINOLVONGEVONINS
zszouno “WiLINENS3E NOLVONSEY ONT
asin NOLWONIde¥ ON

rn Ze
svotsuet

veozscsa sivoanss
> TwLumans3esNOUvON dav OMNIS S81
LOrv6 VO ‘OSLWN NYS

ABFYLS 2°S LS

LAAYLS aS ZS

‘SeeROY ¥ WYN 105FO¥E

LSAAYVH

od

‘Nara

ey azeid-mwm
0802 VEE'EDS

sizs-eeL sty o0gs-Fez sty
vey er

Lite euowen
cosiuely UES sous,
ool iP aunponuary

joons suid 09 nes

NWI

gi 40g 0b6eg

81096 vO ‘vo

‘0101 ¥0g Od - 977 sIsHOGNY BuTINsU9Q YoreUOHY wy

181086 vo wowed 0101 x08 Oi - OTT SHORY BuNMIOD erEUON, wy

raydey.y W295
1880] sardadg “VSI

vs
‘quawig|ddng jeuoroy soideyD worso,y pO0Z ‘WouutIssy dnosp pue

‘wid “000Z ‘suNINDUOGLY JO AIBI90s feUONEUIDIUT 71 KoALS poswuddy wuDJe 40.4 BPI “VSL

‘910Z ‘amnauOqay Jo Ais!90g jeuoreUDY "1 “UBFEdUIEY
‘uompa puosos ‘wonanusuos Sump soauy SurSounpy “koqiwus “sewoy,, seBpy pur ‘q]oy “HA

uu “610Z ‘uonE20ssy Ansnpuy axe) 904,
‘yeuseiaioag :HN ‘Auopuopuoy “(¢ ung (uonanasuo> pur ‘wawdojoraq aus “Bune
‘aug Suing sqnuys pue ssary jo waUrSeueyy) saonioesg prepuerg : TuaUIaeuEyy

ued £pOOM 19170 pu qruys ‘2ax], :suoRIIdg ame 994] 205 PrEpURg feUONEN UeDLIOUTY

AydesBouqig

‘sooqianid jawaSeurpy 159 VST OD
‘Suypuoooe pouuoysod aq 0} st 2oueuayurews {Ly “suorE|na4 [290] pue spuepueys ArDyes |
ISNV 01 uDype pur O| YBMosYY | sud ssoHIDVe pUOpUOIG :juaWaBOUDYY 1uPIe ApOOM 42)
(Pun qnuays ‘2a4] :Suonesodg axe) 224}, 204 prepurrs [eUONEN, ueDHDWUY oY Buspsoo9e SUNN
‘uy poyyads 0g j1eys azeo pue soueuajureus dauy, “2sUd91T] SIOIDEITUO. BILUOHED GF-C/19-I
Yuta astuoque paytyenb w £q pounojaad aq |[eys syexowiny pur ‘sue ‘aoueuD UIE 9aN [TY °Z

-sioquin qu
Suroeiq 40 ope qui Burddesm Aq aBieurep yeorueyoour Woy S9an amp Jo SUN axp 190d “1

suonepuewiwoseYy

‘mes wast
Surpjing 241 wo wwopusdap ¢ZL"p 40 ¢Log’¢ JUNO axe sjeor ayy, “Laue SuIpLING aIqemoTe,, 9 UE
paropisuoo aue saan yas 10U 40 J9Y}9M UO SuIpuodap 7.¢"1 40 SOIL SE 9NIEA A/T 9BeADA OH,
“worreasasaud 40} A Bj BLA WoRUpUOD pood ut pue BunNos ase s9an OYJ, “,s224] 1201S,
sno0y 3>U q aue Sax} dauy [Te pur douEUIPO axp Aq PouYap sw ,soa4] aBEHHDH,, OU aue aN2y],

$140.9 060g IsvoqreyoeUOW@YOU - 2968 Lee" Le8

j04 ‘0101 X0g O - O77 SISLOGIY BunINsUOg YoIEUOH

means, = Ts"

“amen um Supddlerm 40 sioquin pearson qua
Suroeuq q wonsoqoud pasmbos ayn ystditosde [TEM MOTO poreorpu poyaut A941 “WuoUudIMbs
Avot wioxy soysiEsg pjoyeas 40 “yunat‘S}o0s ay) 01 aBeUAEP BuIprone Uo Sasnd9} WoHIeIOxd 904),

won99}01q ee4L
“poedurt Ou 0} poyTUUT] YEA aU Sty] UO PoUTMaT 9g [ILM S991 ONS ION [TY

‘adojaaua Supring ayy wt poreoo] st 9a au, “wreuaL oy any ay} JO} UOyE 94 SMU SUONIE
Joo 0 ‘popuaurusooas st yeaousas pur postuuouduroo oq [19 yp}eay pu aumIonS aa4y, = USI +
an ay) 90}0ud 0 Uae)
SUL = aTEI0pOWN *
nunsto> au] = MOT»

ULL “YBtY 10 ‘aye19poUL ‘ao] Se PaqUDSEP St pue ‘SAN
ye uoronnsuod Aq parsayye aq Ae dan v Moy soUIjap [2X2] edu

gi 40g ebeg

voqieyoreuow@ you - 2968" Lee 168 wy

81096 VO ‘vowed ‘OL01 x08 Od O77 SisvOGIY BusuOD YOHEUOW.

-wonearssaud soy Aiqenns sey oxey S901 9

‘us oyp Jo asn papuayut 241 40} painsun 40 sBumas adeaspuyy
tur a]qeaisopun 40 ajqnedwoout aue yyy sonsta}aeseyo ssassod eu yenpLarput 10 sais0ds aq

‘quowiaBeuewi jo ssojpzeay uononuysuod Joye 40 BuLnp 2uy|20p 01 pordadxa auv S204], = 3004
yuowdoyaaap soye Aoueyoadxo ajr| su0Hs OnLy eu

Ij 01 Kpeas Kpiuourun 40 peal = alqeisur/pead -%6- *
‘odvasp' jonouny ou 10
yeqoud Bur9q aunyy Jo pooysayyy 249 BEA S199}9P
IAP pe JO8IA 1004 = 3004 K9Q = %0T-9 *
pure sonampsoe pastuuosdwioo pue Anaumuixse
rueoytudig “aun Aue we nao0 Kew amjRy pure parsa1s09 9q yoUUED YEN SIO2}ap 1ueKy TUBS
‘ajdinmar 10 1ayap feamtons snoLs9s auQ “9uL|99p ayqISIOADU feNUDIOT YALA AyISUaP 40 3218
“1009 se110} eu0UR ‘30814 J0od wpa aaUEsRadde SurUH|2Op pure AUNPLAYUA| = 3004 = %O-IZ ©
pasttuosdwoo sonayisoe pue Yorrouny “Tiqey euOU Saroads a4 WON WORX
40 Anjounusse sofeyy wounean Suumbar sioayop ayex9pow a}dryur 10 wo}goud yermanns
queayjuts ouo iseay 1 ‘swiajqoud wsad 10 “yoeqarp ‘aéewrEp ‘081s posnpoy =e ~9% 09-IP *
“ails 941 204 AuyAaBuoy poo ypta pastuuosdiwos
ou sonaqpsae pu uoriauny ‘aumannis pado}2Aap-[19% 081A [EULON = Pood = %08-19 ©
“Aujenb 40 uoreao} ‘az1s tueoyuses yuEN aunronuIs pu WppeDY poo = jeuondsoxa - %O01 +

“unes uormpuos pout
UL (8107 VSI) WHO} pue ‘aumons:

820} sonstia}oeroy dasKp [Te pass
3 |[EIOAO SU Jo UOTTEUTLUZDI2p v St Lor

Buney uon!puog

edeosj}ae1g pesodoid :y xipueddy uoisnjou0g Jono7 yoedwy payoadxg uolssnosiq
2202 ‘91 ounr pasion, #202 ‘91 oun pasnou 2202 ‘91 ounr peso,
£202 ‘pk Aseruge4 pesinoy £202 ‘pl Asreruge pesineyy £202 ‘pl Areruge4 pasinety
etl queen uowssessy sisvoqiy co1en weg ans a's 1 102 ‘81 29qwenon uowssessy sisvoaiy ‘cojey ues Yeons a's Le 102 2h s9quenon wowssossy s3svoqy corey ues wons as Le uowssessy sysvoqiy coyen ues ens 8S 16
S110 pabeg reyorevowyou -Z968'tee Lee siweebed yoqreyareuow@xou - 2968'LEe' 169 siyozebeg woqreyareuowip you - 2968'Lee' 168 $130 1 e6eq woqreyareuowip you - 2968'Lee' 168
1056 vo ‘uted 0401 x09 O's - 071 sIevear Bue Yo! wy ‘81096 v0 ove 0101 208 0 - OTH sBvORNY BuaNeveD YreUOW wy 1056 vo ‘uted 0401 x09 O's - 071 sIevear Bue Yo! wy 1056 vo ‘uted 0401 x09 O's - 071 sIevear Bue Yo! wy

“sms vase
Suipjng op wo wapuodap sZZ"p 40 SLOE"E 49yHO axe syeIOI 9 ",BaHe FuPHING aIgENOIE,24p UL
PPlopisuoa axe saaut ants 10u 40 Jayiow uo Bumpuadap S/s"| 40 <ZOTL St ane (YT aBeIOA OH,

(040s) wornqunuos pu “%40s)

quoura2.4d 0406) 95 J0 aBesoAe axp) wooiod Eg 1 poyst|quso 219m Bures uoMEDO] ayy, "uOdaL
sip Jo uora9s ,3uney worpuo;,,axp Ut pautjap axe saBejuDa.od pur sBuNes UoREPUOD 294),

‘yt Aq paystiqnd ‘jesresddy weyq sj aping wader sow a4 Bu
4 Aiaio0§ ueousoury ayn £q pazrufooas iasresdde adeaspue ps
uo paseg 9g ffeYs S9an ax Jo San|EA REDO} pur ‘uorIPUOD ‘sa!onds 2AM IL, “T

(07) enrea wun edeospuey

"S33UL ONILSIXS 4O NOLLWANASAHd OSE'1L Zz,

sisKjeuy
£202 ‘9b unr posto
£202 ‘pk Aseruged pesinoy
aed georcels wowssossy sasvoqy oo1ey ung "eons a's 16

43au1s
ASUId ONO S33HL 133ULS 11907 NOVI ‘| 3OVINI

ye ave soon samp ou,
eang,, 248 s9an 2034p

‘soureurpuo ay £q pouyjap se
| S204], 980}L9H,, OW au8 2394,

“yeataans 204 ssoqo ayn uo tuapuadap Yea sayeUr Yor Jo aumeU aun ‘San Jo purrs Vy °¢
40 ‘jyauoq Ayunurtuos wueotsUusts Jo 40 anpea feouorsty yeIDads

J0.99 01 flouno3 Autp axp Jo wornfosas £q pareusisop saan Jo purrs 10 aan kuy “p
“dau, a9} suo aIMaNsuOD [I] axn ay “FoUTEAP Ut axOUL
40 saypur uaayy st Hays auo 31 ‘sofoads saxpo [Te 304 “9a4], aBeHLID}] uO aIMINsUOD
[1 9an y1 ‘¥oureIp Ut azous Jo SoyoUT Wor Sf UHaYS duo Jt ‘saan Yeo 404 “aan aUOTE
-purys & Se paunseau 9q [feYS WHOIS Yow ase YOIYAK Ut ‘apes MoJ9q SIn990 uorUN oy
ssoyun stays [@ Jo uorun urewH ayn Mo}9q 1ULOd Jo}ouNENP Io]TEUS oMp 18 paanseLE 9q

Tres (soyour f¢ aojaq 40 ye Suystue) woys uo ey auOWE YIM sod4p, “SON WH €
“apes yeanyeu aAoge sayout ps ve pounsea
(2ouasayuunaato ut Souout ["Lp) 8% 4 Jo JoIoWHeNP YUNA w tp z

‘2pei8 yeamyeu axoge soyout ps ve paunstou (soua9juINDII UE SOUDUE Fg)
a0uu 40 soqour ua} Jo youre w sey Tey Yun w yas aan (ds snaxoNgy) yo KY “|

:Bulmojjo} eu Jo Aue sueew 611 eBeWUEH *y
uonuyed ofo'or'eh

FuLo}I05
up se ,soauy, BELO}, SSUJOP OF'E| oUEUIPIO OOIEWY WES Jo A115 O41, “9PEsB aAoge soyDUE
1419-Ku0y ye panseous Joyeou8 pur sm}oUNP UL So\DUL XIS S9aNT 94} [Te SUIEIUCD A1OTUDAUE DHL,

Asoquanuy ead,
£202 ‘91 eunr posinou
‘8202 ‘rl Averuge pasinon,
1202 ‘BL JequioKON uowssessy susvoiy ‘covey UPS YOONS B'S LE

-swuowasinbas Suuueyd Aysnes dyoy o1 suonpuos aus pue aan Sunstxo 40 aouasapas & sv OOMEY
tung Jo An amp pu ‘sjusde s.sauM0 ‘SsouNo Kuodoud axp £q pasn ag o1 st wodau oy, r99Koxd
1 4q paroaye 9q pinoo rey vase ued ou urea saan axp [Te ApHIUApY O1 papuorut st Oday ay,

yoda, ay} JO asn pue esoding

oN ej YONDeIONe 284, LL
oN usig vone6u
oN aig edeospur
oN ‘suogen9rg 10uep3

yB001

oN <dnsj00H pue weig AN
on. ‘eBeureig pue Guper
oN BurBe1g uonannisu09
oN upjg uonjoweg,
594 nid us pesodoig
‘suoqe00) 908 wile VW 20

oN dew otudeiBodo, ous Bunsrea

S8ON omg PemeNNeY WOU mea weld

WSIPIOUD POMOIAEY SURId ‘| OIGEL
‘uoUUBsse stun 40} paprroud arom suBysop pemydoou0d KIUG) +
‘paunopiad
‘210% S]UUISSOSSW SHI 2911 ON “EZOT *L AzURUgaY PUR OZOZ “LI J2qWEAON, uo UoRadsuL
‘Su Suinp ous pur soan atp Jo uorspuos oxp 01 pau st wodas si¥p ur uoHeUHIOyUE Oy, *

quewubisse oy} Jo sywty
202 81 unr posinoy
£202 ‘Pl Average peswou,
1202 ‘8k equienon suowssessy sasuoqiy ‘omey ues wens aS LE

OSTIL'Lg souvumps0 oareyy wos Jo Aut 941 01 BuIpU0.9R SoNIEA (1 OpIACLE +

sues uoneasosoud 10} Aiigeans pur ‘(auoy pu ‘aumanas “ynye94)

‘uomspuoa ‘(a2}oumeyp yun) azis‘soads aq) apn|sut 01 St JUDUISSOSSe ay, “soHS WDdeFpE a4N UO
pur vase ssofoud ayn wpe son ox Jo wowssosse Uw Sepnjour wy WodaL s,ytOgre Ue ApIAdAd +

quowubissy

“swuauasinbas Suruueyd Aysnes djoy o1 suonepuauwosas pue sBuupuy Aww yum wodas w
aptaoud 01 pure ‘wejd yuucdho0y posodoud pur ‘saan ‘ous atp ssasse 0} aut payse sonsodoig SOA

punosbyoeg

uononpo.juy

sme ase

tu pu Sunos uv soon oy, “Sio.oureyp yun YOUE OAL Up

snoo] 49H |q aue soasy 2auyp [Te pue 2oueuIpu0 yt Kq poujap se ,s2a4] ABH, Ow Axe AIoH|

Auewuwing
ees gon em
babii Z19h6 VO ‘PUEPLO
Oop ans “anuasy pursp O81
sysHoquy Bupinsuo5 yrseuoyy Suey aH 079

sonodoug saarey
Y, 207 ‘91 Sune pastaoy
£TOT “pI Aswnago postary

1Z0Z "81 22qWOKON,

202 ‘94 eunr posinoy,
£202 "rk Areruge4 posinon,
quouissessy sysuoqy onjeW urs ans A'S Le



--- page 127 ---
20°01

ASRNON 13H

1uodae LsdOsUy

‘SNM L3H

NOILONYLSNOD

anus
wt ‘8 OBHOSHO
wa sananeea
cor anenze usenens3r08e
awos
HOLD —WhOwdey ed 135 NOKSIANOD OMNI §
veozwuso —HeTWLUNanS3UNOUWONaY ONAN 9
coveuhl ee WLINEnsaNOUVONdeV OMNIS ¢
foeizuo te WLUNENEINOLVOTsAY ONNINS_Z
zszouno “WiLINENS3E NOLVONSEY ONT
asin NOLWONIde¥ ON
rn Ze
svotsuet
veozscsa sivoanss
> TwLumans3esNOUvON dav OMNIS ssi
‘sS340Y ¥ NN LOFORd
Nara
ey azeid-mwm
0802 VEE'EDS
60226 ¥O Pueniod
L MN SEZ
oizs-eer sty o0ve-Fex sty
ved 2260
Libe6 ewouen
foosouel4 UeS ovo
200 hr aumpomuany

404 LON

joons suid 09 nes

NWI

S140 ¢1 o6eg, woo Isyoqreyareuow @you - Ze68'LEe"1e8
{1056 ¥0 ‘woes ‘0101 x08 Od “OTT sisUORIY ButINsuED YorEUOHN wy

Boyan 249 Jo worse wan ‘saad ayn

ATIPEE-ANN cBISHOQry JoISePY payT9D PrP VST
‘96h cxistuoqay Bunnsuoy paisrsi3oy YOSV

USS °f PIEYOI

‘3661 99uIs soon Jo <pnys pur axes oxp pue aumynauoqy

IDHOGIY JO £13190§
joype pur ydoa0e «
i prStoqy Sunjnsuo; p:

pororpur se adooxo ‘jueynsuo9 ayy oF sourrsisse [PuorSsajoud jUEDYyIUBIS poptAaid au

ssoonoead yeamnouoqry pardaage Aquows09 07 Furp10998
pagndasd uaoq seq Hodas si pue padoyaaap axa suotsnjou0o pure ‘suorurdo ‘siskjeur AU YH,

‘sumo Cur aze ulauay payers suotsnsuos pur suoruido ‘stsAyeue aq Tet,

‘spanyonur sored oy 0} odsay yrs seq Jo ysas9qut jeuosiod ou aaey | pue “odas sup Jo

£81086 vo ‘uote, ‘10 ¥Oa O's O11 ssHORIY ButnSUOD LpLeUOHL wy

“ominy
‘4p ul esie Jou few! Auiedoud 40 siuejd Jo seloueroyop Jo sue|qoud jeinjonuys yeUp “Pelidul Jo
passaidxe ‘aajuexenB 10 Ayueem Ou S| 494, ‘BULI09 10 ‘Buigoud ‘uorteneoxe ‘uoroassip INOW
‘S\UO}! 9IQ!SSE09" Jo LONEUIUHEXe jensiA 0} Poyiwsy s! YONDEdSUI a4N (q PU ‘uORIedsUI Jo OLN
‘uy 18 UORPUOD soy} PUB SUID} POUILUeXe AjUO S!9X00 Yoda siuy (2 :passoidxe OSINUEYIO SSOIUN

“uoneuojul pies Jo Avesnove Jo Aoue!oyns oy) 0} Se UOHEIUesesdas

8 aMIgSUOD 10U SeOp sjuaUNDOP JaUNO 40 SBuIMEIP AUB MN YOREWHOsUI Pres Jo UOIsNIOU
“eauaj9jal Jo OSe9 PUE LONEUIPIOD 40) AjUO si sydesBO}OUd 10 ‘sGuIMeID ‘SoUD}O¥S AUE LO
SIUBNSUCD J84YO 40 ‘s180UIBUD “sjoalIUoLe Aq peresoUes Uo Jo uoonposdes By “sKenuns
20 sodas jesmaenyose Jo BuvaauiBue se pansisuod aq JOU Pinoys PUE ‘aIe0S 01 Ajuessedau.

Jou ue ‘spre jensin se asn 10 papuajul axe yoda, siy) ut sydesGojoud pue ‘sGumesp ‘seyRIOxS

‘quan juanbasqns e Jo s0ue1IN990 84140 ‘yNSes pareindns
@ ‘onjen jestesdde payjoeds e yo 6up0dou 84) Uodn yuabu|UCO JOU s! 994 s,)UeNINSUCD a4)
ue ‘jUeINsuo9 au) Jo UolUIdo ey) juesaida Uleiey pesseidxe enjen lestesdde Aue pue Yoder silt

“s@ayes Yons 40} 694 jeuonIppe ue Jo JUoWAed Buipnoul ‘epew axe suoWoBUELE
Jenjoequoo juenbasans ssejun Hod, sitn Jo uosees Aq sjels 40 ‘uonenIque ‘suoneIpeU
‘seoue19ju09 ‘s6uLe9Y ‘sGuleaU puaye 40 AUOWNSe} oAI6 0 pasinbas oq jo1

“siaupo Aq papinoid uonewioju! Jo Aoesnove ayy 10} ajq'suodsa: aq
JoUUeD 1UEIINSUCD ey} ‘senEMo}; “SEDUNOS e|qeI}01 LOY) LONELWIOJU! UJEIqO 0} Ue} YEEq Sey B12D

siyoet ebeg woo isyoqieysieuoW@xOU - Ze68't
{81056 VO ‘voye4 ‘0101 ¥og Od “OTT SISHORNY

188
ynsU09 YoIEUOH wy

jsuoquy yelo1g

oavdainod

jeare ejsa us eyeUS

opeziioyne jeuosiad ojos “uoloeqoide
PIAOWA 18S OU BDJ99 eISy
opilajeig |oquy aq eBUOZ

si s0zL ebed
81096 vO “us

ysuoquy yeloldg

yeyoseuow@ YOU - 2868" HEELS yw

W04 ‘0101 og Od - OTT sisvORrY Bunnsuod YoseUOHY

jease siyj ejue Aew
j@uuosied paziuoujne AjUQ ‘;eAoudde
yNoYWM parAow aq jOU |;e4US BDU SIYL
SUOZ UO!O9}OJd 9dlL
ONINYVM

roafgns amp st ey Auadoad axp 40 uoreyaBoA ayy ut ysazaqut aanoodsoad 40 JwaUIND OU DALY | TEU, rv) is
*suoqeinBes s8yjo
‘yuowuissy Jo stusay pu yodau paysene J0 ‘soinje}s ‘seaueulpio ‘sepoo ajqeoiidde ym eouewiojUc9 UI! aq 01 peuunsesd si Auodoud IIy Q.
2 u pares st yesyeadde 20/pue uonenyess ayy jo wax aq. <jareunooe sfurpuy Aw payers aaeq 5
pure ‘yodas siip ut 0} paxiajou kuadoud sip s0/pue (soon axp paroadsut <jyeuossod aavy | HL, "uawoBeuew yUjaduioo pue diyssoumo a\g\suodsos Jopun ‘seEIo puE dx YENoY
‘se payenjene Jo pasjesdde s| Ayedoud |ny “e1qe}ey4eW pue poob aq 0} pawinsse ee seyedoid jo
Aynuag ‘19uss9 preyNY | diysiaumo 40 sap Kuy "y981/09 aq 0} pawnsse si jUEYNSUOD ay) o] Papinod UoNduosap je69 AUy
ysi6u3 ‘10
BOUBWOPad JO UOHIIaD suopuoD Buniwi] pue ‘suondwnssy ‘suoneoyieno ysjueds :za suBIg u01199}01q aad, :q xIpueddy
e202 ‘91 eunr pesinee £202 ‘91 ounr pasitoxs #20291 oun paso 2202 ‘91 ounr posiow,
202 ‘pk Arrugey posiioy £202 'P1 Arersgey pesinoy 202 ‘pk Arrugey posiioy 202 "pk Arrugeg pasiioy
toe Bl 29quenon wowssossy sasuomy co1en weg ans a's 1 1202 i s2qwron ruaussessy s spo ae ues Yoans 8's Le 102 ‘81 29qwenon, woussessy sisvoqiy co1en weg ans a's 1 102 2h s9quenoNy wowssossy sasvoqy coyen weg ons a's 1
$140 tL e6eq woo isuoqreysrevoU.@¥Ou -ZB6e 1eE"L68 S440 LL 06g woo isuogieyoreuoU.@%ou -Za6e"LeE'LE8 $110 01 e604 woo isuoqreysrevoU.@¥Ou -ZB6e 1eE"L68 S110 6 0604 reyorevow@xou - 2068
{1086 vo ‘uowe4 0101 x09 OW “OTT sIsVOGNY ButN=t0D UOHeLOY wy {81086 ¥0 ‘uaied ‘0101 208 GOT sisLORNY Bust YoreUOW wy {1056 vo ‘woHe4 0101 x08 Od - OTT sBHORY BuO YorEUOH wy 1086 ¥0 og Od -OT1 shu wy
tuononsisuoa Joye pue Bump yeatamns aunsuo doy or paxidde aq pinoys tuononsisuoo Joye pue Buunp jeatamns aunsuo diay or paxdde aq pinoys
siwowean pue Suyoyes yewuowjddns syjuout zouiuns oxp Ruunp sn990 of St UO!INsSUOD 24) Jf swwownean pue Suyoyes jewuowjddns sqjuou souiuns 2xp Suunp sn90 of St YorINsSUOD 2p jf
Buu, Buu
doap y24 d0uyp Jo wnuuyuna & 9g pjnoys S2}oy 210K] “soos (1WE2q) ano prone oy wa}S HEU cdoap 24 a0uyp Jo winuuyunu 8 9g pjnoys S2joy 210K “soos (1HE9q) anbygo prone o} waIs EL apuaddy) ystueds pu ysifSut a
juaoelpe aq plnoys s9joy 40g] "]O01 uoHEABOXD JOE juaoelpe aq plnoys s9joy a40g “Jo. uoHBABOXD s9qEN 9q Pinoys suis au uo joad st aoueqanys Pur sauoz uonoaorg 994], ase
Avaxa 40 Snp puey wou pur \OouD are JNAWEIP UE pareavoxa 40 np puey uatp pur paraqunoous axe s9yOUIEIp Ul tp uri Seas IS SUBS HEM paxseUr AjrPaj9 29g plnoys Surouay Jo suoND
{6q pouoyiod a9 oste Kou Butiog, youan » Busi £q pouoysod aq oste Ae Buttog,
dn 9s 9g pinoys souryoeu Zuo, dup amp apisino dn 19s 9q pjnoys sourysew BuL0g, SuBIS UONDe}0Jd 8a4L
Biu_eiiin, 1 Bus paqeuuny s BUDS 1» paunyd aq joys 205 yuouraoejdu pue 2ou2y worsajoud 900) Sue
Heuuny, Hog euuny, Hog Sutaowias 0} 01d pasinbas 9 ‘ou Jo pus up ze asuogue Au19 ay) <q uonDodsut jours W
doy 09 pinoys nou auo uxpta poy yseq 10 dejing yuo stout day 24 piNOS
inf youeug 100s ‘sjoos pasodxa ‘para|duios uayA\, “Istogre yoofoud ayy £q pastarodns aq puv su ‘SomUARE
JaYUIS puodaq Ind aq P[noys Soo “wWo) 40 paystud Yo] UeYA JOYE ANS UTEYD uoronsuos woyy s914meq [worsAyd v aprroud oO} ‘Kavssaoou sv ‘pasredas aq pjnoys Susu
430 aves Bueooudiu wespury‘Siod puny £q pound aq pynoys Aa oud pw 28 , yma
AS|OUIBIP UL SOYDUT OAN JOAO SJOOS LYAA “IsOgzE Joafoxd yp Aq pastAadns aq J[eYs FuruTUd oy joqre yoafoad aup £q pastaradns 24 | ‘suonouny Jodoud puv oSewep 20) <jfeorpousod payoodsut 99
Pinoys pue pousd uonaniisuos axp Huuunp aus ay) noysNoxp poureAUTEW 9q Pinoys BuidU2y ayy,
Sujundg yooy Sujunig yooH ‘uonoedsu pouyy jun ssog01d uononnsuod ay inoysnosA poure}UTeUE
. 24 pure paganisipun urpuiasysnuu Buouay ayy “pays qers9 25u0 "wede 193)
souoz wonsajoud 2am ay dink a jpasece pus pono’ omy coms secur yz aap ‘need poerueaye® sescmep Par 4/L
apisino painoy 2q [[eys wouidinba pure jauuosiad uoHonAsuo, ‘uo pajunowr fu1ouay yur] UrRYD YBIY 100-XIS Jo pastduio aq plnoys FuIsUD.f
Gaoz wogsajont 9a 40 quatidinbo uonanaysti09 Jo [PALE aup oy soud paystyqesa 9g Pinoys Su19uaj uoNoMOud 9944,
atl sist (e19e2B0pnesd
Buloue4 pue seuoz uonoejo1g eed, yoszor' |  eeuLyeens  uBIeY /mo7 poops © BUugoLw) sn20} ¥OEIG
9u0Z uoRDe}OAd Oo4L OUR UII SUORDINSOY 9u0Z UORDe}O4d So4L OUR LILI SUORDINSOY * " esi —]
yoseor'l eeijieng ureey mor poop, sz Puiqoy) 18n00) ya
pau ‘porow
. - ape aie = - we sust (@oeaeopnesd
24 prnoqs pouoyiod 9 0 spoau rep 40m fIpowat Kwssoo0U Aue pu ‘tjdo9 st uononsto9 29 pinoys pauusojiad 9q 0 sp2ou yoy 10% retpauuay Kawssanau uw pur “I2|dwoo st uonanuysuoD roeeet|  scuroone| umoumor| poon| ga | amsanttnececrnese
Jaye suOqIY pOUI2 VSI Paysfenb e 40 ystioqueyoafoud ay) £q parEnyers aq pynoys aU HL, “aye suoqry pO4ss2 VSI Payltenb w 40 ystioque yoafoud ayy £q parenyeaa aq pynioys aus HL, =
siotunso noun ‘sone soyaestuoo Fuiouay Au 210}9q parse aq pinoys suoNeD9] uor2a}oud 294), poduy mound
la i araouunoop enren ni = uonisodsiq —peyedxg~uopypuog yun, sojoods oo1s

94 pinoys pur ystiogzy pays. VSI payitenb v 40 ystuoqre yoofoud yn Aq pasouUoUL aq pynoys
‘ioo4 201) 1unoUa 40 aeuTEp 01 paydodxa st 1

jowap 40 uorionnsuod “Buryouan Kuy

BuyoyUoW
e202 ‘98 ounr posto
202 ‘rt Arerugea pasion

1202 ‘81 JequenoN juouissossy sasuouy onjeW Uns YeANS A'S Le

294 prnoys pur jsuoqry pauia. VSI payttenb v 10 ysuogre y29foud ap £q pasowuous 9q pinoys
sou 2au1 soqunooue 20 aBeuryp o1 paroodxo st rey) wontjowap 40 oHINsIsuoD Furyouan ky

BuUOWUOW
£202 91 eunr poset
202 nt feriges poset

1202 "81 aquanON jwouissassy sasuoqiy onjeW urs Yeans A'S Le

ysHoquy yefold O47 YUM Busey UORONySUOD-e1d

SOUIJEPIND UOHDE}04q a4] 7D xIPUeddy
e202 ‘91 eunr pesinae
202 ‘pk Arruges posiioy

1202 ‘81 JequenoN juouissossy sasuouy onjeW Uns YeANS A'S Le

202 ‘91 eunr posinoy
202 ‘rk Areruge4 pesiion,
1202 "a1 sequenon

[-Arewuing Aowuenuy :2 21geL

ejqey Aewiuing dai, :g xipueddy

quauissessy sisuoqiy onjeW urs Yeans A'S Le



--- page 128 ---
£0°01

ASRNON 13H

Wwao4
ONILNV 1d S3uL

‘SNM L3H

NOILONYLSNOD
404 LON

anes
oo ‘AB OBNO3HO
MA. ‘A NAEC
ovtiozzz eeNON L93rOde
arwos

ZO WHOA 20 135 NOISSIAMOD ONIN §
e200“ RBAVLLUNENSRENOLIVONdAY ORIN»
eS WLLINENSRE NOLIVONdAY ONIN &
26 WLLUNENSRE NOLIVONAY ONIN 2
“TWLUNENS3E NOLONIdeY ONIN 4
Nolivorddy ONIN
a ne
sHoIsies
wees V0 38st
Pe TWLLNNERS NOUN dV ONIN S81
LOvv6 VO ‘OALVIN NYS
LSFYLS 2° LS

LAAYLS aS ZS

‘SeeROY ¥ WYN 105FO¥E

LSAAYVH

od

Nara
ey azeid-mwm
0802 VEE'EDS
60226 40 d
anUaAy WEL MIN SEL
oizs-eer sty o0ve-Fex sty
ved 2260
Libe6 ewouen
cosuelg UES ssouen
200 hr aumpomuany

joons suid 09 nes

NWI

2pno wowed BuUUeIS UL Te

oS* {einpayas 204 anjsuayaiduiog yuanin
40d se anjen m1 sod ¢ pouyop Ajenuue

“smojjo Se payeynsje> r9yap anjer rue oq
PUNT BORUEYE 3s

upped ‘saan,
js Son quowiane|das MON,

315 mau Jo} uaWauinbas oxmnsqns TOU UE OT WOnTGET
Zr parodond Suroq #98 Mau jo 9n1¢A NTIBOL
0q ul gy
x09 4>UI 9 v
09 wpur Fe
Tomes St
anjea MIeeL soem aus "RUE

a

{= P2We|d Bujog $9011 MON

maya “puny
‘on quajeninba anjen (m1) tun adeaspuel, ¥
S381] MON

{ou 10/pue pavejdas ag 0 anjen ry wn

‘ainpay2s uopenjena 224) ayy wos,
saan jo anyea (rm) aun adeaspuey

a spansasaud aq 01 9j2WWeIp 1918018 40 YoU! 9 e YIM
aimpey2s uonenjeng 221) wow saan Bunsixa jo sequNN

[a = 0p + -y bs leary adeaspuey

‘unsixa “eave padeospue| jo 4994 axenbs gop sad 9au3 Tyo ones wnusu sioofoud je saunas ‘adeaspuey — 12°22 Uojr9s ‘ap

(seaiy eens) Supuejd 2941 pauinboy

98 9668 (110) 06 oa wn adeoepuey
2pIn9 vonennédy Bets au oveirs=.o@cersxare1 | TE

Tes: {einpayas 204 anjsuayaiduiog yuan
sad se anjen m1 Jod § pauyap Ajenuue aun) x “Syz'p= 2p]

‘smojo Se payeyns}e> yDYap anjen (71 Ue 9g IM
puny BORUETS aa

20135 mau 10} SyuaWiasInbas aymnsqns TOU PUP OT WORIPPE UT aq jeys saan w9Wa2e/4—1 MIN.
0 “spasodoid Bujaq s9ai mau jo anjen m1 (e101
v 04 \DUl BP

oO €

T
‘anien m1 1eOL ‘anien my

in adeaspuey, ¥
S381] MON

junueyd aan ans 5 AN a4} 01 px ue 4 ‘aus uo parueyd aq sayyo asnuu ‘anoge (p) 01 wajenINba anjea (M1)

wee Ip =24q~0) soja

are au 40/pue parejdas aq
= :aypauas uonenjen 2011 249 wos,
I adeaspuey

> spansasaud aq 0 sa2WeIp 1918048 40 You! 9 e YIM
‘aimpey2s uonenjeng aa4y wow saan Bunsixa yo soquNN

a = 00h + "y's —gEp :eauy adeospuey

e301 sua pueMor qUnoD Aew sj9WeIP Y>UI 9 Jo WnuyUIW e ALE eM s9aN
Sunspea -eave padeospue| jo 1994 auenbs gop sad aan t jo ones wnusjulus e aney 03 s12a/0ud ie Sauinbau ‘ade>spuey — 12°Lz uondas “apo BuIUo7

uo) Supueld aaa. pasnboy

‘@pino woneniiddy Buwuelg ayy, of

sPanowiDy 2q 0} $924) JO AN/EA 11201

seo
seo
seo
se0
seo
Panowey
gai, | ease -Bpiq | (soyruy) /
anjen | aBeqweH | aigemoye | ozs wanien | %anlen | %anIen | paniasaid
m__| set | myoc'o | sade | seo | uones0r | uorpue | sopads | :aes wen sepads | you
=¢ x x—x585+( x x ) :2njen m1 Buneynoje> 404 einuws0s

aynpayas uonenyeng aau4 unsexg

‘mojaq UoReWOsU! B43 YR!M 2Iy [89X9 Ue LIGNs asedjd "S3ILL ONILSIXA 4O NOLLWAWISIud OST'TL'ZZ IWS
{ym quaysisuos pamypay adeaspuey pasuann 40 ystuoquy Ue Aq paredaid aq ysnuu A1ojUanul SIM) TEROUOT I OU I

‘J JO TaOUTEIP e TAIN S9—IT TE 705 pasinbar s} sanjen yun adeaspuey yam ajnpayrs worrenjeng 211 Bunsixa Ue pue Uoday asuOGAY UY

*SUORIPPY 307 Supjied 0 SUOIPPY SuIplINa “SHUN Sumjema [eNvePIseY

MAN JO UONIMASUOD SY} 10} FOVSUIETG UI SIOW 10 ,.9 S9BI] JO [EAOWAY Oy SUIAJOAU] SyO|OId Joy PauNbsy

Hoday ysuoquy 03 payseny pue paraduioy aq sn,

sanjen 31un adesspue] y3IM ainpayps UoRenjeng aaa] SuNsKa
wodey ysuoquy ul e1ge1 AiojUeAu| 8241 JO) (6 DV) Z0'07 98S ESeA1q



--- page 129 ---
0011

ASRNON 13H

400714 GNNOYS
- NV1d SdVOSONVT

‘SNM L3H

NOILONYLSNOD
404 LON

anes

oo ‘AB OBNO3HO
MA. ‘A NAEC
ovine eeNON L93rOde
arwos

2uZe210—WHOLdEY HO 138 NOISSINNOD ONINNd
veozeso ‘pe WLINenszu NOUWONdY ONINN
ezizout ‘ WLUINEnSzu NOUWaNddY ONINN
‘e WLUNENSRE NOLWONddY ONINN
“TWLUINNS3E NOLVONde¥ ONIN
Nolivorddy ONIN

NOLAIOSSS

swoIss

veozeaso ‘suvo 3nss1
Pe WLUINGNSRS NOUVOFad¥ NNN ‘ansst

LOrv6 VO ‘OSLWN NYS
LSFYLS 2° LS

LAAYLS aS ZS

‘SeeROY ¥ WYN 105FO¥E

LSAAYVH

od

ey azeid-mwm
0802 VEE'EOS

60226 ¥O Pueniod
anuany WIBL MN SEL

JDV1d

‘Nara

sizs-eeL sty o0gs-Fez sty
vey er

Lite euowen
cosiuely UES sous,
ool iP aunponuary

joons suid 09 nes

NWI

(SWYOd 3dVOSGNV1 - HONS NIT)
“0'0..b LV SLSSY WV HLIM “TIVL3d HON3S “2

AHON 1S3aaLS

SNM ALYadOud

NINN ONILSIXa

dois sna

gasn LON

(aovdS €) ONDISWd

‘S3INOSS399¥ NVEYN

QYVONVLS ALI ‘SLVHS ML

(LH .9€) SUNSOTONS SON34

(VLOL S30vdS 9) MOY SMIG STOVIO TIM GLS ALIO

(LNVNAL Ad Gal)
BYNLINYNS TTVSAON

(2 W430 43S) HONAS SLIS

(L TW13d 33S) ¥3NHOO LY TWAOWSY TM TWiLave

S3NIA NO V3UV ONLLNV Id

ino-sing

NOISNALX3 84ND

nd euno

JIAID 33S ‘ONIAVd STEVENS

aasn LON

WAuV ONLLNW 1d HSLVMNSOLS

VAUV ONLLNV Td G3SIVe

VauV ONLLNVTd 30VeO LW

(2)

@)
@ @

(=)
ew)

@)
Y

e@ ®
S77)

@)
©

=)
®

@)
®

>

STIVM 8 SEUND "HSINVId

YALNV Td YaLVMWHOLS Y3A0 SOaINa

YSAWd LINN BLSHONOD LSvOaed |

ONVS HONE YWVINDIGNAdYAd /M GNO@ ONINNNY HOINe
CUVGNVIS ALID "3NOZ ONIHSINUN LV ONIAVd ALTVIOadS

SNOSONINYSH MOINS
GYVONVIS ALID ‘NOLLOSSHALNI LV ONIAVd ALTVIOSdS

HSINI4 WOON ‘GSN
CUVONVIS ALI ‘ONIAVd 3L3YDNOD

(Ry
NZ)

A)
eo

(Ss)
we

@

>)

wy)

SINSNSAVd
FINGSHDS STVINSLVIN

AAV LSUld

3NOZ ONIGVOT 8YND MOTTA (a)
00°87

Vv

€O4 TIVM NINO 4O NOLLOSS 3AOWSY

ey)
a. © ~ & rf
Gy) Kr 2 ww) -@) td
y/
| *
aD
i) <=
&)
oa
| &
V
NOILWAS14 LSAM = 1V3A38 TIVM ASTIV
\ ® \ © \7r
Tv 40 31s t
UBINGO LISNVUL NO SSNIASAONSE “O77 5 o o
TWMNIND ONUSIXS “2
NIVW3Y OL 3SV8 3LFYONOD ONUSIXS 9
*9'0.9@FIOH TING IYOD wh 'S
O14 ONId3IHOy ©
NOWLWGNNOS did *€ 02.
‘ONILSIXS HOLV OL ‘dV MAN *% “
SS3OOV TWNSIA GaAOUdMI
+

YZ

(YW TINIS YO LONGOYd TOSANYNOL - YALNV 1d SYIHSTIM)

STVIMSLVI/TIVLAG - XO8 YALNV Id

wepueyS Se/OY UIEIG -

Guysru eonped o} ound
su

uojewuojep 1s1s@1 0} pavaaul6u3 -

seq joes ssejureys yj joays aBen6-z} -

=>



--- page 130 ---
L011

‘SINAN 13H

dOvewal 2 TA51
~NW1d ONILNV1d
8 AdVISONVT

"INVN 1334S

NOILONYLSNOD
4y04 LON

‘alls

‘n8 0390380

iy ‘Ae Nitya
ovo iu3ENNMN 19578
aryo8

WORE) WAOLedY HOS LESNOISSINNICO ONIN §
2028050 ‘a TWLUINANSSH NOLYONaY ONIN y
20cm Se TwLINANSSH NOLYONaY ONAN &
senen2io ‘i TWLUNANSSH NOLYONeay ONIONS Z
exuz0H0 “WLUNENSSH NOUWordav ONO b
zw Nolvartey OMNES

rors

SNOISIARH

re0e9080 suyasnsst
pe Luangz4 NoUWarddY ONINNYE ‘nsst

10rP6 VO ‘OSL NYS
LSSYLS 8'S LS

LAAYLS €'S 2S

‘SSAUOGY ¥ IVN LO3TORS

LSAAYVH

‘nano

0807 VEE'EDS
60226 HO puepiog
aNUany WSL MN SEL

JW 1d

suzs-eas sie 0g6-1az str
xe 010
Libre euoyen
‘osoueiy ues sioyow
201s iF ampeiy
38ng suid 09 mn

o 8 470
—— aa
=,8)h :3WOS YANMO Ad GSHSINYNA 38 OL JOVYYAL ‘3LON
87 ‘VauV ONILYNTd Gasiva (29)
98 ‘VAY ONULNYTd dasive (19)
UBLNVId
dALTW1S3d3d NO ONDIO30. doom (18)
dALIISAG3d NO UIAVd ALTYONOO. (Lv)
SINAN3AVE
A1NGSHOS STVINALVN
FOVEXAL YOO] 5, SACIONINSWr
anzivassn, 20” ANIA aNINSWe WOWYadSOTSHOVEL | LL A. _
— : aeaaad
J0.e s# BSOuxO0N ‘dds snusio | (884 2
“on ‘WIOWEWOS, aaaa dA
00 .2h ce dvu9 SONVHO MOT worosinoy vinoHvw | faa
DO We ce ooanva ‘WYSELS Wewwe’
" AINSAVSH LOvdNO9 | 41ND, VOULSAWOG YNIGNYN aaa dal
a SSVHO WAVES \NOLLIGIY SGNO78. areata
DOweh 4] ame nowlawy 3aNo78 smioveo wnoTainoe vww wen
(auds:
S3LON| ONIOvdS| x1H) aziS BINVN NOWWOO BINVNTWOINVLOS)  AS¥| TOSWAS
WAWNININ
(S30VEYSL YOOTS YaddN) SYSLNVId G3SIVY
31NGSHOS LNVId
e)
Sa0VuuaL Yaddn NOTIV9 $1 LYNOWN> INVOWN JevMa faving

lWvowN, L¥noWny snag! \"//

(S3OVYNAL Y3ddN) ENYHS 3OYVT



--- page 131 ---
20°11 A

veommuzis NC

dOVeNAL € T3A51
~NW1d ONILNW 1d
8 AdVISGNVT

‘SNM L3H

NOILONYLSNOD
404 LON

anes
oa ‘AB OBNO3HO
MA. annie
ovtiozzz eeNON L93rOde
arwos

veozezuo
veozeso
exozeoih
ezuei20

ave NOLAIOSSS Ww
swoIss

veozeaso ‘suvo 3nss1

Pe WLUINGNSRS NOUVOFad¥ NNN ‘ansst

WhOddeW 404 13S NOISSIANOD ONIN
‘pe WLINenszu NOUWONdY ONINN
‘ WLUINEnSzu NOUWaNddY ONINN
‘e WLUNENSRE NOLWONddY ONINN

“TWLUINNS3E NOLVONde¥ ONIN
Nolivorddy ONIN

LOrv6 VO ‘OSLWN NYS
LSFYLS 2° LS

LAAYLS aS ZS

‘SeeROY ¥ WYN 105FO¥E

LSAAYVH

‘Nara

sizs-eeL sty o0gs-Fez sty
vey er

Lite euowen
cosiuely UES sous,
ool iP aunponuary
yoons suid 09 re)

— YANMO Ad GSHSINNS 38 OL JOVYYSL “ALON
07h =.8/b SAIVOS
b
, 6)
By 'VANV ONIN Id BSUL Gasive (29)
90 ‘VARY ONUNVI Gasiva (19)
YaLNVId
dAL"WLSaad NO ONINDI0 GOOM
dAL' WLS4G3d NO N3AVd 3LSYONOO ww)
SLNAWSAVd
FINGSHOS STVINSLVIN
SoveYsl YOo1s _ ‘SSCIONINSYE
‘aNz iv aasn ind NIA ANINS VE WAWY3dSOTSHOVYL A!
‘Oe Si 3SOWA0N “ddS SNLSIO were
on WLOVdNOS, AAAAAA
iidaad bail Bava SONVHO MOT! WONMOSINOW VINOHWA wwe"
“yOu oe ooanva ANVSULS Terara |
“ AINBAVSH LOWdWOD | 41ND. WOILSSINOG YNIGNWN: AAAAAA
“oo.21| ‘SSVHO VINVHO | ‘NOLLIGWY 30NO78, were
head 4) ania NOLLaWy 3aNOTa stlowuo WNOTALAOA aaa aa’)
(auds
S3LON| ONIOvES| x-1H) azIS ANN NOWWOS BIN OINVIOs) ASH) TOBIAS
WAWININ
(SZ0VeuaL YOOTS NaddN) SUBLNWId Gasive
INGSHOS LNVId
sa0veUaL Yaddn NoTHYS S| _LVNOWNy INVOVN avMa awe
AINVOWN. LYNOWNY SNALID
(S30VeuaL 3ddn) ENYHS 3001]



--- page 132 ---
£011 ee!

veommuzis NC

YANMO A GSHSINYNA 3d OL JOWYYAL ‘3LON

dovaual 7 T3A51
~NW1d ONILNW 1d
8 AdVISGNVT

‘SNM L3H

NOILONYLSNOD
404 LON

anes
oa ‘AB OBNO3HO
MA. annie
ovtiozzz eeNON L93rOde
arwos

veozezuo
veozeso
exozeoih
ezuei20

are

veozeaso

Pe WLUINGNSRS NOUVOFad¥ NNN

WhOddeW 404 13S NOISSIANOD ONIN
‘pe WLINenszu NOUWONdY ONINN
‘ WLUINEnSzu NOUWaNddY ONINN
‘e WLUNENSRE NOLWONddY ONINN

“TWLUINNS3E NOLVONde¥ ONIN
Nolivorddy ONIN
NOLAIOSSS

swoIss

‘suvo 3nss1

‘snssi

LOrv6 VO ‘OSLWN NYS
LSFYLS 2° LS

LAAYLS aS ZS

‘SeeROY ¥ WYN 105FO¥E

LSAAYVH

‘Nara

sizs-eeL sty o0gs-Fez sty
veg ‘0M

Lite euowen
‘0s;UE14 UES sous,
ool iP aunponuary

yoons suid 09 re)

dALW1LS304d NO SNIM4D30 GOOM (s)

dALW1S33d NO USAVE 3LSHONOO (Lv)

SINAW3AVE

A1NGSHOS STVINALV

doveYsl yOO1s = S3dIONINSWP
anzivaasn| OF | BNI BNINSVE WNWY3dSOTSHOVEL | AN
“on . Sanaa
VO" SH | SOYNNDON ‘dds SNLSID: | Peanaa
rey WLOWdINOD. AAAAA
20.21 kad 3dVUO SONVEO MOT WANOSINOY VINOHVW etree
‘yO. ce ‘ooanva ‘WW3u1S ererwran
“ AIN3BAW3H LOWdINOD | 31ND. VOILSAWOG WNIGNVN AAAAAA
> | ssv¥9 VWINVEO ‘NOILIGNY 30NO78, | aera
‘VOWzt tame Nowa 30NO1a smiovu9 vnoTainog wewwwe|
(aeds
SB10N| ONOVES| x44) azIS BIN NOWWOS AINVN WOINVLOG) ASH -TORWAS
WAWINIW
(S30VeUaL YOON Addn) SUALNVTd G3SIVE
aINGSHOS LNVId
SSOVeUSL U3. aavma__( 2, )
dain NOTH St LYNOWNy IWWOWN aavMa )

HINYOVN. LVNOWNY SNHLIO|—\

(S3OVYYSL YAddN) BNYHS FOYT

(a) 8)

'
'

is

(\acal))

f Way I
| ha '

ten



--- page 133 ---
00°77

ASRNON 13H

400714 GNNOYS
~NW1d ONILNV 1d

‘SNM L3H

NOILONYLSNOD
404 LON

anes
‘AB OBNO3HO
MA. ‘A NAEC
ovine eeNON L93rOde
arwos

2uZe210—WHOLdEY HO 138 NOISSINNOD ONINNd

5
veozeso = WLUNENS3e NOLWONIdAY OMNIA»
ezizout ee WLUNENS3H NOLWONIdAY OMNIA &
ezuei20 22 LUNENSIE NOLWONIddY ONIN Z
sz0z01n0 “TWLUNENS3E NOLONIdeY ONIN 4
zeta Nolivorddy ONIN
ave NOLAIOSSS

swoIss
veoze0s0 ‘suvo 3nss1
Pe WLUINGNSRS NOUVOFad¥ NNN ‘ansst

LOrv6 VO ‘OSLWN NYS
LSFYLS 2° LS

LAAYLS aS ZS

‘SeeROY ¥ WYN 105FO¥E

LSAAYVH

‘Nara

ey azeid-mwm
0802 VEE'EOS

60226 ¥O Pueniod
anuany WIBL MN SEL

JDV1d

sizs-eeL sty o0gs-Fez sty
vey er

Lite euowen
cosiuely UES sous,
ool iP aunponuary
joons suid 09 nes

= Bi) S3TVOS

AAV LSuld
Sa

\

eee

\

NISV@ 4O 1331 MOTSHSAO OL G3LVIND WO FY SSILLNVND INV Id ALITIOVS NHOLS 'Z
“MAIAZY LINYAd HOS LNO NOUS TY SINGIHOS ONILNVId ALITIOVS WYOLS, NI SSILLNWNO LNVTd_"t

"SLON
“9O.GH]  “LNOO Hl WNYOLHOAL WATVLSdVYGNOHO| oF [eyes r
INGSHOS ONILNW 1d ALIMOWS WHOLS
‘DOGL “LNOOS /#| VWSOLIdS39 VISHWVHOSSG) Sz
‘OGL “LNOO L# <3N18 413. SNSLVd SNONNL) =SZ
‘OSb “LNOO L# WNYOLHOSL WA1WLAdVYGNOHD) = SZ
“O'O.S1 “LNOO Hit VAOVNIGNNEY WALLS) $2
‘3zIS|
ALUNYNO| ONIOVES) —wayaain $31I03dS INVid|  %|-TOSWAS
SINGSHOS ONILNVTd ALIMIOWS WUOLS
“90. S#) AMVNSOU WLSauOd| JYALSAYOS, SANRYWWASON) Oe
‘90.0 s# TIOJANONID ABANYHS) —- VSODLLMYS VTTNSLOd Ob
‘DO whe GH aovs seven veal OL
910 wre s# AINAAVAH LOWdNOO | _47N9, voUsaWwoa WNIONYN
2°0,2b vn SSVUO VANES .NOLLISIWY 30NO18., oz
" 3N18 NOILISWV 30NO18 silovyo WNOTaLnog
(dues
SaL0N| ONIOvdS| 1H) 3zIS aINVN NOWWOO AYN WOINVLO8) ASM -TOBNAS
WAWININ
ONIINVTd JdVOSLASULS aVYO LV
‘DO .zb HSNY WINHOSI TWO SNALWd SNONNE 00
(SUaLNVTd GaSIVe YANYOD 1SV3HLNOS) JOvHS AYA
TN
ABTW | ‘DOW LV ‘Old ONIda3YHO WIHIWNd SNS
tv a3sn
WZW1d
S3CIONINSVT
wane; NMOHS SW SNINSYP YVLS WNWaadSOTSHOVEL rN
SOveYsL
7A]
Nz
pyzvid | NMOHS sv ANIA 3LW1090HO VLYNINO VSS ING
ySNYOO
MS
90.9 ee AWUSEMVYLS HOVES SISN3OHO ViuvoVed aaa a 8 |
> SAA AA
J0.8b e#)_ SSVuO NOON NNALAY SrvNWALAY vies ooo
> 1 awe
OO 8h et YNIGNWN 38¥MG | _srn9, YoLLS3WOd YNIGNYN Cor
‘9'0 W8b cH SSWu9 WWD 318 silovy9 wnoTs.nog AASAAA
AAD AA
“9'0 W8b cH 39vS GNV1IG0OM WSONOWAN VIATYS wwwewel
D ATIOH 3S3NVAVE aa aaa
‘70 ..9€ Sf YaWODHONOL Liog | HONOL L4OS, VIWNSYO x31 COETS
(duds:
S3LON| ONIOVdS  X'LH) azIS AINYN NOWWOO AWN WoINvLoa| A34| TOBIAS
WNWININ:
SUALNVId GaSIve
AYVMG_INVOVN.
SS0VEuSL Madan Novo sh vow gun LYNOWNY
SNUYLID:
(S30VYNSL YAddN) EASHS JOYVT
(LSANSAV ISL 8
(e)1353M1S BHLNOS) 7 Nmors XO8.98) FIML LIANINYL INI) or MSNA
"FU BIUL LASS fo
(av ist NIV OL —{ + °

No S334 €) 133s.

&

SBLON ALLLNVND ONIOWES

3ZIS WOWININ|

33UL ONILSIXA

SINWN NOWNOO) SIN WOINVLOS, = TOSWAS.

SINGSHOS FUL

=

B STREET

>

Za
k's
‘aa
‘|
S| 4
A
A
‘ cy
‘s
7 x
‘*
ste
‘
‘3
lie
ren
» lle
4
ls
— = a
© i
SS ee ee ee



--- page 134 ---
00°e7

AaRHNN LHS

4yoo1d GNNOYS
- NV1d NOILVOIHI

‘INN LIS

NOILONYLSNOD
4YOd LON

ats
ow ‘AB 039959
ms ABN
oviozaee seHMN 193r0
‘swos

‘2oze2U0 WHORE’ HOS 13S NOKSSINNOD SHINN §
veozeso = WLUNENS3e NOLWONIdAY OMNIA»
ezizout ee WLUNENS3H NOLWONIdAY OMNIA &
ezuei20 22 LUNENSIE NOLWONIddY ONIN Z
sz0z01n0 “TWLUNENS3E NOLONIdeY ONIN 4
Nolivorddy ONIN
NOLAIOSSS

swoIss
veoze0s0 ‘suvo 3nss1
‘Pe TWLUNaNSS NOUVorIda¥ ONIN ‘ansst

LOvv6 VO ‘OSLVN NYS
LSFYLS 2° LS

LAFYLS €'S ZS

SSe=aay # aN 193708

LSSAUNVH

ea2e i'ma
og0z'vee'E0S
60226 4O pueHiOd
aNUAAY UBL MN SEL

JW 1d

sansno

ozs-eeu sty oas-r84 Sir
vey 000

Lite emowen
coseuely ues svouswy
e014 ty amseumiy
wong oud 09} md

NW

ios women a
LiVS'TR6'Sz6 x # SROE'EEC'SZO
Leste Vo PAI TEA
‘sjaerdl outae:> 0912

“OUT ‘SOpDIDOSSH NOURI "CNPSSH

Jjupipaswoy wouDS Lay

“ASV SdVOSANVT
OL SNOISIAZY 313 1dOD YO4 SLASHS IdVOSONVT OL. HASH SSVI LON

"NOILNYLSNOD

OL YOR ($!¥OIDVALNOD 1VI19319/TVAINIO HLM LINGNOD 4O NOILVTIVISNI
BLVNIGYOOD “LDV¥1NOD TV3I81D373 4IGNN NOULV3O1 aLVWIXOddV

SIHL OL ,2y 4ATIOXLNOD NOMLVOIAI WOd GATIVISNI GNV GaGIAOdd

39 OL TaVD JWIM-Z NOMVOWAl YO4 XO IDNdS GNV LINGNOD TwI!1DI7a SZ" L

* NOUDNAISNOD OL AORd ($!AOLDVALNOD ONISWMd/TWaINIO HIM,

Sddld 41O NOILVTIVISNI 3LVNIG¥OOD * LIVaINOD ONIGWNId 4IGNN GITIVISNI
NY GIGIAOAd 38 OL SABINVId 1337 ALIS DIAYIS OL NOLLVION SLVWIXOYddY
SIHL OL WOOS TYDINVH3W WOad NOLLVOIAI YOd LNO-US Adld 4IddOD ,SZ"L

* NOILINUSNOD

(Ol YOR ($\HOLDVALNOD ONIGWM1d/1783NIO HLIM S3dld 4O NOLLVTIVISNI
BLVNIGIOOD “LDV4LNOD ONISWNTd 4IGNN G3TIVLSNI GNV G3IGIAO’d 38

Ol 8 € 'Z STAAIT LV SYZLNVId YOd NOLLVOIYAl AOS SLNO-ANLS Adld YIddOD

"NOILDNILSNOD

(OL YONd ADIAYS TVDIILDITA 4O NOILVIO1 ALWNIGYOOD TIVHS YOLDVELNOD
NOWVORI “LDVaLNOD TVIILDIT3 83GNN NOILWIOT SIHL LV G3TIVISNI 31AN3S.
‘WORDT “'V LTIOA OZ L Ol 1D3NNOD “LDSLIKOAV Ag GaLDaId SV GNV GaTIVL3d
SV NOILV301 SIHL LV TIVM 4ORGINI NO INNOW *,2,, 83TIOYINOD NOILVOR!

“‘ISd SS 49 TIVHS dWNd AFLSOO8 JO 3GIS 3OAVHDSIG NO 3aNsssad
“SUIHLO AB dWNd ¥3LSOOS NOILVOWAl 4O NOLLWDOT ALWWIXO’deV

"WALSAS NOLLVOII YO YILNIAId MONI yl

“NOLW301 4a13W

aALVM AW AYNSSAYd DILVIS ISd XX ATALVWIXOSdEV LV Wd EL NVW3d
NOULVOIda WAWIXWW “441aW JO NOLLVIO1 LOVxa YOd SONIM VAC

AID OL 83494 "NOLLVIOT SLYWIXO¥ddY SIHL LV NOLWOIal 804 BIL

©eOSo © © ©

©

GN3931 SALON NV Id

AAV LSuld

is

om fii
Ee
io
SIE ci ‘lk:
ale
A
cc) | «
azo
z
wow ane sas
A
cil zi ‘1: i=
oO A
warp a) A
OUL SSH 3) a LS)
Wor
Wie
Sus aL
r H ™ r
OOM 88 [HSN ADNAN ‘ABGOT =
H H Hi] mil oe
YL =
4 4 ns +

B STREET

s>



--- page 135 ---
Loe7

‘ABBHNNLaRHS

JOVENAL 2 13A571
~ NW1d NOILVOINU!

INN LHS

NOILONYLSNOD
4yOd LON

amas
on "AB C3HO3H9
ms kN
ov uioenez :uaeHNN L93FOR
‘wos

WhOddeW 404 13S NOISSIANOD ONIN

a ne

swoIss

veoze0s0 ‘suvo 3nss1
Pe WLUINGNSRS NOUVOFad¥ NNN ‘ansst

LOvv6 VO ‘OSLVN NYS
LSFYLS 2° LS

LAAYLS €'S ZS

‘SSSuaay 8 ANN 1030

LSAAYVH

vw.

aNaro

ey'22e|d- mwa
og0z'vee'E0S
60226 4O pueHiOd
aNUAAY UBL MN SEL

JW 1d

olzs-eu sty oes-18z Sty
wey oo

Lite emowen,
‘cospuelg UES svouewu|
soo Wy ansaumiy
wong oud 09) md

NW

“ZSV9 ScVOSONVT
OL SNOISIAZY ALFANO HOd SL33HS IdVOSGNYT OL U343Y SSV3Td 'SLON

SINVId 3SMrNaLvMm aLvesG0N | a INOZOYGAH
SLNVId 3SN-UaLVMA MOT | _VANOZOUGAH

‘aNg057 SOvsN walvm |

* NOLDNALSNOD O1 ¥Olad
{S}¥OLDVaINOD ONIAWM1d/TVYINIO HLIM SAdid JO NOLLVTIVISNI ZLYNIGHOOD,
“IDVZINOD ONISWN1d 3IONN GITIVISNI GNY GIGIAOYd 38 Ol NOLLVIOT
BLVWIXO&ddV SIHL OL 13A1 3LIS 1V WOO8 TVDINVHD3W 3QISNI G31VO1

BATA TOINOD HOWSY WO'd NOLLVOWEI 40d S1NO-ENAS Bald YddO9 4 CD)

CN39371 SALON NV 1d

Ug



--- page 136 ---
wor wore uIeur wn
anne EHS LUMSTES'STH XY # sNOE"E6'SZO
26876 VO "RAID IME,
lcm outer) 0

OU] ‘SaNIDOSSY NYP 'C [PSMA

Sjupipnsuoy uOnDE ay

AOVEMAL € 13A51
~ NW1d NOILVOINU!

‘INN LIS

NOILONYLSNOD
4YOd LON

ats

ow ‘AB 039959
ms ABN
ovziozaee seHMN 193r0
‘swos

Sa

ra pr :
‘io Tif 7 ii] 7 SSS
4 |
OZER TWROde BOHL13S NOKSSHANOD ONNACE §
a WLLNensSuNoUoNdeY ONE > a
zwei eR WLINENSSENOUVONdeV ONE 2
sz0eunzie0 z <
zszouno ‘ ea
asin NOLWONIde¥ ON a
ET) NOTARIES
sone S
veces sivoanss
ewan NoUIvOrad ON snssl
LOvv6 VO ‘OSLVN NYS
ABFYLS 2°S LS
‘2400 9 31970
Fry [a pie
i
th UA
—_
er aneid: mwa
o80z'vee'€0s “
60226 8O PurROg ‘3SV@ SdVOSONVT
anuany MBL MN SEL OL SNOISIASY 3LFTdWOO HOS S133HS SdVOSCNV1 OL U34SY SSVITd 'SLON
SINVId 3S-NaLvMauvwacon | a ANOZONGAH
; SINYid 3sTraaLvin MOT | _V3NOZOUOAH
‘aNg057 SOvsN walvm |
oize-ees sty overex si
wed uo
Lubes ewoueo
pred sono * NOUDMISNOD OL YORId
oats «87 ampanpyy
1W0Ag oad 081 es (Sk}OLDVALNOD ONIEWNId/TVAINIO HLIM S3dld 4O NOLLVTIVISNI SLVNIGIOOD

“IDVaINOD ONISWMId BION GINVISNI GNV G3GIAOAd 34 OL NONVIOT
ALVWIXOUddY SIHL Ol 1331 ALIS LV WOOX TWOINVHDAW adISNI Gal¥O1 O

3ATVA TOSLNOD JLOWZY WOUI NOILVOIIA! OI SLNO-ANLS Adld Y3ddOD wl
NWI GN39S7 SALON NV1d



--- page 137 ---
£0°¢1

AaRHNN LHS

JOVeNAL 7 13A51
~ NW1d NOILVOINU!

‘INN LIS

NOILONYLSNOD
4YOd LON

ats
ow ‘AB 039959
ms ‘Aa NAYS
ovziozaee seHMN 193r0
‘swos

WhOddeW 404 13S NOISSIANOD ONIN
‘pe WLINenszu NOUWONdY ONINN

g
2
2

swoIss

veoze0s0 ‘suvo 3nss1

Pe WLUINGNSRS NOUVOFad¥ NNN ‘ansst

LOvv6 VO ‘OSLVN NYS
LSFYLS 2° LS

LAFYLS €'S ZS

SSe=aay # aN 193708

LSAAYVH

Wy

ey'22e|d- mwa
og0z'vee'E0S
60226 4O pueHiOd
aNUAAY UBL MN SEL

JW 1d

NSN

ozs-eeu sty oas-r84 Sir
vey 000

Lite emowen
cosuelg UES svouswy
e014 ty amseumiy
wong oud 09} md

NW

“3SV8 JdVOSCNVI
OL SNOISIAZY 313 1dNOD YO SLISHS SdVOSGNYT OL YA4IY SSVI SLON

SINVId 337-NaLWM aLvu3GON | @ 3INOZONGAH
SINVidasraaLvm MOT | WANOZOUGAH |

‘aN3057 SOvsn walvm |

“ NOILDINALSNOD O1 YONd
(S)¥OLDVYLNOD ONIAWN1d/1VANIO HLIM Sadid JO NOLLYTIVISNI ALVNIGZOOD
“IDVaLNOD ONIEWNTE BIGNN GATIVISNI GNY GAGIACY 39 OL NOLWIOI
ALVWIXOUdd¥ SIHL OL 13A37 3LIS LY WOO’ TVDINVHD3W AGISNI G31V301

BATA TOXINOD ROWE WORS NOIVOREI YOs SLNO-ANIS adld Yd6O9 41 CL)

GN3931 SALON NV 1d

fea

ame



--- page 138 ---
|

AaRHNN LHS

GN3937 GNV
SALON NOILVOIUI

‘INN LIS

NOILONYLSNOD
4YOd LON

ats
ow ‘AB 039959
ms ‘Aa NAYS
ovziozaee seHMN 193r0
‘swos

veozezuo
veozeso
exozeoih

WhOddeW 404 13S NOISSIANOD ONIN
‘pe WLINenszu NOUWONdY ONINN
‘ WLUINEnSzu NOUWaNddY ONINN
‘e WLUNENSRE NOLWONddY ONINN

“TWLUINNS3E NOLVONde¥ ONIN
Nolivorddy ONIN

ave NOLAIOSSS Ww
swoIss

veozeaso ‘suvo 3nss1

Pe WLUINGNSRS NOUVOFad¥ NNN ‘ansst

LOvv6 VO ‘OSLVN NYS
LSFYLS 2° LS

LAFYLS €'S ZS

SSe=aay # aN 193708

LSAAYVH

NSN

ozs-eeu sty ogs-rex str
vey 000

6 eMoIeD
coseuely ues svouswy
e014 ty amseumiy
wong oud 09} md

wos von
LLOS'TEE'STS XL @ S¥6E'6EB'STO I
Lose VO PA!D
orgnicy Ourw O9Le

‘DU ‘saNmDossy YPN "A [PSSA

"NOILVW8OSNI 34OW YO4 11VL30 NOLD3NNOD,

‘ONIANL ANITdldG OL 43498 “G3GRIN Fav SYIGVIH LSNHX3/AlddNS
DAd ON GNV Wdd € NVHL SS31 SI INOZ dl¥d N3HM ATddNS Ad
NY ONIENL ANITdl¥d N33M198 LNIOd NOILDINNOD 3LWWIXOddd¥
3ATVA TOXLNOD 3LOW3S SNIdIIG

"NOLLWW8OSNI

YSHLUNS YO STIVIIA JAS “GIINOI JI MOTI ZONVIVE OL SINOZ
dl4d TI¥ 4O SNA 3HI Ol SYIGV3H DAd GNALXa “SONILLI GAM
AN3ATOS DAd OF "HDS 3S “DAd SISIXTII OF HIS y L YO DAd OF HS
| 3@ TIVHS SaaQV3H ISNVHX3 TY ‘Wedd 0 SZ WdD 01-0 4L
'SMOTIOS SV S43GV3H ISNVHXa AZIS “STIVLEC OL ONIGIOIIV AD
‘DO ..ZL V NIZQV8S MOTAS 7 GATIVISNI 34 OL ONISNL 7 LZ-dO8H
I 183SNI 000210 HLIM 3NMdldd $3l4aS 000210 OXOL
5INOZ 414d

BATVA TOULNOD 3LOWAY ANMdIIG

SLNVId 3S7-U31WM SLveaGOW | a NOZOYGAH
SINVId 3Sf-831vM MOT | _v3NOZOYGAH
Na931 39OVSN YaLVM,
SUNALX3 3NOZ 4O

aNOZ dig /HDLVH 40109

‘aalv1 Dvd
# NOILVLS

‘SUNALX3
3NOZ dtd

3NOZ4O
HDLVH 3010

‘TVaaLVv1 DAd
# NOILVLS

"BUNLONALS HONOAHL ONILNOA YOI *INGNOD

SNV1d TvD1M1D373 33S ‘AINO 3N34a434 YO4 NMOHS: Word
"AIAOD JO H1daC Adid YOs SAOLY
GALVIIGNI Sv AO SNOILVIISIDIdS NI G3LVDIGNI

SV 34 OL YIAOD “Fdld DUSWId DAd OF F1NGIHDS *ONIARTIS

“8AOD ZL
“SONILLIY G13M LNJATOS DAd OF FINGRHOS

HLIM ddld DUSVId DAd OF ZINGIHDS"OZ LL *3NITWaaLVT

— noo—— noo—— noo—

“SNV1d NOISAG NOLLVOI&al GNV 3¢VDSGNV1 HL NI gaLVM,

4O 3SN LNaDI4a 3H1 AO4 W3HI GallddW GNV SONWNIG3O ONIdVISANV1
NINOUVAYSSNOD Y3LVM SHL JO WIIBLID SHL HIM GalldWOD 3AVH |

"DO .ZL_LV G3DVdS dl4G INNNI HLM GALWOE! 3d OL :LN3WIWIAL BILWMWAOLS "E
“S¥3189NG JANOS INIOd ONISN G3LVOM! 34 Ol *S39Y1 NV SENYHS JOVI 'Z
lad aNNNI
HUM CALVO 3d OL ‘SINVId ONIEIMOTS/YIAODINNOYD/SANYHS 3SN-YILVM ILVYIGOW GNV MOT"L
‘SaNOZ NOILVOWAl

"4aTIOALNOD

TWNOIINIANOD V HLIM NWHL LVM BOW %S7 JAWS YIOVNYW 3dVISONV1 SHI d73H TIM WAISAS
GaSva-43HLV3M JO 3dAL SIHL ONIZITLN “SNOILIGNOD Y3HIVIM ATIVA NO GaSV9 S3ATVA 3HL 4O SaWLL NN
BHL ASMIV OL ¥3HLVaM T¥DOT S3SN WAISAS SIHL 3OVNVW TIM LWHL 43TIOXLNOD 3HL “3GIM 1d OL NVHL
‘SS31 3aV SVI8V NOLUN3L34O1d JONIS “D'O ZL LV G3DVdS 48 INNNI HUM GLVORal 38 THM NOUNII33O18
TI “dl 3NMINI LN3IDIS43 ATHOIH GNV ONIAYSSNOD YFLVM HIM GALVOR 3a THM S438 ONUNVTd

TIWS TIV “JONVNIGHO Ya1VM ALVIS 3HL HIIM ONIATEWOD LN3WdINO| NV SUOHIAW NOLLVOR&AL

JO SAdAL ONIMOTIOS FHL 4O LSISNOD TIM W3ISAS BHI “ADNIDIT GNV NOILVAY3SNOD Y3LVM,

NI ADOIONHDAL 18411 3HL HLIM G3NOISIG 34 TIM ALIS SIHL YOd W31SAS NOLWOISY! G3SOdOd FHL

JAILVaaVN NOISAC NOILVOIal

VY

TIT Riso
Te0z Vauy WIOL
ae RX Wa WIO|
~ SvaeW 3avOSONVT WINOTY
Suoneino1e9 ava
AtddS/SHOLOWSL0) KONTO NOUWORN = 3 oa] wo oe
<turETIaRNE (0) AONAIOISS NOOR = at [Giwrianoo | woLova LNvid 31s | AONaIOWIa |
mw | Nouvor 3118
(YALA OSISNOTIVD) HOLOWS NOISHBANOO = 79°0 (YALA DS/SNOTIVS) HOLOW4 NOISHSANOD = 790
(14'S) Wau SNOZONGAH = YH (4334 3uvNDS) Wey G3dvOSONV1=V1 Cid ‘MAIS
S3NOZOUGAH YO HOLOWS LNVId = de woLovs INANUSNOY 13 =390 ro} WALa3E SHO nwa
NOUYIASNYELOdVAa SONSUSITY = O13 NOUWaldSN¥ALLOdWAS BONSUSITE = O18 God WASNOTWO
(v1 v1a)(@9 O13) =A [vis x $¢°0) + (Sr'0 x WIIZ9 0X03) = VMN
weak ‘wvak waa shoTWO WAIGOH
ad SNOTIVO (q4Ua) aSN ¥BLYM TWLOL GALYHULSS (wind aonymoTiy WBLWM GaNadY HOY _ —
Winwyos NL WANWNOS VM ‘UALS SUV vain
BASNOTWO
LJ o ‘SWLOL
% 1 :
‘Bmw aNOZOWGAH | _—# SNOZONOAH
‘Sway 2avosany7 woads|
or we | 00 | ome co 10% swat
var ves 10o ze | ore 750 [= [seme] so [cow cai .
aE = 70] eat or oe azo wo] aa 7 HOT NouNAI3uO8 5
az wa] wo] oe a 7 790 wo] ae 7 ‘cow Sorsanais z
waz as 100 | ome ra Reo wo [ax 7 MOT Sorsanais +
{
avosanw wax} wAnvaT honstuua) down | Gawoibvap saaLaen
soaovinaousd | YAH | ysasquoy| anus _|(WH) vauY x via] (Gude) a3 INoUvoRR NoMWORSI| INvId —|asuvmaiNyia)| SAWN 3NOZOBOAH  aNOZONGAH

‘sau 3avosaNvi uvINDaA|

OAV ONY ,v/E aNndiia
"ABAD ZL
"SONILLE GTI IN3ATOS DAd OF 31NG3HDS
HLIM Adld DILSWId DAd OY FINGIHDS-OZ | L
ROUTAN wP/€ “NIT Taal
"8BAOD BL
"SONILLId TEM LNAATOS DAd OF 3INGBHOS
HLIM Jéld DUSVId DAd OF FINGIHDS-OZ LL
24ITIWWS GNY ,S°L SN NW
"FANIONALS HONOSHL ONUNO' YO
SNVId ONIaWM1d 3S ‘ATNO DN3UISTY YO NMOHS
"SONILLIS LHONOM HIM Adld 43ddOD 9, I6AL
SATIS GNV SL aNINW) —)— 1) — 1) —
AATVA TOYLNOD SLOWAY G3LVIDOSSV¥ 4°
(14 OS) VIE,
ONIDVeS SNITdI4d 2° (4H/NI) BLVa NOLWOMdd¥
3NOZ 4O NOILV3IsISSV1D 3811 IW, ee
(wad) MOTS He [» |p
(S3HONI NI) 3ZIS 3ATVA TOSLNOD SLOW3Y
a3EWNN NOILVIS ANY ¥aTIOMLNOD
AOSNAS NIVd SS3134IM TOLLS 0001-S4 @
SNOMONASNI
NOILVTIVISNI AO TIW130 OL 43s3a “SBATVA N33ML38 G3MOTIV
ABV S3DI1dS ON ,00% A¥IAa GALWIOT 3B TIVHS $3XO8 TNd “INGNOD
‘WOIKLDT OF HOS ,SZ"L NIHLIM F18VD 381M Z TIVISNI TNO
CAO AdaV YO SLIX IMS SOOSIILWM 9-A/Y9G W-E HLIM VW 3
TIVHS ONDDINES TIV "7 L-8VD-ML SI TIGOW GN SV 3a ORBIaad
"YOLONGNOD-Z GALAYOV! V HLIM 381M OMVY L# AZIS “SBATVA SNVIé
TOYLNOD 3LOWY TIV OL AT8VD AIM OML ALSYW NIVY 3LNOY NO NMOHS LON -
“SNOILDNLSNI NOLLVTIVISNI 4Od STIV130 OL 8398
(NIWW ONOTY 1334 009 AIAT L) YOLSIVIV ONINSLHOIT ABLSWW NIV Lyra -
(4313901 Ga¥a1SM1D 3aV SIATVA 3A0W
4O L NVHL34OW N3HM 3SN) 4300330 NOILWIS OM aa1S¥W Nive OM _
(aA1VA aad 1) 4300930 NOILVLS STONIS aa1SVW NIVE Laem _
"ADIAMRS TVYINAD-I BaLSVW NIVa
SaV3A JAH GNV LD) NOLLVSINAWWOD THD ‘dav3"1 SIGNTONI ‘FENSOTONA TWALNaDI-d3
‘WLS3Gad 1441S SSTINIVIS V NI 8ITIOYLNOD SM1d F1OVA ASW] NIVa /S-M1-d93 ®
AYOSNAS MON DAd vt DBWOTH 01-00zs0
(N3dO ATIVWAON) ,L-3ATVA YSLSWW YORIdNS: 00100LE
“aNvia
BT3RRd HLIM ATEW3SSV MOTENOVE FUNSS3Yd GINGA SNDTIM HMASTIXSLS i]
3AIVA TVA SSVad | OD8IN 4T-VOO9ds"1 bd
(¥3A09 4399N3 ONDOOT
MOTIAA) BAIVA ONMENOD ADIND 3D31d-OML W/E Tala NIV’ paaree >
¥ALTId NaS 4 LV ONY (isd OF) S-OSLOLSSIV-L
YOLVINDAY FUNSSTad HLIM FATWA TOSLNOD SLOW SS¥8A OYOL /¥O-22-02% it
AALS LV ONY (ISd OF) JOLVINDA FUNSSTAd “IAIVA
TOULNOD BLOWS S3I43S 002 TOULIS’ HLIM LP BNOZ did O8OL 4W-002-¥Z0 a
ATWA TOULNOD SLOWAY O8OL SARIS 97-02E-4 8
4WV1D GNA LHD FIND O8OL 91OreL -
“IAIN dQIS HLIM\ YOLWDIGNI 3NNidl’d dN-dOd OXOL, ONratia-0Zs a
TWNDA G3AOddY AO SATVA TIVA OY HOS SAN. L00s0-M|  +@
BAVA 431128 IV ANMdIIG OXOL vE-O0S-GAL| <0
“Bzis 331 ad S¥TTaeng
4O ALLNWN® aO4 TIv13a
‘aaT@ane OL 4394 “3FAL
SOWL oe sto ¥3d Z 'NIW ‘BTEEN OYOL Ad DES 1-80 .
(ua34) sniava isd wad NOUelaDs3q §BEWON TEGOW | Toawas
ONUVaadO —_[ONUVaadO] _FIZZON

GN3931 NOILVOIAl

re 013 ais
wiavioa [aaa wave

NOILVWILSS SSN Y3LVM

SNOILVINDTVD ASN ASLVM NOILVOIal

"AOLDVYINOD NOILVOISE! Ad GILFTEWOD 38 TIVHS YITOBLNOD
NV S3ATVA TOYLNOD 4LOWAY OL ONIIM AO NOLLDINNOD
TNH "TISVD IOVIIOA MOT JO 34A1 GNV 3ZIS LINGNOD
G3YINDIY 31VDIGNI SONIMVAG FHL “34NONWIS NIFIM ONY
$3XO8 TINd ‘LINGNOD 3AIAOYd TIVHS YOLIWALNOD WWIII *E

“daYINOF SV GOONdYALWM

3d TIVHS SINIOd NOWLV4L3Nad TIV “NOWDNYISNOD 3H! OL

4OINd GITIVISNI GNV G3LYNIGYOOD 38 TIVHS S¥4LNV1d 39V1d NI
GFINOd YO 1SVIIUd NIHLIM SLINGNOD YO SAATIS NOLWORAL Z

“dAYINO SV GHOOYIIALWM

39 TIVHS SLNIOd NOILValaN3d TV “318ISSOd 383HM SIINVId

NIHLIM 38 OL 3dld JO LIX3 “SNOUVIOI INO aMs JO NOLLVIO1

BLWWIXO&ddY 4O4 SNVTd NOLO! OL YIIIY “JUNLINALS

HL HONOHL ONUNOA LIVX4 AOI ONIMVAG ONIGWNId

YO d3W OL ¥343Y GOD ONIGWNId Yad SANLDNALS V NIHLIM 3S

8Od G3AOYddV 34 TIVHS TISILVW did “BANLONVIS FHL NIKLIM,
‘ONIdid THY TIVISNI GNV 30IAQad TIVHS YOLDVALNOD ONIGWNId “L

SALON NOILVNIGYOOD NOILVOIIal

“SNOILVDO1 318V1d3V S3AIAOYd
ADALIHD8V AdVDSANV1 INN TIVISNI LON Od ‘NOLLVTIVISNI
Ol YORd LDaLIHDaV 3éVISGNVT HLIM XO8 3ATVA V NIHLIM
ANWISNI SIN3NOdWOD NOILWVOILAI TIV 4O SNOWLVION AdIgSA “CE

“G3HSM@VISI ATINADHJNS 3aV SLNWId 3HL
AUN Svaav SNMéI4G NIKLIM TWRaLVW LNVid Ty JO ONLY.
ONVH IINIWATAdNS YO 318ISNOdSIY 38 TIVHS YOLDVSLNOD TE

“ALIS WOU INaWdINDA ANY STVIIaLWW Sidans
‘slugad ‘HSWal Tl 3AQWA ‘CaLD9aId 38 AWW SV S3WIL Y3HLO.
HONS GNV G3131dWOD N339 SVH NOULDIS SIHL JO XIOM NIM *

“WWAQUdA YOd NOLLVTIVISNI Ol 4ORd SIONVHD G3ISOdO’d

3HL 4O LNVLINSNOD NOUVOIRAL GNW 1D]LIHDYW 3dVISGNV1 3HL

AAILON TIVHS 8OLDVALNOD 3HL "SNOLLIGNOD OS GNV 3d01S

Sv TIM Sv “D1 ‘S3381 ‘SaSISAL ‘SONIGIING WOad 38NSOaXa

SW HONS SNOLLIGNOD 3LIS ONILSIXa SH1 NI SNOLLVIIVA OL

3N@ ONINOZ 3ATVA GNV LNOAVT NOILWORII SHL NI S3ONVH
YOd FGISNOdSIA 34 TIVHS YOLDVALNOD 3dVISGNV1 3HL “OF

"DLa 'S2YNSOTONA TVDIILD31a ‘SNOIS ‘SINVAGAH 3¥td

‘SLHON SV HONS SONIMVUG NOILVOIAal 3HL NO NMOHS LON

SNOLLDNYISAO OL 3NG LNOAV] NOLO! 3HL NI SJONVHD
YONIW YO4 51GISNOdSIY 34 TVHS YOLWALNOD 3dVISANV13HL “67,

“S# TWAS ¥O1D3¥ 38 TIVHS GNNOSWOD INVIV3S GVISHL Idld “87

“ATONIHODDV GIISNFAY 34 OL CARN AVW 3ZIS
3HL NOUNYISNOD ANY ONDWLS ONIN 8NIDO INOAVT NI
SIONVHD SV “TWDIdAL SI SONIMVE 3HL NO NMOHS ONIZIS did “ZZ

“SONIMV&A HL NO NMOHS LVHL WO8 NOILVYIOT ANI NIVW

‘ONILSIXA 4O NOILVIAR ANW ONILIM NI LD3LIHDIW OL LIOd3a

“CIAL NI NIT NIVW ONUSIXd 21V901 GNY AdldaA “SILYWwyaovI
‘SI SONIM Vd 3HL NO NMOHS 3NIT NIVW ONIISIX3 3HL “97

“SNW1d OL 43434 GNVW3d NOLO! “SZ

“"AAILVINAS34d3¥ G3ZIMOHLNV

S,83NMO JHL OL NOLDINNOD JO LNIOd NOILVOIAI

BHL LV ONIGV3Y 34NSSIYd TWNIDV FHL GNV SONIMVEG

3HL NO GALVSIGNI 38nSSaad 83LWM 3HL N33M13@ SDNYRIIC

ANY L3Od3a "NOMLDNAISNOD OL OW FUNSSAd YILVM ASIIIA,

"SONIMVAC NOILVOIYA! 3HL NO NMOHS 38nSS3ad ONILVAadO
WNWINIW 3HL NO G3S¥8 SI NOISIG W31SAS NOLWONY! SHL “Pz

"IDIAIG NOLNAATad MOTENDVE GITIVISNI
4O ONIISAL GNV NOLLD3dSNI YOd SNOUDIASIINS TVIOT AMON “EZ

“SVANVD 4O dvTNE
13M HLIM 3381 3H OL LNaDVfG¥ HONAYL 3HL 4O 30S 3HL IAVHS:
"B1aISSOd LON SI SIH 383HM “S8NOH (¥Z) 3NOS-ALNAML NIHLIM,
YL OL IN3DVIGV S3HONIUL TI XDVE "ANDDO SLOOY AIO
ONY HONI (2) OMLSBIHM SVIYV NI GNVH Ad JIWAWXA SLOOY
39aL GNV S331 OL AYNINI GIOAV OL NOLNVD 3SN ’S33aL
‘ONUSIXE OL ANIDVIGY BIVAVIXa OL ANVSSEOIN SILI RYBHM "TZ

“UAL SSIDX3 4O/GNV

NOISOAa ASV THM JOWNIVIG LINO MOT 3aBHM S3IEWaSS¥
¥ASIA AIDINIAdS NI JATVA 9OZHD GIAVOT ONKAdS T¥NOI
CaAOYMdV YO ‘S3IVAS AD 19 ‘S3!VIS ADH YSINNH V TIVISNI

“HAL YO INV1d 4O FAIS THHdN NO $4aTasna 31VDOT “Oz

"HNOZ 108LNOD
HOV 4O4 SYNSSIAd ONLLVAIO WNWLLEO SHL NIVIEO OL
3ATVA HOV] LV TOXINOD MOS 3HL SILLOYHL GNV SNOLLIGNOD
ALIS ONUSIXA 3HL Lid OL SMIGVa GNV Dav 3HL 4O 338930
1839 3HL LD373S “SONIGTING YO/ANV ‘SAVMAVOY ‘SHV,
OLNO AVadS YIAO LNIATId OL GNW JONWWAOSTd WAWILdO
8Od SFIZZON ANY SIFTLNO NOLLVOII ISATY GNV HSM “6

“SIIVI3G NOILDNYISNOD NI G31ON
SV NOILVOLNSGI aLWiadOdddV HLIM SAN XO8 3ATVA TY
dWVIS ATIN3NVWaad TIVHS YOLDVYINOD HL “JIM TOXLNOD
OL 138V1 HOVLLV ‘[¥38WNN NOILWIS ONY 43TIOSLNOD)
ATA 4O 838WNN NOILVOISILN3G! ONILVDIGNI ‘OVL “C't
ANVHIBYNAIOd ,/€ 7 X w¥/L ZV HLIM SATWA TOXLNOD SLOWSY
HOVA LV 381M NIT TO8LNOD TEV TIVHS YOLDVELNOD 3HL “81

(araissod
YIM SVI¥V NMAVT GIOAY) SV3¥V 8NYHS/4IAOD ANNOY
NITIVISNI ‘DLLWWWY¥aOVIG 34V NMOHS SNOLLYDIOTSAIVA “ZL

"aanvad
JdVISGNV1 YO ONIGTING “84ND “VM OL TATIVaVd S3XO8 JATVA,
BVINONV1D3a JO 30IS LAOHS 3HL NOMY “SdOL XO8 N3IMLId
uZL 30IAQYd ONW 3UNLVa4 3dVDSANV1 AO ONITING ‘43ND KVM.
3H1 WOXd 3ONVISIO TVNOA NV XOS HDV3 TIVISNI 'S4NO#D

XO¥ 3ATVA aIdILINW LV “AYNLWad 3dVDSGNV1 40 ONICIING

‘98ND MVM WOUS ZL S3XOB IATVA TOYLNOD SLOWAA TIVISNI

‘TVNOA GIADYddV YO NOSYVD ‘SAN JANTONI S,83IUIVINNVW
XO¥ 3ATVA aTEV1d392V ’SLNO XDONX JAVH TIVHS AGOS

XO8 “JATVA TOSLNOD NOULVOIR!, G3XIWW YIAOD GIONIH
NON ‘NMOG 1104 HIM $3XO8 3ATVA DUSVTd XOVI8 TIVISNI

°$3XO8 TiNd TIV NI dOO1 NOISNVdXa ONOT PZ,
W GNV 3DI1dS HDV3 LV 38M 4O OD ONOT bz V 3AV31“AINO.
S3XO9 3ATVA NI GRLLIWYAd SI-F8IM-Z G3ISXOV! JO ONIONS

"YO1D3NNOD
JOORIYILYM 9/48 V HLIM Fa1M GNNOYO FHL OL FDIAI
3OANS 3HL 1DaNNOD OL G3SN 34 OL NOUD3NNOD 1108 AN1dS

¥ ‘NOILVDOT ONIGNNOAD HVI Lv AOLSIaW IONS V IGNTONI
“¥300D3G/3D1A9d 3D4NS OL FIM YaddOD 9# "GOA ONIGNNOAD.
VID 83ddOD .8 X .8/F V HLIM GNNOXS “HLd 38M Z 3HL

JO GNI BHI LV 4O ¥3IGODIG ASV BHI LV GNV YITIOBNOD JHL
LW ‘1334 009 AYIAI GIGIAOAd 34 TIVHS ONIGNNOAD ¥IGODIG

“LDHIDINdS JOOUANTLVM. 9°A/48C WE HLM 3VW

34 TIVHS ONDDIIdS TV “dZZ0Zé DadS ‘JaIM NOWLVOIAl 3OIVd SHL
‘SI 73GOW ONV 3VW SIM GNIS ‘YOLINGNOD"Z a13IVE
V HLM FIM OMVP L# 3ZIS “NNO¥O NI WINS 19441 YOF
TWAOAddY “TN HLIM 83409 NOS ‘S3¥IM TOLNOD NOLLVORI

"SNOLLDINNOD 381M AVM 38H.
AW 318VD 3aIM OML ZDINdS ATNO ‘NOUD3¥IG NI SONVHD AYaAA
AW GNV ,002 A¥IA3 XOS TINd TWI141DI13 AIS 61%, LV TIVLSNI

“WYO JOO’dYTLVM HLIM SONINIdO.
AINGNOD TV 13S “X08 3ATVA HVA 4O INO GNV NI S433MS
ONOTHLIM LINGNOD ,$2"L NIHLIM 318V 34IM-7 TIVLSNI

“ONILAW
NOWDNALSNOD-34d V SOs FALLVINASIYAIY YITIOALNOD
ADWINOD “3NII NIVW 3HL ONOT 3189 FalM-Z TIVISNI

“YBTIOALNOD NOULVOIAAl 3HL JO NOILV8dO GNV
ONIWWV8908d 43dO¥d FHL NO NOWLOINYISNI 8O4 AUIS 3HL LV
YOLDVAINOD NOILWONAI HL GNV YINMO FHL ‘AOLDVALNOD

SONVNAINIVW 3HL ‘838A LW4NNWW Y3TIOUINOD NOWLVORAL

HL 4O S3AILVIN3S¥d3Y SFONTONI HOIHM ONIZRW V 3INGIHDS

“SNOMDNISNI SYFINLDVINNVW YITIONLNOD
aad SV G3YINOY 3ZIS NV 3dAL ‘ALLINWNO ASN ‘SaANTIVS
¥3MOd AdVAOEWAL ONRING ASOWIW NI WVADO4d NIVLIY
(OL (S)¥aTIOALNOD NOMLVOIA! 3H NI S3I¥aLLV@ MaN TIVISNI

"3000 1v901
HLIM 3NVYODD¥ NI GNY SNOLLDNALSNI $833 VINNWW
YITIOYLNOD ¥3d ONIGNNOYD ¥3dOdd IAIAO’d “(S)¥ITIOALNOD
BHL OL LNO-8MAS ADIAYAS TVIILDITA 3H BLVNIGYOOD

‘Ol YOLDVAINOD NOUVONE! FHL JO ALMBISNOdSTA

BHL SI 11 (S)NOIVIOT YITIONINOD 3HL Ol SDIAYIS TVIIALDITI
(4aN1OAINOD 43d GNYWIG dWY $°Z) ‘D°V LIOA 0Z | SIAOUd OL
YOLDVYINOD TIR1DITA GASNADM V JO ALMMISISNOdSY SHI SI Lt

"24NSOdXa NIM GNV JQVHS ‘NS ‘sad01S

“SANNOW ‘SLNAWAYINDTE BALM “IVRELYW INVId ‘S3ONVHD.
YBHLV3M TVNOSVAS 8Od WV8OO8d FHL OL SLNSWISNTOV
ONDIVW SAGNIONI SIH “HLIV3H LNVId GOO NIvISns

OL G3G33N 431VM JO INNOWY WNWINIW JHL 3GIAO’d OL
(slg3TIOALNOD NOLLVOWAI 3HL WVIDOAd OL YANO YO/ANV
YOLDVYINOD FONVNAINIVW SHI JO ALITIGISNOdS3Y BHI SI LI

HLW3H LNV1d
O09 NIVISNS OL GaKINDIY YBLVM 4O LNNOWW WAWINIW
3HL FIAO¥d OL SI WALSAS NONLVOIRA! SIHL 40 IN3INI SHL

TRalww
ANVid dO NOLWTIVISNI OL AOId GalSal GNV G3TIVISNI

39 TIVHS WALSAS NOILVOIAl ‘GIINDI Jv SNOILIGAY

40 ‘SNOILTTAG 'SIONVHD ANY 4I BNIW3190 OL NOIDNYLSNOD
OL YOWd AALLVIN3SYd3Y G3ZIIOHINY S,YINMO CNV
YOLDVALNOD FHL AS GAYD3HD 39 TIVHS LNOAVT NOWVORAL
SHL “SIN3WN1DOG LVaLNOD NY ‘SONIMVAC aS3HL HLIM,
JONVGYOIIV NI ONINVTd JO IDVaAIAOD NOILWOR! WYOSINN,
‘ONY 31F1dWOD 39 THM FU3HL LVHL 38NSNI OL STVIIILVW INVTd
3HL JO NOLLVTIVISNI NV LNOAV1 HLIM WaLSAS NOLLYORIAL
JO NOILVTIVISNI 3LVNIGAOOD TIVHS YOLIVYINOD 3HL

“SNONLVINOA GNV

$309 3S3HL HLIM SONVI1dWOD 3HL Ag G3¥INOIY NIHM YORVT
ONY TVI83L VW TYNOILIGGY ANY ‘398VHD ValX3 ANV LNOHLIM
HSIN4Nd TIVHS YOLDVYLNOD 3HL “SNOLLVINOI YO $30
3S3HL OL ONIWAOSNOD LON WHOM LIWaad OL GINILSNOD

3 OL SI SONIMVG 3S3HL NI ONIHION “SNOLVINO RY

YO SMYT 1¥IO1 AO ALVIS YIHLO UNV ‘NOLVIDOSSV ST¥IDISIO
‘ONISWN1d N&aLS3M 3HL AB G3HSIIANd ‘GOD ONIEWNId
W8OSINN BHI $3GOD DI1D379 TWNOILWN 3HL 4O SNOILVIND3Y
‘ONY S31M’ 1S31V13HL HLM SDNV8OIIV TiNd NI 3@ TVHS
STVISALWW GNV OM TIV “SNOILVINDY GNV ‘SaaVANVIS
'$40OD F1aVDNlddW NIV HIM AldWOD TIVHS YOLDVALNOD 3HL

“SNOISIAY GEYINOIA AOd AL!MGISNOASAY TINd SaWNSSV
YOLDVALNOD FHL ‘G3W8O8Id LON 34V SNOILYDISLON

ASJHL IN3A@ 3HL NI ‘NOMDNYISNOD 340438 S3IMLINALS

ONY ONIAVd ‘SAVMVOR ‘STIVM YIGNN YO HONOYHL S3AIRTS
40 LINGNOD ‘3dld SO NOLLVTIVISNI GNV NOILWDO1 3HL 304
SYOLDVYLNOD aTaVINTddV HLIM 2AOM LOVYINOD NOWLVORAL
SLVNIGAOOD ANY AJILON “SNOMLVDISIDIdS LWALNOD

3HL OL ONIGIODOV GNV FAILVINASFId3Y G3ZIIOHIAV S,8INMO
3HL JO TWAOYddV GNV NOLLVDIILON Ag ATONIGEOIIV

YOM NOLLVTIVISNI 3H NV1d ‘SINaWN1D0d LOV4LNOD

HLIM ADNVda4SIC C1ald 4O IN3Ad 3H NI “S3DN3¥3I0
TWNOISNAWIC V3 YO SIDNIVIIIG JAWAD ‘SNOWINAISEO.
NIGNONI OM 1DVELNOD FHL ONLDI44V NOLIGNOD
SHSINIS GNW TV4NLONUS 3HL 3LVOUSZANI

38 AVW HOIHM SWALI 33HLO GNV ‘LINGNOD ‘S3A3I1S ‘SONILLI
"$1384 TV 3LVDIGNI OL 3141SSOd LON SI LI ‘SONIMVaG

SHL JO TIVDS FHL OL 3N "Sv3¥Y ONLUINVId NIHLIM GaTIVLSNI
39 OL 34V GNV ATNO ALIWW1D DIHdV¥O BO SVIBV GAVE
NIHLIM NMOHS 28 AW SLNJNOdWOD NOLLWORI JHLO CNV
'SIAIVA ‘ONIdld TI “GATIVISNI 34 O1 ¥AOM FHL JO FALWDIGNI
ONY DILVWW¥a9VIC 3aV SONIMVAG NOMI! aSIHL

SALON NOILVOII

OL

st

+L

el

ZL

l


--- page 139 ---
soe1 V

AaRHNN LHS

silvilad
NOILVOINUI

‘INN LIS

NOILONYLSNOD
4YOd LON

ats
ow ‘AB 039959
ms ‘Aa NAYS
ovziozaee seHMN 193r0
‘swos

veozezuo
veozeso
exozeoih

WhOddeW 404 13S NOISSIANOD ONIN
‘pe WLINenszu NOUWONdY ONINN
‘ WLUINEnSzu NOUWaNddY ONINN
‘e WLUNENSRE NOLWONddY ONINN

“TWLUINNS3E NOLVONde¥ ONIN
Nolivorddy ONIN

a ne

swoIss

‘suvo 3nss1
‘snssi

veozeaso
Pe WLUINGNSRS NOUVOFad¥ NNN

LOvv6 VO ‘OSLVN NYS
LSFYLS 2° LS

LAFYLS €'S ZS

SSe=aay # aN 193708

LSAAYVH

NSN

ozs-eeu sty oas-r84 Sir
vey 000

6 eMoIeD
coseuely ues svouswy
e014 ty amseumiy
wong oud 09} md

3NON 3128 ax NON :1v>! 3NON 3IV3S 3NON 31v3S
adddHLVaM ANOZdldd) JATVA TOALNOD JLOWSa
-WvOs JOOadeaIVM HII ¥IN¥OD HVA NO INO ©
SONINO LINGNOD TI¥ 1vas — e
® Seb E SIG ® (0387035 SI ALAVHL ATEWASSY ZONES TWN 193 “FAL DAd OV Tina3HDs aaAOadev dn ©
BavNOS [wwwE 1] ,Z/1 3ONVD BL
LNTINN 4¥D 3SOTD GNV S3TOH LIX FBIM NI-FANL LIXS HIHM S38IM\ 3DVId “7 Nivw
(xo BAVA My jtos ON) anv "3a 3HL JO WOLLOA (unt ANOZ ¢l4d NI G3GMONI aaLi-A ©) aNTINWW Ad @)
tins mae Natt ‘aM OLN! «8d, ONVad 3HL LV G3LV3S SI GNV S¥3DNId ONDDOT 1S¥d G3HSNd N33a SVH YOLDINNOD *BINGOD HOS LDKG Q
Nivad [wwoz] w/t 20 waved vad @ yan ‘an NOM HOM LIAN KOR AIMONOD NIBIAVD BUA OML® | ng ayvw OL YOIHD “FAN GITIEMD 4 WOLLOH OL ATEWISSY RAIMA LISNI “€ NT IVaRLVI Ad @
LinaNo> BAIA DUSVId AVINDNYID AR © "ANT NIVW G) "NALHOULAIAO LyNtaim an SDaiol a
Ad GALS TN OF TINGaHIS SWAISAS BBLVM NOILVOR! G3DAITY YOY MYd-E-L0-V LH JON 00 ‘HOLL GNVH TUNN 3SIM¥DOTD SII GNNOY YOLD3NNOD ISIML wey epIs HIV Ly Sve VIS AgG-WE (aA1vA ONIDNGaY aUNSSad ISd OF V
“TIGVD 24M OMI JO 4001,7% © 4O SWAISAS NOLLVORY! ITSW1Od YO4 SIG-E-L0-W1# TAGOW ALSRIHD 38 "BAM 3SOdx3 OL SONI WO¥S ,Z/L ATALYWIXOYdAY SABA ARS GOIAOL “BIA TOWINOD SAIVA. @) ONY SAUTE 'SATWA 3QNTONI VHS) “LOX
S113 d33MS DAd OF TINGIHDS 3ava5 HSIN © "ANI NIVW BAO AY ,€ TIVISNI "SNM NIVW 83A0 adVL ONINIWM aTaVID3130 ,€ ® FSNOIDNUISNI igi) 3NOZ dl4d 3ATVA TOBLNOD 31038 ©)
‘NIT TWaalv1 ©) . (ut aNOZ dl¥a
“TraaLyW TINDVE NVIID @) zonvo z . MOB .06 DAd OF anes © — Nraaamn) sorvinoay zanssaaa ©
"3OVeD HSINId 30NVO F . HsaW
‘HSIN D }YOLD3NNOD aad S3alM JO # WNWIXY BIM RWWNOS [wwEL],Z/L3DAVvd 61 ) _(VLOLZ) aalevay ATW oy TINGIHDS
SON “WIS NOILVTIVISNI XOS NI NMOHS
ras “{KO# AATVA NI 1IOS ON} S¥ XO8 TIVISNI 'SNOMd3DX3 ON -XO8
“AINO NOUW2O1 YITINIMS 3HL LV BL OL AIVA MOTIA 4330 [wUZO 43d JATVA 3NO “OM NMOG 1108 HLM
TWAILVT 4O H1d30 3HL 3SV3YDNI ‘ISN FYV SOV3H YATINIYS dA-dOd .ZLNIHM “E Nivad (wuz) .v/€ YO TAAVAD Vad O X08 3A1VA DUSWId AVINDNVLD3I ©)
‘STVIWBLVW aS8VOD YO DAd OF aINGaHDS ©) 3avaO HSIN ()
NOI 43HLO GNV ‘S>NNHD AL3XDNOD “(,Z NVHL 32OUVT ONIHLANY) SXDO8
WOdd 32ad ‘S3HONIAL SHL WO'd GELVAVOXa H1YV3 SHI 34 TIVHS Tikal VW
TIEDDVa "NOUDWdWOD %S6 LV 38 TIVHS SVa8V YHLO TV “SV38V 3dVDSANV1 9 g
NI ALISN3O TVNIDRIO OL LDVéWOD GNV TIld GALVAVDXS GROVATVS 3SN3YZ
‘LINGNOD NIHLIM S3a1M\ 3dV1 LON OG ’S2DV4UNS G3AVd Y3GNN
LINGNOD ALvavd’S V NIHLIM S3aIM 3OVIIOA MOT TIVISNI 'SIDVsINS GIAVE
ANN SAAIIS NI GEDV Id 38 TIVHS S3NN TVaalV1 GNY SANIT ATadNS NIVW TY“
SION Neo
awalvi INO KINO S33 SRM ONY
7innw qwaalv ONY NIWW @) "NIV “TWaalV1
~ ~
Or os
a
z eas
at —cB
| Leas
—]_
_——=
3NON ‘31V9s 3NON '31V9S BNON STDs ANON :31¥98

JATWA TOaINOD dLOWsa v

INNOW TIVM-4OSNGS NIV SS31SaIMA

€

YaTIOYINOD CSINNOW YOSINI

TIVLId WVAOVIC LNOAVT LNaWdINOA NOILVONAI

aaldvay 31vW Or 31NGaHDS @)
‘GATVA 83d JNO) FATA,

TIVa NOINN DAd 08 31NGIHDS GD

“aN NIV DAd @

“8SNYOD H3V3 L-DE a
“G3INOW

SV HLON31 -3lddIN DAd 08 JINGIHOS &)
“(pa)

MOBTA .06 DAd 08 TINGIHDS ED
“3dAL Od GNIO31

}OL 43398 “Jal DAd O8 YO Ov FINGIHDS a

FIM FAVNDS [wuz

OS ON) JATVA MOTAS 4330 [4190 1]
17 DO NIVEA W/E YO AVIS vad Q

NOINN GaGV34H DAd 08 31NG3HDS

“(83WNN NOWLWIS
ANY AINOAINOD) Ovi ‘at aATvVA ©

“(LOL €) NddIN DAs 08 TINGBHDS ®

“10>
a1aWvia [wuz] ,.L V NIBaIM 3n SS3Dx3
AO [ML] ,€ GNV s3DI1dS TIV Lv SxDVd
TWAS JGIAOAd “ZIM TOXLNOD aATWA
“aww [uwos L] ,9 'NIW [utugz] ,e @)
“sD4dS NOILVORAI OL 83434 ©)
“ANI TVBBLYI Ad
‘3089 HSIN ©)

“I¥130 NOLWTVISNI
XO§ NI NMOHS SV XO8 TIVISNI
"SNOILdIDX3 ON “KOS 3d FATVA 3NO
“AIOSINWW NIHLIM 3ATVA LS308¥1 SV
BWVS 38 TIVHS 3ZIS 3ATVA ALVO S3ATVA
4O CIOdINWW aad 3ATVA IVa 3NO
4 XOB GNNOA ,O1 ALvavdaS V NIHLIM
3ATVA TIV@ TIVISNI S3ATVA 43981 GNV
49 L HO 'SBAIA 4 YOd OM NMOA 1108
HLIM XO8 JATVA DUSVId AVINONVID38
yOLX ,PL SaaS O¥d SAN vasn ©
‘ASNV1d NO NMOHS 283HM YOLVINDSY
B¥NSSTad) GIATG TWNVW NV TO3INOD
MONS HLIM 3ATVA TOYLNOD 3LOWaY ()

se8
3

YSAIZDIa BOSNAS NIVA ©
¥3TIOALNOD ©

1M ©
TIVM NO AOSNAS NIV’ INOW @)

(aaNNOW TIM) BALLIWSNV&L YOSNIS Niva sszizaM ©

“AVadS NOLLWOIAU! JO aWaID
SL GNV TIVINIVa G3LNALSEONN OL
03SOdx9 SI 11 393HM ,3DVAS YV3TD 4
NI-GATIVISNI 3@ SAW YOSNAS ‘LSIX3
SNOILINLSEO JI SSI $1 IONVISIO
“Ld OOE SI Y3AIRD3a OL AOSNAS

NIVa WOU LHOIS JO INN WAWIXWW ‘LON

3dV8O HSIN @)

4dOD 1VD!419I13 Yad XO8 TINd VI!

TIVM ao1dalxa @)

341M FOVLTIOA MOT AOS LINGNOD TV>!41DTTIA DAd ABD OF TINGIHDS G)

YOLDVYLNOD TVDIY1DI13 AB GIAIAOYd NOILVION YITIOBINOD OL IDIAYIS LIOA 021)

IDVAINOD NOLVOIAI INN GIAO HLIMS S4O/NO 3T8VAIOT LIOA 02 1©
LINGNOD 1431S GIO! NI IDIAIS LIOA OZ 1)

¥3TIOYINOD NOLVOII@)

"SIN3WISNOY 3S3HL ¥O4 O3¥INOBE 38 TIM SOF

"SONIMVEG ONOOLAUVM/ONIEWNE 335 “LOLDVELNOD ONISWNTd AB) GAMINOI SV ZNLINVS/STIVM HONOZHL SNOUWALINI adld TY TAS °C
"SONILIH NY ‘S3ATVA 'ONIdld 43ddOD TIV AO IONVNGINIVW JO 3SV3 BOS STIVMA ONITTING WOR SONVAVETD 4O ,9 NIVINIW

14 ONY $1340 ‘3UNSOTONA 3HL NIHJIA 3TIVISNI INaWdINDI ¥3H1O ONY 3D¥dS JOOS IIBVIIVAY OL ONIGIODIOV

GAISNTQY 38 OL G33N THM GNY IUVWWYaOVIG SILI “IN3WelN1D3 3H N33M39 G3IINOII SIONVISIG TVDIEAL GNV INAWEINDI NO NOUWWEONI 3IAOYd OL SIINOAYT SIL“

‘SION

CS

mod =I o

"s40014

224aN OL-TBVD BAM OMAL OH S2XO9 NOLONNK HIM tINNOD TOROS 621

YEONINOD YOs YOLDVAINOD WORDITA AB WRIA DV LOA 021

SAAIVA OL TVD 34M OML

"WOO8 INaWEIND’ NI
Od $3KO8 NONLNNY HIM LINGNOD 12819373

@

"SYOOTH YaddN OL JINN NIVW 834dOD SDIANIS O1 BATVA TiVA SS¥aa se

WOO IN3WdIND’ NI S3ATVA TOUNOD SLOWRY 3D1AARS OL 3ATVA Tive SSVAS WL ©

YOO HSIN WOU F BL NW
“AINIVUIS O1 YORI YOSNIS MOS WOU 37ISdN

'J0IS HDV3 NO STédIN ONY SNOINN SS¥A8 [ZJOAAL HLM SBNIVELS A SS¥AG 52" ED

“ONILIIS ANY 4O WV3ULSNAMKOG 4S GNY YOSNAS

MOTE JO W¥BUISEN ,OL JO HIDNET WAWINIW ¥ 3AIAOYd Bald DAd 08 HDS, D

(vio 2) aalavay aivW Dd 08 HOS 4 @D
“YSIBW SBA WORS INN NIVW 834409 $21)

“ATaW3SSY MOTEYDVE GIDNGRE $2" CD
‘VOI 30ve3aWY

XOd VIR dWNd OL 43434 "YIANOA ISVHA TIONIS AOPE S34INOBA “ew Y31S008 E)

BAA wIswW

alike

2D ¥sTIOWINOD|

of

WOOO

(2a1M 8 L#) “S3aM
BATVA 231SYW ONY YOSNIS MOT HOS S3XO NOMONNF HLIM LINGNOD WoIgid313 | ©
OSNAS MOTH DA OD

“VM 3HL WON 3eld GNY SBAIVA 3HL 3d NOLYAYERS .9 4O WNWAINIW ¥ 3ATAO%S
‘qBainO28 SV HLONAT ‘SeWVID ONY SNOISNELXA GAOVIEHL ‘LIIDVAE LYONS Lna1SINN @
SSMddIN SS¥aE YO SONILI LOM HIM
484409 38 TIVHS WOO LNaW4INOA NIHLIM SANT ABLYAN HO ONlald CNY SONILL TY @
-Nownn ssvas , @
sunieana 20 lda Lv NOLIONOD SWYNAG
WV MIONN ISd SF 3OIAO¥d OL 138 “AOLVINDAY JANSSI HLIM BATVA TOAINOD 3LOW3 | @
(BATWA 43d Z) HLONST NI ,Z-3TddIN SSv¥8 ©)
“aawa TIva ssvae ©
(oniaing
MHL ONLNOY LVXI AOI NVId d3W OL 83498) "YOLIVYLNOD ONIGWNId Ad G3TIVISNI
‘SNOMVSOTINO-8N1S OL BNIONALS HONOBAL GANOY S3NN WaLV1 434409 «| ©
“S1BATT a3ddM OL BNI NIVW 834409 ,S7'1®
0014
QBHSIN IAORY .ZF WAMINIW "SOLDYLNOD NOLLVOHA! AB BTIOUNOD NOUV! O



--- page 140 ---
90'e1 V

AaRHNN LHS

silvilad
NOILVOINUI

‘INN LIS

NOILONYLSNOD

4YOd LON

ats
‘AB 039959

‘Aa NAYS
seHMN 193r0

‘swos

NON S1V2S

NON '31V3S.

NON ‘12S

3NON S1VIS

AINOAV1 G34 YALNID 000 1d OAOL 8

NOILVTIVISNI XO SATVA Z

FINLINALS NO-JATVA ONINdNOD ADINO 9

AATVA ONMdNOD WINGO

“aNOZ aNITaIiG
HOV 40 SON3 3HL
LV G3LV301 YOLVDIGNI
NOWwaado aNnidiia ©)

valawnad vv Q

"3003 WOad
[unio 1] ,¥ O1 [wus]
u& STWYBLV YaLaWIdad ©)
“INIOd HOIH
Hova LV ONIGNL ATOd
48/5 INVIG OL G3EWNId
snag wnndva/aly ©
"waaa 80 GNNOW
NO aa¥a1N3> ONIENL
10d YNV18 ‘TVaalV1
aanaa wnnova/aiv ©)

“TWeHLVT anda D)

"NOUD3NNOD
al-OL-aiosinvw @)

'B30V3H LSNVHXa/3NOZ

40 GN3 OL ONILXa
“MIOJINVW Aldans DAd ©)

‘GBLON

3SIMBIHLO SSFINN | 38

OL 3ZIS WAWINIW 3A1VA
WOdd aNII TwaaLvi Ae ©

*(dAL) NOLLD3INNOD-
MOME-OL-aIOsINVW ©)

“GBLON 3S1Ma3H1O SSN
wl 38 OL 3ZIS WAWINIW,
“aloanvw usm Ad ©
LNIOd
MOT LY OJIN HSM
O1 G3aWNid SAIVA HSM [O)

fe]
||

T
ail

“aaainosa

SV 8O ,v AMIAI NMOG JNVIS GNV IdVIO MOTAS ,V-Z INI TVISNIZ

“1d 00€ G33Dx3

AON TIVHS SMI JO NM STONIS V YO NOUDINNOD 3NIT A1dd'S
DAd SIONIS V 44O 3NI1 dI4G G3LD3NNODAALNI TV JO HLONTT WLOL3HL *L

SION

©

EY

vasa
1 y

Va

"SS3DDV ASW] YOS ATSWISSV ISOTONA

ATRL31dWOD O1 GAYINOF SV BSYNLIVINNVW XO8 BATVA Ad NOISNALX3 TIVISNI “9
“S3IS XOS 3ATVA 4O NOILWW4O8A GNV 3$dVTIOD

ANaAaad OL S3XO4 SATVA GNNOAY TOS ONUDVdWOD ATIAVZH GIOAY °S
“D1a ‘88ND ‘3DN3J NW

‘NMI JO 3005 OL AVINDIGNadYd GNV YFHLO HIV] OL THTWaVd S3XO8 13S “7
"NMW1 OL
AN3DVIGV ASIXI LON $300 8IAOD GNNOAD Jl AINO NMV1 NI TIVISNI "Z181SSOd

AYSHM V3aV @NYHS/YIAOD UNNOYO NI ATEW3SSV XO SATIVA GNV ADY 13S “E
“vad JUN. NI JGVaD HSINIJ HLIM HSM NV Vaav aNgHs/8IAOD

NNOAD NI 4IAOD HOINW YO FAVA HSINIS SAOAY | SXOI LIST

“"IAWA
SONIDIAYAS FLVLITIDVS OL 3ATVA TOSLNOD 3LOWAE YIAO XOS 3ATVA BILNID “1
FSNOLLONAISNI
xO ox aNnoxd
u 4OIS3YYV ONINIHON nev
4d XO@TINd| gad GM OLN! OLNI3dAL ATVA
8s X09 a0I1dS] ONvas 1V3H “SAIVA aLv5 GNY
30 ysisno> sino | © 8O4 KOA IATA NNO’ @
—v 3AIVA TO4LNOD ALOE ¥aaWnN NOUS @
Ady 42173 lv NIT NIV 13a
'SDNAd NIV ‘NMI 40 3903 ©
wu 2aaWONCAH ‘QI OLN! 43WNN NOILV1S
sd HOSNAS MOTS) Guy Gl ¥aTIOANOD AO FIV
AW AIA SUISWW] Yad Jd AL 3ATVA ONVUS L3H (®)
Nad wanaaa aunsszad “XO8 3ATVA AVINONVIDII_ ©
no ANIA VO “an O1NI azaNvas
3d05 aNvaa “aNVea OL Swall | 3381 3AVH OL SAATWA aaa TIV ©

“al A3NIOYINOD (1)
NOILWOISIINGGI SATVA

$3xO9 30 MBIA dOL

|

tel a

XO8 3ATVA 4O WOLLOG
HONOYHL Adld JO IOVSSVd MOTIV OL KOM BAIWA SIAIS LOTS ANVSSHOIN al *E

“sa
ONINVId 4O dOL HLIM HSMd 39 OL AdYSS3DIN SV HINT XO8 AATVA WIL “Z

“AZIS GWSQHL 131NI Ldl 3ATVA SW 3ZIS AWVS 34 OL SONILLHY GNV SIddIN “L
ION

MalA dOL

“ty

‘MalA 30S
“T1206 G3QWIYHL DAd 08 TINGIHDS
4oo4.

Adld ANIINIVW DAd

"ALIS QVAUHL L3INI Ld! AATVA,
SV 3ZIS AWVS 39 Ol SONILLIS GNV STiéd
LON

'BAIVA ONMNOD ADIND @)
“"aaVaO HSIN G)

“FiddIN GaqvadHL
DAd 08 TINGIHDS ONOT [wwigz) ,e ©
'SNIT NIVW DAd ©)
(Ad aNnoay
3NO) SéV4S 1331S SSFINIVIS Z/M
“"FiddIN GJGVISHL DAd 08 TINGIHIS ©) ONO7 [4109] ,0€ NO’! TIONY [wus
aviol z= xowe @ * HOE * wwog] 91 /€ x yr/L LX ab/L L@.
“HSaW ‘aN NMOG L108
BUM BaVNOS [wwe L],z/LaoNVD 61 @ HIM XOB 3ATVA DUSvId ANNOY ,01 O

d J

“(XO@ JATVA NI
MOS ON) 3ATVA MOTAS dI3G [4410 L]
u7 “3DO¥Y NIVIC ,h/E YO TIAVID vad ED)
"TH 06 Gaav3YHL DAd 08 TINGIHDS €)
“MO8Ta 30
BAL DAd Oy JINGIHIS GIAOaddV aN O
“HiddIN GJGVISHL
Ad 08 31NGIHDS ONOT [wosz] ,o1 OD

‘MGIA 31S

11a YO AL OF HOS DAd
Tid 3341S 08 HDS DAd
(aaainO3g S¥ HLONAT)

HlddIN 08 HOS DAd
(a34inO3a Sv HLON3T)

|=

axgon
Nouvar!
‘OL aa

TiddIN 08 HIS Ad

»D04 GaHSNxD.

“vaaV Lala

NIHLIM ld OL XO AND “3ZIS HONI-OL
*43AOD HLIM XO$ 3ATWA.

BATA ONNNOD-WDIND

BIL ONUNVTd JO dOL

fumgz]

3NON ‘12S

43d1ddNd ANYHS GNV 3zaL y

SNON ‘31¥3S

HONVad JaIM AVM

€ dO Jal JNM NIVW LV XO JDNMdS JaIM=Z

NON ‘13S

LINGNOD NI ONISIM 8400930

YOLSAIIV ONINLHOM

‘2oze2U0 WHORE’ HOS 13S NOKSSINNOD SHINN §
veozeso pe TWLUNENSRE NOLVONddY ONIN»
exozeoih ee WLUNENS3H NOLWONIdAY OMNIA &
22 LUNENSIE NOLWONIddY ONIN Z
“TWLUNENS3E NOLONIdeY ONIN 4

Nolivorddy ONIN

NOLAIOSSS 7
swoIss
‘suvo 3nss1

Pe WLUINGNSRS NOUVOFad¥ NNN ‘ansst

LOvv6 VO ‘OSLVN NYS
LSFYLS 2° LS

LAFYLS €'S ZS

SSe=aay # aN 193708

LSAAYVH

NSN

ozs-eeu sty oas-r84 Sir
veg au

6 EROS
coseuely ues svouswy
e014 ty amseumiy

wong oud 09} md

NO-aTaM 3SN “DAd 3TBIXITS Sdl..2/1 @
TIVELOOA AN’HS YO 3381 ©
“3aVe9 HSIN ®

‘nevis 9 ©

‘(ivaidAl) TVaLOO’ 40 3903 @)
“aNYHS YO 3381 OD)

“SNVIS 3381 ©

‘ann avaaivi Ad ®

“daldvav
atwwa 4 (1s) MosTa ‘uss) 331 DAd @

gavao 13A71

‘S31dWwxa LN3WSOVid aaTEaNg 33a.

JaVveo a3d01S

Than

Tinan

“SONILLN
OL ASOH DAd ONIGNOS N3HM,
‘TwNDI AO INIWAD INIATOS S6Z

“(QvL01 2)
aaldvav 31W OF “Hs

WWaLOO’ 40

dO NO GanivisNi 38 Ou) azigana

SuzTaang 7 = XO4.87 YO.9E ©
saaiaena
Z=XOIWZYOWOSL ©
amieana | = sangHs
"3ZIS SANYHS GNV SIIWL Bd
spgigans 4O ALUNYN® aais399Ns
® HILON

angon
NOLVORa
OL agaaa

1®

g 8

vaAvad vad
aSNYOD HOV3 oN
NO ANODE

18v>
FIM OML
"4O1D3NNOD “W¥Os JOOYAILYM,
JOON, HLIM SONIN3dO 13S

wna GaAOdeY
8O 9°A/480 WE.

“Hav> 3M OML
¥YOd LINGNOD

7

X08 3A1VA GNNOY OL
3QV¥O HSIN

¥3NYOD HIVE NO 3NO>DI
‘wvOd
4OUd3LVM HLM SONINSEO
LINGNOD Tv IAs "XO@ 3ATVA HVA
4O INO GNV NI Sd33M$ NOT HLM
FVD 3M Z AO LINGNOD ,S2"| ©)

uaaoo3a ©)|
“saaVD 34MM OML
OL S34IM ¥3G0D3d 12RD 193NNO ©}

“s¥300D30 LV ONIDIT&S
IN3HM 318VD aaIM OML WOdd Gaddldls

39 TIVHS 31M JO,” 40 wnwixww v ©
(VLOL ¥) LD dDNdS JOONYILV IM

TWNOI GIAOAddY AO 9-A/aaa WE ©)

¥300D40 LXAN O1 F8VD 38M OM ©)

‘SNOLNALSNI NOLLVTIWISNI
404 IVIAG 3ATVA TOXLNOD SLOWS
OL 82424 “BAIA 1OALNOD 310W3a ©
“SNOMDNAISNI NOLLVTIVISNI
404 V3 JATWA TOXLNOD
BLOW OL BER XOS IATA ® —_-y3113901 sIIeV> YVIS AIOH OL AdVL
WOI8LDTA ISN “IGODIA 8d NVIS .7Z
S2A1M GIONTIOS AAIVA OL. V MOTIV Ja 4O Y39WNN TEGOW 404
$441M 8IGOIIA 1934409 1INNOD Z _¢310N NOMVOR! O1 4343" YITIOVNOD
WOXS TT8V9 IM OML OMve L# O}

‘SNOLLD3NNOD 3D!1dS FHIM-OML TY YOs (00Z9y Y3EWNN
TaGOW) NOLLWAONNI ONIN Ad AaddlAlS ITBVD ALBdVS “AN aSN “Z
"NOLLVTIVISNI OL YORd AITIOLLNOD
LV G3SS3YGQW AIaWNN FATWA V 3AVH TIVHS S430OD30 TY “|

“HSaW 2aIM 7231S SSSINIVIS

aavnds [wwe 1] ,z/1 oNv 81 ©)
4300330 LX3N OL

BISIML /0313¥DVI Hive 281M-z ©
(VLOL y) LD 3DNdS JOOAIAALVM

TWNOI G3AOAddY YO 9-A/aaa We ©)

“ON OLN! 3D, ONVAS

LV3H ‘dN NMOG 1108 HLIM xO8
JATVA DUSVId SVINDNVID3a ARVO ©
¥BNIOD HOV3 NO 3NO-2189 ©)

“HIONST 8 JO GOY ANNOYS “aTIOUINOD
YaddOD YILaWVIG B/S TVISN| @ WOdd ONILVIS WO'd
‘wvO4 009 aaaaa | (VTA BAOW! ©
4OONAYILYM HLA SONINEEO YOIS3BBV ONINIHONT YISVW Nivea
LINGNOD Tv Tas “KOS 3ATVA HVS ¥30d0230

4O 1NO GNV NI Sd33MS ONOTHLIM Yad NOVIS ZV MOTIY "8ITIOULNOD
IBV FIM Z YOd LINGNOD $21 @ WO FISIML /A3LZNDVE HLVd B8IM-%

"3300930 YIHIONV WOU ,8 NIHLIM TIVISNI LON Od "4O1SRvaW ONINLHON

WOds 8 - ¥ OX GNNOYD HVS TIVISNI YOLDINNOD SOOM 9°A/ 890

WE V HLIM a¥IM GNNO¥O JHL OL FOIAZG 3¥NS 3HL LINNOD OL G3SN 34 OL
NOULDINNOD 1108 LNdS V SONaWWOD3H YaISWW NIVa (WOP'L6) ,€ 38 GINOHS Goa
ANNOAD 3HL GNV YOLSRAYV JDANS 3HL N3IM199 FDNVISIG WNWINIW 3HL “1-VI-ML
¥ALSWW Nivd V 3a LSNW JDIAIG IONS IHL “YIGODIG ANV WOAS,009 NVHL YIHLINS
ON G3GNNOAD 38 LSNW F1SVD NONVIINNWWOD 3HL *S3D4NS ONINIHOI ISNIVOV
1DALOUd OL YIDYO NI GEGNNOYO ATAIdOd 3B LSAW SWAISAS YIOIIA TIM OML

[ON



--- page 141 ---
Loe1 VY

AaRHNN LHS

silvilad
NOILVOINUI

‘INN LIS

NOILONYLSNOD
4YOd LON

ats
ow ‘AB 039959
ms ‘Aa NAYS
ovziozaee seHMN 193r0
‘swos

‘2oze2U0 WHORE’ HOS 13S NOKSSINNOD SHINN §
veozeso pe TWLUNENSRE NOLVONddY ONIN»
exozeoih ee WLUNENS3H NOLWONIdAY OMNIA &
22 LUNENSIE NOLWONIddY ONIN Z

“TWLUNENS3E NOLONIdeY ONIN 4

Nolivorddy ONIN

a ne
swoIss

veozeaso ‘suvo 3nss1
Pe WLUINGNSRS NOUVOFad¥ NNN ‘ansst

LOvv6 VO ‘OSLVN NYS
LSFYLS 2° LS

LAFYLS €'S ZS

SSe=aay # aN 193708

LSAAYVH

NSN

ozs-eeu sty oas-r84 Sir
vey 000

6 eMoIeD
coseuely ues svouswy
e014 ty amseumiy

wong oud 09} md

NON ‘F1V2S

NON ‘31V2S

NON 31VOS

ANIOd HSM14-3NI1d14d 8

NOHDINNOD MO8ld OL GIOSINVW JNIT1dlad Z

HODYNOS FIONIS-NOILDSNNOD DAd Ol ANINdIdd

KINO SViaVv dad]

CIOJINVW 33d adLN3D 0002 1d OdOL

NON 31V2S

(2 40 1) yowa (2)

(4330 ,9) WNS TBAWO Wad ®
“ONIENL dI¥ NV19 YO AzGWIH LSNVHXE WOYd ISOH Ad S ©

“KOB aNIVA DUIsvid anno’ 9 (>)

“WaLdVV JIWW OF HS .Z/L ©

"IATVA TIV9 GIGVIYHL OF HIS .2/L ©
gavas HSIN (1)

*XO@ JATVA 3GISINO 83LWM
‘GHSM1J LD3aId OL 8IdaO NI XO 3ATVA

“ANYSSIDIN
SV HLONAT ‘ONIaNL
A1Od [wg 1] ,8/S INIA G)
“ONIO31 NOLLVOR!
¥ad ONIgNL JO HLd3a ©)

ONIsnL aNndlaia ©)

ON3O31 NOILVONAI 83d
3NIT Tv4aLV1 Ad 4O Hida3d @)

“LINO Add .2/L HIM
(uxsxs) 381 Ad Ov HS ©

(osw-) aalavay
1dW DOT OXOL O)

(a) Mosta DOr Oxo ©
gavao Hsin ©

NOWvAnET NOILDaS

"Td 00 NVHI SSH1 SI NOID3aNNOD

“MOR 06 YO FAL .Z/ 1X M%al

Ad OF HDS ASN "SONIMVAG

INO ATLN3834410 O3ZIS

‘SSHINN | 34 OL 3ZIS WNWINIW
“kldd/$ 3NN TaBLV1 DAd @)

“LBUNO Ld3 2/
HLM (LxSxS) 331 Ad OF HDS @)
(240 URI ©

(osw-u) aaLevay
1d DOT OYOL

BIV2S OL LON
NoIDas

Dad SIHL WO¥d GSDIANAS INIT 414d JO HLONST TVLOL SHI N3HM AINO 351

SION

“AdVSSAD3N

S¥ HIONSI ‘ONIN
MOd [449 1] 8/5 INVIA ©)

HL DOT OXOL ©)
ONIaNL aNiataa ©)

“SWALSAS
aLVM G3IDADIA AOd
a1dsNd 3SN “ADV19 AOTOD

“wna AO 80Z NOSEVD @)

30v89 HSINIY ©

A104 [uwig

“Ld 00€ C3393 LON TIVHS NN ANN did SIONIS ¥ JO HLONST 1VLOL 3HL

"BATVA TOLNOD
LOWY WOAd 3NIT TALI DAd ©

“1gUINO Add

[wwe (1.2/1 HLM (LxSxS) 381 Ad @)
(osw-11) aaL¢vav

dw DOT Ox0L @

“ASWSSIDIN

SW HLONST ONISNL

"ION

“ONrani aNndlaa ©)

(1) 331 DOTA OXOL

N3931 NOILYONI ad
NIT Wa3LV1 DAd JO Hid3a ©)
“QN3O31 NOLLVORNI
43d ONIGNL JO H1d3d ©

"3089 HSINIY ©)

G33DX3 LON TIVHS JNMdIdd JO NM’ STONIS V 8O NOWD3NNOD 3NI A1dd'S
‘DAd ZIONIS V d4O 3NIT dl¥d G31D3NNODAAINI TIV JO HLONAT WWLOL3HL “L
'RLON

“INIOd
HOIH LV GIOJINVW Alddns
‘OL aaawnid (7€-00S-aA) IVS OL 1ON

AATWA 431138 WANDVA/ IV Avid
000210 OXOL

(2)

(U1) 3 OTL O8OL

©

“GALON 3SIMa3HLO
SS3INN | 34 OL 2ZIS
WNWINIW "IATA WO8S
B30V3H/INM ATdd NS DAE

"3003 WOU
{wwgo tL] .7 O1 [umiog]
a& STV8aLV] YaLSWIdad

“aaLaWIdad WaV

“vaav1 aNIIdlaa.

“NOLD3NNOD
MOSTH-OL-GIOSINVW
"ANOZ ANIIdI4a

HOva JO SONA 3HL

LV G31VD01 YOLVIIGNI
NOWvaadO aNIidlaa

@ ©e8

@

“GALON 3SIMa3HLO SS31NN
wl 38 OL 3ZIS WAWINIW
‘CIOSINYW HSN14 Ad ©)

ANIOd
‘MO1 LY GIOSINYW HSM14
OLaaewmid 3A1vA Hsnts ©)

33DX4 LON TIVHS 3NINdl4d 4O NN¥ STONIS ¥ XO NOLD3NNOD ANN Alddn'S
‘Dad STONIS V d4O ANI dl4d GaLD3NNODABINI TI 4O HLONST WLOL3HL “L
"LON

“INIOd

HOIH LV COsINVW ATadNS
(OL aaewnid (r€-00S
AATVA gana WANDVA/aIV
000210 OxOL

“GIOSINVW AlddNS DAd

oe)

(A) 881 DOTHAL OFOL

“GALON

ASIMASHLO SSTINN 39
OL3ZIS WAWINIW 3ATVA.
WOds 3NIT TVa3LV1 DAd

©

3003 WOU
[uwigo Ly OL [wwos]
uz STVSLVT S31aWIead

‘yalawiaad VaaV

“TWaaLV1 SNM

"NOLLDaNNOD
MOS1-OL-GIOSINVW
'JNOZ 3NNaIda

HOW JO SONA 3HL

AV G3LV301 YOLVDIGNI
Nolvaado anniania ©)

© ee8

‘G3LON aSIM¥HLO SSZINN
at 3@ OL3ZIS WNWINIW
“aoanew sms Ad ©
INIOd
MO1 LV GIOSINVW HSM
OLaaawmd aAlvA Hsms ©

"goad woud
[wig 1] 7 OL [amos]
of SIVAALVT BRLAWd GD

“aalawidad GNVIS| €)
“3NOZ aNIdI4a
HDV3 4O SON HL
LY G3L¥901 YOLYIGNI
NOILVa3dO 3NITdIIG Q
“LNIOd MOT
iv ONISNL O1 G3aWNid
3ATVA HSM14 TWANWW (o)

“aalv1 aNnaiva @)

“LNIOd HOIH
iv ONIGNL OL G3aWwMid
BATVA SaITRE WNNDVA/ZIV

“IIV13d NOILDaNNOD
DAd OL ANMMdI4d O1 43438
“ANVISI

HOva dO ON3 HSM4

NV AlddfS LY ONISNL
A1Od (49 1] 8/5 NVI

ox
ao
ot

UAW) 3a OTL O8OL
aw

Ta DOT OYOL

(sxs) 1a DAd

“USXS*S) 331 DAC

“ALON SSIM¥SHLO $S31NN
ul 38 OL 3ZIS WNWINWW
“QIOSINVW HSM14 Ad

“GRLON
3SIMUIHLO SSTINN 3d
OL 3ZIS WOWINIW ATVA

WOds 3NIT VaalV1 Ad ©

NI3SOH DAd 4O WNWINIW ,Z LY MOTIY
"LON
QN3031
NOWWoRal
OL 43338
| Dralswosi
NON HVS 3NON ‘SVS 3NON'31¥S, ENeNEIKes
LINOAV1 JAAND GIO 000710 OAOL INOAVT AVINONVIAL OOOTId OAOL LINOAV1 GNVISI 0002 14d OYOL LNOAV1 G34 GN4 0002 1d OAOL
“ORUINOW “aRanOw
SV YO. AYIAT NMOG SNVLS ONY 30VYD MOTIS .7-Z ANMAII TIVISNIZ SV YO.,¥ AYIAI NMOG 3NVIS ONV JOVYO MOTE ,P-Z SNM TIVISNI Z “GRIND SV 4O ,” AWIAI NMOG BIVIS ONY 3dVYO MOTAS ,b-Z ANNdIG TIVISNI ‘azino
“14 008, “14 008 “Ld OO€ G33DXa LON TIVHS NN 3NMT dl8G STONIS V JO HIONST 1VLOL 3HL. SV YO, ANIA3 NMOO FAVIS ONV SVS MOTE .7-T SNITdIIG TIVISNI“Z

“INIOd MOT LY GIOJINVW
Hsnid O1 Gaawnié

ATVA HSM14 SILWWOLNY
"$ANOZ 3NIddd

HOW3 JO SON] 3HL

LV G31V301 SOLVIIGNI
NOWVaadO dla

“aLaWId3d V3
"3003 WO’

[uwoot] .7 OL [wwog]
o@ STVYBLV BILLS

©

e@ 68

/G3LON 3SIMa3HLO SS3INN.
wl 34 OLZIS WOWINIW
“CIOSINVW HSM14 Ad

8

Z

“waaa 4 GNNOW
NO O3¥31N3D ONIENL
AlOd 48/5 YNV1 ‘TWABLVT
saa WNNDVA/ av
“INIOd

HOIH HOVS LY ONIEAL
48/S ANVTA OL Gawd
ATA dad WNNDWA/ aly
“Tvaav1 aNnidia

“(dAL) NOD NNOD
MO81F-OL-TIOSINVW

©

ZZ A\\

FG3LON 3SIMa3H1O SS3INN
at 3@ OL 3ZIS WOWINIW
“GIOSINVW HSM14 DAd
“ORLON

BSIMUIHLO SSINN | 38
OL3ZIS WNWINIW 3ATVA.

e ©0990

WOXd 3NIT TW¥aLV1 DAd (1)

AON TIVHS NMA JO NM’ STONIS V YO NOILDINNOD 3NIT Aldd'S
DAd SIONIS V 44O 3NI1 di¥0 G3LD3NNODAAINI TIV JO HIONST WWLOL 3HL*L

inf

“Ld OE G339x3

SION

id
2



--- page 142 ---
so'e1 V

AaRHNN LHS

silvilad
NOILVOINUI

‘INN LIS

NOILONYLSNOD
4YOd LON

ats
ow ‘AB 039959
ms ‘Aa NAYS
ovziozaee seHMN 193r0
‘swos

‘2oze2U0 WHORE’ HOS 13S NOKSSINNOD SHINN §
veozeso pe TWLUNENSRE NOLVONddY ONIN»
exozeoih ee WLUNENS3H NOLWONIdAY OMNIA &
22 LUNENSIE NOLWONIddY ONIN Z

“TWLUNENS3E NOLONIdeY ONIN 4

Nolivorddy ONIN

a ne
swoIss

veozeaso ‘suvo 3nss1
Pe WLUINGNSRS NOUVOFad¥ NNN ‘ansst

LOvv6 VO ‘OSLVN NYS
LSFYLS 2° LS

LAFYLS €'S ZS

SSe=aay # aN 193708

LSAAYVH

Wy

ey'a2eid'mwn
og0z'vee'E0S
60226 HO pul
aNUAAY UBL MN SEL

JW 1d

NSN

ozs-eeu sty oas-r84 Sir
vey 000

Lite emowen
coseuely ues svouswy
e014 ty amseumiy
wong oud 09} md

NWI

3NON ‘31WOS

NON ‘31V2S

3NON S1V2S
YOLVDIGNI NOILvaadO dlad dN-dOd 02S

“SNOILVIISIDadS Yad WOS SAILVN ©
“(a3YINOIW SADE

NOWWOD Z) S18OddNs HKG @)

(aaaq ,v) TAVYD Vad ©

(a34inoaa
SV HLONAT) aTddIN DAd 08 HOS 42/1 @

(1x1) ONMNOD DA¢ OF HDS 2/1 ©)

“(¥€-00S-GA) 3ATWA 431138
wnnova/alv 000710 OXOL (&)

"SuBLDVaVHD
HOIH 4 LNIGINO av, GNVYd LVaH
“XO8 3ATWA DUISvid GNNO’ .9 ©

"30VUO HSIN @)
"davao HSIN aAO8v 1 ©

“SLNIOd

HOIH Lv 4LWDO1 “INOZ 43d WdD Z ABTA OS IATVA 43N138/IV INO ISN.

NOILVA313/NONDIS

"LON

(oss-1-W) Yaldvav
dda 2/1 XBL OTL OL ©)
‘We-00S-GA) ATA SANE
“SNOILWDIdIDadS Y4d OS 3ALVN ©) wanava/aly 000z10 801 ©)
“laaainozy SxO1Na “suaLDvaVHD
NOWWOD Z) SL¥OdaNS YI @)_ HOI wLNI GM NO WV. GNVEE LVIH
(330 ,p) 1aAvI vad D “xOa 3AIWA Dlisvie anno, ©

‘WaalyT "30Vva9 HSINIF ©
sanaa-aly /ONIGNL 000Z1d OAL () ‘aaveo usin anda 4 ©

“SINIOd
HOIH L¥ 3LVDO1 "3NOZ 43d WdO Z ABIAI AOS TATVA 331734/RIV INO 3SN
LON

NOILVAs13/NOWD3S

SINIOF G30V3¥HI TY IdVL NOTA LON
"SNOLWO1sID3dS Ydd BNI DAd dO H1d]d
"431004 3NOZ dl4G DAd

“A1aWASSW LNIOL ONIMS adld ONIMS YO DAd

"AAIVA 3NOZ dO WV4YISNMOG INIOd LS3HLNd LV GHTTVISNI (GNIdid-0ZS
T3GOW O8OL) ATEW3SSV ZOLVIIGNI NOILWaadO Idd d-dOd OLS

“"JaVeO HSINIS

©
®
©
©
®



--- page 143 ---
00°71

(13437 GNNOYd)

SONIMIONIY
AdVOSONV (¥) (€)
2m ZV 1d YSNYOO ISSMHLNOS L3SuYLS “dS NO SAV LS} SGHVMOL HLNOS SNIMOOT

NOILONYLSNOD
404 LON

‘AB OBNO3HO

LOrv6 VO ‘OSLWN NYS
LSFYLS 2° LS

LaauLS €'S 2S
LSAAYNVH

‘Nara

o0gs-Fez sty



--- page 144 ---
L0v1

ASRNON 13H

(13A37 aNnows)
SONINAGN3Y
AdVOSQNVI

‘SNM L3H

NOILONYLSNOD
404 LON

‘2oze2U0 WHORE’ HOS 13S NOKSSINNOD SHINN §

veozeaso ‘suvo 3nss1
Pe WLUINGNSRS NOUVOFad¥ NNN ‘ansst

LOrv6 VO ‘OSLWN NYS
LSFYLS 2° LS

LAAYLS aS ZS

‘SeeROY ¥ WYN 105FO¥E

LSAAYVH

_v.

‘Nara

ey azeid-mwm

V1d

sizs-eeL sty o0gs-Fez sty
veg 0M

Lite euowen

sous
aunponuary
nes

AATW LV VZW1d YSNHOO LSVAHLNOS (¥)

eins hd |
hE T

Ay
|

©)
AAV LS| NO LSAM ONIMOOT

LAAYLS aS ©)


--- page 145 ---


--- page 146 ---


--- page 147 ---
PROJECT DATA TABLE
NAME: 31 – 57 S. B Street
PA: 2022-089
ADDRESS: 31 – 57 South B Street
LAND AREA: 13,887 (0.32 ac)
ZONING: CBD, Downtown Retail 
Core
APN: 034-154-030
FLOOR AREA:
PROPOSED:
MAXIMUM ALLOWED:
  Commercial 
(Retail/Restaurant/Lobby)
6,048 sf
  Office 
36,337 sf
Total:
41,190 sf
41,661 sf
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR):
2.97
3.0
BLDG. HEIGHT:
54 feet
55 feet
STORIES: 
4
Subject to building height (above)
SETBACKS:
PROPOSED:
MINIMUM REQUIRED:
  Front (S. B Street):
0
(Building entrance: ft)
0 (also, refer to Building Line and 
Setback section below.)
  Left Side (adjacent building):
0
0 (also, refer to Building Line and 
Setback section below.)
  Right Side (1st Avenue):
6’-6”
(building entrance)
0 (also, refer to Building Line and 
Setback section below.)
  Rear (Transit Center Way):
0
0 (also, refer to Building Line and 
Setback section below.)
BICYCLE PARKING:
PROPOSED:
MINIMUM REQUIRED:
  Short-term (visitor) racks:
3 racks
(6 bikes)
Retail/Restaurant (1 per 2,000 sf): 2.72
Office (1 per 20,000 sf): 1.81
Subtotal: 5
  Long-term facility:
18
Retail/Restaurant (1 per 12,000 sf): 0.45
Office (1 per 10,000 sf): 3.64
Subtotal: 5
TOTAL BICYCLE PARKING:
24
12
VEHICULAR PARKING:
PROPOSED:
MINIMUM REQUIRED:
(based on gross floor area)
TOTAL VEHICULAR PARKING:
No parking provided on site.1
Per zoning code,
Retail (1.9 per 1,000 gfa): 10.32
General Office (2.6 per 1,000 gfa): 
94.55
1 Assembly Bill (AB) 2097, effective January 1, 2023, prohibits the City from imposing parking requirements 
including collecting in-lieu fees for projects within one-half mile of a major public transit stop.

--- page 148 ---
LOADING:
None
Retail: None (for<5,000sf )
Office: none (for <50,000 sf)
FLOOD ZONE:
-
Not within flood zone.
STREET WALL:
Compliant
45 degree from midpoint of public 
right-of-way
OPEN SPACE: 
27.38.090
1,656 sq. ft.
(1,169 sq. ft. open space in sun)
1% of non-residential floor area; no 
requirement for open space if resulting 
open space is less than 200 sf. 
Minimum width of 25 ft along sidewalk. 
50% of open space area shall be 
unshaded between noon and 2 pm at 
spring and fall equinox, except if 
shaded by existing building. Open space 
shall include public use facilities.
BUILDING LINE AND SETBACK:
Approximately 28 feet set back 
at office entrance (24.6%)
S. B Street and First Avenue sides Up to 
25% of building line may be set back 
from property line to provide for open 
space.
BUFFERS:
Not applicable
Buffers are required for CBD zoned 
properties when it abuts any residential 
district. 
REQUIRED RETAIL FRONTAGE 
(RRF):
Compliant
South B Street: Yes, subject to RRF
First Avenue: No, not subject to RRF 
(see 2009 Downtown Area Plan)
View of Interiors
Compliant
MINIMUM REQUIRED:
Minimum 75% devoted to entrances & 
windows
Ground Floor Entries to Other 
Uses
South B Street: Approximately 
28 feet (24.6%)
MAXIMUM ALLOWED:
Up to 25% for entrances to uses other 
than permitted uses in Required Retail
  Second Floor Offices
Compliant
Offices permitted on second floor only 
if ground floor is occupied by one of the 
permitted uses in Required Retail
NOTES: 

Project data is subject to change upon submittal of more detailed plans.  

Archeological – Site is located in high sensitivity area.

Historical – Existing buildings are over 50 years old.  

Noise – Site is located within area of high noise due to proximity to Caltrain station.

Tree – Project proposes to preserve existing (3) street trees and plant (4) new street trees.

Grading – grade differential, property is slightly lower on east side (shared driveway side).

Easements – Existing shared driveway off First Avenue is proposed to remain.

--- page 149 ---


--- page 150 ---


--- page 151 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 881C5212-F489-4992-88E7-0F40F1F4D887
Most Commissioners expressed concerns with the Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plans and want to hold safety as
the highest priority with wider sidewalks, as well as consistency between blocks to maintain relationship to adjacent
buildings, and a focus on the pedestrian mall along B street.

REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS

Planning Manager, Manira Sandhir provided updates on items for future Planning Commission meetings. There were no
reports from the Chair, Commissioners, or City Attorney.

ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 10:47pm.

APPROVED BY: SUBMITTED BY:

aw if

Margaret Williams, Chair Mary Way, Administrative Assistant

Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes — 5/10/22 3


--- page 152 ---
Certificate Of Completion

Envelope Id: 881C5212F489499288E70F40F1F4D887
Subject: Please DocuSign Planning Commission meeting minutes for 5.10.2022

Source Envelope:

Document Pages: 3

Certificate Pages: 5

AutoNav: Enabled

Envelopeld Stamping: Enabled

Signatures: 2
Initials: 0

Time Zone: (UTC-08:00) Pacific Time (US & Canada)

Record Tracking

Status: Original
6/17/2022 10:51:38 AM

Signer Events

Mary Way
mway@cityofsanmateo.org
Administrative Assistant
City of San Mateo

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Not Offered via DocuSign

Margaret Williams
mwilliams@cityofsanmateo.org

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Accepted: 6/19/2022 4:50:20 PM
ID: 8626a3ec-5a2c-44c2-b1f1-632a0c765668

In Person Signer Events
Editor Delivery Events
Agent Delivery Events
Intermediary Delivery Events
Certified Delivery Events
Carbon Copy Events
Witness Events

Notary Events

Holder: Mary Way
mway @cityofsanmateo.org

Signature
Mage Win

Signature Adoption: Drawn on Device
Signed by link sent to mway@cityofsanmateo.org
Using IP Address: 76.14.19.215

Margaret WiLLiams

Signature Adoption: Pre-selected Style
Signed by link sent to
mwilliams@cityofsanmateo.org

Using IP Address: 76.14.10.230

Signature
Status
Status
Status
Status
Status
Signature

Signature

DocuSign

Status: Completed

Envelope Originator:

Mary Way

330 W. 20th Avenue

City Clerk's Office

San Mateo, CA 94403
mway@cityofsanmateo.org
IP Address: 64.207.219.72

Location: DocuSign

Timestamp

Sent: 6/17/2022 10:53:29 AM
Viewed: 6/17/2022 10:54:20 AM
Signed: 6/17/2022 10:54:25 AM

Sent: 6/17/2022 10:54:26 AM
Viewed: 6/19/2022 4:50:20 PM
Signed: 6/19/2022 4:51:09 PM

Timestamp
Timestamp
Timestamp
Timestamp
Timestamp
Timestamp
Timestamp

Timestamp


--- page 153 ---


--- page 154 ---


--- page 155 ---


--- page 156 ---


--- page 157 ---
ARCHITECTURE PLANNING URBAN DESIGN

August 1, 2022

Ms. Julia Klein

Department of Community Development
City of San Mateo

330 West 20th Avenue

San Mateo, CA 94403-1388

RE: 31-57 B Street
Dear Julia:

I reviewed the drawings, evaluated the site context, viewed the Planning Commission study session video, and participat-

ed with staff in a video conference with the applicant’s team. My comments and recommendations are outlined below.

NEIGHBORHOOD CONTEXT

An air photo of the site is shown below. Additional photos of the site and nearby buildings are shown on the following
page. Since several concerns were expressed in the Planning Commission’s Study Session regarding the design
in the context of the surrounding neighborhood, additional photos of the site’s context have been provided
to provide a fuller sense of the project’s context.

700 LARKSPUR LANDING CIRCLE . SUITE 199 . LARKSPUR . CA . 94939 TEL: 415.331.3795
CDGPLAN@PACBELL.NET


--- page 158 ---
31-57 B Street
Design Review Comments
August 1, 2022 Page 2

SS

Buildings immediately across B Street and 1° Avenue Corner Buildings immediately across B Street

CANNON DESIGN GROUP 700 LARKSPUR LANDING CIRCLE . SUITE 199 . LARKSPUR . CA . 94939


--- page 159 ---
31-57 B Street
Design Review Comments
August 1, 2022 Page 3

NEARBY B STREET BUILDINGS

CONCOAL SO WITNESS! or
- j td

—

CANNON DESIGN GROUP 700 LARKSPUR LANDING CIRCLE . SUITE 199 . LARKSPUR . CA . 94939


--- page 160 ---
31-57 B Street
Design Review Comments
August 1, 2022 Page 4

NEARBY B STREET BUILDINGS CHARACTERISTICS

There is a great diversity of architectural styles and details on
B Street buildings and within the adjacent Historic District.
Some of the common ones are listed below:

¢ Diversity of uses, styles and details.

¢ Mix of human scale awnings and canopies .

¢ Variety of wall materials.

° Large display windows on ground floor with more solid walls and
smaller windows above - some second floor windows with awnings.

° Large ground floor display windows.

¢ Transom windows.

¢ Frequent recessed vestibules at storefront entries.

¢ Frequent wood storefront framing,

¢ Aprons below storefronts with wide diversity of materials ,patterns and

colors.

° Upper floor recessed windows with molding surrounds.
¢ Arched windows.

¢ Projecting decorative cornices and moulding courses.

° Tile roof projections

¢ Decorative details (e.g, terracotta, wood).

¢ Varied parapet heights.

° Subdued signage.

CANNON DESIGN GROUP 700 LARKSPUR LANDING CIRCLE . SUITE 199 . LARKSPUR . CA . 94939


--- page 161 ---
PROPOSED PROJECT

31-57 B Street
Design Review Comments
August 1, 2022 Page 5

The proposed project consists of three stories of office development over a ground floor devoted to commercial uses.

Architecturally the two and three story base is brick to relate to nearby B Street buildings while upper floors are faced

with glass cladding

1" AVENUE ELEVATION

| of gE

EAST RAILROAD CORRIDOR ELEVATION

i Me a

CANNON DESIGN GROUP

NORTH INTERIOR PARCEL LINE ELEVATION

B Street and 1° Avenue corner

B Street and 1 Avenue corner plaza

700 LARKSPUR LANDING CIRCLE . SUITE 199 . LARKSPUR . CA . 94939


--- page 162 ---
31-57 B Street
Design Review Comments
August 1, 2022 Page 6

PLANNING COMMISSION STUDY SESSION
Individual planning commissioners and members of the public made the following comments
Public Comments

Beautiful historic buildings around - it would be good to see all four sides of the building relate to them.

Would like to see more traditional elements carried to the upper levels instead of glass.

Glass walls conflict with the more traditional elements nearby.

Would like to see new building blend in with the transit center and surrounding buildings in the Historic District.
Building needs to be more traditional.

Would prefer residential units.

Strongly support housing on this site.

Landscaping on the upper decks should be lowered to the ground level.

Commission Comments

Several good examples of new projects on the Peninsula are more traditional (e.g., Redwood City).

Planning Commission’s approach in San Mateo has been to embrace more of a modern setting, but does like sev-
eral of the traditional things they are doing in Foster City.

Maybe traditional elements could be used throughout the project.

This is an attractive building but overall it doesn’t fit in well with the neighborhood as it is currently designed.
Traditional building like 2075 Broadway in Redwood City Is Good Example - the overall consistency of the build-

ing is preferred. (see photo below)

Upper levels seem too much of a mish mash / Seems like two buildings - one on top of the other with no relation-
ship between them - too much of a contrast.

Want this to be one building, not two trying to overtake each other.

Building can’t decide what it wants to be / Two building styles to make the building seem smaller but that just isn’t
necessaty.

Too much of a contrast. Base relates to rest of Downtown which is a good concept.

Prefer timeless architecture / not sure this is it / too much going on.

Would like the building to relate a little more to the historical character of the buildings along B Street

Not in love with roof overhang at the top / out of scale with the rest of the detailing.

Doesn’t like B Street/1“ Avenue corner canopy and tall column - makes structure look floaty or cheap.

Corner could just be an open area - no canopy.

Dor’t like the blank mass of the stairwell treatment on the east facade / it will be seen everyday by thousands of
people on the train and on foot / feels so much like “back of the house” / should be more compatible with the
architecture of the building and have windows.

Does like the signage.

CANNON DESIGN GROUP 700 LARKSPUR LANDING CIRCLE . SUITE 199 . LARKSPUR . CA . 94939


--- page 163 ---
31-57 B Street
Design Review Comments
August 1, 2022 Page 7

ISSUES AND CONCERNS
The recurring concerns expressed at the Planning Commission study session was the need for the overall building design
to relate more strongly to the character and scale of the buildings in the adjacent Historic District, and the need for

greater overall design unity between the brick base and the upper office levels of the building.

Planning Commission concern with glass
wall and its relationship to the brick base

High canopy
47 —| seems

superfluous !
and column
H al is weak

Planning Commission concern with glass
wall and its relationship to the brick base

ir Tae BEE eee
q
q
L)

: AONE ALG i iii

Office entry Building base needs more refinement to
is weak better relate to nearby B Street building

1. The Planning Commission was very concerned about the large wall of glass above the brick building base. The
applicant has expressed a desire to use this technique to highlight their use of an ecologically friendly mass timber
structure. The interior structure might possibly be seen at night with the interior well lit, but that lighting itself
tends to work against the energy saving of the timber, And, sky reflections during the day may well limit views into

the interior.

2. The high canopy above the corner plaza does not seem to accomplish much, and is visually weak compared to the

building base.

CANNON DESIGN GROUP 700 LARKSPUR LANDING CIRCLE . SUITE 199 . LARKSPUR . CA . 94939


--- page 164 ---
31-57 B Street
Design Review Comments
August 1, 2022 Page 8

3. The brick base has some interesting details started, but that in itself may not be enough to relate to the scale and
character of other building facades along B Street.

4. The storefronts are all uniform with none of the vitality or detail of the other storefronts along B Street.

Storefronts lack the variety and character of nearby storefronts

5. The main office entry is rather weak.

Entry is weak

6. The 1* Avenue corner ground floor timber
column supporting the brick mass above
looks weak and is not consistent with the

rest of the building base.

Brick mass supported by
timber column is not
consistent with the rest
of the building base

CANNON DESIGN GROUP 700 LARKSPUR LANDING CIRCLE . SUITE 199 . LARKSPUR . CA . 94939


--- page 165 ---
31-57 B Street
Design Review Comments
August 1, 2022 Page 9

7. The four-story stair tower wall on the railroad corridor facade is not well integrated into the remainder of the
building’s design.

Planning Commission concern
with stairwell blank wall

8. The use of wood window frames on the ground floor is proposed to relate to the mass timber interior structure.
That would be compatible with the nearby wood storefronts, but the sections may be larger than shown on the
drawings - see examples below.

OP gta

]
|
|

A portion of this wall my be seen from public streets
9. The north building facade is a tall and the railroad corridor for some time into the future

blank wall. While it might be covered
by a future tall building, it will likely

be seen from B Street and the railroad
corridor for quite some period of time
in the future.

CANNON DESIGN GROUP 700 LARKSPUR LANDING CIRCLE . SUITE 199 . LARKSPUR . CA . 94939


--- page 166 ---
31-57 B Street
Design Review Comments
August 1, 2022 Page 10

RECOMMENDATIONS

The following are two suggested approaches that are intended to address some of the planning commissioners’ con-
cerns. The applicant’s floor plans have not been changed. Both approaches focus of refinement of the building base

by drawing from details found on nearby B Street buildings and illustrations from the Downtown Retail Core and Historic
District Design Guidelines. The approaches vary largely in the treatment of the upper floors currently proposed as a smooth
glass curtain wall. The approaches are outlined and illustrated below followed by photo examples. The colors shown on
the illustrations are for visual emphasis only. The overall color selections will be proposed by the applicant and reviewed

by staff and the planning commission.

APPROACH #1

Planning commissioners expressed a strong desire for a more unified design closely related to the existing building
fabric of B Street and the adjacent Historic District. This approach introduces further refinements to the building’s pro-
posed brick building base and extends the brick to the upper floors. The main features of this approach ate illustrated
below and include the following details:

¢ Brick columns carried to the building top throughout the building on B Street, 1* Avenue and the railroad corridor.

¢ Extension of the brick on the railroad corridor facade to replace the proposed stucco with recessed brick panels of

windows if permitted by the building code.

¢ Thin brick and stucco panels or a trompe l’oeil simulation to carry the basic bay pattern around on the north facade.

Projecting brick column bases - cast stone or terracotta bases may be studied as an alternative.
¢ Repeat of the brick column and details on the 1* Avenue facade in lieu of the currently proposed timber ground

floor column,

Terracotta, cast stone or tile insets on the ground floor columns - special brick patterns are a possibility.

Two vertically-proportioned windows per bay on the second floor B Street facade.

* Brick, terracotta, cast stone or wood projecting cornices at the top of all brick walls including at the main offices entry.

Extension of the brick walls on the base structure upward in lieu of the glass deck railings.

* Wood storefronts as currently proposed.

* Selection of either wood or tile aprons below the windows - as found on many nearby B Street storefronts.
¢ Awnings over the storefronts (material to be determined).

¢ Elimination of the high canopy over the corner plaza.

¢ Emphasis on the corner plaza at a scale consistent with the current B Street smaller human scale.

¢ Encouragement of outdoor dining with fully openable adjacent storefronts facing the plaza.

¢ Emphasize individual business identity pedestrian-oriented signage.
Larger brick,
terracotta, cast stone
or wood cornices

Brick

— ISU oe a

Gee oo sve i

ii an F - L — i Remove
SSCS SPS Pree nopy
por or Or Orr cr Or Or Orr Or OF Or Or Cr Oa FS

Tenant Tenant Tenant Tenant

ici Rage lay

Gp op og oo

Projecting Brick Bases Recommended Approach Emphasize co Wie ET
Terracotta or cast stone Divided second floor windows Encourage out dr RE
decorative inserts Wood storefronts dining
Wood or tile aprons (pick one)
Awnings

Tenant Sianaae (allowed above)
CANNON DESIGN GROUP 700 LARKSPUR LANDING CIRCLE . SUITE 199 . LARKSPUR . CA . 94939


--- page 167 ---
31-57 B Street
Design Review Comments
August 1, 2022 Page 11

:
Bg yy yy a

fg Ag gg gy gg yg

a
Te On On

CANNON DESIGN GROUP 700 LARKSPUR LANDING CIRCLE . SUITE 199 . LARKSPUR . CA . 94939


--- page 168 ---
31-57 B Street
Design Review Comments
August 1, 2022 Page 12

APPROACH #2

Planning commissioners expressed a strong concern regarding the glass upper portion of the proposed design. They
felt that it was not well integrated into the base of the structure and very much out of character with the existing build-
ing fabric of B Street and the adjacent Historic District. Approach #2, as in the approach outlined above, introduces fur-
ther refinements to the building’s proposed brick building base. The upper floors retain an emphasis on the mass timber
framework of the proposed design, but draws elements to the outside face of the glass wall to better reinforce the bay
pattern of the building base. As noted above, the mass timber interior structure may not be very visible through the glass
wall which would mostly appear as a glass box.. The main features of this approach are illustrated below and include the
following details:

BUILDING BASE

* All of the base of the building elements outlined above in Approach #1

¢ For the building cornices on this approach, staff may wish to consider applicant proposals for an alternative design

treatment comparable and similar in scale to the traditional projecting cornices nearby but more closely related to

upper floor design.

UPPER FLOORS
* Timber or solid material of some depth suggesting the interior mass timber structure,

Projecting brick,
Carry terracotta, cast stone
brick wall up Timber or wood cornices

cr CF Ch Cr Ce CF CCW Ce 0

Tenant Tenant Tenant

Laggan! gg gg! grin!

Ristorante

B STREET

Projecting Brick Bases Recommended Approach Emphasize corner
Terracotta or cast stone Divided second floor windows Encourage outdoor
decorative inserts Wood storefronts dining
Wood or tile aprons (pick one)
Awnings

Tenant Signage (allowed above)

TCA

See front
elevation

a

Tenant

a | a! PT AVENUE

CANNON DESIGN GROUP 700 LARKSPUR LANDING CIRCLE . SUITE 199 . LARKSPUR . CA . 94939



--- page 169 ---
31-57 B Street
Design Review Comments
August 1, 2022 Page 13

Recessed brick panels Projecting, cornice

J a

RAILROAD

oie ee oe

NORTH
FACADE

EXAMPLES
Photographic examples from adjacent B Street and the Historic District buildings along with a few from other similar

contemporary style buildings are shown by category on the following pages.

CANNON DESIGN GROUP 700 LARKSPUR LANDING CIRCLE . SUITE 199 . LARKSPUR . CA . 94939


--- page 170 ---
31-57 B Street
Design Review Comments
August 1, 2022 Page 14

CANNON DESIGN GROUP 700 LARKSPUR LANDING CIRCLE . SUITE 199 . LARKSPUR . CA . 94939


--- page 171 ---
31-57 B Street
Design Review Comments
August 1, 2022 Page 15

TRADITIONAL DISPLAY WINDOW APRONS

CANNON DESIGN GROUP 700 LARKSPUR LANDING CIRCLE . SUITE 199 . LARKSPUR . CA . 94939


--- page 172 ---
31-57 B Street

Design Review Comments

August 1, 2022

Page 16

700 LARKSPUR LANDING CIRCLE . SUITE 199 . LARKSPUR . CA . 94939

CANNON DESIGN GROUP


--- page 173 ---
31-57 B Street
Design Review Comments
August 1, 2022 Page 17

CANNON DESIGN GROUP 700 LARKSPUR LANDING CIRCLE . SUITE 199 . LARKSPUR . CA . 94939


--- page 174 ---
31-57 B Street
Design Review Comments
August 1, 2022 Page 18

ies
estyle Accessor

li

LW COFFEE HOWSE. *.~

| |

CANNON DES GN GROUP 700 LARKSPUR LANDING CIRCLE . SUITE 199 . LARKSPUR . CA . 94939


--- page 175 ---
31-57 B Street
Design Review Comments
August 1, 2022 Page 19

OUTDOOR AND OPEN STOREFRONT DINING

CANNON DESIGN GROUP 700 LARKSPUR LANDING CIRCLE . SUITE 199 . LARKSPUR . CA . 94939


--- page 176 ---
31-57 B Street
Design Review Comments
August 1, 2022 Page 20

BLANK NORTH WALL

TLOCORO

405 East Fourth Avenue: Planning Commission approved design for blank north wall | Thin Set Brick / Stucco Infill | Art Work

Trompe L’oeil Exampes

The photo examples shown above emphasize traditional features that are found in the adjacent Downtown Historic
District. There are, however, a multitude of other approaches to creating interesting and vital downtown buildings and
frontages. The applicant may have other ideas for achieving the goal of compatibility with adjacent B Street buildings,
storefronts and details, and an open dialogue should be welcomed.

There are two other features that staff may wish to ask the applicant to study further.
* The proposed storefront recesses from the column faces are small and opening doors, if out-swinging, would

intrude on to the sidewalk. The recesses are similar to some nearby buildings, but those storefronts typically have
recessed vestibules.

* Many Downtown Historic District buildings have first and/or second floor arched windows which were not shown

on the approaches above, but would be totally appropriate to this site.

Julia, please let me know if you have any questions, or if there are specific issues of concern that I did not address.

Sincerely,
CANNON DESIGN GROUP

WA CY Cam

Larry Cannon

CANNON DESIGN GROUP 700 LARKSPUR LANDING CIRCLE . SUITE 199 . LARKSPUR . CA . 94939


--- page 177 ---
Revised Draft

31-57 South B Street
TIA

Prepared for:
City of San Mateo

May 15, 2024

SF23-1301

FEHR *¥ PEERS



--- page 178 ---
31-57 S B Street TIA Executive Summary

This transportation impact assessment (TIA) reviews transportation conditions at and adjacent to 31-57 S B
Street in the City of San Mateo. The proposed project will not result in CEQA impacts on VMT, bicycle,
pedestrian, or transit circulation, or hazards and emergency access. The addition of project traffic would not
result in unacceptable traffic operations. The project presents no adverse circulation issues and meets the
code of design. The following summarizes the findings in the TIA and the recommended changes to the site
plan would ensure consistency with San Mateo standards and best planning practices.

THE PROJECT
0.32 acre parcel

4 - story mixed use building
36 thousand square feet of office space

5.3 > thousand square feet of retail space

*Image is a current representation of the project

ADDITIONAL TRANSPORTATION ANALYSIS

No adverse effects to vehicle, transit, bicycle, or pedestrian circulation are created by the project.

» 40 new AM peak hour and 50 new PM peak hour » 18 long-term bicycle parking spaces on-site
Gia vehicle trips compared to existing land uses S$ » 6 short-term bicycle parking spaces on-site

» Proposed sidewalks with a width of 11.4’ - 18.5’

» 11 pedestrian entries
q » Proposed sidewalks meet ADA standards

F » Project will generate new riders on Caltrain and
—————=— Samtrans

STUDY INTERSECTIONS & CEQA IMPACTS

Baldwin Ave

Transit Center Way

» No adverse traffic conditions

» No significant VMT impact due to proximity to high quality transit
(within a 1/2 mile of Caltrain)

» Minimal impact on neighborhood traffic

» No new hazards or impact to emergency access

aA YIOMS|/F “S
IS g

BAY PEOIIICY 'S

RECOMMENDATIONS

» Add a high visibility crosswalk to the west leg of the in 1st Avenue and Transit Center Way to
provide an adequate pedestrian connection between the project site and the San Mateo
Caltrain station and the Main Street parking garage.

» Provide benches/seating, shade structure with lighting, real-time arrival information, and trash
receptacles at the nearby 1st Ave and B St bus stop. |


--- page 179 ---


--- page 180 ---


--- page 181 ---


--- page 182 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

Executive Summary

This transportation impact assessment (TIA) reviews transportation conditions at and adjacent to the
mixed-use Project at 31-57 South B Street (“the Project”), in the City of San Mateo. The proposed project
will not result in CEQA impacts on VMT, bicycle, pedestrian, or transit circulation, or hazards and
emergency access. The project presents no adverse LOS effects or site circulation issues, and the addition
of proposed Project trips would not result in adverse effects on traffic operations. The project does not
include features that would disrupt nearby roadway facilities nor generate a substantial number of vehicle
trips that would worsen or create new traffic issues. The project meets the City’s design standards and
guidelines, except noted below. The following recommended changes to the site plan would ensure
consistency with San Mateo standards and best planning practices.

Recommendations

Recommendation 1: To be consistent with the recommendations included in the City of San Mateo
Pedestrian Guidelines and the San Mateo TOD Pedestrian Access Plan, the project should provide the
following facilities:

e §=Add a high visibility crosswalk to the west leg of the in 1st Avenue and Transit Center Way to
provide a direct pedestrian connection between the project site and the San Mateo Caltrain
station and the Main Street parking garage. For the west leg of this intersection (crossing 1%
Avenue), evaluate the feasibility of including other pedestrian safety features with City of San
Mateo staff, such as a raised crosswalk or a curb extension and a Rectangular Rapid Flashing
Beacon (RRFB) per Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) recommendations for uncontrolled
crossings.’ Adding this pedestrian crossing would also include a new pedestrian ramp on the
south side of 15 Avenue, which may require the removal of an on-street police vehicle parking
space.

Recommendation 2: To be consistent with the recommendations included in the SamTrans Bus Stop
Improvement Plan, the project should provide the following transit features:

e Benches/Seating
e Shade Structure with Lighting
e Real-time arrival information
e Trash receptacles

1 See page 16 of the FHWA Guide for Improving Pedestrian Safety at Uncontrolled Crossing Locations for
recommended countermeasures for uncontrolled crossings.

P



--- page 183 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

Introduction

This transportation impact assessment (TIA) reviews transportation conditions at and adjacent to the
mixed-use project located at 31-57 South B Street in the City of San Mateo. Conditions were evaluated for
the project site without the proposed project, for near-term conditions with and without the proposed
project, and for future conditions with and without the proposed project. The topics presented herein are
based on the City of San Mateo's Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Guidelines (July 2020) and are
intended to disclose the transportation related CEQA impacts and local transportation effects of the
project. These topics include an assessment of vehicle level of service, vehicle miles traveled (VMT), site
access and circulation, driveway site distance and vehicle queuing, parking, hazards and emergency
vehicle access, and neighborhood traffic.

os


--- page 184 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

Study Area and Scenarios

The project site consists of a 13,887 square foot (0.32 acre) parcel on the corner of 1°t Avenue and South B
Street. The project site is bounded to the north by retail uses along South B Street, to the east by the San
Mateo Caltrain station, to the south by retail uses along 1%t Avenue and South B Street, and to the west by
residential and retail uses along South B Street. The study area, which is shown in Figure 1, is located in
downtown San Mateo between El Camino Real and U.S. 101. The project site is directly adjacent to the
San Mateo Caltrain station.

Based on recent changes to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) guidelines with the
implementation of SB 743, and due to guidance provided by OPR, vehicle miles traveled (VMT) is
recommended as the appropriate measure of transportation impacts under CEQA. Level of service (LOS)
and other similar vehicle delay or capacity metrics can no longer serve as transportation impact metrics
for CEQA analysis. As stated in the City’s TIA Guidelines, the City of San Mateo shifted to using VMT for
CEQA impact evaluation. Additionally, the City’s TIA Guidelines continue to require an LOS evaluation for
land use development projects through its non-CEQA local transportation analysis requirements. Based
on these guidelines, five intersections would qualify as study intersections within the project vicinity:

e Baldwin Ave and South B Street

e 1st Avenue and South B Street

e 15% Avenue and South Claremont Street
e = 2°4 Avenue and South Ellsworth Avenue
e 2°4 Avenue and South Claremont Street

Transportation conditions were evaluated for the weekday peak periods of 7:00-9:00 AM and 4:00-6:00
PM in a manner consistent with the TIA Guidelines. Traffic conditions were evaluated for the
following scenarios:

e Existing Conditions: Existing traffic volumes were based on in-person vehicle counts collected at
the five study intersections on Wednesday, May 24, 2023.

e Opening Year Conditions: Existing traffic volumes plus traffic generated by approved but not yet
completed or occupied developments near the project site.

e Opening Year Plus Project Conditions: Project generated trips added to opening year
traffic volumes.

e Cumulative No Project Conditions: Cumulative no project conditions reflect estimated future
traffic volumes with the project trips removed from the study intersections.

e Cumulative Plus Project Conditions: Cumulative plus project conditions reflect estimated future
traffic volumes for the year 2040, including the project-generated vehicle trips.

* The intersections on South Ellsworth Avenue and South Claremont Street were selected as they are the nearest
intersections that meet the City’s TIA guidelines due to the closure of B Street to vehicle traffic between 15t Avenue
and 24 Avenue, the lack of through access for project trips on Railroad Avenue, and the location of the parking
garages that would be used by the project.

ol


--- page 185 ---
Oo % [4]

< &
2 a &
ia Sz
=u
2:
Sw
ow

SCHOOL

PENINSULA
HOSPITAL

y
a Lp Peoy yynowpeq

9
fo) 1)

@ 6, “Ys
ey ) 4
Ke Le Ze 7 ay - ainia Aven

2 ey Oy - /- E>. NWO
xide"dewesed ISGS/o-Le\Sfoisishleuyyeans @ unos 1-1 ¢ LOS L-ezAs\sHelold ezoz\saloug\shequeso; Nuiedy eqysd5\

Figure 1

Project Location

Caltrain Station - 0.5 Mile Radius

|) 31-57 S B Street Project Location
@} Study Intersections

r—4
ce J


--- page 186 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

Project Description

The project site includes a 13,887 square foot (0.32 acre) parcel on the corner of South B Street and 1*
Avenue. The proposed project consists of five parcels that currently include a donut shop and several
vacant commercial uses. The project site is bounded to the north by retail uses along South B Street, to
the east by the San Mateo Caltrain station, to the south by retail uses along 15t Avenue and South B Street,
and to the west by residential and retail uses along South B Street. The project site has a General Plan
Designation of Downtown Retail Core Support and a zoning designation of CBD. The purpose of the CBD
District “to encourage the development and re-use of existing downtown structures as a center for retail,
cultural, entertainment, and community service uses.”?

The project proposes to demolish all existing project site structures and would redevelop the site with a
new four-story 41,190 square-foot mixed-use building. The building would be approximately 55 feet high
and would include 35,888 square feet of office space and 5,302 square feet of retail soace.4 The building's
ground level would include retail, a lobby, and office space. The second, third, and fourth floors would
consist entirely of office space.

The building's primary pedestrian entrance, which includes a lobby, would be located on South B Street
and would provide access to pedestrians coming from Downtown San Mateo and the Caltrain. In addition
to the main pedestrian entrance on South B Street, the project proposes secondary pedestrian entrances
along 15‘ Avenue and South B Street for the ground floor retail and office uses.

The proposed project will not include on-site automobile parking. Due to passage of AB 2097, the City of

San Mateo cannot enforce minimum parking requirements on the proposed project because the project is
located within 72 mile of a major transit stop.° The project proposes 24 total bicycle parking spaces, which
includes six short term spaces and 18 long term spaces.

The project proposes to provide wider sidewalks, street furnishings, plant street trees, and add pedestrian
scale lighting along project frontages to meet City of San Mateo standards, and to promote connectivity
and pedestrian safety in the project area.

The Project will include a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan that would result in a decrease
in the number of trips generated and parking demand compared to typical Projects of this use and size.

3 City of San Mateo Municipal Code, https://law.cityofsanmateo.org/us/ca/cities/san-mateo/code/27.38

4 According to the Applicant, ground floor retail uses may include uses,

> California Legislative, AB-2097 Residential, commercial, or other development types: parking requirements, 2022,
https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=202120220AB2097

(|
be |


--- page 187 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

Existing Transportation Conditions

The existing transportation conditions surrounding the project site relating to the following topics are
presented below: the roadway network, pedestrian facilities, bicycle facilities, transit service, vehicle
volumes and lane configurations, and parking conditions.

Existing Roadway Network

As shown in Figure 1, the project site is located at the corner of 1st Avenue and South B Street. El Camino
Real (State Route 82) and US 101 are the two primary regional north-south access routes. Drivers will use
these regional roadways to reach State Route 92, which provides east-west regional access to the project
site. Local streets that provide direct access to the project site are described below.

South B Street is a two-way north-south street with one travel lane in each direction. South B Street is
designated as a Class III bike route between 34 Avenue in the north to 9 Avenue in the south. On-street
parking is available along most of the street in the area surrounding the project site. South B Street is
designated as a pedestrian-only zone between 1°t Avenue and 3"? Avenue and the road is closed to
private automobile traffic in that segment. South B Street is approximately 45 feet wide, and each
sidewalk is approximately nine to fifteen feet wide.

1st Avenue is a two-way east-west street with one travel lane in each direction. The street spans from
South Ellsworth Street in the west to the San Mateo Creek in the east. Aside from a parking restriction in
front of the project site, parking is allowed on the remainder of this 1st Avenue segment. 1st Avenue
between South B Street and South Claremont Avenue includes an at-grade railroad crossing, which allows
for pedestrian access and the primary pedestrian access to the San Mateo Caltrain Station platforms for
both northbound and southbound trains. The roadway adjacent to the proposed project site is
approximately 45 feet in width and the sidewalks are each approximately twelve feet wide.

Baldwin Avenue is a two-way east-west street with one travel lane in each direction. The street spans from
El Camino Real in the west, where it continues westward as Baywood Avenue, to South B Street in the
east. On-street parking is available along most of the street. The roadway is a Class Ill bike route from San
Mateo Drive to South B Street. The roadway adjacent to the proposed project site is approximately 65 feet
in width and the sidewalks are approximately ten to twenty feet wide.

South Ellsworth Avenue is a two-way north-south street with one travel lane in each direction. On-street
parking is available on a majority of the street in the area surrounding the project site. The roadway near
the proposed project site is approximately 50 feet wide and the sidewalks are approximately ten to fifteen
feet wide.

ol


--- page 188 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

Existing Pedestrian Facilities

All streets in the vicinity of the project site have sidewalks. The project site is adjacent to the signalized
study intersection of 1%t Avenue and South B Street and the unsignalized study intersection of Baldwin Ave
and South B Street, both of which have standard crosswalks on each leg. The unsignalized intersection of
1st Avenue and Transit Center Way directly to the east of the project site serves as a driveway for the San
Mateo Caltrain station parking lot. This intersection does not have marked crosswalks across 15t Avenue.

With respect to ADA accessibility, the curb ramps at 1°t Avenue and South B Street do not include
truncated domes or directional curb ramps. And therefore, this intersection does not comply with current
ADA standards, unless it is technically infeasible to add directional curb ramps.°®

In the last four years, there have been three pedestrian/vehicle collisions reported at the five study
intersections as a result of vehicles colliding with pedestrians while crossing at the crosswalk’:

e 1st Avenue and South B Street: two collisions
e = 2nd Avenue and South Ellsworth Avenue: one collision

As shown in Inset 1, the City of San Mateo, through its 2022 Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)
Pedestrian Access Plan, has proposed several improvements to the public right-of-way, including adding
high visibility crosswalks on the west leg of 15t Avenue and Transit Center Way, and adding a pedestrian
scramble and curb extensions at the intersection of South B Street and 1% Avenue.

6 As noted in section R203.6.1.1 of the Accessibility Guidelines for Pedestrian Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way

Crosswalks (September 2023), one curb ramp shall be provided for each crosswalk (e.g., a curb ramp that aligns with
the crosswalks as a “directional curb ramp”. Accessible at https://www.access-
board.gov/prowag/scoping.html#r20361 1-crosswalks-at-an-intersection.

’ City of San Mateo Collision Data, 2022,
https://experience.arcgis.com/experience/8a9f7321d1ce46ffoc0e1f04757efb5f/page/Maps/?data_id=dataSource 8-
Traffic Data Public 6061 807%3A72208&views=Pedestrian-Collisions

(|
be |



--- page 189 ---
31-57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

consider reducing westbound travel lanes to
widen sidewalks. Alternatively, consider closing
the eastbound lane on Transit Center Way to
create an enhanced entrance to the station. Add
wayfinding signage improvements to reduce
driver confusion. Opportunity for
placemaking/public art.

Provide curb extensions and
directional ADA curb ramps.

Consider a pedestrian
scramble to reduce
conflicts with turning
vehicles. Provide curb _
extensions.

Reconfigure the intersection —
by narrowing travel lanes on San
Mateo Drive, shifting lanes
towards the east, and converting
to diagonal parking on the west
side of the street.

Remove conflicts from 2nd
Avenue by implementing split
phasing, protected lefts, or an all
pedestrian phase.

Provide curb extensions to
tighten corner radii.

RECOMMENDATIONS

Consider a raised
intersection. Opportunity for
placemaking/public art.

Ensure sidewalk minimum
meets City pedestrian
design guidelines on 1st
Avenue and Transit Center
Way (N-S). :

~ Provide curb extensions or
consider daylighting and
protecting left turns which
: requires the addition of left
Provide a high-visibility turn pockets on 2nd Avenue.
crosswalk across S.
Railroad Ave.

Consider adding an
RRFB to the crosswalk
across Ist Avenue.

Provide high-visibility crosswalks
on the west and north legs. Include
directional ADA curb ramps and
curb extensions for the west leg,

S

Add a painted curb extension to the southeast corner and enhance the
driveway crosswalk to a raised or high-visibility crosswalk. To remove
left turn conflicts with crosswalks, implement split phasing.

In the long term, consider shifting the southern crosswalk to the north
or adding a pedestrian scramble or pedestrian-only phase.

Inset 1: Recommendations for Access Improvements for San Mateo Caltrain Station from 2022 San
Mateo TOD Pedestrian Access Plan

>


--- page 190 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

Existing Bicycle Facilities

Bikeway planning and design in California typically relies on guidelines and design standards established
by California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) in the Highway Design Manual (Chapter 1000:
Bikeway Planning and Design). The Caltrans guidelines cover four primary types of bikeway facilities: Class
|, Class Il, Class Ill, and Class IV. These facility types are described below.

Class | Bikeway (Bike Path) provides a completely separate right-of-way, is designated for the
exclusive use of bicycles and pedestrians and minimizes vehicle and pedestrian cross-flow. In
general, bike paths serve corridors that are not served by existing streets and highways, or where
sufficient right-of-way exists for such facilities to be constructed.

SHARED-USE PATH (CLASS 1)

Completely separated right-of-way for exclusive ume of bacyoles and penearrians

i
Mot to acale | 2 | ee

Shoukier Paved Path Souder

Class II Bikeways (Bike Lanes) are lanes for bicyclists generally adjacent to the outer vehicle travel
lanes. These lanes have special lane markings, pavement legends, and signage. Bicycle lanes are
generally five feet wide. Adjacent vehicle parking and vehicle/pedestrian cross-flow are permitted.
Note that when grade separation or buffers are constructed between the bicycle and vehicle
lanes, these facilities are classified as Class IV Separated Bikeways.

e=
>


--- page 191 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

BICYCLE LANE (CLASS 11)

On-Street striped lane far one-wery Dike tract

Bike Lane Sign
(Optional

Not to stale | Sidewek. | 78" | SB | TravelLana| TravelLane | 65: | Sadak |
Parking Bike Lane Bike Lane

Class Ill Bikeway (Bicycle Routes/Bicycle Boulevards) are designated by signs or pavement markings
for shared use with pedestrians or motor vehicles but have no separated bicycle right-of-way or
lane striping. Bicycle routes serve either to a) provide continuity to other bicycle facilities, or b)
designate preferred routes through high demand corridors. Bicycle routes are implemented on
low-speed (less than 25 mph) and low-volume (less than 3,000 vehicles/day) streets. The San

Mateo Bicycle Master Plan also designates a special subset of Bicycle Routes which include traffic
calming treatments as Bicycle Boulevards.

BICYCLE BOULEVARD (CLASS III)

Shared on-street facility with improvements to prioritize bicycle traffic

Bicycle Boulevard Signs

Not to scale Sidewalk | Parking | Shared | Shared Parking | Sidewalk
Travel Lane Travel Lane

Class IV Bikeway (Cycle Tracks/Protected Bike Lanes) provide a right-of-way designated exclusively for
bicycle travel within a roadway and which are protected from other vehicle traffic with devices,

including, but not limited to, grade separation, flexible posts, inflexible physical barriers, or parked
cars.


--- page 192 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

CYCLE TRACK/SEPARATED BIKEWAY (CLASS IV)

Physiesily seperated bike Jane

Not to scale {Scewak| 7" | Parking | Travel | Travel | 8°?! | Sicewak|
Bice Lars & Lane Lans Bike Lane &
3-6" min. Buffer 2-3" min. Butler

Existing bicycle facilities near the project site include Class III bicycle routes on South Delaware Street and
South Claremont Street and Class II bike lanes on 1st Avenue between South B Street and Claremont
Street.

As shown on Figure 3.7 of the 2020 San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan®, the bicycle facility along South B
Street is considered to have a high “Level of Traffic Stress” (LTS).? LTS measures bicycling comfort based
on roadway characteristics. Low stress bikeways are comfortable for everyone to ride on, including people
LTS categorizes as “interested but concerned” in bicycling. In contrast, high stress bikeways are only
tolerated by a few: primarily those that LTS describes as “strong and fearless” — those comfortable riding
under any conditions (about 7% of the population). Class Il and Class III bicycle facilities on roadways with
multiple lanes of vehicle traffic and speed limits above 25 miles per hour are categorized as high stress
bikeways. As such, South Claremont Street and South San Mateo Drive are expected to be the primary
north-south streets for bicycle access.

The City of San Mateo, through its 2020 Bicycle Master Plan, has proposed a Class II bike lane on 1*
Avenue as shown on Figure 4.3 of the 2020 San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan.’° The bicycle improvements on
1st Avenue are considered high priority as shown on Figure 6.1 of the 2020 San Mateo Bicycle Master
Plan." Existing and proposed bicycle facilities are shown on Figure 2.

Figure 2: Existing and Proposed Bicycle Facilities

8 San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan, City of San Mateo & Toole Design, 2020, p 28.
° The LTS Methodology was developed by Mekuria, Furth, and Nixon in Low Stress Bicycling and Network Connectivity
(2012).

~
Ce 11


--- page 193 ---
x

t_Basemap.aprx

XO

Ww
Be gor FIRE
25 TA STATION
5 Fa 21
a NYA 8
gS 4 MILLS \%s
Eg” PENINSULA
s HOSPITAL
oO
a!
cl
B
ae S ?
of S 7
- Ce
8 co % ”
we) \
9
Zax
s S S
E & “

8 8 \ SUNNYBRAE
g 2 ~ \ ELEMENTARY
3 = \ SK, SCHOOL
s fe) BN 3
sg E ON SA
a £ 1) NO
Ee A % SN \%,
2 [o} N ey 2 ;
2G. “0, \ ye % OS N)
& 3. a, Yoh
o 2 © ‘\ S
i \ .
B.S ‘\ XS
! 31-57 S B Street Project Location Existing Bicycle Facilities Proposed Bicycle Facilities

—— Bike Lane - = - Bike Boulevard

-——— Bike Route - — - Bike Lane

—— Shared Use Path - - - Buffered Bike Lane

—— Bike Boulevard - — - Seperated Bike Lane

Figure 2

Existing and Proposed Bicycle Facilities


--- page 194 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment

May 15, 2024

Existing Transit Service

Table 1 and Figure 3 present the existing transit service providers and routes that provide transit service

near the project site. SamTrans is San Mateo County's primary regional and local bus transit provider, and

their bus routes serve all of the county’s Caltrain and Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) regional rail stations,

which provide access to other Bay Area counties. The schedule information below reflects June 2023

timetables.

Table 1: Existing Transit Service

Weekday Peak | Weekend Peak
Headway
(minutes)

Headway
(minutes)

Closest Stop(s)
to Project Site

Key Destinations Served by
Route

SamTrans
53/53P

SamTrans 59

SamTrans 250

SamTrans 292

SamTrans 397

SamTrans ECR

Caltrain

30

20-30

45-60

15

30

60

30

45-60

15

60

School Drop
Off/Pick Up
Hours Only

School Drop
Off/Pick Up
Hours Only

Weekdays: 5:50
AM — 11:00 PM;
Saturdays: 7:02
AM -— 8:40 PM

Weekdays: 3:55
AM — 3:11AM;
Weekends: 4:00
AM — 2:22 AM

Weekdays and
Saturdays: Early
AM hours (1:04
AM -— 6:46 AM)

Weekdays: 4:00
AM — 1:51 AM;
Weekends: 4:40
AM - 2:19 AM

Weekdays: 5:28

E 3 Avenue
and S Delaware
Street (AM); E
2d Avenue and
S Delaware
Street (PM)

1st Avenue and
B Street (AM); E
4t Avenue and
S Ellsworth (PM)

1st Avenue and
B Street

S Delaware
Street and 2"4
Avenue

El Camino Real
and E 24
Avenue

El Camino Real
and E 2nd
Avenue

AM —- 12:16 AM; San Mateo

Weekends: 8:19
AM — 12:41 AM

Note: Transit service is representative of February 2024 operations.

Source: SamTrans, Caltrain, and Fehr & Peers, 2024

(|
be

Station

Peninsula/Humboldt, Borel
Middle School

Hillsdale/Norfolk, Aragon
High School

San Mateo and Hillsdale
Caltrain Station, College of
San Mateo

Downtown San Francisco,
SFO, all Caltrain stations in
the city of San Mateo,
Hillsdale Mall

Palo Alto Transit Center,
Downtown San Francisco,
San Francisco Airport,
Millbrae Transit Center,
Hillsdale Caltrain Station

Multiple BART stations, all
Caltrain stations in the city of
San Mateo, Palo Alto Transit
Center

San Francisco, San Jose

13


--- page 195 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

Caltrain’s San Mateo Station is directly east of the project site. Caltrain runs through the length of the
Peninsula and provides regional rail service, connecting San Mateo with destinations in San Jose and San
Francisco. Caltrain passengers can transfer to BART at Millbrae Station, which provides rail service to the
East Bay via San Francisco.

People walking between the project site and the San Mateo Caltrain Station would use the sidewalks on
South B Street and Transit Center Way or on 1%t Avenue to access the station. The intersection of Transit
Center Way and 1*t Avenue and the intersection of Transit Center Way and South B Street have curb
ramps. However, the curb ramps on Transit Center Way and 1%t Avenue do not include truncated domes.
The TOD Pedestrian Master Plan includes various features described in the Existing Pedestrian Facilities
section that would improve pedestrian connectivity between the project site and the Caltrain station.

Three regular service SamTrans routes serve the project area and provide access to BART, downtown San
Francisco, and attractions within San Mateo:

e Route 250 - San Mateo Caltrain to College of San Mateo
e Route 292 — San Francisco to Hillsdale Mall
e Route ECR — Daly City BART to Palo Alto Transit Center

The Route ECR bus stops at El Camino Real and E 2"4 Avenue include sheltered benches in both the
northbound and southbound directions. Route 250 has a stop adjacent to the project site at 1st Avenue
and South B Street, which has two unsheltered benches. SamTrans Route 292 has two nearby stops at
South Delaware Street and 3 Avenue and South Delaware Street and 2" Avenue. Neither of these stops
have benches. SamTrans has prepared design guidelines for the minimum bus stop amenities that are
expected at each stop based on service level, which would include a shade structure with lighting,
bench/seating, map & schedule, and real time information for the Route 250 and 292 stops and full
shelters with these amenities and bulb outs for Route ECR."

12 Per slides 11 and 12 of October 2023 update to SamTrans board meeting: https://www.samtrans.com/projects/bus-
stop-improvement-plan

~
& ;



--- page 196 ---
PENINSULA

aN =
xude'dewaseg 3Sq

HOSPITAL

fe)
oT.
<7,

“be

SUNNYBRAE

peoy yinowweg

iS)
UG:
Ib

Ly
. oo _ >.
Slo\sishjeuyyeons @ unos” 7G-1E LOEL-EzAS\sHalold ezoz\spaloug\eieq\eso/ ouledy'Eqysd5\

SCHOOL

EES Caltrain Station
jt Caltrain

Route ECR
Route 397

Route 53

57 S B Street Project Location

7 31

Route 59
=—— Route 250

Route 292

Figure 3

Existing Transit Routes


--- page 197 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

Existing Vehicle Volumes and Lane Configurations

Intersection turning movement counts were collected in May 2023 for both the AM peak period (7:00-9:00
AM) and PM peak period (4:00-6:00 PM). These counts include the number of automobiles, cyclists, and
pedestrians at each of the five study intersections. In addition to these turning movement counts, 24-hour
vehicle counts were collected in May 2023 on both of the streets that front the project site: 1%* Avenue and
South B Street. The existing lane configuration and traffic volumes for each study intersection are shown
on Figure 4.

Existing Intersection Level of Service
Five locations were identified as study intersections within the project vicinity:

e Baldwin Avenue and South B Street (all-way stop-controlled)

e 15 Avenue and South B Street (signalized)

e  15* Avenue and South Claremont Street (all-way stop-controlled)
e = 2"4 Avenue and South Ellsworth Avenue (signalized)

e 24 Avenue and South Claremont Street (all-way stop-controlled)

Two of the five study intersections are signalized as indicated above. The City of San Mateo General Plan,
through the City’s TIA Guidelines, requires the City to maintain a Level of Service no worse than mid LOS D,
average delay of 45.0 seconds, as the acceptable Level of Service for all signalized intersections within the
City. Adverse traffic operations are to be noted if a signalized intersection operating at acceptable LOS is
triggered to operate at unacceptable levels of service (from mid LOS D or better to E or F) or increases in the
average delay for a signalized intersection that is already operating at unacceptable LOS by 4.0 seconds or
more.

For unsignalized intersections, the guidelines require the City to maintain a Level of Service no worse than
LOS E for unsignalized intersections. Adverse traffic operations are to be noted if an unsignalized intersection
operating at acceptable LOS is triggered to operate at unacceptable levels of service (from E or better to F) or
increases the average delay for an unsignalized intersection that is already operating at unacceptable LOS
by 4.0 or more seconds.

To evaluate these policies, the City uses the metric Level of Service ("LOS"), which is a qualitative
description of driver comfort and convenience. Typical factors that affect motorized vehicle LOS include
speed, travel time, traffic interruptions, and freedom to maneuver. Typical LOS criteria for signalized and
unsignalized intersections are defined in Table 2 and Table 3, respectively.


--- page 198 ---
%, We “ & ee
% ~~ sf b Gf % a,
Sy x@ W%, mw Bs %&
° We 4} @ b © “
“Ss % . & &
¥, 7A % S
iL. iS) vad Z
Y 2 0,
%, x 2 2
‘© e © 2x
3s Ry &
Res a ey
%
&.. FIRE
“% 6, STATION.
24
SD
Sg
%
%
} oe Q ro)
“8, cS ~ %, C
> 6 e % Y
% ae? ye oe » %
O oe RY) ) a
we w ok Ka
N\o we os %
ae SS FIRE a °
NS x Ve & o
3 STATION eS wt
: 21 as
i » Os
Qe Oe
MILLS “5 %9,
PENINSULA ‘8, hy S m
on Oe % S
HOSPITAL & %s t 2 “s 6
Bx %, £6) Ge
% % oy Y & 2)
} o% %, ©, OF
%, C ye % % %e .
~ ° aS %, % SB as

2. North B St/1st Ave 3. South Claremont St/1st Ave

4. South Ellsworth Ave/2nd Ave

North B St

g
q
sg
a
5
gg
a
Z|
5
fe}
a

South Claremont St

dst Ave 2nd Ave

¥ ©

74 (59)

79 (138) <>

24 (80)

5. South Claremont St/East 2nd Ave

F e XX(YY) AM(PM) Project Trip Volumes  ¥§§ Signalized Intersection @ Stop Sign
a 43 (46)
g} 171 (119 fect Si ;

© rn 7s) 1) Project site +) Study Intersections

Figure 4
Existing Vehicle Volumes
Intersection Traffic Volumes, Lane Configurations, and Traffic Controls


--- page 199 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

Table 2: Signalized Intersection LOS Criteria

Level of Description Average Control Delay Per
Service P Vehicle (Seconds)

Operations with very low delay occurring with favorable progression

A and/or short cycle length. < 10

B Operations with low delay occurring with good progression and/or short 5 10 and < 20
cycle lengths.

C Operations with average delays resulting from fair progression and/or 5 20 and < 35

longer cycle lengths. Individual cycle failures begin to appear.

Operations with longer delays due to a combination of unfavorable
D progression, long cycle lengths, or high volume-to-capacity (V/C) ratios. > 35 and < 55
Many vehicles stop and individual cycle failures are noticeable.

Operations with high delay values indicating poor progression, long cycle
E lengths, and high V/C ratios. Individual cycle failures are frequent > 55 and < 80
occurrences.

Operation with delays unacceptable to most drivers occurring due to over

. . > 80
saturation poor progression, or very long cycle lengths.

F

Source: Transportation Research Board, 2016. Highway Capacity Manual 6" Edition

Table 3: Unsignalized Intersection LOS Criteria

Average Control Delay (seconds

Description per vehicle)
Unsignalized Intersections

Represents free flow. Individual users are virtually unaffected by A <10
others in the traffic stream. ~
Stable flow, but the presence of other users in the traffic stream

j ; B > 10to 15
begins to be noticeable.
Stable flow, but the operation of individual users becomes
significantly affected by interactions with others in the traffic C > 15 to 25
stream.
Represents high-density, but stable flow. D > 25 to 35
Represents operating conditions at or near the capacity level. E > 35 to 50
Represents forced or breakdown flow. F > 50

Source: Highway Capacity Manual 6th Edition, Transportation Research Board of the National Academies of Science, 2017.

Table 4 below presents existing LOS and intersection delay for each study intersection. All intersections
operate acceptably under existing conditions in both the AM and PM peak periods. See Appendix A for
detailed LOS results.

on 18


--- page 200 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

Table 4: Existing LOS and Delay Results

Existing
Intersection LOS Threshold | Peak Period Delay
(seconds)
AM < 10 A
1. Balwin Avenue and South B Street E
PM < 10 A
id- AM 11 B
2. 15%* Avenue and South B Street lca)
(45 Secs) PM 13 B
AM < 10 A
3. 15%* Avenue and South Claremont Street E
PM < 10 A
Mid-D AM 16 B
4. 2™4 Avenue and South Ellsworth Avenue
(45 Secs) PM 18 B
AM < 10 A
5. 2"4 Avenue and South Claremont Street E
PM < 10 A

Source: Fehr & Peers, 2023

Existing Parking Conditions

There is no on-street parking available on 15t Avenue adjacent to the project site, but there is metered on-
street parking along South B Street, totaling 11 metered spaces. The proposed project is also in the
vicinity of two public City-owned parking garages: the Main Street Garage and the Transit Center Parking
Garage.

South B Street, adjacent to the project site, has the following parking restrictions:

e South B Street: No parking between 4 AM - 6 AM every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday for
street cleaning. Paid parking between 8 AM and 6 PM Monday through Saturday. There are two
24 minute time restricted parking spaces.

City-owned public parking facilities in the vicinity of the proposed project include:

e Main Street Parking Garage: The closest entrance is on 1*t Avenue, opposite the San Mateo
Caltrain station, between South B Street and South Railroad Avenue.

e Transit Center Parking Garage: This parking garage is entered through the San Mateo Caltrain
station parking lot, which is accessed via 1%t Avenue or Transit Center Way.


--- page 201 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

Opening Year Conditions

The Opening Year reflects the anticipated transportation conditions at the time of the occupancy of the
proposed project. Opening Year Conditions include traffic volumes added by nearby developments that
have been approved but not yet completed or occupied near the project site and are expected to add
traffic to the study intersections. The approved project list includes:

e 435 East 3 Avenue Office and Residential Mixed-Use Development
e Block 21 Office and Residential Mixed-Use Development

Of these two nearby projects, the 435 East 3’? Avenue mixed-use Development is the only background
project that affects the proposed project's study intersections. Figure 5 shows the location of these
projects relative to the project site. Background traffic generated by other reasonably foreseeable
projects, including approved and proposed projects not shown on this figure in Downtown San Mateo,
are captured within the cumulative conditions analysis presented later in this report.

Vehicle volumes for 435 East 3"? Avenue were extrapolated from the TIA provided by the City of San
Mateo. Opening Year traffic volumes that include the estimated traffic generated by this development
project are shown in Figure 6.

>

20


--- page 202 ---
a)
%
“w
YM
“Oo
6 x
we
&?
fe)
5S
“
SS
s &
SS
°
oe
& &
& Re
we e x
~
yo SS
wy s
nS i
o <e
w os
oo 7)
x &%
y,
ee
©
S) %
%, CZ

STATION

want

MILLS
PENINSULA

HOSPITAL

SUNNYBRAE
ELEMENTARY

SCHOOL

oe iS) %
“ %, %¢,
cS ® 9 a
eo ve %, ‘Y
© %x % Y
% %
% Se i)
3 Se
ZF
LN peoy yynowpeg
85 s
o) &
7%, 7) be

rs n
ie, virginia ANS

(included in cumulative traffic scenario)

|| Application Under Review

|) 31-57 S B Street Project Location

1!) Background Projects

A Driveways

Figure 5

Background Projects


--- page 203 ---
%, We wm, 2 we
B @ (e) % SD “,
Z & BS Me a &x
ON % vA %
a % &
y x RZ %,
“oe <2 Ss
Ros os %
%
&..
© %
“x
e@
% > 2 >»
3 — ‘e
% or @ v%
oS oe >
aS Ne eS
XS ot 3e
ee RS FIRE ee
2 % STATION Ss
21
5 » Os
Qe Oe
MILLS “5 2
PENINSULA ‘8, %,
HOSPITAL  % Co
® L
2, x
Ze. ©
~ © aw %

North B St

XX(YY)

43 (46)
181 (121)

Y ©

AM(PM) Project Trip Volumes

&
e,
FIRE
STATION.
24
SDS
(o)
“5
%
% %
Ox %
2) %
4 eS
g ,
% &
Ox
Xa °
Ox Ns
we
as
SD
e) SD
% z SD
% ) % “Gs
oy Y & 2)
&, %@ °%
2 B, S

50 (44)

< 132 (87)

20 (24)

74 (59)

79 (138) <>
24 (80)

FEE Signalized Intersection @ Stop Sign

| | Project Site +) Study Intersections

Figure 6
Opening Year Vehicle Volumes

Intersection Traffic Volumes, Lane Configurations, and Traffic Controls


--- page 204 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

Opening Year Conditions Intersection Level of Service

Table 5 below presents opening year LOS and intersection delay for each study intersection. There are
limited changes in LOS between existing conditions and opening year conditions as the single
background project would not substantially increase traffic volumes at these study locations. All of the
study intersections perform acceptably under opening year conditions in both the AM and PM peak
periods. See Appendix A for detailed LOS results.

Table 5: Opening Year LOS and Delay Results

Existing Opening Year

LOS
Threshold

Intersection

1. Balwin Avenue and : AM < 10 A < 10 A
South B Street PM < 10 A < 10 A
2. 15%* Avenue and South B Mid-D AM 11 B 1 B
Street (45 Secs) PM 13 B 13 B
3. 1st Avenue and South ; AM < 10 A < 10 A
Claremont Street PM < 10 A < 10 A
4. 2™4 Avenue and South Mid-D AM 16 B 16 B
Ellsworth Avenue (45 Secs) PM 18 B 18 B
5. 24 Avenue and South ; AM < 10 A < 10 A
Claremont Street PM < 10 A < 10 A

Source: Fehr & Peers, 2023

Delay Delay

23


--- page 205 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

Project Conditions

The proposed project is a four-story mixed-use development with office and retail uses. This section
presents the traffic conditions with the project, including VMT and LOS, while site access and circulation
issues and other related topics are evaluated within the Additional Transportation Analysis sections.

Project Trip Generation and Distribution
Trip Generation

Trip generation is the process of estimating the number of vehicles that would likely access the Project on
any given day. Table 6 presents the trip generation for the Project. Trip generation data published by the
Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) in the Trip Generation Manual (11th Edition) for the proposed
project's land uses was used to estimate the trip generation of the project. ITE rates are primarily based on
data collected at single-use suburban sites where the automobile is often the only travel mode. However,
the Project site is in a somewhat dense, mixed-use urban environment near frequent regional and local
transit service, where many trips are walk, bike, or transit trips. Therefore, the Environmental Protection
Agency's (EPA) trip generation methodology known as MXD was used to adjust these ITE trip generation
estimates to account for the built environment surrounding the Project site.

MXD adjusted trip generation rates consider the mixed-use nature of the proposed project and its
proximity to transit and Downtown San Mateo’s amenities, services, and residential uses. '* The MXD
method accounts for factors such as diversity of land uses, the design of the pedestrian and bicycling
environment, community demographics, and the site’s distance to transit. Trip reductions from internal
capture represent trips between the two project land uses (e.g., retail visitors who may work in the office
space). Trip reductions from walk/bike trips represent external person trips that are taken by foot or by
bicycle (e.g., nearby San Mateo residents commuting to the proposed project on foot or bike).

In addition to the trip reductions from internal capture and the project site's location, trips from the
project site’s existing uses are also subtracted from the proposed project's trip generation estimates. The
project site’s existing trips were calculated using the same methodology as the proposed project. The ITE
rate for “Strip Retail Plaza (822)” was used to estimate the vehicle trips from the existing donut shop. ITE
also provides a rate for “Coffee/Donut Shop without Drive-Through Window (936)”, but this rate was not
selected for these trip generation estimates, as the studies used to calculate that trip generation rate are

13 For more information, visit https://www.fehrandpeers.com/mxd/. MXD methodologies were developed in tandem
with the EPA as documented in the American Planning Association PAS Memo “Getting Trip Generation Right:
Eliminating the Bias Against Mixed Use Development" by Jerry Walters, Brian Bochner, and Reid Ewing (May 2013).
This paper can be accessed here: https://www.fehrandpeers.com/wp-
content/uploads/2019/11/APA PAS May2013 GettingTripGenRight-2.pdf. These methodologies were revalidated as
documented in the November/December 2020 issue of the APA’s PAS Memo, entitled “Still Getting Trip Generation
Right: Revalidating MXD+".

Ss
Ci] 24



--- page 206 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

from coffee shops in larger automobile-oriented shopping centers and not located in a more walkable
environment like Downtown San Mateo.

As shown in Table 6 below, the trips generated by the existing uses were subtracted from the trips
generated from the proposed project. After this reduction, the proposed project would generate a total of
40 net new vehicle trips in the AM peak period and 50 new vehicle trips in the PM peak period.

Table 6: Project Vehicle Trip Generation

Land Use ITE LU Code | Quantity | Units’

Proposed project

General Office Building 710 33.5 KSF 363 45 6 51 8 40 48
Strip Retail Plaza (>40 KSF) 822 5 KSF 272 7 5 12 17 «(17 33
Internal Capture and Location Based Reductions?

Internal Capture -2 -2 0 -2 0 0 0

External Walk, Bike, and Transit -159 -14 -3 -17 -6 -14 = -20
Proposed Project Subtotal 474 36 8 44 19 43 61
Existing Uses

Strip Retail Plaza (<40k Sq Ft) 822 1.8 KSF 98 2 2 4 6 66 12
Location Based Reductions?

External Walk, Bike, and Transit -12 0 0 0 -1 0 -1

Existing Uses Subtotal 86 2 2 4 5 6 11

Net new trips (Proposed

4 ; Ane 388 34 6 40 14 37 50
project minus existing)

Notes: Assumes 100% of existing uses were occupied
1. KSF=1,000 square feet
2. Location based reductions were calculated using the EPA’s MXD trip generation methodology, which accounts for built
environment factors not accounted in the ITE Trip Generation Manual such as diversity of land uses, the design of the
pedestrian and bicycle environment, site demographics, and the project's accessibility of transit, among other factors.
Internal trip reductions account for trips made between land uses on the site.

Sources: Fehr & Peers; ITE Trip Generation Manual, 11" Edition, 2023

The MXD methodology estimates about a 25 to 30 percent reduction in automobile trips compared to
rates presented in the ITE Trip Generation manual, due to the mix of nearby land uses (e.g., employees
who live within walking distance) and proximity to transit. To provide a more conservative estimate, these
trip generation reductions do not account for the Project’s transportation demand management (TDM)
program, including the low VMT by design measures incorporated into the Project design such as the
Project's density, mix of land uses, and transit-oriented location.'* Implementation of programmatic and

14 California Air Pollution Control Officers Association's (CAPCOA) Handbook, December 2021. Available at:
https://www.airquality.org/ClimateChange/Documents/Final%20Handbook AB434.pdf

~
& :



--- page 207 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

design-based TDM measures via the TDM Plan could further reduce automobile mode share, vehicle trips
and parking demand.

Comparing MXD results to available mode share data and vehicle trip counts from nearby communities
helps gauge the reasonableness of trip reductions. Recent studies of travel behavior in Downtown
Redwood City and Downtown Palo Alto found that approximately 45 percent and 52 percent of
employees drive alone in the two cities, respectively.'> These mode shares are 30 to 40 percent lower than
the average U.S. drive alone rate. The Palo Alto study segmented the mode share by type of employment
use, with the two uses most likely to have robust TDM programs (technology and government) achieving
an approximately 40 percent drive alone mode share. Vehicle counts collected at mixed-use residential
and office buildings adjacent to the Hillsdale Caltrain station by the San Mateo Rail Corridor
Transportation Management Agency (TMA) were 40 to 50 percent lower than traditional suburban
buildings.'® Therefore, the MXD results reasonably fall within the range of similar office buildings in a
similar location context.

Trip Distribution

Trips generated by the project were distributed through the five study intersections based on existing
travel patterns on the surrounding roadway system and the locations of nearby complementary land uses.
The peak-period trips generated by the existing and proposed uses were assigned to the roadway
network based on trip origins and destinations, roadway lane configurations, and the location of freeway
on/off ramps. The trip distribution patterns were compared to ensure consistency with other recent
studies, such as the nearby Block 21 office & residential mixed-use development.”

The proposed project does not include an on-site parking garage. Therefore, project trips were assigned
to two nearby City-owned public parking garages: the Transit Center Parking Garage and the Main Street
Parking Garage. Based on occupancy data on these two parking garages, and due to limited supply of
available spaces at the Main Street Garage, it was assumed that 60 percent of project trips would use the
Transit Center Parking Garage and that the remaining 40 percent of project trips would use the Main
Street Parking Garage.

For the proposed project, approximately 45% of trips would travel to and from the two public parking
garages via US 101. These trips would use South Delaware Street and South Claremont Street to access
the US 101 ramps on 3" Avenue and East 4‘ Avenue. About 45% of trips would travel to the garages from

15 City of Redwood City. July 2018. Redwood City Moves. Page 8 presents a summary of the existing mode share for
downtown Redwood City compared to suburban neighborhoods: http://rwcmoves.com/wp-
content/uploads/2018/07/RWCmoves-Transportation-Plan_July16.pdf
City of Palo Alto, 2019 Palo Alto TMA Annual Report, May 2020. Appendix A presents the survey results by year and
by sector: https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/files/assets/public/agendas-minutes-reports/reports/city-manager-
reports-cmrs/year-archive/2020/id-11307-tma-annual-report.pdf

16 San Mateo Rail Corridor Transportation Management Agency. January 2018. 2017 Annual Report. This study
included recently completed residential and office buildings in Bay Meadows, which 40 to 50 percent lower than
traditional suburban buildings.

7 Fehr & Peers., Block 21 Office & Residential Mixed-Use Development TIA, April 2022.

~
& :



--- page 208 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

El Camino Real via Baldwin Avenue, South Ellsworth Avenue, and 24 Avenue. Approximately 5% of trips
would travel to the north via B Street and Claremont Street. Finally, about 5% of trips would go to the
south, both via South Ellsworth Avenue and South Claremont Street. Figure 7 shows the net project trip
distribution and assignment of the project trips at the study intersections.

os

27


--- page 209 ---
%, WO “s 2 we
‘Sy @ QO S) SD ©.
% & S <S % %
S ©
% % % 2 45% <<
% % & %
% & ot Cex 4
ss Wwe Ss
Neg s %
. oe aw
fo)
46 5% FIRE
@ t; STATION
A>
24
SDS
“Gz
45
%
»
% e %,
4, & %
a Ss
% oe <)
as ve ex
Roy we
x ot
& ow FIRE % e
> ge & oe
3 STATION we
. 45% 21 as
i » Os
Q bs
MILLS “5 %9,
PENINSULA ‘8, Vy L
Q a SS
HOSPITAL \. %, Gs Gs
O) & 4
“0, x % 6. °
% ce , & ® %
~ cay QO cs S. SK

North B St

XX(YY) AM(PM) Project Trip Volumes $f Signalized Intersection @ Stop Sign

| | Project Site | | Parking Facilities rH) Study Intersections

Figure /
Trip Distribution and Assignment of Project Types


--- page 210 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

Plus Project VMT

VMT is a measurement of the distance and amount that people drive. VMT is calculated by multiplying
the number of trips generated by a project by the total distance of each of those trips. Many factors affect
the amount and distance a person might drive. The density of the surrounding built environment is the
most important factor in the amount of VMT generated per person, as density affects how many places a
person can access within a given distance, time, and cost, using different ways of travel (e.g., private
vehicle, public transit, bicycling, walking, etc.).

Typically, lower density development provides fewer destinations in the immediate vicinity and therefore
offers fewer transportation options than a location with high density area, with mix of land uses, and
numerous ways of travel. Therefore, low-density development typically generates more VMT on a per
capita basis when compared to a similarly sized developments located in urban areas. In general, higher
VMT areas are associated with more air pollution, including greenhouse gas emissions, than lower VMT
areas.

VMT Screening

The Governor's Office of Planning and Research (OPR) has provided recommendations to local
jurisdictions for adopting new VMT guidelines for CEQA analysis. Lead agencies, which include local
jurisdictions like the City of San Mateo, have the final say in designing their methodology to assess VMT
and to determine a relevant threshold that will require further VMT analysis. Lead agencies must prove
that their selected analysis methodology aligns with SB 743’s goals to promote infill development, reduce
greenhouse gases, and reduce VMT.

Per the City of San Mateo’s TIA guidelines, a project does not need to conduct a detailed VMT analysis if
the project is located within a half mile of a high-quality transit stop, as the project can be presumed to
have a less-than-significant VMT impact. The proposed project is located within a half mile of the San
Mateo Caltrain station (see Figure 1), which qualifies as a high-quality transit service as defined by San
Mateo’s TIA guidelines. In addition to being close to high-quality transit, the proposed project must meet
the following requirements to be presumed to have a less-than-significant VMT impact:

e have a floor area ratio of more than 0.75,

e include no more than the minimum parking required by the City of San Mateo,

e be consistent with the Metropolitan Transportation Commissions’ (MTC) Sustainable Communities
Strategy (SCS), and

e the project cannot result in a reduction of affordable residential units.

The proposed project has a floor area ratio of 2.97, does not provide more than the minimum parking
required by the City of San Mateo, is consistent with MTC’s SCS, and does not remove any existing
affordable residential units. The project is consistent with the SCS’s goals of creating healthy and safe
streets by building a complete streets network, and reducing climate emissions by 1) providing land use

~
& :


--- page 211 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

growth, and 2) promoting alternative modes of travel (walking/biking) through improvements like
enhanced sidewalks and bicycle parking.

Therefore, the proposed project would have a less than significant VMT impact in opening year plus
project and cumulative plus project conditions due to its proximity to high-quality transit.

Opening Year Plus Project Vehicle Volumes and Level of Service

The proposed project's net new trips were added to the opening year traffic volumes to develop opening
year plus project volumes, which are shown in Figure 8. Table 7 below presents the opening year and
opening year plus project LOS and intersection delay for each study intersection. There are limited
changes in LOS from Opening Year to Opening Year Plus Project conditions and all the study intersections
perform acceptably in both the AM and PM peak periods. Please see Appendix A for detailed LOS results.

Table 7: Opening Year Plus Project LOS and Delay Results

Opening Year Opening Year Plus Project
Intersection Threshold | Period Delay Los
(seconds) (seconds)
1. Balwin Avenue and c AM < 10 A < 10 A
South B Street PM <10 A <10 A
2. 1st Avenue and SouthB ~—- Mid-D AM 11 B 11 B
Street (45 Secs) PM 13 B 13 B
3. 1 Avenue and South 5 AM < 10 A < 10 A
Claremont Street PM <10 A <10 A
4. 2"¢ Avenue and South Mid-D AM 16 B 16 B
Ellsworth Avenue (45 Secs) PM 18 B 19 B
5. 2°¢ Avenue and South E AM < 10 A < 10 A
Claremont Street PM <10 A <10 A

Source: Fehr & Peers, 2023

on 30


--- page 212 ---
Ox g ~% 2x we
& “ oy 4 %, % Ss o&
“ RS 45 % “, *
{y)
5 %, % <
% “ Z
Y , °°,
7 _ 7
© ce .~ eo
s we be
Neva os %
« oe aS
%
&.. FIRE
“% cm STATION.
24
SDS
“Gs
4
%
2 %,
?A ve %G,
®, & C
ox yw Ry
% ae? ye &
(2 OY Yad
XS Ne
S wake “
> ow FIRE oe °
NS 2g? & oe
3 STATION we
. 21 as
i » Os
° Y
% %
MILLS “5 S
PENINSULA ‘8 Sy S
? on o} S
HOSPITAL eZ Zs 6
Dx 4 Ge
% & 4
© % or %, &
%, % ‘ % CS) Koy ‘
. 8 s fe, %, oO On

a
a
5
2
78 6) oo
84 (140) Sos
24 (80) Ses
- 8 -
L 5. South Claremont St/East 2nd Ave
2) + . . . + .
= | @ XX(YY) AM(PM) Project Trip Volumes $f Signalized Intersection @ Stop Sign
ese &
Son 5 Sted 33) | | Project Site | | Parking Facilities rH) Study Intersections
@ Ae 8 7 (13)
21 (19) at
59 (122) <> Vee
22 (66) ToS
ot
6 “=
S
Figure 8

Opening Year Plus Project Vehicle Volumes
Intersection Traffic Volumes, Lane Configurations, and Traffic Controls


--- page 213 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

Cumulative Conditions

Cumulative conditions reflect estimated future traffic volumes in 2040, approximately 17 years into the
future from the date of the existing traffic counts in May 2023. Future traffic volume forecasts were
developed using estimates from the City of San Mateo Travel Demand Model 2040 General Plan No-Build
scenario, which is consistent with a full buildout the City of San Mateo’s 2030 General Plan.

Cumulative traffic growth was estimated by establishing gateways in the travel demand model in the
vicinity of the project site and at the study intersections. The change in forecasted traffic volumes passing
through those gateways in the model's 2019 and 2040 scenarios was analyzed to estimate traffic growth
in the area. Using this method, the City’s travel demand model forecasts an average 2.3 percent annual
traffic growth rate in the area surrounding the project site.

Based on an analysis of the land use assumptions in the City of San Mateo Travel Demand Model, it was
determined that the proposed project, 31-57 South B Street, is included in the model’s cumulative traffic
forecasts, as the addition of the proposed project is consistent with a full buildout of the City of San
Mateo’s 2030 General Plan. Therefore, the travel demand model's forecasts represent cumulative plus
project traffic conditions. The proposed project's net new trip generation estimates were subtracted from
these volumes to calculate cumulative no project conditions.

616 South B Street (Nazareth Vista) Commercial and Residential Mixed-Use Development
477 9th Avenue Office and Residential Mixed-Use Development

Figure 9 and the cumulative plus project volumes are shown in Figure 10. Pending development projects
in the vicinity of the Proposed Project's study intersections, such as the projects listed below'®, include
nearby planned development projects that do not have trips assigned to the proposed project's study
intersections. The City of San Mateo Travel Demand Model 2040 General Plan No-Build scenario was
reviewed to confirm the growth from these, and other pending development Projects, was included in the
land use growth assumptions.

e Block 21 Office and Residential Mixed-Use Development

e 303 Baldwin Avenue Retail and Residential Mixed-Use Development

e 180 East 3'¢ Avenue Office and Retail Mixed-Use Development

e 435 East 3 Avenue Office and Residential Mixed-Use Development

e 222 East 4th Avenue (Draeger’s) Office, Retail, and Residential Mixed-Use Development

e 480 East 4th Avenue (Kiku Crossing) Residential Development

e 616 South B Street (Nazareth Vista) Commercial and Residential Mixed-Use Development

18 What's Happening in Development. Community Development Department, City of San Mateo.
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/1176/Whats-Happening-in-Development

~
& :



--- page 214 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

e 477 9 Avenue Office and Residential Mixed-Use Development

33


--- page 215 ---
% de % %% eS
& oe t, yy ) B_ CS
‘S x@ QO S) SD @.
Ly < ¢ % oe %
oe) ©) 4 Sp ®
¥, 7A ©. S
Z e & 2
% % Z
% x ve zs)
ee & “S
> ew A
Ros os %
%
&.. FIRE
“% 6, STATION.
24
%
5
%
2 > [o)
22 ve oF “Gs %G,
iy OP ‘> wx “
% eS 6 @ % &
® 8° ve ~ i) %
S +. RY ) ra
~ we ae Ox
Ww eS x bs.
& RS FIRE 8c @ &
e © STATION & . wey
. 21 as
i » Os
Q Zs
MILLS 2
“A
PENINSULA ‘8, %, by 5
HOSPITAL \ & %s , 3, % ‘O
® A % % & %
° S o ©
©} © Z OQ. Zal
%, 6 e yy % % Gy \
x ° & OW cn &, On
1. South B Street /North B St/Baldwin Ave 2. North B St/1st Ave 3. South Claremont St/1st Ave 4. South Ellsworth Ave/2nd Ave
B 3B B
faa) |
: £ 3; @ oe
ee 4 - 5 10 (30) Sig 70 (59)
QS 50 (110) =} B55 (128) QSOs } 189 (125)
e fi 120 (138) r.) 3 10 (30) de 30 (39)
Baldwin Ave ist Ave 1st Ave 2nd Ave
4 © 10 (9) © 106 (88) t
epee ss 10 (40) a, 88 (201) > 115 (198) > ses
(110) se 68 (139) 38 (80) 40 (120) SES
ta) to Nor
| oO N
e : 6 Ss
Z|
5. South Claremont St/East 2nd Ave
i
= 1 @ XX(YY) AM(PM) Project Trip Volumes $f Signalized Intersection @ Stop Sign
8. §
—~T Oo Gl
ose 5 60 (70)
No . .
SSo S| B 247178) Project Site +) Study Intersections
Pe ari L y
East 2nd Ave
30 (30) t ©
90 (170) > RES
30 (90) oto
e N 3 -
Figure 9

Cumulative Vehicle Volumes
Intersection Traffic Volumes, Lane Configurations, and Traffic Controls



--- page 216 ---
Ox g ~% 2x we
& e oy 4 %, % Bs o&
“ RS 45 % “, *
&
% “~% % <
% vad Z
Y 2) °°,
% x we Q,
Oe sO “
s we B.
Neva o %
« oe aS
%
2. FIRE
“% cm STATION.
24
S
“Gs
4
%
2 %,
?A ve %G,
Q & a
- \ Ss
% ae? ye &
(2 OY Yas
XS Ne
& ok Ss
~ so FIRE Se °
AS x) Ox &
3 STATION we
. 21 as
i » Os
[(e) Y
% %
MILLS “%@ S,
PENINSULA ‘8 Sy S
? on o} S
HOSPITAL eZ 2 6
Dx 4 Ge
% & 4
© % or %, &
%, % ‘ % CS) Koy ‘
. S BS fe, 2, oy On

2. North B St/ist Ave
a
faa)
5
° x50 (110) 5-60 (15
120 (140) “ (30).
a 10 (10) 110 (90) io
2 (110, x Ss 90 (210) > 420 (200) > sss
| ee 40 (90) 40 (120) oto
ey, °® @ "ee
E
5. South Claremont St/East 2nd Ave
_ Z e XX(YY) AM(PM) Project Trip Volumes 38 Signalized Intersection @ Stop Sign
ata §
S&r-s 3g
oko Z| 286 (180) | | Project Site | | Parking Facilities rH) Study Intersections
e dk 3 10 (20)
Figure 10

Cumulative Plus Project Vehicle Volumes
Intersection Traffic Volumes, Lane Configurations, and Traffic Controls



--- page 217 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

Cumulative Intersection Level of Service

Table 8 presents the cumulative and cumulative plus project LOS and intersection delay for each study
intersection. See Appendix A for detailed LOS results. Intersection delay increased between the existing
conditions and opening year conditions to the cumulative conditions due to the forecasted traffic volume
growth. The LOS degraded between existing conditions and cumulative no project conditions at the
following intersections:

e 1st Avenue and South Claremont Street
o PM Peak Hour: LOS A to LOS B

e = 2nd Avenue and South Ellsworth Avenue
o PM Peak Hour: LOS B to LOS C

e 24 Avenue and South Claremont Street
o AM Peak Hour: LOS A to LOS B
o PM Peak Hour: LOS A to LOS B

Although the intersection operations worsened from existing to cumulative no projects conditions, all five
study intersections continue to operate acceptably in both the AM and PM peak periods, and the addition
of project trips at these intersections would not have an adverse effect on traffic conditions.

Table 8: Cumulative LOS and Delay Results

... Cumulative No Cumulative Plus
Existing : :
; Project Project
Intersection Threshold | Period Delay Delay Delay
(seconds) (seconds) Los (seconds) Los
1. Balwin Avenue and South E AM < 10 A 8 A < 10 A
B Street PM < 10 A 9 A < 10 A
2. 1* Avenue and South B Mid-D AM 11 B 12 B 12 B
Street! (45 Secs) PM 13 B 14 B 14 B
3. 18t Avenue and South c AM < 10 A 9 A < 10 A
Claremont Street PM < 10 A 13 B 13 B
4. 2™4 Avenue and South Mid-D AM 16 B 18 B 18 B
Ellsworth Avenue (45 Secs) PM 18 B 26 C 26 C
5. 2"¢ Avenue and South E AM < 10 A 11 B 12 B
Claremont Street PM < 10 A 14 B 14 B

Source: Fehr & Peers, 2023
1. These LOS results do not include the proposed pedestrian scramble phase at the intersection of 1st Avenue and South B
Street.

on 36


--- page 218 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

Additional Transportation Analysis

This section presents an analysis of other transportation considerations that were assessed for the
proposed project, including the following:

e Impacts to vehicle, pedestrian & bicycle site access
e Parking

e Hazards and emergency vehicle access

e Neighborhood traffic

The analysis in this section was conducted with reference to the proposed project site plan dated
November 3, 2023, in accordance with the City of San Mateo’s General Plan Circulation Element. This is
outlined in the TIA guidelines, which require that a non-CEQA local transportation analysis is conducted
for land use projects that may have an effect on the local street system. The analysis in this section is
based on professional judgment in accordance with the standards and methods employed by traffic
engineering professionals.

Vehicle Site Access and Circulation
The following section describes vehicle site access and circulation for the proposed project.
Vehicle Parking Conditions

The proposed project would not provide any automobile parking, and due to the project's proximity to
Caltrain and per AB 2097, the project is not required to provide automobile parking. As shown in Table 6,
the proposed project would generate approximately 388 vehicle trips per day, with 40 trips during the AM
peak period and 50 trips during the PM peak period. Proposed project employees and visitors who drive
to the site could use public parking facilities, like the Transit Center Garage and the Main Street Garage, to
park their vehicles.

Loading and Curbside Management

As shown in Figure 11 the proposed project will accommodate trash pickup via the site’s existing rear
alleyway, which is accessed from 1%t Avenue. The Recology truck would stop in the alleyway during
loading, which would typically occur between 6:00-9:00 AM. Given the local serving nature of this alleyway
for the project site and the parcel directly north of the project site, the collection of garbage within the
alleyway would not substantially interfere with other roadway users. In addition to this on-site loading
facility, there is also an existing on-street loading zone, with a painted yellow curb, on 15t Avenue, on the
northwest corner of the intersection of 1st Avenue and South B Street.!°

19 San Mateo’s definitions of yellow zones are presented online at: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/2087/Curb-
Markings

(|
yp "



--- page 219 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

Per City of San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) 27.64.390, the project is required to provide a single 10-
foot by 25-foot loading berth for freight loading for the project's retail uses. The project's proposed office
space, which is 35,888 square feet, is below the 50,000 square foot threshold which would require the
dedication of an additional loading space. While the single on-street loading space does not meet the
requirements listed in SMMC 27.64.390 given the lack of an off-street garage for this facility, the code
allows for a variance or Site Plan and Architectural Review in accordance with SMMC 27.64.390 with
approval by the Zoning Administrator based on the following findings:

(1) Adequate on-street parking is available along a parcel frontage to accommodate a loading berth;

(2) The on-street parking intended for temporary loading purposes is located at least 50 feet from
any intersections, and provides convenient access to building entrances; and

(3) The street width is adequate to accommodate loading vehicles without impeding use of the
sidewalk or local traffic circulation or otherwise be detrimental to public safety.

In addition to this variance, SMMC 27.64.390(b) also allows for a variance application in accordance with
SMMC 27.78.

Pedestrian & Bicycle Site Access and Circulation
Pedestrian Access and Circulation

The primary pedestrian access point to the proposed project is the main building entrance on South B
Street, which includes a lobby area. This entrance will serve the office uses on the second, third, and fourth
floors of the proposed building. In addition to this primary access point, the project includes several
ground floor entrances to the retail and office uses. As shown in Figure 11, these entrances are located
along both 15t Avenue and South B Street.

The project proposes to widen the sidewalks along its frontage and would provide the following:

e South B Street - 11.4-foot sidewalk, inclusive of a through zone of at least 7 feet. The frontage
zone ranges from zero to two feet. A 10-foot planter zone is provided in the curb extension at the
intersection of 1st Avenue.

e = 15* Avenue — 18.5-foot sidewalk, with an approximately 7.5-foot through zone, a 4-foot planter
zone, and a 7-foot frontage zone. A 10-foot planter zone is provided in the curb extension at the
intersection of South B Street.

According to the City of San Mateo’s Pedestrian Design Guidelines, Appendix A of the 2012 San Mateo
Pedestrian Master Plan2°, the recommended minimum sidewalk widths for mixed use developments are as
follows:

20 San Mateo Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan, City of San Mateo & Alta Planning + Design, 2012.

~
Ce 38


--- page 220 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

e Retail/Commercial Type A Parallel Parking - an 11-to-15-foot overall width, inclusive of a 5-to-
7-foot through zone, 4-foot frontage zone and 4-foot planter/furniture zone.

Therefore, the proposed sidewalk widths meet the City’s guidelines.

The adjacent intersection of South B Street and 15t Avenue is signal controlled and has existing marked
crosswalks. All four corners of the intersection include curb ramps, although these ramps are not
directional curb ramps and they do not include truncated domes. Non-audible pedestrian signal heads
with countdown timers and push buttons are provided at each crosswalk.

Per General Plan Policy C4.5 and C4.6 of the City’s General Plan Circulation Element, the City requires as a
condition of development project approval the provision of sidewalks and wheelchair ramps where
lacking and the repair or replacement of damaged sidewalks.

As noted in the City’s TIA Guidelines, pedestrian safety and accessibility connecting to transit stops or
stations in the vicinity of the project site must be assessed. In addition to sidewalks, the City of San
Mateo’s Pedestrian Design Guidelines provide guidance on the following physical pedestrian facilities that
are applicable to the intersections adjacent to the proposed project site, and the lack of these features
could limit pedestrian accessibility to transit stops or stations by creating uncomfortable or unsafe
conditions for people walking.

e A.11. Curb ramps — Directional (two) curb ramps should be installed at intersections such as
those surrounding the Project site and along pedestrian routes to transit. The Project should
ensure that pedestrian crossing push buttons are appropriately placed at these directional curb
ramps to comply with ADA requirements.

e A.12. Curb extensions — Curb extensions should not encroach into bike lanes but should allow
for bus and emergency turning access.

e A.13 & A.14, Standard and high visibility crosswalks — High visibility continental crosswalks
should be prioritized for locations with anticipated high pedestrian activity, or a high number of
pedestrian-related collisions have occurred.

e A.15. Advance stop bars — Advance stop bars should be installed at all controlled intersections.

As noted in the Plus Project VMT section, the proposed project is a transit-oriented development, given its
location adjacent to the San Mateo Caltrain station. Providing the features recommended above would be
consistent with the San Mateo Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) Pedestrian Access Plan toolbox. 2! As
noted in the TOD Pedestrian Access Plan, the City of San Mateo seeks to have development Projects that
are within one-half mile of high-quality transit construct pedestrian amenities along the Project frontage
that meet the City’s design standards.

21 San Mateo Transit-Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Plan, City of San Mateo & Fehr & Peers, 2022. Access at
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4566/TOD-Pedestrian-Access-Plan.

~
Ce 39



--- page 221 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

The proposed project would include the following pedestrian improvements, which are all consistent with
the City’s Pedestrian Design Guidelines and the TOD Pedestrian Access Plan:

e The project would add a curb extension to the northeast corner of the intersection of South B
Street and 15 Avenue.

e The project would add directional curb ramps and truncated domes to the northeast corner of the
intersection of South B Street and 1%t Avenue, and it would add a directional curb ramp and
truncated domes on 1% Avenue at the west side of Transit Center Way.

e The project would add high visibility crosswalks on all legs of the intersection of South B Street
and 1St Avenue.

In addition to these measures, the following additional pedestrian features are recommended to provide
additional pedestrian access improvements from the City’s TOD Pedestrian Access Plan:

Recommendation 1: To be consistent with the recommendations included in the City of San Mateo
Pedestrian Guidelines and the San Mateo TOD Pedestrian Access Plan, the project should provide the
following facilities:

e Add a high visibility crosswalk to west leg of 1%* Avenue and Transit Center Way to provide an
direct pedestrian connection between the project site and the San Mateo Caltrain station and the
Main Street parking garage. For the west leg of this intersection (crossing 1*t Avenue), evaluate
the feasibility of including other pedestrian safety features with City of San Mateo staff, such as a
raised crosswalk or a curb extension and a Rectangular Rapid Flashing Beacon (RRFB) per Federal
Highway Administration (FHWA) recommendations for uncontrolled crossings.*2 Adding this
pedestrian crossing would also include a new pedestrian ramp on the south side of 1%t Avenue,
which may require the removal of a police vehicle parking space.

Bicycle Access and Circulation

The proposed project would include 18 long-term bicycle parking spaces and six short-term bicycle
parking spaces, which would meet the City standards listed in SMMC 27.64.262(f)(1)(A). According to the
site plan, long-term bicycle parking would be provided via a bike room that is accessible through the
building lobby. There would be no stairs or grade changes between the building lobby and the bicycle
storage room, so there would be unobstructed access for employees and visitors parking their bicycles.
This bicycle parking room should also restrict access to only authorized users to ensure that bicycles are
stored securely.

As shown in the site plan in Figure 11, the proposed project includes three publicly accessible bicycle
racks. These public bike racks hold two bicycles each, are they are proposed to be placed in the furniture
zone along South B Street, to the south of the building's main entrance. The City of San Mateo, through
the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan, has proposed several bicycle facilities within the immediate vicinity of the

22 See page16 of the FHWA Guide for Improving Pedestrian Safety at Uncontrolled Crossing Locations for
recommended countermeasures for uncontrolled crossings.

~
& :



--- page 222 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

project site. The proposed Class III bike route on South Claremont Street spans from 9** Avenue in the
south to State Street in the north. There is a proposed Class III bike route on Railroad Avenue, spanning
from 5‘ Avenue in the south to Monte Diablo Avenue in the north. Additionally, there is a proposed Class
IV separated bike lane on East 3" Avenue from El Camino in the west to South Humboldt Street in the
east. This improved bicycle network would provide additional non-driving options to Downtown San
Mateo, the Route ECR bus stops on El Camino Real, and the San Mateo Caltrain station for project visitors
and employees. While the proposed project does not propose to complete any of these projects, it does
not conflict or preclude with these plans.

Transit Access and Circulation

Neither public transit conditions nor public transit access are expected to change with the project. As
noted in Table 6, the project is estimated to generate approximately 159 daily trips by walking, bicycling,
or transit given its proximity to destinations such as downtown San Mateo and high-quality transit
services such as Caltrain and SamTrans. New transit trips could be accommodated by existing nearby
transit routes and services including SamTrans and Caltrain.

As mentioned in the Existing Transit Section of this report, several of the bus stops in the vicinity of the
project site do not have benches or shelters. SamTrans has prepared design guidelines for the minimum
bus stop amenities that are expected at each stop based on service level, which would include a shade
structure with lighting, bench/seating, map & schedule, and real time information for the Route 250 and
292 stops and full shelters with these amenities and bulb outs for Route ECR. The Project does not
propose to implement transit-specific improvements; however, given the adjacency of the Route 250 stop
on 1t Avenue to the project site, the Project has the opportunity to add the minimum bus stop amenities
during construction on the 1*t Avenue project frontage. This recommendation, in combination with the
pedestrian improvements recommended above, would ensure that the Project provides the transit and
pedestrian amenities to facilitate safe and comfortable waiting areas and paths of travel to and from
transit.

Recommendation 2: To be consistent with the recommendations included in the SamTrans Bus Stop
Improvement Plan, the project should provide the following transit features:

e Benches/seating

e Shade structure with lighting
e Real-time arrival information
e Trash receptacles

Hazards and Emergency Vehicle Access

The proposed project would not create or worsen existing roadway hazards as noted in the above
sections. The project does not propose altering the existing roadway network and does not propose new
vehicular roadways that would create hazards or impede emergency vehicle access.

ol “


--- page 223 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

Neighborhood Traffic

Due to the relatively small increase in net new vehicle volumes generated by the project, the impact to
neighboring streets will be low, given the project's location within Downtown San Mateo. As noted in the
Project Trip Generation and Distribution section of this report, employees and visitors driving to the
project site will likely use the Transit Center Garage or the Main Street Garage to park their vehicles, and
would use streets such El Camino Real, 37 Avenue, and East 4" Avenue to reach freeways, and regional
destinations. These streets are all designated as arterials in the City of San Mateo General Plan. 7?
Therefore, it is not anticipated that project trips will use the neighborhood street network to access local

and regional destinations.

23 City of San Mateo General Plan Circulation Element: Street Classifications, Figure C-1, November 2011.

~
Ce 42


--- page 224 ---
UR|d AUS Pall
LL eunbl4

UO!}EWNOJUI JeEALe al}-jea1 pue ‘6u14y61 pasueyus ‘a1nj}oNI}s
apeys ‘sayouaq se yons sdo}s snq je Ssainjzeay jisues} ppy

anusay
JS, pue Aeqy sa}Ua5
yisuedy ze 4;eMssoid

Ayyiqisin ybiy e ppy

Ph

fa ~

WOOY dnd Suis |

=

zh H
HLSSU STEISIONY

o0uel}Uq
[le}oy UPLI}SOped

S

col
‘S3ILINOV- -

60h

AUeERIEL |

| a

90ue1}Uq
J!e39y UeLYsapad

2h
YSINUOISNVYL

80h
30d

204

WOOS MSLYS/NI Na J

SOF
WOO TWORELO37a NIV,

LF

FIWDS OL LON

uolsua}Xxy
qin> pasodoig

buppyed a1g
W931 -}4OUS

Gupjied a!1g
Ulo | -Hous



--- page 225 ---
31 -—57 South B Street SPAR Revised Draft Transportation Impact Assessment
May 15, 2024

Conclusion

The proposed project will not result in CEQA impacts on VMT, bicycle, pedestrian, or transit circulation, or
hazards and emergency access. The proposed project's VMT impact is presumed to be less-than-
significant due to its proximity to high-quality transit. The project presents no adverse LOS effects or site
circulation issues, and the addition of proposed Project trips would not result in adverse effects on traffic
operations. The project does not include features that would disrupt nearby roadway facilities nor
generate a substantial number of vehicle trips that would worsen or create new traffic issues.
Recommendations for improving site access to ensure consistency with San Mateo standards and best
planning practices include providing direct pedestrian connections and adding bus stop amenities that
align with the SamTrans Bus Stop Improvement Plan recommendations.

44

os


--- page 226 ---
Appendix A: LOS Calculation
Worksheets


--- page 227 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

7: North B St/South B Street & Baldwin Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Existing AM
Fehr & Peers

EBL

47
47
0.82

EBR

35

0.82

43

NBLn1

54%
46%

0%
Stop

2.362
0.068
7.7

0.2

EBLn1
57%
0%
43%
Stop
82
47

0

35
100

1
0.112
4.039
Yes
880
2.096
0.114
7.6

A

0.4

NBT

21
21
0.82

26

SBLn1
0%
53%
47%
Stop
55

SBT
b
29
29

0.82

SBR

26

0.82

32

12/28/2023

Synchro 11 Report

Page 1


--- page 228 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary

8: 1st Ave & North B St 12/28/2023
A ~ # ®A NS

Movement EBL EBT WBI WBR_ SBL__ SBR

Lane Configurations Fi b yf

Traffic Volume (veh/h) 10 50 80 36 46 18

Future Volume (veh/h) 10 50 80 36 46 18

Initial Q (Qb), veh 0 0 0 0 0 0

Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT) 0.98 0.97 1.00 0.78

Parking Bus, Adj 100 100 100 100 100 1.00

Work Zone On Approach No No No

Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/In 1826 1826 1826 1826 1826 1826

Adj Flow Rate, veh/h 11 54 87 39 50 20

Peak Hour Factor 0.92 092 092 092 092 0.92

Percent Heavy Veh, % 5 5 5 5 5 5

Cap, veh/h 168 746 572 256 191 17

Arrive On Green 0.48 0.48 0.48 0.48 0.21 0.21

Sat Flow, veh/h 188 1540 1180 529 927 371

Grp Volume(v), veh/h 65 0 0 126 71 0

Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/In 1729 0 0 1709 1317 0

Q Serve(g_s), s 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.3 2.5 0.0

Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s 1.0 0.0 0.0 2.3 2.5 0.0

Prop In Lane 0.17 0.31 0.70 0.28

Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 914 0 0 828 272 0

VIC Ratio(X) 0.07 0.00 0.00 015 0.26 0.00

Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h 914 0 0 828 395 0

HCM Platoon Ratio 100 100 1.00 100 1.00 1.00

Upstream Filter(l) 100 000 000 100 1.00 0.00

Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 76 0.0 0.0 79 = 18.3 0.0

Incr Delay (d2), s/veh 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.2 0.0

Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0

pile BackOfQ(50%),veh/In 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.8 0.7 0.0

Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh

LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh Wl 0.0 0.0 83 18.5 0.0

LnGrp LOS A A A A B A

Approach Vol, veh/h 65 126 71

Approach Delay, s/veh Tf 8.3 18.5

Approach LOS A A B

Timer - Assigned Phs 2 6 8

Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 35.2 35.2 19.8

Change Period (Y+Rc), s 8.5 8.5 8.5

Max Green Setting (Gmax), s 21.5 21.5 16.5

Max Q Clear Time (g_ct+l1), s 3.0 4.3 4.5

Green Ext Time (p_c), s 0.2 0.4 0.1

Intersection Summary

HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
HCM 6th LOS

Existing AM
Fehr & Peers

10.9
B

Synchro 11 Report
Page 2


--- page 229 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

11: South Claremont St & 1st Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Existing AM
Fehr & Peers

NBLn‘1
40%
54%

6%
Stop
160

2.494
0.205
8.6

0.8

EBLn1
8%
62%
29%
Stop

2.499
0.123
8.1

0.4

WBLn‘1
16%
74%
11%
Stop

2.674
0.077
8.1

0.2

WBT

42
42
0.97

SBLn1
7%
83%
10%
Stop
99

7

82

WBR

OD WN ®D ®D

NBL

64

0.97

66

NB
SB

EB

WB

8.6

SBL

12/28/2023

SBT __SBR
eb

82 10

82 10

0.97 ~—-:0.97

3 3

85 10

{ 0

Synchro 11 Report

Page 3


--- page 230 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary

12: South Ellsworth Ave & 2nd Ave 12/28/2023
Asryerrt Kx ters 4

Movement EBL EBT  EBR  WBL WBI WBR NBL NBT NBR SBL SBI __ SBR
Lane Configurations bh rey rey rary

Traffic Volume (veh/h) 74 79 24 20 132 50 15 89 12 9 91 45
Future Volume (veh/h) 74 79 24 20 132 50 15 89 12 9 91 45
Initial Q (Qb), veh 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT) 0.97 0.90 0.94 0.92 0.98 0.93 0.97 0.95
Parking Bus, Adj 1.00 100 088 100 100 088 100 100 088 100 1.00 0.88
Work Zone On Approach No No No No

Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/In 1961 1961 1961 1885 1885 1885 1885 1885 1885 1961 1961 1961
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h 85 91 28 23 152 57 17 102 14 10 105 52
Peak Hour Factor 0.87 O87 O87 087 087 087 087 087 087 087 087 0.87
Percent Heavy Veh, % 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Cap, veh/h 196 177 45 88 242 84 117 551 70 81 455 212
Arrive On Green 0.23 023 023 023 023 023 0438 0438 0438 043 043 80.43
Sat Flow, veh/h 459 118 197 76 1063 371 104 1282 163 29 1060 493
Grp Volume(v), veh/h 204 0 0 232 0 0 133 0 0 167 0 0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/In 1435 0 0 1510 0 0 1550 0 0 1582 0 0
Q Serve(g_s), s 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s 6.7 0.0 0.0 Wl 0.0 0.0 2.9 0.0 0.0 3.7 0.0 0.0
Prop In Lane 0.42 0.14 0.10 0.25 0.13 0.11 0.06 0.31
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 418 0 0 414 0 0 738 0 0 748 0 0
VIC Ratio(X) 0.49 0.00 0.00 056 0.00 000 018 000 000 022 0.00 # 0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h 550 0 0 562 0 0 738 0 0 748 0 0
HCM Platoon Ratio 1.00 100 1.00 1.00 100 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Upstream Filter(l) 100 000 000 100 000 000 100 000 000 100 0.00 £0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 19.2 0.0 0.0 19.7 0.0 0.0 9.9 0.0 0.0 10.2 0.0 0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.7 0.0 0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0

pile BackOfQ(50%),veh/In 2.2 0.0 0.0 2.6 0.0 0.0 1.0 0.0 0.0 1.3 0.0 0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh

LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh 19.5 0.0 0.0 20.1 0.0 0.0 10.5 0.0 0.0 10.9 0.0 0.0
LnGrp LOS B A A C A A B A A B A A
Approach Vol, veh/h 204 232 133 167
Approach Delay, s/veh 19.5 20.1 10.5 10.9
Approach LOS B C B B

Timer - Assigned Phs 2 4 6 8

Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 33.7 22.3 33.7 22.3

Change Period (Y+Rc), s *9.6 *9.6 *96 *96

Max Green Setting (Gmax), s *18 *18 *18 *18

Max Q Clear Time (g_ct+l1), s 4.9 8.7 5.7 9.7

Green Ext Time (p_c), s 0.4 0.6 0.5 0.6

Intersection Summary

HCM 6th Ctrl Delay 16.1

HCM 6th LOS B

Notes

* HCM 6th computational engine requires equal clearance times for the phases crossing the barrier.

Existing AM Synchro 11 Report
Fehr & Peers Page 4


--- page 231 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

13: South Claremont St & East 2nd Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Existing AM
Fehr & Peers

NBLn‘1
18%
74%

8%
Stop
129

EBLn1
21%
58%
21%
Stop

100
21
58
21

105

1
0.139
4.77
Yes
747
2.826
0.141
8.6

A

0.5

WBLn1
3%
771%
19%
Stop
221
7

171
43
233

1
0.297
4.592
Yes
779
2.639
0.299
9.6

A

1.2

SBLn1
23%
1%

7%
Stop
119
27

84

8

125

1
0.171
4.906
Yes
728
2.961
0.172
Fe]

A

0.6

SBL

27

0.95

28

SB
NB

WB

EB

12/28/2023

SBT __SBR
eb

84 8

84 8

0.95 0.95

2 2

88 8

{ 0

Synchro 11 Report

Page 5


--- page 232 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

7: North B St/South B Street & Baldwin Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Existing PM
Fehr & Peers

8.1

EBL _EBR
Lid

83 74

83 74

0.93 0.93

0 0

89 80

1 0
EB
0
SB
1
NB
1
8.3
A

NBLn‘1

36%

64%

0%

Stop

102

37

65

0

110

1

0.137

4.487

Yes

802

2.501

0.137

8.2

A

0.5

EBLn1
53%
0%
47%
Stop
157

NBT

65
65
0.93

70

SBLn1
0%
50%
50%
Stop
121

0

60

61
130

1
0.148
44
Yes
877
2.114
0.148
78

SBT
b
60
60

0.93

SBR

61

0.93

66

12/28/2023

Synchro 11 Report

Page 1


--- page 233 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary

8: 1st Ave & North B St 12/28/2023
A ~ # ®A NS

Movement EBL EBT WBI WBR_ SBL__ SBR

Lane Configurations Fi b yf

Traffic Volume (veh/h) 24 98 97 78 113 21

Future Volume (veh/h) 24 98 97 78 113 21

Initial Q (Qb), veh 0 0 0 0 0 0

Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT) 0.98 0.94 1.00 0.63

Parking Bus, Adj 100 100 100 100 100 1.00

Work Zone On Approach No No No

Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/In 1870 1870 1870 1870 1870 1870

Adj Flow Rate, veh/h 25 102 101 81 118 22

Peak Hour Factor 0.96 096 096 096 096 0.96

Percent Heavy Veh, % 2 2 2 2 2 2

Cap, veh/h 196 157 479 385 252 47

Arrive On Green 0.51 0.51 0.51 0.51 0.22 0.22

Sat Flow, veh/h 251 1470 931 147-1128 210

Grp Volume(v), veh/h 127 0 0 182 141 0

Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/In 1721 0 0 1679 1348 0

Q Serve(g_s), s 0.0 0.0 0.0 3.8 5.9 0.0

Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s 2.3 0.0 0.0 3.8 5.9 0.0

Prop In Lane 0.20 0.45 0.84 0.16

Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 952 0 0 864 302 0

VIC Ratio(X) 0.13 0.00 0.00 0.21 0.47 ~—0.00

Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h 952 0 0 864 404 0

HCM Platoon Ratio 100 100 1.00 100 1.00 1.00

Upstream Filter(l) 100 000 000 100 1.00 0.00

Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 8.2 0.0 0.0 86 21.9 0.0

Incr Delay (d2), s/veh 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.6 0.4 0.0

Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0

pile BackOfQ(50%),veh/In 0.9 0.0 0.0 1.4 1.8 0.0

Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh

LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh 8.5 0.0 0.0 9.1 22.3 0.0

LnGrp LOS A A A C A

Approach Vol, veh/h 127 182 144

Approach Delay, s/veh 8.5 9.1 22.3

Approach LOS A A C

Timer - Assigned Phs 2 6 8

Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 42.0 42.0 23.0

Change Period (Y+Rc), s 8.5 8.5 8.5

Max Green Setting (Gmax), s 28.5 28.5 19.5

Max Q Clear Time (g_ct+l1), s 4.3 5.8 79

Green Ext Time (p_c), s 0.4 0.7 0.2

Intersection Summary

HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
HCM 6th LOS

Existing PM
Fehr & Peers

13.1
B

Synchro 11 Report
Page 2


--- page 234 ---
HCM 6th AWSC
11: South Claremont St & 1st Ave

Intersection

Intersection Delay, s/veh 9.6
Intersection LOS A
Movement EBL EBT
Lane Configurations ra ey
Traffic Vol, veh/h 7 142
Future Vol, veh/h 7 142
Peak Hour Factor 0.87 0.87
Heavy Vehicles, % 2 2
Mvmt Flow 8 163
Number of Lanes 0 1
Approach EB
Opposing Approach WB
Opposing Lanes 1
Conflicting Approach Left SB
Conflicting Lanes Left 1
Conflicting Approach Right NB
Conflicting Lanes Right 1

HCM Control Delay 10

HCM LOS A

Lane NBLni_ EBLn1
Vol Left, % 40%
Vol Thru, % 45%
Vol Right, % 15%
Sign Control Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane 157
LT Vol 63
Through Vol 71
RT Vol 23
Lane Flow Rate 180
Geometry Grp 1
Degree of Util (X) 0.251
Departure Headway (Hd) 5.008
Convergence, Y/N Yes
Cap 711
Service Time 3.086
HCM Lane VIC Ratio 0.253
HCM Control Delay 9.8
HCM Lane LOS A
HCM 95th-tile Q 1
Existing PM

Fehr & Peers

SBL

15

0.87

17

SB
NB

WB

EB

9.1

12/28/2023

SBT __SBR
eb

70 21

70 21

0.87 0.87

2 2

80 24

{ 0

Synchro 11 Report

Page 3


--- page 235 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary

12: South Ellsworth Ave & 2nd Ave 12/28/2023
Awerynre Ke ters| 4

Movement EBL EBT  EBR  WBL WBI WBR NBL NBT NBR SBL SBI __ SBR
Lane Configurations bh rey rey rary

Traffic Volume (veh/h) 59 138 80 24 87 44 20 121 40 19 167 73
Future Volume (veh/h) 59 138 80 24 87 44 20 121 40 19 167 73
Initial Q (Qb), veh 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT) 0.87 0.79 0.97 0.79 0.97 0.89 0.95 0.91
Parking Bus, Adj 1.00 100 088 100 100 088 100 100 088 100 1.00 0.88
Work Zone On Approach No No No No

Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/In 1945 1945 1945 1870 1870 1870 1870 1870 1870 1945 1945 1945
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h 71 166 96 29 105 53 24 146 48 23 201 88
Peak Hour Factor 0.83 083 083 #083 083 083 083 #083 083 083 083 0.83
Percent Heavy Veh, % 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2
Cap, veh/h 126 212 110 96 245 110 98 462 141 81 460 190
Arrive On Green 0.27 027 027 027 027 «#2027 «60440604406 604406 604406 6044044
Sat Flow, veh/h 219 118 404 121 900 404 85 1058 323 51. 1054 434
Grp Volume(v), veh/h 333 0 0 187 0 0 218 0 0 312 0 0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/In 1401 0 0 1424 0 0 1465 0 0 1539 0 0
Q Serve(g_s), s 7.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s 14.7 0.0 0.0 7.2 0.0 0.0 6.2 0.0 0.0 9.2 0.0 0.0
Prop In Lane 0.21 0.29 0.16 0.28 ~=0.11 0.22 0.07 0.28
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 448 0 0 451 0 0 701 0 0 731 0 0
VIC Ratio(X) 0.74 0.00 0.00 0.41 0.00 0.00 0.31 0.00 0.00 043 0.00 0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h 654 0 0 657 0 0 701 0 0 731 0 0
HCM Platoon Ratio 1.00 100 1.00 1.00 100 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Upstream Filter(l) 100 000 000 100 000 000 100 000 000 092 0.00 £0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 22.6 0.0 0.0 20.1 0.0 0.0 12.2 0.0 0.0 = =13.1 0.0 0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh 1.1 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.0 1.2 0.0 0.0 1.7 0.0 0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0

pile BackOfQ(50%),veh/In 48 0.0 0.0 2.3 0.0 0.0 2.2 0.0 0.0 3.3 0.0 0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh

LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh 23.7 0.0 0.0 20.3 0.0 0.0 13.4 0.0 0.0 14.7 0.0 0.0
LnGrp LOS C A A C A A B A A B A A
Approach Vol, veh/h 333 187 218 312
Approach Delay, s/veh 23.7 20.3 13.4 14.7
Approach LOS C C B B

Timer - Assigned Phs 2 4 6 8

Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 38.4 27.6 38.4 27.6

Change Period (Y+Rc), s *9.6 *9.6 *96 *96

Max Green Setting (Gmax), s *18 *28 *18 *28

Max Q Clear Time (g_c+l1), s 8.2 16.7 11.2 9.2

Green Ext Time (p_c), s 0.6 1.3 0.8 0.8

Intersection Summary

HCM 6th Ctrl Delay 18.3

HCM 6th LOS B

Notes

* HCM 6th computational engine requires equal clearance times for the phases crossing the barrier.

Existing PM Synchro 11 Report
Fehr & Peers Page 4


--- page 236 ---
HCM 6th AWSC
13: South Claremont St & East 2nd Ave

Intersection

Intersection Delay, s/veh 9.6

Intersection LOS A

Movement EBL EBT EBR  WBL
Lane Configurations ra ey

Traffic Vol, veh/h 19 117 61 13
Future Vol, veh/h 19 117 61 13
Peak Hour Factor 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92
Heavy Vehicles, % 1 1 1 1
Mvmt Flow 21 127 66 14
Number of Lanes 0 1 0 0
Approach EB WB
Opposing Approach WB EB
Opposing Lanes 1 1
Conflicting Approach Left SB NB
Conflicting Lanes Left 1 1
Conflicting Approach Right NB SB
Conflicting Lanes Right 1 1
HCM Control Delay 9.7 9.6
HCM LOS A A
Lane NBLni EBLn1 WBLn1
Vol Left, % 15% 10% 7%
Vol Thru, % 1% 59% 67%
Vol Right, % 14% 31% 26%
Sign Control Stop Stop Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane 130 197 178
LT Vol 20 19 13
Through Vol 92 117 119
RT Vol 18 61 46
Lane Flow Rate 141 214 193
Geometry Grp 1 1 1
Degree of Util (X) 0.198 0.283 0.258
Departure Headway (Hd) 5.046 4.75 48
Convergence, Y/N Yes Yes Yes
Cap 704 749 741
Service Time 3.134 2.827 2.88
HCM Lane VIC Ratio 0.2 0.286 0.26
HCM Control Delay 9.4 9.7 9.6
HCM Lane LOS A A A
HCM 95th-tile Q 0.7 1.2 1
Existing PM

Fehr & Peers

SBLn1
28%
62%
11%
Stop

149
41

92

16
162

1
0.228
5.059
Yes
703
3.143
0.23
9.7

A

0.9

SBL

41

0.92

45

SB
NB

WB

EB

9.7

12/28/2023
SBT __SBR

eb
92 16
92 16
0.92 0.92
1 |
100 17
{ 0

Synchro 11 Report

Page 5


--- page 237 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

7: North B St/South B Street & Baldwin Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Opening Year AM
Fehr & Peers

EBL

47
47
0.82

EBR

35

0.82

43

NBLn1

54%
46%

0%
Stop

2.362
0.068
7.7

0.2

EBLn1
57%
0%
43%
Stop
82
47

0

35
100

1
0.112
4.039
Yes
880
2.096
0.114
7.6

A

0.4

NBT

21
21
0.82

26

SBLn1
0%
53%
47%
Stop
55

SBT
b
29
29

0.82

SBR

26

0.82

32

12/28/2023

Synchro 11 Report

Page 1


--- page 238 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary

8: 1st Ave & North B St 12/28/2023
A ~ # ®A NS

Movement EBL EBT WBI WBR_ SBL__ SBR

Lane Configurations Fi b yf

Traffic Volume (veh/h) 10 50 80 36 46 18

Future Volume (veh/h) 10 50 80 36 46 18

Initial Q (Qb), veh 0 0 0 0 0 0

Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT) 0.98 0.97 1.00 0.78

Parking Bus, Adj 100 100 100 100 100 1.00

Work Zone On Approach No No No

Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/In 1826 1826 1826 1826 1826 1826

Adj Flow Rate, veh/h 11 54 87 39 50 20

Peak Hour Factor 0.92 092 092 092 092 0.92

Percent Heavy Veh, % 5 5 5 5 5 5

Cap, veh/h 168 746 572 256 191 17

Arrive On Green 0.48 0.48 0.48 0.48 0.21 0.21

Sat Flow, veh/h 188 1540 1180 529 927 371

Grp Volume(v), veh/h 65 0 0 126 71 0

Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/In 1729 0 0 1709 1317 0

Q Serve(g_s), s 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.3 2.5 0.0

Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s 1.0 0.0 0.0 2.3 2.5 0.0

Prop In Lane 0.17 0.31 0.70 0.28

Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 914 0 0 828 272 0

VIC Ratio(X) 0.07 0.00 0.00 015 0.26 0.00

Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h 914 0 0 828 395 0

HCM Platoon Ratio 100 100 1.00 100 1.00 1.00

Upstream Filter(l) 100 000 000 100 1.00 0.00

Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 76 0.0 0.0 79 = 18.3 0.0

Incr Delay (d2), s/veh 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.2 0.0

Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0

pile BackOfQ(50%),veh/In 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.8 0.7 0.0

Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh

LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh Wl 0.0 0.0 83 18.5 0.0

LnGrp LOS A A A A B A

Approach Vol, veh/h 65 126 71

Approach Delay, s/veh Tf 8.3 18.5

Approach LOS A A B

Timer - Assigned Phs 2 6 8

Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 35.2 35.2 19.8

Change Period (Y+Rc), s 8.5 8.5 8.5

Max Green Setting (Gmax), s 21.5 21.5 16.5

Max Q Clear Time (g_ct+l1), s 3.0 4.3 4.5

Green Ext Time (p_c), s 0.2 0.4 0.1

Intersection Summary

HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
HCM 6th LOS

Opening Year AM
Fehr & Peers

10.9
B

Synchro 11 Report
Page 2


--- page 239 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

11: South Claremont St & 1st Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Opening Year AM
Fehr & Peers

NBLn‘1
40%
54%

6%
Stop
160

2.494
0.205
8.6

0.8

EBLn1
8%
62%
29%
Stop

2.499
0.123
8.1

0.4

WBLn‘1
16%
74%
11%
Stop

2.674
0.077
8.1

0.2

WBT

42
42
0.97

SBLn1
7%
83%
10%
Stop
99

7

82

WBR

OD WN ®D ®D

NBL

64

0.97

66

NB
SB

EB

WB

8.6

SBL

12/28/2023

SBT __SBR
eb

82 10

82 10

0.97 ~—-:0.97

3 3

85 10

{ 0

Synchro 11 Report

Page 3


--- page 240 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary

12: South Ellsworth Ave & 2nd Ave 12/28/2023
Asryerrt Kx ters 4

Movement EBL EBT  EBR  WBL WBI WBR NBL NBT NBR SBL SBI __ SBR
Lane Configurations bh rey rey rary

Traffic Volume (veh/h) 74 79 24 20 132 50 15 89 12 9 91 45
Future Volume (veh/h) 74 79 24 20 132 50 15 89 12 9 91 45
Initial Q (Qb), veh 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT) 0.97 0.90 0.94 0.92 0.98 0.93 0.97 0.95
Parking Bus, Adj 1.00 100 088 100 100 088 100 100 088 100 1.00 0.88
Work Zone On Approach No No No No

Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/In 1961 1961 1961 1885 1885 1885 1885 1885 1885 1961 1961 1961
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h 85 91 28 23 152 57 17 102 14 10 105 52
Peak Hour Factor 0.87 O87 O87 087 087 087 087 087 087 087 087 0.87
Percent Heavy Veh, % 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Cap, veh/h 196 177 45 88 242 84 117 551 70 81 455 212
Arrive On Green 0.23 023 023 023 023 023 0438 0438 0438 043 043 80.43
Sat Flow, veh/h 459 118 197 76 1063 371 104 1282 163 29 1060 493
Grp Volume(v), veh/h 204 0 0 232 0 0 133 0 0 167 0 0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/In 1435 0 0 1510 0 0 1550 0 0 1582 0 0
Q Serve(g_s), s 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s 6.7 0.0 0.0 Wl 0.0 0.0 2.9 0.0 0.0 3.7 0.0 0.0
Prop In Lane 0.42 0.14 0.10 0.25 0.13 0.11 0.06 0.31
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 418 0 0 414 0 0 738 0 0 748 0 0
VIC Ratio(X) 0.49 0.00 0.00 056 0.00 000 018 000 000 022 0.00 # 0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h 550 0 0 562 0 0 738 0 0 748 0 0
HCM Platoon Ratio 1.00 100 1.00 1.00 100 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Upstream Filter(l) 100 000 000 100 000 000 100 000 000 100 0.00 £0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 19.2 0.0 0.0 19.7 0.0 0.0 9.9 0.0 0.0 10.2 0.0 0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.7 0.0 0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0

pile BackOfQ(50%),veh/In 2.2 0.0 0.0 2.6 0.0 0.0 1.0 0.0 0.0 1.3 0.0 0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh

LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh 19.5 0.0 0.0 20.1 0.0 0.0 10.5 0.0 0.0 10.9 0.0 0.0
LnGrp LOS B A A C A A B A A B A A
Approach Vol, veh/h 204 232 133 167
Approach Delay, s/veh 19.5 20.1 10.5 10.9
Approach LOS B C B B

Timer - Assigned Phs 2 4 6 8

Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 33.7 22.3 33.7 22.3

Change Period (Y+Rc), s *9.6 *9.6 *96 *96

Max Green Setting (Gmax), s *18 *18 *18 *18

Max Q Clear Time (g_ct+l1), s 4.9 8.7 5.7 9.7

Green Ext Time (p_c), s 0.4 0.6 0.5 0.6

Intersection Summary

HCM 6th Ctrl Delay 16.1

HCM 6th LOS B

Notes

* HCM 6th computational engine requires equal clearance times for the phases crossing the barrier.

Opening Year AM Synchro 11 Report
Fehr & Peers Page 4


--- page 241 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

13: South Claremont St & East 2nd Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Opening Year AM
Fehr & Peers

NBLn‘1
18%
74%

8%
Stop
129

2.968
0.187
9.1

0.7

EBLn1
21%
58%
22%
Stop

102

2.842
0.144
8.6

0.5

WBLn1
3%
18%
19%
Stop
231
7

181
43
243

1
0.311
4.606
Yes
778
2.653
0.312
9.7

A

1.3

SBLn1
23%
10%

7%
Stop
120
27

84

9

126

1
0.173
4.933
Yes
723
2.992
0.174
9

A

0.6

SBL

27

0.95

28

SB
NB

WB

EB

12/28/2023

SBT __SBR
eb

84 9

84 i)

0.95 0.95

2 2

88 9

{ 0

Synchro 11 Report

Page 5


--- page 242 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

7: North B St/South B Street & Baldwin Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Opening Year PM
Fehr & Peers

8.1

EBL _EBR
Lid

83 74

83 74

0.93 0.93

0 0

89 80

1 0
EB
0
SB
1
NB
1
8.3
A

NBLn‘1

36%

64%

0%

Stop

102

37

65

0

110

1

0.137

4.487

Yes

802

2.501

0.137

8.2

A

0.5

EBLn1
53%
0%
47%
Stop
157

NBT

65
65
0.93

70

SBLn1
0%
50%
50%
Stop
121

0

60

61
130

1
0.148
44
Yes
877
2.114
0.148
78

SBT
b
60
60

0.93

SBR

61

0.93

66

12/28/2023

Synchro 11 Report

Page 1


--- page 243 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary

8: 1st Ave & North B St 12/28/2023
A ~ # ®A NS

Movement EBL EBT WBI WBR_ SBL__ SBR

Lane Configurations Fi b yf

Traffic Volume (veh/h) 24 98 97 78 113 21

Future Volume (veh/h) 24 98 97 78 113 21

Initial Q (Qb), veh 0 0 0 0 0 0

Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT) 0.98 0.94 1.00 0.63

Parking Bus, Adj 100 100 100 100 100 1.00

Work Zone On Approach No No No

Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/In 1870 1870 1870 1870 1870 1870

Adj Flow Rate, veh/h 25 102 101 81 118 22

Peak Hour Factor 0.96 096 096 096 096 0.96

Percent Heavy Veh, % 2 2 2 2 2 2

Cap, veh/h 196 157 479 385 252 47

Arrive On Green 0.51 0.51 0.51 0.51 0.22 0.22

Sat Flow, veh/h 251 1470 931 147-1128 210

Grp Volume(v), veh/h 127 0 0 182 141 0

Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/In 1721 0 0 1679 1348 0

Q Serve(g_s), s 0.0 0.0 0.0 3.8 5.9 0.0

Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s 2.3 0.0 0.0 3.8 5.9 0.0

Prop In Lane 0.20 0.45 0.84 0.16

Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 952 0 0 864 302 0

VIC Ratio(X) 0.13 0.00 0.00 0.21 0.47 ~—0.00

Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h 952 0 0 864 404 0

HCM Platoon Ratio 100 100 1.00 100 1.00 1.00

Upstream Filter(l) 100 000 000 100 1.00 0.00

Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 8.2 0.0 0.0 86 21.9 0.0

Incr Delay (d2), s/veh 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.6 0.4 0.0

Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0

pile BackOfQ(50%),veh/In 0.9 0.0 0.0 1.4 1.8 0.0

Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh

LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh 8.5 0.0 0.0 9.1 22.3 0.0

LnGrp LOS A A A C A

Approach Vol, veh/h 127 182 144

Approach Delay, s/veh 8.5 9.1 22.3

Approach LOS A A C

Timer - Assigned Phs 2 6 8

Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 42.0 42.0 23.0

Change Period (Y+Rc), s 8.5 8.5 8.5

Max Green Setting (Gmax), s 28.5 28.5 19.5

Max Q Clear Time (g_ct+l1), s 4.3 5.8 79

Green Ext Time (p_c), s 0.4 0.7 0.2

Intersection Summary

HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
HCM 6th LOS

Opening Year PM
Fehr & Peers

13.1
B

Synchro 11 Report
Page 2


--- page 244 ---
HCM 6th AWSC
11: South Claremont St & 1st Ave

Intersection

Intersection Delay, s/veh 9.6
Intersection LOS A
Movement EBL EBT
Lane Configurations ra ey
Traffic Vol, veh/h 7 142
Future Vol, veh/h 7 142
Peak Hour Factor 0.87 0.87
Heavy Vehicles, % 2 2
Mvmt Flow 8 163
Number of Lanes 0 1
Approach EB
Opposing Approach WB
Opposing Lanes 1
Conflicting Approach Left SB
Conflicting Lanes Left 1
Conflicting Approach Right NB
Conflicting Lanes Right 1

HCM Control Delay 10

HCM LOS A

Lane NBLni_ EBLn1
Vol Left, % 40%
Vol Thru, % 45%
Vol Right, % 15%
Sign Control Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane 157
LT Vol 63
Through Vol 71
RT Vol 23
Lane Flow Rate 180
Geometry Grp 1
Degree of Util (X) 0.251
Departure Headway (Hd) 5.008
Convergence, Y/N Yes
Cap 711
Service Time 3.086
HCM Lane VIC Ratio 0.253
HCM Control Delay 9.8
HCM Lane LOS A
HCM 95th-tile Q 1
Opening Year PM

Fehr & Peers

SBL

15

0.87

17

SB
NB

WB

EB

9.1

12/28/2023

SBT __SBR
eb

70 21

70 21

0.87 0.87

2 2

80 24

{ 0

Synchro 11 Report

Page 3


--- page 245 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary

12: South Ellsworth Ave & 2nd Ave 12/28/2023
Awerynre Ke ters| 4

Movement EBL EBT  EBR  WBL WBI WBR NBL NBT NBR SBL SBI __ SBR
Lane Configurations bh rey rey rary

Traffic Volume (veh/h) 59 138 80 24 87 44 20 121 40 19 167 73
Future Volume (veh/h) 59 138 80 24 87 44 20 121 40 19 167 73
Initial Q (Qb), veh 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT) 0.87 0.79 0.97 0.79 0.97 0.89 0.95 0.91
Parking Bus, Adj 1.00 100 088 100 100 088 100 100 088 100 1.00 0.88
Work Zone On Approach No No No No

Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/In 1945 1945 1945 1870 1870 1870 1870 1870 1870 1945 1945 1945
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h 71 166 96 29 105 53 24 146 48 23 201 88
Peak Hour Factor 0.83 083 083 #083 083 083 083 #083 083 083 083 0.83
Percent Heavy Veh, % 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2
Cap, veh/h 126 212 110 96 245 110 98 462 141 81 460 190
Arrive On Green 0.27 027 027 027 027 «#2027 «60440604406 604406 604406 6044044
Sat Flow, veh/h 219 118 404 121 900 404 85 1058 323 51. 1054 434
Grp Volume(v), veh/h 333 0 0 187 0 0 218 0 0 312 0 0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/In 1401 0 0 1424 0 0 1465 0 0 1539 0 0
Q Serve(g_s), s 7.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s 14.7 0.0 0.0 7.2 0.0 0.0 6.2 0.0 0.0 9.2 0.0 0.0
Prop In Lane 0.21 0.29 0.16 0.28 ~=0.11 0.22 0.07 0.28
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 448 0 0 451 0 0 701 0 0 731 0 0
VIC Ratio(X) 0.74 0.00 0.00 0.41 0.00 0.00 0.31 0.00 0.00 043 0.00 0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h 654 0 0 657 0 0 701 0 0 731 0 0
HCM Platoon Ratio 1.00 100 1.00 1.00 100 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Upstream Filter(l) 100 000 000 100 000 000 100 000 000 098 0.00 0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 22.6 0.0 0.0 20.1 0.0 0.0 12.2 0.0 0.0 = =13.1 0.0 0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh 1.1 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.0 1.2 0.0 0.0 1.8 0.0 0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0

pile BackOfQ(50%),veh/In 48 0.0 0.0 2.3 0.0 0.0 2.2 0.0 0.0 3.3 0.0 0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh

LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh 23.7 0.0 0.0 20.3 0.0 0.0 13.4 0.0 0.0 148 0.0 0.0
LnGrp LOS C A A C A A B A A B A A
Approach Vol, veh/h 333 187 218 312
Approach Delay, s/veh 23.7 20.3 13.4 14.8
Approach LOS C C B B

Timer - Assigned Phs 2 4 6 8

Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 38.4 27.6 38.4 27.6

Change Period (Y+Rc), s *9.6 *9.6 *96 *96

Max Green Setting (Gmax), s *18 *28 *18 *28

Max Q Clear Time (g_c+l1), s 8.2 16.7 11.2 9.2

Green Ext Time (p_c), s 0.6 1.3 0.8 0.8

Intersection Summary

HCM 6th Ctrl Delay 18.3

HCM 6th LOS B

Notes

* HCM 6th computational engine requires equal clearance times for the phases crossing the barrier.

Opening Year PM Synchro 11 Report
Fehr & Peers Page 4


--- page 246 ---
HCM 6th AWSC
13: South Claremont St & East 2nd Ave

Intersection

Intersection Delay, s/veh 9.7

Intersection LOS A

Movement EBL EBT EBR  WBL
Lane Configurations ra ey

Traffic Vol, veh/h 19 122 66 13
Future Vol, veh/h 19 122 66 13
Peak Hour Factor 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92
Heavy Vehicles, % 1 1 1 1
Mvmt Flow 21 133 72 14
Number of Lanes 0 1 0 0
Approach EB WB
Opposing Approach WB EB
Opposing Lanes 1 1
Conflicting Approach Left SB NB
Conflicting Lanes Left 1 1
Conflicting Approach Right NB SB
Conflicting Lanes Right 1 1
HCM Control Delay 9.9 9.6
HCM LOS A A
Lane NBLni EBLn1 WBLn1
Vol Left, % 15% 9% 7%
Vol Thru, % 1% 59% 67%
Vol Right, % 14% 32% 26%
Sign Control Stop Stop Stop
Traffic Vol by Lane 130 207 180
LT Vol 20 19 13
Through Vol 92 122 121
RT Vol 18 66 46
Lane Flow Rate 141 225 196
Geometry Grp 1 1 1
Degree of Util (X) 0.199 0.297 0.262
Departure Headway (Hd) 5.079 4.752 4.821
Convergence, Y/N Yes Yes Yes
Cap 698 749 738
Service Time 3.17 2.828 2.9
HCM Lane VIC Ratio 0.202 0.3 0.266
HCM Control Delay 9.4 9.9 9.6
HCM Lane LOS A A A
HCM 95th-tile Q 0.7 1.2 1
Opening Year PM

Fehr & Peers

SBLn1
28%
62%
11%
Stop

149
41
92
16

162

1
0.229
5.09
Yes
698
3.179
0.232
9.7

A

0.9

SBL

41

0.92

45

SB
NB

WB

EB

9.7

12/28/2023
SBT __SBR

eb
92 16
92 16
0.92 0.92
1 |
100 17
{ 0

Synchro 11 Report

Page 5


--- page 247 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

7: North B St/South B Street & Baldwin Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Opening Year PP AM
Fehr & Peers

76
A

EBL _EBR
Lid

57 35

57 35

0.82 0.82

4 4

70 43

1 0
EB
0
SB
1
NB
1
TT
A

NBLn‘1

54%

46%

0%

Stop

46

25

21

0

56

1

0.067

4.33

Yes

820

2.397

0.068

TT

A

0.2

EBLn1
62%
0%
38%
Stop
92
57

0

35
112

1
0.127
4.084
Yes
871
2.143
0.129
“7

A

0.4

NBT

21
21
0.82

26

SBLn1
0%
53%
47%
Stop
59

SBT
b
31
31

0.82

SBR

28

0.82

34

12/28/2023

Synchro 11 Report

Page 1


--- page 248 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary

8: 1st Ave & North B St 12/28/2023
A ~ # ®A NS

Movement EBL EBT WBI WBR_ SBL__ SBR

Lane Configurations Fi b yf

Traffic Volume (veh/h) 10 52 80 36 48 18

Future Volume (veh/h) 10 52 80 36 48 18

Initial Q (Qb), veh 0 0 0 0 0 0

Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT) 0.98 0.97 1.00 0.78

Parking Bus, Adj 100 100 100 100 100 1.00

Work Zone On Approach No No No

Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/In 1826 1826 1826 1826 1826 1826

Adj Flow Rate, veh/h 11 57 87 39 52 20

Peak Hour Factor 0.92 092 092 092 092 0.92

Percent Heavy Veh, % 5 5 5 5 5 5

Cap, veh/h 161 754 5/1 256 195 15

Arrive On Green 0.48 0.48 0.48 0.48 0.21 0.21

Sat Flow, veh/h 177-1558 ~——- 1180 529 941 362

Grp Volume(v), veh/h 68 0 0 126 73 0

Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/In 1735 0 0 1709 1321 0

Q Serve(g_s), s 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.3 2.5 0.0

Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s 11 0.0 0.0 2.3 2.5 0.0

Prop In Lane 0.16 0.31 0.71 0.27

Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 915 0 0 827 274 0

VIC Ratio(X) 0.07 0.00 0.00 015 0.27 0.00

Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h 915 0 0 827 396 0

HCM Platoon Ratio 100 100 1.00 100 1.00 1.00

Upstream Filter(l) 100 000 000 100 1.00 0.00

Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 76 0.0 0.0 79 = 18.3 0.0

Incr Delay (d2), s/veh 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.2 0.0

Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0

pile BackOfQ(50%),veh/In 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.8 0.7 0.0

Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh

LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh 78 0.0 0.0 83 18.5 0.0

LnGrp LOS A A A A B A

Approach Vol, veh/h 68 126 73

Approach Delay, s/veh 78 8.3 18.5

Approach LOS A A B

Timer - Assigned Phs 2 6 8

Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 35.1 35.1 19.9

Change Period (Y+Rc), s 8.5 8.5 8.5

Max Green Setting (Gmax), s 21.5 21.5 16.5

Max Q Clear Time (g_ct+l1), s 3.1 4.3 4.5

Green Ext Time (p_c), s 0.2 0.4 0.1

Intersection Summary

HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
HCM 6th LOS

Opening Year PP AM
Fehr & Peers

11.0
B

Synchro 11 Report
Page 2


--- page 249 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

11: South Claremont St & 1st Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Opening Year PP AM
Fehr & Peers

NBLn‘1
42%
52%

6%
Stop
165

2.527
0.213
8.7

0.8

EBLn1
8%
62%
30%
Stop
100

2.519
0.129
8.2

0.4

WBLn‘1
15%
76%
10%
Stop

2.702
0.084
8.1

0.3

WBT

47
47
0.97

SBLn1
7%
83%
10%
Stop
100

83

WBR

OD WN ®D ®D

SBL

12/28/2023

SBT __SBR
eb

83 10

83 10

0.97 ~—-:0.97

3 3

86 10

{ 0

Synchro 11 Report

Page 3


--- page 250 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary

12: South Ellsworth Ave & 2nd Ave 12/28/2023
Asryerrt Kx ters 4

Movement EBL EBT  EBR  WBL WBI WBR NBL NBT NBR SBL SBI __ SBR
Lane Configurations bh rey rey rary

Traffic Volume (veh/h) 18 84 24 20 133 50 15 90 13 9 91 46
Future Volume (veh/h) 78 84 24 20 133 50 15 90 13 9 91 46
Initial Q (Qb), veh 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT) 0.97 0.90 0.94 0.92 0.98 0.93 0.97 0.95
Parking Bus, Adj 1.00 100 088 100 100 088 100 100 088 100 1.00 0.88
Work Zone On Approach No No No No

Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/In 1961 1961 1961 1885 1885 1885 1885 1885 1885 1961 1961 1961
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h 90 97 28 23 153 5/7 17 103 15 10 105 53
Peak Hour Factor 0.87 O87 O87 087 087 087 087 087 087 087 087 0.87
Percent Heavy Veh, % 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Cap, veh/h 197 176 42 88 243 84 116 548 14 81 453 214
Arrive On Green 0.23 023 023 023 023 023 0438 0438 0438 043 043 80.43
Sat Flow, veh/h 466 113 185 77 1069 371 102. 1275 172 29 1053 499
Grp Volume(v), veh/h 215 0 0 233 0 0 135 0 0 168 0 0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/In 1424 0 0 1517 0 0 1548 0 0 1581 0 0
Q Serve(g_s), s 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s 1.2 0.0 0.0 76 0.0 0.0 2.9 0.0 0.0 3.8 0.0 0.0
Prop In Lane 0.42 0.13 0.10 0.24 0.13 0.11 0.06 0.32
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 415 0 0 416 0 0 738 0 0 748 0 0
VIC Ratio(X) 0.52 0.00 0.00 056 0.00 000 018 #000 000 022 0.00 # 0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h 547 0 0 564 0 0 738 0 0 748 0 0
HCM Platoon Ratio 1.00 100 1.00 1.00 100 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Upstream Filter(l) 100 000 000 100 000 000 100 000 000 100 0.00 £0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 19.4 0.0 0.0 19.7 0.0 0.0 9.9 0.0 0.0 10.2 0.0 0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.7 0.0 0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0

pile BackOfQ(50%),veh/In 24 0.0 0.0 2.6 0.0 0.0 1.0 0.0 0.0 1.3 0.0 0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh

LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh 19.8 0.0 0.0 20.1 0.0 0.0 10.5 0.0 0.0 10.9 0.0 0.0
LnGrp LOS B A A C A A B A A B A A
Approach Vol, veh/h 215 233 135 168
Approach Delay, s/veh 19.8 20.1 10.5 10.9
Approach LOS B C B B

Timer - Assigned Phs 2 4 6 8

Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 33.7 22.3 33.7 22.3

Change Period (Y+Rc), s *9.6 *9.6 *96 *96

Max Green Setting (Gmax), s *18 *18 *18 *18

Max Q Clear Time (g_ct+l1), s 4.9 9.2 5.8 9.6

Green Ext Time (p_c), s 0.4 0.6 0.5 0.6

Intersection Summary

HCM 6th Ctrl Delay 16.2

HCM 6th LOS B

Notes

* HCM 6th computational engine requires equal clearance times for the phases crossing the barrier.

Opening Year PP AM Synchro 11 Report
Fehr & Peers Page 4


--- page 251 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

13: South Claremont St & East 2nd Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Opening Year PP AM
Fehr & Peers

NBLn‘1
20%
73%

7%
Stop
138

EBLn1
21%
58%
22%
Stop

102

2.888
0.145
8.7

0.5

WBLn1
3%
19%
18%
Stop
234
7

184
43
246

1
0.318
4.641
Yes
174
2.692
0.319
9.9

A

1.4

SBLn1
22%
10%

8%
Stop
123
27

86

10
129

1
0.178
4.952
Yes
720
3.018
0.179
9.1

A

0.6

SBL

27

0.95

28

SB
NB

WB

EB

9.1

12/28/2023

SBT __SBR
eb

86 10

86 10

0.95 0.95

2 2

91 11

{ 0

Synchro 11 Report

Page 5


--- page 252 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

7: North B St/South B Street & Baldwin Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Opening Year PP PM
Fehr & Peers

8.3
A

EBL _EBR
Lid

87 74

87 74

0.93 0.93

0 0

94 80

1 0
EB
0
SB
1
NB
1
8.5
A

NBLn‘1

36%

64%

0%

Stop

102

37

65

0

110

1

0.138

4.525

Yes

794

2.543

0.139

8.3

A

0.5

EBLn1
54%
0%
46%
Stop
161

NBT

65
65
0.93

70

SBLn1
0%
50%
50%
Stop
143

0

71

72
154

1
0.176
4.116
Yes
873
2.132
0.176
8

A

0.6

SBT

“1
71
0.93

>onrWo

SBR

72

0.93

ai

12/28/2023

Synchro 11 Report

Page 1


--- page 253 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary

8: 1st Ave & North B St 12/28/2023
A ~ # ®A NS

Movement EBL EBT WBI WBR_ SBL__ SBR

Lane Configurations Fi b yf

Traffic Volume (veh/h) 24 99 99 78 124 21

Future Volume (veh/h) 24 99 99 78 124 21

Initial Q (Qb), veh 0 0 0 0 0 0

Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT) 0.98 0.94 1.00 0.63

Parking Bus, Adj 100 100 100 100 100 1.00

Work Zone On Approach No No No

Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/In 1870 1870 1870 1870 1870 1870

Adj Flow Rate, veh/h 25 103 103 81 129 22

Peak Hour Factor 0.96 096 096 096 096 0.96

Percent Heavy Veh, % 2 2 2 2 2 2

Cap, veh/h 194 758 484 380 259 44

Arrive On Green 0.51 0.51 0.51 0.51 0.22 0.22

Sat Flow, veh/h 249 1473 941 740-1153 197

Grp Volume(v), veh/h 128 0 0 184 152 0

Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/In 1722 0 0 1680 1359 0

Q Serve(g_s), s 0.0 0.0 0.0 3.9 6.4 0.0

Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s 2.3 0.0 0.0 3.9 6.4 0.0

Prop In Lane 0.20 0.44 0.85 0.14

Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 952 0 0 864 305 0

VIC Ratio(X) 0.13 0.00 0.00 0.21 0.50 0.00

Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h 952 0 0 864 408 0

HCM Platoon Ratio 100 100 1.00 100 1.00 1.00

Upstream Filter(l) 100 000 000 100 1.00 0.00

Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 8.2 0.0 0.0 86 22.0 0.0

Incr Delay (d2), s/veh 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.6 0.5 0.0

Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0

pile BackOfQ(50%),veh/In 0.9 0.0 0.0 1.4 2.0 0.0

Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh

LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh 8.5 0.0 0.0 9.2 22.5 0.0

LnGrp LOS A A A A C A

Approach Vol, veh/h 128 184 152

Approach Delay, s/veh 8.5 9.2 22.5

Approach LOS A A C

Timer - Assigned Phs 2 6 8

Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 41.9 41.9 23.1

Change Period (Y+Rc), s 8.5 8.5 8.5

Max Green Setting (Gmax), s 28.5 28.5 19.5

Max Q Clear Time (g_ct+l1), s 4.3 5.9 8.4

Green Ext Time (p_c), s 0.4 0.7 0.2

Intersection Summary

HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
HCM 6th LOS

Opening Year PP PM
Fehr & Peers

13.4
B

Synchro 11 Report
Page 2


--- page 254 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

11: South Claremont St & 1st Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Opening Year PP PM
Fehr & Peers

9.8
A

EBL EBT

rary

8 151

8 151

0.87 ~—-:0.87

2 2

9 174

0 1
EB
WB
1
SB
1
NB
1
10.3
B

NBLn‘1

41%

45%

14%

Stop

159

65

71

23

183

1

0.257

5.072

Yes

700

3.158

0.261

9.9

A

{

EBLn1
3%
65%
31%
Stop
231

8

151
72
266

1
0.347
4.708
Yes
757
2.781
0.351
10.3
B

1.6

WBLn‘1
13%
712%
15%
Stop

129

3.051
0.207
9.3

0.8

SBL

15

0.87

17

SB
NB

WB

EB

9.2

12/28/2023

SBT __SBR
eb

70 21

70 21

0.87 0.87

2 2

80 24

{ 0

Synchro 11 Report

Page 3


--- page 255 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary

12: South Ellsworth Ave & 2nd Ave 12/28/2023
Awerynre Ke ters| 4

Movement EBL EBT  EBR  WBL WBI WBR NBL NBT NBR SBL SBI __ SBR
Lane Configurations bh rey rey rary

Traffic Volume (veh/h) 61 140 80 25 92 45 20 121 40 19 168 76
Future Volume (veh/h) 61 140 80 25 92 45 20 121 40 19 168 76
Initial Q (Qb), veh 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT) 0.88 0.79 0.97 0.79 0.97 0.89 0.95 0.91
Parking Bus, Adj 1.00 100 088 100 100 088 100 100 088 100 1.00 0.88
Work Zone On Approach No No No No

Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/In 1945 1945 1945 1870 1870 1870 1870 1870 1870 1945 1945 1945
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h 73 169 96 30 111 54 24 146 48 23 202 92
Peak Hour Factor 0.83 083 083 #083 083 083 083 #083 083 083 083 0.83
Percent Heavy Veh, % 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2
Cap, veh/h 128 215 110 96 250 108 97 460 140 80 452 194
Arrive On Green 0.27 027 027 027 027 6027 «604306«604306(0438) C0438) 0480.43
Sat Flow, veh/h 225 783 400 121 910 395 84 1058 322 50 1040 446
Grp Volume(v), veh/h 338 0 0 195 0 0 218 0 0 317 0 0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/In 1408 0 0 1426 0 0 1464 0 0 1536 0 0
Q Serve(g_s), s 7.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s 14.8 0.0 0.0 75 0.0 0.0 6.2 0.0 0.0 9.5 0.0 0.0
Prop In Lane 0.22 0.28 0.15 0.28 ~=0.11 0.22 0.07 0.29
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 453 0 0 454 0 0 697 0 0 7126 0 0
VIC Ratio(X) 0.75 0.00 0.00 043 0.00 0.00 0.31 0.00 0.00 044 0.00 0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h 657 0 0 659 0 0 697 0 0 726 0 0
HCM Platoon Ratio 1.00 100 1.00 1.00 100 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Upstream Filter(l) 100 000 000 100 000 000 100 000 000 098 0.00 0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 22.5 0.0 0.0 20.1 0.0 0.0 12.3 0.0 0.0 13.2 0.0 0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh 1.2 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.0 1.2 0.0 0.0 1.9 0.0 0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0

pile BackOfQ(50%),veh/In 48 0.0 0.0 24 0.0 0.0 2.2 0.0 0.0 3.4 0.0 0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh

LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh 23.7 0.0 0.0 20.3 0.0 0.0 13.5 0.0 0.0 15.1 0.0 0.0
LnGrp LOS C A A C A A B A A B A A
Approach Vol, veh/h 338 195 218 317
Approach Delay, s/veh 23.7 20.3 13.5 15.1
Approach LOS C C B B

Timer - Assigned Phs 2 4 6 8

Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 38.3 27.7 38.3 20.1

Change Period (Y+Rc), s *9.6 *9.6 *96 *96

Max Green Setting (Gmax), s *18 *28 *18 *28

Max Q Clear Time (g_c+l1), s 8.2 16.8 11.5 9.5

Green Ext Time (p_c), s 0.6 1.3 0.8 0.8

Intersection Summary

HCM 6th Ctrl Delay 18.5

HCM 6th LOS B

Notes

* HCM 6th computational engine requires equal clearance times for the phases crossing the barrier.

Opening Year PP PM Synchro 11 Report
Fehr & Peers Page 4


--- page 256 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

13: South Claremont St & East 2nd Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Opening Year PP PM
Fehr & Peers

NBLn‘1
16%
70%
13%
Stop

134

EBLn1
9%
59%
32%
Stop
207

WBLn1
7%
68%
25%
Stop
182
13
123
46
198

1
0.267
4.867
Yes
730
2.953
0.271
9.7

A

1.1

SBLn1
26%
64%
10%
Stop

159
41
102
16
173

1
0.245
5.11
Yes
695
3.204
0.249
9.9

A

1

SBL

41

0.92

45

SB
NB

WB

EB

9.9

12/28/2023
SBT __SBR

eb
102 16
102 16
0.92 0.92
1 |
111 17
{ 0

Synchro 11 Report

Page 5


--- page 257 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

7: North B St/South B Street & Baldwin Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Cumulative AM
Fehr & Peers

79
A

EBL _EBR
Lid

60 50

60 50

0.82 0.82

4 4

73 61

1 0
EB
0
SB
1
NB
1
8
A

NBLn‘1

57%

43%

0%

Stop

70

40

30

0

85

1

0.104

4.39

Yes

806

2.476

0.105

8

A

0.3

EBLn1
55%
0%
45%
Stop
110

2.199
0.156

0.5

NBT

30
30
0.82

37

SBLn1
0%
50%
50%
Stop
76

SBT

38
38
0.82

SBR

38

0.82

46

12/28/2023

Synchro 11 Report

Page 1


--- page 258 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary

8: 1st Ave & North B St 12/28/2023
A ~ # ®A NS

Movement EBL EBT WBI WBR_ SBL__ SBR

Lane Configurations Fi b yf

Traffic Volume (veh/h) 10 68 120 50 68 30

Future Volume (veh/h) 10 68 120 50 68 30

Initial Q (Qb), veh 0 0 0 0 0 0

Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT) 0.98 0.97 1.00 0.79

Parking Bus, Adj 100 100 100 100 100 1.00

Work Zone On Approach No No No

Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/In 1826 1826 1826 1826 1826 1826

Adj Flow Rate, veh/h 11 74 130 54 74 33

Peak Hour Factor 0.92 092 092 092 092 0.92

Percent Heavy Veh, % 5 5 5 5 5 5

Cap, veh/h 133 767 5/1 237 197 88

Arrive On Green 0.47 0.47 0.47 0.47 0.22 0.22

Sat Flow, veh/h 124 1628 1211 503 899 401

Grp Volume(v), veh/h 85 0 0 184 108 0

Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/In 1752 0 0 1714 = 1313 0

Q Serve(g_s), s 0.0 0.0 0.0 3.5 3.8 0.0

Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s 1.4 0.0 0.0 3.5 3.8 0.0

Prop In Lane 0.13 0.29 0.69 0.31

Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 900 0 0 808 288 0

VIC Ratio(X) 0.09 0.00 0.00 023 037 0.00

Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h 900 0 0 808 394 0

HCM Platoon Ratio 100 100 1.00 100 1.00 1.00

Upstream Filter(l) 100 000 000 100 1.00 0.00

Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 8.1 0.0 0.0 86 18.3 0.0

Incr Delay (d2), s/veh 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.7 0.3 0.0

Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0

pile BackOfQ(50%),veh/In 0.5 0.0 0.0 1.3 1.1 0.0

Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh

LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh 8.3 0.0 0.0 93 186 0.0

LnGrp LOS A A A A B A

Approach Vol, veh/h 85 184 108

Approach Delay, s/veh 8.3 9.3 18.6

Approach LOS A A B

Timer - Assigned Phs 2 6 8

Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 34.4 34.4 20.6

Change Period (Y+Rc), s 8.5 8.5 8.5

Max Green Setting (Gmax), s 21.5 21.5 16.5

Max Q Clear Time (g_ct+l1), s 3.4 5.5 5.8

Green Ext Time (p_c), s 0.2 0.6 0.1

Intersection Summary

HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
HCM 6th LOS

Cumulative AM
Fehr & Peers

11.7
B

Synchro 11 Report
Page 2


--- page 259 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

11: South Claremont St & 1st Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Cumulative AM
Fehr & Peers

NBLn‘1
38%
58%

4%
Stop
225
85
130
10
232

1
0.303
4.701
Yes
763
2.745
0.304
9.8

A

1.3

EBLn1
7%
65%
28%
Stop
136

2.838
0.188
8.9

0.7

WBLn1
13%
73%
13%
Stop

75

10

55

10

77

1
0.107
4.969
Yes
718
3.026
0.107
8.6

A

0.4

SBLn1
7%
86%
7%
Stop
139
10
119
10
143

1
0.188
4.729
Yes
755

NBL

85

0.97

88

NB
SB

EB

WB

9.8

NBT
130
130

0.97

134

SBL

10

0.97

10

SB
NB

WB

EB

8.9

12/28/2023
SBT __SBR

eb
119 10
119 10
0.97 ~—-:0.97
3 3
123 10
{ 0

Synchro 11 Report

Page 3


--- page 260 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary

12: South Ellsworth Ave & 2nd Ave 12/28/2023
Asryerrt Kx ters 4

Movement EBL EBT  EBR  WBL WBI WBR NBL NBT NBR SBL SBI __ SBR
Lane Configurations bh rey rey rary

Traffic Volume (veh/h) 106 115 40 30 189 10 20 129 19 10 130 69
Future Volume (veh/h) 106 115 40 30 189 70 20 129 19 10 130 69
Initial Q (Qb), veh 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT) 0.98 0.92 0.96 0.93 0.98 0.93 0.97 0.95
Parking Bus, Adj 1.00 100 088 100 100 088 100 100 088 100 1.00 0.88
Work Zone On Approach No No No No

Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/In 1961 1961 1961 1885 1885 1885 1885 1885 1885 1961 1961 1961
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h 122 132 46 34 217 80 23 148 22 11 149 79
Peak Hour Factor 0.87 O87 O87 087 087 087 087 087 087 087 087 0.87
Percent Heavy Veh, % 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Cap, veh/h 204 181 53 96 301 104 104 486 67 16 390 197
Arrive On Green 0.28 0.28 028 0.28 #028 O28 038 038 038 038 0.38 0.38
Sat Flow, veh/h 409 648 191 89 1080 373 86 1284 176 24 1029 520
Grp Volume(v), veh/h 300 0 0 331 0 0 193 0 0 239 0 0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/In 1249 0 0 1542 0 0 1546 0 0 1574 0 0
Q Serve(g_s), s 1.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s 12.8 0.0 0.0 10.9 0.0 0.0 48 0.0 0.0 6.2 0.0 0.0
Prop In Lane 0.41 0.15 0.10 0.24 0.12 0.11 0.05 0.33
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 438 0 0 501 0 0 657 0 0 663 0 0
VIC Ratio(X) 0.68 0.00 0.00 066 0.00 0.00 029 0.00 000 036 0.00 # 0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h 502 0 0 574 0 0 657 0 0 663 0 0
HCM Platoon Ratio 1.00 100 1.00 1.00 100 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Upstream Filter(l) 100 000 000 100 000 000 100 000 000 100 0.00 £0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 18.9 0.0 0.0 18.5 0.0 0.0 12.3 0.0 0.0 12.7 0.0 0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh 2.3 0.0 0.0 1.5 0.0 0.0 1.1 0.0 0.0 1.5 0.0 0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0

pile BackOfQ(50%),veh/In 3.6 0.0 0.0 3.8 0.0 0.0 17 0.0 0.0 2.3 0.0 0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh

LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh 21.2 0.0 0.0 20.1 0.0 0.0 13.4 0.0 0.0 143 0.0 0.0
LnGrp LOS C A A C A A B A A B A A
Approach Vol, veh/h 300 331 193 239
Approach Delay, s/veh 21.2 20.1 13.4 14.3
Approach LOS C C B B

Timer - Assigned Phs 2 4 6 8

Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 30.8 25.2 30.8 25.2

Change Period (Y+Rc), s *9.6 *9.6 *96 *96

Max Green Setting (Gmax), s *18 *18 *18 *18

Max Q Clear Time (g_ct+l1), s 6.8 14.8 8.2 12.9

Green Ext Time (p_c), s 0.5 0.5 0.7 0.7

Intersection Summary

HCM 6th Ctrl Delay 17.9

HCM 6th LOS B

Notes

* HCM 6th computational engine requires equal clearance times for the phases crossing the barrier.

Cumulative AM Synchro 11 Report
Fehr & Peers Page 4


--- page 261 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

13: South Claremont St & East 2nd Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Cumulative AM
Fehr & Peers

11.3
B

EBL EBT

rary

30 90

30 90

0.95 0.95

2 2

32 95

0 1
EB
WB
1
SB
1
NB
1
10.1
B

NBLn‘1

15%

19%

6%

Stop

171

26

135

10

180

1

0.277

5.538

Yes

648

3.578

0.278

10.7

B

1.1

EBLn1
20%
60%
20%
Stop

150

WBL
10
0.95

11

WB
EB

NB
SB

12.6

WBLn‘1
3%
78%
19%
Stop
317

WBT

247
247
0.95

260

SBLn1
24%
1%

5%
Stop
167
40
118

9

176

1
0.272
5.565
Yes
645
3.605
0.273
10.7
B

1.1

10.7

SBL

40

0.95

42

SB
NB

WB

EB

10.7

12/28/2023
SBT __SBR

eb
118 9
118 9
0.95 0.95
2 2
124 9
{ 0

Synchro 11 Report

Page 5


--- page 262 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

7: North B St/South B Street & Baldwin Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Cumulative PM
Fehr & Peers

NBLn‘1
33%
67%

0%
Stop
150
50
100

0

161

1
0.212
4.722
Yes
760
2.759
0.212
9

A

0.8

EBLn1
51%
0%
49%
Stop
226
116

0

110
243

1
0.301
4.462
Yes
804
2.496
0.302
9.4

A

1.3

NBT

100
100
0.93

108

SBLn1
0%
50%
50%
Stop
158

0

79

719
170

1
0.206
4.36
Yes
822
2.395
0.207
8.5

A

0.8

SBT

19
79
0.93

SBR

19

0.93

85

12/28/2023

Synchro 11 Report
Page 1


--- page 263 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary

8: 1st Ave & North B St 12/28/2023
A ~ # ®A NS

Movement EBL EBT WBI WBR_ SBL__ SBR

Lane Configurations Fi b yf

Traffic Volume (veh/h) 40 139 138 110 159 30

Future Volume (veh/h) 40 139 138 110 159 30

Initial Q (Qb), veh 0 0 0 0 0 0

Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT) 0.98 0.94 1.00 0.63

Parking Bus, Adj 100 100 100 100 100 1.00

Work Zone On Approach No No No

Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/In 1870 1870 1870 1870 1870 1870

Adj Flow Rate, veh/h 42 145 144 115 166 31

Peak Hour Factor 0.96 096 096 096 096 0.96

Percent Heavy Veh, % 2 2 2 2 2 2

Cap, veh/h 215 704 476 380 258 48

Arrive On Green 0.51 0.51 0.51 0.51 0.23 §©0.23

Sat Flow, veh/h 289 1380 933 745 1133 212

Grp Volume(v), veh/h 187 0 0 259 198 0

Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/In 1669 0 0 1679 1351 0

Q Serve(g_s), s 0.0 0.0 0.0 5.8 8.6 0.0

Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s 315) 0.0 0.0 5.8 8.6 0.0

Prop In Lane 0.22 0.44 0.84 0.16

Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 919 0 0 857 308 0

VIC Ratio(X) 0.20 0.00 0.00 030 064 0.00

Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h 919 0 0 857 405 0

HCM Platoon Ratio 1.00 100 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00

Upstream Filter(l) 100 000 000 100 1.00 0.00

Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 8.7 0.0 0.0 9.2 227 0.0

Incr Delay (d2), s/veh 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.9 0.8 0.0

Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0

pile BackOfQ(50%),veh/In 1.4 0.0 0.0 2.1 2.1 0.0

Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh

LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh 9.2 0.0 0.0 10.1 23.5 0.0

LnGrp LOS A A A B C A

Approach Vol, veh/h 187 259 198

Approach Delay, s/veh 9.2 10.1 23.5

Approach LOS A B C

Timer - Assigned Phs 2 6 8

Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 41.7 41.7 23.3

Change Period (Y+Rc), s 8.5 8.5 8.5

Max Green Setting (Gmax), s 28.5 28.5 19.5

Max Q Clear Time (g_ct+l1), s 5.5 78 10.6

Green Ext Time (p_c), s 0.7 1.1 0.2

Intersection Summary

HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
HCM 6th LOS

Cumulative PM
Fehr & Peers

14.0
B

Synchro 11 Report
Page 2


--- page 264 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

11: South Claremont St & 1st Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Cumulative PM
Fehr & Peers

13.8

EBT

201
201
0.87

231

NBLn‘1
40%
46%
14%
Stop

218

EBR

80

0.87

92

11.7

WBLn1
16%
68%
16%
Stop

188
30
128
30
216

1
0.341
5.674
Yes
629
3.747
0.343
11.7
B

1.5

WBT

128
128
0.87

147

610
3.916
0.282

11.2
B
1.1

WBR

30

0.87

34

NBL

88

0.87

101

NB
SB

EB

WB

12.7

NBT
100
100

0.87

115

NBR

30

0.87

34
0

SBL

20

0.87

23

SB
NB

WB

EB

11.2

12/28/2023
SBT __SBR

eb
100 30
100 30
0.87 0.87
2 2
115 34
{ 0

Synchro 11 Report

Page 3


--- page 265 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary

12: South Ellsworth Ave & 2nd Ave 12/28/2023
Awerynre Ke ters| 4

Movement EBL EBT  EBR  WBL WBI WBR NBL NBT NBR SBL SBI __ SBR
Lane Configurations bh rey rey rary

Traffic Volume (veh/h) 88 198 120 39 125 59 30 180 60 30 249 107
Future Volume (veh/h) 88 198 120 39 125 59 30 180 60 30 249 107
Initial Q (Qb), veh 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT) 0.94 0.84 1.00 0.84 = 1.00 0.86 0.96 0.88
Parking Bus, Adj 1.00 100 088 100 100 088 100 100 088 100 1.00 0.88
Work Zone On Approach No No No No

Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/In 1945 1945 1945 1870 1870 1870 1870 1870 1870 1945 1945 1945
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h 106 239 145 47 151 71 36 217 72 36 300 129
Peak Hour Factor 0.83 083 083 #083 083 083 083 #083 083 083 083 0.83
Percent Heavy Veh, % 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2
Cap, veh/h 158 282 157 118 315 133 90 348 107 81 349 143
Arrive On Green 0.37 037 037 037 037 037) 6033) 0.383083) 0.330.383) 0.33
Sat Flow, veh/h 244 754 419 145 843 354 89 1038 321 68 1043 426
Grp Volume(v), veh/h 490 0 0 269 0 0 325 0 0 465 0 0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/In 1417 0 0 1342 0 0 1448 0 0 1537 0 0
Q Serve(g_s), s 12.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 6.6 0.0 0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s 21.5 0.0 0.0 9.3 0.0 0.0 12.3 0.0 0.0 18.9 0.0 0.0
Prop In Lane 0.22 0.30 0.17 0.26 83=©0.11 0.22 0.08 0.28
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 597 0 0 566 0 0 545 0 0 573 0 0
VIC Ratio(X) 0.82 0.00 0.00 048 0.00 0.00 060 0.00 0.00 £0.81 0.00 0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h 672 0 0 639 0 0 545 0 0 573 0 0
HCM Platoon Ratio 1.00 100 1.00 1.00 100 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Upstream Filter(l) 100 000 000 100 000 000 100 000 000 098 0.00 0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 19.3 0.0 0.0 15.8 0.0 0.0 18.6 0.0 0.0 208 0.0 0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh 6.4 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.0 47 0.0 0.0 11.6 0.0 0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0

pile BackOfQ(50%),veh/In 76 0.0 0.0 2.9 0.0 0.0 47 0.0 0.0 8.1 0.0 0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh

LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh 25.7 0.0 0.0 16.0 0.0 0.0 23.4 0.0 0.0 32.4 0.0 0.0
LnGrp LOS C A A B A A C A A C A A
Approach Vol, veh/h 490 269 325 465
Approach Delay, s/veh 25.7 16.0 23.4 32.4
Approach LOS C B C C

Timer - Assigned Phs 2 4 6 8

Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 31.7 34.3 31.7 34.3

Change Period (Y+Rc), s *9.6 *9.6 *96 *96

Max Green Setting (Gmax), s *18 *28 *18 *28

Max Q Clear Time (g_ct+l1), s 14.3 23.5 20.9 11.3

Green Ext Time (p_c), s 0.5 1.2 0.0 1.1

Intersection Summary

HCM 6th Ctrl Delay 25.6

HCM 6th LOS Cc

Notes

* HCM 6th computational engine requires equal clearance times for the phases crossing the barrier.

Cumulative PM Synchro 11 Report
Fehr & Peers Page 4


--- page 266 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

13: South Claremont St & East 2nd Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Cumulative PM
Fehr & Peers

13.6
B

EBL EBT

rary

30 170

30 170

0.92 0.92

1 1

33 185

0 1
EB
WB
1
SB
1
NB
1
14.3
B

NBLn‘1

14%

10%

15%

Stop

196

28

138

30

213

1

0.362

6.12

Yes

588

4.163

0.362

12.6

B

1.6

13.8

WBLn1
7%
66%
26%
Stop
268
20
178
70
291

1
0.467
5.771
Yes
626
3.797
0.465
13.8
B

2.5

WBT
178
178

0.92

193

4.187

12.6

NBT
138
138

0.92

150

SBL

60

0.92

65

SB
NB

WB

EB

13.1

12/28/2023
SBT __SBR

eb
130 20
130 20
0.92 0.92
1 |
141 22
{ 0

Synchro 11 Report

Page 5


--- page 267 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

7: North B St/South B Street & Baldwin Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Cumulative PP AM
Fehr & Peers

8
A

EBL _EBR
Lid

70 50

70 50

0.82 0.82

4 4

85 61

1 0
EB
0
SB
1
NB
1
8.1

NBLn‘1

57%

43%

0%

Stop

70

40

30

0

85

1

0.107

4.517

Yes

796

2.525

0.107

8.1

A

0.4

EBLn1
58%
0%
42%
Stop
120
70

0

50
146

1
0.173
4.248
Yes
849
2.252
0.172
8.1

A

0.6

NBT

30
30
0.82

37

SBLn1
0%
50%
50%
Stop
80

SBT

40
40
0.82

SBR

40

0.82

49

12/28/2023

Synchro 11 Report

Page 1


--- page 268 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary

8: 1st Ave & North B St 12/28/2023
A ~ # ®A NS

Movement EBL EBT WBI WBR_ SBL__ SBR

Lane Configurations Fi b yf

Traffic Volume (veh/h) 10 70 120 50 70 30

Future Volume (veh/h) 10 70 120 50 70 30

Initial Q (Qb), veh 0 0 0 0 0 0

Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT) 0.98 0.97 1.00 0.80

Parking Bus, Adj 100 100 100 100 100 1.00

Work Zone On Approach No No No

Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/In 1826 1826 1826 1826 1826 1826

Adj Flow Rate, veh/h 11 76 130 54 76 33

Peak Hour Factor 0.92 092 092 092 092 0.92

Percent Heavy Veh, % 5 5 5 5 5 5

Cap, veh/h 130 770 570 237 200 87

Arrive On Green 0.47 0.47 0.47 0.47 0.22 0.22

Sat Flow, veh/h 120 1685 1211 503 909 395

Grp Volume(v), veh/h 87 0 0 184 110 0

Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/In 1755 0 0 1714 1316 0

Q Serve(g_s), s 0.0 0.0 0.0 3.5 3.9 0.0

Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s 1.5 0.0 0.0 3.5 3.9 0.0

Prop In Lane 0.13 0.29 0.69 0.30

Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 900 0 0 807 289 0

VIC Ratio(X) 0.10 0.00 0.00 023 0.38 0.00

Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h 900 0 0 807 395 0

HCM Platoon Ratio 100 100 1.00 100 1.00 1.00

Upstream Filter(l) 100 000 000 100 1.00 0.00

Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 8.1 0.0 0.0 86 18.3 0.0

Incr Delay (d2), s/veh 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.7 0.3 0.0

Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0

pile BackOfQ(50%),veh/In 0.5 0.0 0.0 1.3 1.1 0.0

Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh

LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh 8.3 0.0 0.0 93 186 0.0

LnGrp LOS A A A A B A

Approach Vol, veh/h 87 184 110

Approach Delay, s/veh 8.3 9.3 18.6

Approach LOS A A B

Timer - Assigned Phs 2 6 8

Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 34.4 34.4 20.6

Change Period (Y+Rc), s 8.5 8.5 8.5

Max Green Setting (Gmax), s 21.5 21.5 16.5

Max Q Clear Time (g_ct+l1), s 3.5 5.5 5.9

Green Ext Time (p_c), s 0.2 0.6 0.1

Intersection Summary

HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
HCM 6th LOS

Cumulative PP AM
Fehr & Peers

11.7
B

Synchro 11 Report
Page 2


--- page 269 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

11: South Claremont St & 1st Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Cumulative PP AM
Fehr & Peers

EBT

NBLn‘1
39%
57%

4%
Stop
230

EBLn1
7%
64%
29%
Stop
140

2.865
0.194

A
0.7

WBLn1
12%
15%
12%

0.115

2.819
0.192

A

NBL

90

0.97

93

NB
SB

EB

WB

9.9

NBT
130
130

0.97

134

NBR

10

0.97

10
0

SBL

10

0.97

10

SB
NB

WB

EB

12/28/2023
SBT __SBR

eb
120 10
120 10
0.97 ~—-:0.97
3 3
124 10
{ 0

Synchro 11 Report

Page 3


--- page 270 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary

12: South Ellsworth Ave & 2nd Ave 12/28/2023
Asryerrt Kx ters 4

Movement EBL EBT  EBR  WBL WBI WBR NBL NBT NBR SBL SBI __ SBR
Lane Configurations bh rey rey rary

Traffic Volume (veh/h) 110 120 40 30 190 10 20 130 20 10 130 70
Future Volume (veh/h) 110 120 40 30 190 70 20 130 20 10 130 70
Initial Q (Qb), veh 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT) 0.98 0.92 0.97 0.93 0.98 0.93 0.97 0.95
Parking Bus, Adj 1.00 100 088 100 100 088 100 100 088 100 1.00 0.88
Work Zone On Approach No No No No

Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/In 1961 1961 1961 1885 1885 1885 1885 1885 1885 1961 1961 1961
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h 126 138 46 34 218 80 23 149 23 11 149 80
Peak Hour Factor 0.87 O87 O87 087 087 087 087 087 087 087 087 0.87
Percent Heavy Veh, % 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Cap, veh/h 207 184 52 96 306 105 103 478 68 16 383 196
Arrive On Green 0.28 0.28 028 O28 O28 O28 O37 £4037 037 037 037 ~8§860.37
Sat Flow, veh/h 411 651 185 89 1081 371 84 1279 182 241024 524
Grp Volume(v), veh/h 310 0 0 332 0 0 195 0 0 240 0 0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/In 1247 0 0 1541 0 0 1545 0 0 1573 0 0
Q Serve(g_s), s 24 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s 13.3 0.0 0.0 10.9 0.0 0.0 4.9 0.0 0.0 6.3 0.0 0.0
Prop In Lane 0.41 0.15 0.10 0.24 0.12 0.12 0.05 0.33
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 444 0 0 508 0 0 649 0 0 655 0 0
VIC Ratio(X) 0.70 0.00 0.00 065 0.00 000 030 000 000 037 0.00 # 0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h 501 0 0 574 0 0 649 0 0 655 0 0
HCM Platoon Ratio 1.00 100 1.00 1.00 100 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Upstream Filter(l) 100 000 000 100 000 000 100 000 000 100 0.00 £0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 18.9 0.0 0.0 18.3 0.0 0.0 12.5 0.0 0.0 12.9 0.0 0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh 2.1 0.0 0.0 1.5 0.0 0.0 1.2 0.0 0.0 1.6 0.0 0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0

pile BackOfQ(50%),veh/In 3.8 0.0 0.0 3.8 0.0 0.0 1.8 0.0 0.0 2.3 0.0 0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh

LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh 21.6 0.0 0.0 19.8 0.0 0.0 13.7 0.0 0.0 14.5 0.0 0.0
LnGrp LOS C A A B A A B A A B A A
Approach Vol, veh/h 310 332 195 240
Approach Delay, s/veh 21.6 19.8 13.7 14.5
Approach LOS C B B B

Timer - Assigned Phs 2 4 6 8

Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 30.5 25.5 30.5 25.5

Change Period (Y+Rc), s *9.6 *9.6 *96 *96

Max Green Setting (Gmax), s *18 *18 *18 *18

Max Q Clear Time (g_ct+l1), s 6.9 15.3 8.3 12.9

Green Ext Time (p_c), s 0.6 0.4 0.7 0.7

Intersection Summary

HCM 6th Ctrl Delay 18.0

HCM 6th LOS B

Notes

* HCM 6th computational engine requires equal clearance times for the phases crossing the barrier.

Cumulative PP AM Synchro 11 Report
Fehr & Peers Page 4


--- page 271 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

13: South Claremont St & East 2nd Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Cumulative PP AM
Fehr & Peers

11.5
B

EBL EBT

rary

30 90

30 90

0.95 0.95

2 2

32 95

0 1
EB
WB
1
SB
1
NB
1
10.2
B

NBLn‘1

17%

18%

6%

Stop

180

30

140

10

189

1

0.293

5.57

Yes

644

3.612

0.293

10.9

B

1.2

EBLn1
20%
60%
20%
Stop

150

12.8

WBLn‘1
3%
78%
19%
Stop
320

10

SBLn1
24%
1%

6%
Stop
170
40
120
10
179

1
0.278
5.6
Yes
641
3.643
0.279
10.8
B

1.1

10.9

12/28/2023
SBL___SBIT__SBR
eb
40 120 10
40 120 10
0.95 0.95 0.95
2 2 2
42 126 11
0 { 0
SB
NB
i
WB
i
EB
1
10.8
B

Synchro 11 Report

Page 5


--- page 272 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

7: North B St/South B Street & Baldwin Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Cumulative PP PM
Fehr & Peers

EBL
120
120
0.93

129

EB

EBR

110
110
0.93

118

NBLn‘1
33%
67%

0%
Stop
150
50
100

0

161

1
0.214
4.766
Yes
752
2.807
0.214
9.1

A

0.8

EBLn1
52%
0%
48%
Stop
230
120

0

110
247

1
0.311
4.521
Yes
794
2.559
0.311
9.6

A

1.3

NBT

100
100
0.93

108

SBLn1
0%
50%
50%
Stop
180

0

90

90
194

1
0.235
4.377
Yes
819
2.417
0.237
8.8

A

0.9

SBT
b
90
90

0.93

SBR

90

0.93

97

12/28/2023

Synchro 11 Report
Page 1


--- page 273 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary

8: 1st Ave & North B St 12/28/2023
A ~ # ®A NS

Movement EBL EBT WBI WBR_ SBL__ SBR

Lane Configurations Fi b yf

Traffic Volume (veh/h) 40 140 140 110 170 30

Future Volume (veh/h) 40 140 140 110 170 30

Initial Q (Qb), veh 0 0 0 0 0 0

Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT) 0.98 0.94 1.00 0.64

Parking Bus, Adj 100 100 100 100 100 1.00

Work Zone On Approach No No No

Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/In 1870 1870 1870 1870 1870 1870

Adj Flow Rate, veh/h 42 146 146 115 177 31

Peak Hour Factor 0.96 096 096 096 096 0.96

Percent Heavy Veh, % 2 2 2 2 2 2

Cap, veh/h 213 703 478 376 265 46

Arrive On Green 0.51 0.51 0.51 0.51 0.23 §©0.23

Sat Flow, veh/h 286 1383 940 740. 1152 202

Grp Volume(v), veh/h 188 0 0 261 209 0

Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/In 1669 0 0 1680 1360 0

Q Serve(g_s), s 0.0 0.0 0.0 5.9 9.1 0.0

Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s 3.6 0.0 0.0 5.9 9.1 0.0

Prop In Lane 0.22 0.44 0.85 0.15

Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 917 0 0 854 313 0

VIC Ratio(X) 0.21 0.00 0.00 0.31 0.67 0.00

Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h 917 0 0 854 408 0

HCM Platoon Ratio 100 100 1.00 100 1.00 1.00

Upstream Filter(l) 100 000 000 100 1.00 0.00

Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 8.7 0.0 0.0 93 22.8 0.0

Incr Delay (d2), s/veh 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.9 1.2 0.0

Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0

pile BackOfQ(50%),veh/In 1.4 0.0 0.0 2.1 2.9 0.0

Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh

LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh 9.2 0.0 0.0 102 240 0.0

LnGrp LOS A A A B C A

Approach Vol, veh/h 188 261 209

Approach Delay, s/veh 9.2 10.2 24.0

Approach LOS A B C

Timer - Assigned Phs 2 6 8

Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 41.6 41.6 23.4

Change Period (Y+Rc), s 8.5 8.5 8.5

Max Green Setting (Gmax), s 28.5 28.5 19.5

Max Q Clear Time (g_ct+l1), s 5.6 79 11.1

Green Ext Time (p_c), s 0.7 1.1 0.2

Intersection Summary

HCM 6th Ctrl Delay
HCM 6th LOS

Cumulative PP PM
Fehr & Peers

14.3
B

Synchro 11 Report
Page 2


--- page 274 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

11: South Claremont St & 1st Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Cumulative PP PM
Fehr & Peers

13.1
B

EBL EBT

rary

10 210

10 210

0.87 ~—-:0.87

2 2

11 244

0 1
EB
WB
1
SB
1
NB
1
14.6
B

NBLn‘1

41%

45%

14%

Stop

220

90

100

30

253

1

0.412

5.859

Yes

609

3.935

0.415

13

B

2

EBR
90
0.87

103

EBLn1
3%
68%
29%
Stop
310

WBL
30
0.87

34

WB
EB

NB
SB

11.9

WBLn1
16%
68%
16%
Stop

190
30
130
30
218

1
0.348
5.744
Yes
622
3.823
0.35
11.9
B

1.6

WBT
130
130

0.87

149

4.019
0.287
11.4

1.2

WBR

30

0.87

34

NBL

90

0.87

103

NB
SB

EB

WB

13

NBT
100
100

0.87

115

NBR

30

0.87

34
0

SBL

20

0.87

23

SB
NB

WB

EB

11.4

12/28/2023
SBT __SBR

eb
100 30
100 30
0.87 0.87
2 2
115 34
{ 0

Synchro 11 Report

Page 3


--- page 275 ---
HCM 6th Signalized Intersection Summary

12: South Ellsworth Ave & 2nd Ave 12/28/2023
Asryerrt Kx ters 4

Movement EBL EBT  EBR  WBL WBI WBR NBL NBT NBR SBL SBI __ SBR
Lane Configurations bh rey rey rary

Traffic Volume (veh/h) 90 200 120 40 130 60 30 180 60 30 250 110
Future Volume (veh/h) 90 200 120 40 130 60 30 180 60 30 250 110
Initial Q (Qb), veh 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT) 0.94 0.84 1.00 0.84 1.00 0.86 0.96 0.88
Parking Bus, Adj 1.00 100 088 100 100 088 100 100 088 100 1.00 0.88
Work Zone On Approach No No No No

Adj Sat Flow, veh/h/In 1945 1945 1945 1870 1870 1870 1870 1870 1870 1945 1945 1945
Adj Flow Rate, veh/h 108 241 145 48 157 72 36 217 72 36 301 133
Peak Hour Factor 0.83 083 083 #083 083 083 083 #083 083 083 083 0.83
Percent Heavy Veh, % 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2
Cap, veh/h 160 284 157 118 321 132 90 342 106 81 343 144
Arrive On Green 0.38 038 038 038 038 038 033 033 033 033 033 0.33
Sat Flow, veh/h 247 152 415 144 850 349 89 1033 319 67 1035 435
Grp Volume(v), veh/h 494 0 0 277 0 0 325 0 0 470 0 0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/In 1414 0 0 1343 0 0 1444 0 0 1537 0 0
Q Serve(g_s), s 12.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 6.9 0.0 0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s 21.8 0.0 0.0 9.6 0.0 0.0 12.4 0.0 0.0 19.3 0.0 0.0
Prop In Lane 0.22 0.29 0.17 0.26 83=©0.11 0.22 0.08 0.28
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h 600 0 0 571 0 0 538 0 0 568 0 0
VIC Ratio(X) 0.82 0.00 0.00 049 0.00 0.00 060 0.00 000 083 0.00 0.00
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h 671 0 0 640 0 0 538 0 0 568 0 0
HCM Platoon Ratio 1.00 100 1.00 1.00 100 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Upstream Filter(l) 100 000 000 100 000 000 100 000 000 098 0.00 0.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh 19.2 0.0 0.0 15.7 0.0 0.0 18.8 0.0 0.0 «21.1 0.0 0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh 6.6 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.0 5.0 0.0 0.0 12.8 0.0 0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0

pile BackOfQ(50%),veh/In 76 0.0 0.0 3.0 0.0 0.0 47 0.0 0.0 8.5 0.0 0.0
Unsig. Movement Delay, s/veh

LnGrp Delay(d),s/veh 25.8 0.0 0.0 16.0 0.0 0.0 23.8 0.0 0.0 33.8 0.0 0.0
LnGrp LOS C A A B A A C A A C A A
Approach Vol, veh/h 494 277 325 470
Approach Delay, s/veh 25.8 16.0 23.8 33.8
Approach LOS C B C C

Timer - Assigned Phs 2 4 6 8

Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 31.5 34.5 31.5 34.5

Change Period (Y+Rc), s *9.6 *9.6 *96 *96

Max Green Setting (Gmax), s *18 *28 *18 *28

Max Q Clear Time (g_ct+l1), s 14.4 23.8 21.3 11.6

Green Ext Time (p_c), s 0.5 1.1 0.0 1.2

Intersection Summary

HCM 6th Ctrl Delay 26.1

HCM 6th LOS Cc

Notes

* HCM 6th computational engine requires equal clearance times for the phases crossing the barrier.

Cumulative PP PM Synchro 11 Report
Fehr & Peers Page 4


--- page 276 ---
HCM 6th AWSC

13: South Claremont St & East 2nd Ave

Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh
Intersection LOS

Movement

Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
Future Vol, veh/h
Peak Hour Factor
Heavy Vehicles, %
Mvmt Flow

Number of Lanes

Approach

Opposing Approach
Opposing Lanes
Conflicting Approach Left
Conflicting Lanes Left
Conflicting Approach Right
Conflicting Lanes Right
HCM Control Delay

HCM LOS

Lane

Vol Left, %

Vol Thru, %

Vol Right, %

Sign Control

Traffic Vol by Lane
LT Vol

Through Vol

RT Vol

Lane Flow Rate
Geometry Grp
Degree of Util (X)
Departure Headway (Hd)
Convergence, Y/N
Cap

Service Time

HCM Lane VIC Ratio
HCM Control Delay
HCM Lane LOS
HCM 95th-tile Q

Cumulative PP PM
Fehr & Peers

14.7

NBLn‘1
15%
70%
15%
Stop

200

EBLn1
10%
59%
31%
Stop

290

14.1

WBLn1
7%
67%
26%
Stop
270
20
180
70
293

1
0.478
5.862
Yes
616
3.876
0.476
14.1
B

2.6

SBLn1
27%
64%

9%
Stop
220
60
140
20
239

1
0.411
6.188
Yes
581
4.24
0.411
13.5
B

2

12.9

SBL

60

0.92

65

SB
NB

WB

EB

13.5

12/28/2023
SBT __SBR

eb
140 20
140 20
0.92 0.92
1 |
152 22
{ 0

Synchro 11 Report

Page 5


--- page 277 ---
Appendix B: Existing Traffic Counts


--- page 278 ---
www.idaxdata.com

Baldwin Ave

——> J

87
38 a |

Baldwin Ave

Two-Hour Count Summaries

BaldwinAve | WAT CUT BE,
Interval
Start

Count Total

Peak
Hour
Av 50% 2%

Project Manager: (415) 310-6469

EB
WB
NB
SB

HV %:

3.4%

4.7%
5.2%

TOTAL 4.3%

allies
TH

0%

0%

11%
Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

Heavy Vehicle Totals
EB WB NB SB Totalf EB

SB

Date: 05/24/2023
Count Period: 7:00 AM to 9:00 AM
Peak Hour: 8:00 AM to 9:00 AM

5-min | Rolling

Southbound an One Hour

29
4
59
34
36

Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
East West North South Total

project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com


--- page 279 ---


--- page 280 ---
www.idaxdata.com

Baldwin Ave “&
Date: 05/24/2023

Peak Hour Count Period: 4:00PM to 6:00 PM
Peak Hour: 5:00PM to 6:00 PM

74

Baldwin Ave HV %:

EB 0.0%
WB -
NB 0.0%
SB 0.0%
TOTAL 0.0%

Two-Hour Count Summaries

BaldwinAve | NA | BSE BSE
Interval 15-min
Start Total

Eastbound Westbound Northbound Southbound
UT LT TH RT {| UT LT TH RT | UT LT
22 18

RT
0
15 0 11
18 0 11 8
20 0 13 6
15 0 18
24 0 23 11
| 89
| 655 _ |

89
58
74
67
82
97
fot 0 w/o o o o|o s8  o/o 0 0 2
655
67
0

Rolling
One Hour

0
CountTotal | 0 158 O 1 4 70 8 O | 1 0 116 93

0 2 33 0

0

367
a0 0 0 0
pea | A! 74 0 0 0 6 of] 3
eae) HV 0 o}]o o 0 o oO
Hour
HV% 0% 0% ; 0%

Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

Heavy Vehicle Totals Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
EB WB NB SB Total} EB WB SB Total} East West North South Total
14

|_Peak Hr_| oo

Project Manager: (415) 310-6469 project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com


--- page 281 ---


--- page 282 ---
www.idaxdata.com

South B St idox
1st Ave AN
Date: 05/24/2023

Peak Hour Count Period: 7:00 AM to 9:00 AM
Peak Hour: 8:00 AM to 9:00 AM

o
+

South B St

2
4? ] ist Ave
ww 36

92
<— Ss TEV: 236
a 59 mp PHF: «0.92

<<(100000
HV %: V1er

EB 49% 0. or

WB 54% 0. ’

NB - th

SB 4.7% 0. 0
TOTAL 5.1%

1st Ave

South B St

Two-Hour Count Summaries

| stave | tstAve | South st | SouthBst |,
15-min | Rolling

oie} o 9 0 o| 1 wo aj as [0

0
Peak 1 10 50 0
ea 0 oOo 3 0
Hour
% 0% 0% 6% om

Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

Heavy Vehicle Totals Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
EB NB SB__Totalf East = West = North = South Total
2 0

5 0 3 18 | 14 1 8 3 13 | 164 70 68 52-364
a 24182

Project Manager: (415) 310-6469 project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com


--- page 283 ---


--- page 284 ---
www.idaxdata.com

South B St idox
1st Ave AN
Date: 05/24/2023

Peak Hour Count Period: 4:00PM to 6:00 PM
Peak Hour: 5:00PM to 6:00 PM

do

1 l U ist Ave Ju
~” Con

0
24 —J TEV: 414

gg me» —-~PHF: «0.96

=)
South B St

HV %:

1.6%

WB 3.0%
NB -

SB 0.0%

a TOTAL 1.7%

South B St

Two-Hour Count Summaries

| tstAve | tstAve | SouthBst_

ro Westbound Northbound i Rolling
astboun estboun lorthboun One Hour
UT LT TH RT | UT LT TH RT | UT LT T

1

2 22 15

25
0 44° 161 0 173, 141] 0
98

7
Beets All 88
ea HV
Hour
HV% 0% 6% 0%

Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

Heavy Vehicle Totals Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
EB WB NB SB Total} EB WB NB SB Total} East West North South _ Total
2 8 10

Count Total

Project Manager: (415) 310-6469 project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com


--- page 285 ---


--- page 286 ---
www.idaxdata.com

South B St idox
2nd Ave AN
Date: 05/24/2023

Peak Hour Count Period: 7:00 AM to 9:00 AM
Peak Hour: 8:00 AM to 9:00 AM

South B St

159
<— om TEV: 257

a te me PHF: 0.92

<((000
yi¢

EB . . ow Oo

WB 1. ’

— db

2nd Ave

South B St

TOTAL 1.2%

Two-Hour Count Summaries

| and Ave | nd Ave | South st | SouthBst |,
15-min | Rolling

o_o [0 2 ao} ooo ofa 9 oo | #1 [9

0 0
0 0
Peak
Hour 0 0
% ae

Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

Heavy Vehicle Totals Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
EB NB SB__Totalf East = West = North = South Total
3

Count Total

Project Manager: (415) 310-6469 project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com


--- page 287 ---


--- page 288 ---
www.idaxdata.com

South B St idox
2nd Ave AN
Date: 05/24/2023

Peak Hour Count Period: 4:00PM to 6:00 PM
Peak Hour: 5:00PM to 6:00 PM

do

Jub
é auoe>
123
TEV: 360
PHF: 0.91

HV %:

0.5%
WB 0.0%
NB -
SB 0.0%
° TOTAL 0.3%

South B St

Two-Hour Count Summaries

; F
oa Westbound Northbound Rolling
astboun estboun lorthboun One Hour

UT LT TH RT | UT LT TH RT | UT LT T

61 40
50 36

39 30
50 30

Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

Heavy Vehicle Totals Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
EB WB NB SB Total} EB WB NB SB Total} East West North South _ Total
1 0 1 59 4 16

44 56 33 31 164

Count Total 1 2 1 0 4 323 484 238 180 1,225
187 234 123 106-650

Project Manager: (415) 310-6469 project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com


--- page 289 ---


--- page 290 ---
www.idaxdata.com

S Ellsworth Ave idoxX
1st Ave AN
Date: 05/24/2023

Peak Hour Count Period: 7:00 AM to 9:00 AM
Peak Hour: 8:00 AM to 9:00 AM

do

Jib

S Ellsworth Ave

HV %:

EB 0.0%
WB 5.4%
NB 2.8%
SB 1.4%
TOTAL 2.9%

S Ellsworth Ave

Two-Hour Count Summaries

. ;
Total | One Hour
UT LT TH RT UT LT TH RT UT LT TH RT UT LT TH RT
10 6 5 4 7 41
4 8
16 13
18 33
16 36

24
21

| CountTotal [ 0 2 OF 8 {| 0 90 5 74] 2 14 138 58 44178 3 [| 617 | Oo |
0 40 #3 49

peak | A! 1 9 «5 20. +117 384
Hour HV 2 o 3/0 0 414 3 0 2 #0 1
HV% 5% 0% 6% | 0% 0% 1% 8% 0% 2% 0% | 3%

Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

Heavy Vehicle Totals Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
EB WB NB SB Total} EB WB NB SB Total} East West North South _ Total
2 0

Project Manager: (415) 310-6469 project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com


--- page 291 ---


--- page 292 ---
www.idaxdata.com

S Ellsworth Ave
1st Ave

Peak Hour

=)
S Ellsworth Ave

am 153
”

JILU

LU

o

TEV: 478
1 =
5

Driveway ig]
o

Two-Hour Count Summaries

4
<<.
6

air

KR
o
N

| "Suet [tet tern S Ellsworth Ave S Ellsworth Ave

Eastbound Westbound Northbound Southbound
UT LT TH RT | UT LT TH RT | UT LT TH RT | UT LT TH RT

2 24a hy a
BRRaANA

20

oo o0o9cocsec &
oooo0o0oso

oO
oO

1
0
0
0
2
0
1
4
1

ist Ave

Ga

= 0

PHF: 0.85 co 76
0

EB
WB
NB
SB
TOTAL

S Ellsworth Ave

1
0
0
0
0
0
0
3

a
dex
cN
Date: 05/24/2023

Count Period: 4:00PM to 6:00 PM
Peak Hour: 4:00PM to 5:00 PM

do

Jib

HV %:
0.0%
4.3%
1.7%
2.8%
2.7%

15-min
Total

Rolling
One Hour

9
13
13
17
24
21

38
30
37
37
37
35

22
28
28
24
26

14 12 28 22 23
a 2018 | 2 607052 | oa [0 |
5 6 41

1
7

oO OINiIi- oO - O CO CO fo

oo
oo

0
0%

0
0%

a All
ea HV
Hour
HV%

0
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
0

33%

0%

1 26
2
8%

153
3
2%

0
0%

478
13
1% 2% | 0% 3%

Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

Heavy Vehicle Totals
EB WB NB __ SB___Totalf EB WB

ojooo0°o039e 8 8S

|
ae

wofat- oo -=2 06 =

Count Total

aAlARIo- OOON N

10
5

o
=
wo

Project Manager: (415) 310-6469

NB

oo oooo &
BLOW 0090 CO SF

oO
=~
Ls)

FILO OA; OO =A N

Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)

SB Total} East West North South _ Total

AIM OOOO = 06
iti — a — ee)

olan

project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com


--- page 293 ---


--- page 294 ---
www.idaxdata.com

S Claremont Ave idox
1st Ave AN
Date: 05/24/2023

Peak Hour Count Period: 7:00 AM to 9:00 AM
Peak Hour: 7:45AM to 8:45 AM

a for)
o ve)

do

Jib

S Claremont Ave

0
120
<— —_J TEV: 388

A me PHF: 0.97

1st Ave
HV %:

EB 2.5%
WB 1.6%
NB 4.1%
SB 1.0%
TOTAL 2.6%

S Claremont Ave

Two-Hour Count Summaries

S Claremont Ave S Claremont Ave j
Eastbound Westbound Northbound Southbound 1S-min | Rolling
astboun estboun lorthboun: outhboun Total One Hour
UT LT TH et] ut Lt TH et] ut ct TH etl ut LT TH. RT

12 2 12 1437 104 15 76
9 9 0 2 68
12 15 0 2 75
8 9 0 4 92

0 14 0 0 0 1 97
0 2 12 0 0 4 2
0 1 0

119 1 5 1
0 1101 16] 2 108 118 17 | 0 4 126 23[ 699 | Oo |
46 6 64 76 8 82 10

Count Total

95 55 1 1
All 45 28 9 7
1 1 0 1 0 5 1 0 1 0
HV% 2% 4% 0% 2% 0% 8% 1% 0% 14% 0%

Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

Heavy Vehicle Totals Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
EB WB NB SB Total} EB WB NB SB Total} East West North South _ Total
2

Project Manager: (415) 310-6469 project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com


--- page 295 ---


--- page 296 ---
www.idaxdata.com

S Claremont Ave idox
1st Ave AN
Date: 05/24/2023

Peak Hour Count Period: 4:00PM to 6:00 PM
Peak Hour: 5:00PM to 6:00 PM

do

Jub
é aunoe>

@== 61

poJ tev: 574
———> 447 5 PHF: (0.87

1st Ave
HV %:

0.9%

WB 0.9%
NB 3.9%
SB 0.0%
TOTAL 1.6%

S Claremont Ave

Two-Hour Count Summaries

S Claremont Ave S Claremont Ave
15-min | Rolling

Eastbound Westbound Northbound Southbound Total |One Hour
UT LT TH RT | UT LT TH RT | UT LT TH RT | UT LT TH T
32 33 9 0 26 14

1 1

140
4 20 1 10 127 574

14 3
0 14 257 141] 0 32 153 2 0 110 149 36] 0 26 126 26] 1,097 | Oo |
7 77 (1 60 72 21 5

7
All 9 1 574
Sees SEED
HV% 0% 1% 0% 1% 0% 8% 0% 5% 0% 0% 0% 2%

Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

Heavy Vehicle Totals Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
EB WB NB SB Total} EB WB NB SB Total} East West North South _ Total
4 1

2
Count Total 5 2 10 0 17
| PeakHour | 200070 6 9 8B

Project Manager: (415) 310-6469 project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com


--- page 297 ---


--- page 298 ---
www.idaxdata.com

S Ellsworth Ave idoxX
2nd Ave AN
Date: 05/24/2023

Peak Hour Count Period: 7:00 AM to 9:00 AM
Peak Hour: 8:00 AM to 9:00 AM

S Ellsworth Ave

0
181
<— 4d TEV: 600

aT Tamme PHF: (0.87

2nd Ave
HV %:

0.6%

WB 1.3%
NB 1.7%
SB 1.4%
TOTAL 1.2%

S Ellsworth Ave

Two-Hour Count Summaries

| "Suet [eens tern S Ellsworth Ave S Ellsworth Ave

Eastbound Westbound Northbound Southbound 1S-min | Rolling
astboun estboun lorthboun' outhboun Total One Hour
UT LT TH RT| UT LT TH RT] UT LT TH RT YJ UT LT TH~ RT
10 8 10 7 8 57

1 7
9 5 3 11 9
11 1 12 19 9
14 7 12 22 19
18 9 17 25 15
23 5 19 19 18
16 0 26 20 3

0 124 121 37 | 0 17 196 44 | 0 123 22/0 13 151 89 | 962 | O |
9 12

25

peak | A! 79 24|0 #9 +421 30/0 «15 +«8 0 1 «91 «+451 600

Hour HV 0 0 2 #o|fo0 0 2 oO 1 1 0 7
HV% 1% 0% 0% 0% 2% 0%| - 0% 2% 0% 9% 1% 0% | 1%

Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

Heavy Vehicle Totals Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
EB WB NB SB Total} EB WB NB SB Total} East West North South _ Total
3

Count Total 6
2

Project Manager: (415) 310-6469 project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com


--- page 299 ---


--- page 300 ---
www.idaxdata.com

S Ellsworth Ave
2nd Ave

Peak Hour

S Ellsworth Ave

J
o—
6—J

138 =

173
<—

——>

TEV: 816
PHF: 0.83

2nd Ave

S Ellsworth Ave

TOTAL

Two-Hour Count Summaries

| "Suet [eens tern S Ellsworth Ave S Ellsworth Ave

Eastbound Westbound Northbound Southbound
UT LT TH RT | UT LT TH RT | UT LT TH RT | UT LT TH RT

7
13
12
10
17
16

oo o0o9cocsec &
oooo0o- co
oooo0o0os

oO
=
oO

18-3814 2
107 304 119 55 152 68 35.176 = 76
24 80 35 20 93 40

46
2
4%

138
0
0%

oo
=
oo

2
6%

0
0%

0
0%

a All
ea HV
Hour
HV%

0%

a
dex
cN
Date: 05/24/2023

Count Period: 4:00PM to 6:00 PM
Peak Hour: 4:00PM to 5:00 PM

HV %:
0.8%
1.4%
1.3%
2.3%
1.5%

WB
NB
SB

15-min
Total

Rolling
One Hour

20
19
24
19
21
21
22 1

39
43
39
44
49
39
23

NO

19 167 73 816
12
1%

9
12

0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1

1 1
5% 1%

0
0%

Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

penal Heavy Vehicle Totals

NTOOOCO SO ON
Al=- a= 0c0 Osmo =
-=1TO O00 0 oO So

—
o

of7- NOOO WN
woTfor-aooao-o =

Project Manager: (415) 310-6469

0 3 3
0% 2% 4%

Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
NB SB Total} East West North South _ Total
15
15
36
16
15
25
30
161

75

83
79
83
87
3
1

wWlLOoOooces oS w
Oly wo Ar ooe so

139 138
80 70

225 66.
106 33

project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com


--- page 301 ---


--- page 302 ---
www.idaxdata.com

S Claremont St idox
2nd Ave AN
Date: 05/24/2023

Peak Hour Count Period: 7:00 AM to 9:00 AM
Peak Hour: 7:45AM to 8:45 AM

S Claremont St

3——J TEV: 541
47m PHF: «(0.95

21

2nd Ave ig]
HV %:
o —_— ca
N EB 0.0%
WB 3.6%
NB 0.8%
9 SB 0.9%
- TOTAL 1.8%

Two-Hour Count Summaries

S Claremont St S Claremont St
Rolling

Eastbound Westbound Northbound Southbound One Hour
UT LT TH RT | UT LT TH RT | UT LT TH RT | UT LT TH T
3 5 3 8 3

1

S Claremont St

| CountTotal [ 0 24 68 33 {[ 0 16 280 85 | 0 36 137 1
21 23 92

peak | A
eak | HV o 1
Hour

HV% 14% 1% 12% 0% 1% 0%

Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

Heavy Vehicle Totals Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
EB WB NB SB Total} EB WB NB SB Total} East West North South _ Total
1 0

27

Project Manager: (415) 310-6469 project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com


--- page 303 ---


--- page 304 ---
www.idaxdata.com

S Claremont St idox
2nd Ave AN
Date: 05/24/2023

Peak Hour Count Period: 4:00PM to 6:00 PM
Peak Hour: 4:45PM to 5:45 PM

16 —J TEV: 647
107 =
61

=!
2nd Ave ig]
—)

PHF: 0.92

HV %:

0.0%

WB 2.3%
NB 0.0%
SB 0.0%
TOTAL 0.6%

S Claremont St

Two-Hour Count Summaries

S Claremont St S Claremont St

Eastbound Westbound Northbound Southbound 1S-min | Rolling
astboun estboun lorthboun' outhboun Total One Hour
UT LT TH RT| UT LT TH RT] UT LT TH RT YJ UT LT TH~ RT
41 12 11 37

0 24 204 111] 1 22 234 92] 0 43 194 3 0 80 183 29] 1,248 [ 0 |
20 6

1 0
All 1 18 41
HV% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 10% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%

Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

Heavy Vehicle Totals Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
EB WB NB SB Total} EB WB NB SB Total} East West North South _ Total
6 0 6

Count Total

Project Manager: (415) 310-6469 project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com


--- page 305 ---


--- page 306 ---
q EL

Vv

q vi
q el
Vv

Vv

peafoig
sN]d eAe;nuND

q EL

Vv

q vi
q el
Vv

Vv

aaneynun>

q OL

OL

Vv

Vv

q EL
q LL
Vv

Vv

peafoig
snid 4e2, buluedo

q OL

OL

4ea, Huiuado

OL

EL
LL

t<<ataomoooao<c«t«<

BHunysixy

€Z0Z ‘S180q 79 JYa4 :aduNO0S

papjog aie suoijesado ajqeydaazeun YAM SUO!}I9S19}U| :2JON

Wd
WV
Wd
WV
Wd

WV
Wd
WV
Wd
WV

poled
122d

(sas Sr)
d-PIW

(sos Sr)
C-PIN

Ployseay.
sol

doys juowale]> innoe
Kem Iv pue BNUBAY puZ
anuaay

pezyeubis = Yoms}|3 y3nos
pue anuady puz

dois quowade|> ianos
Aen IV pue anuary 4s
paziyeubis anes
pue anuady 4s

dois —-JaasaS g yINos pue
eM IV anuaay ulmyjeg

adky
jo1}u05

U01}99S19}U|

Asewiuins suoije1ad¢ uol}3aS19}U]


--- page 307 ---
Report
May 2024

31-57 B Street TDM Plan

City of San Mateo
Our ref: 24454801
Client ref: PA-2022-089


--- page 308 ---


--- page 309 ---


--- page 310 ---


--- page 311 ---


--- page 312 ---


--- page 313 ---


--- page 314 ---


--- page 315 ---
31-57 B Street TDM Plan | Report

Figure 1. City of San Mateo Zoning Map

R1A- One Family Dwelling “A*
| R1B- One Famity Dwelting “B*

Source: City of San Mateo 2022

Demography and Travel Trends

The travel trends described in this section are based on information from the Census Bureau
for the project’s census tract (6063). Census Tracts are used to analyze population and
demography on a neighborhood scale.

New Census data was released in the time between the TDM Background Assessment and the
preparation of this TDM Plan. To provide the most recent data, this document will use
whatever new data is available from the 2021 American Communities Survey (ACS) and Census
Reporter. Worth noting, however, is that the use of this newer data may lead to slight
inconsistencies between the TDM Background Assessment and TDM Plan.

Demography

The project site is located within Census Tract 6063 and has a population of 3,928 people. The
demographic information presented in Table 2 was collected from the 2021 ACS and Census
Reporter.

Table 2. Census Tract 6063 Demographic Characteristics

Amount or
percentage

Age Under 18 19%
18 to 64 58%

Characteristics

Category

65 and over

Education

Bachelor’s degree or higher

Households Renter-Occupied Housing Units

Number of households

steer May 2024 | 2


--- page 316 ---
31-57 B Street TDM Plan | Report

Persons per household 2.2
Median household income $96,250

Race White alone 37%
Asian alone 20%
Hispanic or Latino 30%
Black or African American 3%
Mixed 10%

Languages Speaks English only 47.5%

spoken Speaks a language other than English: Spanish 30.5%
Speaks a language other than English: Indo-European Languages 8.5%
Speaks a language other than English: Asian and Pacific Island 13%}
Languages

Source: Census Reporter
Travel Trends

The data from ACS 2021 indicates that 59% of people that live within the census tract 6063
drive alone to work, this is a 13% decrease in drive alone rates from 2019. The data also
reports that 13% of the population carpool to work and 9% take public transit, while 13% work
from home (see Figure 2). Of those that commute to work, the mean travel time is 23.4
minutes, a reduction in average commute time from 2019 (27.6 minutes). Commuting patterns
have been impacted by the pandemic however and may be in flux for some time as businesses
gradually return to normal. Post-pandemic scenarios might produce new commuting patterns
as more organizations implement hybrid and flexible working habits.

Figure 2. Commute Mode Split

59%

13%" out 13%!
° amt ogt
MM °* .... ” a
Drovealone Carpooled Publictransit Bicycle Walked Other Worked at
home

Source: ACS 2021 5-Year, census.gov

As shown in Table 3, residents in Census Tract 6063 commute to a variety of locations, with
the majority commuting out of San Mateo. The City of San Francisco has the highest share of
commuters (22.4%), followed by the City of San Mateo (13.9%).

Table 3. Job Locations

Job Locations

San Francisco, CA 414 22.4%

San Mateo, CA 257 13.9%

1 Due to rounding segments, the total percentage may not add up to exactly 100%

steer May 2024 | 3


--- page 317 ---
31-57 B Street TDM Plan | Report

Redwood City, CA 112 6.1%
Palo Alto, CA 105 5.7%
South San Francisco, CA 89 4.8%
Burlingame, CA 69 3.7%
San Jose 65 3.5%
Menlo Park 63 3.4%
San Carlos 41 2.2%
Foster City 40 2.2%
All Other Locations 595 32.2%
All Places (Cities, CDPs, etc.) 1,850 100%

Source: Census 2019 OnTheMap Analysis

Inflow/Outflow analysis of the census tract, as shown in Figure 3, depicts that 1,759 individuals
commute out of the area and 7,311 people commute into the area for work daily. A total of 91
individuals both live and work inside the census tract.

Figure 3. Inflow and Outflow Patterns

7p 3/191!

Source: U.S Census Bureau, Center for Economic Studies

steer May 2024 | 4


--- page 318 ---
31-57 B Street TDM Plan | Report

Site Assessment

A site assessment was conducted as part of the TDM Plan development process. The site
assessment included a description of the site’s geography and road network, pedestrian and
bicycle infrastructure, transit services, nearby attractions, and existing TDM services.

Site Geography and Road Network

The project site is located on the city block bounded by 1*t Avenue, South B Street, and Transit
Center Way and is opposite to the Downtown San Mateo Caltrain Station.

As displayed in Figure 4, the site is surrounded by:

e Collector streets — 15t Avenue and South B Street
e Local — Transit Center Way

Figure 4. Street Network

STREET CLASSIFICATION

Freeway
Arterial
Collector
Local

— Bay Meadows II
+H Railroad

em 0 San Mateo City Limits

Source: City of San Mateo Public Works

From the site drivers can quickly reach Highway 101 and continue onwards to East Bay
communities via Highway 92 and the San Mateo-Hayward Bridge. Continuing north on
Highway 101 and the Bayshore Freeway connects drivers to San Francisco, Hayward, Palo Alto,
and Mountain View within 20 minutes. Figure 5 shows the 20-minute driving sheds from the
project site in both rush hour and free flow time.

steer May 2024 | 5


--- page 319 ---
31-57 B Street TDM Plan | Report

Figure 5. 20 Minute Car Shed for 31-57 South B Street.

Source: WalkScore.com

The intersections at both corners of the project site are collector streets. The intersection of
South B Street and 1*t Avenue was reviewed as part of the San Mateo Existing Conditions
Circulation Report, and revealed that the intersections see a reasonably consistent traffic flow.
They both maintain a “B” level of service (LOS) in the AM and PM hours (Table 4).

Table 4. Levels of Service for B Street and 1st Avenue

Signalized Intersection Peak-Hour Levels of Service

Year 2018 Conditions

AM Peak Hour

PM Peak Hour

Sources: San Mateo Existing Conditions Circulation Report (2019)

Pedestrian and Bicycle Infrastructure

Delay LOS Delay LOS
B Street and 15t Avenue 10.3 B 10.4 B

The site’s topography, street network, and its location in the center of Downtown San Mateo
make this area conducive to pedestrian and bicycle access. The site is located at the northern
end of the Downtown B Street Pedestrian Mall. The walkability website Walkscore.com gives
the site a 99/100 score for walking, which they classify as “Walker’s Paradise — daily errands

do not require a car.” The walkshed for the project area is seen in Figure 6.

steer

May 2024 | 6


--- page 320 ---
31-57 B Street TDM Plan | Report

Figure 6. 20-minute pedestrian shed for 31-57 South B Street.

NORTH CENTRAL

Source: WalkScore.com
Presently, there exist the following bicycle facilities nearby / adjacent to the project site:

e aClass Ill facility on South B Street,
e aClass II bike lane on 1° Ave.

The bike route on South B Street continue via 5" Ave to a bike lane on South Delaware Street,
creating multiple access opportunities for cyclists.

In the future, there are plans to develop additional bike lanes and boulevards nearby /
adjacent to the project site (Error! Not a valid bookmark self-reference. and Table 5).

Figure 7. Planned Bicycle Network

Proposed
=== Shared Use Path

@) Caltrain Stations

—— Rail Lines
=== Separated Bike Lane
. Parks
=== Buffered Bike Lane
Schools

=== Bike Lane NN

Bicycle Boul d Water
=s«= Bicycle Boulevar ,
y © Intersection Treatments

=== Bike Route Requiring further study

steer May 2024 | 7


--- page 321 ---
31-57 B Street TDM Plan | Report

Source: San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan 2020

As displayed in Figure 8, 1%* Avenue and South B Street are classified as “High Stress” streets by
the April 2020 San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan, making the streets suited for more experienced
cyclists. The streets are still in a high bicycle connectivity area, making cycling appealing in the

area generally.

Figure 8. Level of Stress

Transit Other Bicycle Level of Traffic Stess
> Rail Lines Parks (All Streets)
& Caltrain Stations | Schools —— Low Stress
(>) Water — High Stress

Source: San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan 2020

BikeLink operates multiple on-demand bike lockers located at nearby Caltrain stations.
BikeLink allows bicyclists to securely store their bikes in lockers using a stored-value card that
can be purchased online or at nearby vendors. There are 24 lockers at the Downtown San
Mateo Caltrain station. Additionally, four free-to-use public bike repair stations are located
within walking distance of the project site.

City of San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan

The 2020 Bicycle Master Plan was adopted by the City Council on April 6, 2020 and serves as a
blueprint for expanding and improving the San Mateo bicycle and mobility network in the
coming years. The Plan includes three recommendations relevant to the 1* & B project site, all
of which are considered ‘high priority’ projects (Table 5).

Table 5. Planned Bicycle Facilities

Bicycle Facility Distance to Project Site
B Street Bike Boulevard: Railroad Avenue (West) and Baldwin 164 ft

Avenue.

Railroad Avenue West Bike Boulevard: 3" Avenue and 4" Avenue. 0.1 miles

Baldwin Avenue Bike Lane: San Mateo Drive and South B Street 0.2 miles

steer May 2024 | 8


--- page 322 ---


--- page 323 ---


--- page 324 ---


--- page 325 ---


--- page 326 ---
31-57 B Street TDM Plan | Report

Figure 9: Safe Routes to School

Laurel Elementary School
0375750 1,500

Suggested Routes to School Abbott Middle >
0375750

Suggested Routes to School

For turther information on walking and biking to schoo, visit the District webpage at
etp/newsmick12.caus/Welness

A Gitywide bike plans also avallable for dounload at
hep./twwctyofsanmateo org fiving > Getting Around » ike information)

Source: City of San Mateo — Safe Routes to School
Parks
There are five parks located within a one-mile walking distance of the project site.

e Gateway Park is a park with a small creek. The park is located 0.5 miles from the project
site and can be easily accessed by foot (10 minutes) or bike (3 minutes).

e San Mateo Central Park is a 16.5-acre park, bounded by 9th Avenue, East 5th Avenue ,
North El Camino Real, and Laurel Avenue.. The southern entrance to the site is a seven-
minute walk from the project site. The park hosts a baseball field, tennis courts,
sculptures, playground, a Japanese tea garden, recreation center, miniature train, rose
garden and the San Mateo Arboretum. Central Park is one of the most popular parks and
attractions in San Mateo, which will need to be considered when determining the TDM
strategies. The park is about 0.5 miles from the project side and can be accessed by foot
(9 minutes) or bike (3 minutes).

e De Anza Historical Park is a relatively small park, located along Arroyo Court. It is one of
the historical parks along the 1,200-mile Juan Bautista de Anza National Historic Trail that
commemorates the route traveled by Anza and the colonists from Nogales, Arizona, to
San Francisco. The park has a historic camp-site marker from 1775. The park is located
only 0.5 miles away from the project site can be accessed by walking (11 minutes) or by
bike (4 minutes).

e Martin Luther King Jr. Community Center and Park located at 725 Monte Diablo Avenue,
is a vital neighborhood resource, considered a central meeting spot for special groups,
luncheons, community events, and/or for a variety of athletic opportunities.

e Bay Tree Park located at 150 Dartmouth Road, is a small urban parklet and greenspace
with large trees and park benches serving well as a sheltered resting place from rain or
shine.

steer May 2024 | 13


--- page 327 ---


--- page 328 ---


--- page 329 ---


--- page 330 ---
31-57 B Street TDM Plan | Report

Figure 10.

Estimated C/CAG trip reduction

C/CAG TDM o hec kl ist oaheaer (Office, industrial, Institutional) Land Use: Page 1 of 2
=—ve= ecagtdm.org 100-499 ADT; -10,000-49,999 sq ft
About this Form A Applicant Information

Any new development project anticipated to Project Address: Contact First ond Lost Name

generote at beast 100 average dally trips is subject to
the C/CAG TOM Policy and must complete a TOM

Checklist and implement associated measures to cid Slerrion frees Lisiaad : Contact Phane Address
mitigate tratficimpacts, reed moreotccostimors [034-054-030 _][? [6 | [1 J2 fo [2 [2 ][s10-466-1485
Project durieetietiey Sontact Email Address:

Ey Questions?

31-57 5. B Street, San Mateo CA 94401 Preuan O'Connell

OS support@rccagtdm.org San Mateo

. . Reod ibe high itty te it
B | Trip Reduction Target o.jocr cnc option hosed on your project's distance to hith quality trenalt ‘i ccoptdm.cral pquniity-tnn sit
identity your projact type
? :
© Top O Transit Proximate | D Non-Transit Proximate
Lass than 1/2-mile from high quality transit service 1/2 to 3 miles from high quality transit service More than 2 miles fram high quality transit service
Trip Ri in Requi Trip R jon Requi | Pp Reduction Requ
25% trip Reductio red | 35% trip Reducti red 25% Trip Reductlo ined

fog Required Measures vou must select ali measures that apply for your project type
Pry ¥ prop ¥P

Measure

M1 - Free/Preferential Parking for Carpools

ideals Of preferential parking, including reserved spoces of spaces near an entrance of other desirable location, to incentivize
ng.

M3 = TDM Coordinator/Contact Person

Provide TDM coordinator/talson for tenants. May be contracted through 3rd party provider, such os Commute.ong,

M5 - Carpool or Vanpool Program
Establich carpeol/vanpesl program fer tenants and register program with Commute.org.

Offer tenants passes or subeldies for monthly public transit or ridesharing coste Incurred, equivalent to 30% of value or $50 -
whichever Is. lower,

M7 - Pre-Tox Transportation Benefits

‘Offer option for tenants to participate ino pre-tox transit program te encourage the use of sustainable transportation modes and
leverage pre-tax Income te pay for cornmute tip costs.

M& - Secure Bicycle Storage

Comply with CaIGREEN minimum bieyele parking requirements,

M9 ~ Design Streets to Encourage Bike/Ped Access
Design adjacent streets or roadways to facilitate multimodal travel.

M25 = Showers, Lockers, and Changing Rooms for Cyclists
These amenities serve as end of trip facilities for employees arriving by bike or other active transportation forms.

Click on each measure’s title for more information

Project Types Percentage Yes

ALL

ALL

ALL

ALL

ALL

Alb

Ix O

0.5%
6.5%

2% @

10% @

Ix @

Ix @
Ix @

2% OG

steer

Total from Required Measures fa |

24

Form Continues on Page 2 >

May 2024 | 17


--- page 331 ---
31-57 B Street TDM Plan | Report

ential (Office, Industrial, institutional) Land Use: page 202

C/CAG TDM Checklist —SmrailFroje
ccagtdm.org 100-499 ADT; ~10,000-49,999 sq ft

Ey Additional Recommended seis:: enough w meet the trip reduction target fromm section 8

Foc aa cto srrployans sats WaxRadty ta Wish Salty Wire ache dan, Cisrsocsosed Wink Wagk aon edojoua oar hie: baa

& Click on each measure’s title tor more information

Project Types Percentage Yes

longer days. Telecommuting functions simitrly, allowing employees to work from home rather than the office, reducing vehicle travel
remotely.

on the days they work

M14 - Paid Parking at Market Rate
Offer hourty/daily parking rates proportional to monthly rate or equivalent to cost of transit fare,

MI5 ~ Reduced Parking

Provide off-street parking at least 10% below locally-required minimums, or else below the locally-permitted parking maximums.
Potentic! areas.

Consideration may be required of
16 — -T Dail

spillover parking into surrounding

Offer daity or hourly parking rates that are proportional to the monthly rate or approximately the cost of a transit fare,

Voluntary impact fee payment on a per unit or square footage basis, to fund the implementation of TDM programs.

MIB - Car Share On-Site

Provide on-site cor share or vehicle fleets.

Gin wibins eae Gn o€ GegSeark Hes AIBN ToT eT eTONaTNTEE

Visual/Electrical improvements (ie, Lighting, Signage) 1% O
Other (le, Micromobility Parking Zone, TNC Loading Zone) 1% O

Estabion ort sere to reloal vara hub of commercial centers Shute vice should be provide Hee of charge to
employees and guests.

Allocate space for bike/ scooter share parking.

M22 - Active Transportation Subsidies

Offer biking/walking incentives to tenants, such a gift card/product raffles,

M23 - Gap Closure
Construct or enhance quality of biking and walking facilities to/from site to existing trails, bikeways, and/or adjacent
streets.

24 ~ Bi s
Offer on-site bike repair space/tools in visible, secure area,

Pedes ri pe FIO
pantie segs op pce pyr pam pce dT

All 5% 2
au 25% O
Au 10% O
au 2% O
aut 4% 0
aut Ix O
Bus Pullout space 1% O ,.,
Oo
Bus sheiter 1% O
~0.
selected
Peumore” 10% O
all lx O
all 2% 0
al 7% O
al 0.5% 0
al 3% 0

& Project Totals

Percentage from
Recruired Measures

t 10
Percentage from
Additional Measures
Dow

=>

Questions?

+

from all

Trip Reduction
Measures

Total Percenta
Sel jet

Total Per
sepeceay tthenacenig les 2 rf
greater than or

Reduction Target r

from all

See #
submit this form.

Total from Additional Measures («_]

Submit Checklist

for how to

40. ox

C] Visit Our Website
Se @ ccactdmorg

Project TDM Measures | C/CAG Required Measures

The following sections describe the measures included in the TDM Plan for 31-57 B Street. For
each measure, the Plan provides implementation guidance as well as the estimated daily VMT

reduction and vehicle trip reduction, per calculations uti

lizing the TDM ROI Calculator (refer to

Chapter 4). Of note, these estimates often differ from the projected trip reduction estimates
from the C/CAG checklist. The combination of strategies designated as “required” below
account for 24% of estimated trip reduction, according to C/CAG estimates. The “additional
recommended” measures in the following section are also required to account for the
remaining trip reduction necessary to meet the total 25% trip reduction required by C/CAG.

steer

May 2024 | 18


--- page 332 ---


--- page 333 ---


--- page 334 ---


--- page 335 ---


--- page 336 ---


--- page 337 ---


--- page 338 ---


--- page 339 ---


--- page 340 ---


--- page 341 ---


--- page 342 ---


--- page 343 ---


--- page 344 ---


--- page 345 ---


--- page 346 ---


--- page 347 ---
31-57 B Street TDM Plan | Report

B Background Assessment

Introduction

The City of San Mateo has commissioned Steer to develop a Transportation Demand Management
(TDM) Plan for the 1% & B (31-57 South B Street) project site to reduce trips generated by the
project. The project proposes construction of a four-story mixed-use building located on the block
bounded by South B Street, 1°‘ Avenue, and Transit Center Way. The project is being developed by
Harvest Properties (referred to as “the developer” or “Harvest Properties” throughout this
document).

The TDM Plan development begins with a thorough assessment of the site, including existing and
planned conditions, which is recorded in a Background Assessment document. A combination of
desktop-based research and analysis, review of available site plans and renderings, and study of
planned developments are utilized in establishing our understanding of the site conditions. Insight
from the City and developer team has also been incorporated into this document.

The Background Assessment details the following aspects of the site and project:

Project Description
Existing Infrastructure
Nearby Attractions
Available TDM Services

steer May 2024 | 34


--- page 348 ---


--- page 349 ---
31-57 B Street TDM Plan | Report

Figure 11. City of San Mateo Zoning Map

R1A- One Family Dwelling “A”
| _—«R1B- One Family Dwelling “B*

R1C- One Family Dwelling "C*
|) R2- Two Family Dwellings

R3- Multiple Family Dwellings

(Med. Density)

Ré4- Multiple Family Dwellings

R5- Multiple Family Dwellings
(High Density)

R6-D- Multiple Family Dwellings
Downtown

A- Agricultural

‘SC- Senior Citizen Overlay
/R- Residential Overlay District
-D- Downtown Residential

{~~} San Mateo City Limits
A San Francisco Bay & Lagoon
[ ] Assessor Parcels

Source: City of San Mateo 2022

The project site allows for a maximum FAR of 3.0 and an allowable height of up to 55 feet. Table
14 compares additional details of the project site’s current use and proposed uses.

Table 14. Proposed Project Attributes

Current Proposed

Two one-story commercial One four-story mixed-use
buildings: Building 1 (57 S B St) building
and Building 2 (43 S B St)

Description

Square Footage 9,336 sq. ft. gross building area 41,190 sq. ft. proposed building
area, including office, restaurant
and/or retail uses

Zoning Designation CBD - Central Business District CBD - Central Business District

steer May 2024 | 36


--- page 350 ---
31-57 B Street TDM Plan | Report

The project will provide 6 short-term bicycle spaces and 18 long-term bicycle spaces for both
office and commercial (retail/restaurant) uses.

Existing Infrastructure
Road Network

The project site is located on the city block bounded by 1*t Avenue, South B Street, and Transit
Center Way. As displayed in Figure 2, the site is surrounded by:

e Collector streets — 1°t Avenue and South B Street
e Local — Transit Center Way

Figure 12. Street Network

STREET CLASSIFICATION

Freeway
Arterial
Collector
Local

Bay Meadows II

Railroad

13

° San Mateo City Limits

Source: City of San Mateo Public Works

From the site drivers can quickly reach Highway 101 and continue onwards to East Bay
communities via Highway 92 and the San Mateo-Hayward Bridge. Continuing north on Highway
101 and the Bayshore Freeway connects drivers to San Francisco, Hayward, Palo Alto, and
Mountain View within 20 minutes. Figure 3 shows the 20-minute driving sheds from the project
site in both rush hour and free flow time.

steer May 2024 | 37


--- page 351 ---
31-57 B Street TDM Plan | Report

Figure 13. 20 Minute Car Shed for 31-57 South B Street.

Source: WalkScore.com

The intersections at both corners of the project site are collector streets. The intersection of South
B Street and 1%* Avenue was reviewed as part of the San Mateo Existing Conditions Circulation
Report, and revealed that the intersections see a reasonably consistent traffic flow. They both
maintain a “B” level of service (LOS) in the AM and PM hours.

Table 15. Levels of Service for B Street and 1st Avenue

Signalized Intersection Peak-Hour Levels of Service

Year 2018 Conditions
AM Peak Hour PM Peak Hour
Delay LOS Delay LOS
B Street and 1°t Avenue 10.3 B 10.4 B

Sources: San Mateo Existing Conditions Circulation Report (2019)
Bicycle Infrastructure

The site’s topography, street network, and its location in the center of Downtown San Mateo
make this area conducive to pedestrian and bicycle access. The site is located at the northern end
of the Downtown B Street Pedestrian Mall. The walkability website Walkscore.com gives the site a
99/100 score for walking, which they classify as “Walker’s Paradise — daily errands do not require a
car.” The walkshed for the project area is seen in Figure 4.

Presently, there exist the following bicycle facilities nearby / adjacent to the project site:

e a Class Ill facility on South B Street,
e aClass II bike lane on 1° Ave.

steer May 2024 | 38


--- page 352 ---
31-57 B Street TDM Plan | Report

The bike route on South B Street continue via 5" Ave to a bike lane on South Delaware Street,
creating multiple access opportunities for cyclists.

In the future, there are plans to develop additional bike lanes and boulevards nearby / adjacent to
the project site (Figure 5 and Table 3).

Figure 14. 20-minute pedestrian shed for 31-57 South B Street.

NORTH CENTRAL

Source: WalkScore.com

steer May 2024 | 39


--- page 353 ---
31-57 B Street TDM Plan | Report

Figure 15. Planned Bicycle Network

P, d

ropose &) Caltrain Stations
=== Shared Use Path ail Lines
=== Separated Bike Lane Parks A
=== Buffered Bike Lane Scale
«== Bike Lane Water

~ jean © Intersection Treatments

«a= Bike Route Requiring further study

Source: San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan 2020

As displayed in Figure 6, 1*t Avenue and South B Street are classified as “High Stress” streets by the
April 2020 San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan, making the streets suited for more experienced cyclists.
The streets are still in a high bicycle connectivity area, making cycling appealing in the area
generally.

steer May 2024 | 40


--- page 354 ---
31-57 B Street TDM Plan | Report

Figure 16. Level of Stress

Level of Traffic Stress - Bicycle Facilities

Transit Other Bicycle Level of Traffic Stess
—— Rail Lines Parks (All Streets)
§@) Caltrain Stations {—) Schools —— Low Stress A
(—) Water —— High Stress

Source: San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan 2020

BikeLink operates multiple on-demand bike lockers located at nearby Caltrain stations. BikeLink
allows bicyclists to securely store their bikes in lockers using a stored-value card that can be
purchased online or at nearby vendors. There are 24 lockers at the Downtown San Mateo Caltrain
station. Additionally, four free-to-use public bike repair stations are located within walking
distance of the project site.

City of San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan

The 2020 Bicycle Master Plan was adopted by the City Council on April 6, 2020 and serves as a
blueprint for expanding and improving the San Mateo bicycle and mobility network in the coming
years. The Plan includes three recommendations relevant to the 1*t & B project site, all of which
are considered ‘high priority’ projects:

Table 16. Planned Bicycle Facilities

Bicycle Facility Distance to Project Site

B Street Bike Boulevard: Railroad Avenue (West) and Baldwin Avenue. 164 ft

steer May 2024 | 41


--- page 355 ---


--- page 356 ---


--- page 357 ---


--- page 358 ---


--- page 359 ---
31-57 B Street TDM Plan | Report

*Indicates assigned schools

San Mateo Safe Routes to School

San Mateo County Safe Routes to School (SRTS) is a program of San Mateo County that

LEAD Elementary School 1.7
Aragon High 1.7
*Laurel Elementary School 3.2
*Abbott Middle School 3.8

encourages and enables school age children to walk and bike to school. SRTS is intended to reduce
school-travel related congestion and emissions around schools, as well as improve health and
wellness through physical activity. The program is led and implemented by volunteers, often

parents and PTA members.

The project site is within the San Mateo-Foster School district and has been zoned for Laurel
Elementary (K-5) and Abbott Middle School (6-8) — both of which are ~3 miles from the project
site. These schools are included in the County’s SRTS program. Figure 9 shows the scope of this
Safe Routes to School program within a half-mile radius, including suggested walking and biking

routes to Laurel Elementary School and Abbott Middle School.

Figure 17: Safe Routes to School

N

0 375750 1,500

information on walking ad biking to schoo, vst the District webpage at

Forturther
hep2/wwwsmick12caus Wellness
A tywide bike plans aso avaliable for download a

Source: City of San Mateo — Safe Routes to School

Parks

There are five parks located within a one-mile walking distance of the project site.

steer

May 2024 | 46


--- page 360 ---


--- page 361 ---
31-57 B Street TDM Plan | Report

Education Bachelor’s degree or higher

Households Renter-Occupied Housing Units

Number of households 1,816

Persons per household 2.2

Median household income $96,250

Race White alone 37%
Asian alone 20%
Hispanic or Latino 30%
Black or African American 3%
Mixed 10%

Languages Speaks English only 47.5%

spoken Speaks a language other than English: Spanish 30.5%
Speaks a language other than English: Indo-European Languages 8.5%

Speaks a language other than English: Asian and Pacific Island Languages 13%"?

Commute Outlook

The data from ACS 2021 indicates that 59% of people that live within the census tract 6063 drive
alone to work, this is a 13% decrease in drive alone rates from 2019. The data also reports that
13% of the population carpool to work and 9% take public transit, while 13% work from home. Of
those that commute to work, the mean travel time is 23.4 minutes, a reduction in average
commute time from 2019 (27.6 minutes). Commuting patterns have been impacted by the
pandemic however and may be in flux for some time as businesses gradually return to normal.
Post-pandemic scenarios might produce new commuting patterns as more organizations
implement hybrid and flexible working habits.

Figure 18: Commute Mode Share

59%!

13%1 aay 13%T
9% 4y%t aogt
0, (0)
Mi °° ......  ”
Drovealone Carpooled Publictransit Bicycle Walked Other Worked at
home

Source: 2021 American Community Survey (ACS)

steer May 2024 | 48


--- page 362 ---


--- page 363 ---
31-57 B Street TDM Plan | Report

Figure 19: Inflow and Outflow

Source: U.S Census Bureau, Center for Economic Studies
Available TDM Services

Commute.org Services

Commute.org is San Mateo County’s Transportation Demand Management Agency. Their
resources are available to all residents and employees in the County. As such, the residents and
employees of the project site will be able to take advantage of TDM resources curated for those
commuting within the County and in the surrounding areas. The Commute.org website serves as a
regional clearinghouse for all transportation and commuting-related information. They also
provide the following services:

Try Transit Incentives: Commute.org provides a free ‘try transit’ program that allows
individuals to request free tickets for the transit option that works best for them.

Carpool Incentives: Commuters who use Waze Carpool or Scoop are eligible to earn gift cards
worth up to $100.

Vanpool Incentives: Drivers of a new vanpool can earn a $500 reward, and vanpool riders can
be reimbursed $100/month of their costs for up to three months.

Bike Education: Free bike safety workshops and bike marketing materials are available to
residents and commuters. These are scheduled upon request and are available to employers
and other sites, including residential properties, within San Mateo County. They can be 60, 75,
or 90 minutes in length depending on what is ideal for the requesting party and include time
for Q&A.

Bike Incentives: Commute.org currently provides commuters who live or work in San Mateo
County with incentives worth between $25 to $100 for biking to work. To participate in the
program, bike commuters must track their work commutes using the Strava app. The rides are

steer May 2024 | 50


--- page 364 ---


--- page 365 ---


--- page 366 ---


--- page 367 ---


--- page 368 ---


--- page 369 ---


--- page 370 ---


--- page 371 ---


--- page 372 ---
steer

TEM C,
oe hn,

$
Sz
DNV:GL

ISO 9001:2015

“

now?


--- page 373 ---


--- page 374 ---


--- page 375 ---
Steve Golden

From: John Thompson

Sent: Tuesday, July 9, 2024 5:05 PM

To:

Cc: Steve Golden; ; Babak Kaderi; Jason
Hallare

Subject: RE: Review of 31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project, Initial Study and Mitigated

Negative Declaration

Hi Peter,

Thank you for reaching out and providing questions to the city regarding the 31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use
Project. See below for the City’s response:

a. The developer is responsible for the curb extension and the plans include the bus stop dimensions and
maneuverability. The developer is not responsible for implementing the recommended Samtrans transit
features from the Transportation Impact Analysis. There will be a condition of approval stating that this
development shall not preclude future implementation of the mentioned transit features (bus shelter,
shade structure, real-time arrival information) on 1* Ave.

b. The conceptual street improvement plans do call out the bike lane to remain and that section will be
repaved and restriped after project completion.

| hope this was helpful and thank you for your support.

Best regards,
John

John Thompson

Assistant Engineer | Public Works - Development
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7577 | thompson@cityofsanmateo.org

From: Peter Mandle
Sent: Sunday, July 7, 2024 1:09 PM

To: Steve Golden <sgolden@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc: Laurie Hietter

Subject: Review of 31-57 South B Street Mixed-Use Project, Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration

Hi Mr. Golden,

| would like to offer the following comments regarding the May 15, 2004, Transportation Impact Analysis (Appendix J) of
tthe Mitigated Negative Declaration for the 31-57 South B Street Project.

Consistent with Recommendation 2, Figure 11 of Transportation Impact Analysis depicts a recommended "transit
feature" consisting of benches, shade structure with lighting, and real-time arrival information. Figure 11 also shows a
“curb extension” which creates a bus pull-out lane adjacent to the bus stop, which is reported to be consistent with the
City’s Pedestrian Design Guidelines. The cover of the Project Plans and Figure A2.0 of the Project Plans also depict the
curb extension and bus pull-out lane, but do not depict the bus shelter or existing bike lane.

| support both the transit feature and curb extension.


--- page 376 ---


--- page 377 ---


--- page 378 ---


--- page 379 ---


--- page 380 ---
31-57 South B Street
Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration
The Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration for the project cannot be directly 
incorporated into the agenda packet due to file size limitations and other technical 
difficulties.  The Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration for the project can be found 
on the following webpage under the “CEQA Documents” heading:
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4690
If you need further assistance viewing the documents, please contact Steve Golden, 
Principal Planner, at SGolden@cityofsanmateo.org or (650) 522-7215.

--- page 381 ---
ERENT DAVID J. POWERS
ais

Memorandum
Date July 22, 2024
To Steve Golden, Principal Planner, City of San Mateo
From Maria Kisyova, Project Manager, David J. Powers & Associates, Inc.

Akoni Danielsen, Principal Project Manager, David J. Powers & Associates, Inc.

Subject 31-57 South B Street (PA-2022-089) IS/MND — Responses to Public Comments

This memo is prepared in response to public comments received by Laurie Watanuki and Laurie
Hietter on July 15, 2024 regarding the 31-57 South B Street Project Initial Study and Mitigated
Negative Declaration (IS/MND) circulated between June 24, 2024 to July 15, 2024. The public
comments are contained in the Agenda Report, Attachment 9 along with other general public
comments.

A. Laurie Watanuki

Comment A.1: Appendix A — Air Quality and Health Risk Assessment — In Figure 02, this area covers
Tilton Street to 10" Avenue, S Idaho to El Camino Real. This map includes residential neighborhoods
as well. The Hauling Route shown in Figure 01 in green goes from First Avenue to Delaware and
stops. Where does the hauling route continue to?

Response A.1: Figure 1 in the Air Quality and Health Risk Assessment (Appendix A to
the IS/MND) shows a localized picture of the haul route leaving the project site,
going northeast along 1° Street, and turning right onto South Delaware Street. The
haul route continues onto 2" Avenue, South Fremont Street, and 4* Avenue to
reach US 101 South, and continues on CA 92 East and I-880 North to San Leandro.
This comment does not question the adequacy of, or require text revisions to, the
IS/MND.

Comment A.2: The report mentioned 2 other projects: 435 E 4° Avenue and Block 21. There are
other projects which may be in construction which should be added to this list. These include:
Nazareth Vista, 477- 9'* Avenue, and Lane Partners Draegers Site — 222 East 4'° Avenue, Gateway
Terrace — 222 S Fremont, and Fremont Terrace — 200 S Fremont. These projects will add more
cumulative air quality issues and large truck impacts down residential 3 and 4** Avenues and the
surrounding residential streets. There are also the trucks from S Amphlett which come down 5*"
Avenue to S Humboldt which will add to the air quality and vibration impacts. These streets are in
Equity Priority Neighborhoods. To reduce these adverse environmental impacts for residents, we


--- page 382 ---


--- page 383 ---


--- page 384 ---


--- page 385 ---


--- page 386 ---


--- page 387 ---


--- page 388 ---


--- page 389 ---


--- page 390 ---
Steve Golden

From: Vikas Maturi

Sent: Monday, July 22, 2024 2:20 AM

To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission @cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Support new homes at ist and B!

San Mateo San Mateo Planning Commission,
Members of the Planning Commission,

I'm reaching out today to express my support for the new housing proposal for 1st and B in

tandem with the 100% affordable Bespoke project.

71 100% affordable new homes, office and retail space, and a dedicated space for Self-Help

for the Elderly, all of which are desperately needed in the community.

The design will enhance the vibrancy of the surrounding residential area while complimenting

the neighborhood's current layout and architecture.

| also commend the project team for gathering significant community feedback throughout the
process and making adjustments while delivering 100% affordable housing to a neighborhood

in need of more housing.

Please approve this project without delay!
Vikas Maturi

Le
Poe

San Mateo, California 94402


--- page 391 ---


--- page 392 ---


--- page 393 ---


--- page 394 ---


--- page 395 ---
San Mateo, California 94401


--- page 396 ---


--- page 397 ---
Please approve this project without delay!
Emily Morris
as
Pe

San Mateo, California 94401


--- page 398 ---


--- page 399 ---
Anthony Lazarus
Redwood City

ANTHONY LAZARUS



--- page 400 ---


--- page 401 ---


--- page 402 ---


--- page 403 ---
1032 Oak Street
San Francisco, California 94117


--- page 404 ---
Steve Golden

From: Manira Sandhir

Sent: Tuesday, July 23, 2024 8:14 AM

To: Steve Golden

Ce: Ashley Snodgrass

Subject: FW: Support for Proposed Project at 1st & B

Public comment

From: Reisman, Richard [nn >

Sent: Tuesday, July 23, 2024 8:07 AM

To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo)
<CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: Support for Proposed Project at 1st & B

Greetings,

| support and recommend unanimous approval for the referenced/proposed office building project. |
spoke in the Council Chamber a while ago in support of not requiring the project to include retail at the
bottom. Thankfully (and not necessarily because of my comments), it is what it is today. | would also
speak tonight to different points but a schedule commitment prevents me being there in

person. Thank you for the acceptance of this email.

The City and the Developer have done an inspiring job refining the project to be better than anything
else | can imagine on that site. In particular, the City requested and the applicant refined the design
from purely modern to relate to older structures (historic) that contribute so much the overall fabric of
downtown.

And what an upgrade the tall entry feature is! It transfers what was a tired, unnoticed corner to provide
everyone with a perfectly scaled feature near our train station/corner of downtown. Despite all the
work on the part of the City and the applicant, this project will seem like it has and always should have
been there.

Great work to all, | so look forward to this project being completed and vibrantly used.

Respectfully submitted,

Richard (resident of San Mateo)

Richard C Reisman

Director National Land & Redevelopment Division
First Vice President Investments

Follow us on: lin} “


--- page 405 ---


--- page 406 ---
Redwood City, California 94063


--- page 407 ---


--- page 408 ---


--- page 409 ---
555 Montgomery Street, Suite 720

, on San Francisco, CA 941i
COALITION infog@housingactioncoalition.org
housingactioncoalition.org
June 20, 2024
To Whom it May Concern,

The Housing Action Coalition (HAC) is pleased to endorse Harvest Properties, Inc. & Prometheus Real
Estate Group, Inc.’s Ist and B project. After a detailed presentation, HAC’s Project Review Committee
has determined this project exceeds our high standards in addressing the regional housing shortage,
affordability, and displacement crisis.

Our committee commends the project for its commercial support for affordable housing. The 42,000 sq ft
commercial office and ground floor retail project will provide $1.2 million in linkage fees for affordable
housing in tandem with its partnering development Bespoke which will provide 100% affordable housing
in the area.

Our committee was impressed by the collaborative efforts the project team has made to work with the
City and the Community to build a project that will help foster a more vibrant, communal, and
transit-oriented neighborhood. Through community feedback and outreach, the project team has improved
the design to provide a development that not only fits into the present project site but also updates it with
the use of CLT building materials and design. The project will widen B Street sidewalks along the project
by more than 5 ft, implementing pedestrian guidelines that promote walkability and access. Utilizing
urban plaza design, the project team thoughtfully designed outdoor spaces not just for the building
occupants, but also for the public in massing breaks and retail spill out zones.

Our committee was impressed with the project’s decision for zero onsite parking to promote the
utilization of other modes of transit. To support this, the project will provide 24 bike parking spots, and
preferential short term parking for carpools while participating in San Mateo’s local TMA and
Commute.org carpool/vanpool program.

The committee especially commends the project for its premier dedication to the principles of
environmentally conscious design and principles. The project is targeting the use of mass timber
construction in lieu of the more typical and less environmentally friendly concrete or steel. The project
includes roof solar and is targeting LEED Gold certification.

Overall, the committee is pleased to support this project. With its commitment to creating more dense and
affordable homes, and environmental sustainability, lst and B is a great example of a commercial project

that supports affordable housing development and aims to address our state’s housing crisis.

Sincerely,

Corey Smith, Executive Director


--- page 410 ---


--- page 411 ---
JO ALID

JUuaWJedag Juawdojarag AunWwwo;
JOUUP|d |EdIDNUld ‘UaPjOD aAa1S

707 ‘EZ Aine
BSULIEDH JIGNd UOISSIWIWOZ SUlUUe]d

(680-7Z07-Vd)
SUIPIING Sd1JJO/|eldsewWWWo7 AJO}S-iNOJ

193J1S @ YINOS /S-TE



--- page 412 ---
ye a1/GQNd 9a}IS-UO passnosiq e
vzoc Aienuer uo pjay suljaa|/\| «
DO}IWWO) SMY JIAID

sjeluayei\| SNopsezeH ‘UO!JeIGIA pue ASION ‘Bes ‘Ayjeno
JI ‘SAdNOSAY |eININD Pue IJOISIH :salpnys jedNUYI2]

MAIAdJ |EJUDLWIUOJIAUZ

USISAP SUIPJING PAUljay

CCOC ASQUWISAON U! Polly «
uoljesjddy suiuuejd |eEWIO, «

SUIPJING Bd1YJO/|elNsaWIWWOD JO} SUe|C [eNJdsdUOD PeMalAdy
JOISIG SSAUISNg |e4}UBD O} UO!EIIISSeE|D SUIUOZ PAMaIADY
COC ‘OT Ae — uolssas Apnis «
uolzedddy-a1d «

JO ALID

yndu] a1\qNd

SjudWa}}I}U
uoldi9saq paloid
UOI}E907

Asoysiy Pafoid

QNNOYDAOVE
1OAfOUd



--- page 413 ---
ok ee +2 el airy rs
Ves ie <> UmoumMoG.

LIE. eG 4S; SB
Resets. NR a ee ;
i}

a = ; See ® . ae & a a
S RAHI IEC 2k r Si . “ Fy, . ‘a +.

kt Za ax S Waits pails NW V i

— Z. Re’ a

AD AN oe), teen,

se1eo)

>

ra Mayuay ysis

Ye <a. |

a

:
‘ Xu e

yndu| a1qQNd
SjUdWA]}I}UR
uolqdiuoseg paloid
uo1}e907

AJOYSIH Palosg

QNNOYONOVE
1OAfOUd


--- page 414 ---
OALVW NVS SO ALID

adejuUod, [le}ay pauinbay = SSS coer
Ue|d aly UMOJUMOG - ~_ —— ne

JUSISH XeIN 14 SS /YVIO'E «
JOIISIG SSOUISNG JeE4JU9") e af
SUIUOZ oh

3407 |!e]3ay UMOJUMOG

Of£0Z UEPld jJe40UIDDH -

(sasae ZE'0) 4SLZB‘ET

sjaoued JNO} JO S}SISUOD ays JalOld
Ras

J2911S @ YINOS /S-TE :SSOAPPY » May

Ss .


--- page 415 ---
OALVW NVS SO ALID



--- page 416 ---
Saad} |EUOINppe py BuNue|d
J9O1IS js. Fuole Saas} € BuIAIaSaId «
S891] 18911

sezejq Asquy 3119Nd

SJEMSSOID AUIIGISIA Y3IH_

IS g YyNOS Bugle ,7-,TT O} ,,9-,6
oAV ysL suoje uD VT O} aD ob. hd

SJEMSSOJD pue S}]eEMapIS

SOITINC4 JOMOYUS
+ WOOY 2x!1G PAINIIS - JOO|4 ISUI4

(12303 7Z) Sunjsedg apArig

991JJO JSOOO'IES «

queuneysas/|!€184 JSOOO‘S~ «
"yy ‘bs OVT'Tr seas 100}4 [e301
JSOOE’G ‘SSulpjing SunNsixa ys!jowag

JNN3AV LSt

dS 021 24
e_NidLOOJ ONIGTING G3SOdONd,

On 5

aL

rooms

133u1S 8S

f

wet0s 144
al —
$

acme I

——=\f

swe Das

OALVW NVS AO ALID

yndu] a1\qNd

SjudWa}}I}U
uondiudsag paloig
Uo1}e907

AJOYSIH Plog

QNNOYDAOVE
1OAfOUd



--- page 417 ---
JOO]4 ui PUB pe
ye save Jaddy OME :SA1I03S yyy PUL ‘pE ‘puz «

syoeqdays suipjing .

1Ys!ay aul] 33e/d ,,0-,7G ‘SA40}S INOJ «
1YSI9H »

yndu] a1\qNd

SUaWa}}I}UF

uolnduosag paloidg

UO!1e907

AJOYSIH Ploid

QNNOYDAOVE
1OAfOUd



--- page 418 ---
Uol}eJe}Iaq AANeSAN payed «

VOID SSeppy -

JUO OUI! SjadIed INO} ABIa|A «
del JAWed JAI}ZEWUD] SUISA/A -

BUIPJING ADO pue jeloJaWWOD
MalAay [e1NazIUDy pue UL} a4S «

JO ALID

yndu] a1\qNd

$}U9WI9]719U
uoldi9saq paloid
UOI}E907

AJOYSIH Plog

QNNOYDAOVE
1OAfOUd



--- page 419 ---
gs
SS

BG LLL
DOE
xy BS

syed! UO!IJINIJSUOD | e1}UI}Od

UsISOp SUIP|INg UO SJUaWLWOD (-/+) SNOLIeA e

sulyied Sulpsedad SUIIIUOD

3d} Wafloid asf Paexi|A|/SUISNOH ‘SA |eINJBWWOD

SBUIPIING I1J0SIY YUM AUIqiyedwuoy «
SJUSLUILWO) I1/qNd -

Ja}Ja|SMAaNa2 BUIUUE]d
Pp4ede|q }IS-UO «
JadedsmaNn 24} UI pausijqnd e
S}uednd90 pue ssauMO AladOld-
SNIPE "14 OOO‘T 0} BDI}ON DNGQNd «
BUIDIJON I11qQNd -«

JO ALID

yndu| 31/qNd

SjudWa}}I}U
uoldi9saq paloid
UOI}E907

AJOYSIH Plog

QNNOYDAOVE
1OAfOUd



--- page 420 ---
JO ALID

siskjeuy Uolzeyodsued]
MalAady JEJUBWUOIIAU
MalAdy USISAq

SUB] [2007]

2po)
SUIUOZ pue Ue} |eJQUaH

Me] 31e1S

NadlAa¥ ADNOd
QNV 4G09



--- page 421 ---
99} Nal|-Ul Jo JUaWAed SalINbDaJ JASUO] ON e
dojs isues} DNQnd solew
LUOJJ BJILU JJ/EU-IUO UIYYUM Sa![Ojd JO}
SJUIWAJINDaJ SUIyIeEd WNWIUILU SOAOW AY e

L602 (dV) Illa Ajquiassy -

JO ALID

siskjeuyy uolweWodsuelL

MalAady JEJUBWUOIIAU
MalAdyY USISIG
Sued |e907

9po)
BSUIUOZ PUe Ue} |eJQUaH

Me] 3321S

NadlAa¥ ADNOd
QNV 4G09



--- page 422 ---
«0-0
«0-0
«0-0
«0-0

uO SS

pamoj]|V wnwixelj

«O- O
* «9-9
«0-0
«0-0

pasodoid

wO- VS

pasodoid

gouedjUa ZuIpIng,,

Ae 49}UaD }SUeJ) eayY

(QNUaAY 4sT) WYSIY

(SuIpying JOWaIU]) Ya]

(38843$ g YINos) uol4
syoeqyas

(aul] aye/d) WYs!aH Suipling

oljey Pay J00|4

JUISIG ssauIsng jesjUaD
dd) -

3407 |1€184y UMOJUMOG
3S PUe] OEOZ Ue}d jesBUaD .

OALVW NVS AO ALID

siskjeuyy uolweWodsuelL

MalAady JEJUBWUOIIAU
MalAdyY USISIG
Sued |e907

apo)
SUIUOZ puke Ue} je1IUaH

Me] 21e1S

NadlAa¥ ADNOd
QNV 4G09



--- page 423 ---
eT

(45 OO0‘OS> 40) BUOU :9T44O ‘( JSOOD0‘G>40}) QUON {10194 5 x
juawasinbay Buljsed WNWIUI ON - £607 dv 0} Walqns,

(papeysun %0¢) (papeysun 4S 69T‘T)

4S 9Tv 4S 999'T (apes3-1y) aveds uadoO
S ST BSUPed aylg Wa] 3U07

S (syoe €) 9 BUDUEed a¥!g Wal WOYS
«xO 0 aoeds 8ulpeo] 3}ISuUO

0 BUDIed

yUUISIG SSauIsng jei1Ua) e
qd -

aJO7 j1€19y UMO]UMOG
aS PUET OFOZ UE}d JesaUaD .

JO ALID

siskjeuyy uolweWodsuelL

MalAady JEJUBWUOIIAU
MalAdyY USISIG
Sued |e907

apo)
SUIUOZ puke Ue} je1IUaH

Me] 21e1S

NadlAa¥ ADNOd
QNV 4G09



--- page 424 ---
vL

DHJeIL JEINIIYAA YUM paseys ||| SSejD —39043S g
gue] ajdAdIg palayjng || SSe|D — PNUDAY ysT
:pasodold e
gue] ajdAd1g payesedas | sse|> — 9041S g e
gue] apdAd1g pasaying || SSe|D — PNUDAY ysT
(Al SSejD) 320415 g / (II SSe]D) BNUDAY ysT :PAaPUSWIWOIDY
UR] Ja}Se|AJ BjDADIg -
SJEMSSOID APJIGISIA USIH
3991S g YINOS Bugle ,7-,TT 0} ,,9-,6

QNUDAY rT suoje u9- VE 94 .9-,L
:pasodold e

92} GT OL TT WO} SYIPIM A/EMapIs :papudsWWOI2Y «
UL] Ja}SeI\J UELISapad

PaJe-Gns aJOZ |I€}a4Y UMOJUMOG
ue}q Pal UMOJUMOG .

JO ALID

siskjeuyy uolweWodsuelL

MalAady JEJUBWUOIIAU
MalAdyY USISIG
sued [e907

9po)
BSUIUOZ PUe Ue} |eJQUaH

Me] 21e1S

NadlAa¥ ADNOd
QNV 4G09



--- page 425 ---
OALVW NVS AO ALID

siskjeuyy uolweWodsuelL

MalAdY |CEYWIWUOIIAUY
MalAay UusISag
Sue} e907

9po)
BSUIUOZ PUe Ue} |eJQUaH

Me] 21e1S

NadlAa¥ ADNOd
QNV 4G09



--- page 426 ---
siskjeuyy uolzeyodsuely

MalAay |eJUSWUOIAUY
HV 319d

MalAdy USISAG

sue} |e007

apo)
SUIUOZ pue Ue}, |esaUayH

Me] 21e1S

MdlAsd¥ ADOd
QNV 4G09



--- page 427 ---
LT

OALVW NVS AO ALID

yy N14Nd

NadlAa¥ ADNOd
QNV 4G09



--- page 428 ---
8T

WeiZ01g SUIPOdSY pue SUNOPWUOJA] UO!}ESIP|A «
UO!I}EILE}IIVG DAIWESIN Pjesij|\ -

ssulpjing Aqieau uO

SOIPAIJOE UO!INIJSUOD BU} JO SJIeAW! UOIJEIGIA Je1}U9}Od
SIIPAIJIE UO!DNIJSUOD JY} O} BNP SJDedWI ASION

‘S}JUBAJOS Pa}eULIO|YD pue sUdqJeIOIpAY WiNnajOjjed Wd}
UOIJEUILULJUOD JIOS pue Ja}JeEMpPUNOIS 0} JUDWWUOIIAUD
3} pue ‘sasn juadelpe ‘ssayJOM UO!IINIJSUOD JO BINSOAdXY

(Sqdd) sjAuaudig payeulojysAjod pue ‘(sqqq) juled paseq
-pea| ‘(SIAIDV) sjeluayew SululejUOdD-soysagse JO aseajay

S9dINOSAI JedISOjOaYIIe paling
Spuig Aso}essIW 0} SeAUWI! UO!JDNIYSUOZ
syeduy| je13U930q - Apnjs [elu] -

JO ALID

siskjeuyy uolweWodsuelL

MaIADY |C}UBWIUOJIAUY
MalAdyY USISIG
Sued |e907

9po)
BSUIUOZ PUe Ue} |eJQUaH

Me] 21e1S

NadlAa¥ ADNOd
QNV 4G09



--- page 429 ---
6T

"SS9DDV Pad/aIGg BdeINOIUY 0} S}9aI1S UBISAaq pue ‘s}yauag

uoljeyodsuel| Xe] -aig pue Saipisqns pue sasseg 8ulLeYysap!Yy

JO ysued ‘Saizyiney YOddns pue Buljjed ajdAd1q aundas ‘sauly Mau

JO} SJayxded JEUOIJELWOJU] SUOI}EIDOSSY JUBWaseUe|] UOI}eYOdsUeIL
JO 310°a}NWWO) U! ayedioiqed Ajanijoe pue JOJEUIPJOOD WIGL e}!S-UO

[UOIJINpa|J di} %GZ pasodoid —ueld WAL «
uolJNpad did} %GZ wNwiul|| - Ad!jod (Nv9/D)
SJUSLUUJ3IAOD jo uolzeIossy AjUNOD/AjID UO paseq poinboy

juaWwaseue|,\] puewiag uoleyodsuell .

Sd] 88 + MA2N 12N OS + M2N 19N OF +

QIIAIVS JO [SAV] e

UO!}235
uleJ}e5 Oaye|| US UMOJUMO JO AI! S°O UYIM - (WLOH) easy
ysued, AUjeNO-yYsiH e Ul Syafojd JO} elJa}ID BSUIUBaIIS SJaa|\| «

(LINA) PayanesL sayy aa1Yyap -

sisAjeuy uol}eyOdsuely

MalAady JEJUBWUOIIAU
MalAdy USISAaq
Sued |e907

9po)
BSUIUOZ PUe Ue} |eJQUaH

Me] 21e1S

NadlAa¥ ADNOd
QNV 4G09



--- page 430 ---
——— JO ALID

SUISNOY JO De] JO} UIBIUOT
peafloid |je4aA0 JO} Foddns

SJUDWIWO JIQNd JCEUOIPPV



--- page 431 ---
JO ALID

“SOUNSPSW UO!eSIIW JO UO!}EJUBWAI|AWI! JY} YUM [AAV] JUeDIJIUSIS-UeU}-SSo|
e 0} paonpas aq pjnom jyoafojd ay} Jo speduy! jeyUDWUOIIAUA JUeDIJIUSIS PUlJ PUe UO!JeEIeE/IaQq
VAIVESIN po.esii\\] FY} Jdope pue “j;eaouddy jo suOl}puUoy ay} 0} Yalqns pue jeAoiddy
JO} SSUIPUI4 BY} UO paseg ‘JO] DUO OU! S}O] ANOJ |aBJaW 0} del) jaWed VAI}e}Ua] BUIIS/
pue }aa11S g YINOS /G-TE }e BUIP|ING jeldJaWWOD PUe BdIJJO AJOJS-1NOJ Mau e JO UO!ONIISUOD

QU} JO} (YVdS) MaIASY JesnyoeWYIIy pue Ue|g 23S BY} BAOJdde 0} UOI|NjJOSeYy e \dopy

UOIEPUSLUWOIIY |eIS



--- page 432 ---
——— JO ALID

noA yueuL



--- page 433 ---
JO ALID

"QIUSISAP JIU} JO IOPAIIG JUaWUdO|anaq

AJUNWWOZ ay} JO UO!DeYSIZeS BY} 0} AUHIGISIA SJ BONpa|L

O} JOJO jes}N|U JO yUep e Ul pazUled aq jJEYS SMOPUIM aU} pUulyaq
|JAMIIEYS BUY ‘JEM JOII9}X9 BU} UO paljeysu! JOU SI We DqQnd au} JI e

GO# UO!IPUOD JO UO!EIIJIPO|\| pasodod



--- page 434 ---
c
2

0

a!

£

Fe) eset > Le =
<

5

ca

og

a |.

1 2

oN

oo >

7 |

—-_-=

1s} & B- DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO

HARVEST PROPERTIES & PROMETHEUS REAL ESTATE


--- page 435 ---
JJEJOIJOJSACT~ ¢
BI1HJO JO JSHOGT~
:]eluauwo0s)
Ajsap]y ay} JO} djay
$125 0} payesipap JsOOS'p~
A|pualay
Ajlwej se payeusisap syiun TZ e
:(a]qepsosye |e) jeuapisay
BUIP|ING asn-paxiW js1GEZ
:(49quWaj}das) ayodsag

!EJO1 JS 49.
BI1jJO JS9EW
juawdojanap asn-paxiw Js {Zp

(Aepol) @ 8 ysT

sa!t!itaadoadd

LSAAYVH

wv

———="

ivzOd Ul NOA 0} sulwoy)


--- page 436 ---


--- page 437 ---


--- page 438 ---
liPZ WES —

Wjddnsiaao pauotysp{-pjO poos $1 ADpO] Jos aa, an JOY AL,, Sebo
shueyo ebeiaraq yg poo saceds JOOpING JUEIGIA - S}JISSE Ps9jelUSJopPIpPUN JAX powluoy oO
8°

ft

mn

Yor

(%6ZL) peaids
aoueWWOyed

Yoo

=

o

ow

og

ue

o

aunyny Zz

s

*0 &

(%p) peas)“  o

aoueuUoped o

i} . jeuosiy | %Z =

=

samuawe AWeEND ainpepyaesuBbisapabeyui, S]OSSEP PesjJPlUslojig v 4
OF

éBbunenusiayip sey .
%9

aI] SJUBWIGOJBAVP JOJ SUIMO]|e — COjPABPaJ 0} S9DIHO ajajOsqo AjjeEuONIUNJ MO||e ‘g *9 ,<T aI] ‘Sjasse Ayjenb Jo JUsWdO|aABq— se
JaAB}] BWeS BU} UIYIM JO ssep B8UIP|INg papei8dn Ue 0} payndaxa Udaq aAeY Sasea| UO!}EIOjAI JO %GGe

sa}ed [|EMaUaI MO Ajjed1JO}SIY 0} pa] sey Ayjenb 02 4YsI|4

Sjasse JapjO JO JEU} UCY} JAMO] %OZ Je 4932] JO GTOT U! YING sjasse ul sayeu ADUeDeA ‘AIJEUOIIEN se

Uuo!}diosge au aAI}eESau aAey aie AJaAIap JO
sseaA JAYIO IV ‘GT-GIAOD B0uls UO!}dOSge aU JO Joa} DeNbs UOI|IW GET UY} JaJea1d aAeY Ja]e Pue STOZ HIN syasse ‘AjJEUOeN

AVJENH OF IYS!|4 — g2d1¥4O AYM



--- page 439 ---
“panasal siyBy |ly “Sul ‘gl BESET Gueq sauor gznz@ | 21

Tir)

(ADUBSeA Je}O] }Saye06 YM sjesse Aq payues) AJOJUaAUI! Soyo Jo sueyS UP SESE Teens

00 b S56 O06 SB 08 SL oOL 59 09 oS %00S ST oO SE OE SG Oe SL WoOh eo oO

ee sete eerteng wecntur ctr TTT LT] /
ADUBDBA B91),0 JE}O} JO 99g JAA ssdWwos sHulpjing jo %,0¢
Xe xf %z

ha
ASUBDEA AdI[jO [e}O 9 Jaro BSUdWOd SBUIPIING Jo 4
aoeds Juesea ou ancy sBulpling Jo %EE ere Pee

%oOL

oe |

adeds soljjo JUBBA Jo seus

orb
YoOL

AOUBOBA '§'f) [E}O} JO %HZL AAU asLdWOD SBUIpIING eo1YO Jo %]

AOUBORA “S'fF) 210} JO aueys Aq UoNeUaDUOD ADUBDBA BIO Gl

JOYJEW SIO ||EJOAO By} JO JUBLUBAS |jeWS e Ul pa}es}UBSDUOD si AOQUBDeA

S]ASSE BIIJO SUIWNOLJad JSIOM JY} Be SOGET asOJaq pue ‘SO/ ET ‘SOS6T AY} UI YING JONpoOlg se

ADUBDEA DUI JO %OG SPJOY R%OE ‘ADUCIEA SH! JO %/T SPlOy AsOPUSAU! BINJJOJO%T

ADURIEA AIIJIO - E99144O AUM


--- page 440 ---
ulesyjed Bule4
papnyoul aq 0} pasodoud yy a1qNd
("UI
3POd JAAO %OOPH) [2301 4S VL'V »
SILA] JO 4S BTR‘Z «
eze|d 4S ZEG Sapnjou]
(‘UILU 3pOd 4aAO
YOST) J00|4 punos 45 9/9‘T «
‘aaeds uado
J29IIS G79 BNUAAY 4.T ‘ade WUOIY [1e}ay
ONUDAY ysT
Suole GY 78 J9AII1S g Buoje psepuejys
OV ULld JAaISEIA\| Pad SJaa\\| «
(aseasOUl %OOT) ,OT :4IPIM ALeEMapls
ujesy]eD BUIZUOI [EM IAID JO JeAOW AY

39917S g :ade}UOI, j!eyaY
0197 :adeds uado
y943S qd UO ,OT-.6 :YIPIM AEMapls

oale|\| UeS UMO]UMOG
ulesyeD oajzey| ues

‘SUOI}IPUO7D

:SUOI}IPUOD

acbos1Sssi15 paleAiioy aBeqweaJy |leIeH BZB|q JauWI0D

pasodold

sunsixy

S|EALUY
Jofe|

aSf) B SUIUUe]d 3311S — g BIST


--- page 441 ---
ANUDAY 3sT
Ajaniyesau Suldedspue| ou + aysie asp Aq

aioos)

paydnisajqu! yaass g Suoje asequo4} [!e}9y :

payon.asqo UMOJUMOP 0} JOPI09 MAl/ DAY ysE SUOE aBeyUoI |!e}94 |EWIUL IA)

asejuol4 ules}eD

UO!I}IPUOD SUIISIXA  B ysT


--- page 442 ---
Zuljleyap $,3ulpjing auj 4o UMO}UMOP du} U! ade|d

jSa4 JY} YUM ajeds JO NO S| BUeYIBAC 40 }NO Sj9a} BLUINJOA paj}sau UJapo|A|

JOINTS GB AAV ysT JO JBUIOD

SUIJQPUSY PIO — © Bis


--- page 443 ---
SJOOP}NO BUIWOD SJOLa}U! BY} JO UOISUd}X—A Ue eze|d ajqissaode Ajaqnd *€
sJajjng suidedspue] jeuoippe YUM paziwoud Ayjepow ueljsapad *Z

jNOYsNosY} paziiin ajAys UBIsap |eUOIUpPeIL “T

:SYIYS 21qeI0N

TITS FF OAV ysT JO JOUIOD

AVION dg ULLIWSAPAd BY UBISIG — g BxT


--- page 444 ---
Ayyeuolouny pue Ayjiqeuleysns W4a}-3u0| Ul a8pa 3ulqINd pue JUedIJUBIS AjjesnyoapyIe ‘BUIP|ING JAaqUUI} SSELU }SII} S,OdJE] UES JAAI]AG =e

JeAlu4ue pue asodind ‘aoejd Jo asuas e Buljeas9 ‘UlesyeD pue BUIPJING au) UdaMjaq AemAay|e BY} 0} 99.05 Ule|\| PUDIX 0} ALD BU} YM JOM 0} SN

Jo} Aytunyioddo anbiun e syuasaid pue UMO}UMOG aJ!}Ua BY} JOJ DUO} DU} S}aS JOdAP UleszYeD BY} JO JUOIJ Ul BU JaQ JNUOG JO UO!}eE90] JUDUIWOJd BUL ee

:saynqujziy usIsag

ALIS ALIS0 ALNNOG

1331S GNZ

13301S 1SL YLND LISNVGL

ae Sees eee eS
LHOISH ONIGTNG

ISEIUOIY JOOS Y

AydsesalH USISAG — g 8 asT


--- page 445 ---
Jaquil} sseu pasodxa ‘juoJjasOjJs patueij-yJep ‘suljieyap yIUG a}ed JU] se
[12291 D1VOJSIY 0} UDHYJEY SJUOJJIIO}JS [E94 PSZIENpIAIpU] =e
Aepoy age} [12394 S IAS LQ Ul Sulssiw due Jey} SSULIAJO paway} elUJOJI|ED UBYVON ‘pasnsoj-Ajjeso] punose Bullwuwessoid jleJas 9Yy}Z9}eNND pues e

:sanquiiy usisaq

&
in)

REL LB)

[1€49a 499445 Ud

AJIJElIIEW BY [!E19Y — g 3 asT


--- page 446 ---
Ost VAP NV SENWOLNM OC

SLSt

SJOII9}U| 99 ODPIA —G BVisl



--- page 447 ---
1st & B — Addressing Caltrain

1st Avenue Frontage

Wt



--- page 448 ---
1st & B — Addressing Caltrain

Caltrain Frontage
Notable Shifts:

3. Planting immediately visible from Caltrain station

2. Ground floor setback

1. CMU wall removal


--- page 449 ---
Te

—_—_— «$s
ki 2
Ba

uy /M a3equosy ulesyyeD

WV INGNd — Biasl


--- page 450 ---
9|I] VIESOl/]
‘TH 1d99uU07

WV INGNd — Biasl


--- page 451 ---
Jaxady pue Jajjan 2/O9IN :sisiuy jeiquayod

SPIMSUNIQ-BpILS-SWEBSp/LUOD GUNISUNSUE &

Wa N

-

MOUISNNYS VOIHS + SWiVaa

100J- Bune y/eoue1is8J-AUnWWOoWOo LOFeOBuGW,/" sc)

JEIN IA
‘(# 1d99U07

WV INGNd — Biasl


--- page 452 ---


--- page 453 ---
inoA yueuL ‘ul

enya



--- page 454 ---
SHH

ZHU

i = q : :
*
* |

N30 “TANVd IWLAW
: oe W39
3) V10 YO ‘UALSW1d LNA
| ‘GOOM d3SO0dx4
YsLlX4
“ONIGQVT9 YO!

PALO S[ELIIIEW — © BVisl



--- page 455 ---
yess
SSajaWl} e JO SAdUaIIadxa ajqesOWaUW
a}ea49 pue ‘s}dadu0d puensuer
uoidweyd ‘seap! pjog aduenpe ‘pjiom
jeunjzeu ay} Jo diuspsemays aoeuquy

aZlUdsiayse|\| Aq sea, JU} JO WIJ UBISAG
ueqin *g edeospue)] OZOZ-6T0Z paweNn
usisap ueqin pue ‘je ‘sujuuejd
‘ainjoayyoie adedspue| 0} pa}jIwwos

Sulaq-|jam uewny
pue ‘Aqljiqeuleysns ‘Aylu3ajUl USIsap
0} }UaW}IWWOD daap e aueys pue anje/

$10199S JIAID pue ‘Diwapede
jeluysnpul ‘ayeoyyeay ‘aduaias ‘yda} YsIY
Ul sade|d JOM BSUIUUIM-pseMe JdAI|aQG

usIsap jo
Jamod ay} ysnojy} saduatadxa pasidsul
payeasa seu MIANY ‘Sead OG JAA0 J04

_ NWO

SO9G6T 2} BDUIS EjNSU|Udg JY} UO
sSUIp|Ing JUaW ede pauMoO sey
pue oaje ues ul pasayenbpeay
S| JOULE, S,JSOAJCH

LOOZ Gus JaYIEW OA}e| UES AY} UI BAIDY

sdaquiaW AyJUNWWOD |j/e JOJ UMOJUMOG
9UY} BUIAOJA WI! 0} JUdWIWWOd
JNO jnoge a}euolssed aie pue
Oa}eW UES JO SJUAPISAJ aJe “JaAa] JaUJe,
9Y} }e SUIPNjou! ‘wed} INO Jo SI|aquay\

aoeds adiJJO pandas jISUeI}

-UuOU $0 JS QOO’SZZ BuUlde|das ‘oaleW
ues Ul Sau9e GT ssoude ‘ssaANg aWOdUI
-MO| 0} payed!Ipap %OT YUM ‘sawoy
Jada] AsZUSa OGZ UO UO!INIYSUOD JapUN

AyunWwos jes0] dy} Buljuoddns

0} yoeojdde anijaeoud pue jnjyysnoy}
e UUM aj}e}sa jeas eal Aeg Buljesado
pue 3UIUMO adUaIadxa Jo sapesagq
€00Z Ul pepuno4

pue|yeo ul paseg

YddO1SAI0 ALVLSA 1V4de GISNIOJ
ALINQAINWOD) 8 GASVd-ATIVIOT

LSAAMVH

Salquadoddg ISAaAJEH ANOGY


--- page 456 ---
AujuJ 291JJO Je!4aWWOZ — a3ejUOI4 39a415 g

—_—S-§ OD+qQvidd

a

} = il HH]

sBulJapuay MAN — GB isT


--- page 457 ---
a3eUOI4 1383911S g

SSULIQPUIY MAN — g Bisl



--- page 458 ---
JOO|4 punouy

3AV ASL

LSaAuvH JOO|q PUNOID — 4 Bast

wv



--- page 459 ---
JOO|4 pUuodaS

JOO|4 puoras — g BST



--- page 460 ---
JOOly P4LYL

a
331440 NadO

i

at ae

ABBOTYOLVAS TA

JOO] PAIYL — G BAST



--- page 461 ---
Jooj4 yyno4

331440 Nad

JOO|4 YNOY — g B4st



--- page 462 ---
8302 969
WAISAS HOOT SNICIOIE Wo SONIZWIO LNOwIIBOIS “AGONYD TALS: 3d SDNINIDO
OaLoMusae
BONYNSIS
© re 3) ae @ ANWNaL BO
SGLSY Te INBNSD ANOUFINOLS CANWEST MAYO ‘onagvo coom TE? aiid
— = RES
euawa
ry] (Cc) iS) e— (S) ONHOBHOGN
"ONOOW1O HORSES \V onze Temnnvguna menos TNH BD
SLL Wd WIYSLVN QN39317
(2) Pyerd ( ©) yer
a NOILWA313 LS¥3 - GVONTIVE = NOLLWA313 HLYON - 49078-0IN

& ioous SAN

otk —
FeO

= wy =
1 ERE
@

ia)

SUOIIEAT|I GB asT


--- page 463 ---


--- page 464 ---


--- page 465 ---


--- page 466 ---
aunjeu 0} UolaaUUOD
pue dijayysae WIeM e Sajzeao jeldayew jeunyeu joasn au, e

5110 Wpoom Aq papinoid — UOSIalag g UOSHOpY 3ISEM SS2| YIM ‘49}Se} PI}ONI3SUOD aq 0} SBUIP|ING SMO||V—«

‘sdapjing pue S1ddUIBUQ WZ1>) Aq JUaWSSassY a]DAD aj] UddYI4 AaWe}d :adINOS uonesidde souayxa jo Aiiqeinq
"suua}S48 321K9 ip J 3802 BuIpIING SjOUM 247 PUD (QOS LuMIPOd omy jaAay 349 24040) MME) WEISAS yDANBDRURS B4y Jo UOSUDALOD Z auNBLy sayenbyyea pue aulj Ul SJUeLUJOJJad poos Ajqeyseway se
ayeuu07 jeg JequUL) SSD py
" jeuajzew daal}esaUuagas AjYysiy e SI JaqUUI} Sse] =O
2 9605
ag uoqed Jaysanbas 0} Jaquul} ssew
a Jo Aqige yeanyeu ay} 0} aNnp WaysAs jein}oNI3s
s 939190) puke [39}s 0} paiedwod (d/MD)
3 ae jejuajod Suimem egos ul uo Npas %G"97
ae JO uolNpai e syuasaidas sSuIpying Jaquiiysseyy =O
%OOE
“tat Asnpur Suiping
et, 3} 0} SdayNqiu}e UOISSsIWA Jeqo|S JORGE ©
(%) 180 Bulpjing sjoum
PUD dM9 Waysds |D4N}9N435 SUOISSIWWA UOGJeD Ul UONINpay UeIIWIUSIS =e
Jaquul | Sse] JO saseyueApy ayuL
VI ‘Saulow saq ‘anuany puesd 1se9 TTT SUO!}E}S SUIBIEUD AZ YUM BUIPIING Daa ||Ve

Suldedspue| jue sISaJ-]USNOIQ se

uonedyivaD Apeay-T1aM se

109 d33140 / pue 0487 371s

UuSISaqg |eJjNaN UOqieD

s]e05 Ajqiiqeuieysns

“aSUeYO aJeEWI|D PU SUOISSIWWA UOGIeD OF SECU! AZIWIUILU pue BUIaq||aM

juedno90 adueyua Jeu} SBUIPJING ajqeuleysns ‘Ayjenb-ysiy JaAljap pue UsISap O} SI jeOs INC
éa0ejdy10M Ayyeay e dojanap am ued MOH

SOAITEIMU] SSAUIJAaM\ PUe AIqeuleyIsns

