source: packet.pdf
sha256: de154a41f8ba6c8b1a2a6a5c78502c07e60cae4f3807d9ee9eb79353f91c6593
pages: 7
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
February 6, 2025
7:30 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rob Newsom Jr.
Adam Loraine
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: February 6, 2025
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 879 0030 8150      Passcode: 378345
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Consideration for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
NEW BUSINESS
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of this item.
1.
City Council Resolution of No Confidence Position in Sheriff Christina Corpus and Call for Resignation - Adoption
Consider and take action on a proposed resolution expressing a position of no confidence in San Mateo County
Sheriff Christina Corpus and calling for her resignation.
CEQA: This proposed resolution is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
1 of 7

--- page 2 ---
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 7

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 25-9621
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Alex Khojikian on behalf of Council Member Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
MEETING DATE:
February 06, 2025 
SUBJECT:
City Council Resolution of No Confidence Position in Sheriff Christina Corpus and Call for Resignation – Adoption 
RECOMMENDATION:
Consider and take action on a proposed resolution expressing a position of no confidence in San Mateo County Sheriff 
Christina Corpus and calling for her resignation. 
BACKGROUND:
At the February 3, 2025, Regular City Council Meeting, Council Member Danielle Cwirko-Godycki requested and received 
Council approval to schedule a Special Meeting on Thursday, February 6, 2025. The purpose of this meeting is to consider 
adopting a resolution expressing the City Council’s position of no confidence in San Mateo County Sheriff Christina Corpus 
and calling for her resignation.
The proposed resolution (Attachment 1) will be presented for discussion and potential adoption at the Special Meeting.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact associated with the adoption of this proposed resolution.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This proposed resolution is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
CONTACT
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org
Christina Horrisberger, Assistant City Manager
chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org 
3 of 7

--- page 4 ---
Page 1 of 2
RESOLUTION 25-XX
CITY OF SAN MATEO, COUNTY OF SAN MATEO 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
***
RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO 
STATING THE CITY COUNCIL'S POSITION OF NO CONFIDENCE IN SHERIFF 
CHRISTINA CORPUS AND CALLING ON SHERIFF CORPUS TO RESIGN
WHEREAS, on November 13, 2024, retired Judge LaDoris Cordell released a 400-page 
independent investigation ("Report") of the Sheriff sustaining several allegations, including that 
Sheriff Corpus and her executive team have engaged in retaliation and intimidation, exceeded 
and/or abused their authority, and that the Sheriff has uttered and tested racial and homophobic 
slurs in the workplace; and
WHEREAS, the findings that were sustained in the Report do not reflect the standards that our 
community wants in their law enforcement personnel; and
WHEREAS, on November 12, 2024, shortly before the release of the investigative report 
by the San Mateo County Board of Supervisors, Sheriff Corpus ordered the arrest of Deputy 
Sheriffs Association President Carlos Tapia. District Attorney Steve Wagstaffe has cleared Deputy 
Tapia of wrongdoing, stating that "Tapia should not have been arrested;" and
WHEREAS, since Sheriff Corpus took office in January 2023, at least 106 sworn staff have 
left the agency and there has been significant turnover in the executive staff; and
WHEREAS, the Deputy Sheriffs Association, Office of Sheriffs Sergeants, and all five 
Captains in the Sheriffs Office have voted No Confidence in Sheriff Corpus and have called for 
her resignation; and
WHEREAS, public safety is of the utmost importance to our community; and
WHEREAS, the dedicated employees of the San Mateo County Sheriff’s office are vital 
partners in maintaining our local jails and courts and partnering with local law enforcement during 
major emergencies and natural disasters.  Their commitment to our community is unwavering, and we 
rely on their expertise and courage; and
WHEREAS, the recent behaviors and actions by Sheriff Corpus do not reflect the high 
standards that our community expects and deserves in their law enforcement personnel and provide 
cause for no confidence in her leadership.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the San Mateo City Council hereby states 
the City Council's position of No Confidence in Sheriff Christina Corpus and calls on Sheriff 
Corpus to resign.
REGULARLY PASSED AND ADOPTED this ___ day of ______, 2025
4 of 7

--- page 5 ---
Page 1 of 2
5 of 7

--- page 6 ---
From:
Tom Lease
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Please pass a vote of no confidence
Date:
Tuesday, February 4, 2025 8:27:25 PM
Dear Council,
I have a very close friend who reports to Cristina Corpus and is stressed out and traumatized
working under her.
It’s as bad as the speakers reported to council on February 3rd.
So far it seems only the two cities that utilize County Sheriff for police services have taken a
vote of No Confidence.
It’s  sad for me because I worked on her campaign and had high hopes but the time has come
to take action.
Tom Lease
6 of 7

--- page 7 ---
From:
Cindy
To:
City Council (San Mateo); Clerk
Subject:
Agenda Item 1 February 6, 2025 Sheriff
Date:
Thursday, February 6, 2025 3:55:42 PM
To City Council Members and Mayor New Newsom, 
I'm writing as a San Mateo resident who wants to keep my voter rights. I'm not willing
to give up my rights guaranteed in the constitution to 5 supervisors until 2029. Why
are the supervisors trying to steal voter rights and attack our sheriff?  
I'm in favor of Sheriff Corpus and appreciate the courage and strength she has shown
after these horrendous attacks against her. The private contractor report paid for by
the all democrat board of supervisors is undemocratic and appears to be against the
law. The supervisors are using taxpayer money to fund their election campaign to
remove voter rights and attack Sheriff Corpus who hasn't committed any crimes. Nor
has Sheriff Corpus been tried and able defend herself in a valid court of law. Ms.
Cordell was hired by the supervisors and so isn't an independent contractor and her
report is lacking in that she hasn't named the people making the accusations. I don't
know if these people exist or if they are trustworthy and have sworn over the bible to
tell the truth or be charged will lying. I've written several investigative reports and
reviewed many as a supervisor. This report doesn't appear to have any corroborating
evidence to substantiate the claims that are mere slanderous and retaliatory against
Sheriff Corpus.  
I'm very disappointed in the elected officials in San Mateo county who have thrown
the constituents to the side not honoring our votes and threatening to take away our
voter power of the whole county to merely 5 people. This is something that I thought
only happened in countries taken over by dictators and communists. But it's
happening here in San Mateo county too.  The democrat supervisors and their party
line supporters are using county funds to promote their party line and to ruin the
reputation of an good sheriff. Carlos Tapia was caught committing time card fraud
and yet Supervisors Mueller and Corzo defend him. Just because DA Wagstaffe
didn't choose to prosecute Tapia doesn't mean he's innocent. Just like the rapist who
raped the woman in custody in December 2024 on video and in front of other inmates
that Wagstaffe let go it doesn't mean they're not guilty. 
I would like to feel represented as other constituents would like to feel that we have a
system and a council that looks at hard facts not gossip and slander to make
decisions. 
I encourage you to give Sheriff Corpus a vote of confidence. 
Cindy McReynolds 
7 of 7