--- page 1 ---
Data Usage Protocol (DUP) for Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) Technology 
UPDATED as of August 22, 2022 
1 
 
City of San José 
 
Data Usage Protocol (DUP) for Automated License Plate Reader 
(ALPR) Technology 
 
Owning department(s): San José Police Department (SJPD) 
Department owner: Deputy Chief, Executive Officer 
 
1) Purpose 
 
Automated License Plate Readers (ALPRs) use high speed cameras to photograph vehicle 
license plates. The purpose of ALPR cameras is to improve criminal investigations1 and deter 
crime in the surrounding area.2 This Data Usage Protocol (DUP) defines for the City of San 
José’s (hereafter referred to as “City”) Police Department (“hereafter referred to as 
“Department”):  
 
1. Authorized usage of ALPR technology that complies with State and local laws;  
2. Annual reporting requirements on ALPR usage; and 
3. An ongoing avenue for public feedback on ALPR usage. 
 
This DUP is also meant to ensure that San Jose Police Department’s use of Automated License 
Plate Recognition (ALPR) technology complies with all applicable federal, state, and local laws. 
For the purposes of California law, this document serves as the “usage and privacy policy” as 
required by California Civil Code Sections 1798.29 and 1798.82. 
 
2) Authorized Uses:   
The Department shall use ALPR technology with the goal of reducing serious crime and traffic 
incidents in the long term. ALPR is meant to act as a deterrent for crime and dangerous driving 
in a neighborhood, and to support police in criminal investigations. ALPR vendors may only use 
the data if authorized by the City to act on behalf of the City. The Department and authorized 
vendors may utilize ALPR technology and any data generated only to do the following: 
 
1. Use in conjunction with any patrol or investigative function in response to the 
investigation of felony or misdemeanor crimes; 
2. Locate at-risk missing persons (including responding to Amber and Silver Alerts); 
 
1 Koper, Christopher S., and Cynthia Lum. "The impacts of large-scale license plate reader 
deployment on criminal investigations." Police Quarterly 22.3 (2019): 305-329 – 
https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/1098611119828039  
2 Koper, Christopher S., Bruce G. Taylor, and Daniel J. Woods. "A randomized test of initial and 
residual deterrence from directed patrols and use of license plate readers at crime hot 
spots." Journal of Experimental Criminology 9.2 (2013): 213-244 – 
https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11292-012-9170-z

--- page 2 ---
Data Usage Protocol (DUP) for Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) Technology 
UPDATED as of August 22, 2022 
2 
 
3. Support local and State safety departments in the identification of vehicles associated 
with  criminal investigations. Further detail on permissible sharing and coordination with 
safety departments is detailed in the “Data Sharing” section below; and 
4. Automatically initiate investigation for traffic intersection infractions through a device 
(e.g., red-light violations) if SJPD follows the requirements outlined in California Vehicle 
Code 21455.5,3 including providing notice of automated enforcement within 200 feet of 
the intersection.  
 
3) Prohibited Uses: 
ALPR technology will not be used for the following purposes: 
1. Collect data that is not within the public view. This includes any data not readily visible 
from a public area or public property; 
2. Monitor individual or group activities legally allowed in the State of California and/or 
protected by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution; 
3. Share with immigration authorities or use in the investigation of any matter related to 
immigration status of an individual; 
4. Engage in automated citations or other automated enforcement without manual review 
from SJPD staff; and 
5. Sell any data generated by ALPR to any entity. 
 
4) Operational Procedures 
The ALPR system(s) and their associated database(s) shall only be used for official law 
enforcement purposes listed in the “Authorized Uses” section. Additionally: 
1. No member of the Department shall operate, utilize and/or search ALPR systems and 
their associated equipment/database(s) without first completing Department-approved 
training and only if the operation, utilization, or searching complies with SJPD’s need to 
know/right to know protocols defined in SJPD Duty Manual section C2000 on criminal 
records and information;4 
2. Once an alert is received, the officer will make every effort to visually confirm that the 
captured license plate from the ALPR system matches the license plate of the observed 
vehicle;  
3. In all instances, before any action is taken based solely upon an ALPR alert, the officer 
will make every effort to verify the alert is still valid through the California Law 
Enforcement Telecommunications System (CLETS).  Officers will not take any action 
that restricts the freedom of any individual based solely upon an ALPR alert until an 
attempt at verification has been made; 
4. If the reason for an ALPR alert pertains to a wanted person associated with a vehicle, 
officers should attempt to visually inspect the occupant(s) of the vehicle to determine if 
he/she matches the description of the wanted individual.  Absent this verification, officers 
must have a separate legal justification to conduct a vehicle stop; 
 
3 California Vehicle Code “Offenses Relating to Traffic Devices” - 
https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/codes_displaySection.xhtml?sectionNum=21455.5.&node
TreePath=15.2.3&lawCode=VEH 
4 See SJPD Duty Manual - http://www.sjpd.org/records/dutymanual.asp

--- page 3 ---
Data Usage Protocol (DUP) for Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) Technology 
UPDATED as of August 22, 2022 
3 
 
5. Designation of vehicles into “hot lists”5 shall be the sole responsibility of the assigned 
investigating officer or his/her designee. Vehicle’s cannot be entered into “hot lists” 
without a lieutenant’s approval. It will be the arresting/investigating officer’s 
responsibility to ensure timely entry/removal of license plates into/out of the designated 
“hot lists”.  
6. To the best of the system administrator or his/her designee’s ability, hot lists managed by 
an external source (e.g., the Stolen Vehicle System) will be synchronized with the 
external hot list at all times. In the event of a loss of connection to external hot lists, the 
ALPR system administrator or his/her designee shall synchronize with external hot-lists 
upon reconnection;  
7. Protocols shall be established to ensure timely notification is made to the system 
administrator to indicate and record when a “hot list” ALPR license plate capture is made 
and the ultimate disposition of the specific enforcement action;6 and 
8. All vehicles entered into a departmental “hot list” will contain the following information: 
a. Name, badge number and assignment of department member entering the 
information (e.g., Officer Smith #1234, Robbery Unit) 
b. Associated case number(s) 
c. Short synopsis describing the reason for the vehicle/occupant database entry. This 
should include the presumed crime or crimes relevant to this investigation. If no 
crime is relevant, state the other purpose (e.g., Amber alert) 
 
5) Data Collection 
ALPR utilizes high speed cameras angled to capture digital images of vehicle license plates on 
public roads and private property visible from a public road (e.g., a driveway). The cameras are 
trained on the license plate of a vehicle and rarely capture the image of a person. The cameras do 
not identify an individual or group based on physical characteristics such as skin-tone, body 
shape, or facial features. 
 
An example image captured from an ALPR camera is provided in Figure 1. While the ALPR 
camera is angled to capture license plate information, it may collect additional information 
visible in the image, including car make/model, and other distinguishing characteristics of the 
vehicle (e.g., bumper sticker(s), after market wheels, etc.). 
 
ALPR cameras may be placed in a fixed location, such as on a street light pole, or in a roaming 
location, such as on a police vehicle. The technology will record the date and time the image was 
captured as well as the location of the camera. The exact location of a vehicle is not tracked, but 
can be inferred based on the location of the camera at the time of the photograph.  
 
 
5 License plate(s) associated with vehicles of interest from an associated database, including, but 
not limited to: California Law Enforcement Telecommunications System (CLETS), National 
Crime Information Center (NCIC), Be on the Lookout notices (BOLOs), and Department 
databases 
6 An example notification would be: “Hot list 211A vehicle alerted at Curtner/Monterey, 
observed at Curtner/Malone. Vehicle stopped, driver arrested for 211”

--- page 4 ---
Data Usage Protocol (DUP) for Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) Technology 
UPDATED as of August 22, 2022 
4 
 
 
Figure 1: Police vehicle with an Automated License Plate Reader mounted on its roof, and an 
example picture from the ALPR camera (top-left). This ALPR picture identifies 1) the license 
plate, 2) the time and location of the car, and 3) other information captured in the photograph, 
including vehicle color, make, and model. Source: Pasadena, CA Police Department.  
https://www.pasadenanow.com/main/city-council-to-consider-purchasing-more-automatic-
license-plate-readers  
 
6) Notice 
Notice that the City of San José is using ALPR technology will be posted as signage at major 
vehicle entrances into the city and exits from the city, and at “designated intersections” within 
the city to notify residents that ALPR cameras may be present in their area.  
 
“Designated intersections” refers to locations near where ALPR technology is being utilized.  
The signs will contain notice that ALPR technology is in use and will direct the reader to where 
they can get more information about the ALPR program and policies. Notice and additional 
detail, including this Data Usage Protocol, will be available on the City website. 
 
7) Retention and Minimization 
Data collected from ALPR technology will be retained for one year. Once the retention period 
has expired, the record shall be purged entirely from all active and backup systems unless the 
data is related to an active investigation of a crime not listed in the “Prohibited Uses” section. 
 
Data associated with a criminal investigation may be stored for longer on an electronic storage 
device or printed and retained in accordance with applicable state and federal evidentiary laws, 
to include retaining the data through the adjudication of a case in a recognized court of law, as 
well as allotment of time for an appeals process and statute of limitations.

--- page 5 ---
Data Usage Protocol (DUP) for Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) Technology 
UPDATED as of August 22, 2022 
5 
 
8) Access and Accuracy 
Raw ALPR data, including photographs, license plates, location, and associated hot list data will 
not be available for public access unless required pursuant to city, state, or federal law, or a court 
order. Aggregated data on the ALPR technology, including performance metrics on the accuracy 
of the technology, will be made available annually in the Annual Data Usage Report. More 
details on the Annual Data Usage Report can be found in the “Annual Data Usage Report 
requirements” section below. The City may release more aggregated data periodically at its 
discretion. 
 
9) Accountability 
All Department members authorized to use or access ALPR technology or data shall be 
accountable for knowledge of this protocol. See “Training” section for definition of authorized 
personnel. 
 
All access to the system shall be logged, and the Department will maintain an audit trail of 
requested and accessed information, including the purpose of the query. Periodic, random audits 
shall be conducted by a unit other than Crime Data Intelligence Center (CDIC) at the direction of 
the Deputy Chief, Executive Officer to ensure and evaluate compliance with system 
requirements and with the provisions of this protocol and applicable law. Audit trails shall be 
maintained by the Department for a minimum of two (2) years. Additional audits or reviews may 
be triggered at the direction of the City Council or Digital Privacy Officer (DPO), consistent with 
state law and authorized access to information.  
 
 
If a Department member accesses or provides access to ALPR information, the Department 
member shall do the following: 
 
1. Maintain a record of the access that includes the following information: 
a. Date/Time the Information was accessed 
b. The license plate number or other data elements used to query the ALPR system 
c. The name and department of the person who accessed the information 
d. The purpose for accessing the information, including the presumed crime or 
crimes relevant to this investigation. If no crime is relevant, state the other 
purpose (e.g., Amber alert) 
2. ALPR information may only be used for authorized purposes as specified in this protocol 
in accordance with California Civil Code section 1798.90.51(b). 
 
10) Sharing 
The City does not share ALPR data with any contracted, commercial, or private entity. The 
provision of data hosting or towing services shall not be considered the sale, sharing, or 
transferring of ALPR information (see CA Civil Code 1798.90.55.(b)). 
 
Information gathered or collected, and records retained by the City will not be: 
 
1. Sold, published, exchanged, or disclosed for commercial purposes;

--- page 6 ---
Data Usage Protocol (DUP) for Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) Technology 
UPDATED as of August 22, 2022 
6 
 
2. Disclosed or published without authorization; or 
3. Disseminated to persons not authorized to access or use the information. 
 
The City shall not confirm the existence or nonexistence of information to any person or agency 
that would not be eligible to receive the information unless otherwise required by law. The City 
may agree to share access to its ALPR database by law enforcement agencies within the State of 
California on an agency-by-agency basis if an agreement is put into place.  
The data will not be shared beyond the approved agencies. All agencies must request SJPD 
ALPR data directly from SJPD (e.g., if SJPD shares ALPR data with Santa Clara PD, Sunnyvale 
PD must request SJPD data through SJPD rather than Santa Clara). The requesting agency may 
only access the data for an authorized purpose as noted in this protocol. 
 
Logs will be generated every time an approved law enforcement agency accesses data from 
SJPD’s ALPR system, which will include: 
a. Date/Time the Information was accessed 
b. The license plate number or other data elements used to query the ALPR system 
c. The name and law enforcement agency of the person who accessed the 
information 
d. The purpose for accessing the information 
 
11) Equity and Community Engagement 
 
The City will make a reasonable effort to identify and mitigate any inequity inherent in the 
ALPR technology and its implementation. Members of the public may submit any concerns via 
the public comment feature at sanjoseca.gov/digitalprivacy. Comments may also be submitted by 
emailing digitalprivacy@sanjoseca.gov or mailing the Digital Privacy Officer at 200 E Santa 
Clara St. San Jose CA 95113, 11th Floor. ALPR implementations can impact certain populations 
more than others. The City of San Jose is cognizant of that concern and will field potential 
complaints when submitted by emailing: digitalprivacy@sanjoseca.gov. After receiving a 
complaint, the City will perform an investigation and determine a corrective action plan, if 
necessary. 
 
12) Storage and Security 
Data collected by ALPR technology shall be stored in a secured police facility or secured third-
party hosting environment. With the exception of audits, access to the raw data (images of 
vehicles and license plates) shall be limited to law enforcement staff with a legitimate need and 
right to access the information. The Department will utilize reasonable physical, technological, 
administrative, procedural, and personnel security measures to prevent unauthorized access to 
ALPR data. Authorized sworn personnel or authorized civilian personnel (such as a crime 
analyst) shall have general user access to the SJPD ALPR database, as appropriate, to query 
information. See “Training” section for definition of “authorized personnel”. Entities authorized 
to audit the ALPR system (see “Accountability” section for who can authorize) do not need to be 
a part of the Department to access the database.

--- page 7 ---
Data Usage Protocol (DUP) for Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) Technology 
UPDATED as of August 22, 2022 
7 
 
Sworn personnel or authorized civilian personnel as approved by the Deputy Chief, Executive 
Officer, or his/her designee shall have administrative user access to the SJPD ALPR database, as 
appropriate, to control: 
1. The information to which a particular group or class of users can have access based on 
the group or class; 
2. The information a class of users can access, and/or data being utilized in specific 
investigations; 
3. Sharing capabilities with other law enforcement agencies; and 
4. Any administrative or functional access required to maintain, control, administer, audit, 
or otherwise manage the data or equipment. 
 
The Bureau of Technical Services Systems Development Unit may provide ALPR technical 
support for the Criminal Data Intelligence Center (CDIC). The CDIC shall ensure compliance 
with this protocol. The custodian of ALPR data for purposes of this protocol shall be the Deputy 
Chief, Executive Officer or his/her designee.  
 
In the event of a confirmed data breach where personal information such as license plate 
numbers or photographs have been accessed by an unauthorized party, the Department will 
follow the City of San José’s Incident Response Plan. This security protocol and further security 
details are overseen by the City’s Cybersecurity Office. 
 
13) Training 
Except for audits, only authorized personnel, meaning Department personnel trained in the use of 
ALPR technology, including its privacy and civil liberties protections, shall be allowed access to 
ALPR data. Training shall consist of: 
1. Legal authorities related to the use of ALPR data and technology; 
2. Current Department Data Usage Protocol regarding authorized use of ALPR technology; 
3. Technical, physical, administrative, and procedural measures to protect the security of 
ALPR data against unauthorized access or use; and 
4. Practical exercises in the use of ALPR technology. 
14) Annual Data Usage Report requirements 
To provide the City and the public with ongoing reporting on the usage and accuracy of the 
ALPR technology, the following information will be required in an Annual Data Usage Report 
submitted every year to the Digital Privacy Officer (DPO) no later than March 1st and covers the 
previous calendar year (January 1st – December 31st). In the year this Data Usage Protocol goes 
into effect, the Department is only required to report on the period from the date the Data Usage 
Protocol goes into effect until the end of the calendar year.7 The Digital Privacy Officer will 
release the report to the public once private, confidential, and otherwise sensitive information is 
removed. The DPO shall release the report within 90 days of receiving it from the department, 
unless additional time is required to remove private, confidential, and sensitive information. If 
 
7 If this Data Usage Protocol is passed after September 30th, the first Annual Data Usage Report 
will not be required until the following year, which will cover usage from the date the Data 
Usage Protocol goes into effect to December 31st of the following year

--- page 8 ---
Data Usage Protocol (DUP) for Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) Technology 
UPDATED as of August 22, 2022 
8 
 
the DPO needs additional time, they shall provide a notice of extension to the public via the 
Digital Privacy webpage.8 
 
1. Summary of the project and updates since the prior year, including detail on value to the 
department 
2. Plans for future years, including any planned expansion of project or shift in data usage 
3. Reporting metrics on ALPR usage and accuracy including: 
a. # of reads by location – the Department will either: 
i. Report directly the number of reads by location; or 
ii. Provide the Digital Privacy Officer (DPO) with access to the ALPR reads 
database, including the latitude and longitude of each read, from which the 
DPO can report by location as needed. 
b. # of hits by location – Similar to the # of reads by location, the Department will 
either:  
i. 
Report directly the number of hits by location; or 
ii. 
Provide the DPO with access to the ALPR reads database, including the 
latitude and longitude of each read and if the read was a hit, from which 
the DPO can report by location as needed. 
c. Records accessed by SJPD – the Department will report on the number of 
records accessed in accordance with the Accountability section of this Protocol. 
d. Accuracy of accessed records – the Department will report on the accuracy of 
the implemented ALPR technology as requested by Council and the DPO  
 
 
 
8 Link to the digital privacy webpage: https://www.sanjoseca.gov/your-government/departments-
offices/information-technology/digital-privacy