source: packet.pdf
sha256: 9815be1b5e70b188622e0f8220168a496585ac5585b0c6b0f9b6efa4bbdc8426
pages: 293
ocr_pages: 1
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
August 18, 2025
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Robert Newsom Jr.
Adam Loraine
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
 
AMENDED AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: August 18, 2025
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID:  864 5598 3473      Passcode: 463910
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting. 
Agenda Amended on Friday, August 15
Item 19 – Attachment 2 updated
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Consideration for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CEREMONIAL
1.
College of San Mateo Softball Championship – Recognition
2.
101  Airborne Bastogne Ball Presentation and Linda Patterson – Proclamation
3.
Sue Lempert – Mayor’s Quarterly Hero Award
4.
Karen Huang, Finance Director – Recognition
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
5.
City Council Meeting Minutes — Approval
Approve the minutes of the special and regular City Council meetings held on July 28, 2025.
CEQA: ​This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
st
1 of 293

--- page 2 ---
15378(b)(5).)
6.
Amendment to Contribution Limits for City Candidate Campaigns — Ordinance Adoption
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.80: "Contributions and Loans to City
Candidate Campaigns” to adjust contribution limits for individuals to $1,000, thereby aligning with organizational
contribution limits, link future contribution limits adjustments to the Consumer Price Index (CPI) and enhance
incentives for participation in the voluntary expenditure limits program, all in accordance with Council direction.
CEQA: This proposed Ordinance is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
7.
City Council and Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures — Updates
Approve the proposed amendments to the Rules and Procedures for both the City Council and Boards and
Commissions to reflect the direction provided by City Council.
CEQA: This administrative action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).))
8.
Marina Lagoon Spot Dredging Project — Bid Rejection
Adopt a Resolution to reject the sole bid received for the Marina Lagoon Spot Dredging Project and authorize the
Public Works Director to negotiate a contract directly with Power Engineering Construction Company.
CEQA: This Project will be performed pursuant to the terms and conditions of an existing permit with the
environmental regulatory agencies for the Marina Lagoon including the San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality
Control Board. On July 7, 2021, the City filed a Notice of Exemption with the Office of Planning and Research and
the County Clerk-Recorder for the County of San Mateo (SCH No. 2021070131) for proposed maintenance
activities for the Marina Lagoon, effective from 2022 through 2026. These maintenance activities are
categorically exempt as existing facilities as they involve negligible or no expansion of existing or former use.
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
9.
Gateway Park Pedestrian Bridge Replacement Project — Agreement
Approve an agreement with E.E. Gilbert Construction, Inc. for the Gateway Park Pedestrian Bridge Replacement
Project in the amount of $478,112.67; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $100,000; and authorize
the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders
as allowed by the contract documents and within the contingency amount.
CEQA: This project is categorically exempt from CEQA review, because it consists of the replacement or
reconstruction where the new bridge will be located on the same site as the structure replaced and will have
substantially the same purpose and capacity as the structure replaced. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15302.) ​ 
10.
On-Call Public Works Plan Review Services — Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the professional consultant services agreement with CSG Consultants, Inc. for
private development and right-of-way support services to increase the agreement amount by $200,000 for a
revised total, not-to-exceed amount of $600,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the
amendment in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: Approval of Amendment No. 2 is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that
there is no possibility that approval of an amendment for plan review services may have a significant effect on the
2 of 293

--- page 3 ---
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).))
11.
Los Prados, Kehoe Kelly & Arroyo Lift Stations Rehabilitation Project — Agreement
Award an agreement to JMB Construction, Inc. for the Los Prados, Kehoe Kelly & Arroyo Lift Station Rehabilitation
Project in an amount not to exceed $14,658,091.00; establish a contingency in the amount of $2,750,000.00; and
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue
change orders within the contingency amount.
CEQA: The work addressed by this administrative report is being undertaken to support the Clean Water Program.
This project is subject to the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the general
components of which are included as part of the Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR)
(SCH No. 201532006) that was prepared for the Clean Water Program. The Final PEIR was certified by City Council
on June 6, 2016. The City prepared Addenda to the Final PEIR that was approved on July 16, 2018 (Addendum 1)
and April 15, 2019 (Addendum 2). This work is within the scope of the Project evaluated in the PEIR and
Addendum.
12.
Central Recreation Center Roof Improvements Project — Contract Award
Award a construction contract to I & A Contractor, Inc. for improvements to the roof at the Central Recreation
Center in the amount of $196,000; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $39,200; and authorize the
Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within
the contingency amount.
CEQA: This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation,
repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures,
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or
former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301)
13.
Construction Special Inspection Services for the Clean Water Program — Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 5 to the professional services agreement with Smith Emery San Francisco to provide as-
needed construction special inspection services for various Clean Water Program projects; increase the
compensation for the agreement by $150,000, for a revised total agreement amount of $3,500,000; and
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented and issue
project-specific task orders under the agreement.
CEQA: The City prepared a Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) in accordance with the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (SCH No. 2015032006). The PEIR was certified by Council on June 6,
2016. In accordance with CEQA, the Final PEIR serves as the primary environmental compliance document for
implementation of the Clean Water Program. The City prepared Addenda to the Final PEIR that were approved on
July 16, 2018 (Addendum 1) and April 15, 2019 (Addendum 2). This work is within the scope of the project
evaluated in the PEIR and Addenda.
14.
Contracts with Contingency Component — Update
Receive the report on Citywide contracts contingency fund expenditures for the period from August 1, 2017,
through June 30, 2025.
CEQA: This informational update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
15.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Annual Major Components – Contingency Reserve Increase 
3 of 293

--- page 4 ---
Approve an increase to the project contingency of the Digester 2 Coatings Project being performed by Brand
Energy Services of California, Inc. by $160,000, for a total contingency reserve in the amount of $242,000; and
authorize the Public Works Director to approve any necessary change orders within the approved contingency
amount.
CEQA: This Council action is exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation,
repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures,
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or
former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
16.
Recreation Services Agreement — Contingency Reserve Increase
​Approve a contingency reserve increase in the amount of $30,000 for the Recreation Service Agreement with Bay
Area Educational Theater Company, 501(c)(3) for youth summer camps, revising the original contingency reserve
from $25,000 to $55,000; and authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to issue change orders within the
contingency amount. ​
CEQA: This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).))
17.
Customer Relationship Management Software and Services — Agreement
Adopt a Resolution approving an alternative purchasing procedure to award a three-year agreement to Catalis
Public Works & Citizen Engagement, LLC for a Customer Relationship Management software system in the
amount $140,500; approve $38,500 supplemental appropriation for the IT Department’s operating budget from
the General Fund unassigned fund balance; and authorize the Director of IT to execute the agreement in
substantially the form presented and issue amendments within the Agreement amount.
CEQA: This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause
a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
18.
Housing Set Aside Fund — Appropriation
Adopt a Resolution approving a supplemental budget appropriation of $250,000 of unassigned fund balance from
the General Fund to increase transfers out from the General Fund to the Housing Set Aside Fund (Fund 130) to
increase the budget for affordable housing developments.
CEQA: This Resolution is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
 
OLD BUSINESS
19.
Train Quiet Zone Project Status — Update
Receive a staff presentation on the status of the Train Quiet Zone implementation efforts and provide feedback.
4 of 293

--- page 5 ---
CEQA: This Council action is statutorily exempt from the preparation of environmental impact documents,
because it involves the planning for possible futures actions which have not been approved, adopted, or funded.
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15262.)
NEW BUSINESS
20.
City Council Appointments to External Agencies and Liaison Roles — Amendment
Review and provide direction to amend the Council Appointments list for 2025 to add a liaison to the San Mateo
Police Activities League.
CEQA: This appointments list approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and to ensure meaningful access for all participants, including those with
limited English proficiency, individuals requiring special accommodations or language assistance to participate in this meeting may contact the City
Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable
arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting
5 of 293

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 25-10278
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
August 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes — Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the special and regular City Council meetings held on July 28, 2025.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact associated with this administrative item.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Minutes 2025-07-28 Special
Att 2 – Minutes 2025-07-28 Regular
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
6 of 293

--- page 7 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 7/28/2025
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rob Newsom Jr., Mayor
Adam Loraine, Deputy Mayor
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
July 28, 2025
City Hall Council Chambers 5:30 PM
Special Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER at 5:30 p.m.
Roll Call
Present:
Mayor Newsom, Deputy Mayor Loraine, Council Members: Fernandez, Diaz Nash and Cwirko-Godycki
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency 
Circumstances – there were no requests. 
CLOSED SESSION
Following the opportunity for public comment, there were no speakers, the City Council convened into Closed Session at 
5:32 p.m. to consider:
1.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Existing Litigation
(Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Section 54956.9) 
Name of case: Jonathan Ayala-Zirate
2. 
Conference with Legal Counsel – Existing Litigation
(Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Section 54956.9) 
Name of case: Christopher Tofavaha v. City of San Mateo, San Mateo Superior Court Case No.: 25-CIV-0484
3.      Conference with Legal Counsel – Existing Litigation
          (Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Section 54956.9) 
            Name of case: PAR3SM LLC, Alicia Petrakis v. City of San   Mateo, San Mateo Superior Court Case No.: 25-CIV-
03773
4.       Conference with Labor Negotiators (Government Code Section 54957.6)
  City designated representatives: Aracelia Esparza, Yumi Maeda, and Stacey Cue - IEDA Consultant Employee    
organization: SEIU, SMCEA, SMMEA, POA, Police Sergeants’ Association, and Safety Management Association
5.         Conference with Labor Negotiators (Government Code Section 54957.6)
City designated representatives: Aracelia Esparza, Karen Huang, Abby Veeser, Stacey Cue - IEDA Consultant      
Employee organization: San Mateo Management Employees’ Association (SMMEA)
Council reconvened at 6:14 p.m.
7 of 293

--- page 8 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 7/28/2025
Page 2
STUDY SESSION
6.       City Council Rules and Procedures – Updates
       Martin McTaggart, City Clerk, gave a presentation on City Council's Rules and Procedures. 
Public Comment: 
Kevin Simpson expressed concern that organized presentations may advantage developers, advocated for 
equitable public input, recommended earlier access to meeting materials for residents, and supported requiring 
reapplication for commission appointments. Dave C. acknowledged the adopted code of conduct, questioned 
group presentation ID requirements, and recommended stronger enforcement of conflict-of-interest findings.
Council provided direction to approve staff’s proposed updates to the Rules and Procedures. Additional direction 
was provided to organize appointment subcommittees generally with two council members, allowing exceptions 
for high-profile commissions to have more members. Interview questions should be shared in advance. A 
discussion item will be provided in advance of next year’s recruitment to review vacancies, reappointments, and 
interview processes. Reappointment language should maintain council flexibility. Event attendance assignments 
should prioritize council members’ districts and clearly indicate Brown Act applicability. Public presentation 
materials must be submitted in advance, with group presenters required to attend meetings. Staff may reorder 
agenda items based on public interest. Interview panels should include a staff liaison, allow council members to 
opt in or out. 
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned at 7:10 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
Rob Newsom, Jr., Mayor                      
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk
8 of 293

--- page 9 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 7/28/2025
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Robert Newsom Jr., Mayor
Adam Loraine, Deputy Mayor
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
City Council Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
July 28, 2025
City Hall Council Chambers 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER at 7:15 p.m.
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
Present:
Mayor Newsom, Deputy Mayor Loraine, Council Members: Fernandez, Cwirko-Godycki, and Diaz Nash
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or 
Emergency Circumstances – there were no requests. 
CEREMONIAL
1.
Park and Recreation Month – Proclamation - Marie Silva, Deputy Director of Parks & Recreation, received the 
proclamation
2.
Disability Pride Month – Proclamation - Legia Andradi Zuniga, Executive Director of the Center for Independence of 
Individuals with Disabilities, received the proclamation virtually.
3.
Rethink Waste 2025 Trash to Art Contest Winners – Recognition - Raina Osigua, Environmental Education Associate, 
gave a presentation to recognize Mac S. and Hanya L.
CONSENT CALENDAR
The following items, 4 through 28, were considered to be routine by the City Council. After the titles of the items were 
read by the City Clerk, the public was invited to comment and there were two speakers. 
Public Comment: Michael Ragan supported the Hillsdale safety project, highlighting its broader neighborhood benefits 
and requested ongoing community involvement in planning. Kabir Sulur proposed using an AI tool developed by 
Compass Point Mentorship to generate accessible summaries of city council meetings from video and transcript data. 
Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Cwirko-Godycki, Seconded: Diaz Nash
Ayes: 
Newsom, Loraine, Fernandez, Cwirko-Godycki, and Diaz Nash
Noes: 
None
4.
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council meetings as follows: the special and regular meetings held on May 5, 2025, 
May 19, 2025, June 2, 2025, and June 16, 2025; and the special meetings held on May 6, 2025, May 7, 2025, May 
10, 2025, May 15, 2025, May 27, 2025.
5.
Zoning Code Amendments and Below Market Rate Program Update — Ordinance Adoption
9 of 293

--- page 10 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 7/28/2025
Page 2
Adopt an Ordinance amending the Zoning Code (Title 27) to address affordable housing compliance options, 
planning application procedures, and set minimum densities for residential mixed-use development projects; and 
find that the Ordinance is exempt from further environmental review pursuant to California Environmental Quality 
Act (CEQA) Section 15183.
Enactment:  Ordinance Nos. 2025-05
6.
Small Wireless Facility Permit Support Services — Agreements
Approve professional consultant services agreements for small wireless facilities permit review support services 
through May 31, 2027, with up to two optional one-year extensions, with: Anchor Engineering, Inc. d/b/a ANCHOR, 
in an amount not to exceed $250,000; and Gunnerson Consulting & Communication Site Services, LLC in an amount 
not to exceed $250,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreements in substantially the 
form presented and issue amendments within the budget amount including no-cost term extensions.
7.
Citywide Custodial Services – Agreement
Adopt a Resolution approving an alternative purchasing procedure to award a three-year agreement to Impec 
Group, LLC for Citywide Custodial Services in the amount of $3,581,907.00, with two optional one-year extensions 
subject to future Council approval; establish an annual contingency in the amount of $110,000 per agreement year; 
and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue 
amendments within the contingency amount.
Enactment: Resolution No. 78 (2025)
8.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade Construction Services – Contingency Increase
Approve an increase in the amount of $19,500,000 to the City’s contingency budget for its contract with Sundt 
Construction, Inc. for construction of the Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and Expansion Project; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to issue change orders within the contingency amount.
9.
Hillsdale High School/31st Avenue Pedestrian Safety Improvement Project – Grant Acceptance, Appropriation, and 
Supplemental Agreement
of the City’s Measure A funds as a local match to the Hillsdale High School/31st Avenue Pedestrian Safety 
Improvement Project; approve a supplemental agreement with San Mateo County Transportation Authority to 
receive the grant funding; and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
presented and any necessary future no-cost term extensions.
Enactment: Resolution No. 79 (2025)
10.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade Engineering Services During Construction – Amendment and Contingency 
Increase
Approve Amendment No. 13 to the agreement with HDR Engineering, Inc. for engineering services during 
construction for the Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and Expansion Project extending the term of the 
Agreement from August 31, 2025 through May 31, 2026; increase the contingency reserve by $1,500,000; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment and issue change orders within the contingency 
amount.
11.
Humboldt Street Paving with the City of Burlingame — Revised Cost Sharing Agreement
Approve a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Burlingame for the Paving of Humboldt Street in conjunction 
with Burlingame’s 2025 Street Resurfacing Project with an estimated cost to the City in the amount of $150,000.00; 
and authorize the City Manager to execute the Agreement in substantially the form presented.
10 of 293

--- page 11 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 7/28/2025
Page 3
12.
Citywide Elevator Maintenance Services – Agreement
Adopt a Resolution approving an alternative purchasing procedure to award a three-year agreement to Advanced 
Elevator Solutions, Inc. for Citywide Elevator Maintenance Services in the amount of $232,200, with two optional 
one-year extensions subject to future Council approval; establish an annual contingency in the amount of $8,000 
per year of the initial three-year agreement; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in 
substantially the form presented and issue amendments within the contingency amount.
Enactment: Resolution No. 80 (2025)
13.
Poplar Creek Tenant Improvements – Agreement
Approve and authorize the City Manager to execute an agreement with Jon K Takata Corporation d/b/a Restoration 
Management Company to provide contractual services in an amount not to exceed $1,265,263.23; increase the 
construction contract contingency to $50,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to issue change orders 
within the contingency amount.
14.
Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package 6B-1 — Agreement
Approve an agreement with G. Bortolotto & Company, Inc. in the amount of $2,588,392.25; establish a contingency 
reserve in the amount of $389,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in 
substantially the form presented and issue change orders as allowed by the contract documents and within the 
contingency amount.
15.
Main Library Lighting Controls Equipment – Purchase Agreement
Adopt a Resolution approving a purchase agreement with Graybar Electric Company, Inc. to provide lighting 
controls equipment to the Main Library in an amount not to exceed $183,911.28; establish a contingency of 
$18,000.00; and authorize the Public Works Director to issue change orders within the contingency and execute the 
agreement in substantially the form presented.
Enactment: Resolution No. 81 (2025)
16.
Citywide Surface Treatment Package 4A-1 Project — Agreement
Approve an agreement with American Asphalt Repair & Resurfacing Co., Inc. for Citywide Surface Treatment 
Package 4A-1 Project in the amount of $3,110,671; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $311,000; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change 
orders as allowed by the contract documents and within the amount of the contingency reserve.
17.
North Shoreview Flood Assessment District - Compensation Agreement
Approve a compensation agreement with County of San Mateo for levying of the North Shoreview Flood 
Assessment District fee and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
presented.
18.
2nd and El Camino Real and Central Parking Garages Elevator Controls Upgrade – Agreement
Approve an agreement with Consolidated CM, Inc. for professional construction management services for an 
elevator controls upgrade at the 2nd and El Camino Parking Garage in an amount not to exceed $147,950 for a term 
through June 30, 2026; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $15,000; and authorize the Public Works 
Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the 
contingency amount.
11 of 293

--- page 12 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 7/28/2025
Page 4
19.
City Hall Council Chambers Audio-Visual Upgrades – Construction Contract
Award a contract to Mark Latimer & Associates, Inc. dba Coda Technology Group for the City Hall Council Chambers 
Audio-Visual Upgrades project in the amount of $562,389.08; establish a contingency of $56,000; authorize the City 
Manager to execute the contract in substantially the form presented; and authorize the Public Works Director to 
issue change orders within the contingency amount.
20.
Juvenile Diversion Program Case Management Services – Contract and Amendment
Approve a three year contract with the Youth Service Bureau of the YMCA of San Francisco for Juvenile Diversion 
Program case management services in the total amount of $623,308; approve Amendment No. 6 to the agreement 
with the County of San Mateo to increase the reimbursement amount by $270,892 for case management services 
for the San Mateo Police Department Juvenile Diversion Program; approve a change order in the amount of 
$38,576 to cover the final costs for juvenile diversion case management services rendered in FY24/25; approve a 
contingency reserve of $50,000 and authorize the Chief of Police to issue change orders within that reserve; and 
authorize the Chief of Police to execute the documents in substantially the form presented.
21.
Police Recruit Training Officer Assignment – Agreement
Approve an agreement with Alameda County Sheriff's Office for the assignment of one police officer to the 
Alameda County Sheriff's Office Regional Training Center, and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the 
agreement in substantially the form presented.
22.
Building Inspector, Development Review Technician, and Housing Specialist Series; and Salary Schedule: Senior 
Housing Specialist – Job Specification Updates
Adopt a Resolution to approve updates to the job specifications for three series: 1) Building Inspector I-II-Senior, 2) 
Development Review Technician I-II-Senior, and 3) Housing Specialist I-II-Senior; and to approve the salary schedule 
for the classification of Senior Housing Specialist.
Enactment: Resolution No. 82 (2025)
23.
Solid Waste Technician Reclassification – Approval
Adopt a Resolution to approve the reclassification of the incumbent in the Administrative Assistant position in the 
Waste Management division of the Public Works Department to Solid Waste Technician.
Enactment: Resolution No. 83 (2025)
24.
Finance and Human Resources Services for San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department – Agreement
Approve an agreement between the City of San Mateo and the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department for 
Finance and Human Resources services for a five-year term beginning August 1, 2025, and ending June 30, 2030, 
with estimated compensation to the City in the amount of $6,147,039.18; and authorize the City Manager to 
execute the Agreement in substantially the form presented.
25.
Congregate Nutrition Program — Interagency Agreement
Approve an interagency agreement with the County of San Mateo for Fiscal Year 2025-2026 to partially fund a 
congregate nutrition program through the Older Americans Act for up to $48,096; and authorize the Director of 
Parks and Recreation to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
26.
Central Park Phase 1 Playground Improvements Project – Agreement Amendment No. 3
Approve Amendment No. 3 to the agreement with RRM Design Group (RRM) to extend the term of the agreement 
from December 31, 2025 to December 31, 2026.
27.
Climate Adaptation Plan for Sea Level Rise – Agreement
12 of 293

--- page 13 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 7/28/2025
Page 5
Approve an agreement with Environmental Science Associates (ESA) for the development of a Climate Adaptation 
Plan for Sea Level Rise in the amount of $420,000 for a term from August 1, 2025, through August 1, 2028; and 
authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
28.
Electrify San Mateo Sustainable Building Strategy – Adoption
Adopt a Resolution to adopt the Electrify San Mateo Sustainable Building Strategy establishing policy direction for 
decarbonizing existing buildings in San Mateo.
Enactment: Resolution No. 84 (2025)
END OF CONSENT CALENDAR
PUBLIC COMMENT
Kevin Simpson urged the council to recognize pedestrian injuries and fatalities as a citywide emergency. Michael 
Ragan expressed frustration that the long-delayed Hillsdale High pedestrian safety project was deprioritized, 
despite years of advocacy and neighborhood need. Trina Pierce voiced concern that the city continues to ignore 
North Central’s seniors and residents by not restoring promised parking or addressing longstanding safety issues. 
Mike Swire gave a presentation on behalf of Move San Mateo and advocated to preserve the Humboldt bike lanes, 
citing crash data, public support, and opposition to costly and unpopular alternative proposals. Marvin Hendrix 
called for the city to restore 100 parking spaces on Humboldt, stating North Central residents feel ignored and 
disrespected. Andrew Ryan called for the city to cancel wasteful Mills Act contracts, citing mismanagement, lost tax 
revenue, and lack of public benefit. Frank Elliott requested a transparent process and diverse policy options for 
updating the historic ordinance, particularly in light of Baywood's pending designation. Taso Zografos suggested 
restoring parking and removing bike lanes due to safety concerns.
NEW BUSINESS
City staff made a request to the Council that agenda item 30 be considered as the first discussion item due to public 
interest and attendance. City Council provided a consensus to approve this request.
30.     Emergency Rental Assistance Program - Adoption and Agreement 
Jennifer Mora, Housing Specialist I and La Trice Taylor, Senior Director of Programs and Services of Samaritan 
House, gave the presentation. 
Public Comment: 
Kary Eldridge, speaking on behalf of Our Home San Mateo, expressed strong support for the rent relief fund and 
urged the Council to consider expanding relocation assistance beyond the one month currently required by state 
law. Hiram Duvan expressed appreciation for the rental assistance program but also raised some concerns about 
access. Mitch Spiegel supported the program and urged clearer eligibility criteria, stronger fraud prevention 
measures, and earlier landlord involvement. Ligia Andrade Zuniga voiced support for the program, emphasizing 
its importance in helping people with disabilities remain housed and avoid institutionalization.
Council asked questions and made comments.
Motion to adopt a Resolution to establish an Emergency Rental Assistance Program, appropriate $168,000 from 
the Low and Moderate Income Asset Fund for FY 2025-26, approve an agreement with Samaritan House to 
administer the program, and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
presented. Motion passed 5-0.
13 of 293

--- page 14 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 7/28/2025
Page 6
Moved:     Newsom Seconded: Fernandez
Ayes:         Newsom, Loraine, Fernandez, Cwirko-Godycki, and Diaz Nash
Noes:        None
Enactment: Resolution No. 85 (2025)
OLD BUSINESS
29.
Amendment to Contribution Limits for City Candidate Campaigns – Ordinance Introduction and Public Financing 
Briefing
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk, gave the presentation.
Public Comment:
Dave C. supported exploring public campaign financing with spending limits but urged caution due to ethical 
concerns and unresolved logistical challenges.
The Council approved the staff recommendation as presented. Additionally, the Council deliberated public 
financing of candidate campaigns and no action was taken to proceed with implementation at this time. 
Motion to introduce an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.80: "Contributions and Loans to 
City Candidate Campaigns” to adjust contribution limits for individuals to $1,000, thereby aligning with 
organizational contribution limits, link future contribution limits adjustments to the CPI, and enhance incentives 
for participation in the voluntary expenditure limits program, all in accordance with Council direction. Receive an 
informational briefing on Public Financing of City Candidate Campaigns and provide direction on future action. 
Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Newsom, Seconded: Cwirko-Godycki,
Ayes: 
Newsom, Loraine, Fernandez, Cwirko-Godycki, and Diaz Nash
Noes: 
None
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members reported on their various assignments and liaison roles and 
noted past and future events, along with updates.
City will continue enforcement of the prohibition on lodging in vehicles starting August 4. Staff will prepare for a 
study session on food truck and street vendor regulations scheduled for September 15. A community meeting 
regarding Humboldt bike lanes and traffic calming measures is planned for August 25, with further updates and 
decisions expected later in the year. 
The City Manager and City Clerk will consult with local foundations and bring a liaison proposal to the August 18 
Council meeting. 
Staff will gather additional information concerning the Muwekma Ohlone Tribe proclamation request. Site visits 
and outreach regarding Mills Act properties are ongoing, with staff to report back at the next council meeting. 
Council members will raise awareness regarding the closure of Planned Parenthood clinics. The City Manager and 
Council will explore options for supporting the Pride Center’s temporary relocation. 
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned at 10:55 p.m. 
14 of 293

--- page 15 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 7/28/2025
Page 7
APPROVED BY:                                                       
SUBMITTED BY:
Rob Newsom, Jr., Mayor                
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk
15 of 293

--- page 16 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 25-10254
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
August 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Amendment to Contribution Limits for City Candidate Campaigns — Ordinance Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.80: "Contributions and Loans to City Candidate 
Campaigns” to adjust contribution limits for individuals to $1,000, thereby aligning with organizational contribution limits, 
link future contribution limits adjustments to the Consumer Price Index (CPI) and enhance incentives for participation in 
the voluntary expenditure limits program, all in accordance with Council direction. 
BACKGROUND:
On July 28, 2025, the City Council introduced the attached proposed Ordinance (Attachment 1) to amend San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 2.80: "Contributions and Loans to City Candidate Campaigns.”  The proposed Ordinance would 
increase contribution limits for individuals from $500 to $1,000 (the same limits currently applicable to organizations) with 
future increases linked to the CPI, rounded up to the nearest $10, and eliminates a related typographical error (a missing 
phrase) from the prior draft.  The Ordinance would also allow candidates who opt to participate in the voluntary 
expenditure limits program to submit an additional four-hundred-word candidate statement for inclusion on the City’s 
website.
If adopted, this Ordinance will take effect on January 1, 2026, in order to align with campaign reporting periods. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact associated with this item.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This proposed Ordinance is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Chantal Eaton, Deputy City Clerk
ceaton@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
16 of 293

--- page 17 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
WHEREAS, on February 18, 2025, staff provided the City Council with a post-election review of candidate 
campaign activity from the November 5, 2024 general municipal election, pursuant to San Mateo Municipal 
Code Section 2.80.080; and
WHEREAS, following this review, the Council directed staff to return with an ordinance to align 
contribution limits for individuals and organizations at $1,000, with future adjustments to follow changes in the 
Consumer Price Index (CPI), and to include additional incentives for participating in the voluntary expenditure 
limits program.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 2.80.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
2.80.030 LIMITATIONS ON CONTRIBUTIONS.
(a) For any particular election, no individual or organization shall make, and no candidate, candidate 
committee treasurer or other person acting on behalf of a candidate committee shall solicit or accept from any 
individual or organization any contribution which will cause the total amount contributed by such individual or 
organization to exceed $1000.00.
(b) Beginning January 1, 2027, the City Clerk shall once biennially, on a calendar-year basis, increase the 
contribution limitation amount upon a finding that the cost of living in the immediate San Francisco Bay Area, as 
shown on the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for all items in the San Francisco Bay Area as published by the U.S. 
Department of Labor, Bureau of Statistics, has increased. The increase of the contribution limitation amount 
shall not exceed the CPI increase, using the index published in June 2025 as the index year. The adjustment shall 
be rounded up to the nearest $10.00. The City Clerk shall publish the contribution limitation amounts no later 
than February 1st of each year in which an increase occurs.
(c) Any contribution or portion thereof that exceeds the limits in this section shall be returned to the 
contributor within 72 hours of receipt.
(d) The limitations imposed by this section shall not apply to contribution of a candidate's personal 
funds to the candidate's own campaign, or to any loan which is personally guaranteed by the candidate or is 
secured by property owned by the candidate.
Section 2. Subsection (c)(1) of Section 2.80.055 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
2.80.055 VOLUNTARY EXPENDITURE LIMIT.
(c) Candidates who agree to abide by the voluntary campaign expenditure limit shall receive the 
following benefits and incentives at no cost to themselves:
17 of 293

--- page 18 ---
(1) The City's website will prominently identify which candidates have agreed to the voluntary 
expenditure limit.  Candidates who agree to abide by the voluntary campaign expenditure limits may 
submit a written statement up to four hundred words.  The statement will appear exactly as submitted 
and shall conform to candidate statement guidelines provided by the City Clerk and Elections Code 
section 13307(a)(1), as amended.
Section 3. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15378(b)(5), this action is not a project subject to CEQA because it will not result in direct or 
indirect physical changes in the environment.
Section 4. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 5. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 6. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective on January 1, 2026.
Place attachments here
18 of 293

--- page 19 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 25-10252
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
August 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
City Council and Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures — Updates
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the proposed amendments to the Rules and Procedures for both the City Council and Boards and Commissions to 
reflect the direction provided by City Council.
BACKGROUND:
The City Council Rules and Procedures were first adopted in 2015 to guide how Council conducts business. The document 
has been updated over time to reflect changes in law, best practices, and Council feedback.
On July 28, 2025, Council reviewed and provided direction on proposed updates to various sections of the Rules and 
Procedures. These updates aim to improve clarity, efficiency, transparency, and fairness in City processes. This direction is 
also applied, where relevant, within the Boards and Commissions version of the Rules and Procedures.
Summary of Amendments:
1. Council Duties and Event Attendance (Chapter 3):
Clarifies how Council Members are selected to attend events when attendance must be limited (e.g., due to Brown Act 
rules). Priority goes to: (1) the Mayor or Deputy Mayor (in the absence of the Mayor) and (2) to the liaison most closely 
connected to the event, or (as amended by Council) the Council Member elected by district where the event is most 
directly impacted.
2. Public Participation (Chapter 7):
•
Presentation Materials: Requires advance submission of videos or other materials shown during public comment, 
with a deadline and review process to ensure proper function and relevance.
•
Organized Presentations: Clarifies that all speakers listed in a group presentation must be present (in-person or 
virtually) at the meeting.
3. Agenda Order (Chapter 8):
Allows the City Manager (or Staff Liaison for Boards and Commissions) to adjust the order of items (e.g., moving high-
interest items earlier) when publishing the agenda, with Council still able to adjust during meetings.
4. Council Travel & Training Budgets (Chapter 9):
Establishes equal budget allocations for each Council Member to ensure fair access to professional development, and adds 
clearer cost control measures.
19 of 293

--- page 20 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
5. Legislative Committee (Chapter 11):
Outlines the creation and use of a formal Legislative Platform, with the Legislative Committee in an advisory role. Clarifies 
that only Council Members and the City Manager may bring items forward, and that individual Council Members may still 
state personal positions.
Implementation: 
If approved, changes will be communicated publicly at meetings, posted online and in meeting locations, and included in 
agenda notifications.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact associated with this administrative action.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This administrative action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – City Council Rules and Procedures – Clean
Att 2 – City Council Rules and Procedures – Tracked Changes
Att 3 – Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures – Clean
Att 4 – Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures – Tracked Changes
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
20 of 293

--- page 21 ---
City Council Rules and Procedures 
Adopted on August 17, 2015
by Resolution No. 82 (2015)
Last Amended by Council action on 
June 16, 2025
21 of 293

--- page 22 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
2
City of San Mateo Council Rules and Procedures
Table of Contents
Chapter 1.
Purpose and Overview .............................................................................................3
Chapter 2.
Authority of the City Council ....................................................................................4
Chapter 3.
Key Governance Principles .......................................................................................5
Chapter 4.
Duties .......................................................................................................................7
Chapter 5.
Selection of Mayor and Deputy Mayor ..................................................................10
Chapter 6.
Council Member Conduct.......................................................................................12
Chapter 7.
Meetings.................................................................................................................15
Chapter 8.
Meeting Agendas....................................................................................................20
Chapter 9.
Financial Matters....................................................................................................23
Chapter 10. Communication ......................................................................................................28
Chapter 11. Legislative...............................................................................................................33
Chapter 12. Council Liaison Roles ..............................................................................................36
Chapter 13. Boards and Commissions........................................................................................39
Chapter 14. References..............................................................................................................42
22 of 293

--- page 23 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
3
Chapter 1.
Purpose and Overview 
This handbook describes the way for the San Mateo City Council to conduct its business and the 
expectations for members, staff, and the public to operate and engage with each other and the 
community as a whole. It is a compilation of all Council-related rules and procedures that have 
been formally adopted by Council. 
The purpose of these Rules and Procedures (Rules) is to set a standard of professionalism, 
civility, and decorum for the conduct of the City Council’s business. San Mateo has a long and 
proud tradition of open government and civil, intelligent public discourse. These rules are 
intended to enhance public participation and Council debate so that the best possible decisions 
can be made for San Mateo. 
Revisions to these Rules and Procedures
Amendments to these Rules must be approved by the City Council as a body and are subject to 
review and future modification as needed.
City Council Vision
The City Council’s vision and strategic goals can be found on the City’s website:
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?nid=167
23 of 293

--- page 24 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
4
Chapter 2.
Authority of the City Council
1.
The City Council is the policy and lawmaking body of the City. State and local laws define 
the powers and responsibilities of the City Council.
2.
General Authorities and Applicability
Charter section 2.12 and the San Mateo Municipal Code provide that the City Council shall 
determine its own rules and order of business. When not in conflict with the Charter of 
the City of San Mateo, or the Constitution, or laws of the State of California, these City 
Council Rules shall be in effect upon adoption by resolution of the Council.
3.
Revisions to these Rules
The Council shall review and revise these Rules as needed.
4.
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order
To the extent these Rules do not address an issue of parliamentary procedure for 
legislative body meetings, Rosenberg’s Rules of Order: Simple Parliamentary Procedures 
for the 21st Century, shall apply.
24 of 293

--- page 25 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
5
Chapter 3.
Key Governance Principles
In 2022, the City conducted its first by-district election for City Council members.  Districts 1, 3, 
and 5 held district elections in November 2022 and Districts 2 and 4 held district elections in 
November 2024. This new election process changes how council members are elected, but not 
how they govern. It is the intent of the City Council to continue the practice of governing with a 
citywide perspective. The City Council acts as a body, not as individuals. An overriding principle 
is that all members of the City Council continue to serve all of the people of San Mateo.
Key Governance Principles
1.
Serving the Entire Community
A.
The City Council wishes to remain united in its service to the community and will 
govern by considering the needs and interests of the community as a whole.
B.
Members of the City Council will continue to serve all residents, regardless of 
whether they live within their district. Members of the City Council may be 
responsive to requests from anyone in the community.
2.
City Management and Governance
Professional management in a Council-Manager form of government will continue with all 
of the best management practices that the City Council currently receives. 
3.
Use of City Resources
A.
The City Council will strive to use taxpayer resources efficiently and effectively 
while providing consistent services for all residents. Resources will be allocated 
based on the City’s long-term strategic plan and citywide considerations of service 
levels and financial capacity. 
B.
Budget allocations and financial considerations will not be made based on districts.
4.
Distribution of Council Duties and Events
Fair distribution of duties and assignments is a priority. Long-standing practices regarding 
invitations to members of the City Council to events and activities, appointments to 
committees and various bodies, and the process for board and commission appointments, 
will remain in effect.
A.
When Council Member attendance at events is limited due to Brown Act 
considerations, priority for attendance should align with (1) the Mayor, or Deputy 
Mayor if the Mayor is unavailable, and (2) the Council liaison most closely 
associated with the relevant board, commission, or policy area or the Council 
25 of 293

--- page 26 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
6
Member elected by the district most directly impacted by the subject of the meeting.
5.
Communications and Access to Information
A.
Council members will have equal access to information. Information necessary for 
the City Council to govern on a citywide basis will be shared with all City Council 
members.
B.
Communication resources will be provided on a citywide and/or program-level 
basis with equitable distribution across districts, while being consistent with legal 
requirements prohibiting the use of public resources for campaign purposes.
 
26 of 293

--- page 27 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
7
Chapter 4.
Duties
1.
Duties of the Council
A.
Refer to the Charter of the City of San Mateo for a detailed description of codified 
duties of the City Council.
B.
Disaster Responsibilities
1.
In the event of a disaster, the City Council holds the following roles:
a.
Primarily, to make decisions that will enable  emergency operations 
to continue effectively.
b.
To assist in the conveyance of public information.
2.
Reference the “Elected Officials’ Guide to Managing Disasters” from the 
California Office of Emergency Services for a detailed description of the 
roles and responsibilities of Council Members in times of disaster. 
2.
Duties of Mayor
A.
To conduct meetings of the City Council as its chairperson.
1.
Ensure that consideration of items on the agenda move along without 
delay.
2.
Ensure that petitioners, proponents and opponents, are heard but not 
allowed to disrupt the meeting. 
3.
Ensure that decorum and civility is maintained during the meeting.
4.
In presiding over matters where the public has provided comment or 
testimony and/or raised questions, the Mayor should:
a.
At the end of the public comment period restate, if any,  relevant 
questions raised from the public and direct questions or comments 
requiring a response to staff for a response. 
b.
Ensure that staff and members of the public direct their comments 
to the presiding officer and members.
c.
Help keep Council Member questions and comments relevant to 
the matter being considered by the Council.
27 of 293

--- page 28 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
8
d.
Consider calling for a brief recess if orderly conduct of the meeting 
is being disrupted. 
e.
Announce the decision and vote of the Council on all items, this 
may occur with the assistance of the City Clerk, the City Manager, 
City Attorney, or key staff presenting.
5.
To ensure that each member of the Council is provided an opportunity to 
completely express their views on items of business, the Mayor should:
a.
Actively seek Council Member comments and ensure that Council 
Members ask to be recognized by the Mayor before speaking to 
maintain an orderly process on the dais.
b.
Make sure that each Council Member has had a first chance at 
providing comments, before allowing a Council Member to make 
another statement – unless they are asked to clarify their prior 
statement.
c.
Ensure that each Council Member is given the opportunity to fully 
express their views.
B.
To represent City Government as its chief elected official at community functions, 
events, meetings, and business outreach and retention visits.
C.
On behalf of the City Council, to officially welcome dignitaries, officials, and special 
event gatherings.
D.
To vote on behalf of the Council at regional meetings such as the San Mateo 
County Council of Cities/City Selection Committee, provided that the vote is not 
inconsistent with established policies or previously expressed Council consensus. 
This is expected protocol for any Council Member who represents the City on any 
regional bodies.
E.
To correspond on behalf of the Council on subjects, issues, and legislative 
proposals provided that opinions expressed on behalf of the Council or City 
Government are not inconsistent with established policies or previously expressed 
Council consensus. 
F.
To vote as the City’s “voting delegate” at the League of California Cities Annual 
Conference and other similar meetings. This responsibility may be delegated to 
another Council Member by action of the City Council.
G.
To review the agendas of meetings of the City Council and participate in their 
preparation as necessary.
28 of 293

--- page 29 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
9
H.
To recommend Council Members for liaison positions on various boards, 
commissions and agencies. The Mayor’s recommendations shall be discussed and 
confirmed by a majority vote of the Council and are subject to change.
I.
To serve as the City’s primary media spokesperson in coordination with City staff. 
Appropriate City staff should always be alerted to media contact.
J.
Nothing under the Mayor’s duties shall limit any individual Council Member’s 
ability to interact with members of the public.
K.
The Mayor is still subject to all duties of Council Members as listed below in 
number 4.
3.
Duties of Deputy Mayor
In the absence of the Mayor from the City or a Council meeting, the Deputy Mayor shall 
possess all powers of the office of the Mayor; and be subject to all prescribed duties for 
that office.
4.
Duties of Council Members
A.
Arrive on time for all Council meetings.
B.
Review all meeting materials in preparation for Council meetings, and direct 
questions to staff (before meetings, whenever practical) if any item is unclear or 
clarification is needed. 
C.
Alert staff in advance of the meeting whenever possible if an item is intended to 
be pulled off of the Consent Calendar or introduced under Reports and 
Announcements for future Council consideration.
D.
Fulfill the appointed and liaison assignments to internal and external agencies, 
legislators, and the City’s boards and commissions, with all due diligence needed 
for the requirements of that particular assignment. 
E.
It is the responsibility of all members to assist the Mayor in running an efficient 
and effective meeting by assisting with the orderly disposition of items, helping 
ensure all members are heard, participating fully in meaningful discussion and 
deliberation, keeping comments succinct, concise, civil and germane, and limiting 
repetitive comments. Council members are encouraged to hold their colleagues 
accountable for following these rules and do all in their power to contribute to the 
smooth running of a meeting for the community.
F.
All Council Members are asked to alert appropriate staff when receiving media 
inquiries.
29 of 293

--- page 30 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
10
Chapter 5.
Selection of Mayor and Deputy Mayor
1.
City Council reorganization, including rotation of the office of Mayor and Deputy Mayor 
occurs annually at the regular meeting in December. 
2.
The City Council believes that experience as a Council Member will assist those who are 
selected to serve as Mayor or Deputy Mayor, and that it is in the City’s best interest that 
these selections be made in a manner that permits the Mayor and Deputy Mayor to gain 
that experience in cycles of governing and to acclimate themselves to the jobs, tasks, and 
roles prior to assuming their respective offices. 
3.
It is appropriate to base such succession on rotation and seniority according to the 
following:
A.
Each Council Member has a specified position in the rotation sequence. In any 
year, the first person in the sequence is typically selected as Mayor, and the 
second in the sequence as the Deputy Mayor. 
B.
After serving as Mayor, that Council Member moves to the end of the rotation 
sequence, and the other four Council Members move forward.
C.
When a Council Member is newly elected or appointed (as the result of a cancelled 
election), that new Council Member goes into the fourth position in the rotation, 
after all incumbents, but before the current outgoing Mayor. 
D.
If two or more Council Members are newly elected or appointed at the same time, 
the newly elected or appointed Council Members shall draw lots to determine 
their position relative to one another in the rotational sequence. 
E.
If a Council Member is appointed to fill a mid-term vacancy, that Council Member 
will go to the end of the rotational list.
F.
Incumbent Council Members, when re-elected, do not begin anew at the end of 
the list, but rather retain their placement in the rotation.
G.
If for any reason (death, resignation, recall, not seeking re-election, etc.) a Council 
Member is removed from the rotation, the remaining Council Members move 
forward in the sequence. 
H.
A Council Member may decline to serve as Mayor or Deputy Mayor. In this case, 
the office would pass to the next Council Member on the list. The Council Member 
who declined will drop back one position in the rotation.
30 of 293

--- page 31 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
11
4.
When the Council reorganizes, the outgoing Mayor will nominate the Deputy Mayor to 
succeed him/her. The newly appointed Mayor will then nominate the next Council 
Member in the rotational sequence to serve as Deputy Mayor for the coming year.
5.
The process described above shall guide the Council’s selection of the Mayor and Deputy 
Mayor; however, a majority of the City Council retains the authority to disregard the 
process and select any member of the City Council for these positions.
6.
The City Clerk shall keep a list outlining the rotational sequence and update it annually.
31 of 293

--- page 32 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
12
Chapter 6.
Council Member Conduct
1.
Council Members are committed to governing for all, striving to avoid any appearance of 
impropriety, and running our meetings with civility, decorum, and respect. With that 
spirit, San Mateo Council Members shall:
A.
Govern as a body. If we work together well as a team, our City will excel. 
B.
Treat all with dignity, courtesy, and respect. This includes staff, each other, or 
members of the public, on and off the dais. 
C.
Keep confidential matters confidential. 
D.
Respect process and roles. This includes avoiding interruptions and distractions. 
E.
Agree to disagree in a respectful manner. We focus on the issue not the person. 
F.
Keep our comments clear, concise, and on-topic. This respects our colleagues’, the 
public’s, and staffs’ time. 
G.
Give each other a chance to speak. Everyone gets to speak before another of us 
speaks for a second time. We refrain from dominating the discussion. 
H.
The Mayor normally speaks last. After other members of the Council have offered 
their opinions, the Mayor speaks. The Mayor can speak after each round of 
speaking by Council Members. 
I.
Be mindful of the impact of our words and tone. We consider this as we address 
each other, staff, and the public. 
J.
Promote discussion and resolution. We present problems and issues in that way. 
K.
Follow the agenda. We begin and end meetings on time. 
L.
Respect the City Charter, rule of law, and decisions once made. We do not attempt 
to undermine decisions. 
M.
Speak for the City only when specifically authorized. 
N.
Practice a “no surprises” rule. We give a heads up to the City Manager and City 
Attorney out of respect and teamwork. 
O.
Practice the principles of inclusivity and self-awareness to guard against implicit 
bias in our actions and decisions. 
32 of 293

--- page 33 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
13
P.
Adhere to all federal, state, and local laws in the performance of their public 
duties, including conflict-of-interest laws. 
Q.
Pay close attention to the meeting and limit the use of electronic devices while on 
the dais, except as necessary to access agenda materials or respond to urgent 
personal matters.
R.
When acting in a quasi-judicial capacity: keep an open mind, do not rush to pre-
judge any matter, and be fair and neutral towards all concerned parties. This 
applies to statements that are verbal and written, including posts on social media. 
At the beginning of the hearing, disclose any ex parte communications (oral or 
written from one party outside of the hearing) and describe the nature and 
substance of the communication.
2.
Council Members shall not participate as a volunteer in any of the City’s operating 
departments.
3.
Council Members are subject to all the provisions of the City’s Harassment, Discrimination 
and Reasonable Accommodations for Disabilities Policy (#301).
4.
Council Members shall complete ethics training as required by state law.
5.
Enforcement.
A.
Where a Council member is allegedly not following the rules set forth in this 
Chapter (“Code of Conduct”), any concerned Council member is encouraged to 
resolve the matter on an informal basis through direct conversations, or by 
referral to the Mayor (or the Deputy Mayor if the Mayor’s conduct is at issue) to 
privately counsel the subject Council member.  
B.
If the offense(s) continue, or if warranted due to the serious nature of an initial 
violation, two Council members may file a complaint regarding the conduct of 
another Council Member for an alleged violation of the Code of Conduct.  The 
complaint shall be in writing and filed with the City Clerk, with a copy to the City 
Manager and City Attorney.  A copy of the complaint shall be promptly provided to 
the Council.  The City Clerk shall place the complaint on the next available City 
Council agenda for initial consideration.  The Council member who is the subject of 
the complaint may include a written response to be included with the agenda 
packet or may verbally address the complaint at the Council meeting, or both.  
C.
At the meeting where the complaint is considered, a Council majority (3 votes) 
shall decide whether to (1) take no action, (2) reprimand the subject Council 
member and require them to promptly take ethics training (in addition to any 
training required by law), or (3) schedule the matter for a future hearing to 
consider a formal resolution of censure, revoke seniority and/or committee 
33 of 293

--- page 34 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
14
assignments (both internal and inter-governmental), and/or restrict payment of 
expenses such as for official travel.  Alternatively, the Council may direct the City 
Manager or City Attorney to investigate the matter, or to engage a third party to do 
so, and bring it back to the Council following completion of the investigation.  
D.
If a Council majority (3 votes) directs the scheduling of a hearing, it should also 
appoint one or two Council members to draft a censure resolution to be included 
with the agenda packet.  At the hearing, the Council member who is the subject of 
the complaint shall have the opportunity to rebut the allegations in the report 
either themselves or through a representative.  The formal rules of evidence shall 
not apply, and the hearing shall be generally informal.  
E.
At the close of the hearing, a Council majority (3 votes) shall decide whether to:  
(1) take no action, (2) issue a reprimand and require the Council member to 
promptly take ethics training (beyond what is required by law), or (3) adopt a 
censure resolution, revoke seniority and/or committee assignments (both internal 
and inter-governmental) and/or restrict payment of expenses such as for official 
travel.  Any action taken by the Council is final and is not subject to appeal or 
reconsideration.  
34 of 293

--- page 35 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
15
Chapter 7.
Meetings
1.
All Council decisions must be taken at City Council meetings only after hearing the 
presentation, project applicants, and hearing all public comments/testimony, then only 
under council discussion with colleagues should Council Member opinions be shared and 
deliberations engaged in before making any decision or taking action.
2.
No business may be transacted by the Council at a regular or special meeting unless a 
quorum of the membership is present (50% plus one of those currently serving).
3.
Council Meeting Dates
A.
If at any time any regular meeting of the Council falls on a holiday, the regular 
meeting shall be held on the next business day or the earliest business day within 
a week.
B.
Once a year, adopt a schedule of Council meetings for the following year 
identifying any regular meeting dates that need to move due to major holidays or 
other conflicts.
C.
Meeting dates may be amended with the approval of the Council.
4.
Types of Meetings
A.
Regular Meetings are conducted at City Hall Council Chambers on the first and 
third Monday nights of each month. In July, August, and December, only one 
meeting is held during the month. The regular meetings are held not earlier than 
6:30 pm.  It is City policy to make every effort to complete and distribute the 
agenda and related reports by the preceding Thursday. For major complex projects 
and policies, the City will make every effort to distribute reports as early as 
possible before the meeting when the item will be considered.
B.
Special Meetings are called at a non-regular meeting date and time. They are 
called by the Mayor or Council with a minimum of 24 hours’ notice, versus 72 
hours’ notice for regular meetings.
C.
Study Sessions are special meetings that are held for the purpose of providing 
information to the City Council, particularly on issues that are more complex or 
more time-consuming than matters typically scheduled on a regular City Council 
meeting. At study sessions, Council Members may state their individual responses 
and questions to the information provided and may collectively provide direction 
to City staff. No action is taken at the study sessions, but direction may be given.
D.
Closed Sessions can be part of either special or regular meetings. The Council 
conducts its business in public to the greatest extent possible. State law recognizes 
35 of 293

--- page 36 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
16
that public discussion of certain items could jeopardize the public interest, compromise 
the City’s position, or cost the citizens of San Mateo financially, and, therefore; generally 
allows the City Council to hold closed session meetings for the consideration of certain 
personnel matters, labor negotiations, real property negotiations, matters of public 
security, and the discussion of litigation, among other things. These rules provide for 
strict confidentiality of City Council discussion as required by State law. The procedures 
for the conduct of the closed sessions shall be the same as those for open session 
meetings, except that the public, after an opportunity for public comment, are excluded.
E.
Emergency Meetings are allowed per the Ralph M. Brown Act when an emergency 
situation involving matters upon which prompt action is necessary due to the 
disruption or threatened disruption of the public’s well-being. 
F.
Adjourned Meetings due to Power Outages. In the event that the location of a 
City Council meeting loses electrical power or suffers an internet connection 
outage not corrected within 15 minutes, the meeting may be adjourned to a date 
certain. Any items noticed as public hearings will be continued to the next 
regularly scheduled meeting of the City Council. Any other agenda items the 
Council has not taken action on will be placed on a future agenda.
5.
Voting
A motion, second, and a majority vote of the Council shall be required for any formal 
action of Council unless the law or charter require a different threshold.
6.
The Mayor, with the approval of a majority of the Council, may change the order of 
hearing of items on the agenda. Staff may make suggestions on the order due to practical 
and logistical issues.
7.
Public Participation
A.
Members of the public are encouraged and invited to participate in the legislative 
process by submitting written comments before the meeting or speaking in person 
or virtually when offered, at a meeting.
B.
It is the intent of these rules to allow everyone to be heard without fear of jeers or 
cheers that may discourage public participation. For this reason, these rules are 
taken seriously. Disruptive or unruly behavior may result in removal from the 
Council meeting.
C.
Public meetings are considered a limited public forum in which speakers must stay 
on-topic if speaking to a particular agenda item. If speaking during general public 
comment, they must address matters within the subject matter jurisdiction of the 
36 of 293

--- page 37 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
17
City. If speakers fail to follow these rules, they will be warned, and if they continue to 
disregard the rules, their opportunity to speak will be ended.
D.
The Mayor may, at their discretion with Council concurrence, limit the amount of 
time allotted to speakers when needed, per the following time limits.
E.
Generally, time limits for public comment are dependent on the number of 
speakers:
1.
Individual Speakers: 
•
between 1 -10: 3 minutes
•
between 11-20: 2 minutes
•
over 21 speakers: 1 minute
2.
Organized group (in lieu of individual speakers of the group) – up to five (5) 
minutes for a group presentation, with as many speakers as can be 
accommodated within that time allowance. To qualify for a group 
presentation, all individuals associated with the presentation must be 
clearly identified and confirmed as in attendance at the meeting. 
3.
Yielding of Time. To ensure that all persons have an ample opportunity to 
be heard, all speakers will be recognized for the same amount of time. No 
speaker will be allowed to yield all or part of their time to another, and no 
speaker will be credited with time requested but not used by another.
F.
Members of the public are invited to speak at the lectern microphone to ensure all 
attendees, in person and remote, can adequately hear comments, and so that it 
can be captured on the video recording.
G.
Presentation Materials – Videos, slide shows, and other visual materials may be 
used during public comment or group presentations, provided they do not exceed 
the allotted speaking time. Any content still in progress when the time expires will 
be stopped. All presentation materials must be submitted for review—both for 
technical compatibility and relevance to subject matter or city business—no later 
than one (1) business day before the meeting.
H.
Individuals who wish to speak should submit a speaker card to the City Clerk, or 
use the raise your hand feature virtually, to be called up at the appropriate time. 
The Clerk will announce the last opportunity to submit forms or raise hands and 
announce when the time has closed for public comment on any particular item. 
8.
Agendized Discussion Items (Public Hearings, New Business, Old Business)
37 of 293

--- page 38 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
18
A.
Staff / applicant presentation
B.
Open public hearing (or public comment section) for testimony
C.
Close public hearing (or public comment section)
D.
Response by staff to public questions/concerns, if warranted
E.
Council questions to applicant and/or staff
F.
Council discussion and deliberation
G.
Council votes
9.
Appeals
A.
Appeals are public hearings and will follow the order stated in #8 with the 
following time allocations:
1.
Appellant – 15 minutes
2.
Applicant (if not the Appellant) – 15 minutes
3.
Individual Speakers –  as outlined in Section 7(E)(1) above.
4.
Rebuttal (Applies to Appellant and Applicant) – 5 minutes each
5.
Clarification (Staff may offer explanation or clarification for the testimony) 
6.
If the appellant is also the applicant only one 15 minute presentation is 
allowed
7.
Tenant Relocation Appeals Hearings – both the Landlord and the Tenant 
shall each be given 15 minutes to present, and each shall have a 5-minute 
rebuttal.
B.
Appeals from decisions of the City’s Boards and Commissions shall appear on the 
Council agenda for discussion. Council determines whether to affirm the action of 
the commission, refer the matter back to the commission, or reverse the decision. 
C.
Any person that addressed the Council during one of the fifteen-minute periods 
may not speak again during the public comment period for individual speakers on 
the appeal. 
10.
Items Considered after 11:00 p.m.
38 of 293

--- page 39 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
19
At 11:00 pm, in order to ensure effective discourse on an item, the Council will determine 
with a majority vote whether to continue with an item or if they will take up any 
remaining unheard items.
11.
Action Minutes
A.
The City Council shall use Action Minutes (action minutes contain very little, if any, 
narrative content) or light summary at the discretion of the City Clerk, to record 
their proceedings.
B.
Motions and votes are shown in the record.
C.
Media (audio/video) recordings will be used in order to provide a verbatim record 
of meetings as identified in the City’s Records Retention Schedule.
12.
Conflict of Interest
A.
The Political Reform Act (PRA), implemented, regulated and enforced by the Fair 
Political Practices Commission (FPPC), controls financial conflicts of interest. 
B.
The other applicable law is Government Code section 1090, which applies only to 
City contracts in which a public official has a financial interest.
C.
Whenever it appears to a Council Member they may have a prohibited financial 
interest in any City contract, or an item that may be presented to the City Council, 
the Council Member should consult with the City Attorney at the earliest 
opportunity for advice on whether a disqualifying conflict of interest exists. 
D.
If the City Attorney is consulted on such a matter, the City Attorney shall provide 
their advice in writing, and shall provide a copy of their opinion to the City Council, 
the City Manager, and the City Clerk.
E.
With full consideration of the City Attorney’s advice, it is up to each individual 
Council Member to decide for themselves whether there is a conflict of interest.
F.
A member shall not vote upon any matter on which they have a conflict of 
interest.
G.
A member shall openly state the reason for their conflict of interest.
H.
A member who is disqualified by a conflict of interest shall recuse him/herself 
from the dais and leave the room unless it is during the Consent Calendar.
39 of 293

--- page 40 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
20
Chapter 8.
Meeting Agendas
1.
Agenda Order
City Council agendas will be prepared by the City Clerk and presented to the City Council 
in the order described below, except where the City Manager determines that a different 
order is appropriate under the circumstances.
A.
Opening
1.
Pledge of Allegiance
2.
Roll Call
3.
AB 2449 Member requests to join virtually for Just Cause or Emergency 
Circumstances – vote is required
B.
Ceremonial Matters
The presentation and receipt of ceremonial resolutions and celebrations not 
requiring formal legislative action. In order to ensure the business of the meeting 
can be handled timely, no more than three (3) items will be scheduled under 
ceremonial in any meeting. 
C.
Consent Calendar
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be 
routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If discussion is 
desired, that item may be removed by a Council Member and considered 
separately. Members of the Public may speak to any Consent Calendar item 
without the item being pulled.
D.
Public Comment
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the 
agenda may address the City Council at this time. State law prevents Council from 
taking action on any matter not on the agenda. Comments may be referred to staff 
for follow up. Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes unless Council by 
majority extends the total time; however, an opportunity for additional public 
comment may be provided later in the agenda, if needed. Timing as per Chapter 7 
E(1) of these Rules.
E.
Public Hearing
Duly noticed hearings as mandated by local, state, or federal law, providing an 
opportunity for public review and comment of a proposed action by the Council.
40 of 293

--- page 41 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
21
F.
Old Business
Non-routine items that have been presented before that require further oral 
presentation and/or discussion before action is taken.
G.
New Business
Non-routine items requiring an oral presentation and discussion before action is 
taken.
H.
Reports and Announcements
City Manager, City Attorney, and Council Members, report on their various 
assignments and liaison roles, and Council Members may make individual requests 
to schedule future items for consideration. Council Members should notify the City 
Manager in advance if they intend to make such a request.  A majority vote or 
consensus of Council is required to place a request on a future agenda. If a Council 
Member is going to make a request to agendize an item, such as a resolution of 
support that they have proposed wording for, or a sample copy of a proposed 
resolution, that item should be sent to the Clerk for distribution to members no 
later than the time of the agenda packet issuance and in advance of the meeting in 
order to give the other Council Members adequate time to review and determine 
if it is something they would like to support.
I.
Additional Public Comment (if needed)
J.
Adjourn
2.
Agenda Item Submission
A.
Persons who can place matters on the agenda: City Manager or City Attorney
B.
Council Member: 
1.
A Council Member may request an item be considered on a future agenda. 
Before the decision is made, staff will provide information on how much 
staff time is estimated to be required to produce the agenda report. Then 
with a majority vote or consensus of Council, staff will prepare an agenda 
report and place the item on a future agenda. 
2.
Council Members may make this request verbally during a meeting or may 
submit a written request. 
C.
Members of the Public 
1.
A member of the public may request Council action in the following ways:
41 of 293

--- page 42 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
22
a.
Write a letter or email to the City Council
b.
Speak during the Public Comment period at a City Council meeting
c.
Attend annual Council goal setting meeting and provide input
2.
Upon agreement of a majority of the City Council, Council will determine 
whether to place an item requested by the public on a future agenda.
42 of 293

--- page 43 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
23
Chapter 9.
Financial Matters
1.
Council Member Compensation
A.
State law sets the overall level of compensation for City Council Members 
(California Government Code § 36516).
B.
Compensation of Council Members is set by Resolution (see the San Mateo City 
Charter, Section 2.03 Compensation).
C.
Council Member benefits are established in San Mateo City Charter, Section 2.04 
Benefits and Expenses.
D.
A full explanation of Council Member compensation is available on the City’s 
website.
2.
City Council Expense Reimbursement Policy
A.
Authorized Expenses
1.
City funds, equipment, supplies, titles, and staff time must only be used for 
authorized city business. Expenses incurred in connection with the 
following types of activities generally constitute authorized expenses, as 
long as the other requirements of this policy are met:
a.
Communicating with representatives of regional, state, and national 
government on matters of interest to the City.
b.
Meeting with City staff on matters relating to City business.
c.
Attending educational seminars designed to improve officials’ skill 
and information levels.
d.
Participating in local, regional, state, and national organizations 
whose activities effect the City’s interests; however, a member of 
the City Council shall not accept an elected or appointed position 
that would require anticipated costs to the City of more than $100 
annually without City Council approval.
e.
Recognizing the service to the City (for example, thanking a 
longtime employee with a retirement gift of nominal value).
f.
Attending fundraising events for nonprofit entities providing 
services of benefit to the City and/or its residents.
g.
Attending City events.
43 of 293

--- page 44 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
24
h.
Implementing a City approved strategy for attracting or retaining 
businesses to the City, which will typically involve at least one staff 
member.
2.
All other expenses require prior approval by the City Council.
3.
The City will not reimburse the following expenses:
a.
The personal portion of any trip.
b.
Political contributions or events.
c.
Family expenses, including partner’s expenses when accompanying 
official on agency-related business.
d.
Entertainment expenses, such as movies, sporting events, or 
cultural events.
e.
Non-mileage personal automobile expenses, including repairs, 
citations, insurance or gasoline.
B.
Cost Control
To conserve City resources and keep expenses within community standards for 
public officials, expenditures should adhere to the following guidelines. If expenses 
are incurred that exceed these guidelines, the cost borne or reimbursed by the 
City will be limited to the costs that fall within these guidelines. 
Each Council Member will have equal access to an annual budget for events, 
trainings, and conferences. Once a Council Member’s individual allocation has 
been fully used, additional funds may only be granted with approval from the City 
Council. Funds may not be transferred between Council Members. The City Clerk’s 
Office will monitor and track individual Council Member expenditures to ensure 
compliance with this policy.
1.
Airfare
Airfares that are equal to or less than those available through the League of 
California Cities, the California State Association of Counties, and the State 
of California are presumed to be the most economical and reasonable for 
purposes of reimbursement under this policy.  If no discounted airfare is 
available through these entities, then the most reasonable and economical 
airfare possible should be utilized.
2.
Airport Parking
44 of 293

--- page 45 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
25
Long-term parking must be used for travel exceeding 24 hours.
3.
Automobile
Mileage shall be reimbursed at IRS rates presently in effect (see 
www.irs.gov). These rates are designed to compensate the driver for 
gasoline, insurance, maintenance, and other expenses. In addition, drivers 
may be reimbursed for bridge and road tolls. For rental vehicles, only 
receipted fuel expenses will be reimbursed.
4.
Car Rental
Rental rates that are equal or less than those available through the State of 
California’s website Car Rental Resources for State Travel shall be 
considered the most economical and reasonable for purposes of 
reimbursement under this policy.
5.
Conferences/Meetings
If such lodging is in connection with a conference, lodging expenses must 
not exceed the group rate published by the conference sponsor for the 
meeting in question if such rates are available at the time of booking. If the 
group rate is not available, rates that are equal to or less than the group 
rate at the host hotel are presumed to be reasonable and reimbursable for 
purposes of this policy.
6.
Internet
Officials will be reimbursed for Internet access connection and/or usage 
fees away from home, if Internet access is necessary for City business.
7.
Lodging
Council members are expected to select the most cost-effective and logical 
lodging available, including utilizing the lodging at the conference/training 
site, if available. If there is not specific lodging associated with the official 
City business, the City shall pay for actual lodging expenses up to the 
United States General Services Administration (GSA) maximum rate 
allowed by location (Per Diem Rates | GSA). This maximum applies to the 
room rate only and does not include any taxes or fees. Government rates 
for lodging are often available and should be sought. The City will pay only 
for standard single rooms, including taxes and fees, for individual Council 
members, and any additional nonbusiness expenses incurred will be paid 
by the Council member.
45 of 293

--- page 46 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
26
8.
Meals
The City will pay for a Council member’s meals during authorized, required 
travel up to the per diem amount (Per Diem Rates | GSA). If meals are 
included in the cost of a conference or training, the City will not pay for a 
meal that an employee elects to purchase from another source. Unlike 
lodging, using the per diem methodology for meals that is limited to the 
GSA amount eliminates the need for employees to submit receipts. Thus, 
the Council members only need to report the per diem amounts in the 
expense report, but not the actual receipts. This only applies to meals, as 
all other travel expenses require a receipt to substantiate the purchase. 
When the meal function is an organized event, the official or employee 
shall be reimbursed the amount being charged by the event organizer for 
the meal. The City will not pay for alcohol/personal bar expenses.
9.
Taxis/Shuttles
Taxis or shuttle fares may be reimbursed, including a 15 percent gratuity 
per fare, when the cost of such fares is equal or less than the cost of car 
rentals, gasoline, and parking combined, or when such transportation is 
necessary for time-efficiency.
10.
Telephone/Fax/Cellular
Officials will be reimbursed for actual telephone and fax expenses incurred 
on City business. Telephone bills should identify which calls were made on 
City business.
11.
Transportation
Officials traveling on City business shall use the most economical mode and 
class of transportation reasonably consistent with scheduling needs and 
cargo space requirements, using the most direct, time-efficient route. 
Government and group rates must be used when available.
C.
Expense Reports
1.
Expense reimbursement requests must be submitted on an expense report 
form provided by the City. Reports must document how the expenditure 
met the requirements of this policy.
2.
Expense reports must be submitted within 30 days of an expense being 
incurred; and must be accompanied by receipts documenting each 
expense. 
46 of 293

--- page 47 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
27
3.
Expense reports are a public record.
D.
Audits of Expenses
All expenses are subject to verification that they comply with this policy.
E.
Reports on Meetings
Each official shall briefly give an oral report on any Brown Act meetings they 
attended for which they receive expense reimbursement at their next City Council, 
Board, or Commission meeting.
F.
Violation of this Policy
Under state law, use of public resources or falsifying expense reports in violation 
of this policy may result in any or all of the following: 1) loss of reimbursement 
privileges, 2) a demand for restitution to the City, 3) the agency’s reporting the 
expenses as income to the official to state and federal tax authorities, 4) civil 
penalties of up to $1,000 per day and three times the value of the resources used, 
and 5) prosecution for misuse of public resources.
47 of 293

--- page 48 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
28
Chapter 10.
Communication
1.
All communications are public records. 
All letters, memoranda, email communications, texts and other social media platform 
writing involving City Council Members and members of boards, commissions, 
committees, and task forces, the subject of which relate to the conduct of government or 
the performance of any governmental function, with a few exceptions as outlined in the 
Public Records Act, are public records. 
2.
The Council, in adopting this policy, does not waive attorney-client privilege or any other 
privilege associated with a closed session authorized under the Ralph M. Brown Act. 
3.
Ralph M. Brown Act
Each Council Member should be mindful of all of the requirements of the Brown Act in 
communicating with each other.
4.
Mail Processing
A.
Members of the City Council may receive mail and other materials through City 
Hall. 
B.
City Clerk staff open all incoming mail for the Mayor and Council Members, unless 
it is labeled personal and confidential.
C.
City Clerk’s Office staff disseminate these materials to individual Council Members. 
City Staff will scan and email correspondence. 
D.
General correspondence addressed to Council Members as a whole will be opened 
and delivered to all Council Members. A correspondence addressed to a single 
Council Member on a topic that is the subject matter jurisdiction of the city and/or 
due to come on an upcoming agenda will be shared with all Council Members.
5.
Correspondence
A.
The City Clerk is authorized to receive and take administrative action on all 
correspondence directed to the City Council. The City Clerk may also respond to 
correspondence submitted to the full City Council on non-agenda items or 
authorize a staff member to respond. A courtesy copy is provided to each Council 
Member.
B.
Generally, correspondence relating to a specific City Council agenda item shall be 
distributed with the agenda report; correspondence received after the publication 
of the agenda packet will be compiled and distributed to the City Council prior to 
48 of 293

--- page 49 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
29
the City Council meeting (known as a Dais packet). This additional correspondence is 
appended to the Agenda Report as public comment on the public meeting portal and in 
the records repository permanent record. Any further correspondence received 
between posting of the Dais packet and until the end of when the item is heard, will also 
be appended to the Agenda report as supplemental correspondence.
C.
After the City Council has taken a position on an issue, official correspondence 
should reflect this position. While Council Members who may disagree with a 
position are free to prepare correspondence on such issues as private citizens, City 
letterhead, official City Council title, and staff support should not be utilized. 
D.
City letterhead, logo, insignia and brand, as well as staff support, cannot be 
utilized for personal or political purposes, See also Section 12 of this Chapter. 
6.
Electronic Communication Record Retention
A.
All emails sent and received through the City server are saved for at least three 
years on the City’s network and are subject to the Public Records Act.
B.
Communications on social media sites are saved for at least two years.
C.
Text messages sent on any City-provided device are saved for at least two years.
7.
Social Media Use as a Council Member
Social media are internet-based platforms that allow for interactive communication and 
engagement with the public. For example, these may include (without limitation): 
Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), Instagram, YouTube, TikTok, Snapchat, Nextdoor, blogs, 
etc.
The City’s image as a professional organization is critical to maintaining the respect of the 
public, and members should use discretion when posting or communicating on social 
media. If Council Members choose to maintain and use personal social media accounts to 
conduct City business, they must follow current federal and state regulations, as well as 
Council and City policies.
A.
Brown Act:  Social media postings may turn into an interactive dialogue. The 
Brown Act has expanded to provide guidance on elected officials’ use of media 
platforms that are free of charge and open and accessible to the public.
1.
Permitted Uses: You may answer questions, provide information to the 
public and solicit information from the public about city business; share a 
City post to your Council Member site; and tag other elected officials in a 
post.
49 of 293

--- page 50 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
30
2.
Prohibited Uses: A majority of the members may not use social media to 
discuss agency business and a member may not respond directly to any 
posting by another member regarding agency business including no ‘likes’ 
‘thumbs up’, ‘emojis’ or other symbols.
B.
First Amendment: Councilmember social media platforms can become public 
forums subject to First Amendment requirements. If a social media platform is 1) 
used for City business and 2) has interactive features that are accessible to the 
public without limitation, it is a public forum. The City’s Social Media Policy 
contains rules for public participation and addresses what will constitute 
unacceptable content. In general, officials may not block a member of the public 
from their social media sites if those sites have become public forums.  If 
unacceptable content appears on a site that has become a public forum, please 
consult with City staff.
C.
Public Records: Members are prohibited from deleting social media posts and 
related comments regarding any City-related matters to avoid violating the 
California Public Records Act. Social media is subject to the City’s record retention 
schedule.
D.
Best practices: Officials should be honest and accurate when posting information 
or news, especially when communicating during a crisis or emergency. Any 
mistakes, misstatements and/or factual errors must be corrected quickly upon 
discovery. News of citywide importance should first be announced by the official 
City-affiliated accounts then can be reshared by Council Members. Unless the 
member has been designated to serve as a spokesperson, members should never 
represent themselves as a spokesperson for the entire Council or City. Members 
should be mindful of recognizing that accomplishments of the City or Council are 
achieved by collective action of the entire body or organization, not by any 
individual council member.
E.
Quasi-Judicial Capacity: see Chapter 6 (Council Member Conduct) for rules 
addressing the use of social media when Council Members are acting in a quasi-
judicial capacity.
8.
Written Communications for Council Meetings
A.
The deadline for the receipt of written communications for inclusion in the agenda 
packet is up to 4:00 pm the Wednesday before the Council meeting. This is to 
allow for adequate staff review and analysis, and to ensure public access to 
information, all plans, correspondence, and other documents supporting any item 
being heard by the City Council. 
B.
To be included in the Dais packet, communication may be received up until 4:00 
pm the day of the scheduled meeting. 
50 of 293

--- page 51 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
31
C.
Materials distributed to Council Members during the meeting shall be available for 
viewing by the public during the meeting if the materials were prepared by the 
City or a Council Member, or at the conclusion of the meeting if prepared by 
another person.
D.
If a Council Member receives materials regarding an agenda item, they shall 
forward it to the City Clerk and the City Manager as soon as possible.
E.
If late correspondence is received, the City Council will determine at the meeting 
whether to continue or refer the item to the appropriate Board and/or 
Commission if significant changes to a project, or significant new information has 
become known.
9.
Council Communication to Boards and Commissions
A.
Council Members should be mindful not to unduly influence—through their 
attendance—the decision at a Board or Commission meeting so as to protect the 
independent process of that body.
B.
It is not appropriate for a Council Member to make public comments at a Board or 
Commission meeting.
10.
Council – Staff Relations
A.
Individual Council Members may make requests of City staff through the City 
Manager or Department Head for limited research and information without the 
formal concurrence of a majority of the members’ colleagues. Requests that will 
require significant staff time may be referred to the full Council and only pursued if 
supported by a majority of the Council.
B.
Council Members are encouraged to submit their questions on agenda items to 
the City Manager or Department Head (including copying the City Manager) as far 
in advance of the meeting as possible so that Staff can be prepared to respond at 
the Council meeting. 
C.
Council Members should direct any questions on agenda reports to the City 
Manager or their designee, usually the staff member presenting. 
D.
Clarifications or technical questions will be answered before the meeting 
whenever possible.
E.
Questions and all staff-prepared responses will be forwarded to all Council 
Members.
11.
Speaking for “the City”
51 of 293

--- page 52 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
32
Similar to written correspondence, when Council Members are requested to speak to 
groups or are asked the City Council’s position on an issue, the response should reflect the 
position of the City Council as a whole. Of course, a member may clarify their vote on a 
matter by stating, for example, “While I voted against X, the City Council voted in support 
of it.” When representing the City at meetings or other venues, it is important that those 
in attendance gain an understanding of the City Council’s position rather than that of an 
individual member.
12.
Speaking as an Individual
On occasion, Council Members may wish to transmit correspondence on an issue upon 
which the City Council has yet to take a position or about an issue for which the City 
Council has no position. In these circumstances, members should clearly indicate in their 
communications that they are not speaking for the City Council as a whole, but for 
themselves as an individual member of the Council. City letterhead and office support 
may be utilized in these circumstances, except it may not be used for personal or political 
purposes (see also 5(D) of this chapter). 
52 of 293

--- page 53 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
33
Chapter 11.
Legislative
1.
Council Legislative Committee
A.
It is the policy of the City Council that the Council be involved in the development 
of the City’s position on significant pending federal and state legislation that may 
directly impact the City of San Mateo.
B.
The offices of Mayor and Deputy Mayor are the Council’s Legislative Committee.
C.
The Legislative Committee may meet annually or as needed to evaluate and if 
needed make proposed modifications to the City’s legislative platform; and shall 
meet when necessary to develop recommendations for the City’s position on 
legislative matters. Proposed amendments to the City’s legislative platform shall 
require Council approval before adoption.
D.
The Committee’s recommendations shall be presented to the City Council for its 
consideration; if there is a pressing and urgent need to comment on pending 
legislation and getting approval in a City Council meeting is not practical, the 
Legislative Committee may take immediate action to communicate with legislators 
and copy the entire City Council on the communication and provide a brief report 
of action taken under Reports and Announcements at the next City Council 
meeting.
E.
In accordance with the City Council approved legislative platform, City staff will be 
responsible to work in coordination with the Legislative Committee, staff will be 
responsible for coordinating with the Legislative Committee and relevant City 
departments, and may also engage external legislative support as appropriate to:
I.
Continuously review and evaluate legislative proposals for alignment with 
the City Council’s adopted legislative platform.
II.
Make recommendations on appropriate advocacy positions, such as support, 
oppose, oppose unless amended, neutral, watch, and sponsor/co-sponsor, 
which are consistent with the adopted legislative platform.
III.
Draft advocacy letters consisted with the adopted legislative platform.
IV.
Engage with appropriate State and Federal officials on legislation in which 
the City has taken an advocacy position.
F.
Pending legislation for consideration by the Legislative Committee can be 
submitted to the Committee by a Council Member, or the City Manager. 
G.
If an advocacy position is substantially aligned with the City Council’s adopted 
legislative platform, or where there are extenuated circumstances related to time-
sensitive legislative deadlines, or developments potentially leading to significantly 
53 of 293

--- page 54 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
34
determinantal impacts to the City’s finances, responsibilities, legal authority, discretion, 
or operations, the City Manager is authorized to request that the Mayor, or in the 
absence of the Mayor, the Deputy Mayor, sign advocacy letters on legislation of interest 
without taking the item to the Legislative Committee or City Council for approval. In 
such cases, a copy of the correspondence shall be provided to the full City Council and a 
brief report of action taken will be provided under Reports and Announcements at the 
next City Council meeting.
H.
This policy is not intended to limit the prerogative of individual Councilmembers 
from expressing their individual support for or opposition to any Local measure, or 
State proposition, State or Federal legislation. However, in doing so, the member 
shall clearly state that they are speaking for themselves, not on behalf of the 
Council body or the City collectively (see Chapter 10, sub-section section 11). 
When acting in individual capacity, Councilmembers shall do so in accordance with 
other City Council policies. 
I.
The Council shall direct the Mayor or other City official to communicate the City’s 
position on legislative matters to the appropriate legislative bodies.
2.
Ceremonial Matters
A.
There are several different types of action the Council may take to provide 
recognition or express appreciation:
I.
Certifications of Appreciation or Recognition
Commendations typically issued to acknowledge the activities of a person 
or organization. These certificates may be issued by any member of the 
Council without formal action. Examples of traditional recipients would 
include departing Board and Commission Members, high school students 
with 4.0 grade point averages, Chamber of Commerce Outstanding 
Businesses Awards, recognizing Eagle Scouts, winners of local art or speech 
contests, etc.
II.
Commendatory Resolutions
Typically used to handle matters requiring some type of formal 
memorialization such as the retirement of a long-tenured employee, or 
outgoing Mayor or Council Member. These are not voted on like a standard 
Resolution of Council action would be.
III.
Proclamations
Public announcements directing attention to a person, organization, or 
event. Proclamations will be issued subject to the policy described below.
54 of 293

--- page 55 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
35
B.
Preparation of City Proclamations
I.
It is the policy of the City Council to issue proclamations for certain events or 
causes, when such a proclamation positively impacts the community and 
conveys an affirmative message to residents. Examples of causes for which 
proclamations are regularly and routinely issued include, but are not limited 
to: notable accomplishments by citizens, youth groups, schools, local 
organizations, non-profit groups, and local events that deserve special 
recognition. Discretion should be used in determining whether or not to 
issue a proclamation. Proclamations that are political in nature, are 
controversial, or that likely would not enjoy a high level of community 
interest and support, are discouraged. 
II.
It will be the policy of the City Council to process requests for proclamations 
in the following manner:
a.
The City Clerk will review the request with the Mayor. 
b.
If the Mayor determines that the proclamation request is consistent 
with the policy stated above, the Mayor will direct the City Clerk to 
prepare the proclamation and the proclamation will be issued.
c.
If the Mayor determines the proclamation request is not consistent 
with the policy stated above, the request will be routed to the other 
Council Members to determine if there is interest in issuing the 
proclamation.
d.
If a Council Member has interest in issuing the proclamation that 
the Mayor determined was not consistent with this policy, that 
Council Member will sponsor the item and shall be responsible for 
drafting the language to be contained in the proclamation. The 
sponsor Council Member shall provide the draft proclamation 
language to the City Clerk.
e.
Upon receipt of the draft proclamation language, the City Clerk will 
place the item for consideration to considering issuing the 
proclamation on the Consent Calendar at the next available 
meeting. The proclamation will be issued upon a majority vote of 
the Council in support of issuing the proclamation. Depending on 
the nature and time-sensitivity of the request, the Mayor and 
Deputy Mayor can act without full formal concurrence of the 
Council when the situation warrants.
55 of 293

--- page 56 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
36
Chapter 12.
Council Liaison Roles
1.
The City Council will collectively review and approve liaison appointments. The 
recommended appointments will, to the best of the Council’s ability, attempt to match 
the requested positions with the needs of the respective body and the experience of the 
Council Member, while also attempting to equitably balance the distribution of 
assignments.
2.
It is generally suggested that newly elected Council Members undertake a limited number 
of assignments during their first year, to allow opportunity to gain familiarity with the 
obligations and expectations of the role.
3.
The assignment of City Council liaisons is conducted annually according to the following 
process:
A.
Following the reorganization in December, the City Clerk will distribute a memo to 
each Council Member which will include a list of potential liaison assignments. 
B.
Each Council Member will complete the list in a manner which prioritizes the 
assignments of interest to them; and will submit their list only to the City Clerk in 
December.
C.
The ranking process uses the following methodology:
1.
Top priority = I really want this (please mark at most only two #1s)
2.
This is something I would like to have
3.
I’ll take this one for the team
4.
I do not want (perhaps the meeting timing does not work for you)
D.
The City Clerk will assemble responses into a table and provide it to the Mayor. The 
Mayor uses the following additional criteria to make assignments: Continuity 
assignments remain with the assignee unless the member is opting to step down 
from the role (see section 5 below); assignments will be assigned by highest priority 
desired with 1’s first, 2’s second etc.; in case of ties, overall balance and then 
seniority will be taken into account. For example, did the Council Member get their 
other first choice? Does the Council Member have other “plum” continuity 
assignments; ideally, everyone will get at least one of their top priorities; and the 
Council Member does not need to use their  top rankings to hold onto continuity 
assignments.
E.
In the event that a liaison has not been identified for each commission, the Mayor 
will divide any remaining liaison positions amongst the Council, attempting to 
equitably balance the distribution of the assignments and associated workload. 
56 of 293

--- page 57 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
37
F.
The Mayor, working with the City Manager and City Clerk, will utilize the responses 
to present an Agenda Report and conduct a discussion at the first meeting in 
January regarding the liaison appointments.
G.
The Mayor and Deputy Mayor have traditionally been assigned to the following 
bodies:
1.
City Council Legislative Committee - ordered by Resolution 158 (1981)
2.
City Budget and Audit Committee
3.
Planning Commission
4.
Council of Cities – City Selection Committee (Mayor with Deputy Mayor as 
alternate)
5.
Honorary Chair of Sister Cities Association (Mayor)
H.
The City Clerk shall maintain a list of all such appointments. The final liaison list will 
be distributed to all Council Members and posted on the City’s website.
4.
Liaison to the City’s Boards and Commissions
A.
Each of the City’s Boards and Commissions has a Council Member who serves as its 
Council liaison.
B.
Council Members should act as an advisor and resource to commissioners and the 
commission’s staff liaison when issues regarding process, procedure, attendance, 
interpersonal or public relations arise. 
C.
The Council liaison serves on the Appointment Subcommittee for the Commission 
to which they are assigned. In the event the Mayor is serving as the commission’s 
liaison, the minimum subcommittee shall consist of the Mayor and Deputy Mayor.
5.
Continuity Appointments to External Agencies
A.
The City Council has identified certain appointments for which there is a strong 
need and desire for consistency and continuity in terms of Council participation and 
representation. The Mayor will maintain the current Council Member assigned as 
liaison to that body. The Council will have an opportunity at its annual review to see 
if a supplemental designation is needed due to changing conditions or if new bodies 
have been added to the list.  All continuity appointments should also have an 
alternate assigned, so a member can be ready to take over the role if needed. 
B.
Liaison appointments to these bodies would not annually be reassigned to another 
Council Member, as this would not provide the desired consistency. If it became 
necessary to reassign the liaison for one of these bodies as the result of a vacancy 
or other reason, the liaison role would not typically be assigned to a newly elected 
Council Member. A Council Member with an interest in serving as liaison to any of 
57 of 293

--- page 58 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
38
these continuity bodies should confer with the current representative; and consider 
acting as an alternate or “shadowing” the current liaison for a time to learn more about 
the body’s functions and duties. 
C.
If a Council Member who is assigned as liaison to one of the aforementioned bodies 
anticipates leaving office, every effort should be made to mentor another Council 
Member so that those critical relationships can continue uninterrupted.
6.
Council of Cities Appointments
A.
In the case of appointments made by the regional Council of Cities - City Selection 
Committee, upon receipt of the City Selection Committee agenda packet listing all 
positions and nominees to be voted on, if time allows, the City Council may 
schedule a special meeting prior to the Council of Cities meeting to discuss and 
agree upon preferred appointees. This will allow the Mayor, or their proxy, to have 
clear direction on whom to vote for that reflects the best interest of the City. If 
scheduling a meeting is not practical, the Mayor and Deputy Mayor may confer on 
the vote. In the case of nominations from the floor at the City Selection voting 
meeting, the Mayor, or their proxy, will vote their conscience based on the 
feedback previously given by the City Council as a whole. In December, every year 
upon the Mayor’s rotation, a standing proxy shall be filled out and filed with the 
City Selection Committee for the year naming who may vote in the Mayor’s 
absence. The Deputy Mayor will be given first priority followed by any Council 
Member who has the most latitude and ability to attend the meetings.
58 of 293

--- page 59 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
39
Chapter 13.
Boards and Commissions
1.
Refer to the San Mateo City Charter Article VI on Boards and Commissions.
2.
Council Members should refrain from participation at Board and Commission meetings to 
avoid influencing the outcome of those meetings.
3.
Reappointments, Vacancies, and Appointments
A.
The City Clerk’s Office manages the Boards and Commissions (hereafter referred 
to as “Commission” for ease of reference) application process. The process begins 
with the Clerk contacting members who are eligible for appointment to a second 
term and finding out their interest in reappointment. 
B.
The City Clerk then shares the results with each appointment subcommittee and 
receives direction on the need to schedule an agendized appointment 
subcommittee meeting to provide direction on reappointments. The default is that 
currently serving Commissioners will each be interviewed for reappointment. 
However, if it is determined that a Commissioner’s performance is outstanding, or 
that other factors necessitate keeping them in their role, then an automatic 
reappointment can occur with a majority vote or majority consensus of the City 
Council. Any Commission seat selected for re-interviews, means the seat will be 
processed as part of the full annual recruitment and the currently sitting 
commissioner may be interviewed along with other applicants.   
C.
The City Clerk recruits for all open seats utilizing multiple avenues including: 
advertising, website, social media, and networking lists to present qualified 
candidates to the Council for consideration.
D.
The interview and selection of candidates is an open process.
E.
The City Clerk receives the applications (ideally a minimum of three applications is 
sought for each vacant seat) and arranges for the appropriate subcommittee, in a 
noticed special meeting, to interview applicants and form their recommendation.
F.
Commissioners, Board and committee members (hereafter referred to as 
“Commissioners” for ease of reference) are appointed by a majority vote of the 
City Council and serve staggered terms.
G.
An “Appointment subcommittee” may include up to five City Council members. 
The City Council shall appoint the members of the Appointment subcommittee. As 
a minimum, the Appointment subcommittee shall include and a quorum shall be 
established as: 1) the Mayor (or their Council designee) and the Council liaison to 
the Commission. The Department Head affiliated with that Commission shall 
participate as a non-voting member of the Appointment subcommittee.
59 of 293

--- page 60 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
40
H.
Except when reappointment is recommended, or an established eligibility list is 
used, the Appointment subcommittee shall conduct candidate interviews and 
make a recommendation for Council approval. Interviews shall be conducted in a 
noticed public meeting with at least a quorum of the Appointment subcommittee 
present.
I.
At the conclusion of an Appointment subcommittee’s interviews of candidates, 
and the agreement on the recommended candidate, the appointment 
subcommittee may then designate up to two applicants who would be considered 
for listing on the eligibility list for a six-month period. The eligibility list is then 
ranked according to preferred next seating to a Commission vacancy. The list is 
only established with the full agreement of the Appointment subcommittee. It is 
not a requirement that an eligibility list be established if there are not applicants 
that are deemed qualified. This list may be used for automatic next appointments 
in the event of an unscheduled vacancy, the next person on the eligibility list 
would be submitted as the recommended candidate from the Appointment 
subcommittee on the next City Council regular meeting Consent Calendar. 
J.
The full Council will receive the Appointment subcommittee’s recommendation 
and the full list of candidates for each opening. 
K.
The Appointment subcommittee recommendations for new and reappointed 
Commissioners are confirmed by Council under the Consent Calendar at regular 
Council meetings. An agenda report summarizing the Subcommittee’s 
recommendations, including the full list of candidates reviewed for each opening, 
will be provided to the full City Council. Council may adopt the recommendations 
as presented or pull the item for further discussion. The City Council can consider 
for appointment any of the candidates interviewed.
L.
A majority vote of Council approves the appointees. 
M.
Commission recruitment begins annually in the month of March, and completes in 
May, in order to ensure continuity on commissions before terms end June 10th. 
N.
Unscheduled Vacancies
1.
Subject to the Maddy Act (California Government Code § 54970), if an 
unscheduled vacancy occurs on a commission, the Council may either 
appoint from the pool of applicants on file (the eligibility list if there is one 
available) or open up the position to new applications where the above 
process is followed.
2.
For such non-routine vacancies, the announcement for new applications is 
made as soon as possible in order to maintain viable memberships on the 
various boards and commissions.
60 of 293

--- page 61 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
41
3.
All appointments occur in an open public meeting.
O.
Youth Activities Council (YAC) Selection Process
The YAC is not appointed directly by the City Council but through an application 
method administered by the Parks and Recreation Department. High school 
students from all of the City’s public high schools, as well as Junipero Serra High 
School and Nueva Upper School, are recruited for potential participation starting 
in the late spring of each year.
61 of 293

--- page 62 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
42
Chapter 14.
References
1.
San Mateo City Charter, §2.03, 2.04, 2.12, Article VI
2.
Ralph M. Brown Act (California Government Code, § 54950 et seq.)
3.
California Government Code, § 53234 et seq.
4.
San Mateo Municipal Code
5.
California Public Records Act (California Government Code, § 6250 et seq.)
6.
AB 1234 California Government Code, § 53232.3
7.
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order
8.
Emergency Guide for Elected Officials
Prior Revisions: January 17, 2017, April 17, 2017, April 16, 2018, May 21, 2018, May 3, 2021, 
February 22, 2022, October 17, 2022, April 1, 2024, and July 15, 2024.
62 of 293

--- page 63 ---
City Council Rules and Procedures 
Adopted on August 17, 2015
by Resolution No. 82 (2015)
Last Amended by Council action on: 
17, 2017, April 17, 2017, April 16, 2018, May 21, 2018, May 3, 2021, 
February 22, 2022, October 17, 2022, April 1, 2024, July 15, 2024, and June 16, 2025
63 of 293

--- page 64 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
2
City of San Mateo Council Rules and Procedures
Table of Contents
Chapter 1.
Purpose and Overview .............................................................................................3
Chapter 2.
Authority of the City Council ....................................................................................4
Chapter 3.
Key Governance Principles .......................................................................................5
Chapter 4.
Duties .......................................................................................................................7
Chapter 5.
Selection of Mayor and Deputy Mayor ..................................................................10
Chapter 6.
Council Member Conduct.......................................................................................12
Chapter 7.
Meetings.................................................................................................................15
Chapter 8.
Meeting Agendas....................................................................................................20
Chapter 9.
Financial Matters....................................................................................................23
Chapter 10. Communication ......................................................................................................28
Chapter 11. Legislative...............................................................................................................33
Chapter 12. Council Liaison Roles ..............................................................................................37
Chapter 13. Boards and Commissions........................................................................................40
Chapter 14. References..............................................................................................................43
64 of 293

--- page 65 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
3
Chapter 1.
Purpose and Overview 
This handbook describes the way for the San Mateo City Council to conduct its business and the 
expectations for members, staff, and the public to operate and engage with each other and the 
community as a whole. It is a compilation of all Council-related rules and procedures that have 
been formally adopted by Council. 
The purpose of these Rules and Procedures (Rules) is to set a standard of professionalism, 
civility, and decorum for the conduct of the City Council’s business. San Mateo has a long and 
proud tradition of open government and civil, intelligent public discourse. These rules are 
intended to enhance public participation and Council debate so that the best possible decisions 
can be made for San Mateo. 
Revisions to these Rules and Procedures
Amendments to these Rules must be approved by the City Council as a body and are subject to 
review and future modification as needed.
City Council Vision
The City Council’s vision and strategic goals can be found on the City’s website:
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?nid=167
65 of 293

--- page 66 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
4
Chapter 2.
Authority of the City Council
1.
The City Council is the policy and lawmaking body of the City. State and local laws define 
the powers and responsibilities of the City Council.
2.
General Authorities and Applicability
Charter section 2.12 and the San Mateo Municipal Code provide that the City Council shall 
determine its own rules and order of business. When not in conflict with the Charter of 
the City of San Mateo, or the Constitution, or laws of the State of California, these City 
Council Rules shall be in effect upon adoption by resolution of the Council.
3.
Revisions to these Rules
The Council shall review and revise these Rules as needed.
4.
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order
To the extent these Rules do not address an issue of parliamentary procedure for 
legislative body meetings, Rosenberg’s Rules of Order: Simple Parliamentary Procedures 
for the 21st Century, shall apply.
66 of 293

--- page 67 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
5
Chapter 3.
Key Governance Principles
In 2022, the City conducted its first by-district election for City Council members.  , with 
dDistricts 1, 3, and 5 holding held district elections in November 2022 and dDistricts 2 and 4 to 
hold held its first district elections in November 2024. This new election process changes how 
council members are elected, but not how they govern. It is the intent of the City Council to 
continue the practice of governing with a citywide perspective. The City Council acts as a body, 
not as individuals. An overriding principle is that all members of the City Council continue to 
serve all of the people of San Mateo.
Key Governance Principles
1.
Serving the Entire Community
A.
The City Council wishes to remain united in its service to the community and will 
govern by considering the needs and interests of the community as a whole.
B.
Members of the City Council will continue to serve all residents, regardless of 
whether they live within their district. Members of the City Council may be 
responsive to requests from anyone in the community.
2.
City Management and Governance
Professional management in a Council-Manager form of government will continue with all 
of the best management practices that the City Council currently receives. 
3.
Use of City Resources
A.
The City Council will strive to use taxpayer resources efficiently and effectively 
while providing consistent services for all residents. Resources will be allocated 
based on the City’s long-term strategic plan and citywide considerations of service 
levels and financial capacity. 
B.
Budget allocations and financial considerations will not be made based on districts.
4.
Distribution of Council Duties and Events
Fair distribution of duties and assignments is a priority. Long-standing practices regarding 
invitations to members of the City Council to events and activities, appointments to 
committees and various bodies, and the process for board and commission appointments, 
will remain in effect.
A.
When Council Member attendance at events is limited due to Brown Act 
considerations, priority for attendance should align with (1) the Mayor, or Deputy 
Mayor if the Mayor is unavailable, and (2) the Council liaison most closely 
67 of 293

--- page 68 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
6
associated with the relevant board, commission, or policy area or the Council Member 
elected by the district most directly impacted by the subject of the meeting.
5.
Communications and Access to Information
A.
Council members will have equal access to information. Information necessary for 
the City Council to govern on a citywide basis will be shared with all City 
Councilmembers.
B.
Communication resources will be provided on a citywide and/or program-level 
basis with equitable distribution across districts, while being consistent with legal 
requirements prohibiting the use of public resources for campaign purposes
 
68 of 293

--- page 69 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
7
Chapter 4.
Duties
1.
Duties of the Council
A.
Refer to the Charter of the City of San Mateo for a detailed description of codified 
duties of the City Council.
B.
Disaster Responsibilities
1.
In the event of a disaster, the City Council holds the following roles:
a.
Primarily, to make decisions that will enable  emergency operations 
to continue effectively.
b.
To assist in the conveyance of public information.
2.
Reference the “Elected Officials’ Guide to Managing Disasters” from the 
California Office of Emergency Services for a detailed description of the 
roles and responsibilities of Council Members in times of disaster. 
2.
Duties of Mayor
A.
To conduct meetings of the City Council as its chairperson.
1.
Ensure that consideration of items on the agenda move along without 
delay.
2.
Ensure that petitioners, proponents and opponents, are heard but not 
allowed to disrupt the meeting. 
3.
Ensure that decorum and civility is maintained during the meeting.
4.
In presiding over matters where the public has provided comment or 
testimony and/or raised questions, the Mayor should:
a.
At the end of the public comment period restate, if any,  relevant 
questions raised from the public and direct questions or comments 
requiring a response to staff for a response. 
b.
Ensure that staff and members of the public direct their comments 
to the presiding officer and members.
c.
Help keep Council Member questions and comments relevant to 
the matter being considered by the Council.
69 of 293

--- page 70 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
8
d.
Consider calling for a brief recess if orderly conduct of the meeting 
is being disrupted. 
e.
Announce the decision and vote of the Council on all items, this 
may occur with the assistance of the City Clerk, the City Manager, 
City Attorney, or key staff presenting.
5.
To ensure that each member of the Council is provided an opportunity to 
completely express their views on items of business, the Mayor should:
a.
Actively seek Council Member comments and ensure that Council 
Members ask to be recognized by the Mayor before speaking to 
maintain an orderly process on the dais.
b.
Make sure that each Council Member has had a first chance at 
providing comments, before allowing a Council Member to make 
another statement – unless they are asked to clarify their prior 
statement.
c.
Ensure that each Council Member is given the opportunity to fully 
express their views.
B.
To represent City Government as its chief elected official at community functions, 
events, meetings, and business outreach and retention visits.
C.
On behalf of the City Council, to officially welcome dignitaries, officials, and special 
event gatherings.
D.
To vote on behalf of the Council at regional meetings such as the San Mateo 
County Council of Cities/City Selection Committee, provided that the vote is not 
inconsistent with established policies or previously expressed Council consensus. 
This is expected protocol for any Council Member who represents the City on any 
regional bodies.
E.
To correspond on behalf of the Council on subjects, issues, and legislative 
proposals provided that opinions expressed on behalf of the Council or City 
Government are not inconsistent with established policies or previously expressed 
Council consensus. 
F.
To vote as the City’s “voting delegate” at the League of California Cities Annual 
Conference and other similar meetings. This responsibility may be delegated to 
another Council Member by action of the City Council.
G.
To review the agendas of meetings of the City Council and participate in their 
preparation as necessary.
70 of 293

--- page 71 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
9
H.
To recommend Council Members for liaison positions on various boards, 
commissions and agencies. The Mayor’s recommendations shall be discussed and 
confirmed by a majority vote of the Council and are subject to change.
I.
To serve as the City’s primary media spokesperson in coordination with City staff. 
Appropriate City staff should always be alerted to media contact.
J.
Nothing under the Mayor’s duties shall limit any individual Council Member’s 
ability to interact with members of the public.
K.
The Mayor is still subject to all duties of Council Members as listed below in 
number 4.
3.
Duties of Deputy Mayor
In the absence of the Mayor from the City or a Council meeting, the Deputy Mayor shall 
possess all powers of the office of the Mayor; and be subject to all prescribed duties for 
that office.
4.
Duties of Council Members
A.
Arrive on time for all Council meetings.
B.
Review all meeting materials in preparation for Council meetings, and direct 
questions to staff (before meetings, whenever practical) if any item is unclear or 
clarification is needed. 
C.
Alert staff in advance of the meeting whenever possible if an item is intended to 
be pulled off of the Consent Calendar or introduced under Reports and 
Announcements for future Council consideration.
D.
Fulfill the appointed and liaison assignments to internal and external agencies, 
legislators, and the City’s boards and commissions, with all due diligence needed 
for the requirements of that particular assignment. 
E.
It is the responsibility of all members to assist the Mayor in running an efficient 
and effective meeting by assisting with the orderly disposition of items, helping 
ensure all members are heard, participating fully in meaningful discussion and 
deliberation, keeping comments succinct, concise, civil and germane, and limiting 
repetitive comments. Council members are encouraged to hold their colleagues 
accountable for following these rules and do all in their power to contribute to the 
smooth running of a meeting for the community.
F.
All Council Members are asked to alert appropriate staff when receiving media 
inquiries.
71 of 293

--- page 72 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
10
Chapter 5.
Selection of Mayor and Deputy Mayor
1.
City Council reorganization, including rotation of the office of Mayor and Deputy Mayor 
occurs annually at the regular meeting in December. 
2.
The City Council believes that experience as a Council Member will assist those who are 
selected to serve as Mayor or Deputy Mayor, and that it is in the City’s best interest that 
these selections be made in a manner that permits the Mayor and Deputy Mayor to gain 
that experience in cycles of governing and to acclimate themselves to the jobs, tasks, and 
roles prior to assuming their respective offices. 
3.
It is appropriate to base such succession on rotation and seniority according to the 
following:
A.
Each Council Member has a specified position in the rotation sequence. In any 
year, the first person in the sequence is typically selected as Mayor, and the 
second in the sequence as the Deputy Mayor. 
B.
After serving as Mayor, that Council Member moves to the end of the rotation 
sequence, and the other four Council Members move forward.
C.
When a Council Member is newly elected or appointed (as the result of a cancelled 
election), that new Council Member goes into the fourth position in the rotation, 
after all incumbents, but before the current outgoing Mayor. 
D.
If two or more Council Members are newly elected or appointed at the same time, 
the newly elected or appointed Council Members shall draw lots to determine 
their position relative to one another in the rotational sequence. 
E.
If a Council Member is appointed to fill a mid-term vacancy, that Council Member 
will go to the end of the rotational list.
F.
Incumbent Council Members, when re-elected, do not begin anew at the end of 
the list, but rather retain their placement in the rotation.
G.
If for any reason (death, resignation, recall, not seeking re-election, etc.) a Council 
Member is removed from the rotation, the remaining Council Members move 
forward in the sequence. 
H.
A Council Member may decline to serve as Mayor or Deputy Mayor. In this case, 
the office would pass to the next Council Member on the list. The Council Member 
who declined will drop back one position in the rotation.
72 of 293

--- page 73 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
11
4.
When the Council reorganizes, the outgoing Mayor will nominate the Deputy Mayor to 
succeed him/her. The newly appointed Mayor will then nominate the next Council 
Member in the rotational sequence to serve as Deputy Mayor for the coming year.
5.
The process described above shall guide the Council’s selection of the Mayor and Deputy 
Mayor; however, a majority of the City Council retains the authority to disregard the 
process and select any member of the City Council for these positions.
6.
The City Clerk shall keep a list outlining the rotational sequence and update it annually.
73 of 293

--- page 74 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
12
Chapter 6.
Council Member Conduct
1.
Council Members are committed to governing for all, striving to avoid any appearance of 
impropriety, and running our meetings with civility, decorum, and respect. With that 
spirit, San Mateo Council Members shall:
A.
Govern as a body. If we work together well as a team, our City will excel. 
B.
Treat all with dignity, courtesy, and respect. This includes staff, each other, or 
members of the public, on and off the dais. 
C.
Keep confidential matters confidential. 
D.
Respect process and roles. This includes avoiding interruptions and distractions. 
E.
Agree to disagree in a respectful manner. We focus on the issue not the person. 
F.
Keep our comments clear, concise, and on-topic. This respects our colleagues’, the 
public’s, and staffs’ time. 
G.
Give each other a chance to speak. Everyone gets to speak before another of us 
speaks for a second time. We refrain from dominating the discussion. 
H.
The Mayor normally speaks last. After other members of the Council have offered 
their opinions, the Mayor speaks. The Mayor can speak after each round of 
speaking by Council Members. 
I.
Be mindful of the impact of our words and tone. We consider this as we address 
each other, staff, and the public. 
J.
Promote discussion and resolution. We present problems and issues in that way. 
K.
Follow the agenda. We begin and end meetings on time. 
L.
Respect the City Charter, rule of law, and decisions once made. We do not attempt 
to undermine decisions. 
M.
Speak for the City only when specifically authorized. 
N.
Practice a “no surprises” rule. We give a heads up to the City Manager and City 
Attorney out of respect and teamwork. 
O.
Practice the principles of inclusivity and self-awareness to guard against implicit 
bias in our actions and decisions. 
74 of 293

--- page 75 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
13
P.
Adhere to all federal, state, and local laws in the performance of their public 
duties, including conflict-of-interest laws. 
Q.
Pay close attention to the meeting and limit the use of electronic devices while on 
the dais, except as necessary to access agenda materials or respond to urgent 
personal matters.
R.
When acting in a quasi-judicial capacity: keep an open mind, do not rush to pre-
judge any matter, and be fair and neutral towards all concerned parties. This 
applies to statements that are verbal and written, including those posts on social 
media. At the beginning of the hearing, disclose any ex parte communications (oral 
or written from one party outside of the hearing) and describe the nature and 
substance of the communication.
2.
Council Members shall not participate as a volunteer in any of the City’s operating 
departments.
3.
Council Members are subject to all the provisions of the City’s Harassment, Discrimination 
and Reasonable Accommodations for Disabilities Policy (#301).
4.
Council Members shall complete ethics training as required by state law.
5.
Enforcement.
A.
Where a Council member is allegedly not following the rules set forth in this 
Chapter (“Code of Conduct”), any concerned Council member is encouraged to 
resolve the matter on an informal basis through direct conversations, or by 
referral to the Mayor (or the Deputy Mayor if the Mayor’s conduct is at issue) to 
privately counsel the subject Council member.  
B.
If the offense(s) continue, or if warranted due to the serious nature of an initial 
violation, two Council members may file a complaint regarding the conduct of 
another Council Member for an alleged violation of the Code of Conduct.  The 
complaint shall be in writing and filed with the City Clerk, with a copy to the City 
Manager and City Attorney.  A copy of the complaint shall be promptly provided to 
the Council.  The City Clerk shall place the complaint on the next available City 
Council agenda for initial consideration.  The Council member who is the subject of 
the complaint may include a written response to be included with the agenda 
packet or may verbally address the complaint at the Council meeting, or both.  
C.
At the meeting where the complaint is considered, a Council majority (3 votes) 
shall decide whether to (1) take no action, (2) reprimand the subject Council 
member and require them to promptly take ethics training (in addition to any 
training required by law), or (3) schedule the matter for a future hearing to 
consider a formal resolution of censure, revoke seniority and/or committee 
75 of 293

--- page 76 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
14
assignments (both internal and inter-governmental), and/or restrict payment of 
expenses such as for official travel.  Alternatively, the Council may direct the City 
Manager or City Attorney to investigate the matter, or to engage a third party to do 
so, and bring it back to the Council following completion of the investigation.  
D.
If a Council majority (3 votes) directs the scheduling of a hearing, it should also 
appoint one or two Council members to draft a censure resolution to be included 
with the agenda packet.  At the hearing, the Council member who is the subject of 
the complaint shall have the opportunity to rebut the allegations in the report 
either themselves or through a representative.  The formal rules of evidence shall 
not apply, and the hearing shall be generally informal.  
E.
At the close of the hearing, a Council majority (3 votes) shall decide whether to:  
(1) take no action, (2) issue a reprimand and require the Council member to 
promptly take ethics training (beyond what is required by law), or (3) adopt a 
censure resolution, revoke seniority and/or committee assignments (both internal 
and inter-governmental) and/or restrict payment of expenses such as for official 
travel.  Any action taken by the Council is final and is not subject to appeal or 
reconsideration.  
76 of 293

--- page 77 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
15
Chapter 7.
Meetings
1.
All Council decisions must be taken at City Council meetings only after hearing the 
presentation, project applicants, and hearing all public comments/testimony, then only 
under council discussion with colleagues should Council Member opinions be shared and 
deliberations engaged in before making any decision or taking action.
2.
No business may be transacted by the Council at a regular or special meeting unless a 
quorum of the membership is present (50% plus one of those currently serving).
3.
Council Meeting Dates
A.
If at any time any regular meeting of the Council falls on a holiday, the regular 
meeting shall be held on the next business day or the earliest business day within 
a week.
B.
Once a year, adopt a schedule of Council meetings for the following year 
identifying any regular meeting dates that need to move due to major holidays or 
other conflicts.
C.
Meeting dates may be amended with the approval of the Council.
4.
Types of Meetings
A.
Regular Meetings are conducted at City Hall Council Chambers on the first and 
third Monday nights of each month. In July, August, and December, only one 
meeting is held during the month. The regular meetings are held not earlier than 
6:30 pm.  It is City policy to make every effort to complete and distribute the 
agenda and related reports by the preceding Thursday. For major complex projects 
and policies, the City will make every effort to distribute reports as early as 
possible before the meeting when the item will be considered.
B.
Special Meetings are called at a non-regular meeting date and time. They are 
called by the Mayor or Council with a minimum of 24 hours’ notice, versus 72 
hours’ notice for regular meetings.
C.
Study Sessions are special meetings that are held for the purpose of providing 
information to the City Council, particularly on issues that are more complex or 
more time-consuming than matters typically scheduled on a regular City Council 
meeting. At study sessions, Council Members may state their individual responses 
and questions to the information provided and may collectively provide direction 
to City staff. No action is taken at the study sessions, but direction may be given.
D.
Closed Sessions can be part of either special or regular meetings. The Council 
conducts its business in public to the greatest extent possible. State law recognizes 
77 of 293

--- page 78 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
16
that public discussion of certain items could jeopardize the public interest, compromise 
the City’s position, or cost the citizens of San Mateo financially, and, therefore; generally 
allows the City Council to hold closed session meetings for the consideration of certain 
personnel matters, labor negotiations, real property negotiations, matters of public 
security, and the discussion of litigation, among other things. These rules provide for 
strict confidentiality of City Council discussion as required by State law. The procedures 
for the conduct of the closed sessions shall be the same as those for open session 
meetings, except that the public, after an opportunity for public comment, are excluded.
E.
Emergency Meetings are allowed per the Ralph M. Brown Act when an emergency 
situation involving matters upon which prompt action is necessary due to the 
disruption or threatened disruption of the public’s well-being. 
F.
Adjourned Meetings due to Power Outages. In the event a quorum of thethat the 
location of a City Council meeting loses electrical power or suffers an internet 
connection outage not corrected within 15 minutes, the meeting may be 
adjourned to a date certain. Any items noticed as public hearings will be continued 
to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the City Council. Any other agenda 
items the Council has not taken action on will be placed on a future agenda.
5.
Voting
A motion, second, and a majority vote of the Council shall be required for any formal 
action of Council unless the law or charter require a different threshold.
6.
The Mayor, with the approval of a majority of the Council, may change the order of 
hearing of items on the agenda. Staff may make suggestions on the order due to practical 
and logistical issues.
7.
Public Participation
A.
Members of the public are encouraged and invited to participate in the legislative 
process by submitting written comments before the meeting or speaking in person 
or virtually when offered, at a meeting.
B.
It is the intent of these rules to allow everyone to be heard without fear of jeers or 
cheers that may discourage public participation. For this reason, these rules are 
taken seriously. Disruptive or unruly behavior may result in removal from the 
Council meeting.
C.
Public meetings are considered a limited public forum in which speakers must stay 
on-topic if speaking to a particular agenda item. If speaking during general public 
comment, they must address matters within the subject matter jurisdiction of the 
78 of 293

--- page 79 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
17
City. If speakers fail to follow these rules, they will be warned, and if they continue to 
disregard the rules, their opportunity to speak will be ended.
D.
The Mayor may, at their discretion with Council concurrence, limit the amount of 
time allotted to speakers when needed, per the following time limits.
E.
Generally, time limits for public comment are dependent on the number of 
speakers:
1.
Individual Speakers: 
•
between 1 -10: 3 minutes
•
between 11-20: 2 minutes
•
over 21 speakers: 1 minute
2.
Organized group (in lieu of individual speakers of the group) – up to five (5) 
minutes for a group presentation, with as many speakers as can be 
accommodated within that time allowance. To qualify for a group 
presentation, all individuals associated with the presentation must be 
clearly identified and confirmed as in attendance at the meeting. as many 
speakers are allowed as fit in that time allowance.
3.
Yielding of Time. To ensure that all persons have an ample opportunity to 
be heard, all speakers will be recognized for the same amount of time. No 
speaker will be allowed to yield all or part of their time to another, and no 
speaker will be credited with time requested but not used by another.
F.
Members of the public are invited to speak at the lectern microphone to ensure all 
attendees, in person and remote, can adequately hear comments, and so that it 
can be captured on the video recording.
F.G. Presentation Materials – Videos, slide shows, and other visual materials may be 
used during public comment or group presentations, provided they do not exceed 
the allotted speaking time. Any content still in progress when the time expires will 
be stopped. All presentation materials must be submitted for review—both for 
technical compatibility and relevance to subject matter or city business—no later 
than one (1) business day before the meeting.
G.H. Individuals who wish to speak should submit a speaker card to the City Clerk, or 
use the raise your hand feature virtually, to be called up at the appropriate time. 
The Clerk will announce the last opportunity to submit forms or raise hands and 
announce when the time has closed for public comment on any particular item. 
79 of 293

--- page 80 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
18
8.
Agendized Discussion Items (Public Hearings, New Business, Old Business)
A.
Staff / applicant presentation
B.
Open public hearing (or public comment section) for testimony
C.
Close public hearing (or public comment section)
D.
Response by staff to public questions/concerns, if warranted
E.
Council questions to applicant and/or staff
F.
Council discussion and deliberation
G.
Council votes
9.
Appeals
A.
Appeals are public hearings and will follow the order stated in #8 with the 
following time allocations:
1.
Appellant – 15 minutes
2.
Applicant (if not the Appellant) – 15 minutes
3.
Individual Speakers - as outlined in Section 7(ED)(1) above.
4.
Rebuttal (Applies to Appellant and Applicant) – 5 minutes each
5.
Clarification (Staff may offer explanation or clarification for the testimony) 
6.
If the appellant is also the applicant only one 15 minute presentation is 
allowed
7.
Tenant Relocation Appeals Hearings – both the Landlord and the Tenant 
shall each be given 15 minutes to present, and each shall have a 5-minute 
rebuttal.
B.
Appeals from decisions of the City’s Boards and Commissions shall appear on the 
Council agenda for discussion. Council determines whether to affirm the action of 
the commission, refer the matter back to the commission, or reverse the decision. 
C.
Any person that addressed the Council during one of the fifteen-minute periods 
may not speak again during the public comment period for individual speakers on 
the appeal. 
10.
Items Considered after 11:00 p.m.
80 of 293

--- page 81 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
19
At 11:00 pm, in order to ensure effective discourse on an item, the Council will determine 
with a majority vote whether to continue with an item or if they will take up any 
remaining unheard items.
11.
Action Minutes
A.
The City Council shall use Action Minutes (action minutes contain very little, if any, 
narrative content) or light summary at the discretion of the City Clerk, to record 
their proceedings.
B.
Motions and votes are shown in the record.
C.
Media (audio/video) recordings will be used in order to provide a verbatim record 
of meetings as identified in the City’s Records Retention Schedule.
12.
Conflict of Interest
A.
The Political Reform Act (PRA), implemented, regulated and enforced by the Fair 
Political Practices Commission (FPPC), controls financial conflicts of interest. 
B.
The other applicable law is Government Code §section 1090, which applies only to 
City contracts in which a public official has a financial interest.
C.
Whenever it appears to a Council Member they may have a prohibited financial 
interest in any City contract, or an item that may be presented to the City Council, 
the Council Member should consult with the City Attorney at the earliest 
opportunity for advice on whether a disqualifying conflict of interest exists. 
D.
If the City Attorney is consulted on such a matter, the City Attorney shall provide 
their advice in writing, and shall provide a copy of their opinion to the City Council, 
the City Manager, and the City Clerk.
E.
With full consideration of the City Attorney’s advice, it is up to each individual 
Council Member to decide for themselves whether there is a conflict of interest.
F.
A member shall not vote upon any matter on which they have a conflict of 
interest.
G.
A member shall openly state the reason for their conflict of interest.
H.
A member who is disqualified by a conflict of interest shall recuse him/herself 
from the dais and leave the room unless it is during the Consent Calendar.
81 of 293

--- page 82 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
20
Chapter 8.
Meeting Agendas
1.
Agenda Order
City Council agendas will be prepared by the City Clerk and presented to the City Council 
in the order described below, except where the City Manager determines that a different 
order is appropriate under the circumstances.
A.
Opening
1.
Pledge of Allegiance
2.
Roll Call
3.
AB 2449 Member requests to join virtually for Just Cause or Emergency 
Circumstances – vote is required
B.
Ceremonial Matters
The presentation and receipt of ceremonial resolutions and celebrations not 
requiring formal legislative action. In order to ensure the business of the meeting 
can be handled timely, no more than three (3) items will be scheduled under 
ceremonial in any meeting. 
C.
Consent Calendar
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be 
routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If discussion is 
desired, that item may be removed by a Council Member and considered 
separately. Members of the Public may speak to any Consent Calendar item 
without the item being pulled.
D.
Public Comment
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the 
agenda may address the City Council at this time. State law prevents Council from 
taking action on any matter not on the agenda. Comments may be referred to staff 
for follow up. Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes unless Council by 
majority extends the total time; however, an opportunity for additional public 
comment may be provided later in the agenda, if needed. Timing as per Chapter 7 
E(1) of these Rules.
E.
Public Hearing
Duly noticed hearings as mandated by local, state, or federal law, providing an 
opportunity for public review and comment of a proposed action by the Council.
82 of 293

--- page 83 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
21
F.
Old Business
Non-routine items that have been presented before that require further oral 
presentation and/or discussion before action is taken.
G.
New Business
Non-routine items requiring an oral presentation and discussion before action is 
taken.
H.
Reports and Announcements
City Manager, City Attorney, and Council Members, report on their various 
assignments and liaison roles, and Council Members may make individual requests 
to schedule future items for consideration. Council Members should notify the City 
Manager in advance if they intend to make such a request.  A majority vote or 
consensus of Council is required to place a request on a future agenda. If a Council 
Member is going to make a request to agendize an item, such as a resolution of 
support that they have proposed wording for, or a sample copy of a proposed 
resolution, that item should be sent to the Clerk for distribution to members no 
later than the time of the agenda packet issuance and in advance of the meeting in 
order to give the other Council Members adequate time to review and determine 
if it is something they would like to support.
I.
Additional Public Comment (if needed)
J.
Adjourn
2.
Agenda Item Submission
A.
Persons who can place matters on the agenda: City Manager or City Attorney
B.
Council Member: 
1.
A Council Member may request an item be considered on a future agenda. 
Before the decision is made, staff will provide information on how much 
staff time is estimated to be required to produce the agenda report. Then 
with a majority vote or consensus of Council, staff will prepare an agenda 
report and place the item on a future agenda. 
2.
Council Members may make this request verbally during a meeting or may 
submit a written request. 
C.
Members of the Public 
1.
A member of the public may request Council action in the following ways:
83 of 293

--- page 84 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
22
a.
Write a letter or email to the City Council
b.
Speak during the Public Comment period at a City Council meeting
c.
Attend annual Council goal setting meeting and provide input
2.
Upon agreement of a majority of the City Council, Council will determine 
whether to place an item requested by the public on a future agenda.
84 of 293

--- page 85 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
23
Chapter 9.
Financial Matters
1.
Council Member Compensation
A.
State law sets the overall level of compensation for City Council Members 
(California Government Code § 36516).
B.
Compensation of Council Members is set by Resolution (see the San Mateo City 
Charter, Section 2.03 Compensation).
C.
Council Member benefits are established in San Mateo City Charter, Section 2.04 
Benefits and Expenses.
D.
A full explanation of Council Member compensation is available on the City’s 
website.
2.
City Council Expense Reimbursement Policy
A.
Authorized Expenses
1.
City funds, equipment, supplies, titles, and staff time must only be used for 
authorized city business. Expenses incurred in connection with the 
following types of activities generally constitute authorized expenses, as 
long as the other requirements of this policy are met:
a.
Communicating with representatives of regional, state, and national 
government on matters of interest to the City.
b.
Meeting with City staff on matters relating to City business.
c.
Attending educational seminars designed to improve officials’ skill 
and information levels.
d.
Participating in local, regional, state, and national organizations 
whose activities effect the City’s interests; however, a member of 
the City Council shall not accept an elected or appointed position 
that would require anticipated costs to the City of more than $100 
annually without City Council approval.
e.
Recognizing the service to the City (for example, thanking a 
longtime employee with a retirement gift of nominal value).
f.
Attending fundraising events for nonprofit entities providing 
services of benefit to the City and/or its residents.
g.
Attending City events.
85 of 293

--- page 86 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
24
h.
Implementing a City approved strategy for attracting or retaining 
businesses to the City, which will typically involve at least one staff 
member.
2.
All other expenses require prior approval by the City Council.
3.
The City will not reimburse the following expenses:
a.
The personal portion of any trip.
b.
Political contributions or events.
c.
Family expenses, including partner’s expenses when accompanying 
official on agency-related business.
d.
Entertainment expenses, such as movies, sporting events, or 
cultural events.
e.
Non-mileage personal automobile expenses, including repairs, 
citations, insurance or gasoline.
B.
Cost Control
To conserve City resources and keep expenses within community standards for 
public officials, expenditures should adhere to the following guidelines. If expenses 
are incurred that exceed these guidelines, the cost borne or reimbursed by the 
City will be limited to the costs that fall within these guidelines. 
Each Council Member will have equal access to an annual budget for events, 
trainings, and conferences. Once a Council Member’s individual allocation has 
been fully used, additional funds may only be granted with approval from the City 
Council. Funds may not be transferred between Council Members. The City Clerk’s 
Office will monitor and track individual Council Member expenditures to ensure 
compliance with this policy.
1.
Airfare
Airfares that are equal to or less than those available through the League of 
California Cities, the California State Association of Counties, and the State 
of California are presumed to be the most economical and reasonable for 
purposes of reimbursement under this policy.  If no discounted airfare is 
available through these entities, then the most reasonable and economical 
airfare possible should be utilized.
2.
Airport Parking
86 of 293

--- page 87 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
25
Long-term parking must be used for travel exceeding 24 hours.
3.
Automobile
Mileage shall be reimbursed at IRS rates presently in effect (see 
www.irs.gov). These rates are designed to compensate the driver for 
gasoline, insurance, maintenance, and other expenses. In addition, drivers 
may be reimbursed for bridge and road tolls. For rental vehicles, only 
receipted fuel expenses will be reimbursed.
4.
Car Rental
Rental rates that are equal or less than those available through the State of 
California’s website Car Rental Resources for State Travel shall be 
considered the most economical and reasonable for purposes of 
reimbursement under this policy.
5.
Conferences/Meetings
If such lodging is in connection with a conference, lodging expenses must 
not exceed the group rate published by the conference sponsor for the 
meeting in question if such rates are available at the time of booking. If the 
group rate is not available, rates that are equal to or less than the group 
rate at the host hotel are presumed to be reasonable and reimbursable for 
purposes of this policy.
6.
Internet
Officials will be reimbursed for Internet access connection and/or usage 
fees away from home, if Internet access is necessary for City business.
7.
Lodging
Council members are expected to select the most cost-effective and logical 
lodging available, including utilizing the lodging at the conference/training 
site, if available. If there is not specific lodging associated with the official 
City business, the City shall pay for actual lodging expenses up to the 
United States General Services Administration (GSA) maximum rate 
allowed by location (Per Diem Rates | GSA). This maximum applies to the 
room rate only and does not include any taxes or fees. Government rates 
for lodging are often available and should be sought. The City will pay only 
for standard single rooms, including taxes and fees, for individual Council 
members, and any additional nonbusiness expenses incurred will be paid 
by the Council member.
87 of 293

--- page 88 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
26
8.
Meals
The City will pay for a Council member’s meals during authorized, required 
travel up to the per diem amount (Per Diem Rates | GSA). If meals are 
included in the cost of a conference or training, the City will not pay for a 
meal that an employee elects to purchase from another source. Unlike 
lodging, using the per diem methodology for meals that is limited to the 
GSA amount eliminates the need for employees to submit receipts. Thus, 
the Council members only need to report the per diem amounts in the 
expense report, but not the actual receipts. This only applies to meals, as 
all other travel expenses require a receipt to substantiate the purchase. 
When the meal function is an organized event, the official or employee 
shall be reimbursed the amount being charged by the event organizer for 
the meal. The City will not pay for alcohol/personal bar expenses.
9.
Taxis/Shuttles
Taxis or shuttle fares may be reimbursed, including a 15 percent gratuity 
per fare, when the cost of such fares is equal or less than the cost of car 
rentals, gasoline, and parking combined, or when such transportation is 
necessary for time-efficiency.
10.
Telephone/Fax/Cellular
Officials will be reimbursed for actual telephone and fax expenses incurred 
on City business. Telephone bills should identify which calls were made on 
City business.
11.
Transportation
Officials traveling on City business shall use the most economical mode and 
class of transportation reasonably consistent with scheduling needs and 
cargo space requirements, using the most direct, time-efficient route. 
Government and group rates must be used when available.
C.
Expense Reports
1.
Expense reimbursement requests must be submitted on an expense report 
form provided by the City. Reports must document how the expenditure 
met the requirements of this policy.
2.
Expense reports must be submitted within 30 days of an expense being 
incurred; and must be accompanied by receipts documenting each 
expense. 
88 of 293

--- page 89 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
27
3.
Expense reports are a public record.
D.
Audits of Expenses
All expenses are subject to verification that they comply with this policy.
E.
Reports on Meetings
Each official shall briefly give an oral report on any Brown Act meetings they 
attended for which they receive expense reimbursement at their next City Council, 
Board, or Commission meeting.
F.
Violation of this Policy
Under state law, use of public resources or falsifying expense reports in violation 
of this policy may result in any or all of the following: 1) loss of reimbursement 
privileges, 2) a demand for restitution to the City, 3) the agency’s reporting the 
expenses as income to the official to state and federal tax authorities, 4) civil 
penalties of up to $1,000 per day and three times the value of the resources used, 
and 5) prosecution for misuse of public resources.
89 of 293

--- page 90 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
28
Chapter 10.
Communication
1.
All communications are public records. 
All letters, memoranda, email communications, texts and other social media platform 
writing involving City Council Members and members of boards, commissions, 
committees, and task forces, the subject of which relate to the conduct of government or 
the performance of any governmental function, with a few exceptions as outlined in the 
Public Records Act, are public records. 
2.
The Council, in adopting this policy, does not waive attorney-client privilege or any other 
privilege associated with a closed session authorized under the Ralph M. Brown Act. 
3.
Ralph M. Brown Act
Each Council Member should be mindful of all of the requirements of the Brown Act in 
communicating with each other.
4.
Mail Processing
A.
Members of the City Council may receive mail and other materials through City 
Hall. 
B.
City Clerk staff open all incoming mail for the Mayor and Council Members, unless 
it is labeled personal and confidential.
C.
City Clerk’s Office staff disseminate these materials to individual Council Members. 
City Staff will scan and email correspondence. 
D.
General correspondence addressed to Council Members as a whole will be opened 
and delivered to all Council Members. A correspondence addressed to a single 
Council Member on a topic that is the subject matter jurisdiction of the city and/or 
due to come on an upcoming agenda will be shared with all Council Members.
5.
Correspondence
A.
The City Clerk is authorized to receive and take administrative action on all 
correspondence directed to the City Council. The City Clerk may also respond to 
correspondence submitted to the full City Council on non-agenda items or 
authorize a staff member to respond. A courtesy copy is provided to each Council 
Member.
B.
Generally, correspondence relating to a specific City Council agenda item shall be 
distributed with the agenda report; correspondence received after the publication 
of the agenda packet will be compiled and distributed to the City Council prior to 
90 of 293

--- page 91 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
29
the City Council meeting (known as a Dais packet). This additional correspondence is 
appended to the Agenda Report as public comment on the public meeting portal and in 
the records repository permanent record. Any further correspondence received 
between posting of the Dais packet and until the end of when the item is heard, will also 
be appended to the Agenda report as supplemental correspondence.
C.
After the City Council has taken a position on an issue, official correspondence 
should reflect this position. While Council Members who may disagree with a 
position are free to prepare correspondence on such issues as private citizens, City 
letterhead, official City Council title, and staff support should not be utilized. 
D.
City letterhead, logo, insignia and brand, as well as staff support, cannot be 
utilized for personal or political purposes, See also Section 12 of this Chapter. 
6.
Electronic Communication Record Retention
A.
All emails sent and received through the City server are saved for at least three 
years on the City’s network and are subject to the Public Records Act.
B.
Communications on social media sites are saved for at least two years.
C.
Text messages sent on any City-provided device are saved for at least two years.
7.
Social Media Use as a Council Member
Social media are internet-based platforms that allow for interactive communication and 
engagement with the public. For example, these may include (without limitation): 
Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), Instagram, YouTube, TikTok, Snapchat, Nextdoor, blogs, 
etc.
The City’s image as a professional organization is critical to maintaining the respect of the 
public, and members should use discretion when posting or communicating on social 
media. If Council Members choose to maintain and use personal social media accounts to 
conduct City business, they must follow current federal and state regulations, as well as 
Council and City policies.
A.
Brown Act:  Social media postings may turn into an interactive dialogue. The 
Brown Act has expanded to provide guidance on elected officials’ use of media 
platforms that are free of charge and open and accessible to the public.
1.
Permitted Uses: You may answer questions, provide information to the 
public and solicit information from the public about city business; share a 
City post to your Council Member site; and tag other elected officials in a 
post.
91 of 293

--- page 92 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
30
2.
Prohibited Uses: A majority of the members may not use social media to 
discuss agency business and a member may not respond directly to any 
posting by another member regarding agency business including no ‘likes’ 
‘thumbs up’, ‘emojis’ or other symbols.
B.
First Amendment: Councilmember social media platforms can become public 
forums subject to First Amendment requirements. If a social media platform is 1) 
used for City business and 2) has interactive features that are accessible to the 
public without limitation, it is a public forum. The City’s Social Media Policy 
contains rules for public participation and addresses what will constitute 
unacceptable content. In general, officials may not block a member of the public 
from their social media sites if those sites have become public forums.  If 
unacceptable content appears on a site that has become a public forum, please 
consult with City staff.
C.
Public Records: Members are prohibited from deleting social media posts and 
related comments regarding any City-related matters to avoid violating the 
California Public Records Act. Social media is subject to the City’s record retention 
schedule.
D.
Best practices: Officials should be honest and accurate when posting information 
or news, especially when communicating during a crisis or emergency. Any 
mistakes, misstatements and/or factual errors must be corrected quickly upon 
discovery. News of citywide importance should first be announced by the official 
City-affiliated accounts then can be reshared by Council Members. Unless the 
member has been designated to serve as a spokesperson, members should never 
represent themselves as a spokesperson for the entire Council or City. Members 
should be mindful of recognizing that accomplishments of the City or Council are 
achieved by collective action of the entire body or organization, not by any 
individual council member.
E.
Quasi-Judicial Capacity: see Chapter 6 (Council Member Conduct) for rules 
addressing the use of social media when Council Members are acting in a quasi-
judicial capacity.
8.
Written Communications for Council Meetings
D.
The deadline for the receipt of written communications for inclusion in the agenda 
packet is up to 4:00 pm the Wednesday before the Council meeting. This is to 
allow for adequate staff review and analysis, and to ensure public access to 
information, all plans, correspondence, and other documents supporting any item 
being heard by the City Council. 
E.
To be included in the Dais packet, communication may be received up until 4:00 
pm the day of the scheduled meeting. 
92 of 293

--- page 93 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
31
F.
Materials distributed to Council Members during the meeting shall be available for 
viewing by the public during the meeting if the materials were prepared by the 
City or a Council Member, or at the conclusion of the meeting if prepared by 
another person.
G.
If a Council Member receives materials regarding an agenda item, they shall 
forward it to the City Clerk and the City Manager as soon as possible.
H.
If late correspondence is received, the City Council will determine at the meeting 
whether to continue or refer the item to the appropriate Board and/or 
Commission if significant changes to a project, or significant new information has 
become known.
9.
Council Communication to Boards and Commissions
A.
Council Members should be mindful not to unduly influence—through their 
attendance—the decision at a Board or Commission meeting so as to protect the 
independent process of that body.
B.
It is not appropriate for a Council Member to make public comments at a Board or 
Commission meeting.
10.
Council – Staff Relations
A.
Individual Council Members may make requests of City staff through the City 
Manager or Department Head for limited research and information without the 
formal concurrence of a majority of the members’ colleagues. Requests that will 
require significant staff time may be referred to the full Council and only pursued if 
supported by a majority of the Council.
B.
Council Members are encouraged to submit their questions on agenda items to 
the City Manager or Department Head (including copying the City Manager) as far 
in advance of the meeting as possible so that Staff can be prepared to respond at 
the Council meeting. 
C.
Council Members should direct any questions on agenda reports to the City 
Manager or their designee, usually the staff member presenting. 
D.
Clarifications or technical questions will be answered before the meeting 
whenever possible.
E.
Questions and all staff-prepared responses will be forwarded to all Council 
Members.
11.
Speaking for “the City”
93 of 293

--- page 94 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
32
Similar to written correspondence, when Council Members are requested to speak to 
groups or are asked the City Council’s position on an issue, the response should reflect the 
position of the City Council as a whole. Of course, a member may clarify their vote on a 
matter by stating, for example, “While I voted against X, the City Council voted in support 
of it.” When representing the City at meetings or other venues, it is important that those 
in attendance gain an understanding of the City Council’s position rather than that of an 
individual member.
12.
Speaking as an Individual
On occasion, Council Members may wish to transmit correspondence on an issue upon 
which the City Council has yet to take a position or about an issue for which the City 
Council has no position. In these circumstances, members should clearly indicate in their 
communications that they are not speaking for the City Council as a whole, but for 
themselves as an individual member of the Council. City letterhead and office support 
may be utilized in these circumstances, except it may not be used for personal or political 
purposes (see also 5(D) of this chapter). 
94 of 293

--- page 95 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
33
Chapter 11.
Legislative
1.
Council Legislative Committee
A.
It is the policy of the City Council that the Council be involved in the development 
of the City’s position on significant pending federal and state legislation that may 
directly impact the City of San Mateo.
B.
The offices of Mayor and Deputy Mayor are the Council’s Legislative Committee.
C.
The Legislative Committee may meet annually or as needed to evaluate and if 
needed make proposed modifications to the City’s legislative platform draft the 
City’s legislative priorities; and shall meet when necessary to develop 
recommendations for the City’s position on legislative matters. Proposed 
amendments to the City’s legislative platform shall require Council approval 
before adoption.
D.
The Committee’s recommendations shall be presented to the City Council for its 
consideration; if there is a pressing and urgent need to comment on pending 
legislation and getting approval in a City Council meeting is not practical, the 
Legislative Committee may take immediate action to communicate with legislators 
and copy the entire City Council on the communication and provide a brief report 
of action taken under Reports and Announcements at the next City Council 
meeting.
E.
In accordance with the City Council approved legislative platform, City staff will be 
responsible to work in coordination with the Legislative Committee, staff will be 
responsible for coordinating with the Legislative Committee and relevant City 
departments, and may also engage external legislative support as appropriate to:
I.
Continuously review and evaluate legislative proposals for alignment with 
the City Council’s adopted legislative platform.
II.
Make recommendations on appropriate advocacy positions, such as support, 
oppose, oppose unless amended, neutral, watch, and sponsor/co-sponsor, 
which are consistent with the adopted legislative platform.
III.
Draft advocacy letters consisted with the adopted legislative platform.
IV.
Engage with appropriate State and Federal officials on legislation in which 
the City has taken an advocacy position.
C.F. Pending legislation for consideration by the Legislative Committee can be 
submitted to the Committee by a Council Member, or the City Manager., or by a 
Commission Staff Liaison if a majority of their commission voted in favor of 
submission to the Legislative Committee.
95 of 293

--- page 96 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
34
A.
If an advocacy position is substantially aligned with the City Council’s adopted 
legislative platform, or where there are extenuated circumstances related to time-
sensitive legislative deadlines, or developments potentially leading to significantly 
determinantal impacts to the City’s finances, responsibilities, legal authority, 
discretion, or operations, the City Manager is authorized to request that the 
Mayor, or in the absence of the Mayor, the Deputy Mayor, sign advocacy letters 
on legislation of interest without taking the item to the Legislative Committee or 
City Council for approval. In such cases, a copy of the correspondence shall be 
provided to the full City Council and a brief report of action taken will be provided 
under Reports and Announcements at the next City Council meeting.
B.
This policy is not intended to limit the prerogative of individual Councilmembers 
from expressing their individual support for or opposition to any Local measure, or 
State proposition, State or Federal legislation. However, in doing so, the member 
shall clearly state that they are speaking for themselves, not on behalf of the 
Council body or the City collectively (see Chapter 10, sub-section section 11). 
When acting in individual capacity, Councilmembers shall do so in accordance with 
other City Council policies. 
The Council shall direct the Mayor or other City official to communicate the City’s position on 
legislative matters to the appropriate legislative bodies.
C.
1.
Ceremonial Matters
A.
There are several different types of action the Council may take to provide 
recognition or express appreciation:
I.
Certifications of Appreciation or Recognition
Commendations typically issued to acknowledge the activities of a person 
or organization. These certificates may be issued by any member of the 
Council without formal action. Examples of traditional recipients would 
include departing Board and Commission Members, high school students 
with 4.0 grade point averages, Chamber of Commerce Outstanding 
Businesses Awards, recognizing Eagle Scouts, winners of local art or speech 
contests, etc.
96 of 293

--- page 97 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
35
II.
Commendatory Resolutions
Typically used to handle matters requiring some type of formal 
memorialization such as the retirement of a long-tenured employee, or 
outgoing Mayor or Council Member. These are not voted on like a standard 
Resolution of Council action would be.
III.
Proclamations
Public announcements directing attention to a person, organization, or 
event. Proclamations will be issued subject to the policy described below.
B.
Preparation of City Proclamations
I.
It is the policy of the City Council to issue proclamations for certain events or 
causes, when such a proclamation positively impacts the community and 
conveys an affirmative message to residents. Examples of causes for which 
proclamations are regularly and routinely issued include, but are not limited 
to: notable accomplishments by citizens, youth groups, schools, local 
organizations, non-profit groups, and local events that deserve special 
recognition. Discretion should be used in determining whether or not to 
issue a proclamation. Proclamations that are political in nature, are 
controversial, or that likely would not enjoy a high level of community 
interest and support, are discouraged. 
II.
It will be the policy of the City Council to process requests for proclamations 
in the following manner:
a.
The City Clerk will review the request with the Mayor. 
b.
If the Mayor determines that the proclamation request is consistent 
with the policy stated above, the Mayor will direct the City Clerk to 
prepare the proclamation and the proclamation will be issued.
c.
If the Mayor determines the proclamation request is not consistent 
with the policy stated above, the request will be routed to the other 
Council Members to determine if there is interest in issuing the 
proclamation.
d.
If a Council Member has interest in issuing the proclamation that 
the Mayor determined was not consistent with this policy, that 
Council Member will sponsor the item and shall be responsible for 
drafting the language to be contained in the proclamation. The 
sponsor Council Member shall provide the draft proclamation 
language to the City Clerk.
97 of 293

--- page 98 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
36
e.
Upon receipt of the draft proclamation language, the City Clerk will 
place the item for consideration to considering issuing the 
proclamation on the Consent Calendar at the next available 
meeting. The proclamation will be issued upon a majority vote of 
the Council in support of issuing the proclamation. Depending on 
the nature and time-sensitivity of the request, the Mayor and 
Deputy Mayor can act without full formal concurrence of the 
Council when the situation warrants.
98 of 293

--- page 99 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
37
Chapter 12.
Council Liaison Roles
1.
The City Council will collectively review and approve liaison appointments. The 
recommended appointments will, to the best of the Council’s ability, attempt to match 
the requested positions with the needs of the respective body and the experience of the 
Council Member, while also attempting to equitably balance the distribution of 
assignments.
2.
It is generally suggested that newly elected Council Members undertake a limited number 
of assignments during their first year, to allow opportunity to gain familiarity with the 
obligations and expectations of the role.
3.
The assignment of City Council liaisons is conducted annually according to the following 
process:
A.
Following the reorganization in December, the City Clerk will distribute a memo to 
each Council Member which will include a list of potential liaison assignments. 
B.
Each Council Member will complete the list in a manner which prioritizes the 
assignments of interest to them; and will submit their list only to the City Clerk in 
December.
C.
The ranking process uses the following methodology:
1.
Top priority = I really want this (please mark at most only two #1s)
2.
This is something I would like to have
3.
I’ll take this one for the team
4.
I do not want (perhaps the meeting timing does not work for you)
D.
The City Clerk will assemble responses into a table and provide it to the Mayor. The 
Mayor uses the following additional criteria to make assignments: Continuity 
assignments remain with the assignee unless the member is opting to step down 
from the role (see section 5 below); assignments will be assigned by highest priority 
desired with 1’s first, 2’s second etc.; in case of ties, overall balance and then 
seniority will be taken into account. For example, did the Council Member get their 
other first choice? Does the Council Member have other “plum” continuity 
assignments; ideally, everyone will get at least one of their top priorities; and the 
Council Member does not need to use their  top rankings to hold onto continuity 
assignments.
E.
In the event that a liaison has not been identified for each commission, the Mayor 
will divide any remaining liaison positions amongst the Council, attempting to 
equitably balance the distribution of the assignments and associated workload. 
99 of 293

--- page 100 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
38
F.
The Mayor, working with the City Manager and City Clerk, will utilize the responses 
to present an Agenda Report and conduct a discussion at the first meeting in 
January regarding the liaison appointments.
G.
The Mayor and Deputy Mayor have traditionally been assigned to the following 
bodies:
1.
City Council Legislative Committee - ordered by Resolution 158 (1981)
2.
City Budget and Audit Committee
3.
Planning Commission
4.
Council of Cities – City Selection Committee (Mayor with Deputy Mayor as 
alternate)
5.
Honorary Chair of Sister Cities Association (Mayor)
H.
The City Clerk shall maintain a list of all such appointments. The final liaison list will 
be distributed to all Council Members and posted on the City’s website.
4.
Liaison to the City’s Boards and Commissions
A.
Each of the City’s Boards and Commissions has a Council Member who serves as its 
Council liaison.
B.
Council Members should act as an advisor and resource to commissioners and the 
commission’s staff liaison when issues regarding process, procedure, attendance, 
interpersonal or public relations arise. 
C.
The Council liaison serves on the Appointment Subcommittee for the Commission 
to which they are assigned. In the event the Mayor is serving as the commission’s 
liaison, the minimum subcommittee shall consist of the Mayor and Deputy Mayor.
5.
Continuity Appointments to External Agencies
A.
The City Council has identified certain appointments for which there is a strong 
need and desire for consistency and continuity in terms of Council participation and 
representation. The Mayor will maintain the current Council Member assigned as 
liaison to that body. The Council will have an opportunity at its annual review to see 
if a supplemental designation is needed due to changing conditions or if new bodies 
have been added to the list.  All continuity appointments should also have an 
alternate assigned, so a member can be ready to take over the role if needed. 
B.
Liaison appointments to these bodies would not annually be reassigned to another 
Council Member, as this would not provide the desired consistency. If it became 
necessary to reassign the liaison for one of these bodies as the result of a vacancy 
or other reason, the liaison role would not typically be assigned to a newly elected 
Council Member. A Council Member with an interest in serving as liaison to any of 
100 of 293

--- page 101 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
39
these continuity bodies should confer with the current representative; and consider 
acting as an alternate or “shadowing” the current liaison for a time to learn more about 
the body’s functions and duties. 
C.
If a Council Member who is assigned as liaison to one of the aforementioned bodies 
anticipates leaving office, every effort should be made to mentor another Council 
Member so that those critical relationships can continue uninterrupted.
6.
Council of Cities Appointments
A.
In the case of appointments made by the regional Council of Cities - City Selection 
Committee, upon receipt of the City Selection Committee agenda packet listing all 
positions and nominees to be voted on, if time allows, the City Council may 
schedule a special meeting prior to the Council of Cities meeting to discuss and 
agree upon preferred appointees. This will allow the Mayor, or their proxy, to have 
clear direction on whom to vote for that reflects the best interest of the City. If 
scheduling a meeting is not practical, the Mayor and Deputy Mayor may confer on 
the vote. In the case of nominations from the floor at the City Selection voting 
meeting, the Mayor, or their proxy, will vote their conscience based on the 
feedback previously given by the City Council as a whole. In December, every year 
upon the Mayor’s rotation, a standing proxy shall be filled out and filed with the 
City Selection Committee for the year naming who may vote in the Mayor’s 
absence. The Deputy Mayor will be given first priority followed by any Council 
Member who has the most latitude and ability to attend the meetings.
101 of 293

--- page 102 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
40
Chapter 13.
Boards and Commissions
1.
Refer to the San Mateo City Charter Article VI on Boards and Commissions.
2.
Council Members should refrain from participation at Board and Commission meetings to 
avoid influencing the outcome of those meetings.
3.
Reappointments, Vacancies, and Appointments
A.
The City Clerk’s Office manages the Boards and Commissions (hereafter referred 
to as “Commission” for ease of reference) application process. The process begins 
with the Clerk contacting members who are eligible for appointment to a second 
term and finding out their interest in reappointment. 
B.
The City Clerk then shares the results with each appointment subcommittee and 
receives direction on the need to schedule an agendized appointment 
subcommittee meeting to provide direction on reappointments. The default is that 
currently serving Commissioners will each be interviewed for reappointment. 
However, if it is determined that a Commissioner’s performance is outstanding, or 
that other factors necessitate keeping them in their role, then an automatic 
reappointment can occur with a majority vote or majority consensus of the City 
Council. Any Commission seat selected for re-interviews, means the seat will be 
processed as part of the full annual recruitment and the currently sitting 
commissioner may be interviewed along with other applicants.   
C.
The City Clerk recruits for all open seats utilizing multiple avenues including: 
advertising, website, social media, and networking lists to present qualified 
candidates to the Council for consideration.
D.
The interview and selection of candidates is an open process.
E.
The City Clerk receives the applications (ideally a minimum of three applications is 
sought for each vacant seat) and arranges for the appropriate subcommittee, in a 
noticed special meeting, to interview applicants and form their recommendation.
F.
Commissioners, Board and committee members (hereafter referred to as 
“Commissioners” for ease of reference) are appointed by a majority vote of the 
City Council and serve staggered terms.
G.
An “Appointment subcommittee” may include up to five City Council members. 
The City Council shall appoint the members of the Appointment subcommittee. As 
a minimum, the Appointment subcommittee shall include and a quorum shall be 
established as: 1) the Mayor (or their Council designee) and the Council liaison to 
the Commission. The Department Head affiliated with that Commission shall 
participate as a non-voting member of the Appointment subcommittee.
102 of 293

--- page 103 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
41
H.
Except when reappointment is recommended, or an established eligibility list is 
used, the Appointment subcommittee shall conduct candidate interviews and 
make a recommendation for Council approval. Interviews shall be conducted in a 
noticed public meeting with at least a quorum of the Appointment subcommittee 
present.
I.
At the conclusion of an Appointment subcommittee’s interviews of candidates, 
and the agreement on the recommended candidate, the appointment 
subcommittee may then designate up to two applicants who would be considered 
for listing on the eligibility list for a six-month period. The eligibility list is then 
ranked according to preferred next seating to a Commission vacancy. The list is 
only established with the full agreement of the Appointment subcommittee. It is 
not a requirement that an eligibility list be established if there are not applicants 
that are deemed qualified. This list may be used for automatic next appointments 
in the event of an unscheduled vacancy, the next person on the eligibility list 
would be submitted as the recommended candidate from the Appointment 
subcommittee on the next City Council regular meeting Consent Calendar. 
J.
The full Council will receive the Appointment subcommittee’s recommendation 
and the full list of candidates for each opening. 
K.
The Appointment subcommittee recommendations for new and reappointed 
Commissioners are confirmed by Council under the Consent Calendar at regular 
Council meetings. An agenda report summarizing the Subcommittee’s 
recommendations, including the full list of candidates reviewed for each opening, 
will be provided to the full City Council. Council may adopt the recommendations 
as presented or pull the item for further discussion. The City Council can consider 
for appointment any of the candidates interviewed.
L.
A majority vote of Council approves the appointees. 
M.
Commission recruitment begins annually in the month of March, and completes in 
May, in order to ensure continuity on commissions before terms end June 10th. 
N.
Unscheduled Vacancies
1.
Subject to the Maddy Act (California Government Code § 54970), if an 
unscheduled vacancy occurs on a commission, the Council may either 
appoint from the pool of applicants on file (the eligibility list if there is one 
available) or open up the position to new applications where the above 
process is followed.
2.
For such non-routine vacancies, the announcement for new applications is 
made as soon as possible in order to maintain viable memberships on the 
various boards and commissions.
103 of 293

--- page 104 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
42
3.
All appointments occur in an open public meeting.
O.
Youth Activities Council (YAC) Selection Process
The YAC is not appointed directly by the City Council but through an application 
method administered by the Parks and Recreation Department. High school 
students from all of the City’s public high schools, as well as Junipero Serra High 
School and Nueva Upper School, are recruited for potential participation starting 
in the late spring of each year.
104 of 293

--- page 105 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Revision 8/18/2025 
43
Chapter 14.
References
1.
San Mateo City Charter, §2.03, 2.04, 2.12, Article VI
2.
Ralph M. Brown Act (California Government Code, § 54950 et seq.)
3.
California Government Code, § 53234 et seq.
4.
San Mateo Municipal Code
5.
California Public Records Act (California Government Code, § 6250 et seq.)
6.
AB 1234 California Government Code, § 53232.3
7.
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order
8.
Emergency Guide for Elected Officials
Prior Revisions:  January 17, 2017, April 17, 2017, April 16, 2018, May 21, 2018, May 3, 2021, 
February 22, 2022, October 17, 2022, April 1, 2024, and July 15, 2024.
105 of 293

--- page 106 ---
Boards and Commissions 
Rules and Procedures
Adopted on August 17, 2015
by Resolution No. 82 (2015)
Last Amended by Council Action on: 
August 18, 2025
106 of 293

--- page 107 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
2
City of San Mateo, Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures
Table of Contents
Chapter 1.
Purpose and Overview .............................................................................................3
Chapter 2.
Commission Authority..............................................................................................4
Chapter 3.
Governance Principles..............................................................................................7
Chapter 4.
Duties .......................................................................................................................8
Chapter 5.
Selection of Chair and Vice Chair ...........................................................................12
Chapter 6.
Commissioner Conduct ..........................................................................................13
Chapter 7.
Meetings ................................................................................................................16
Chapter 8.
Meeting Agendas ...................................................................................................21
Chapter 9.
Financial Matters....................................................................................................24
Chapter 10.
Communication......................................................................................................28
Chapter 11.
Boards and Commissions Selection Process...........................................................32
Chapter 12.
References..............................................................................................................34
107 of 293

--- page 108 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
3
Chapter 1.
Purpose and Overview 
This manual describes the way the City of San Mateo’s Boards and Commissions do their 
business. It is a compilation of all Board and Commission (hereafter referred to as 
“Commission” for the sake of brevity) rules and procedures that have been formally adopted by 
Council. These Rules and Procedures (“Rules”) supersede individual Commission bylaws. 
These Rules are intended to enhance public participation and debate so that the best possible 
decisions can be made for San Mateo. These Rules set a standard of professionalism, civility and 
decorum for the conduct of the City’s business. San Mateo has a long and proud tradition of 
open government and civil, intelligent public discourse. These rules, which must be approved by 
the City Council as a body, are subject to review and future modification by the City Council as 
needed.
Appointed Board and Commission members are expected to understand and comply with these 
Rules and Procedures. Failure to comply with the rules and procedures outlined in this 
document may be cause for removal from the appointed position.
Amendments to these Rules are made and approved by the City Council as a body; and are 
subject to review and future modification as needed.
108 of 293

--- page 109 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
4
Chapter 2.
Commission Authority
1.
Commission Authority, Generally
A.
The primary role of City commissions is to increase public input and participation 
in the determination of City policies and some programs. 
B.
The specific role of a City commission is to review and make recommendations to 
the City Council on matters within its scope of responsibility as defined in the 
Charter or Municipal Code. The commissions are basically a citizen’s advisory arm 
of the City Council, although certain commissions, such as the Planning 
Commission, may take final actions in certain prescribed areas.
C.
Most importantly, the commission serves as a vehicle for public input into City 
programs and policies referred to it by the City Council or brought to its attention 
by staff. 
D.
The commission also serves to reduce the reevaluation of these matters before 
the City Council.
E.
On the specific matters referred to it by the City Council, the commission serves as 
the principal reviewing body of the City.
F.
Commissions adhere to the City Council’s policies on the programs under their 
scopes of interest.
G.
Commissions serve to represent the general interests of the entire City and not 
specific program areas or specific interest groups.
H.
Commissions are encouraged to express their views on issues, projects, or policies 
brought to them by the City department.
I.
As further described below, the Planning Commission has a distinct role with the 
City in that it makes decisions and recommendations to the Council on land use 
matters.  These include development applications submitted by project 
proponents.  
2.
Applicability
The complete scope of responsibilities for each commission is identified either in the 
Charter or in the City’s Municipal Code and will be provided by the Departments 
supporting the commission. When not in conflict with the Charter of the City of San 
Mateo, or the Constitution or laws of the State of California, these Commission Rules and 
Procedures (“Rules”) shall be in effect upon adoption of the Council.
109 of 293

--- page 110 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
5
3.
Authority of Each Board / Commission
The authority of the City of San Mateo’s Boards and Commissions are described in the San 
Mateo City Charter Article VI, as well as its Municipal Code Title 2 Administration and 
Personnel in Chapters 2.15, 2.21, 2.24, 2.26, 2.27, 2.28, 2.29 and 2.57.
A.
Library Board:
The Library Board oversees the Library department’s policies and accepts in the 
name of the City money, personal and real property donated for Library purposes.
B.
Personnel Board:
The Personnel Board hears appeals submitted by any person in the competitive 
service relative to any disciplinary action, dismissal, demotion, charge of 
discrimination, or alleged violation of municipal code chapter 2.57, and to certify 
its findings and recommendations as provided in the personnel system rules.
C.
Community Relations Commission (CRC): 
The CRC addresses a broad spectrum of social issues and related policy and 
provides oversight for Federal grant programs that implement public services, 
housing, and community development programs. It is also the hearing and appeals 
board for Code Enforcement related cases.
D.
Park & Recreation Commission:
The Park and Recreation Commission makes recommendations to the City Council 
on acquisition, development, beautification and maintenance of public parks, 
landscape resources, public recreation facilities, budget, and programs of park and 
recreation activities.
E.
Planning Commission:
The Planning Commission hears requests and makes decisions and 
recommendations on land use projects.  This body also recommends policy 
changes to the City Council.
F.
Senior Advisory Commission:
The Senior Advisory Commission encourages, fosters, and facilitates programs for 
the enhancement of all matters relating to the social, economic, and personal 
well-being of the senior population.
110 of 293

--- page 111 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
6
G.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
The Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission was established in 2018, 
consolidating the Public Works Commission and Sustainability Commission into 
one commission. It is the duty of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
to advise on policies and programs related to environmental sustainability, 
transportation and infrastructure.
H.
Investment Advisory Committee (IAC):
The IAC serves as an administrative advisory committee to the City Manager. The 
IAC provides added insight and an independent perspective on the City’s 
investment policies and practices. 
I.
Youth Activity Council (YAC):
The Youth Activity Council provides experiences and opportunities for the youth 
and young adult population by: providing safe and enjoyable activities; creating 
community through special events; enhancing leadership and decision-making 
skills; providing service learning experiences; practicing civic participation and 
empowering our youth’s voice with our decision makers.
4.
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order
To the extent these Rules do not address an issue of parliamentary procedure for 
legislative body meetings, Rosenberg’s Rules of Order: Simple Parliamentary Procedures 
for the 21st Century shall apply.
111 of 293

--- page 112 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
7
Chapter 3.
Governance Principles
In alignment with the City Council governance principles, each Board and Commission acts as a 
body, not as individuals. Commissioners understand and acknowledge the City is run on a 
Council-Manager form of governance and will respect professional staff’s role and the City 
Manager as leader of the City organization’s operations. Commissioners should be aware of and 
mindful of the impact of requests on limited staff resources.
112 of 293

--- page 113 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
8
Chapter 4.
Duties
1.
Duties of the Chair
A.
All City commissions elect a presiding officer, known as a chairperson for a one-
year period.
B.
The Chair sets the tone for the entire meeting.
C.
To conduct meetings of the Commission as its chairperson efficiently:
1.
Ensure that consideration of items on the agenda move along without 
delay.
2.
Ensure that petitioners, proponents, and opponents are heard but not 
allowed to disrupt the meeting. 
3.
Ensure that decorum and civility is maintained during the meeting.
4.
In presiding over matters where the public has provided comment or 
testimony and/or raised questions, the Chair should:
a.
At the end of the public comment period, restate, if any, relevant 
questions from the public. 
b.
Direct questions or comments requiring a response to staff for a 
response. 
c.
Ensure that staff and members of the public direct their comments 
to the chair and commission members.
d.
Help keep Commissioner comments and questions relevant to the 
matter being considered by the Commission, and schedule non-
agenda topics for subsequent meetings, where necessary and if 
agreed upon by the Commission during Reports and 
Announcements. 
e.
If necessary, consider calling for a brief recess if the orderly conduct 
of the meeting is being disrupted. 
f.
Ensure that the decision and vote of the Commission on all subjects 
is announced. This may occur with the assistance of the City Clerk, 
Staff Liaison or commission clerk.
5.
To ensure that each member of the Commission is provided an opportunity 
to completely express their views on items of business, the Chair should:
113 of 293

--- page 114 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
9
a.
Actively seek commission member comments and ensure that 
Commissioners ask to be recognized by the Chair before speaking to 
maintain an orderly process on the dais.
b.
Make sure that each commission member has had a first chance at 
providing comments, before allowing another commission to make 
additional statements – unless they are asked to clarify their prior 
statement.
c.
Ensure that each commission member is given the opportunity to 
fully express their views.
D.
To correspond on behalf of the Commission, provided that opinions expressed on 
behalf of the Commission or City Government are consistent with the consensus of 
the Commission. 
E.
Nothing under the Chair’s duties shall limit any individual Commissioner’s ability to 
interact with members of the public.
2.
Duties of Vice Chair
In the absence of the Chair from the Commission meeting, the Vice Chair shall possess all 
powers of the Chair and be subject to all prescribed duties for that position.
3.
Duties of Commissioners
A.
Arrive on time for all Commission meetings.
B.
Review all meeting materials in preparation for Commission meetings, and direct 
questions to staff (before meetings, whenever practical) if any item is unclear or 
clarification is needed. 
C.
Alert staff in advance of the meeting whenever possible if an item is intended to 
be pulled off of the Consent Calendar or introduced under Reports and 
Announcements for future Commission consideration.
D.
It is the responsibility of all members to assist the Chair in running an efficient and 
effective meeting by assisting with the orderly disposition of items, helping ensure 
all members are heard, participating fully in meaningful discussion and 
deliberation, keeping comments succinct, concise, civil and germane, and limiting 
repetitive comments. Commissioners are encouraged to hold their colleagues 
accountable for following these rules and do all in their power to contribute to the 
smooth running of a meeting for the community.
E.
All commission members are asked to alert the staff commission liaison when 
receiving media inquiries.
114 of 293

--- page 115 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
10
F.
It is expected that Commissioners will attend all meetings. If a commissioner is 
absent for three consecutive meetings or for 15% of scheduled meetings annually, 
the City Clerk will notify Council who may take action to vacate the seat. The 
Commissioner is expected to notify the Staff Liaison or Staff Admin if they are 
unable to attend a meeting.
G.
For Planning Commissioners, make every effort to participate in the California 
League of Cities Planning Commissioner Academy during the first year as a 
Commissioner, and every other year thereafter.
H.
Read, and use as a primary reference, the Institute for Local Government’s 
Planning Commission Handbook. 
4.
Duties of Staff Liaison
A.
The liaison, an assigned City staff person, has the following responsibilities:
1.
Create meeting schedules.
2.
Prepare meeting agendas and Agenda Reports.
3.
Notify the City Clerk of attendance problems, resignations, and members’ 
change of contact information.
4.
Ensure that sufficient research and analysis has been performed by staff to 
allow an informed decision by the Commission.
5.
Help facilitate and advise the Chair on meeting management.
6.
Ensure that all affected departments have an opportunity for input before 
bringing an item forward for commission consideration.
7.
For the Planning Commission, arrange an annual joint meeting with the 
City Council.
B.
The Staff Liaison, along with the City Clerk, is responsible for ensuring that 
appointed board/commission members are oriented about policies and 
procedures as they relate to the body.
C.
All communications addressed to a specific Board or Commission are received by 
the staff liaison, or their designee, and relayed to the appointed body.
115 of 293

--- page 116 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
11
5.
Duties of Administrative Staff
Each commission also has an administrative staff person (Staff Admin), who works with 
the Staff Liaison, to support the body. Their responsibilities are to:
A.
Provide oversight of agenda preparation and its delivery to the full Commission 
and to the public.
B.
Ensure that meeting materials--including a sufficient number of agendas, universal 
speaker slips, and at least one binder of all related reports being presented at that 
meeting–are available for the public to examine at the meeting.
C.
Produce the action minutes for each meeting.
D.
Provide annually a record of attendance of each commissioner to the City Clerk.
6.
Duties of Council Liaison
A.
Every year the Mayor will appoint Council Members to serve as liaisons to the 
City’s Boards and Commissions.
B.
Council Members act as an advisor and resource to Commissioners and the 
commission’s Staff Liaison when issues regarding process, procedure, 
interpersonal or public relations arise. Commissioners are also welcome to 
approach the Council Liaison for support or if they have any concerns. Council 
Members should refrain from participation at Board and Commission meetings to 
avoid influencing the outcome of those meetings.
116 of 293

--- page 117 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
12
Chapter 5.
Selection of Chair and Vice Chair
1.
Commission reorganization, including rotation of the roles of the Chair and Vice Chair, 
occurs annually at the meeting as close as possible to June 10th of each year. The results 
of the vote should be publicly announced; and the vote recorded in the minutes.
2.
Nomination of commissioners to serve as Chair and Vice Chair for the coming year can be 
made by any of the current commissioners in attendance.
3.
The Chair and Vice Chair are elected by a majority of the commission for a one-year term 
and hold office until their successors are elected or until their terms as members of the 
commission expire.
4.
The normal convention is a rotation from Vice Chair to Chair. Deviation from this normal 
convention should be extremely rare and must be accompanied by stated justification by 
the Commissioner making a nomination that does not conform to the normal convention.
5.
The City Council believes that experience as a Commissioner will assist those who are 
selected to serve as Chair or Vice Chair, and that it is in everyone’s best interest that 
candidates have experience in cycles of governing to acclimate themselves to the jobs, 
tasks, and roles of the Commission. 
117 of 293

--- page 118 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
13
Chapter 6.
Commissioner Conduct 
1.
Members are committed to governing for all, striving to avoid any appearance of 
impropriety, and running our meetings with civility, decorum, and respect. With that 
spirit, Members shall:
A.
Govern as a body. If we work together well as a team, our City will excel. 
B.
Treat all with dignity, courtesy, and respect. This includes staff, each other, or 
members of the public, on and off the dais. 
C.
Keep confidential matters confidential. 
D.
Respect process and roles. This includes avoiding interruptions and distractions. 
E.
Agree to disagree in a respectful manner. We focus on the issue not the person. 
F.
Keep our comments clear, concise, and on-topic. This respects our colleagues’, the 
public’s, and staffs’ time. 
G.
Give each other a chance to speak. Everyone gets to speak before another of us 
speaks for a second time. We refrain from dominating the discussion. 
H.
The Chair normally speaks last. After other members of the Commission have 
offered their opinions, the Chair speaks. The Chair can speak after each round of 
speaking by Members. 
I.
Be mindful of the impact of our words and tone. We consider this as we address 
each other, staff, and the public. 
J.
Promote discussion and resolution. We present problems and issues in that way. 
K.
Follow the agenda. We begin and end meetings on time. 
L.
Respect the City Charter, rule of law, and decisions once made. We do not attempt 
to undermine decisions. 
M.
Speak for the City only when specifically authorized (see Chapter 10, 
Communication, sections regarding “Speaking for the City” and “Speaking as an 
Individual”). 
N.
Practice a “no surprises” rule. We give a heads up to the Commission staff liaison, 
and City Attorney’s Office represenative (if applicable) out of respect and 
teamwork. 
118 of 293

--- page 119 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
14
O.
Practice the principles of inclusivity and self-awareness to guard against implicit 
bias in our actions and decisions. 
P.
Adhere to all federal, state, and local laws in the performance of their public 
duties, including conflict-of-interest laws. 
Q.
 Not engage in discussion with a member of the public during the meeting.1
R.
Determine whether to schedule a future agenda item for discussion and/or action, 
during Reports and Announcements, when non-agenda items are raised in the 
course of the meeting. 
S.
Meet with the Council liaison to the Commission when requested.
T.
Pay close attention the meeting and limit the use of electronic devices while on 
the dais, except as necessary to access agenda materials or respond to urgent 
personal matters.
U.
When acting in a quasi-judicial capacity: keep an open mind, do not rush to pre-
judge any matter, and be fair and neutral towards all concerned parties.  This 
applies to statements that are verbal and written, including posts on social media.  
At the beginning of the hearing, disclose any ex parte communications (oral or 
written communications from one party outside of the hearing) and describe the 
nature and substance of the communication.
2.
Commissioners may not be employed by the City or provide services under a contract 
with the City. Commissioners may not volunteer in the operations arm of the department 
their commission is affiliated with, without Department Head approval. However, 
Commissioners are encouraged to volunteer for city events, put on by any City 
department, or volunteer in any capacity in other City departments. Commissioners 
enhance their presence in the community by volunteering with local non-profits or 
assisting with community events and serving on special committees.
3.
Commissioners are subject to all the provisions of the City’s Harassment and 
Discrimination Policy (#301).
4.
Commissioners shall complete ethics training at least once every two years, beginning 
with calendar year 2025.   
5.
Enforcement.
A.
Where a Commissioner is allegedly not following the rules set forth in this Chapter 
(“Code of Conduct”), any concerned Council member is encouraged to resolve the 
1 Items Q-T are included within the existing Commissioner Conduct chapter and do not overlap with the 
new conduct. Staff recommends retaining items Q-T for this reason. 
119 of 293

--- page 120 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
15
matter on an informal basis through direct conversations, or by referral to the Mayor or 
Council Liaison to the Commission to privately counsel the subject Commissioner.  
B.
If the offense(s) continue, or if warranted due to the serious nature of an initial 
violation, two Council members may file a complaint regarding the conduct of a 
Commissioner for an alleged violation of the Code of Conduct.  The complaint shall 
be in writing and filed with the City Clerk, with a copy to the City Manager and City 
Attorney.  A copy of the complaint shall be promptly provided to the Council and 
to the Commissioner.  The City Clerk shall place the complaint on the next 
available City Council agenda for initial consideration.  The Commissioner who is 
the subject of the complaint may include a written response to be included with 
the agenda packet or may verbally address the complaint at the Council meeting, 
or both.  
C.
At the meeting where the complaint is considered, a Council majority (3 votes) 
shall decide whether to (1) take no action, (2) reprimand the subject 
Commissioner and require them to promptly take ethics training (in addition to 
any training required by law), or (3) schedule the matter for a future hearing to 
consider a formal resolution of censure, revoke seniority, and/or restrict payment 
of expenses such as for official travel.  Alternatively, the Council may direct the 
City Manager or City Attorney to investigate the matter, or to engage a third party 
to do so, and bring it back to the Council following completion of the investigation.  
D.
If a Council majority (3 votes) directs the scheduling of a hearing, it should also 
appoint one or two Council members to draft a censure resolution to be included 
with the agenda packet.  At the hearing, the Commissioner who is the subject of 
the complaint shall have the opportunity to rebut the allegations in the report 
either themselves or through a representative.  The formal rules of evidence shall 
not apply, and the hearing shall be generally informal.  
E.
At the close of the hearing, a Council majority (3 votes) shall decide whether to (1) 
take no action, (2) issue a reprimand and require the Commissioner to promptly 
take ethics training (beyond what is required by law), or (3) adopt a censure 
resolution, revoke seniority, and/or restrict payment of expenses such as for 
official travel.  Any action taken by the Council is final and is not subject to appeal 
or reconsideration.  
120 of 293

--- page 121 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
16
Chapter 7.
Meetings
1.
All Commission decisions must be taken at Commission meetings only after hearing the 
presentation, project applicants, and hearing all public comments/testimony, then only 
under Commission discussion with colleagues should Commission Members opinions be 
shared, and deliberations engaged in before making any decision or taking action.
2.
No business may be transacted by the commission at a regular or special meeting unless a 
quorum of the membership is present (50% plus one of those currently appointed).
3.
Commission Meeting Dates
A.
If at any time any regular meeting of the Commission falls on a holiday or if it is 
known that a quorum will not be available, the meeting may be rescheduled to the 
earliest convenient time.
B.
The Boards and Commissions shall adopt a schedule of quarterly or more frequent 
meetings on an annual basis, which become the regular meeting dates.
C.
Regular meeting dates may be amended with the approval of the Commission.
4.
Types of Meetings
A.
Regular Meetings are those identified in the adopted meeting schedule. Regular 
meetings are agendized and posted at least 72 hours in advance of the meeting. 
B.
Special Meetings are called at a non-regular meeting date and time. They are 
called by the Chair or Commission with a minimum of 24 hours’ notice, versus 72 
hours’ notice for regular meetings.
C.
Study Sessions are special meetings that are held for the purpose of providing 
information to the Commission, particularly on issues that are more complex or 
more time-consuming than matters typically scheduled on regular Commission 
meetings. At study sessions Commissioners may collectively provide direction to 
City staff, or to an applicant in the case of the Planning Commission. Typically, no 
action is taken at the study sessions, but direction may be given.
D.
Closed Sessions at the commission level would be very rare and would only occur 
at the direction of the City Attorney. The procedures for the conduct of the closed 
sessions shall be the same as those for open session meetings, except that the 
public, after allowance for public comment, will be excluded.
E.
Emergency Meetings are allowed per the Ralph M. Brown Act when an emergency 
situation involving matters upon which prompt action is necessary due to the 
disruption or threatened disruption of the public’s well-being. 
121 of 293

--- page 122 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
17
F.
Adjourned Meetings due to Power Outages In the event that the location of 
meeting loses electrical power or suffers an internet connection outage not 
corrected within 15 minutes, the meeting may be adjourned to a date certain. Any 
items noticed as public hearings will be continued to the next regularly scheduled 
meeting of the Commission. Any other agenda items the Commission has not 
taken action on will be placed on a future agenda.
5.
Voting
A motion, second, and a majority vote of the Commission shall be required for any formal 
action of Commission. If the meeting is virtual, or any member is teleconferencing in, the 
vote must be taken by roll call vote.
6.
The Chair, with the approval of a majority of the Commission, can change the order of 
hearing of items on the agenda. Staff may make suggestions on the order due to practical 
and logistical issues.
7.
Public Participation
A.
All members of the public are encouraged and invited to participate in the 
legislative process of the City’s Boards and Commissions, for example by 
submission of comments before the meeting or speaking in person, or virtually 
when offered, at the scheduled meeting.
B.
It is the intent of these rules to allow everyone to be heard without fear of cheers 
or jeers that may discourage public participation. For these reasons, these rules 
are taken seriously. Disruptive or unruly behavior can result in removal from the 
Commission meeting to the extent allowed by state law.  The presiding member of 
a legislative body may remove an individual for disrupting a meeting after the 
individual first receives a warning yet continues the disruptive behavior. The 
legislative body may also decide to clear the room if interruptions render the 
orderly conduct of the meeting unfeasible and order cannot be restored by the 
removal of disruptive individual(s) alone.
C.
Public meetings are considered a limited public forum in which the speaker must 
stay on-topic if speaking to a particular agenda item. If speaking during general 
public comment, they must address matters within the subject matter jurisdiction 
of the City. If speakers fail to follow these rules, they will be warned, and if they 
continue to disregard the rules, their opportunity to speak will be ended.
D.
The Chair may, at their discretion with commission concurrence, limit the amount 
of time allotted to speakers when needed, per the following time limits.
E.
Generally, time Limits for public comment are dependent on the number of 
speakers:
122 of 293

--- page 123 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
18
1.
Individual Speakers - 3 minutes 
a. between 1 -10: 3 minutes
b. between 11-20: 2 minutes
c.
over 21 speakers: 1 minute
2.
Organized group (in lieu of individual speakers) – up to five (5) minutes for 
a group presentation,, with as many speakers as can be accommodated 
within the time allowance. To qualify for a group presentation, all 
individuals associated with the presentation must be clearly identified and 
confirmed as in attendance at the meeting.
3.
Yielding of Time. To ensure that all persons have an ample opportunity to 
be heard, all speakers will be recognized for the same amount of time. No 
speaker will be allowed to yield all or part of their time to another, and no 
speaker will be credited with time requested but not used by another.
4.
The Chair shall manage public comments such that no individual speaker is 
allotted a disproportionate amount of time. 
F.
In-person members of the public are invited to speak at the lectern microphone, 
whenever available, to ensure all attendees can hear and so that the recording can 
be captured.
G.
Presentation Materials – Videos, slide shows, and other visual materials may be 
used during public comment or group presentations, provided they do not exceed 
the allotted speaking time. Any content still in progress when the time expires will 
be stopped. All presentation materials must be submitted for review – both for 
technical compatibility and relevance to subject matter or city business – no later 
than one (1) business day before the meeting. 
H.
Individuals who wish to speak in-person should submit a speaker card to the 
commission’s Staff Admin for in-person meetings. For remote meetings conducted 
virtually, the raise the hand feature is used and managed by the Staff Admin. The 
Staff Admin will announce the last opportunity to submit forms or raise hands and 
announce when the time has closed for public comment on any particular item.
I.
Commissioners should be careful to not engage in back-and-forth questions or 
discussion with public speakers. If a member of the public raises a question, the 
Chair should invite staff (or an applicant before the Planning Commission) to 
respond to any questions raised at the end of the public comment period.
8.
Agendized Discussion Items (Public Hearings, New Business, Old Business)
123 of 293

--- page 124 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
19
A.
Staff / applicant presentation
B.
Open public hearing (or public comment section) for testimony
C.
Close public hearing (or public comment section)
D.
Response by staff to public questions/concerns (or by an applicant before the 
Planning Commission), if warranted
E.
Council questions to applicant and/or staff.
F.
Commission discussion and deliberation.
G.
Commission votes.
9.
Appeals
A.
Appeals are public hearings and will follow the order stated above with the 
following time allocations:
1.
Appellant – 15 minutes
2.
Applicant (if not the Appellant) – 15 minutes
3.
Individual Speakers – as outlined in Section 7(E)1 above.
4.
Rebuttal (Applies to Appellant and Applicant) – 5 minutes each.
5.
Clarification (Staff may offer explanation or clarification for the testimony) 
6.
If the appellant is also the applicant, only one 15-minute presentation is 
allowed. 
B.
Any person that addressed the Commission during one of the fifteen-minute 
periods may not speak again during the public comment period for individual 
speakers on the appeal. 
10.
Items Considered after 11:00 p.m.
11.
At 11 pm, in order to ensure effective discourse on an item, the Commission will 
determine with a majority vote on whether to continue with an item or take up any 
unheard items.
124 of 293

--- page 125 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
20
12.
Action Minutes
A.
The City Council and all of its Boards and Commissions shall use Action Minutes to 
record the decisions of the body.
B.
Action Minutes contain very little, if any, narrative content and do not capture 
details of public comments, or Commissioner comments, questions, and opinions. 
The staff is responsible for producing the minutes. Commissioners may request 
correction only of factual errors when presented with the draft minutes. No 
supplemental materials may be appended to minutes. 
C.
Motions and votes are shown in the record, whenever applicable.
D.
Media (audio/video) recordings will be used to provide a verbatim record of 
meetings and are kept as identified in the City’s Records Retention Schedule.
13.
Conflict of Interest
A.
The Political Reform Act (PRA), implemented and enforced by the Fair Political 
Practices Commission (FPPC), controls financial conflicts of interest. 
B.
The other applicable law is Government Code §1090, which applies only to City 
contracts in which a public official has a financial interest.
C.
Whenever it appears to a Commissioner that they may have a prohibited financial 
interest in any City contract, or an item that may be presented to the Commission, 
the Commissioner should consult with the City Attorney at the earliest opportunity 
for advice on whether a disqualifying conflict of interest exists. 
D.
If the City Attorney is consulted on such a matter, the City Attorney shall provide 
their advice in writing, and shall provide a copy of their opinion to the 
Commission, the City Council, the City Manager, the affiliated Department Head, 
and the Staff Liaison.
E.
With full consideration of the City Attorney’s advice, it is up to each individual 
Council Member to decide for themselves whether there is a conflict of interest.
F.
A member shall not vote upon or participate in any matter on which they have a 
conflict of interest.
G.
A member shall openly state the reason for their conflict of interest.
H.
A member who is disqualified by a conflict of interest shall recuse themselves from 
the dais and leave the room unless it is during the Consent Calendar
125 of 293

--- page 126 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
21
Chapter 8.
Meeting Agendas
1.
Agenda Order
Commission agendas will be prepared by the Staff Liaison to the commission and 
presented to the Commission in the order described below, except where the Staff Liaison 
determines that a different order is appropriate under the circumstances
A.
Opening
1.
Pledge of Allegiance
2.
Roll Call
B.
Consent Calendar
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Commission 
to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If discussion is 
desired, that item may be removed by a Commission member and considered 
separately. Members of the public may speak to any Consent Calendar item 
without the item being pulled. 
C.
Public Comment
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the 
agenda may address the Commission at this time. State law prevents Commissions 
from taking action on any matter not on the agenda. Comments may be referred 
to staff for follow-up. Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, 
an opportunity for additional public comment will be provided later in the agenda, 
if needed. Timing is per Chapter 7(E)1 of these Rules.
D.
Public Hearing
Duly noticed hearings as mandated by local, state, or federal law, providing an 
opportunity for public review and comment of a proposed action by the 
Commission.
E.
Old Business
Non-routine items that have been presented before that require further oral 
presentation and/or discussion before action is taken.
F.
New Business
Non-routine items requiring an oral presentation and discussion before action is 
taken.
126 of 293

--- page 127 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
22
G.
Reports and Announcements
Commissioners provide an update on any meetings they attended in their 
commissioner role and Commissioners may make individual requests to schedule 
future items for consideration. Commissioners should notify the Staff Liaison in 
advance if they intend to make such a request. A majority vote of the Commission 
is required to place a request on a future agenda.  
H.
Additional Public Comment (if needed)
I.
Adjourn
2.
Agenda Item Submission
A.
The Staff Liaison coordinates all agenda items for consideration on a given agenda. 
In order to ensure that each item for discussion has been thoroughly analyzed in 
advance, an Agenda Report shall be prepared.  
1.
The preparation of Agenda Reports applies to all Boards and Commissions 
in order to ensure:
a.
The Board or Commission has all the information needed to make a 
well-informed decision; and 
b.
Any action is fully transparent to the public. 
2.
Agenda Reports shall be part of the public agenda packet issued prior to 
the meeting. Copies of the agenda, Agenda Reports and supporting 
materials shall be made available to the public at the meeting.
B.
A Commissioner may request an item be considered on a future agenda and, upon 
a majority vote of the Commission, staff will prepare an Agenda Report and 
agendize the item for a future meeting. Before the vote, staff will provide 
information, if available, on how much staff time would be required to produce 
the Agenda Report.
C.
Members of the Public 
1.
A member of the public may request Commission action in the following 
ways:
a.
Write a letter or email to the Commission. 
b.
Speak during the Public Comment period at a Board / Commission 
meeting.
127 of 293

--- page 128 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
23
2.
The first response is for the staff liaison to address concerns raised directly 
outside the meeting regarding the issue. 
3.
If a majority of the Commission agrees, the item will be agendized at a 
future meeting.
128 of 293

--- page 129 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
24
Chapter 9.
Financial Matters
1.
All Commissioners serve as volunteers without compensation or a stipend.
2.
Commissioner Expense Reimbursement Policy
It is rare that a Commissioner would need reimbursement, but in the event that they do, 
the following policy shall apply:
A.
Authorized Expenses
1.
City funds, equipment, supplies, titles, and staff time must only be used for 
authorized city business. 
2.
Expenses incurred while attending educational seminars designed to 
improve officials’ skill and information levels are permitted with pre-
approval from the affiliated Department Head.
3.
All other expenses require prior approval by the City Council.
4.
The City will not reimburse the following expenses:
a.
The personal portion of any trip.
b.
Political contributions or events.
c.
Family expenses, including partner’s expenses when accompanying 
official on agency-related business.
d.
Entertainment expenses, such as movies, sporting events, or 
cultural events.
e.
Non-mileage personal automobile expenses, including repairs, 
citations, insurance or gasoline.
B.
Cost Control
To conserve City resources and keep expenses within community standards for 
public officials, expenditures should adhere to the following guidelines. If expenses 
are incurred that exceed these guidelines, the cost borne or reimbursed by the 
City will be limited to the costs that fall within these guidelines.
1.
Airfare
Airfares that are equal to or less than those available through the League of 
California Cities, the California State Association of Counties and the State 
129 of 293

--- page 130 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
25
of California are presumed to be the most economical and reasonable for 
purposes of reimbursement under this policy. If no discounted airfare is 
available through these entities, then the most reasonable and economical 
airfare possible.
2.
Airport Parking
Long-term parking must be used for travel exceeding 24 hours.
3.
Automobile
Mileage shall be reimbursed at IRS rates presently in effect (see 
www.irs.gov). These rates are designed to compensate the driver for 
gasoline, insurance, maintenance, and other expenses. In addition, drivers 
may be reimbursed for bridge and road tolls. For rental vehicles, only 
receipted fuel expenses will be reimbursed.
4.
Car Rental
Rental rates that are equal or less than those available through the State of 
California’s website Car Rental Resources for State Travel shall be 
considered the most economical and reasonable for purposes of 
reimbursement under this policy.
5.
Conferences/Meetings
If such lodging is in connection with a conference, lodging expenses must 
not exceed the group rate published by the conference sponsor for the 
meeting in question if such rates are available at the time of booking. If the 
group rate is not available, rates that are equal to or less than the group 
rate at the host hotel are presumed to be reasonable and reimbursable for 
purposes of this policy.
6.
Internet
Officials will be reimbursed for Internet access connection and/or usage 
fees away from home, if Internet access is necessary for City business.
7.
Lodging
Commissioners are expected to select the most cost-effective and logical 
lodging available, including utilizing the lodging at the conference/training 
site, if available. If there is not specific lodging associated with the official 
City business, the City shall pay for actual lodging expenses up to the 
United States General Services Administration (GSA) maximum rate 
allowed by location (http://www.gsa.gov/portal/content/104877). This 
130 of 293

--- page 131 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
26
maximum applies to the room rate only and does not include any taxes or 
fees. Government rates for lodging are often available and should be 
sought. The City will pay only for standard single rooms, including taxes 
and fees, for individual Council members, and any additional nonbusiness 
expenses incurred will be paid by the Council member.
8.
Meals
The City will pay for a Commissioner’s meals during authorized, required 
travel up to the per diem amount (Per Diem Rates | GSA). If meals are 
included in the cost of a conference or training, the City will not pay for a 
meal that a Commissioner elects to purchase from another source. Unlike 
lodging, using the per diem methodology for meals that is limited to the 
GSA amount eliminates the need for employees to submit receipts. Thus, 
the Commissioner only needs to report the per diem amounts in the 
expense report, but not the actual receipts. This only applies to meals, as 
all other travel expenses require a receipt to substantiate the purchase. 
When the meal function is an organized event, the official shall be 
reimbursed the amount being charged by the event organizer for the meal. 
The City will not pay for alcohol/personal bar expenses.
9.
Taxis/Shuttles
Taxis or shuttle fares may be reimbursed, including a 15 percent gratuity 
per fare, when the cost of such fares is equal or less than the cost of car 
rentals, gasoline, and parking combined, or when such transportation is 
necessary for time-efficiency.
10.
Telephone/Fax/Cellular
Officials will be reimbursed for actual telephone and fax expenses incurred 
on City business. Telephone bills should identify which calls were made on 
City business.
11.
Transportation
Officials traveling on City business shall use the most economical mode and 
class of transportation reasonably consistent with scheduling needs and 
cargo space requirements, using the most direct, time-efficient route. 
Government and group rates must be used when available.
131 of 293

--- page 132 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
27
C.
Expense Reports
1.
Expense reimbursement requests must be submitted on an expense report 
form provided by the City. Reports must document how the expenditure 
met the requirements of this policy.
2.
Expense reports must be submitted within 30 days of an expense being 
incurred; and must be accompanied by receipts documenting each 
expense. 
3.
Expense reports are a public record.
D.
Audits of Expenses
All expenses are subject to verification that they comply with this policy.
E.
Reports on Meetings
Each official shall briefly give an oral report on any Brown Act meetings they 
attended for which they receive expense reimbursement at their next City Council, 
Board, or Commission meeting.
F.
Violation of this Policy
Under state law, use of public resources or falsifying expense reports in violation 
of this policy may result in any or all of the following: 1) loss of reimbursement 
privileges, 2) a demand for restitution to the City, 3) the agency’s reporting the 
expenses as income to the official to state and federal tax authorities, 4) civil 
penalties of up to $1,000 per day and three times the value of the resources used, 
and 5) prosecution for misuse of public resources.
132 of 293

--- page 133 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
28
Chapter 10.
Communication
1.
All communications are public records. 
All letters, memoranda, email, texts and other platform writing communications involving 
members of boards, commissions, committees and task forces, the subject of which relate 
to the conduct of government or the performance of any governmental function, with a 
few exceptions as outlined in the Public Records Act, are public records. 
2.
The City Council, in adopting this policy, does not waive attorney-client privilege or any 
other privilege associated with a closed session authorized under the Ralph M. Brown Act. 
3.
Ralph M. Brown Act
Each Commissioner should be mindful of all the requirements of the Brown Act in 
communicating with each other.
4.
Correspondence
A.
After the Commission has taken a position on an issue, official correspondence 
should reflect this position. While Commissioners who may disagree with a 
position are free to prepare correspondence on such issues as private citizens, City 
letterhead, official Board or Commission title, and staff support should not be 
utilized.
B.
City letterhead, logo, insignia and brand, as well as, staff support cannot be 
utilized for personal or political purposes.
C.
Generally, correspondence relating to a specific Commission agenda item shall be 
distributed with the agenda report; correspondence received after the publication 
of agenda packet will be compiled and distributed to the Commission prior to the 
meeting (known as a Dais packet). This additional correspondence is appended to 
the Agenda Report as public comment on the public meeting portal and in the 
records repository permanent record. Any further correspondence received 
between posting of the Dais packet and until the end of when the item is heard, 
will also be appended to the Agenda report as supplemental correspondence.
5.
Electronic Communication Record Retention
A.
Commissioners are issued City of San Mateo email addresses and are required to 
use this email for all commission related communication. The City email may not 
be forwarded to a personal email. 
B.
All emails sent and received through the City server are saved for at least three 
years on the City’s network and are subject to the Public Records Act.
133 of 293

--- page 134 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
29
C.
Communication on social media sites are saved for at least two years.
D.
Text messages sent on any City-provided device are saved for at least two years.
6.
Social Media Use as a Commission Member
Social media are internet-based platforms that allow for interactive communication and 
engagement with the public. For example, these may include (without limitation): 
Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube, TikTok, Snapchat, Nextdoor, blogs, etc.
The City’s image as a professional organization is critical to maintaining the respect of the 
public, and members should use discretion when posting or communicating on social 
media. If Commission Members choose to maintain and use personal social media 
accounts to conduct City business, they must follow current federal and state regulations, 
as well as Council and City policies.
A.
Brown Act:  Social media postings may turn into an interactive dialogue. The 
Brown Act has expanded to provide guidance on elected officials’ use of media 
platforms that are free of charge and open and accessible to the public.
1.
Permitted Uses: You may answer questions, provide information to the 
public and solicit information from the public about city business; share a 
City post to your Council Member site; and tag other elected officials in a 
post.
2.
Prohibited Uses: A majority of the members may not use social media to 
discuss agency business and a member may not respond directly to any 
posting by another member regarding agency business including no ‘likes’ 
‘thumbs up’, ‘emojis’ or other symbols.
B.
First Amendment. Commissioners’ social media platforms can become public 
forums subject to First Amendment requirements.  If a social media platform is 1) 
used for City business and 2) has interactive features that are accessible to the 
public without limitation, it is a public forum.  The City’s Social Media Policy 
contains rules for public participation and addresses what will constitute 
unacceptable content.  In general, officials may not block a member of the public 
from their social media sites if those sites have become public forums.  If 
unacceptable content appears on a site that has become a public forum, please 
consult with City staff.
C.
Public Records: Members are prohibited from deleting social media posts and 
related comments regarding any City-related matters to avoid violating the 
California Public Records Act. Social media is subject to the City’s record retention 
schedule.
134 of 293

--- page 135 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
30
D.
Best practices: Officials should be honest and accurate when posting information 
or news, especially when communicating during a crisis or emergency. Any 
mistakes, misstatements and/or factual errors must be corrected quickly upon 
discovery. News of citywide importance should first be announced by the official 
City-affiliated accounts then can be reshared by Commissioners. Unless the 
member has been designated to serve as a spokesperson, members should never 
represent themselves as a spokesperson for the entire Commission or City. 
Members should be mindful of recognizing that accomplishments of the City or 
Commission are achieved by collective action of the entire body or organization, 
not by any individual commissioner.
E.
Quasi-Judicial Capacity:  see Chapter 6 (Commissioner Conduct) for rules 
addressing the use of social media when Commissioners are acting in a quasi-
judicial capacity.  
7.
Written Communications for Commission Meetings on Agenda Items
A.
The deadline for the receipt of written communications for inclusion in the agenda 
packet is up to 4:00 pm one week before the Commission meeting. This is to allow 
for adequate staff review and analysis, and to ensure public access to information; 
on all plans, correspondence, and other documents being heard by the 
Commission. Contact the Commission’s Staff Liaison or Staff Admin for specifics.
B.
To be included in the addendum to the packet, items may be received up until 4 
pm the day of the scheduled meeting. 
C.
Materials distributed to Commissioners during the meeting shall be available for 
viewing by the public during the meeting if the materials were prepared by the 
City or a Commissioner, or at the conclusion of the meeting if prepared by another 
person.
D.
If a Commissioner receives materials regarding an agenda item, they shall forward 
it the Staff Liaison as soon as possible.
8.
Commission - Staff Relations
A.
Commissioners may make requests of City staff through their Department Head 
for limited research and information. Requests that will require significant staff 
time, as determined by the Staff Liaison, may be referred to the full Commission 
and only pursued if supported by a majority of the Commission.  All requests for 
research and information shall be made through the Staff Liaison.
B.
Commissioners are encouraged to submit their questions on agenda items to the 
Staff Liaison as far in advance of the meeting as possible so that staff can be 
prepared to respond at the Commission meeting. 
135 of 293

--- page 136 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
31
C.
Clarifications or technical questions will be answered before the meeting 
whenever possible.
D.
Questions and all staff-prepared responses will be forwarded to all 
Commissioners.
9.
Speaking for “the City”
Similar to written correspondence, when Commissioners are requested to speak to 
groups or are asked the Commission’s position on an issue, the response should reflect 
the position of the Commission as a whole. Of course, a member may clarify their vote on 
a matter by stating, for example, “While I voted against X, the Commission voted in 
support of it.” When representing the City at meetings or other venues, it is important 
that those in attendance gain an understanding of the Commission’s position rather than 
that of an individual member.  
10.
Speaking as an Individual
On occasion, Commissioners may wish to transmit correspondence on an issue upon 
which the Commission has yet to take a position or about an issue for which the 
Commission has no position. In these circumstances, members should clearly indicate in 
their communications that they are not speaking for the Commission or the City as a 
whole, but for themselves as an individual.  
136 of 293

--- page 137 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
32
Chapter 11.
Boards and Commissions Selection 
Process
1.
Refer to the San Mateo City Charter Article VI on Boards and Commissions.
2.
Reappointments, Vacancies and Appointments
A.
The City Clerk’s Office manages the Boards and Commissions (hereafter referred 
to as “Commission” for ease of reference) application process. The process begins 
with the Clerk contacting members who are eligible for appointment to a second 
term and finding out their interest in reappointment.  
B.
The City Clerk then shares the results with each appointment subcommittee and 
receives direction on the need to schedule an appointment subcommittee meeting 
to provide direction on reappointments. The default is that currently serving 
Commissioners will each be interviewed for reappointment. However, if it is 
determined that a commissioner’s performance is outstanding, or that other 
factors necessitate keeping them in their role, then an automatic reappointment 
can occur with a majority vote or majority consensus of the City Council. Any 
commission seat selected for re-interview means the seat will be processed as part 
of the full annual recruitment and the currently sitting commissioner may be 
interviewed along with other applicants. Commission recruitment occurs annually 
in the months of April and May and is managed by the City Clerk’s Office. For these 
routine vacancies, the announcement is made approximately two months prior to 
the date on which the vacancy is to occur.
C.
The City Clerk recruits for all open seats utilizing multiple avenues including 
advertising, the website, social media and networking lists to present qualified 
candidates to the Council for consideration.
D.
The interview and selection of candidates is an open process.
E.
The City Clerk receives the applications (ideally a minimum of three applications is 
sought for each vacant seat) and arranges for the appropriate sub-committee, in a 
noticed special meeting, to interview applicants and form their recommendation.
F.
Commissioners, Board and committee members (hereafter referred to as 
“Commissioners” for ease of reference) are appointed by a majority vote of the 
City Council and serve staggered terms.
G.
A City Council Appointment Subcommittee conducts the candidate interviews and 
makes a recommendation for Council approval. The Council will receive the full list 
of candidates for each opening. 
137 of 293

--- page 138 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
33
H.
The Appointment Subcommittee recommendations for new and reappointed 
Commissioners are confirmed by Council under the Consent Calendar at regular 
Council meetings. A staff report summarizing the Subcommittees’ 
recommendations will be provided to the full City Council and will include the list 
of all candidates reviewed by the subcommittee. The Council may adopt the 
recommendations as presented or pull the item for further discussion. A majority 
vote of the Council approves the appointees.
I.
The designated Appointment Subcommittee may establish an eligibility list for up 
to two applicants that will remain in effect for a six-month period.
J.
Unscheduled Vacancies
1.
Subject to the Maddy Act (California Government Code § 54970), if an 
unscheduled vacancy occurs on a commission, the Council may either 
appoint from the pool of applicants on file (the eligibility list if there is one 
available) or open up the position to new applications where the above 
process is followed.
2.
For such non-routine vacancies, the announcement for new applications is 
made as soon as possible in order to maintain viable memberships on the 
various boards and commissions.
3.
All appointments occur in an open public meeting.
K.
Youth Activities Council (YAC) Selection Process
The YAC is not appointed directly by the City Council but through an application 
method administered by Parks and Recreation. High school students from all of 
the City’s public high schools, as well as Junipero Serra High School and Nueva 
Upper School, are recruited for potential participation starting in the late spring of 
each year.
138 of 293

--- page 139 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
34
Chapter 12.
References
1.
San Mateo City Charter, §2.03, 2.04, 2.12, Article VI
2.
Ralph M. Brown Act (California Government Code, § 54950 et seq.)
3.
California Government Code, § 53234 et seq.
4.
San Mateo Municipal Code
5.
California Public Records Act (California Government Code, § 6250 et seq.)
6.
AB 1234 California Government Code, § 53232.3
7.
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order
Prior Revisions:  January 17, 2017, April 17, 2017, April 16, 2018, May 21, 2018, May 3, 2021, 
February 22, 2022, October 17, 2022, April 1, 2024, July 15, 2024, and June 16, 2025.
139 of 293

--- page 140 ---
Boards and Commissions 
Rules and Procedures
Adopted on August 17, 2015
by Resolution No. 82 (2015)
Last Amended by Council Action on: 
January 17, 2017, April 17, 2017, April 16, 2018, May 21, 2018, May 3, 2021, 
September 6, 2022 and April 1, 2024, June 16. 2025 August 18, 2025
140 of 293

--- page 141 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
2
City of San Mateo, Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures
Table of Contents
Chapter 1.
Purpose and Overview .............................................................................................3
Chapter 2.
Commission Authority..............................................................................................4
Chapter 3.
Governance Principles..............................................................................................7
Chapter 4.
Duties .......................................................................................................................8
Chapter 5.
Selection of Chair and Vice Chair ...........................................................................12
Chapter 6.
Commissioner Conduct ..........................................................................................13
Chapter 7.
Meetings ................................................................................................................16
Chapter 8.
Meeting Agendas ...................................................................................................21
Chapter 9.
Financial Matters....................................................................................................24
Chapter 10.
Communication......................................................................................................28
Chapter 11.
Boards and Commissions Selection Process...........................................................32
Chapter 12.
References..............................................................................................................34
141 of 293

--- page 142 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
3
Chapter 1.
Purpose and Overview 
This manual describes the way the City of San Mateo’s Boards and Commissions do their 
business. It is a compilation of all Board and Commission (hereafter referred to as 
“Commission” for the sake of brevity) rules and procedures that have been formally adopted by 
Council. These Rules and Procedures (“Rules”) supersede individual Commission bylaws. 
These Rules are intended to enhance public participation and debate so that the best possible 
decisions can be made for San Mateo. These Rules set a standard of professionalism, civility and 
decorum for the conduct of the City’s business. San Mateo has a long and proud tradition of 
open government and civil, intelligent public discourse. These rules, which must be approved by 
the City Council as a body, are subject to review and future modification by the City Council as 
needed.
Appointed Board and Commission members are expected to understand and comply with these 
Rules and Procedures. Failure to comply with the rules and procedures outlined in this 
document may be cause for removal from the appointed position.
Amendments to these Rules are made and approved by the City Council as a body; and are 
subject to review and future modification as needed.
142 of 293

--- page 143 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
4
Chapter 2.
Commission Authority
1.
Commission Authority, Generally
A.
The primary role of City commissions is to increase public input and participation 
in the determination of City policies and some programs. 
B.
The specific role of a City commission is to review and make recommendations to 
the City Council on matters within its scope of responsibility as defined in the 
Charter or Municipal Code. The commissions are basically a citizen’s advisory arm 
of the City Council, although certain commissions, such as the Planning 
Commission, may take final actions in certain prescribed areas.
C.
Most importantly, the commission serves as a vehicle for public input into City 
programs and policies referred to it by the City Council or brought to its attention 
by staff. 
D.
The commission also serves to reduce the reevaluation of these matters before 
the City Council.
E.
On the specific matters referred to it by the City Council, the commission serves as 
the principal reviewing body of the City.
F.
Commissions adhere to the City Council’s policies on the programs under their 
scopes of interest.
G.
Commissions serve to represent the general interests of the entire City and not 
specific program areas or specific interest groups.
H.
Commissions are encouraged to express their views on issues, projects, or policies 
brought to them by the City department.
I.
As further described below, the Planning Commission has a distinct role with the 
City in that it makes decisions and recommendations to the Council on land use 
matters.  These include development applications submitted by project 
proponents.  
2.
Applicability
The complete scope of responsibilities for each commission is identified either in the 
Charter or in the City’s Municipal Code and will be provided by the Departments 
supporting the commission. When not in conflict with the Charter of the City of San 
Mateo, or the Constitution or laws of the State of California, these Commission Rules and 
Procedures (“Rules”) shall be in effect upon adoption of the Council.
143 of 293

--- page 144 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
5
3.
Authority of Each Board / Commission
The authority of the City of San Mateo’s Boards and Commissions are described in the San 
Mateo City Charter Article VI, as well as its Municipal Code Title 2 Administration and 
Personnel in Chapters 2.15, 2.21, 2.24, 2.26, 2.27, 2.28, 2.29 and 2.57.
A.
Library Board:
The Library Board oversees the Library department’s policies and accepts in the 
name of the City money, personal and real property donated for Library purposes.
B.
Personnel Board:
The Personnel Board hears appeals submitted by any person in the competitive 
service relative to any disciplinary action, dismissal, demotion, charge of 
discrimination, or alleged violation of municipal code chapter 2.57, and to certify 
its findings and recommendations as provided in the personnel system rules.
C.
Community Relations Commission (CRC): 
The CRC addresses a broad spectrum of social issues and related policy and 
provides oversight for Federal grant programs that implement public services, 
housing, and community development programs. It is also the hearing and appeals 
board for Code Enforcement related cases.
D.
Park & Recreation Commission:
The Park and Recreation Commission makes recommendations to the City Council 
on acquisition, development, beautification and maintenance of public parks, 
landscape resources, public recreation facilities, budget, and programs of park and 
recreation activities.
E.
Planning Commission:
The Planning Commission hears requests and makes decisions and 
recommendations on land use projects.  This body also recommends policy 
changes to the City Council.
F.
Senior Citizens Advisory Commission:
The Senior Citizens Advisory Commission encourages, fosters, and facilitates 
programs for the enhancement of all matters relating to the social, economic, and 
personal well-being of the senior population.
144 of 293

--- page 145 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
6
G.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
The Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission was established in 2018, 
consolidating the Public Works Commission and Sustainability Commission into 
one commission. It is the duty of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
to advise on policies and programs related to environmental sustainability, 
transportation and infrastructure.
H.
Investment Advisory Committee (IAC):
The IAC serves as an administrative advisory committee to the City Manager. The 
IAC provides added insight and an independent perspective on the City’s 
investment policies and practices. 
I.
Youth Activity Council (YAC):
The Youth Activity Council provides experiences and opportunities for the youth 
and young adult population by: providing safe and enjoyable activities; creating 
community through special events; enhancing leadership and decision-making 
skills; providing service learning experiences; practicing civic participation and 
empowering our youth’s voice with our decision makers.
4.
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order
To the extent these Rules do not address an issue of parliamentary procedure for 
legislative body meetings, Rosenberg’s Rules of Order: Simple Parliamentary Procedures 
for the 21st Century shall apply.
145 of 293

--- page 146 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
7
Chapter 3.
Governance Principles
In alignment with the City Council governance principles, each Board and Commission acts as a 
body, not as individuals. Commissioners understand and acknowledge the City is run on a 
Council-Manager form of governance and will respect professional staff’s role and the City 
Manager as leader of the City organization’s operations. Commissioners should be aware of and 
mindful of the impact of requests on limited staff resources.
146 of 293

--- page 147 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
8
Chapter 4.
Duties
1.
Duties of the Chair
A.
All City commissions elect a presiding officer, known as a chairperson for a one-
year period.
B.
The Chair sets the tone for the entire meeting.
C.
To conduct meetings of the Commission as its chairperson efficiently:
1.
Ensure that consideration of items on the agenda move along without 
delay.
2.
Ensure that petitioners, proponents, and opponents are heard but not 
allowed to disrupt the meeting. 
3.
Ensure that decorum and civility is maintained during the meeting.
4.
In presiding over matters where the public has provided comment or 
testimony and/or raised questions, the Chair should:
a.
At the end of the public comment period, restate, if any, relevant 
questions from the public. 
b.
Direct questions or comments requiring a response to staff for a 
response. 
c.
Ensure that staff and members of the public direct their comments 
to the chair and commission members.
d.
Help keep Commissioner comments and questions relevant to the 
matter being considered by the Commission, and schedule non-
agenda topics for subsequent meetings, where necessary and if 
agreed upon by the Commission during Reports and 
Announcements. 
e.
If necessary, consider calling for a brief recess if the orderly conduct 
of the meeting is being disrupted. 
f.
Ensure that the decision and vote of the Commission on all subjects 
is announced. This may occur with the assistance of the City Clerk, 
Staff Liaison or commission clerk.
5.
To ensure that each member of the Commission is provided an opportunity 
to completely express their views on items of business, the Chair should:
147 of 293

--- page 148 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
9
a.
Actively seek commission member comments and ensure that 
Commissioners ask to be recognized by the Chair before speaking to 
maintain an orderly process on the dais.
b.
Make sure that each commission member has had a first chance at 
providing comments, before allowing another commission to make 
additional statements – unless they are asked to clarify their prior 
statement.
c.
Ensure that each commission member is given the opportunity to 
fully express their views.
D.
To correspond on behalf of the Commission, provided that opinions expressed on 
behalf of the Commission or City Government are consistent with the consensus of 
the Commission. 
E.
Nothing under the Chair’s duties shall limit any individual Commissioner’s ability to 
interact with members of the public.
2.
Duties of Vice Chair
In the absence of the Chair from the Commission meeting, the Vice Chair shall possess all 
powers of the Chair and be subject to all prescribed duties for that position.
3.
Duties of Commissioners
A.
Arrive on time for all Commission meetings.
B.
Review all meeting materials in preparation for Commission meetings, and direct 
questions to staff (before meetings, whenever practical) if any item is unclear or 
clarification is needed. 
C.
Alert staff in advance of the meeting whenever possible if an item is intended to 
be pulled off of the Consent Calendar or introduced under Reports and 
Announcements for future Commission consideration.
D.
It is the responsibility of all members to assist the Chair in running an efficient and 
effective meeting by assisting with the orderly disposition of items, helping ensure 
all members are heard, participating fully in meaningful discussion and 
deliberation, keeping comments succinct, concise, civil and germane, and limiting 
repetitive comments. Commissioners are encouraged to hold their colleagues 
accountable for following these rules and do all in their power to contribute to the 
smooth running of a meeting for the community.
E.
All commission members are asked to alert the staff commission liaison when 
receiving media inquiries.
148 of 293

--- page 149 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
10
F.
It is expected that Commissioners will attend all meetings. If a commissioner is 
absent for three consecutive meetings or for 15% of scheduled meetings annually, 
the City Clerk will notify Council who may take action to vacate the seat. The 
Commissioner is expected to notify the Staff Liaison or Staff Admin if they are 
unable to attend a meeting.
G.
For Planning Commissioners, make every effort to participate in the California 
League of Cities Planning Commissioner Academy during the first year as a 
Commissioner, and every other year thereafter.
H.
Read, and use as a primary reference, the Institute for Local Government’s 
Planning Commission Handbook. 
4.
Duties of Staff Liaison
A.
The liaison, an assigned City staff person, has the following responsibilities:
1.
Create meeting schedules.
2.
Prepare meeting agendas and Agenda Reports.
3.
Notify the City Clerk of attendance problems, resignations, and members’ 
change of contact information.
4.
Ensure that sufficient research and analysis has been performed by staff to 
allow an informed decision by the Commission.
5.
Help facilitate and advise the Chair on meeting management.
6.
Ensure that all affected departments have an opportunity for input before 
bringing an item forward for commission consideration.
7.
For the Planning Commission, arrange an annual joint meeting with the 
City Council.
B.
The Staff Liaison, along with the City Clerk, is responsible for ensuring that 
appointed board/commission members are oriented about policies and 
procedures as they relate to the body.
C.
All communications addressed to a specific Board or Commission are received by 
the staff liaison, or their designee, and relayed to the appointed body.
149 of 293

--- page 150 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
11
5.
Duties of Administrative Staff
Each commission also has an administrative staff person (Staff Admin), who works with 
the Staff Liaison, to support the body. Their responsibilities are to:
A.
Provide oversight of agenda preparation and its delivery to the full Commission 
and to the public.
B.
Ensure that meeting materials--including a sufficient number of agendas, universal 
speaker slips, and at least one binder of all related reports being presented at that 
meeting–are available for the public to examine at the meeting.
C.
Produce the action minutes for each meeting.
D.
Provide annually a record of attendance of each commissioner to the City Clerk.
6.
Duties of Council Liaison
A.
Every year the Mayor will appoint Council Members to serve as liaisons to the 
City’s Boards and Commissions.
B.
Council Members act as an advisor and resource to Commissioners and the 
commission’s Staff Liaison when issues regarding process, procedure, 
interpersonal or public relations arise. Commissioners are also welcome to 
approach the Council Liaison for support or if they have any concerns. Council 
Members should refrain from participation at Board and Commission meetings to 
avoid influencing the outcome of those meetings.
150 of 293

--- page 151 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
12
Chapter 5.
Selection of Chair and Vice Chair
1.
Commission reorganization, including rotation of the roles of the Chair and Vice Chair, 
occurs annually at the meeting as close as possible to June 10th of each year. The results 
of the vote should be publicly announced; and the vote recorded in the minutes.
2.
Nomination of commissioners to serve as Chair and Vice Chair for the coming year can be 
made by any of the current commissioners in attendance.
3.
The Chair and Vice Chair are elected by a majority of the commission for a one-year term 
and hold office until their successors are elected or until their terms as members of the 
commission expire.
4.
The normal convention is a rotation from Vice Chair to Chair. Deviation from this normal 
convention should be extremely rare and must be accompanied by stated justification by 
the Commissioner making a nomination that does not conform to the normal convention.
5.
The City Council believes that experience as a Commissioner will assist those who are 
selected to serve as Chair or Vice Chair, and that it is in everyone’s best interest that 
candidates have experience in cycles of governing to acclimate themselves to the jobs, 
tasks, and roles of the Commission. 
151 of 293

--- page 152 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
13
Chapter 6.
Commissioner Conduct 
1.
Members are committed to governing for all, striving to avoid any appearance of 
impropriety, and running our meetings with civility, decorum, and respect. With that 
spirit, Members shall:
A.
Govern as a body. If we work together well as a team, our City will excel. 
B.
Treat all with dignity, courtesy, and respect. This includes staff, each other, or 
members of the public, on and off the dais. 
C.
Keep confidential matters confidential. 
D.
Respect process and roles. This includes avoiding interruptions and distractions. 
E.
Agree to disagree in a respectful manner. We focus on the issue not the person. 
F.
Keep our comments clear, concise, and on-topic. This respects our colleagues’, the 
public’s, and staffs’ time. 
G.
Give each other a chance to speak. Everyone gets to speak before another of us 
speaks for a second time. We refrain from dominating the discussion. 
H.
The Chair normally speaks last. After other members of the Commission have 
offered their opinions, the Chair speaks. The Chair can speak after each round of 
speaking by Members. 
I.
Be mindful of the impact of our words and tone. We consider this as we address 
each other, staff, and the public. 
J.
Promote discussion and resolution. We present problems and issues in that way. 
K.
Follow the agenda. We begin and end meetings on time. 
L.
Respect the City Charter, rule of law, and decisions once made. We do not attempt 
to undermine decisions. 
M.
Speak for the City only when specifically authorized (see Chapter 10, 
Communication, sections regarding “Speaking for the City” and “Speaking as an 
Individual”). 
N.
Practice a “no surprises” rule. We give a heads up to the Commission staff liaison, 
and City Attorney’s Office represenative (if applicable) out of respect and 
teamwork. 
152 of 293

--- page 153 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
14
O.
Practice the principles of inclusivity and self-awareness to guard against implicit 
bias in our actions and decisions. 
P.
Adhere to all federal, state, and local laws in the performance of their public 
duties, including conflict-of-interest laws. 
Q.
 Not engage in discussion with a member of the public during the meeting.1
R.
Determine whether to schedule a future agenda item for discussion and/or action, 
during Reports and Announcements, when non-agenda items are raised in the 
course of the meeting. 
S.
Meet with the Council liaison to the Commission when requested.
T.
Pay close attention the meeting and limit the use of electronic devices while on the 
dais, except as necessary to access agenda materials or respond to urgent personal 
matters.
U.
When acting in a quasi-judicial capacity: keep an open mind, do not rush to pre-
judge any matter, and be fair and neutral towards all concerned parties.  This 
applies to statements that are verbal and written, including those postsed on 
social media.  At the beginning of the hearing, disclose any ex parte 
communications (oral or written communications from one party outside of the 
hearing) and describe the nature and substance of the communication.
2.
Commissioners may not be employed by the City or provide services under a contract 
with the City. Commissioners may not volunteer in the operations arm of the department 
their commission is affiliated with, without Department Head approval. However, 
Commissioners are encouraged to volunteer for city events, put on by any City 
department, or volunteer in any capacity in other City departments. Commissioners 
enhance their presence in the community by volunteering with local non-profits or 
assisting with community events and serving on special committees.
3.
Commissioners are subject to all the provisions of the City’s Harassment and 
Discrimination Policy (#301).
4.
Commissioners shall complete ethics training at least once every two years, beginning 
with calendar year 2025.   
5.
Enforcement.
A.
Where a Commissioner is allegedly not following the rules set forth in this Chapter 
(“Code of Conduct”), any concerned Council member is encouraged to resolve the 
1 Items Q-T are included within the existing Commissioner Conduct chapter and do not overlap with the 
new conduct. Staff recommends retaining items Q-T for this reason. 
153 of 293

--- page 154 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
15
matter on an informal basis through direct conversations, or by referral to the Mayor or 
Council Liaison to the Commission to privately counsel the subject Commissioner.  
B.
If the offense(s) continue, or if warranted due to the serious nature of an initial 
violation, two Council members may file a complaint regarding the conduct of a 
Commissioner for an alleged violation of the Code of Conduct.  The complaint shall 
be in writing and filed with the City Clerk, with a copy to the City Manager and City 
Attorney.  A copy of the complaint shall be promptly provided to the Council and 
to the Commissioner.  The City Clerk shall place the complaint on the next 
available City Council agenda for initial consideration.  The Commissioner who is 
the subject of the complaint may include a written response to be included with 
the agenda packet or may verbally address the complaint at the Council meeting, 
or both.  
C.
At the meeting where the complaint is considered, a Council majority (3 votes) 
shall decide whether to (1) take no action, (2) reprimand the subject 
Commissioner and require them to promptly take ethics training (in addition to 
any training required by law), or (3) schedule the matter for a future hearing to 
consider a formal resolution of censure, revoke seniority, and/or restrict payment 
of expenses such as for official travel.  Alternatively, the Council may direct the 
City Manager or City Attorney to investigate the matter, or to engage a third party 
to do so, and bring it back to the Council following completion of the investigation.  
D.
If a Council majority (3 votes) directs the scheduling of a hearing, it should also 
appoint one or two Council members to draft a censure resolution to be included 
with the agenda packet.  At the hearing, the Commissioner who is the subject of 
the complaint shall have the opportunity to rebut the allegations in the report 
either themselves or through a representative.  The formal rules of evidence shall 
not apply, and the hearing shall be generally informal.  
E.
At the close of the hearing, a Council majority (3 votes) shall decide whether to (1) 
take no action, (2) issue a reprimand and require the Commissioner to promptly 
take ethics training (beyond what is required by law), or (3) adopt a censure 
resolution, revoke seniority, and/or restrict payment of expenses such as for 
official travel.  Any action taken by the Council is final and is not subject to appeal 
or reconsideration.  
154 of 293

--- page 155 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
16
Chapter 7.
Meetings
1.
All Commission decisions must be taken at Commission meetings only after hearing the 
presentation, project applicants, and hearing all public comments/testimony, then only 
under Commission discussion with colleagues should Commission Members opinions be 
shared, and deliberations engaged in before making any decision or taking action.
2.
No business may be transacted by the commission at a regular or special meeting unless a 
quorum of the membership is present (50% plus one of those currently appointed).
3.
Commission Meeting Dates
A.
If at any time any regular meeting of the Commission falls on a holiday or if it is 
known that a quorum will not be available, the meeting may be rescheduled to the 
earliest convenient time.
B.
The Boards and Commissions shall adopt a schedule of quarterly or more frequent 
meetings on an annual basis, which become the regular meeting dates.
C.
Regular meeting dates may be amended with the approval of the Commission.
4.
Types of Meetings
A.
Regular Meetings are those identified in the adopted meeting schedule. Regular 
meetings are agendized and posted at least 72 hours in advance of the meeting. 
B.
Special Meetings are called at a non-regular meeting date and time. They are 
called by the Chair or Commission with a minimum of 24 hours’ notice, versus 72 
hours’ notice for regular meetings.
C.
Study Sessions are special meetings that are held for the purpose of providing 
information to the Commission, particularly on issues that are more complex or 
more time-consuming than matters typically scheduled on regular Commission 
meetings. At study sessions Commissioners may collectively provide direction to 
City staff, or to an applicant in the case of the Planning Commission. Typically, no 
action is taken at the study sessions, but direction may be given.
D.
Closed Sessions at the commission level would be very rare and would only occur 
at the direction of the City Attorney. The procedures for the conduct of the closed 
sessions shall be the same as those for open session meetings, except that the 
public, after allowance for public comment, will be excluded.
E.
Emergency Meetings are allowed per the Ralph M. Brown Act when an emergency 
situation involving matters upon which prompt action is necessary due to the 
disruption or threatened disruption of the public’s well-being. 
155 of 293

--- page 156 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
17
F.
Adjourned Meetings due to Power Outages 
G.F. In the event a quorum of thethat the location of meeting body loses electrical 
power or suffers an internet connection outage not corrected within 15 minutes, 
the meeting may be adjourned to a date certain. Any items noticed as public 
hearings will be continued to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the 
Commission. Any other agenda items the Commission has not taken action on will 
be placed on a future agenda.
5.
Voting
A motion, second, and a majority vote of the Commission shall be required for any formal 
action of Commission. If the meeting is virtual, or any member is teleconferencing in, the 
vote must be taken by roll call vote.
6.
The Chair, with the approval of a majority of the Commission, can change the order of 
hearing of items on the agenda. Staff may make suggestions on the order due to practical 
and logistical issues.
7.
Public Participation
A.
All members of the public are encouraged and invited to participate in the 
legislative process of the City’s Boards and Commissions, for example by 
submission of comments before the meeting or speaking in person, or virtually 
when offered, at the scheduled meeting.
B.
It is the intent of these rules to allow everyone to be heard without fear of cheers 
or jeers that may discourage public participation. For these reasons, these rules 
are taken seriously. Disruptive or unruly behavior can result in removal from the 
Commission meeting to the extent allowed by state law.  The presiding member of 
a legislative body may remove an individual for disrupting a meeting after the 
individual first receives a warning yet continues the disruptive behavior. The 
legislative body may also decide to clear the room if interruptions render the 
orderly conduct of the meeting unfeasible and order cannot be restored by the 
removal of disruptive individual(s) alone.
C.
Public meetings are considered a limited public forum in which the speaker must 
stay on-topic if speaking to a particular agenda item. If speaking during general 
public comment, they must address matters within the subject matter jurisdiction 
of the City. If speakers fail to follow these rules, they will be warned, and if they 
continue to disregard the rules, their opportunity to speak will be ended.
D.
The Chair may, at their discretion with commission concurrence, limit the amount 
of time allotted to speakers when needed, per the following time limits.
156 of 293

--- page 157 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
18
E.
Generally, time Limits for public comment are dependent on the number of 
speakers:
1.
Individual Speakers - 3 minutes 
a. between 1 -10: 3 minutes
b. between 11-20: 2 minutes
c.
over 21 speakers: 1 minute
2.
Organized group (in lieu of individual speakers) – up to five (5) minutes for 
a group presentation,, with as many speakers as fit can be accommodated 
within the time allowance. To qualify for a group presentation, all 
individuals associated with the presentation must be clearly identified and 
confirmed as in attendance at the meeting.
3.
Yielding of Time. To ensure that all persons have an ample opportunity to 
be heard, all speakers will be recognized for the same amount of time. No 
speaker will be allowed to yield all or part of their time to another, and no 
speaker will be credited with time requested but not used by another.
4.
The Chair shall manage public comments such that no individual speaker is 
allotted a disproportionate amount of time. 
F.
In-person members of the public are invited to speak at the lectern microphone, 
whenever available, to ensure all attendees can hear and so that the recording can 
be captured.
F.G. Presentation Materials – Videos, slide shows, and other visual materials may be 
used during public comment or group presentations, provided they do not exceed 
the allotted speaking time. Any content still in progress when the time expires will 
be stopped. All presentation materials must be submitted for review – both for 
technical compatibility and relevance to subject matter or city business – no later 
than one (1) business day before the meeting. 
G.H. Individuals who wish to speak in-person should submit a speaker card to the 
commission’s Staff Admin for in-person meetings. For remote meetings conducted 
virtually, the raise the hand feature is used and managed by the Staff Admin. The 
Staff Admin will announce the last opportunity to submit forms or raise hands and 
announce when the time has closed for public comment on any particular item.
H.I.
Commissioners should be careful to not engage in back-and-forth questions or 
discussion with public speakers. If a member of the public raises a question, the 
157 of 293

--- page 158 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
19
Chair should invite staff (or an applicant before the Planning Commission) to respond to 
any questions raised at the end of the public comment period.
8.
Agendized Discussion Items (Public Hearings, New Business, Old Business)
A.
Staff / applicant presentation
B.
Open public hearing (or public comment section) for testimony
C.
Close public hearing (or public comment section)
D.
Response by staff to public questions/concerns (or by an applicant before the 
Planning Commission), if warranted
E.
Council questions to applicant and/or staff.
F.
Commission discussion and deliberation.
G.
Commission votes.
9.
Appeals
A.
Appeals are public hearings and will follow the order stated above with the 
following time allocations:
1.
Appellant – 15 minutes
2.
Applicant (if not the Appellant) – 15 minutes
3.
Individual Speakers – as outlined in Section 7(E)1 above.
4.
Rebuttal (Applies to Appellant and Applicant) – 5 minutes each.
5.
Clarification (Staff may offer explanation or clarification for the testimony) 
6.
If the appellant is also the applicant, only one 15-minute presentation is 
allowed. 
B.
Any person that addressed the Commission during one of the fifteen-minute 
periods may not speak again during the public comment period for individual 
speakers on the appeal. 
10.
Items Considered after 11:00 p.m.
11.
At 11 pm, in order to ensure effective discourse on an item, the Commission will 
determine with a majority vote on whether to continue with an item or take up any 
unheard items.
158 of 293

--- page 159 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
20
12.
Action Minutes
A.
The City Council and all of its Boards and Commissions shall use Action Minutes to 
record the decisions of the body.
B.
Action Minutes contain very little, if any, narrative content and do not capture 
details of public comments, or Commissioner comments, questions, and opinions. 
The staff is responsible for producing the minutes. Commissioners may request 
correction only of factual errors when presented with the draft minutes. No 
supplemental materials may be appended to minutes. 
C.
Motions and votes are shown in the record, whenever applicable.
D.
Media (audio/video) recordings will be used to provide a verbatim record of 
meetings and are kept as identified in the City’s Records Retention Schedule.
13.
Conflict of Interest
A.
The Political Reform Act (PRA), implemented and enforced by the Fair Political 
Practices Commission (FPPC), controls financial conflicts of interest. 
B.
The other applicable law is Government Code §1090, which applies only to City 
contracts in which a public official has a financial interest.
C.
Whenever it appears to a Commissioner that they may have a prohibited financial 
interest in any City contract, or an item that may be presented to the Commission, 
the Commissioner should consult with the City Attorney at the earliest opportunity 
for advice on whether a disqualifying conflict of interest exists. 
D.
If the City Attorney is consulted on such a matter, the City Attorney shall provide 
their advice in writing, and shall provide a copy of their opinion to the 
Commission, the City Council, the City Manager, the affiliated Department Head, 
and the Staff Liaison.
E.
With full consideration of the City Attorney’s advice, it is up to each individual 
Council Member to decide for themselves whether there is a conflict of interest.
F.
A member shall not vote upon or participate in any matter on which they have a 
conflict of interest.
G.
A member shall openly state the reason for their conflict of interest.
H.
A member who is disqualified by a conflict of interest shall recuse themselves from 
the dais and leave the room unless it is during the Consent Calendar
159 of 293

--- page 160 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
21
Chapter 8.
Meeting Agendas
1.
Agenda Order
Commission agendas will be prepared by the Staff Liaison to the commission and 
presented to the Commission in the order described below, except where the Staff Liaison 
determines that a different order is appropriate under the circumstances.
A.
Opening
1.
Pledge of Allegiance
2.
Roll Call
B.
Consent Calendar
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Commission 
to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If discussion is 
desired, that item may be removed by a Commission member and considered 
separately. Members of the public may speak to any Consent Calendar item 
without the item being pulled. 
C.
Public Comment
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the 
agenda may address the Commission at this time. State law prevents Commissions 
from taking action on any matter not on the agenda. Comments may be referred 
to staff for follow-up. Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, 
an opportunity for additional public comment will be provided later in the agenda, 
if needed. Timing is per Chapter 7(E)1 of these Rules.
D.
Public Hearing
Duly noticed hearings as mandated by local, state, or federal law, providing an 
opportunity for public review and comment of a proposed action by the 
Commission.
E.
Old Business
Non-routine items that have been presented before that require further oral 
presentation and/or discussion before action is taken.
F.
New Business
Non-routine items requiring an oral presentation and discussion before action is 
taken.
160 of 293

--- page 161 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
22
G.
Reports and Announcements
Commissioners provide an update on any meetings they attended in their 
commissioner role and Commissioners may make individual requests to schedule 
future items for consideration. Commissioners should notify the Staff Liaison in 
advance if they intend to make such a request. A majority vote of the Commission 
is required to place a request on a future agenda.  
H.
Additional Public Comment (if needed)
I.
Adjourn
2.
Agenda Item Submission
A.
The Staff Liaison coordinates all agenda items for consideration on a given agenda. 
In order to ensure that each item for discussion has been thoroughly analyzed in 
advance, an Agenda Report shall be prepared.  
1.
The preparation of Agenda Reports applies to all Boards and Commissions 
in order to ensure:
a.
The Board or Commission has all the information needed to make a 
well-informed decision; and 
b.
Any action is fully transparent to the public. 
2.
Agenda Reports shall be part of the public agenda packet issued prior to 
the meeting. Copies of the agenda, Agenda Reports and supporting 
materials shall be made available to the public at the meeting.
B.
A Commissioner may request an item be considered on a future agenda and, upon 
a majority vote of the Commission, staff will prepare an Agenda Report and 
agendize the item for a future meeting. Before the vote, staff will provide 
information, if available, on how much staff time would be required to produce 
the Agenda Report.
C.
Members of the Public 
1.
A member of the public may request Commission action in the following 
ways:
a.
Write a letter or email to the Commission. 
b.
Speak during the Public Comment period at a Board / Commission 
meeting.
161 of 293

--- page 162 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
23
2.
The first response is for the staff liaison to address concerns raised directly 
outside the meeting regarding the issue. 
3.
If a majority of the Commission agrees, the item will be agendized at a 
future meeting.
162 of 293

--- page 163 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
24
Chapter 9.
Financial Matters
1.
All Commissioners serve as volunteers without compensation or a stipend.
2.
Commissioner Expense Reimbursement Policy
It is rare that a Commissioner would need reimbursement, but in the event that they do, 
the following policy shall apply:
A.
Authorized Expenses
1.
City funds, equipment, supplies, titles, and staff time must only be used for 
authorized city business. 
2.
Expenses incurred while attending educational seminars designed to 
improve officials’ skill and information levels are permitted with pre-
approval from the affiliated Department Head.
3.
All other expenses require prior approval by the City Council.
4.
The City will not reimburse the following expenses:
a.
The personal portion of any trip.
b.
Political contributions or events.
c.
Family expenses, including partner’s expenses when accompanying 
official on agency-related business.
d.
Entertainment expenses, such as movies, sporting events, or 
cultural events.
e.
Non-mileage personal automobile expenses, including repairs, 
citations, insurance or gasoline.
B.
Cost Control
To conserve City resources and keep expenses within community standards for 
public officials, expenditures should adhere to the following guidelines. If expenses 
are incurred that exceed these guidelines, the cost borne or reimbursed by the 
City will be limited to the costs that fall within these guidelines.
1.
Airfare
Airfares that are equal to or less than those available through the League of 
California Cities, the California State Association of Counties and the State 
163 of 293

--- page 164 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
25
of California are presumed to be the most economical and reasonable for 
purposes of reimbursement under this policy. If no discounted airfare is 
available through these entities, then the most reasonable and economical 
airfare possible.
2.
Airport Parking
Long-term parking must be used for travel exceeding 24 hours.
3.
Automobile
Mileage shall be reimbursed at IRS rates presently in effect (see 
www.irs.gov). These rates are designed to compensate the driver for 
gasoline, insurance, maintenance, and other expenses. In addition, drivers 
may be reimbursed for bridge and road tolls. For rental vehicles, only 
receipted fuel expenses will be reimbursed.
4.
Car Rental
Rental rates that are equal or less than those available through the State of 
California’s website Car Rental Resources for State Travel shall be 
considered the most economical and reasonable for purposes of 
reimbursement under this policy.
5.
Conferences/Meetings
If such lodging is in connection with a conference, lodging expenses must 
not exceed the group rate published by the conference sponsor for the 
meeting in question if such rates are available at the time of booking. If the 
group rate is not available, rates that are equal to or less than the group 
rate at the host hotel are presumed to be reasonable and reimbursable for 
purposes of this policy.
6.
Internet
Officials will be reimbursed for Internet access connection and/or usage 
fees away from home, if Internet access is necessary for City business.
7.
Lodging
Commissioners are expected to select the most cost-effective and logical 
lodging available, including utilizing the lodging at the conference/training 
site, if available. If there is not specific lodging associated with the official 
City business, the City shall pay for actual lodging expenses up to the 
United States General Services Administration (GSA) maximum rate 
allowed by location (http://www.gsa.gov/portal/content/104877). This 
164 of 293

--- page 165 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
26
maximum applies to the room rate only and does not include any taxes or 
fees. Government rates for lodging are often available and should be 
sought. The City will pay only for standard single rooms, including taxes 
and fees, for individual Council members, and any additional nonbusiness 
expenses incurred will be paid by the Council member.
8.
Meals
The City will pay for a Commissioner’s meals during authorized, required 
travel up to the per diem amount (Per Diem Rates | GSA). If meals are 
included in the cost of a conference or training, the City will not pay for a 
meal that a Commissioner elects to purchase from another source. Unlike 
lodging, using the per diem methodology for meals that is limited to the 
GSA amount eliminates the need for employees to submit receipts. Thus, 
the Commissioner only needs to report the per diem amounts in the 
expense report, but not the actual receipts. This only applies to meals, as 
all other travel expenses require a receipt to substantiate the purchase. 
When the meal function is an organized event, the official shall be 
reimbursed the amount being charged by the event organizer for the meal. 
The City will not pay for alcohol/personal bar expenses.
9.
Taxis/Shuttles
Taxis or shuttle fares may be reimbursed, including a 15 percent gratuity 
per fare, when the cost of such fares is equal or less than the cost of car 
rentals, gasoline, and parking combined, or when such transportation is 
necessary for time-efficiency.
10.
Telephone/Fax/Cellular
Officials will be reimbursed for actual telephone and fax expenses incurred 
on City business. Telephone bills should identify which calls were made on 
City business.
11.
Transportation
Officials traveling on City business shall use the most economical mode and 
class of transportation reasonably consistent with scheduling needs and 
cargo space requirements, using the most direct, time-efficient route. 
Government and group rates must be used when available.
165 of 293

--- page 166 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
27
C.
Expense Reports
1.
Expense reimbursement requests must be submitted on an expense report 
form provided by the City. Reports must document how the expenditure 
met the requirements of this policy.
2.
Expense reports must be submitted within 30 days of an expense being 
incurred; and must be accompanied by receipts documenting each 
expense. 
3.
Expense reports are a public record.
D.
Audits of Expenses
All expenses are subject to verification that they comply with this policy.
E.
Reports on Meetings
Each official shall briefly give an oral report on any Brown Act meetings they 
attended for which they receive expense reimbursement at their next City Council, 
Board, or Commission meeting.
F.
Violation of this Policy
Under state law, use of public resources or falsifying expense reports in violation 
of this policy may result in any or all of the following: 1) loss of reimbursement 
privileges, 2) a demand for restitution to the City, 3) the agency’s reporting the 
expenses as income to the official to state and federal tax authorities, 4) civil 
penalties of up to $1,000 per day and three times the value of the resources used, 
and 5) prosecution for misuse of public resources.
166 of 293

--- page 167 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
28
Chapter 10.
Communication
1.
All communications are public records. 
All letters, memoranda, email, texts and other platform writing communications involving 
members of boards, commissions, committees and task forces, the subject of which relate 
to the conduct of government or the performance of any governmental function, with a 
few exceptions as outlined in the Public Records Act, are public records. 
2.
The City Council, in adopting this policy, does not waive attorney-client privilege or any 
other privilege associated with a closed session authorized under the Ralph M. Brown Act. 
3.
Ralph M. Brown Act
Each Commissioner should be mindful of all the requirements of the Brown Act in 
communicating with each other.
4.
Correspondence
A.
After the Commission has taken a position on an issue, official correspondence 
should reflect this position. While Commissioners who may disagree with a 
position are free to prepare correspondence on such issues as private citizens, City 
letterhead, official Board or Commission title, and staff support should not be 
utilized.
B.
City letterhead, logo, insignia and brand, as well as, staff support cannot be 
utilized for personal or political purposes.
C.
Generally, correspondence relating to a specific Commission agenda item shall be 
distributed with the agenda report; correspondence received after the publication 
of agenda packet will be compiled and distributed to the Commission prior to the 
meeting (known as a Dais packet). This additional correspondence is appended to 
the Agenda Report as public comment on the public meeting portal and in the 
records repository permanent record. Any further correspondence received 
between posting of the Dais packet and until the end of when the item is heard, 
will also be appended to the Agenda report as supplemental correspondence.
5.
Electronic Communication Record Retention
A.
Commissioners are issued City of San Mateo email addresses and are required to 
use this email for all commission related communication. The City email may not 
be forwarded to a personal email. 
B.
All emails sent and received through the City server are saved for at least three 
years on the City’s network and are subject to the Public Records Act.
167 of 293

--- page 168 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
29
C.
Communication on social media sites are saved for at least two years.
D.
Text messages sent on any City-provided device are saved for at least two years.
6.
Social Media Use as a Commission Member
Social media are internet-based platforms that allow for interactive communication and 
engagement with the public. For example, these may include (without limitation): 
Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube, TikTok, Snapchat, Nextdoor, blogs, etc.
The City’s image as a professional organization is critical to maintaining the respect of the 
public, and members should use discretion when posting or communicating on social 
media. If Commission Members choose to maintain and use personal social media 
accounts to conduct City business, they must follow current federal and state regulations, 
as well as Council and City policies.
A.
Brown Act:  Social media postings may turn into an interactive dialogue. The 
Brown Act has expanded to provide guidance on elected officials’ use of media 
platforms that are free of charge and open and accessible to the public.
1.
Permitted Uses: You may answer questions, provide information to the 
public and solicit information from the public about city business; share a 
City post to your Council Member site; and tag other elected officials in a 
post.
2.
Prohibited Uses: A majority of the members may not use social media to 
discuss agency business and a member may not respond directly to any 
posting by another member regarding agency business including no ‘likes’ 
‘thumbs up’, ‘emojis’ or other symbols.
B.
First Amendment. Commissioners’ social media platforms can become public 
forums subject to First Amendment requirements.  If a social media platform is 1) 
used for City business and 2) has interactive features that are accessible to the 
public without limitation, it is a public forum.  The City’s Social Media Policy 
contains rules for public participation and addresses what will constitute 
unacceptable content.  In general, officials may not block a member of the public 
from their social media sites if those sites have become public forums.  If 
unacceptable content appears on a site that has become a public forum, please 
consult with City staff.
C.
Public Records: Members are prohibited from deleting social media posts and 
related comments regarding any City-related matters to avoid violating the 
California Public Records Act. Social media is subject to the City’s record retention 
schedule.
168 of 293

--- page 169 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
30
D.
Best practices: Officials should be honest and accurate when posting information 
or news, especially when communicating during a crisis or emergency. Any 
mistakes, misstatements and/or factual errors must be corrected quickly upon 
discovery. News of citywide importance should first be announced by the official 
City-affiliated accounts then can be reshared by Commissioners. Unless the 
member has been designated to serve as a spokesperson, members should never 
represent themselves as a spokesperson for the entire Commission or City. 
Members should be mindful of recognizing that accomplishments of the City or 
Commission are achieved by collective action of the entire body or organization, 
not by any individual commissioner.
E.
Quasi-Judicial Capacity:  see Chapter 6 (Commissioner Conduct) for rules 
addressing the use of social media when Commissioners are acting in a quasi-
judicial capacity.  
7.
Written Communications for Commission Meetings on Agenda Items
A.
The deadline for the receipt of written communications for inclusion in the agenda 
packet is up to 4:00 pm one week before the Commission meeting. This is to allow 
for adequate staff review and analysis, and to ensure public access to information; 
on all plans, correspondence, and other documents being heard by the 
Commission. Contact the Commission’s Staff Liaison or Staff Admin for specifics.
B.
To be included in the addendum to the packet, items may be received up until 4 
pm the day of the scheduled meeting. 
C.
Materials distributed to Commissioners during the meeting shall be available for 
viewing by the public during the meeting if the materials were prepared by the 
City or a Commissioner, or at the conclusion of the meeting if prepared by another 
person.
D.
If a Commissioner receives materials regarding an agenda item, they shall forward 
it the Staff Liaison as soon as possible.
8.
Commission - Staff Relations
A.
Commissioners may make requests of City staff through their Department Head 
for limited research and information. Requests that will require significant staff 
time, as determined by the Staff Liaison, may be referred to the full Commission 
and only pursued if supported by a majority of the Commission.  All requests for 
research and information shall be made through the Staff Liaison.
B.
Commissioners are encouraged to submit their questions on agenda items to the 
Staff Liaison as far in advance of the meeting as possible so that staff can be 
prepared to respond at the Commission meeting. 
169 of 293

--- page 170 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
31
C.
Clarifications or technical questions will be answered before the meeting 
whenever possible.
D.
Questions and all staff-prepared responses will be forwarded to all 
Commissioners.
9.
Speaking for “the City”
Similar to written correspondence, when Commissioners are requested to speak to 
groups or are asked the Commission’s position on an issue, the response should reflect 
the position of the Commission as a whole. Of course, a member may clarify their vote on 
a matter by stating, for example, “While I voted against X, the Commission voted in 
support of it.” When representing the City at meetings or other venues, it is important 
that those in attendance gain an understanding of the Commission’s position rather than 
that of an individual member.  
10.
Speaking as an Individual
On occasion, Commissioners may wish to transmit correspondence on an issue upon 
which the Commission has yet to take a position or about an issue for which the 
Commission has no position. In these circumstances, members should clearly indicate in 
their communications that they are not speaking for the Commission or the City as a 
whole, but for themselves as an individual.  
170 of 293

--- page 171 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
32
Chapter 11.
Boards and Commissions Selection 
Process
1.
Refer to the San Mateo City Charter Article VI on Boards and Commissions.
2.
Reappointments, Vacancies and Appointments
A.
The City Clerk’s Office manages the Boards and Commissions (hereafter referred 
to as “Commission” for ease of reference) application process. The process begins 
with the Clerk contacting members who are eligible for appointment to a second 
term and finding out their interest in reappointment.  
B.
The City Clerk then shares the results with each appointment subcommittee and 
receives direction on the need to schedule an appointment subcommittee meeting 
to provide direction on reappointments. The default is that currently serving 
Commissioners will each be interviewed for reappointment. However, if it is 
determined that a commissioner’s performance is outstanding, or that other 
factors necessitate keeping them in their role, then an automatic reappointment 
can occur with a majority vote or majority consensus of the City Council. Any 
commission seat selected for re-interview means the seat will be processed as part 
of the full annual recruitment and the currently sitting commissioner may be 
interviewed along with other applicants. Commission recruitment occurs annually 
in the months of April and May and is managed by the City Clerk’s Office. For these 
routine vacancies, the announcement is made approximately two months prior to 
the date on which the vacancy is to occur.
C.
The City Clerk recruits for all open seats utilizing multiple avenues including 
advertising, the website, social media and networking lists to present qualified 
candidates to the Council for consideration.
D.
The interview and selection of candidates is an open process.
E.
The City Clerk receives the applications (ideally a minimum of three applications is 
sought for each vacant seat) and arranges for the appropriate sub-committee, in a 
noticed special meeting, to interview applicants and form their recommendation.
F.
Commissioners, Board and committee members (hereafter referred to as 
“Commissioners” for ease of reference) are appointed by a majority vote of the 
City Council and serve staggered terms.
G.
A City Council Appointment Subcommittee conducts the candidate interviews and 
makes a recommendation for Council approval. The Council will receive the full list 
of candidates for each opening. 
171 of 293

--- page 172 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
33
H.
The Appointment Subcommittee recommendations for new and reappointed 
Commissioners are confirmed by Council under the Consent Calendar at regular 
Council meetings. A staff report summarizing the Subcommittees’ 
recommendations will be provided to the full City Council and will include the list 
of all candidates reviewed by the subcommittee. The Council may adopt the 
recommendations as presented or pull the item for further discussion. A majority 
vote of the Council approves the appointees.
I.
The designated Appointment Subcommittee may establish an eligibility list for up 
to two applicants that will remain in effect for a six-month period.
J.
Unscheduled Vacancies
1.
Subject to the Maddy Act (California Government Code § 54970), if an 
unscheduled vacancy occurs on a commission, the Council may either 
appoint from the pool of applicants on file (the eligibility list if there is one 
available) or open up the position to new applications where the above 
process is followed.
2.
For such non-routine vacancies, the announcement for new applications is 
made as soon as possible in order to maintain viable memberships on the 
various boards and commissions.
3.
All appointments occur in an open public meeting.
K.
Youth Activities Council (YAC) Selection Process
The YAC is not appointed directly by the City Council but through an application 
method administered by Parks and Recreation. High school students from all of 
the City’s public high schools, as well as Junipero Serra High School and Nueva 
Upper School, are recruited for potential participation starting in the late spring of 
each year.
172 of 293

--- page 173 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
34
Chapter 12.
References
1.
San Mateo City Charter, §2.03, 2.04, 2.12, Article VI
2.
Ralph M. Brown Act (California Government Code, § 54950 et seq.)
3.
California Government Code, § 53234 et seq.
4.
San Mateo Municipal Code
5.
California Public Records Act (California Government Code, § 6250 et seq.)
6.
AB 1234 California Government Code, § 53232.3
7.
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order
Prior Revisions:  January 17, 2017, April 17, 2017, April 16, 2018, May 21, 2018, May 3, 2021, 
February 22, 2022, October 17, 2022, April 1, 2024, July 15, 2024, and June 16, 2025.
173 of 293

--- page 174 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4679
File ID: 25-10175
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
August 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Marina Lagoon Spot Dredging Project — Bid Rejection
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to reject the sole bid received for the Marina Lagoon Spot Dredging Project and authorize the Public 
Works Director to negotiate a contract directly with Power Engineering Construction Company.
BACKGROUND:
The Marina Lagoon Spot Dredging Project (Project) is part of the City's plan to perform maintenance on the City's most 
prominent flood control and recreational facility. Since its construction in 1964, the Marina Lagoon has accumulated more 
than 314,190 cubic yards of shoaling (sediment deposition), which has reduced its utility as a flood control and 
recreational facility. While the City is exploring alternatives to perform a medium- to large-scale dredging project to 
address nearly 60 years of shoaling, this current project comprises targeted dredging up to 2,000 cubic yards from areas 
where stream and stormwater runoff from where Borel Creek (19th Avenue Channel) and Leslie Creek (16th Avenue 
Channel) flow into Marina Lagoon. Dredging near the outfall of Laurel Creek was originally part of the proposed project but 
was later deferred for the medium- to large-scale project.
On January 4, 2024, the City issued a Request for Proposals for professional design and professional consultant services for 
the Project. The City awarded the project to Moffatt & Nichol (M&N) on April 1, 2024. M&N subsequently prepared bid 
documents with an Engineer's Estimate of $1,150,000 for the Project. Due to wet weather work window constraints, staff 
proceeded to advertise the project prior to receiving final approval by the Dredged Material Management Office (DMMO).
In accordance with Municipal Code Section 3.60.030, a competitive public process was used to obtain bids for the Project. 
A Notice Inviting Sealed Bids was issued to advertise the Project on June 3, 2025. On the June 25, 2025 bid opening date, 
one (1) bid was received from Power Engineering Construction Company with a bid amount of $1,509,500, which 
exceeded the Engineer’s Estimate by $359,500. 
Pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.040(a)(4), the City Council, at its discretion, may reject all bids 
received and authorize the direct negotiation of a contract for the Project if the Project is not within budget, do the work 
through City employees, or terminate the Project or purchase. Given that bids are greater than the established budget for 
the Project, staff recommends for City Council to reject all bids and authorize the Director of Public Works to directly 
negotiate a potential contract with Power Engineering Construction Company under which cost reductions may be 
achieved. If these direct negotiations are successful, staff will return to Council for approval of a contract at a future date.  
If negotiations are not successful, staff will either rebid the Project at a later date or modify the scope.
174 of 293

--- page 175 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for the rejection of bids. Funding for this work is budgeted in the Wet Weather Preparation 
Activities (46c006) project. The lowest bid of $1,509,500 exceeds the engineer’s estimate by $359,500, which would 
exceed the project's available budget. By rejecting all bids, if authorized to do so, staff can potentially negotiate a more 
favorable contract with the lowest bidder.  
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Project will be performed pursuant to the terms and conditions of an existing permit with the environmental 
regulatory agencies for the Marina Lagoon including the San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board. On July 
7, 2021, the City filed a Notice of Exemption with the Office of Planning and Research and the County Clerk-Recorder for 
the County of San Mateo (SCH No. 2021070131) for proposed maintenance activities for the Marina Lagoon, effective from 
2022 through 2026.  These maintenance activities are categorically exempt as existing facilities as they involve negligible or 
no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
James Yang, Senior Engineer
jyang@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7575
175 of 293

--- page 176 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
REJECTING ALL BIDS FOR THE MARINA LAGOON SPOT DREDGING PROJECT AND AUTHORIZING THE DIRECTOR 
OF PUBLIC WORKS TO DIRECTLY NEGOTIATE A CONTRACT WITH THE SOLE BIDDER
WHEREAS, the Marina Lagoon Spot Dredging Project (Project) includes the targeted dredging of up to 
2,000 cubic yards from areas where stream and stormwater runoff from where Borel Creek (19th Avenue 
Channel) and Leslie Creek (16th Avenue Channel) flow into Marina Lagoon; and 
WHERAS, work began on the design phase Project in April 2024; and
WHEREAS, the City advertised the Project on June 3, 2025 in accordance with San Mateo Municipal 
Code (SMMC) Chapter 3.60; and
WHEREAS, four contractors attended the mandatory pre-bid walk on June 12, 2025; and
WHEREAS, Power Engineering Construction Co. (Power Engineering) submitted the sole bid on June 25, 
2025 in the amount of $1,509,500; and
WHEREAS, Power Engineering’s bid is 31 percent above the engineer’s estimate of $1,150,000; and
WHEREAS, future market conditions and the associated impacts and/or benefits are uncertain; and
WHEREAS, SMMC Section 3.60.040(a)(4) authorizes the City Council to, at its discretion, reject all bids 
received, negotiate a contract for the work or supplies if the project is not within budget, do the work through 
City employees, or terminate the project or purchase; and
WHEREAS, given the uncertainty of future price escalations, there may be an opportunity to have value 
engineering discussions with Power Engineering now to identify potential savings; and
WHEREAS, staff recommends rejecting all bids and negotiating a contract directly with Power 
Engineering for the Marina Lagoon Spot Dredging Project in an effort to reduce Project costs and account for the 
potential future changes in economic conditions; and
WHEREAS, if these negotiations are successful, staff will return to Council for approval of a modified 
contract with Power Engineering at a future date; but if negotiations are not successful, staff will either rebid the 
Project at a later date or modify the scope.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This Project will be performed pursuant to the terms and conditions of an existing permit with the 
environmental regulatory agencies for the Marina Lagoon including the San Francisco Bay Regional 
Water Quality Control Board. On July 7, 2021, the City filed a Notice of Exemption with the Office of 
Planning and Research and the County Clerk-Recorder for the County of San Mateo (SCH No. 
2021070131) for proposed maintenance activities for the Marina Lagoon, effective from 2022 
through 2026.  These maintenance activities are categorically exempt as existing facilities as they 
involve negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
2.
In accordance with the provisions of San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.040(a)(4), all bids for 
the Marina Lagoon Spot Dredging Project are rejected.
176 of 293

--- page 177 ---
3.
The Director of Public Works is authorized to directly negotiate a contract with Power Engineering 
Construction Co., who was the sole bidder on the Project.
177 of 293

--- page 178 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4662
File ID: 25-10187
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
August 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Gateway Park Pedestrian Bridge Replacement Project — Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with E.E. Gilbert Construction, Inc. for the Gateway Park Pedestrian Bridge Replacement Project in 
the amount of $478,112.67; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $100,000; and authorize the Public Works 
Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders as allowed by the contract 
documents and within the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The Gateway Park Pedestrian Bridge, located in the City’s Gateway Park was constructed in 1990 and is 35 years old. 
Gateway Park serves the downtown and North Central communities as it is located at the corner of 2nd Avenue and S. 
Grant Street. The pedestrian bridge consists of steel tube trusses, spanning over 75 feet over San Mateo Creek with 
concrete footings on either end. Preliminary inspections and evaluation of the steel superstructure of the bridge have 
indicated signs of deterioration and corrosion, further demonstrating that the bridge requires replacement. To address 
this, City staff developed the Gateway Park Pedestrian Bridge Replacement Project (Project) to replace the bridge 
structure and address ADA compliance issues at the bridge approaches.
 
The City entered into an Agreement with Biggs Cardosa Associates, Inc. (BCA) in March 2024 to design the Project and the 
design was completed in January 2025.
The Project was originally advertised to bid in early 2025. However, due to schedule constraints based on bridge 
manufacturing times and the project’s California Fish and Wildlife (CDFW) Streambed Alteration Agreement, City Council 
rejected all bids on April 7, 2025. The City Council also authorized the Public Works Department to initiate a second Notice 
Inviting Bids.
The Project was re-advertised on June 10, 2025. The Engineer’s estimate was $480,000. On July 08, 2025, the bid opening 
date, three bids were received. The bids received are listed below in order of increasing bid amount.
Contractor
Total Bid Amount
E.E Gilbert Construction, Inc.
$478,112.67
Valentine Corporation
$518,369.00
GSW Construction, Inc.
$532,490.00
Staff reviewed the lowest bid submitted by E.E. Gilbert Construction, Inc., and determined that it is the lowest responsive, 
responsible bidder. Staff recommends City Council award the agreement to E.E. Gilbert Construction, Inc. In addition, staff 
recommends a contingency of $100,000 to include a standard 15 percent contingency to cover  potential unforeseen site 
178 of 293

--- page 179 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
conditions and caution that will need to be exercised due to the project’s proximity to a creek and extra funds to 
investigate the possibility of galvanizing the bridge to extend its life for another 30+ years beyond that of just painting the 
bridge. 
Construction is anticipated to start Spring 2026, and must be completed by October 31, 2026, due to the California 
Department of Fish and Wildlife in-water work period restrictions.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the Gateway Park Pedestrian Bridge Replacement (46F024) project to award this 
agreement and the contingency reserve.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA review, because it consists of the replacement or reconstruction where the 
new bridge will be located on the same site as the structure replaced and will have substantially the same purpose and 
capacity as the structure replaced. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15302.) 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Stephanie Piñon, Senior Engineer
spinon@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7315
Karen Cornejo, Assistant Engineer
kcornejo@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7576
179 of 293

--- page 180 ---
Construction Contract
Page 1 of 9
Rev 1/24
AGREEMENT WITH E.E. GILBERT CONSTRUCTION, INC.,
FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT
FOR
GATEWAY PARK PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE REPLACEMENT
CITY PROJECT NO. 46F024
THIS AGREEMENT FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS (“Agreement”), made and entered into in the 
City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, by and between the CITY OF SAN 
MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, (hereinafter called 
"City") and E.E. GILBERT CONSTRUCTION, INC., a corporation, with offices at 155 Howe Road, 
Martinez CA 94553 (hereinafter called "Contractor"), entered into this day of ___________________.  
RECITALS:
(a) City has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize construction of the public work and 
improvements or other matters herein provided, and execution of this Agreement.
(b) A notice was duly published for bids for the contract for the improvement hereinafter 
described.
(c) After notice duly given, on the date hereof, the City awarded the contract for the construction 
of the improvements hereinafter described to Contractor.
IT IS AGREED, as follows:
1.
Scope of Work. Contractor shall perform the work according to the Contract Book entitled:
GATEWAY PARK PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE REPLACEMENT
CITY PROJECT NO. 46F024
2.
Contract Price. City shall pay, and the Contractor shall accept, the sum of four hundred seventy-
eight thousand, one hundred twelve dollars and sixty-seven cents ($478,112.67) in full payment 
for the work set forth above.
Said price is determined by the prices contained in Contractor's bid, and shall be paid as described 
in the Contract Book. In the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a 
reduction of those set forth in Contractor's bid and the specifications herein, such work and 
materials will be paid for as described in the Contract Book.
3.
The Contract Documents. The complete contract consists of the following documents: this 
Agreement; the Notice Inviting Sealed Bids; the Accepted Bid Proposal; the Contract Book which 
includes the Special Provisions, Revised Standard Specifications dated April 15, 2022, and Contract 
Drawings, the State of California Standard Specifications 2018 Edition, the State of California 
Department of Transportation Standard Plans, 2018 Edition, the Faithful Performance Bond, and 
the Labor and Material Bond (hereinafter referred to as the “contract documents”).
180 of 293

--- page 181 ---
Construction Contract
Page 2 of 9
Rev 1/24
All rights and obligations of City and Contractor are fully set forth and described in the contract 
documents.  The contract documents constitute the entire contract between the parties hereto 
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, fully supersede any and all prior understandings, 
representations, warranties and agreements between the parties hereto, or any of them, 
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and may be modified only by written agreement signed 
by all of the parties hereto.
All of the above-named documents are complementary and are intended to operate in harmony, 
so that any work called for in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed 
the same as if mentioned in all said documents. In the event of any variation or discrepancy 
between any portion of this Agreement and any portion of the contract documents, this 
Agreement shall prevail. The precedence of the remaining contract documents will be as specified 
in the Contract Book.
4.
Schedule. All work shall be performed in accordance with the schedule provided pursuant to the 
Contract Book.
5.
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, City shall 
immediately give written notice thereof to Contractor and Contractor's sureties, and the sureties 
shall have the right to take over and perform the Agreement, provided, however, that if the 
sureties, within 5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give City written notice 
of their intention to take over the performance thereof within 5 days after notice to City of such 
election, City may take over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by 
any other method it may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of Contractor, and 
the sureties shall be liable to City for any excess cost or damages occasioned City thereby; and, in 
such event, City may, without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing 
the work, such materials, appliances, plant and other property belonging to Contractor as may be 
on the site of the work and necessary therefor.
6.
Legal Work Day - Penalties for Violation. Eight hours of labor shall constitute a legal day's work. 
Contractor shall not require more than 8 hours labor in a day and 40 hours in a calendar week 
from any person employed by Contractor in the performance of such work unless such excess 
work is compensated for at not less than 1-1/2 times the basic rate of pay. Contractor shall forfeit 
as a penalty to City the sum of $25.00 for each laborer, workman or mechanic employed in the 
execution of this contract by Contractor, or by any subcontractor for each calendar day during 
which such laborer, workman or mechanic is required or permitted to labor more than 8 hours in 
any calendar day and 40 hours in any one calendar week in violation of the provisions of Sections 
1810 and 1816, inclusive, of the Labor Code of the State of California.
7.
Prevailing Wage Scale. The prevailing wage scale as determined by the Director of Industrial 
Relations of the State of California, in force on the day the bid was announced, will be the 
minimum paid to all craftsmen and laborers working on this project. Contractor shall also require 
any subcontractors who work or provide any services related to the project to pay all persons 
performing labor or rendering service under said subcontract or other arrangement at least the 
general prevailing rate of wages, determined as set forth herein for the respective crafts and 
employments, including such wages for holiday and overtime work. A copy of the correct 
determination will be posted at the job site. It is understood that it is the responsibility of 
181 of 293

--- page 182 ---
Construction Contract
Page 3 of 9
Rev 1/24
Contractor to determine the correct scale. Copies of the prevailing wage rates are on file at the 
City Clerk's office, however, errors or defects in the materials in the City Clerk's office will not 
excuse a bidder's failure to comply with the actual scale then in force. Contractor must submit 
certified payrolls to the Department of Industrial Relations in accordance with Labor Code Section 
1776.
Contractor agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal 
Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price 
Index escalator.
8.
Senate Bill 854 Compliance Required.  In accordance with Labor Code Sections 1725.5 and 1771.1, 
all contractors and subcontractors must be registered with the Department of Industrial Relations. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1771.4 the contractor must post job site notices as 
required by regulation and this project will be subject to compliance monitoring and enforcement 
by the Department of Industrial Relations.
9.
Insurance. The Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and five 
years thereafter the insurance as specified in Exhibit A of this Agreement.
10. Indemnity. Contractor agrees to hold harmless and indemnify City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and 
expense arising out of Contractor’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising 
out of City’s active negligence, sole negligence or willful misconduct.  Contractor agrees to defend 
City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The 
Contractor’s duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement.
11. Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs 
(by the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions 
of this Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the 
trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, 
appeals, or actions.  It is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other 
more than $5000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of 
this Agreement.
12. Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The 
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties 
shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, 
the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The 
mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in 
mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation 
182 of 293

--- page 183 ---
Construction Contract
Page 4 of 9
Rev 1/24
process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached 
by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
13. Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition to and not 
in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to City.
14. Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified mail, 
postage prepaid. 
a.
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed as follows:
Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
Notices required to be given to Contractor shall be addressed as appears in the signature 
block as shown on the Bidder's Statement.
15. Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes the 
plural and vice versa.
16. Governing Law and Venue. This Agreement, the contract documents, and the performance hereon 
shall be governed, interpreted, construed, and regulated by the laws of the State of California. The 
parties agree that any action related to this Agreement or the contract documents will be venued 
in the County of San Mateo.
17. Headings. The title and headings of the various sections of this Agreement and the contract 
documents are intended solely for convenience of reference and are not intended to explain, 
modify, or place any construction on any provisions.
18. No Partnership or Agency. Nothing in this Agreement nor the contract documents shall be deemed 
to constitute a partnership in law between City and Contractor, or any sub-contractor, to 
constitute either party as an agent of the other for any purpose; or to entitle either party to 
commit or bind the other in any manner unless expressly agreed upon in the contract documents.
19. Severability. If any part or provision of the contract documents is determined by any court to be 
illegal, invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the contract documents shall continue to be 
valid as to its other provisions and the remainder of the affected provision, unless it can be 
concluded from the circumstances that, in the absence of the provisions found to be null and void, 
the parties would not have entered into the contract documents. The parties shall use all 
reasonable efforts to replace any and all provisions or parts found to be null and void with 
provisions that are valid under the applicable law and come closest to their original intention.
183 of 293

--- page 184 ---
Construction Contract
Page 5 of 9
Rev 1/24
20. Waiver. None of the following shall operate as a waiver of any provision of the contract 
documents, or of any power herein reserved by the City, or any right to damages herein provided: 
1) inspection by the City or its authorized agents or representatives; 2) any order or certificate for 
payment, or any payment for, or acceptance of the whole or any part of the work by the City; 3) 
an extension of time; or 4) any position taken by the City or its authorized agents or 
representatives.
21. Warranty. Contractor warrants and guarantees that the materials and equipment provided shall 
be at least of the quality specified and new unless otherwise required or permitted by the contract 
documents, and, if no quality is specified, then the materials and equipment shall be of 
commercial grade, suitable for heavy public use in facilities of similar size and complexity, that the 
work performed hereunder will be free from defects, and that the work will conform to the 
requirements of the contract documents.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
184 of 293

--- page 185 ---
Construction Contract
Page 6 of 9
Rev 1/24
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and E.E. Gilbert Construction, Inc. have executed 
this Agreement the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Matt Fabry
Public Works Director
Date
Dustin Creson
Its Authorized Agent
President
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Linh Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
City of San Mateo
Attachments:
Exhibit A:
Insurance Requirements
185 of 293

--- page 186 ---
Construction Contract
Page 7 of 9
Rev 1/24
Exhibit A 
Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract, and for x years thereafter, 
insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise from or in 
connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the Contractor, his agents, 
representatives, employees, or subcontractors. 
MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 covering CGL 
on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property damage, bodily 
injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $5,000,000 per occurrence. If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this 
project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required 
occurrence limit.  
2. Automobile Liability:  Insurance Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), with 
limits no less than $5,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, 
and Employers’ Liability insurance with a limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease. 
4. Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) insurance utilizing an “All Risk” (Special Perils) coverage 
form, with limits equal to the completed value of the project and no coinsurance penalty 
provisions.
5. Surety Bonds as described below.
6. Contractors’ Pollution Legal Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and Omissions 
(if project involves environmental hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or 
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.
If the contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above, 
the Entity requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or higher limits maintained by 
the contractor. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance 
and coverage shall be available to the Entity.
Self-Insured Retentions 
Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the Entity. At the option of the Entity, 
either: the contractor shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions 
as respects the Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; or the Contractor shall provide 
a financial guarantee satisfactory to the Entity guaranteeing payment of losses and related 
investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. The policy language shall provide, or be 
endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be satisfied by either the named insured or 
Entity.
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
186 of 293

--- page 187 ---
Construction Contract
Page 8 of 9
Rev 1/24
1. The Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional 
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed 
by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection 
with such work or operations and automobiles owned, leased, hired, or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to 
the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10, 
CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
2. For any claims related to this project, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the Entity, its officers, 
officials, employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the Entity, 
its officers, officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance and 
shall not contribute with it. 
3. Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, 
except with notice to the Entity.
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) Insurance 
Contractor may submit evidence of Builder’s Risk insurance in the form of Course of Construction 
coverage. Such coverage shall name the Entity as a loss payee as their interest may appear.
If the project does not involve new or major reconstruction, at the option of the Entity, an Installation 
Floater may be acceptable. For such projects, a Property Installation Floater shall be obtained that 
provides for the improvement, remodel, modification, alteration, conversion or adjustment to existing 
buildings, structures, processes, machinery and equipment.  The Property Installation Floater shall 
provide property damage coverage for any building, structure, machinery or equipment damaged, 
impaired, broken, or destroyed during the performance of the Work, including during transit, 
installation, and testing at the Entity’s site.
Claims Made Policies – (If at all possible avoid and require occurrence type CGL policies)
If any coverage required is written on a claims-made coverage form: 
1. The retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the execution date of the 
contract or the beginning of contract work.
2. Insurance must be maintained and evidence of insurance must be provided for at least five (5) 
years after completion of contract work. 
3. If coverage is canceled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made policy form 
with a retroactive date prior to the contract effective, or start of work date, the Contractor must 
purchase extended reporting period coverage for a minimum of five (5) years after completion 
of contract work. 
4. A copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the Entity for review. 
5. If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification/remediation, the Contractors 
Pollution Liability policy shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos exclusions. If the services 
involve mold identification/remediation, the Contractors Pollution Liability policy shall not 
contain a mold exclusion, and the definition of Pollution shall include microbial matter, including 
mold. 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current A.M. 
Best rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the Entity. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any insurer of Contractor may acquire 
from Contractor by virtue of the payment of any loss. Contractor agrees to obtain any endorsement 
187 of 293

--- page 188 ---
Construction Contract
Page 9 of 9
Rev 1/24
that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The Workers’ Compensation policy shall be 
endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of the Entity for all work performed by the Contractor, 
its employees, agents and subcontractors. 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the Entity with original Certificates of Insurance including all required 
amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by 
this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL policy listing all policy 
endorsements to Entity before work begins. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to 
the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s obligation to provide them.  The Entity reserves the 
right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements, 
required by these specifications, at any time.   
Subcontractors 
Contractor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all the 
requirements stated herein, and Contractor shall ensure that Entity is an additional insured on insurance 
required from subcontractors. For CGL coverage subcontractors shall provide coverage with a form at 
least as broad as CG 20 38 04 13.
Surety Bonds 
Contractor shall provide the following Surety Bonds:
1. Bid bond
2. Performance bond
3. Payment bond
4. Maintenance bond
The Payment Bond and the Performance Bond shall be in a sum equal to the contract price. If the 
Performance Bond provides for a one-year warranty a separate Maintenance Bond is not necessary.  If 
the warranty period specified in the contract is for longer than one year a Maintenance Bond equal to 
10% of the contract price is required.  Bonds shall be duly executed by a responsible corporate surety, 
authorized to issue such bonds in the State of California and secured through an authorized agent with 
an office in California.
Special Risks or Circumstances
Entity reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of the risk, 
prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other circumstances.
188 of 293

--- page 189 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 26-4662
File ID: 25-9963
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
August 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
On-Call Public Works Plan Review Services — Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the professional consultant services agreement with CSG Consultants, Inc. for private 
development and right-of-way support services to increase the agreement amount by $200,000 for a revised total, not-to-
exceed amount of $600,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form 
presented.
BACKGROUND:
On November 6, 2023, the City Council approved an agreement with CSG Consultants, Inc. (CSG) for on-call Public Works 
plan review services for $400,000 for two years to address a significant increase in the number of planning applications 
and permits requiring Public Works staff review.
The volume of planning applications and building permits submitted to the City has increased in recent years necessitating 
the use of outside consulting services over the past five years to meet the Permit Streamlining Act statutory time limits for 
application reviews. With the recent adoption of Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040, the Housing Element and approval 
of Measure T, an influx of large redevelopment projects is anticipated, further increasing the demand for timely Public 
Works review services. 
 
City Council approved two optional one-year extensions to the original agreement which was set to expire on June 30, 
2025. Staff extended the CSG agreement by one year through Amendment No. 1. The current CSG agreement will expire 
on June 30, 2026. Costs associated with staff time and consultant services required to review and process applications and 
permits are paid with funds collected through planning application deposits and building permit fees. As such, all costs 
associated with CSG’s review of the applications are fully cost-recovered by the City. To ensure the City is providing cost-
effective services for residents and developers, staff reviews CSG’s hourly charges to project accounts to verify plan 
reviews are completed efficiently. Based on the historic level of effort and expenditures to date, the increase of $200,000 
to the contract amount is estimated to be sufficient to support the CSG staff to the end of the current agreement term on 
June 30, 2026. 
 
Based on the above, staff recommends approval of Amendment No. 2 (see Attachment 1) with CSG increasing the 
agreement amount by $200,000 for a total not to exceed amount of $600,000 in order to meet the City’s immediate level 
of service requirements for planning applications, building permits, and encroachment permits.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
The support services provided through this agreement will be funded by deposits collected from private development 
189 of 293

--- page 190 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
applications and permitting fees. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Approval of Amendment No. 2 is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that there is no 
possibility that approval of an amendment for plan review services may have a significant effect on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Amendment No. 2
STAFF CONTACT
Jason Hallare, Senior Engineer
jhallare@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7316
190 of 293

--- page 191 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 1 of 2
CAO Approved June 2024
AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO THE AGREEMENT
WITH CSG CONSULTANTS, INC. FOR
PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES FOR
ON-CALL PUBLIC WORKS REVIEW SUPPORT SERVICES
($400,000 [Original Amount], $0 [Amendment No. 1], $200,000 [Amendment No. 2])
This Amendment is entered into this day of _____________ by and between the CITY OF SAN 
MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California ("CITY"), and CSG 
CONSULTANTS, INC., a corporation ("CONSULTANT").
              WHEREAS, CITY and CONSULTANT entered into an Agreement for professional consultant 
services (“Agreement”) on November 17, 2023; and
WHEREAS, on May 27, 2025 Amendment No. 1 was executed, which extended the term of this 
Agreement to June 30, 2026; and
WHEREAS, CITY and CONSULTANT wish to amend the Agreement to increase the not-to-exceed 
amount by $200,000 for a new total Agreement amount of $600,000.
NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows:
1.
Section 5, “Payment”, of the Agreement is amended to read:
“Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of 
payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed. In 
consideration for the full performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees 
to pay CONSULTANT in an amount not to exceed $600,000.00, pursuant to rates stated 
in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference.”
2.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
191 of 293

--- page 192 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 2 of 2
CAO Approved June 2024
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and CSG CONSULTANTS, INC. have executed this 
Amendment No. 2 on _______________.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
Matthew Fabry
Director of Public Works
Date
Cyrus Kianpour
President
Date
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 
2) Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall 
sign below.
APPROVED AS TO FORM
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Linh P. Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Nourdin Khayata
Secretary
Date
192 of 293

--- page 193 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4675
File ID: 25-10227
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
August 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Los Prados, Kehoe Kelly & Arroyo Lift Stations Rehabilitation Project — Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Award an agreement to JMB Construction, Inc. for the Los Prados, Kehoe Kelly & Arroyo Lift Station Rehabilitation Project 
in an amount not to exceed $14,658,091.00; establish a contingency in the amount of $2,750,000.00; and authorize the 
Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the 
contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
The Clean Water Program (CWP) is improving the City of San Mateo’s sanitary sewer system to prevent sanitary sewer 
unauthorized discharge of sewage. In 2016, a Sewer Pump Station and Force Main Condition Assessment (Assessment) 
was completed by AECOM, building on a previous pump station capacity study to improve the City’s lift stations’ reliability. 
The Assessment proposed the East San Mateo Lift Stations Rehabilitation Project (Project) which addressed multiple lift 
stations, including the five highest priority lift stations from the Assessment: Kehoe Kelly, Laurie Meadows, and Los Prados 
Nos. 1, 2, and 3. This phase is titled Los Prados, Kehoe Kelly & Arroyo Lift Stations Rehabilitation Project to reflect specific 
lift stations that are included. 
On February 24, 2017, City Council awarded design of this project to Schaaf & Wheeler. During the design phase, the 
Project was split into two packages for efficient delivery. Package 1 included Laurie Meadows and Woodbridge (Package 
1), and Package 2 includes rehabilitation of the Los Prados area and Kehoe Kelly lift stations (Package 2). 
Package 1 included the abandonment of the Laurie Meadows lift station, the upgrade of the Woodbridge lift station, and 
the associated modifications to the surrounding sewers to redirect sewer flows. The construction contract was awarded to 
JMB Construction in 2019, and Package 1 was completed in 2020. 
Package 2 originally included the rehabilitation of the Los Prados area lift stations and the Kehoe Kelly lift station. In 2021, 
staff determined that the condition of the Arroyo lift station necessitated that it should be added to Package 2.  
Package 2 includes the Los Prados No. 1 lift station replacement and force main extension, the elimination of Los Prados 
No. 2 lift station, sewer main improvements between Los Prados No. 1 and No. 2 lift stations, Kehoe Kelly lift station 
replacement and force main extension, and the Arroyo lift station rehabilitation, along with associated modifications to 
the surrounding sewers at each lift station. 
The Arroyo lift station is located along Arroyo Court, West of El Camino Real. Kehoe Kelly lift station is located adjacent to 
Joinville Park on Kehoe Avenue, at the intersection of Kehoe Avenue and Kelly Street. Los Prados No. 1 lift station is 
located in the intersection of Los Prados Street, South Norfolk Street, and La Selva Street. Los Prados No. 2 lift station is 
193 of 293

--- page 194 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
located on Los Prados Street, between El Parque Court and Bahia Street. 
Package 2 was advertised for construction on May 2, 2025. Package 2’s mandatory pre-bid meeting and site visit was held 
on May 27, 2025. The engineer’s estimate was $12,400,000.00. Four (4) bids were received and opened on June 18, 2025. 
A&B Construction submitted the apparent lowest bid to construct Package 2 for a total price of $13,510,172.00; however, 
the bid submitted by A&B Construction was found to be non-responsive. Upon careful review of the bid package and 
consultation with A&B, the project team, including the design consultant, determined that their bid did not adequately 
address the challenging site conditions. Subsequent review of the remaining bids showed that the next lowest bidder with 
a complete responsive bid package was JMB Construction, Inc. with a total price of $14,658,091.00 to construct Package 2. 
Based on the price and the completeness of the bid, staff recommends for JMB Construction to be awarded the agreement 
as the lowest responsive and responsible bidder. The bids received are listed below in order of increasing bid amount. 
Contractor:
Bid Amount:
A&B Construction
$13,510,172.00
JMB Construction
$14,658,091.00
NTK Construction
$18,336,395.00
Mountain Cascade
$18,700,000.00
There is moderate likelihood that unforeseen issues will arise during construction due to difficult site conditions. 
Accordingly, staff also recommends establishing a contingency reserve in the amount of $2,750,000.00 to address any 
unanticipated items that may arise during construction. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funding for this agreement and contingency is available in the East San Mateo Lift Station Rehabilitation Project 
(469988). 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The work addressed by this administrative report is being undertaken to support the Clean Water Program. This project is 
subject to the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the general components of which are 
included as part of the Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) (SCH No. 201532006) that was 
prepared for the Clean Water Program. The Final PEIR was certified by City Council on June 6, 2016. The City prepared 
Addenda to the Final PEIR that was approved on July 16, 2018 (Addendum 1) and April 15, 2019 (Addendum 2). This work 
is within the scope of the Project evaluated in the PEIR and Addendum.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement
Att 2 – Bid Summary
STAFF CONTACT
Laura Webb, Senior Engineer
lwebb@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7322
Thomas Williams, Engineering Manager
twilliams@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7307
194 of 293

--- page 195 ---
Construction Contract
Page 1 of 9
Rev 1/24
AGREEMENT WITH JMB CONSTRUCTION, INC.
FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT
FOR
LOS PRADOS, KEHOE KELLY & ARROYO LIFT STATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
CITY PROJECT NO. 469988
THIS AGREEMENT FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS (“Agreement”), made and entered into in the 
City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, by and between the CITY OF SAN 
MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, (hereinafter called 
"City") and JMB CONSTRUCTION, INC., a corporation, with offices at 132 South Maple Avenue, South 
San Francisco, CA 94080 (hereinafter called "Contractor"), entered into this day of _______________.  
RECITALS:
(a) City has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize construction of the public work and 
improvements or other matters herein provided, and execution of this Agreement.
(b) A notice was duly published for bids for the contract for the improvement hereinafter 
described.
(c) After notice duly given, on the date hereof, the City awarded the contract for the construction 
of the improvements hereinafter described to Contractor.
IT IS AGREED, as follows:
1.
Scope of Work. Contractor shall perform the work according to the Contract Book entitled:
LOS PRADOS, KEHOE KELLY, AND ARROYO LIFT STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
CITY PROJECT NO. 469988
2.
Contract Price. City shall pay, and the Contractor shall accept, the sum of $14,658,091.00 in full 
payment for the work set forth above.
Said price is determined by the prices contained in Contractor's bid, and shall be paid as described 
in the Contract Book. In the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a 
reduction of those set forth in Contractor's bid and the specifications herein, such work and 
materials will be paid for as described in the Contract Book.
3.
The Contract Documents. The complete contract consists of the following documents: this 
Agreement; the Notice Inviting Sealed Proposals; the Accepted Proposal; the Contract Book which 
includes the Special Provisions and Contract Drawings, Addendum Number 1 issued to the 
Contract Book, the APWA-AGC Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction, 2015 
Edition, the Faithful Performance Bond, and the Labor and Material Bond (hereinafter referred to 
as the “contract documents”).
195 of 293

--- page 196 ---
Construction Contract
Page 2 of 9
Rev 1/24
All rights and obligations of City and Contractor are fully set forth and described in the contract 
documents.  The contract documents constitute the entire contract between the parties hereto 
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, fully supersede any and all prior understandings, 
representations, warranties and agreements between the parties hereto, or any of them, 
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and may be modified only by written agreement signed 
by all of the parties hereto.
All of the above-named documents are complementary and are intended to operate in harmony, so 
that any work called for in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the 
same as if mentioned in all said documents. In the event of any variation or discrepancy between any 
portion of this Agreement and any portion of the contract documents, this Agreement shall prevail. 
The precedence of the remaining contract documents will be as specified in the Contract Book.
4.
Schedule. All work shall be performed in accordance with the schedule provided pursuant to the 
Contract Book.
5.
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, City shall 
immediately give written notice thereof to Contractor and Contractor's sureties, and the sureties 
shall have the right to take over and perform the Agreement, provided, however, that if the sureties, 
within 5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give City written notice of their 
intention to take over the performance thereof within 5 days after notice to City of such election, City 
may take over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it 
may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of Contractor, and the sureties shall be 
liable to City for any excess cost or damages occasioned City thereby; and, in such event, City may, 
without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing the work, such materials, 
appliances, plant and other property belonging to Contractor as may be on the site of the work and 
necessary therefor.
6.
Legal Work Day - Penalties for Violation. Eight hours of labor shall constitute a legal day's work. 
Contractor shall not require more than 8 hours labor in a day and 40 hours in a calendar week 
from any person employed by Contractor in the performance of such work unless such excess 
work is compensated for at not less than 1-1/2 times the basic rate of pay. Contractor shall forfeit 
as a penalty to City the sum of $25.00 for each laborer, workman or mechanic employed in the 
execution of this contract by Contractor, or by any subcontractor for each calendar day during 
which such laborer, workman or mechanic is required or permitted to labor more than 8 hours in 
any calendar day and 40 hours in any one calendar week in violation of the provisions of Sections 
1810 and 1816, inclusive, of the Labor Code of the State of California.
7.
Prevailing Wage Scale. The prevailing wage scale as determined by the Director of Industrial Relations 
of the State of California, in force on the day the bid was announced, will be the minimum paid to all 
craftsmen and laborers working on this project. Contractor shall also require any subcontractors who 
work or provide any services related to the project to pay all persons performing labor or rendering 
service under said subcontract or other arrangement at least the general prevailing rate of wages, 
determined as set forth herein for the respective crafts and employments, including such wages for 
holiday and overtime work. A copy of the correct determination will be posted at the job site. It is 
understood that it is the responsibility of Contractor to determine the correct scale. Copies of the 
196 of 293

--- page 197 ---
Construction Contract
Page 3 of 9
Rev 1/24
prevailing wage rates are on file at the City Clerk's office, however, errors or defects in the materials 
in the City Clerk's office will not excuse a bidder's failure to comply with the actual scale then in force. 
Contractor must submit certified payrolls to the Department of Industrial Relations in accordance 
with Labor Code Section 1776.
Contractor agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal 
Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price 
Index escalator.
8.
Senate Bill 854 Compliance Required.  In accordance with Labor Code Sections 1725.5 and 1771.1, 
all contractors and subcontractors must be registered with the Department of Industrial Relations. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1771.4 the contractor must post job site notices as 
required by regulation and this project will be subject to compliance monitoring and enforcement 
by the Department of Industrial Relations.
9.
Insurance. The Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and five years 
thereafter the insurance as specified in Exhibit A of this agreement.
10. Indemnity. Contractor agrees to hold harmless and indemnify City, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense 
arising out of Contractor’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of 
City’s active negligence, sole negligence or willful misconduct.  Contractor agrees to defend City, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The Contractor’s duty 
to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement.
11. Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by 
the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of 
this Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial 
court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or 
actions.  It is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than 
$5000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.
12. Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The 
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties 
shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, 
the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The 
mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
197 of 293

--- page 198 ---
Construction Contract
Page 4 of 9
Rev 1/24
13. Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition to and not 
in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to City.
14. Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified mail, 
postage prepaid. 
a.
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed as follows:
Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
Notices required to be given to Contractor shall be addressed as appears in the signature 
block as shown on the Bidder's Statement.
15. Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes the 
plural and vice versa.
16. Governing Law and Venue. This Agreement, the contract documents, and the performance hereon 
shall be governed, interpreted, construed, and regulated by the laws of the State of California. The 
parties agree that any action related to this Agreement or the contract documents will be venued 
in the County of San Mateo.
17. Headings. The title and headings of the various sections of this Agreement and the contract 
documents are intended solely for convenience of reference and are not intended to explain, 
modify, or place any construction on any provisions.
18. No Partnership or Agency. Nothing in this Agreement nor the contract documents shall be deemed 
to constitute a partnership in law between City and Contractor, or any sub-contractor, to 
constitute either party as an agent of the other for any purpose; or to entitle either party to 
commit or bind the other in any manner unless expressly agreed upon in the contract documents.
19. Severability. If any part or provision of the contract documents is determined by any court to be 
illegal, invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the contract documents shall continue to be 
valid as to its other provisions and the remainder of the affected provision, unless it can be 
concluded from the circumstances that, in the absence of the provisions found to be null and void, 
the parties would not have entered into the contract documents. The parties shall use all 
reasonable efforts to replace any and all provisions or parts found to be null and void with 
provisions that are valid under the applicable law and come closest to their original intention.
20. Waiver. None of the following shall operate as a waiver of any provision of the contract documents, 
or of any power herein reserved by the City, or any right to damages herein provided: 1) inspection 
by the City or its authorized agents or representatives; 2) any order or certificate for payment, or any 
payment for, or acceptance of the whole or any part of the work by the City; 3) an extension of time; 
or 4) any position taken by the City or its authorized agents or representatives.
198 of 293

--- page 199 ---
Construction Contract
Page 5 of 9
Rev 1/24
21. Warranty. Contractor warrants and guarantees that the materials and equipment provided shall be 
at least of the quality specified and new unless otherwise required or permitted by the contract 
documents, and, if no quality is specified, then the materials and equipment shall be of commercial 
grade, suitable for heavy public use in facilities of similar size and complexity, that the work 
performed hereunder will be free from defects, and that the work will conform to the requirements 
of the contract documents.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
199 of 293

--- page 200 ---
Construction Contract
Page 6 of 9
Rev 1/24
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement between the CITY OF SAN MATEO and JMB 
CONSTRUCTION, INC. has been duly executed by the parties hereinabove named, as of the day and 
year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Matt Fabry
Director of Public Works
Date
 
Its Authorized Agent
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus an 
additional 
corporate 
officer 
(i.e., 
Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below.
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Linh P. Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Date
Attachments:
Exhibit A:
Insurance Requirements
200 of 293

--- page 201 ---
Construction Contract
Page 7 of 9
Rev 1/24
Exhibit A 
Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract, and for x years thereafter, 
insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise from or in 
connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the Contractor, his agents, 
representatives, employees, or subcontractors. 
MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 covering CGL 
on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property damage, bodily 
injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $5,000,000 per occurrence. If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this 
project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required 
occurrence limit.  
2. Automobile Liability:  Insurance Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), with 
limits no less than $5,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, 
and Employers’ Liability insurance with a limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease. 
4. Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) insurance utilizing an “All Risk” (Special Perils) coverage 
form, with limits equal to the completed value of the project and no coinsurance penalty 
provisions.
5. Surety Bonds as described below.
6. Professional Liability (if Design/Build), with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence or 
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.
7. Contractors’ Pollution Legal Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and Omissions 
(if project involves environmental hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or 
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.
If the contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above, 
the Entity requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or higher limits maintained by 
the contractor. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance 
and coverage shall be available to the Entity.
Self-Insured Retentions 
Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the Entity. At the option of the Entity, 
either: the contractor shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions 
as respects the Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; or the Contractor shall provide 
a financial guarantee satisfactory to the Entity guaranteeing payment of losses and related 
investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. The policy language shall provide, or be 
endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be satisfied by either the named insured or 
Entity.
Other Insurance Provisions 
201 of 293

--- page 202 ---
Construction Contract
Page 8 of 9
Rev 1/24
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
1. The Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional 
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed 
by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection 
with such work or operations and automobiles owned, leased, hired, or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to 
the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10, 
CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
2. For any claims related to this project, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the Entity, its officers, 
officials, employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the Entity, 
its officers, officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance and 
shall not contribute with it. 
3. Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, 
except with notice to the Entity.
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) Insurance 
Contractor may submit evidence of Builder’s Risk insurance in the form of Course of Construction 
coverage. Such coverage shall name the Entity as a loss payee as their interest may appear.
If the project does not involve new or major reconstruction, at the option of the Entity, an Installation 
Floater may be acceptable. For such projects, a Property Installation Floater shall be obtained that 
provides for the improvement, remodel, modification, alteration, conversion or adjustment to existing 
buildings, structures, processes, machinery and equipment.  The Property Installation Floater shall 
provide property damage coverage for any building, structure, machinery or equipment damaged, 
impaired, broken, or destroyed during the performance of the Work, including during transit, 
installation, and testing at the Entity’s site.
Claims Made Policies – (If at all possible avoid and require occurrence type CGL policies)
If any coverage required is written on a claims-made coverage form: 
1. The retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the execution date of the 
contract or the beginning of contract work.
2. Insurance must be maintained and evidence of insurance must be provided for at least five (5) 
years after completion of contract work. 
3. If coverage is canceled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made policy form 
with a retroactive date prior to the contract effective, or start of work date, the Contractor must 
purchase extended reporting period coverage for a minimum of five (5) years after completion 
of contract work. 
4. A copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the Entity for review. 
5. If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification/remediation, the Contractors 
Pollution Liability policy shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos exclusions. If the services 
involve mold identification/remediation, the Contractors Pollution Liability policy shall not 
contain a mold exclusion, and the definition of Pollution shall include microbial matter, including 
mold. 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current A.M. 
Best rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the Entity. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any insurer of Contractor may acquire 
202 of 293

--- page 203 ---
Construction Contract
Page 9 of 9
Rev 1/24
from Contractor by virtue of the payment of any loss. Contractor agrees to obtain any endorsement 
that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The Workers’ Compensation policy shall be 
endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of the Entity for all work performed by the Contractor, 
its employees, agents and subcontractors. 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the Entity with original Certificates of Insurance including all required 
amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by 
this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL policy listing all policy 
endorsements to Entity before work begins. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to 
the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s obligation to provide them.  The Entity reserves the 
right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements, 
required by these specifications, at any time.   
Subcontractors 
Contractor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all the 
requirements stated herein, and Contractor shall ensure that Entity is an additional insured on insurance 
required from subcontractors. For CGL coverage subcontractors shall provide coverage with a form at 
least as broad as CG 20 38 04 13.
Surety Bonds 
Contractor shall provide the following Surety Bonds:
1. Bid bond
2. Performance bond
3. Payment bond
4. Maintenance bond
The Payment Bond and the Performance Bond shall be in a sum equal to the contract price. If the 
Performance Bond provides for a one-year warranty a separate Maintenance Bond is not necessary.  If 
the warranty period specified in the contract is for longer than one year a Maintenance Bond equal to 
10% of the contract price is required.  Bonds shall be duly executed by a responsible corporate surety, 
authorized to issue such bonds in the State of California and secured through an authorized agent with 
an office in California.
Special Risks or Circumstances
Entity reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of the risk, 
prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other circumstances.
203 of 293

--- page 204 ---
ITEM
EST.
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
NO.
QTY.
UNIT
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
1
Mobilization & Demobilization
1
LS
$600,000.00
$600,000.00
$670,000.00
$670,000.00
$700,000.00
$700,000.00
$2,083,000.00
$2,083,000.00
$622,525.00
$622,525.00
2
Temporary Erosion and Sediment Control
1
LS
$50,000.00
$50,000.00
$250,000.18
$250,000.18
$95,000.00
$95,000.00
$100,000.00
$100,000.00
$100,000.00
$100,000.00
3
Pedestrian and Traffic Control
1
LS
$540,000.00
$540,000.00
$1,400,000.00
$1,400,000.00
$850,000.00
$850,000.00
$1,000,000.00
$1,000,000.00
$1,500,000.00
$1,500,000.00
4
Sheeting, Shoring, and Bracing
1
LS
$900,000.00
$900,000.00
$650,000.00
$650,000.00
$700,000.00
$700,000.00
$1,000,000.00
$1,000,000.00
$800,000.00
$800,000.00
5
Bypass Pumping
1
LS
$300,000.00
$300,000.00
$130,926.57
$130,926.57
$400,000.00
$400,000.00
$600,000.00
$600,000.00
$500,000.00
$500,000.00
$2,390,000.00
$3,100,926.75
$2,745,000.00
$4,783,000.00
$3,522,525.00
6
Abandon Los Prados No. 1 Wet Well & Dry Well
1
LS
$50,000.00
$50,000.00
$45,453.69
$45,453.69
$63,000.00
$63,000.00
$75,000.00
$75,000.00
$80,000.00
$80,000.00
7
Abandon Los Prados No. 2 Lift Station & Site Restoration 
1
LS
$70,000.00
$70,000.00
$45,453.69
$45,453.69
$73,000.00
$73,000.00
$75,000.00
$75,000.00
$15,000.00
$15,000.00
8
Remove Electrical Equipment
1
LS
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
$13,234.88
$13,234.88
$12,000.00
$12,000.00
$2,000.00
$2,000.00
$14,000.00
$14,000.00
9
Remove and Replace Water Service & Hose Bib
1
LS
$15,000.00
$15,000.00
$48,270.91
$48,270.91
$50,000.00
$50,000.00
$60,000.00
$60,000.00
$3,000.00
$3,000.00
10
Abandon Sanitary Gravity Main
1,497
LF
$50.00
$74,850.00
$55.50
$83,083.50
$40.00
$59,880.00
$12.00
$17,964.00
$20.00
$29,940.00
11
Abandon Sanitary Force Main
510
LF
$50.00
$25,500.00
$58.44
$29,804.40
$30.00
$15,300.00
$12.00
$6,120.00
$28.00
$14,280.00
12
Remove/Abandon Sanitary Manhole
4
EA
$5,000.00
$20,000.00
$12,819.47
$51,277.88
$9,500.00
$38,000.00
$2,000.00
$8,000.00
$11,000.00
$44,000.00
13
Abandon 12" Storm Drain
35
LF
$50.00
$1,750.00
$335.27
$11,734.45
$185.00
$6,475.00
$12.00
$420.00
$150.00
$5,250.00
14
Remove Storm Drain Inlets, Manhole & 27" Pipe 
1
LS
$12,000.00
$12,000.00
$19,437.88
$19,437.88
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
$6,000.00
$6,000.00
$25,000.00
$25,000.00
15
Remove (E) Storm Drain Underdrain 
206
LF
$40.00
$8,240.00
$132.24
$27,241.44
$85.00
$17,510.00
$50.00
$10,300.00
$60.00
$12,360.00
16
Site Clearing, Grubbing, and Grading 
1
LS
$50,000.00
$50,000.00
$191,854.32
$191,854.32
$90,000.00
$90,000.00
$50,000.00
$50,000.00
$20,000.00
$20,000.00
17
Flow Meter Manhole
1
LS
$35,000.00
$35,000.00
$52,238.38
$52,238.38
$35,000.00
$35,000.00
$35,000.00
$35,000.00
$22,000.00
$22,000.00
18
Precast Concrete Valve Vault
1
LS
$65,000.00
$65,000.00
$125,809.39
$125,809.39
$102,000.00
$102,000.00
$160,000.00
$160,000.00
$110,000.00
$110,000.00
19
Precast Concrete Wet Well
1
LS
$200,000.00
$200,000.00
$277,137.69
$277,137.69
$350,000.00
$350,000.00
$450,000.00
$450,000.00
$800,000.00
$800,000.00
20
Electrical Service & Service Pedestal 
1
LS
$40,000.00
$40,000.00
$27,717.67
$27,717.67
$39,000.00
$39,000.00
$25,000.00
$25,000.00
$500,000.00
$500,000.00
21
Control Panel
1
LS
$200,000.00
$200,000.00
$358,239.17
$358,239.17
$500,000.00
$500,000.00
$450,000.00
$450,000.00
$55,000.00
$55,000.00
22
Pump Termination Cabinet
1
LS
$35,000.00
$35,000.00
$28,525.30
$28,525.30
$38,000.00
$38,000.00
$20,000.00
$20,000.00
$45,000.00
$45,000.00
23
Generator
1
LS
$160,000.00
$160,000.00
$188,397.29
$188,397.29
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
$240,000.00
$240,000.00
$230,000.00
$230,000.00
24
SCADA Pole & Antenna
1
LS
$15,000.00
$15,000.00
$44,703.99
$44,703.99
$19,000.00
$19,000.00
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
$20,000.00
$20,000.00
25
Misc. Electrical Work
1
LS 
$150,000.00
$150,000.00
$194,854.68
$194,854.68
$190,000.00
$190,000.00
$220,000.00
$220,000.00
$220,000.00
$220,000.00
26
Fence and Gate
1
LS
$7,000.00
$7,000.00
$39,674.72
$39,674.72
$160,000.00
$160,000.00
$40,000.00
$40,000.00
$30,000.00
$30,000.00
27
Install (N) Sanitary Manhole
6
EA
$20,000.00
$120,000.00
$27,970.68
$167,824.08
$47,000.00
$282,000.00
$18,000.00
$108,000.00
$30,000.00
$180,000.00
28
Remove and Replace Sanitary Manhole
1
EA
$20,000.00
$20,000.00
$46,154.92
$46,154.92
$36,000.00
$36,000.00
$25,000.00
$25,000.00
$30,000.00
$30,000.00
29
(E) Manhole - Reform Invert
2
EA
$2,500.00
$5,000.00
$7,273.70
$14,547.40
$13,000.00
$26,000.00
$13,000.00
$26,000.00
$3,000.00
$6,000.00
30
Pump, Guide Rails and Accessories
2
EA
$70,000.00
$140,000.00
$113,030.61
$226,061.22
$115,000.00
$230,000.00
$100,000.00
$200,000.00
$155,000.00
$310,000.00
31
Submersible Mixer
1
EA
$40,000.00
$40,000.00
$27,396.63
$27,396.63
$28,000.00
$28,000.00
$26,000.00
$26,000.00
$55,000.00
$55,000.00
32
Discharge Piping, Valves, Bypass Connection, & Fittings
1
LS
$90,000.00
$90,000.00
$159,995.72
$159,995.72
$125,000.00
$125,000.00
$160,000.00
$160,000.00
$166,500.00
$166,500.00
33
Storm Drain Inlet & 27-Inch Piping
1
LS
$20,000.00
$20,000.00
$34,649.26
$34,649.26
$38,000.00
$38,000.00
$36,000.00
$36,000.00
$50,000.00
$50,000.00
34
8-inch PVC Gravity Main
231
LF
$600.00
$138,600.00
$267.14
$61,709.34
$707.00
$163,317.00
$830.00
$191,730.00
$1,000.00
$231,000.00
35
10-inch PVC Gravity Main
27
LF
$850.00
$22,950.00
$730.01
$19,710.27
$750.00
$20,250.00
$840.00
$22,680.00
$1,100.00
$29,700.00
36
12-inch PVC Gravity Main 
1,277
LF
$1,350.00
$1,723,950.00
$354.43
$452,607.11
$917.00
$1,171,009.00
$1,300.00
$1,660,100.00
$1,335.00
$1,704,795.00
37
Lateral Extension and Connection
6
EA
$3,000.00
$18,000.00
$14,878.02
$89,268.12
$7,800.00
$46,800.00
$5,000.00
$30,000.00
$6,000.00
$36,000.00
38
Lateral Reconnection
7
EA
$1,200.00
$8,400.00
$15,719.12
$110,033.84
$1,800.00
$12,600.00
$515.00
$3,605.00
$5,000.00
$35,000.00
BIDDER 4
Mountain Cascade
BIDDER #4
Los Prados Pump Stations
Total
Los Prados, Kehoe Kelly, and Arroyo Lift Station Rehabilitation Project, City Project. No. 469988
BID SUMMARY
BIDDER 3
NTK Construction, Inc.
BIDDER #3
BID OPENING: 6/18/2025       Council Award:  08/18/2025
BIDDER 2
JMB Construction, Inc.
BIDDER #2
BIDDER 1
CITY PROJECT NO. 469988
BIDDER #1
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
A&B Construction, Inc.
ENGINEER'S ESTIMATE
Page 1
LiftStations-BidResultsBreakdown
204 of 293

--- page 205 ---
ITEM
EST.
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
NO.
QTY.
UNIT
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
BIDDER 4
Mountain Cascade
BIDDER #4
Los Prados, Kehoe Kelly, and Arroyo Lift Station Rehabilitation Project, City Project. No. 469988
BID SUMMARY
BIDDER 3
NTK Construction, Inc.
BIDDER #3
BID OPENING: 6/18/2025       Council Award:  08/18/2025
BIDDER 2
JMB Construction, Inc.
BIDDER #2
BIDDER 1
CITY PROJECT NO. 469988
BIDDER #1
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
A&B Construction, Inc.
ENGINEER'S ESTIMATE
39
12-inch DI Force Main
6
LF
$1,200.00
$7,200.00
$5,620.59
$33,723.54
$1,200.00
$7,200.00
$2,300.00
$13,800.00
$2,000.00
$12,000.00
40
10-inch PVC Force Main
2,238
LF
$650.00
$1,454,700.00
$368.31
$824,277.78
$660.00
$1,477,080.00
$845.00
$1,891,110.00
$700.00
$1,566,600.00
41
4-Inch Underdrain
274
LF
$120.00
$32,880.00
$66.89
$18,327.86
$85.00
$23,290.00
$200.00
$54,800.00
$60.00
$16,440.00
42
Curb & Gutter
486
LF
$75.00
$36,450.00
$99.16
$48,191.76
$115.00
$55,890.00
$125.00
$60,750.00
$50.00
$24,300.00
43
Sidewalk 
6,050
SF
$15.00
$90,750.00
$21.05
$127,352.50
$18.00
$108,900.00
$25.00
$151,250.00
$12.00
$72,600.00
44
ADA Ramp
5
EA
$6,500.00
$32,500.00
$3,574.45
$17,872.25
$6,000.00
$30,000.00
$7,300.00
$36,500.00
$2,250.00
$11,250.00
45
Full Depth AC Replacement & Re-Grading (Intersection Reconfiguration)
825
SY
$55.00
$45,375.00
$190.76
$157,377.00
$228.00
$188,100.00
$275.00
$226,875.00
$200.00
$165,000.00
46
2" Grind & Overlay 
12,135
SY
$35.00
$424,725.00
$29.35
$356,162.25
$37.00
$448,995.00
$43.00
$521,805.00
$50.00
$606,750.00
47
Pavement Dig Outs
600
SY
$100.00
$60,000.00
$374.89
$224,934.00
$370.00
$222,000.00
$205.00
$123,000.00
$450.00
$270,000.00
48
Signs, Pavement Striping, and Markings
1
LS
$30,000.00
$30,000.00
$79,084.94
$79,084.94
$68,000.00
$68,000.00
$66,360.00
$66,360.00
$285,000.00
$285,000.00
49
Landscaping & Irrigation
1
LS
$40,000.00
$40,000.00
$45,984.32
$45,984.32
$37,000.00
$37,000.00
$75,000.00
$75,000.00
$37,000.00
$37,000.00
50
Misc. Site Improvements, Cleanup, and Startup 
1
LS
$20,000.00
$20,000.00
$159,440.04
$159,440.04
$37,000.00
$37,000.00
$70,000.00
$70,000.00
$12,000.00
$12,000.00
$5,866,000.00
$5,406,831.47
$7,000,596.00
$7,741,169.00
$8,207,765.00
51
Abandon (E) Dry Well & Convert (E) Wet Well
1
LS
$60,000.00
$60,000.00
$45,992.45
$45,992.45
$130,000.00
$130,000.00
$75,000.00
$75,000.00
$124,000.00
$124,000.00
52
Abandon (E) 8-Inch Sanitary Gravity Main
37
LF
$50.00
$1,850.00
$264.29
$9,778.73
$110.00
$4,070.00
$12.00
$444.00
$150.00
$5,550.00
53
Abandon (E) 6-Inch Sanitary Force Main
170
LF
$50.00
$8,500.00
$89.45
$15,206.50
$38.00
$6,460.00
$12.00
$2,040.00
$40.00
$6,800.00
54
Remove (E) Electrical Equipment
1
LS
$20,000.00
$20,000.00
$13,234.88
$13,234.88
$8,000.00
$8,000.00
$2,000.00
$2,000.00
$18,000.00
$18,000.00
55
Remove & Replace Street Light Conduit & Lead
1
LS
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
$19,837.36
$19,837.36
$16,000.00
$16,000.00
$25,000.00
$25,000.00
$70,000.00
$70,000.00
56
Remove & Replace Hose Bib
1
LS
$8,000.00
$8,000.00
$11,176.37
$11,176.37
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
$35,000.00
$35,000.00
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
57
Site Clearing, Grubbing, and Grading 
1
LS
$30,000.00
$30,000.00
$53,948.44
$53,948.44
$26,000.00
$26,000.00
$25,000.00
$25,000.00
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
58
Precast Concrete Valve Vault
1
LS
$90,000.00
$90,000.00
$84,802.71
$84,802.71
$80,000.00
$80,000.00
$100,000.00
$100,000.00
$60,000.00
$60,000.00
59
Precast Concrete Wet Well
1
LS
$230,000.00
$230,000.00
$358,520.26
$358,520.26
$310,000.00
$310,000.00
$420,000.00
$420,000.00
$600,000.00
$600,000.00
60
Pump, Guide Rails and Accessories (Wet Weather Pumps)
2
EA
$70,000.00
$140,000.00
$113,322.22
$226,644.44
$114,000.00
$228,000.00
$110,000.00
$220,000.00
$88,000.00
$176,000.00
61
Pump, Guide Rails and Accessories (Dry Weather Pumps)
1
EA
$30,000.00
$30,000.00
$36,337.40
$36,337.40
$38,000.00
$38,000.00
$38,000.00
$38,000.00
$18,000.00
$18,000.00
62
Submersible Mixer
1
EA
$40,000.00
$40,000.00
$27,396.63
$27,396.63
$28,000.00
$28,000.00
$26,000.00
$26,000.00
$55,000.00
$55,000.00
63
Discharge Piping, Valves, Bypass Connection, & Fittings
1
LS
$100,000.00
$100,000.00
$178,106.27
$178,106.27
$130,000.00
$130,000.00
$165,000.00
$165,000.00
$225,000.00
$225,000.00
64
Electrical Service & Pole 
1
LS
$50,000.00
$50,000.00
$64,747.40
$64,747.40
$48,000.00
$48,000.00
$60,000.00
$60,000.00
$75,000.00
$75,000.00
65
Control Panel
1
LS
$220,000.00
$220,000.00
$358,522.03
$358,522.03
$500,000.00
$500,000.00
$450,000.00
$450,000.00
$700,000.00
$700,000.00
66
Pump Termination Cabinet
1
LS
$35,000.00
$35,000.00
$28,525.30
$28,525.30
$38,000.00
$38,000.00
$17,000.00
$17,000.00
$40,000.00
$40,000.00
67
Generator
1
LS
$160,000.00
$160,000.00
$188,397.29
$188,397.29
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
$240,000.00
$240,000.00
$230,000.00
$230,000.00
68
SCADA Pole & Antenna
1
LS
$15,000.00
$15,000.00
$44,703.99
$44,703.99
$18,000.00
$18,000.00
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
$17,000.00
$17,000.00
69
Misc. Electrical Work
1
LS 
$150,000.00
$150,000.00
$192,219.64
$192,219.64
$185,000.00
$185,000.00
$230,000.00
$230,000.00
$200,000.00
$200,000.00
70
Chain Link Fence & Gates
1
LS
$20,000.00
$20,000.00
$39,674.72
$39,674.72
$25,000.00
$25,000.00
$21,000.00
$21,000.00
$30,000.00
$30,000.00
71
8-inch PVC Gravity Main
44
LF
$1,000.00
$44,000.00
$1,022.29
$44,980.76
$733.00
$32,252.00
$1,150.00
$50,600.00
$1,500.00
$66,000.00
72
4-inch PVC Force Main
126
LF
$550.00
$69,300.00
$335.91
$42,324.66
$337.00
$42,462.00
$810.00
$102,060.00
$730.00
$91,980.00
73
8-inch PVC Force Main
1,216
LF
$650.00
$790,400.00
$337.90
$410,886.40
$368.00
$447,488.00
$686.00
$834,176.00
$750.00
$912,000.00
74
6-inch HDPE Force Main
173
LF
$650.00
$112,450.00
$264.50
$45,758.50
$288.00
$49,824.00
$580.00
$100,340.00
$1,300.00
$224,900.00
75
Force Main Hot Tap and Gate Valve
1
LS
$35,000.00
$35,000.00
$14,547.39
$14,547.39
$26,000.00
$26,000.00
$75,000.00
$75,000.00
$45,000.00
$45,000.00
76
Force Main Purge Valve and Manhole
1
EA
$25,000.00
$25,000.00
$7,934.94
$7,934.94
$6,300.00
$6,300.00
$18,000.00
$18,000.00
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
Kehoe Kelley Pump Station
Total
Page 2
LiftStations-BidResultsBreakdown
205 of 293

--- page 206 ---
ITEM
EST.
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
NO.
QTY.
UNIT
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
BIDDER 4
Mountain Cascade
BIDDER #4
Los Prados, Kehoe Kelly, and Arroyo Lift Station Rehabilitation Project, City Project. No. 469988
BID SUMMARY
BIDDER 3
NTK Construction, Inc.
BIDDER #3
BID OPENING: 6/18/2025       Council Award:  08/18/2025
BIDDER 2
JMB Construction, Inc.
BIDDER #2
BIDDER 1
CITY PROJECT NO. 469988
BIDDER #1
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
A&B Construction, Inc.
ENGINEER'S ESTIMATE
77
Odor Control Tank and Equipment
1
LS
$120,000.00
$120,000.00
$79,194.30
$79,194.30
$84,000.00
$84,000.00
$45,000.00
$45,000.00
$72,000.00
$72,000.00
78
Gravel Surface 
240
SF
$10.00
$2,400.00
$39.27
$9,424.80
$23.00
$5,520.00
$22.00
$5,280.00
$45.00
$10,800.00
79
Concrete Access Pad
534
SF
$25.00
$13,350.00
$37.16
$19,843.44
$32.00
$17,088.00
$20.00
$10,680.00
$80.00
$42,720.00
80
Curb & Gutter
80
LF
$75.00
$6,000.00
$174.07
$13,925.60
$125.00
$10,000.00
$100.00
$8,000.00
$50.00
$4,000.00
81
Sidewalk 
200
SF
$25.00
$5,000.00
$71.97
$14,394.00
$22.00
$4,400.00
$20.00
$4,000.00
$10.00
$2,000.00
82
Driveway Approach 
1
EA
$4,000.00
$4,000.00
$5,678.24
$5,678.24
$6,000.00
$6,000.00
$7,500.00
$7,500.00
$11,000.00
$11,000.00
83
2" Grind & Overlay 
2,191
SY
$35.00
$76,685.00
$37.60
$82,381.60
$40.00
$87,640.00
$43.00
$94,213.00
$50.00
$109,550.00
84
Pavement Dig Outs
100
SY
$100.00
$10,000.00
$256.56
$25,656.00
$270.00
$27,000.00
$205.00
$20,500.00
$450.00
$45,000.00
85
Pavement Striping and Markings
1
LS
$14,000.00
$14,000.00
$1,653.11
$1,653.11
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
$9,827.00
$9,827.00
$55,000.00
$55,000.00
86
Misc. Site Improvements, Cleanup, and Startup 
1
LS
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
$111,816.42
$111,816.42
$55,000.00
$55,000.00
$25,000.00
$25,000.00
$8,000.00
$8,000.00
$2,756,000.00
$2,928,172.97
$2,989,504.00
$3,571,660.00
$4,375,300.00
87
Abandon (E) Wet Well & Dry Well
1
LS
$30,000.00
$30,000.00
$54,611.55
$54,611.55
$76,000.00
$76,000.00
$75,000.00
$75,000.00
$60,000.00
$60,000.00
88
Abandon (E) 36-Inch Sanitary Gravity Main
21
LF
$300.00
$6,300.00
$700.71
$14,714.91
$285.00
$5,985.00
$115.00
$2,415.00
$250.00
$5,250.00
89
Abandon/Remove (E) 6-Inch Sanitary Force Main
320
LF
$150.00
$48,000.00
$71.93
$23,017.60
$41.00
$13,120.00
$12.00
$3,840.00
$50.00
$16,000.00
90
Abandon (E) 4-Inch Piping
32
LF
$150.00
$4,800.00
$357.44
$11,438.08
$165.00
$5,280.00
$12.00
$384.00
$45.00
$1,440.00
91
Remove (E) Electrical Equipment
1
LS
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
$13,234.88
$13,234.88
$7,000.00
$7,000.00
$2,000.00
$2,000.00
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
92
Remove (E) Trees
1
LS
$7,500.00
$7,500.00
$10,579.93
$10,579.93
$8,000.00
$8,000.00
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$2,000.00
$2,000.00
93
Site Clearing, Grubbing, and Grading 
1
LS
$20,000.00
$20,000.00
$59,899.65
$59,899.65
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
$25,000.00
$25,000.00
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
94
Precast Concrete Valve Vault
1
LS
$90,000.00
$90,000.00
$103,622.20
$103,622.20
$72,000.00
$72,000.00
$100,000.00
$100,000.00
$25,000.00
$25,000.00
95
Precast Concrete Wet Well
1
LS
$125,000.00
$125,000.00
$272,651.05
$272,651.05
$242,000.00
$242,000.00
$460,000.00
$460,000.00
$450,000.00
$450,000.00
96
Remove and Replace Manhole
1
EA
$15,000.00
$15,000.00
$34,384.76
$34,384.76
$28,000.00
$28,000.00
$23,000.00
$23,000.00
$35,000.00
$35,000.00
97
Pump, Guide Rails and Accessories 
2
EA
$35,000.00
$70,000.00
$61,707.39
$123,414.78
$63,000.00
$126,000.00
$60,000.00
$120,000.00
$80,000.00
$160,000.00
98
Submersible Mixer
1
EA
$40,000.00
$40,000.00
$27,396.63
$27,396.63
$27,000.00
$27,000.00
$26,000.00
$26,000.00
$30,000.00
$30,000.00
99
Discharge Piping, Valves, Bypass Connection, & Fittings
1
LS
$75,000.00
$75,000.00
$107,608.27
$107,608.27
$67,000.00
$67,000.00
$90,000.00
$90,000.00
$155,000.00
$155,000.00
100
Electrical Service 
1
LS
$30,000.00
$30,000.00
$6,613.91
$6,613.91
$19,000.00
$19,000.00
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$25,000.00
$25,000.00
101
Control Panel
1
LS
$200,000.00
$200,000.00
$303,921.13
$303,921.13
$450,000.00
$450,000.00
$450,000.00
$450,000.00
$440,000.00
$440,000.00
102
Pump Termination Cabinet
1
LS
$35,000.00
$35,000.00
$28,525.30
$28,525.30
$39,000.00
$39,000.00
$17,000.00
$17,000.00
$45,000.00
$45,000.00
103
Generator
1
LS
$150,000.00
$150,000.00
$173,816.83
$173,816.83
$225,000.00
$225,000.00
$240,000.00
$240,000.00
$160,000.00
$160,000.00
104
SCADA Pole, Antenna, & Site Light
1
LS
$17,000.00
$17,000.00
$49,936.74
$49,936.74
$18,000.00
$18,000.00
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
$18,000.00
$18,000.00
105
Misc. Electrical Work
1
LS 
$150,000.00
$150,000.00
$175,027.27
$175,027.27
$190,000.00
$190,000.00
$195,000.00
$195,000.00
$180,000.00
$180,000.00
106
Fence & Gates
1
LS
$30,000.00
$30,000.00
$39,674.72
$39,674.72
$30,000.00
$30,000.00
$33,000.00
$33,000.00
$30,000.00
$30,000.00
107
Water Service and Hose Bib
1
LS
$20,000.00
$20,000.00
$43,642.19
$43,642.19
$18,000.00
$18,000.00
$18,000.00
$18,000.00
$30,000.00
$30,000.00
108
Modify Manhole 262-40
1
LS
$4,000.00
$4,000.00
$29,491.54
$29,491.54
$6,400.00
$6,400.00
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$20,000.00
$20,000.00
109
10-inch PVC Gravity Main
27
LF
$1,000.00
$27,000.00
$899.29
$24,280.83
$550.00
$14,850.00
$913.00
$24,651.00
$2,800.00
$75,600.00
110
6-inch HDPE Force Main
288
LF
$425.00
$122,400.00
$297.56
$85,697.28
$262.00
$75,456.00
$580.00
$167,040.00
$1,000.00
$288,000.00
111
10-Inch HDPE Force Main Casing
20
LF
$100.00
$2,000.00
$1,540.70
$30,814.00
$900.00
$18,000.00
$915.00
$18,300.00
$3,000.00
$60,000.00
112
6-inch PVC Gravity Main
8
LF
$400.00
$3,200.00
$2,512.73
$20,101.84
$480.00
$3,840.00
$1,160.00
$9,280.00
$820.00
$6,560.00
113
Concrete Access Pad
260
SF
$25.00
$6,500.00
$49.66
$12,911.60
$32.00
$8,320.00
$20.00
$5,200.00
$250.00
$65,000.00
114
Curb & Gutter
40
LF
$75.00
$3,000.00
$249.57
$9,982.80
$135.00
$5,400.00
$90.00
$3,600.00
$50.00
$2,000.00
Total
Arroyo Pump Station
Page 3
LiftStations-BidResultsBreakdown
206 of 293

--- page 207 ---
ITEM
EST.
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
NO.
QTY.
UNIT
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
BIDDER 4
Mountain Cascade
BIDDER #4
Los Prados, Kehoe Kelly, and Arroyo Lift Station Rehabilitation Project, City Project. No. 469988
BID SUMMARY
BIDDER 3
NTK Construction, Inc.
BIDDER #3
BID OPENING: 6/18/2025       Council Award:  08/18/2025
BIDDER 2
JMB Construction, Inc.
BIDDER #2
BIDDER 1
CITY PROJECT NO. 469988
BIDDER #1
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
A&B Construction, Inc.
ENGINEER'S ESTIMATE
115
2" Grind & Overlay 
992
SY
$35.00
$34,720.00
$56.52
$56,067.84
$45.00
$44,640.00
$43.00
$42,656.00
$55.00
$54,560.00
116
Pavement Dig Outs
100
SY
$100.00
$10,000.00
$256.56
$25,656.00
$209.00
$20,900.00
$205.00
$20,500.00
$550.00
$55,000.00
117
Pavement Striping and Markings
1
LS
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$991.87
$991.87
$1,800.00
$1,800.00
$1,700.00
$1,700.00
$35,000.00
$35,000.00
118
Trees, Shrubs, and Irrigation 
1
LS
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$25,932.72
$25,932.72
$17,000.00
$17,000.00
$25,000.00
$25,000.00
$35,000.00
$35,000.00
119
Misc. Site Improvements, Cleanup, and Startup 
1
LS
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
$74,580.11
$74,580.11
$30,000.00
$30,000.00
$17,000.00
$17,000.00
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
$1,406,000.00
$2,074,240.81
$1,922,991.00
$2,240,566.00
$2,594,410.00
$12,400,000.00
$13,510,172.00
$14,658,091.00
$18,336,395.00
$18,700,000.00
Total
TOTAL BID 
Page 4
LiftStations-BidResultsBreakdown
207 of 293

--- page 208 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 82-4681
File ID: 25-10230
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
August 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Central Recreation Center Roof Improvements Project — Contract Award
RECOMMENDATION:
Award a construction contract to I & A Contractor, Inc. for improvements to the roof at the Central Recreation Center in 
the amount of $196,000; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $39,200; and authorize the Public Works 
Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency 
amount. 
BACKGROUND:
The Central Recreation Center at Central Park has served the community for over sixty-five years. The building’s roof 
structure consists of flat gravel and sloped wood shingle. The wood shingle has been subjected to decades of moisture and 
leaks which have been an on-going issue at the facility for years. In 2023, a Citywide roof assessment identified this specific 
location as a potential health and safety risk due to the compromised roof structure. Therefore, funding for this project 
was provided in Fiscal Year 2024-25.
In August 2024, the City engaged McGinnis Chen Associates, Inc. to produce design specifications related to the roof 
improvements as required by the California Building Code. The bid documents for this project were subsequently 
advertised in June 2025. Bids were received on July 17, 2025, with the following results:
Company
Bid Amount
Diablo Roofing + Waterproofing, Inc.
$183,000
I & A Contractor, Inc.
$196,000
Best Contracting Services
$235,450
Although Diablo Roofing + Waterproofing, Inc. provided the apparent lowest bid, it did not provide any suppliers as 
required by the technical specifications in the Contract Book; as such, its bid is non-responsive. Therefore, staff 
recommends the contract be awarded to I & A Contractor, Inc. as the lowest responsive and responsible bidder. 
Staff also recommends a 20 percent contingency because of expected unknown conditions that will be uncovered during 
construction given the age and condition of the existing roof.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Central Recreation Center: Roof Replacement Project (46F042) currently has sufficient budget available to fund this 
construction contract and contingency reserve. 
208 of 293

--- page 209 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Contract
STAFF CONTACT
Steve Wu, Facilities & Fleet Services Manager
swu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7345
209 of 293

--- page 210 ---
AGREEMENT WITH I & A CONTRACTOR, INC.
FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT
FOR
CENTRAL RECREATION CENTER ROOF IMPROVEMENTS
CITY PROJECT NO. 46F042
THIS AGREEMENT FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS (“Agreement”), made and entered into in the 
City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, by and between the CITY OF SAN 
MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, (hereinafter called 
"City") and I & A CONTRACTOR, INC. a CORPORATION, with offices at 3686 Depot Rd., Hayward, CA 
94545 (hereinafter called "Contractor"), entered into this day of ____________________.  
RECITALS:
(a) City has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize construction of the public work and 
improvements or other matters herein provided, and execution of this Agreement.
(b) A notice was duly published for bids for the contract for the improvement hereinafter 
described.
(c) After notice duly given, on the date hereof, the City awarded the contract for the construction 
of the improvements hereinafter described to Contractor.
IT IS AGREED, as follows:
1.
Scope of Work. Contractor shall perform the work according to Exhibit A - Scope of Work, attached 
and incorporated for reference.
2.
Contract Price. City shall pay, and the Contractor shall accept, the sum of One Hundred Ninety-Six 
Thousand dollars ($196,000.00) in full payment for the work set forth above.
Said price is determined by the prices contained in Contractor's bid, and shall be paid as described 
in the Contract Book. In the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a 
reduction of those set forth in Contractor's bid and the specifications herein, such work and 
materials will be paid for as described in the Contract Book.
3.
The Contract Documents. The complete contract consists of the following documents: this 
Agreement; the Notice Inviting Bids; the Accepted Bid Proposal; the Contract Book which includes 
the Special Provisions and Contract Drawings, Addendum Number 1 issued to the Contract Book, 
the APWA-AGC Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction, 2015 Edition, the Faithful 
Performance Bond, and the Labor and Material Bond (hereinafter referred to as the “contract 
documents”).
All rights and obligations of City and Contractor are fully set forth and described in the contract 
documents.  The contract documents constitute the entire contract between the parties hereto 
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, fully supersede any and all prior understandings, 
representations, warranties and agreements between the parties hereto, or any of them, 
210 of 293

--- page 211 ---
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and may be modified only by written agreement signed 
by all of the parties hereto.
All of the above-named documents are complementary and are intended to operate in harmony, so 
that any work called for in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the 
same as if mentioned in all said documents. In the event of any variation or discrepancy between any 
portion of this Agreement and any portion of the contract documents, this Agreement shall prevail. 
The precedence of the remaining contract documents will be as specified in the Contract Book.
4.
Schedule. All work shall be performed in accordance with the schedule provided pursuant to the 
Contract Book.
5.
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, City shall 
immediately give written notice thereof to Contractor and Contractor's sureties, and the sureties 
shall have the right to take over and perform the Agreement, provided, however, that if the sureties, 
within 5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give City written notice of their 
intention to take over the performance thereof within 5 days after notice to City of such election, City 
may take over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it 
may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of Contractor, and the sureties shall be 
liable to City for any excess cost or damages occasioned City thereby; and, in such event, City may, 
without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing the work, such materials, 
appliances, plant and other property belonging to Contractor as may be on the site of the work and 
necessary therefor.
6.
Legal Work Day - Penalties for Violation. Eight hours of labor shall constitute a legal day's work. 
Contractor shall not require more than 8 hours labor in a day and 40 hours in a calendar week 
from any person employed by Contractor in the performance of such work unless such excess 
work is compensated for at not less than 1-1/2 times the basic rate of pay. Contractor shall forfeit 
as a penalty to City the sum of $25.00 for each laborer, workman or mechanic employed in the 
execution of this contract by Contractor, or by any subcontractor for each calendar day during 
which such laborer, workman or mechanic is required or permitted to labor more than 8 hours in 
any calendar day and 40 hours in any one calendar week in violation of the provisions of Sections 
1810 and 1816, inclusive, of the Labor Code of the State of California.
7.
Prevailing Wage Scale. The prevailing wage scale as determined by the Director of Industrial Relations 
of the State of California, in force on the day the bid was announced, will be the minimum paid to all 
craftsmen and laborers working on this project. Contractor shall also require any subcontractors who 
work or provide any services related to the project to pay all persons performing labor or rendering 
service under said subcontract or other arrangement at least the general prevailing rate of wages, 
determined as set forth herein for the respective crafts and employments, including such wages for 
holiday and overtime work. A copy of the correct determination will be posted at the job site. It is 
understood that it is the responsibility of Contractor to determine the correct scale. Copies of the 
prevailing wage rates are on file at the City Clerk's office, however, errors or defects in the materials 
in the City Clerk's office will not excuse a bidder's failure to comply with the actual scale then in force. 
Contractor must submit certified payrolls to the Department of Industrial Relations in accordance 
with Labor Code Section 1776.
211 of 293

--- page 212 ---
Contractor agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal 
Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price 
Index escalator.
8.
Senate Bill 854 Compliance Required.  In accordance with Labor Code Sections 1725.5 and 1771.1, 
all contractors and subcontractors must be registered with the Department of Industrial Relations. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1771.4 the contractor must post job site notices as 
required by regulation and this project will be subject to compliance monitoring and enforcement 
by the Department of Industrial Relations.
9.
Insurance. The Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and five years 
thereafter the insurance as specified in Exhibit B of this agreement.
10. Indemnity. Contractor agrees to hold harmless and indemnify City, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense 
arising out of Contractor’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of 
City’s active negligence, sole negligence or willful misconduct.  Contractor agrees to defend City, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The Contractor’s duty 
to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement.
11. Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by 
the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of 
this Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial 
court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or 
actions.  It is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than 
$5000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.
12. Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The 
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties 
shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, 
the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The 
mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
13. Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition to and not 
in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to City.
14. Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified mail, 
postage prepaid. 
212 of 293

--- page 213 ---
a.
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed as follows:
Public Works Director
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
Notices required to be given to Contractor shall be addressed as appears in the signature 
block as shown on the Bidder's Statement.
15. Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes the 
plural and vice versa.
16. Governing Law and Venue. This Agreement, the contract documents, and the performance hereon 
shall be governed, interpreted, construed, and regulated by the laws of the State of California. The 
parties agree that any action related to this Agreement or the contract documents will be venued 
in the County of San Mateo.
17. Headings. The title and headings of the various sections of this Agreement and the contract 
documents are intended solely for convenience of reference and are not intended to explain, 
modify, or place any construction on any provisions.
18. No Partnership or Agency. Nothing in this Agreement nor the contract documents shall be deemed 
to constitute a partnership in law between City and Contractor, or any sub-contractor, to 
constitute either party as an agent of the other for any purpose; or to entitle either party to 
commit or bind the other in any manner unless expressly agreed upon in the contract documents.
19. Severability. If any part or provision of the contract documents is determined by any court to be 
illegal, invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the contract documents shall continue to be 
valid as to its other provisions and the remainder of the affected provision, unless it can be 
concluded from the circumstances that, in the absence of the provisions found to be null and void, 
the parties would not have entered into the contract documents. The parties shall use all 
reasonable efforts to replace any and all provisions or parts found to be null and void with 
provisions that are valid under the applicable law and come closest to their original intention.
20. Waiver. None of the following shall operate as a waiver of any provision of the contract documents, 
or of any power herein reserved by the City, or any right to damages herein provided: 1) inspection 
by the City or its authorized agents or representatives; 2) any order or certificate for payment, or any 
payment for, or acceptance of the whole or any part of the work by the City; 3) an extension of time; 
or 4) any position taken by the City or its authorized agents or representatives.
21. Warranty. Contractor warrants and guarantees that the materials and equipment provided shall be 
at least of the quality specified and new unless otherwise required or permitted by the contract 
documents, and, if no quality is specified, then the materials and equipment shall be of commercial 
grade, suitable for heavy public use in facilities of similar size and complexity, that the work 
performed hereunder will be free from defects, and that the work will conform to the requirements 
of the contract documents.
213 of 293

--- page 214 ---
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
214 of 293

--- page 215 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement between the CITY OF SAN MATEO and I & A Contractor, 
Inc. has been duly executed by the parties hereinabove named, as of the day and year first above 
written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Matt Fabry
Public Works Director
Date
Irene Avila
Its Authorized Agent
President
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus 
an additional corporate officer 
(i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who 
shall sign below.
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Linh P. Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Attachments:
Exhibit A:
Scope of Work
Exhibit B:
Insurance Requirements
215 of 293

--- page 216 ---
Exhibit A
Scope of Work
The scope of work shall be as provided for in the Contract Documents, and generally described as 
follows:
216 of 293

--- page 217 ---
Exhibit B
Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract, and for five years thereafter, 
insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise from or in 
connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the Contractor, his agents, 
representatives, employees, or subcontractors. 
MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 covering CGL 
on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property damage, bodily 
injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $5,000,000 per occurrence. If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this 
project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required 
occurrence limit.  
2. Automobile Liability:  Insurance Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), with 
limits no less than $5,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, 
and Employers’ Liability insurance with a limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease. 
4. Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) insurance utilizing an “All Risk” (Special Perils) coverage 
form, with limits equal to the completed value of the project and no coinsurance penalty 
provisions.
5. Surety Bonds as described below.
6. Professional Liability (if Design/Build), with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence or 
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.
7. Contractors’ Pollution Legal Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and Omissions 
(if project involves environmental hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or 
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.
If the contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above, 
the Entity requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or higher limits maintained by 
the contractor. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance 
and coverage shall be available to the Entity.
Self-Insured Retentions 
Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the Entity. At the option of the Entity, 
either: the contractor shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions 
as respects the Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; or the Contractor shall provide 
a financial guarantee satisfactory to the Entity guaranteeing payment of losses and related 
investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. The policy language shall provide, or be 
endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be satisfied by either the named insured or 
Entity.
Other Insurance Provisions 
217 of 293

--- page 218 ---
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
1. The Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional 
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed 
by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection 
with such work or operations and automobiles owned, leased, hired, or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to 
the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10, 
CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
2. For any claims related to this project, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the Entity, its officers, 
officials, employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the Entity, 
its officers, officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance and 
shall not contribute with it. 
3. Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, 
except with notice to the Entity.
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) Insurance 
Contractor may submit evidence of Builder’s Risk insurance in the form of Course of Construction 
coverage. Such coverage shall name the Entity as a loss payee as their interest may appear.
If the project does not involve new or major reconstruction, at the option of the Entity, an Installation 
Floater may be acceptable. For such projects, a Property Installation Floater shall be obtained that 
provides for the improvement, remodel, modification, alteration, conversion or adjustment to existing 
buildings, structures, processes, machinery and equipment.  The Property Installation Floater shall 
provide property damage coverage for any building, structure, machinery or equipment damaged, 
impaired, broken, or destroyed during the performance of the Work, including during transit, 
installation, and testing at the Entity’s site.
Claims Made Policies – (If at all possible avoid and require occurrence type CGL policies)
If any coverage required is written on a claims-made coverage form: 
1. The retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the execution date of the 
contract or the beginning of contract work.
2. Insurance must be maintained and evidence of insurance must be provided for at least five (5) 
years after completion of contract work. 
3. If coverage is canceled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made policy form 
with a retroactive date prior to the contract effective, or start of work date, the Contractor must 
purchase extended reporting period coverage for a minimum of five (5) years after completion 
of contract work. 
4. A copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the Entity for review. 
5. If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification/remediation, the Contractors 
Pollution Liability policy shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos exclusions. If the services 
involve mold identification/remediation, the Contractors Pollution Liability policy shall not 
contain a mold exclusion, and the definition of Pollution shall include microbial matter, including 
mold. 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current A.M. 
Best rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the Entity. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any insurer of Contractor may acquire 
from Contractor by virtue of the payment of any loss. Contractor agrees to obtain any endorsement 
218 of 293

--- page 219 ---
that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The Workers’ Compensation policy shall be 
endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of the Entity for all work performed by the Contractor, 
its employees, agents and subcontractors. 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the Entity with original Certificates of Insurance including all required 
amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by 
this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL policy listing all policy 
endorsements to Entity before work begins. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to 
the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s obligation to provide them.  The Entity reserves the 
right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements, 
required by these specifications, at any time.   
Subcontractors 
Contractor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all the 
requirements stated herein, and Contractor shall ensure that Entity is an additional insured on insurance 
required from subcontractors. For CGL coverage subcontractors shall provide coverage with a form at 
least as broad as CG 20 38 04 13.
Surety Bonds 
Contractor shall provide the following Surety Bonds:
1. Bid bond
2. Performance bond
3. Payment bond
4. Maintenance bond
The Payment Bond and the Performance Bond shall be in a sum equal to the contract price. If the 
Performance Bond provides for a one-year warranty a separate Maintenance Bond is not necessary.  If 
the warranty period specified in the contract is for longer than one year a Maintenance Bond equal to 
10% of the contract price is required.  Bonds shall be duly executed by a responsible corporate surety, 
authorized to issue such bonds in the State of California and secured through an authorized agent with 
an office in California.
Special Risks or Circumstances
Entity reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of the risk, 
prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other circumstances.
219 of 293

--- page 220 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671
File ID: 25-10231
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
August 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Construction Special Inspection Services for the Clean Water Program — Amendment 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 5 to the professional services agreement with Smith Emery San Francisco to provide as-needed 
construction special inspection services for various Clean Water Program projects; increase the compensation for the 
agreement by $150,000, for a revised total agreement amount of $3,500,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to 
execute the amendment in substantially the form presented and issue project-specific task orders under the agreement.
BACKGROUND:
The Clean Water Program (CWP) includes improvements to wastewater system capacity, flow management, and inflow 
and infiltration reduction to comply with regulatory requirements. Construction special inspection services provide as-
needed support for CWP projects, which include the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) Upgrade & Expansion; various 
new capacity relief sewers; sewer rehabilitations/repairs; and lift station improvements.
On February 22, 2022, the City Council approved a two-year professional services agreement with Smith Emery San 
Francisco (Smith Emery) to provide as-needed construction special inspection services for various projects under the CWP 
in an amount not to exceed $1,500,000, with three one-year options to extend the agreement at $250,000 per year at the 
City’s discretion. On August 21, 2023, the City Council approved Amendment No. 1 to increase the compensation by 
$850,000 to $2,350,000. On February 27, 2024, the Public Works Director approved Amendment No. 2, exercising the first 
option to extend the term to February 28, 2025, increasing the compensation amount by $250,000 for a total amount of 
$2,600,000. On July 14, 2024, the City Council approved Amendment No. 3 to increase the compensation by $500,000 to 
$3,100,000. On February 13, 2025, the Public Works Director approved Amendment No. 4, exercising the second option to 
extend the Agreement to February 28, 2026, and increasing the compensation amount by $250,000 for a new total of 
$3,350,000. 
During the past year, construction special inspection services for the Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and Expansion 
project exceeded staff’s projections for the services required for inspecting the installation of chemical pipes and aeration 
air pipes. In addition, the construction work is taking longer than originally projected due to changes in the field as well as 
the installation of pipes taking longer than anticipated. Smith Emery’s services are also required for other CWP projects 
entering construction. Smith Emery has been performing these construction special inspection services satisfactorily for 
the City. 
In order to complete the remaining inspections for the CWP projects, additional special inspection services from Smith 
Emery are required. The proposed Amendment No. 5 to the agreement with Smith Emery will add $150,000 to the 
agreement and bring the total agreement to $3,500,000. Staff believes this to be a reasonable budget increase for the 
scope of work and expertise required and recommends the approval of Amendment No. 5 to the agreement with Smith 
220 of 293

--- page 221 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Emery. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds budgeted in the various CWP Capital Improvement Program (CIP) projects requiring these 
services to fund this amendment. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The City prepared a Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) in accordance with the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (SCH No. 2015032006). The PEIR was certified by Council on June 6, 2016. In accordance 
with CEQA, the Final PEIR serves as the primary environmental compliance document for implementation of the Clean 
Water Program. The City prepared Addenda to the Final PEIR that were approved on July 16, 2018 (Addendum 1) and April 
15, 2019 (Addendum 2). This work is within the scope of the project evaluated in the PEIR and Addenda.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Amendment
STAFF CONTACT
Thomas Ruark, Senior Project Manager
truark@cityofsanmateo.org 
650-522-7280
Tom Williams, Engineering Manager
twilliams@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7307
221 of 293

--- page 222 ---
AMENDMENT NO. 5 TO THE AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND SMITH EMERY SAN FRANCISCO
 FOR CONSTRUCTION SPECIAL INSPECTION SERVICES FOR THE CLEAN WATER PROGRAM
($1,500,000 [Original Amount], $850,000 [Amendment No. 1], $250,000 [Amendment No. 2], $500,000 
[Amendment No. 3], $250,000 [Amendment No. 4], $150,000 [Amendment No. 5])
This Amendment is entered into this day of _______________, by and between the City of San 
Mateo, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California (“CITY”), and Smith 
Emery San Francisco (“CONSULTANT”).
WHEREAS, CITY and CONSULTANT entered into an Agreement for professional services 
(“Agreement”) on April 18, 2022; and
WHEREAS, on August 28, 2023, Amendment No. 1 was executed, which increased the 
compensation by $850,000, for a new total Agreement amount of $2,350,000; and
WHEREAS, on February 27, 2024, Amendment No. 2 was executed, which increased the 
compensation by $250,000, for a new total Agreement amount of $2,600,000, and extended the 
agreement term to February 28, 2025; and 
WHEREAS, on July 30, 2024, Amendment No. 3 was executed, which increased the compensation 
by $500,000, for a new total Agreement amount of $3,100,000; and
WHEREAS, on February 13, 2024, Amendment No. 4 was executed, which increased the 
compensation by $250,000, for a new total Agreement amount of $3,350,000, and extended the 
agreement term to February 28, 2026; and 
WHEREAS, CITY and CONSULTANT, wish to amend the Agreement to increase the total 
compensation amount by $150,000, for a new total Agreement amount of $3,500,000.
 NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows: 
1.
The first paragraph of Section 8 – “Payment” of the Agreement is amended as follows: 
“Payment shall be made by the CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a 
payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed. In 
consideration for the full performances, of services and any reimbursable expenses set forth 
in this Agreement, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee based on verified time and 
materials not to exceed $3,500,000 without prior written authorization. Requests for 
payments shall be itemized and correspond to the various items of work described in Exhibit 
A and shall be based on the rate and cost schedule set forth in Exhibit C.”
2.
Exhibit C “Cost Schedule” of the Agreement is amended as follows:
“The cost for the based contract shall be on a time and materials basis in accordance with 
the attached Schedule of Fees and Services for a cost not to exceed $3,500,000.00 (three 
million, five hundred thousand dollars). Three (3) one-year options shall be on a time and 
material basis not to exceed $250,000.00 (two hundred fifty thousand dollars per year per 
222 of 293

--- page 223 ---
option). Options to be issued at the discretion of the City. One of the three, one-year 
options for continuing these services at the discretion of the City remains.
3.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and SMITH EMERY SAN FRANCISCO have executed this 
Amendment No. 5 on ___________________
CITY OF SAN MATEO                                             
CONSULTANT
                                                                                                
Smith Emery San Francisco   
__________________________                             _________________________________
Matthew Fabry     
Date                                  By its Authorized Agent
Date 
Public Works Director
              James E. Partridge
                                                                                      President 
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
__________________________                             
Linh P. Nguyen   
 Date                                  
Assistant City Attorney
              
223 of 293

--- page 224 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  14
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4651
File ID: 25-10242
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
August 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Contracts with Contingency Component — Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive the report on Citywide contracts contingency fund expenditures for the period from August 1, 2017, through June 
30, 2025. 
BACKGROUND:
When presenting contracts to the City Council for an award, staff typically request approval of contingency funds and 
authorization to approve additional work or issue change orders up to the contingency amount. The contingency amount 
is generally 10 percent of the total contract. This approach provides flexibility and efficiency because projects may 
continue without returning to the City Council to approve change orders. The current report (Attachment 1) shows all 
active contracts Citywide with contingencies greater than $25,000 awarded from August 1, 2017, through June 30, 2025. 
Below is a summary table of active agreements by Department/Program: 
Department
Current Approved 
Agreement
Contingency 
Budget
Contingency Used
Percentage of 
Contingency Used
Clean Water Program (CWP)
 $647,360,019.89 
 $111,341,869.40 
 $58,270,050.49 
52%
Facilities 
 $7,228,453.95 
 $1,153,501.50 
 $613,825.08 
53%
Parks & Recreation
 $15,791,879.04 
 $2,287,325.73 
 $9,798.00 
>1%
Police
 $8,071,107.96 
 $200,000.00 
 $0.00 
0%
Public Works (non-CWP)
 $49,021,323.51 
 $8,557,905.00 
 $2,660,890.09 
31%
Grand Total
 $727,472,784.35 
 $123,540,601.63 
 $61,554,563.66 
50%
Attachment 2 shows completed projects with contingencies from this period. The contracts with contingency component 
report are provided to City Council on an annual fiscal year basis. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Since this is an update on previously awarded contracts, there is no budget impact. Sufficient funds have been allocated to 
each contract, including the contingency amounts.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
224 of 293

--- page 225 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Contingency Funding Status Worksheet
Att 2 – Completed Projects with Contingency 
STAFF CONTACT
Alonso Barahona, Management Analyst II
abarahona@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7334
Rose Velilla, Sr. Management Analyst
rvelilla@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7325
225 of 293

--- page 226 ---
ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚͬŝǀŝƐŝŽŶ
ĂƚĞƉƉƌŽǀĞĚǇ
ŝƚǇŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌͬ
sĞŶĚŽƌ
ĞƐĐƌŝƉƚŝŽŶ
ƵƌƌĞŶƚŽŶƚƌĂĐƚ
ŵŽƵŶƚƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ
ďǇŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵĚŐĞƚ
йŽĨdŽƚĂů
ŵŽƵŶƚ
ƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ
ϭƐƚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϮŶĚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϯƌĚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϰƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϱƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϲΘďŽǀĞK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
dŽƚĂůŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵƐĞĚ
йŽĨ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
hƐĞĚ
ZĞŵĂŝŶŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƉƉƌŽǆŝŵĂƚĞWƌŽũĞĐƚ
ŽŵƉůĞƚŝŽŶй;WDƚŽ
ŽŵƉůĞƚĞͿ
ĂŶĚEŽƚĞƐ
/WŶŐ
ϲͬϭϲͬϮϬϮϱ
͘>͘&ĂůŬ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ͕/ŶĐ͘
DĂƌŝŶĂƌĂŶĐŚWƵďůŝĐ>ŝďƌĂƌǇ
ZĞƐƚŽƌĂƚŝŽŶ
Ψϱ͕ϰϬϱ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϱϰϬ͕ϱϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϱϰϬ͕ϱϬϬ
Ϭй
/WŶŐ
ϲͬϮͬϮϬϮϱ
KΖ'ƌĂĚǇWĂǀŝŶŐ͕
/ŶĐ͘
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚ
ZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶͬ^ĞĂůWƌŽũĞĐƚϯͲ

Ψϭ͕ϴϳϭ͕ϲϮϮ ΨϮϴϭ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϱ͘Ϭϭй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϮϴϭ͕ϬϬϬ
Ϭй
/WŶŐ
ϰͬϳͬϮϬϮϱ
ƌŵĞƌEŽƌŵĂŶΘ
ƐƐŽĐŝĂƚĞƐ͕/ŶĐ͘
KŶͲ^ŝƚĞ&ƵĞůŝŶŐ^ƚĂƚŝŽŶĂŶĚ
ĂŶŽƉǇĚĚŝƚŝŽŶ
Ψϵϳϴ͕ϵϴϴ ΨϭϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϱ͘ϯϮй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϭϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϯϬй
/WŶŐ
ϰͬϳͬϮϬϮϱ
'^tŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ͕
/ŶĐ͘
ϰϭƐƚWůͬWĂĐŝĨŝĐůǀĚdƌĂƐŚ
ĂƉƚƵƌĞĞǀŝĐĞ
ΨϮϱϳ͕ϮϰϬ Ψϱϭ͕ϰϬϬ
ϭϵ͘ϵϴй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϱϭ͕ϰϬϬ
Ϭй
/WŶŐ
ϴͬϭϵͬϮϬϮϰ
^E'ΘƐƐŽĐŝĂƚĞƐ͕
/ŶĐ͘
^ƚĂĨĨƵŐŵĞŶƚĂƚŝŽŶ^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ
ΨϮϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϮϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϮϬ͕ϬϬϬ
/WŶŐ
ϴͬϭϵͬϮϬϮϰ
DĂƌŝŶĂ>ĂŶĚƐĐĂƉĞ͕
/ŶĐ
^ZϴϮͬ^ZϵϮ/ŶƚĞƌĐŚĂŶŐĞ
>ĂŶĚƐĐĂƉŝŶŐ/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐ
WƌŽũĞĐƚ
Ψϭ͕ϲϱϬ͕ϭϱϬ ΨϮϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϱ͘ϭϱй
ΨϴϮ͕ϱϮϲ Ψϵ͕ϯϰϳ Ψϰ͕Ϭϲϱ
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϵϱ͕ϵϯϴ
ϯϴй
Ψϭϱϰ͕ϬϲϮ
ϲϱй
/WŶŐ
ϳͬϭϱͬϮϬϮϰ
t͘Z͘&ŽƌĚĞ
ƐƐŽĐŝĂƚĞƐ͕/ŶĐ͘
ŽůƵŵďŝĂͬƌǇƐƚĂů^ƉƌŝŶŐƐ
^ƚŽƌŵƌĂŝŶ/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐ
ΨϳϮϴ͕ϲϱϰ Ψϭϰϲ͕ϬϬϬ
ϮϬ͘Ϭϰй
Ψϰ͕ϯϬϰ͘Ϭϳ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϰ͕ϯϬϰ
ϯй
Ψϭϰϭ͕ϲϵϲ
ϴϱй
/WŶŐ
ϳͬϭϱͬϮϬϮϰ
'͘ŽƌƚŽůŽƚƚŽΘ
ŽŵƉĂŶǇ͕/ŶĐ͘
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶ
WĂĐŬĂŐĞϱͲ
Ψϰ͕ϯϭϰ͕ϱϭϲ Ψϲϰϴ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϱ͘ϬϮй
Ψϵ͕ϮϱϬ ΨϭϬ͕ϱϴϲ Ψϯ͕ϵϳϴ ΨϴϮ͕ϴϵϰ͘ϵϴ Ψϳϴ͕ϵϮϮ
ΨͲ Ψϭϴϱ͕ϲϯϭ
Ϯϵй
ΨϰϲϮ͕ϯϲϵ
ϵϱй
/WŶŐ
ϲͬϭϳͬϮϬϮϰ
^ĐŚĂĂĨΘtŚĞĞůĞƌ
^ƚŽƌŵƌĂŝŶDĂƐƚĞƌWůĂŶ
hƉĚĂƚĞ
Ψϭ͕ϭϬϰ͕ϭϵϬ ΨϭϭϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϵϲй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϭϭϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϱϬй
/WŶŐ
ϱͬϮϬͬϮϬϮϰ
EŝĐŚŽůƐŽŶƐƵůƚŝŶŐ
ŶŐŝŶĞĞƌƐ͕/ŶĐ͘
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶ
WĂĐŬĂŐĞϲ
ΨϴϮϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϴϮ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϴϮ͕ϬϬϬ
ϲϬй
/WŶŐ
ϱͬϮϬͬϮϬϮϰ
,ZŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ͕
/ŶĐ͘
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ƵƌĨĂĐĞdƌĞĂƚŵĞŶƚ
WĂĐŬĂŐĞƐϰͲϭĂŶĚϰͲϮ
Ψϱϴϰ͕ϬϬϬ Ψϱϴ͕ϰϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨϮϱ͕ϴϭϳ͘ϬϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϮϱ͕ϴϭϳ
ϰϰй
ΨϯϮ͕ϱϴϯ
ϲϬй
/WŶŐ
ϰͬϭϱͬϮϬϮϰ
hŶŝƚĞĚ^ƚŽƌŵ
tĂƚĞƌ͕/ŶĐ͘
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ŵĂůůdƌĂƐŚ
Ψϲϵϳ͕Ϯϳϳ ΨϰϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϲϭ͘ϲϳй
Ψϭ͕ϳϰϮ Ψϭϱϯ͕ϱϴϲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϭϱϱ͕ϯϮϴ
ϯϲй
ΨϮϳϰ͕ϲϳϮ
Ϭй
/WŶŐ
ϮͬϮϬͬϮϬϮϰ
^ŝĞŐĞůΘ^ƚƌĂŝŶ
ƌĐŚŝƚĞĐƚƐ
DĂƌŝŶĂ>ŝďƌĂƌǇ^ƚƌƵĐƚƵƌĂů
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐWƌŽũĞĐƚ
ΨϵϬϯ͕ϱϱϭ ΨϵϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϵϲй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϵϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϲϬй
/WŶŐ
ϴͬϮϭͬϮϬϮϯ
ĞǁďĞƌƌǇ
ŶŐŝŶĞĞƌƐ͕/ŶĐ͘
ƌŝĚŐĞDĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚWƌŽŐƌĂŵ
ĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚʹŐƌĞĞŵĞŶƚ
ΨϮϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϮϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬй
/WŶŐ
ϲͬϱͬϮϬϮϯ
DE^ŶŐŝŶĞĞƌƐ͕
/ŶĐ͘
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶ
WĂĐŬĂŐĞϱʹŐƌĞĞŵĞŶƚ
Ψϱϴϱ͕ϬϬϬ Ψϱϴ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϵϭй
Ψϭϰ͕ϭϴϬ ΨϮϰ͕ϵϭϴ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϯϵ͕Ϭϵϴ
ϲϳй
Ψϭϴ͕ϵϬϮ
ϭϬϬй
/WŶŐ
ϲͬϱͬϮϬϮϯ
DĐ'ƵŝƌĞĂŶĚ
,ĞƐƚĞƌ
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚ
ZĞĐŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶWŚĂƐĞϰʹ
ŐƌĞĞŵĞŶƚĂŶĚƵĚŐĞƚ
dƌĂŶƐĨĞƌ
Ψϲ͕Ϯϱϵ͕ϯϱϴ Ψϯ͕ϭϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϱϬ͘Ϭϭй
Ψϵ͕ϳϲϭ Ψϴ͕ϳϰϬ Ψϭϲϴ͕ϳϮϴ Ψϭ͕ϲϱϴ͕ϳϴϭ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϭ͕ϴϰϲ͕ϬϬϵ
ϱϵй
Ψϭ͕Ϯϴϯ͕ϵϵϭ
ϱϬй
^ddh^K&KE'K/E'KEdZd^t/d,KEd/E'Ez&hE^ƚŚƌŽƵŐŚϲͬϯϬͬϮϬϮϱ
dŚŝƐƐƵŵŵĂƌǇĚŽĞƐŶŽƚŝŶĐůƵĚĞƉƌŽũĞĐƚƐǁŝƚŚĐŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐŝĞƐƵŶĚĞƌΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ͘EĞŐĂƚŝǀĞŽƌŶŽͲĐŽƐƚĐŚĂŶŐĞŽƌĚĞƌƐĚŽŶŽƚŝŵƉĂĐƚƚŚĞĐŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇĨƵŶĚ͘
226 of 293

--- page 227 ---
ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚͬŝǀŝƐŝŽŶ
ĂƚĞƉƉƌŽǀĞĚǇ
ŝƚǇŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌͬ
sĞŶĚŽƌ
ĞƐĐƌŝƉƚŝŽŶ
ƵƌƌĞŶƚŽŶƚƌĂĐƚ
ŵŽƵŶƚƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ
ďǇŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵĚŐĞƚ
йŽĨdŽƚĂů
ŵŽƵŶƚ
ƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ
ϭƐƚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϮŶĚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϯƌĚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϰƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϱƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϲΘďŽǀĞK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
dŽƚĂůŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵƐĞĚ
йŽĨ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
hƐĞĚ
ZĞŵĂŝŶŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƉƉƌŽǆŝŵĂƚĞWƌŽũĞĐƚ
ŽŵƉůĞƚŝŽŶй;WDƚŽ
ŽŵƉůĞƚĞͿ
ĂŶĚEŽƚĞƐ
/WŶŐ
ϳͬϭϴͬϮϬϮϮ
,ZŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ͕
/ŶĐͬ͘tƌĞĐŽ
,ŝŐŚsŽůƚĂŐĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚůŝŐŚƚ
ŽŶǀĞƌƐŝŽŶ;WŚĂƐĞϰͿĞƐŝŐŶ
^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ
ΨϮϱϵ͕ϰϬϬ ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϲϰй
Ψϳ͕ϳϯϰ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϳ͕ϳϯϰ
ϯϭй
Ψϭϳ͕Ϯϲϲ
ϲϱй
/WŶŐ
ϱͬϭϲͬϮϬϮϮ
ŝŐŐƐĂƌĚŽǌĂ
ƐƐŽĐŝĂƚĞƐ
ĞƌŵƵĚĂƌŝĚŐĞZĞƉůĂĐĞŵĞŶƚͲ
ĞƐŝŐŶ
Ψϭ͕ϬϯϮ͕ϴϳϰ ΨϭϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϰ͘ϱϮй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϭϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵϱй
/WŶŐ
ϭͬϯͬϮϬϮϮ
EŝĐŚŽůƐŽŶƐƵůƚŝŶŐ
ŶŐŝŶĞĞƌƐ͕/ŶĐ͘
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚ
ZĞĐŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ͕WŚĂƐĞƐϰĂŶĚ
ϱ
Ψϭ͕ϰϲϬ͕ϬϬϬ Ψϭϰϲ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϬϬй
Ψϳϲ͕ϱϬϬ Ψϰϯ͕ϱϬϬ ΨϮϲ͕ϬϬϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϭϰϲ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬϬй
ΨϬ
ϲϬй
/WŶŐ
ϵͬϯͬϮϬϭϵ
<&ŶŐŝŶĞĞƌ
ůĂŵŝŶŽΛZdϵϮ
>ĂŶĚƐĐĂƉŝŶŐ/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐ
ΨϯϮϳ͕ϱϮϬ ΨϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϭϲй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϲϱй
/WŶŐ
ϭϮͬϯͬϮϬϭϴ
^ĐŚĂĂĨΘtŚĞĞůĞƌ
ŽǇŽƚĞWŽŝŶƚĂŶĚWŽƉůĂƌ
ǀĞŶƵĞWƵŵƉ^ƚĂƚŝŽŶƐĞƐŝŐŶ Ψϭ͕ϭϯϭ͕ϬϳϬ ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϰ͘ϰϮй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵϵй
tW
ϱͬϭϵͬϮϬϮϱ
ƌĂŶĚŶĞƌŐǇ
^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐŽĨ
ttdWŝŐĞƐƚŽƌϮŽĂƚŝŶŐ
WƌŽũĞĐƚ
ΨϰϬϲ͕ϴϴϭ ΨϴϮ͕ϬϬϬ
ϮϬ͘ϭϱй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϴϮ͕ϬϬϬ
ϰϬйй
tW
ϭͬϮϭͬϮϬϮϱ
ƌŝƐƚŽůĂ͕>>
tĂƐƚĞǁĂƚĞƌdƌĞĂƚŵĞŶƚWůĂŶƚ
ŝŐĞƐƚĞƌϮůĞĂŶŝŶŐ
Ψϯϲϰ͕ϭϬϬ Ψϯϲ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϴϵй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϯϲ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵϵй
tW
ϭͬϭϯͬϮϬϮϱ
tĞƐƚůĂŶĚ
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌƐ
ĂƐŝŶ^ĂŶŝƚĂƌǇ^ĞǁĞƌ
ZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶWƌŽũĞĐƚ/ŶƐŝĚĞ
ĞĂĐŚ
Ψϱ͕ϵϬϯ͕ϴϮϮ ΨϵϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϱ͘Ϯϰй
Ψϯϱ͕ϳϳϱ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϯϱ͕ϳϳϱ
ϰй
Ψϴϲϰ͕ϮϮϱ
ϮϬй
tW
ϭͬϭϲͬϮϬϮϰ
tĞƐƚůĂŶĚ
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌƐ
ĂƐŝŶ^ĂŶŝƚĂƌǇ^ĞǁĞƌ
ZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶWƌŽũĞĐƚ
Ψϰ͕ϭϯϭ͕Ϯϵϭ ΨϱϳϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϯ͘ϴϬй
ΨϯϬ͕ϱϭϬ Ψϴ͕ϬϬϬ Ψϭϳϳ͕ϱϬϲ Ψϭϰ͕ϳϵϴ ΨϭϬϴ͕ϯϳϴ ΨϮϲ͕ϬϬϬ Ψϯϲϱ͕ϭϵϮ
ϲϰй
ΨϮϬϰ͕ϴϬϴ
ϴϱй
tW
ϭϭͬϮϬͬϮϬϮϯ
:DŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ͕
/ŶĐ͘
ůĂŵŝŶŽZĞĂůŽŶǀĞǇĂŶĐĞ
^ǇƐƚĞŵ/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐ
ΨϭϮ͕ϵϬϳ͕ϰϮϳ ΨϮ͕ϯϳϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϴ͘ϯϲй
Ψϵ͕ϭϳϬ ΨϭϮϲ͕ϳϴϵ Ψϭ͕ϳϴϱ ΨϭϲϬ͕ϴϮϵ Ψϴϰ͕ϳϱϳ Ψϲϳϲ͕ϵϵϮ Ψϭ͕ϬϲϬ͕ϯϮϭ
ϰϱй
Ψϭ͕ϯϬϵ͕ϲϳϵ
ϰϬй
tW
ϭϭͬϲͬϮϬϮϯ
'^tŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ͕
/ŶĐ͘
ttdWdƌĂŶƐĨĞƌWƵŵƉƐ
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚWƌŽũĞĐƚ
ΨϴϭϬ͕ϰϬϬ ΨϭϲϮ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϵ͘ϵϵй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϭϲϮ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵϬй
tW
ϳͬϭϳͬϮϬϮϯ
͛ƌĐǇΘ,ĂƌƚǇ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ͕/ŶĐ͘
ĂƐŝŶ^ĂŶŝƚĂƌǇ^ĞǁĞƌ
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐWƌŽũĞĐƚʹ
ŐƌĞĞŵĞŶƚ
Ψϲ͕ϴϰϴ͕Ϯϭϵ Ψϭ͕Ϯϵϳ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϴ͘ϵϰй
ΨϭϯϬ͕Ϭϯϭ Ψϰ͕ϲϳϰ Ψϳ͕ϭϬϬ ΨϭϬ͕ϳϴϵ ΨϮ͕ϳϲϰ ΨϮϬϵ͕Ϯϭϱ Ψϯϲϰ͕ϱϳϯ
Ϭй
ΨϵϯϮ͕ϰϮϳ
ϵϱй
tW
ϳͬϭϳͬϮϬϮϯ
,ZŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ͕
/ŶĐ͘
ttdWEƵƚƌŝĞŶƚZĞŵŽǀĂůĂŶĚ
tĞƚtĞĂƚŚĞƌ&ůŽǁ
DĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚhƉŐƌĂĚĞĂŶĚ
ǆƉĂŶƐŝŽŶͲŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ
^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ ĚƵƌŝŶŐ ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
Ψϭϯ͕ϭϰϯ͕ϰϮϳ
Ψϯ͕ϯϰϰ͕ϬϬϬ
Ϯϱ͘ϰϰй
Ψϰϰ͕ϲϮϭ ΨϰϮ͕ϭϲϯ Ψϭϭ͕ϳϵϮ ΨϵϴϬ͕ϭϬϯ ΨϵϬϯ͕ϲϬϵ ΨϮϴϰ͕ϬϱϮ ΨϮ͕Ϯϲϲ͕ϯϰϬ
ϲϴй
Ψϭ͕Ϭϳϳ͕ϲϲϬ
ϵϱй
tW
ϱͬϭϱͬϮϬϮϯ
DŽƵŶƚĂŝŶĂƐĐĂĚĞ
tĂƐƚĞǁĂƚĞƌdƌĞĂƚŵĞŶƚWůĂŶƚ
/ŵŵĞĚŝĂƚĞĐƚŝŽŶWƌŽũĞĐƚƐ͕
WĂĐŬĂŐĞ///
Ψϭϭ͕ϯϰϰ͕ϲϵϲ ΨϮ͕ϮϳϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϮϬ͘Ϭϭй
Ψϱϴ͕Ϭϲϳ Ψϭϴ͕ϵϭϬ Ψϭϯ͕Ϯϱϵ ΨϰϮϭ͕ϴϲϳ Ψϭϲϵ͕ϲϴϬ ΨϮϯϲ͕ϬϬϴ Ψϵϭϳ͕ϳϵϭ
ϰϬй
Ψϭ͕ϯϱϮ͕ϮϬϵ
ϴϱй
tW
ϴͬϭϱͬϮϬϮϮ
,ĞƌĐZĞŶƚĂůƐ͕/ŶĐ͘
dĞŵƉŽƌĂƌǇ^ƚĂŶĚďǇ'ĞŶĞƌĂƚŽƌ
ĨŽƌĂůĞǀĞŶƵĞWƵŵƉ^ƚĂƚŝŽŶ
hƉŐƌĂĚĞ
Ψϳϴϭ͕ϳϯϮ ΨϯϬϮ͕ϯϵϲ
ϯϴ͘ϲϴй
ΨϭϬϳ͕ϭϳϬ ΨϴϬ͕Ϭϴϭ Ψϰϯ͕ϴϴϴ Ψϰϯ͕ϴϴϴ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϮϳϱ͕ϬϮϳ
ϵϭй
ΨϮϳ͕ϯϲϵ
ϵϵй
tW
ϯͬϮϭͬϮϬϮϮ
^ĐŚĂĂĨΘtŚĞĞůĞƌ
ĂƐƚ^ĂŶDĂƚĞŽ^ĂŶŝƚĂƌǇ
^ĞǁĞƌ>ŝĨƚ^ƚĂƚŝŽŶ
ZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶWƌŽũĞĐƚ
ΨϮ͕ϯϵϲ͕ϰϯϭ ΨϭϬϴ͕ϲϮϲ
ϰ͘ϱϯй
ΨϮϭ͕ϰϮϲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϮϭ͕ϰϮϲ
ϮϬй
Ψϴϳ͕ϮϬϬ
ϵϬй
227 of 293

--- page 228 ---
ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚͬŝǀŝƐŝŽŶ
ĂƚĞƉƉƌŽǀĞĚǇ
ŝƚǇŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌͬ
sĞŶĚŽƌ
ĞƐĐƌŝƉƚŝŽŶ
ƵƌƌĞŶƚŽŶƚƌĂĐƚ
ŵŽƵŶƚƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ
ďǇŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵĚŐĞƚ
йŽĨdŽƚĂů
ŵŽƵŶƚ
ƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ
ϭƐƚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϮŶĚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϯƌĚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϰƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϱƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϲΘďŽǀĞK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
dŽƚĂůŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵƐĞĚ
йŽĨ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
hƐĞĚ
ZĞŵĂŝŶŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƉƉƌŽǆŝŵĂƚĞWƌŽũĞĐƚ
ŽŵƉůĞƚŝŽŶй;WDƚŽ
ŽŵƉůĞƚĞͿ
ĂŶĚEŽƚĞƐ
tW
ϮͬϳͬϮϬϮϮ
:DŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ͕
/ŶĐ͘
ĞůĂǁĂƌĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞůŝĞĨ^ĞǁĞƌ
WƌŽũĞĐƚ
Ψϴ͕ϰϰϴ͕ϯϳϱ Ψϭ͕ϲϵϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϮϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨϮϵ͕ϵϬϵ Ψϳϯ͕ϲϰϳ ΨϭϬϰ͕ϱϭϱ Ψϯϲ͕ϵϲϲ Ψϯϭ͕ϳϰϭ Ψϭ͕ϯϬϳ͕ϰϵϯ Ψϭ͕ϱϴϰ͕Ϯϳϭ
ϵϰй
ΨϭϬϱ͕ϳϮϵ
ϵϵй
tW
ϭͬϯͬϮϬϮϮ
ŶƚĞƌƉƌŝƐĞ
ƵƚŽŵĂƚŝŽŶ
ttdW^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽŶƚƌŽůΘ
ĂƚĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶ^ǇƐƚĞŵ
DĞƌŐĞƌWƌŽũĞĐƚĂŶĚ
ŽůůĞĐƚŝŽŶƐ^ǇƐƚĞŵ
Ψϭϵϵ͕ϭϱϲ ΨϭϭϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϱϱ͘Ϯϯй
Ψϱϲ͕ϮϱϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϱϲ͕ϮϱϬ
ϱϭй
Ψϱϯ͕ϳϱϬ
ϵϱй
tW
ϴͬϭϲͬϮϬϮϭ
^ƚĂŶƚĞĐŽŶƐƵůƚŝŶŐ
^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ͕/ŶĐ͘
ĂƐŝŶƐϮĂŶĚϯŽůůĞĐƚŝŽŶ
^ǇƐƚĞŵ/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐ
Ψϭϲ͕ϵϰϬ͕ϱϳϴ ΨϯϮϮ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭ͘ϵϬй
Ψϵϭ͕ϱϬϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϵϭ͕ϱϬϬ
Ϯϴй
ΨϮϯϬ͕ϱϬϬ
ϴϱй
tW
ϴͬϭϲͬϮϬϮϭ
ŶĚĞƌƐŽŶWĂĐŝĨŝĐ
ŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ͕/ŶĐ͘
hŶĚĞƌŐƌŽƵŶĚ&ůŽǁ
ƋƵĂůŝǌĂƚŝŽŶ^ǇƐƚĞŵͲ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶŽŶƚƌĂĐƚ
Ψϲϰ͕ϳϲϯ͕ϯϮϲ Ψϱ͕ϲϳϭ͕ϬϬϬ
ϴ͘ϳϲй
Ψϯ͕ϲϰϱ Ψϭϵ͕ϮϱϬ Ψ;ϱϮ͕ϯϯϵͿ
ΨͲ Ψϰϱ͕ϰϲϲ Ψϱ͕ϱϯϵ͕ϳϲϬ Ψϱ͕ϲϬϴ͕ϭϮϭ
ϵϵй
ΨϲϮ͕ϴϳϵ
ϵϴй
tW
ϭϭͬϭϲͬϮϬϮϬ
,ϮDͬ:ĂĐŽďƐ
ůĞĂŶtĂƚĞƌWƌŽŐƌĂŵ;tWͿ
WƌŽŐƌĂŵDĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ
ϳ͕ϰϰϳ͕ϭϱϭ
Ψ
Ψϭ͕ϰϴϳ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϵ͘ϵϳй
Ψϭ͕ϯϰϳ͕ϳϰϵ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϭ͕ϯϰϳ͕ϳϰϵ
ϵϭй
Ψϭϯϵ͕Ϯϱϭ
ϴϱй
tW
ϵͬϮϭͬϮϬϮϬ
^ƵŶĚƚ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ͕/ŶĐ͘
ttdWEƵƚƌŝĞŶƚZĞŵŽǀĂůĂŶĚ
tĞƚtĞĂƚŚĞƌDĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ
hƉŐƌĂĚĞĂŶĚǆƉĂŶƐŝŽŶͲ
'DWϯ
Ψϰϭϴ͕ϭϮϬ͕ϯϮϭ Ψϯϴ͕ϵϴϲ͕ϵϭϬ
ϵ͘ϯϮй
Ψϭ͕ϱϴϯ͕ϵϲϰ ΨϲϬ͕ϲϮϮ Ψϱϲϴ͕Ϯϴϰ Ψϭ͕ϭϵϰ͕ϯϰϰ ΨϮ͕Ϯϵϳ͕ϵϲϵ ΨϮϴ͕ϲϮϰ͕ϯϬϱ Ψϯϰ͕ϯϮϵ͕ϰϴϴ
ϴϴй
Ψϰ͕ϲϱϳ͕ϰϮϮ
ϵϱй
tW
ϭϬͬϳͬϮϬϭϵ
ŶǀŝůƵŝůĚĞƌƐ͕/ŶĐ͘
ĂƐŝŶϮΘϯŽůůĞĐƚŝŽŶ^ǇƐƚĞŵ
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐͬĂůĞǀĞ
WƵŵƉ^ƚĂƚŝŽŶhƉŐƌĂĚĞ
ΨϮϲ͕ϵϭϮ͕ϲϱϳ
ϰϳ͕ϳϰϬ͕ϰϴϴ
Ψ
ϭϳϳ͘ϯϵй
Ψϯϰ͕ϯϯϲ Ψϭϰϯ͕ϭϲϭ Ψϰϭϯ͕ϵϵϮ Ψϯϵ͕ϵϳϯ ΨϰϮϵ͕ϰϯϯ Ψϱ͕ϳϬϵ͕ϳϲϭ Ψϲ͕ϳϳϬ͕ϲϱϲ
ϭϰй
ΨϰϬ͕ϵϲϵ͕ϴϯϮ
ϵϴй
tW
ϱͬϮϬͬϮϬϭϵ
<ƵƚǌŵĂŶŶΘ
ƐƐŽĐŝĂƚĞƐ͕/ŶĐ
ttdWEƵƚƌŝĞŶƚZĞŵŽǀĂůĂŶĚ
tĞƚtĞĂƚŚĞƌDĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ
hƉŐƌĂĚĞĂŶĚǆƉĂŶƐŝŽŶͲ
ƵŝůĚŝŶŐWůĂŶZĞǀŝĞǁΘ
/ŶƐƉĞĐƚŝŽŶ
ΨϵϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϳϱй
Ψϰϲ͕ϱϬϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϰϲ͕ϱϬϬ
ϰϳй
Ψϱϯ͕ϱϬϬ
ϵϵй
tW
ϯͬϰͬϮϬϭϵ
^ƚĂŶƚĞĐ
ttdW/W//ͲĞƐŝŐŶΘ
ŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ
ΨϮ͕ϭϮϲ͕ϰϬϯ Ψϴϳ͕ϬϬϬ
ϰ͘Ϭϵй
Ψϳϵ͕ϴϬϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϳϵ͕ϴϬϬ
ϵϮй
Ψϳ͕ϮϬϬ
ϵϵй
tW
ϭͬϮϮͬϮϬϭϵ
,ZŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ͕
/ŶĐ͘
tĂƐƚĞǁĂƚĞƌdƌĞĂƚŵĞŶƚWůĂŶƚ
EƵƚƌŝĞŶƚZĞŵŽǀĂůĂŶĚtĞƚ
tĞĂƚŚĞƌ&ůŽǁDĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ
hƉŐƌĂĚĞĂŶĚǆƉĂŶƐŝŽŶͲ
ĞƐŝŐŶ
ΨϮϱ͕ϳϰϰ͕ϴϮϰ ΨϮ͕ϱϳϱ͕ϴϮϯ
ϭϬ͘Ϭϭй
ΨϭϲϮ͕ϵϰϬ Ψϭ͕ϰϰϬ͕ϴϴϮ Ψϭϲϴ͕ϬϬϭ ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϮϴϴ͕ϯϱϳ Ψϰϲϱ͕ϱϰϰ ΨϮ͕ϱϳϱ͕ϳϮϰ
ϭϬϬй
Ψϵϵ
ϵϵй
tW
ϭͬϳͬϮϬϭϵ
DǇĞƌƐĂŶĚ^ŽŶƐ
ttdW/W//ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
Ψϭϰ͕ϯϰϲ͕ϯϳϮ Ψϵϯϰ͕ϬϬϬ
ϲ͘ϱϭй
Ψϳϯ͕ϱϴϮ ΨϱϮ͕ϯϲϬ ΨϰϮ͕Ϯϯϴ Ψϯϭ͕ϴϲϴ ΨϰϮ͕Ϭϳϭ ΨϮϭϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϰϱϮ͕ϭϭϵ
ϰϴй
Ψϰϴϭ͕ϴϴϭ
ϵϵй
tW
ϴͬϮϭͬϮϬϭϳ
^ƚĂŶƚĞĐŽŶƐƵůƚŝŶŐ
^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ͕/ŶĐ͘
ttdW/W//ĞƐŝŐŶ
Ψϴϳϲ͕ϬϬϬ Ψϴϳ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϵϯй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϴϳ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵϵй
tW
ϮͬϮϰͬϮϬϭϳ
^ĐŚĂĂĨΘtŚĞĞůĞƌ
ĂƐƚ^ĂŶDĂƚĞŽ^ĂŶŝƚĂƌǇ
^ĞǁĞƌ>ŝĨƚ^ƚĂƚŝŽŶ
ZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶWƌŽũĞĐƚ
ΨϮ͕ϯϵϲ͕ϰϯϭ ΨϭϬϴ͕ϲϮϲ
ϰ͘ϱϯй
ΨϮϭ͕ϰϮϲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϮϭ͕ϰϮϲ
ϮϬй
Ψϴϳ͕ϮϬϬ
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϲͬϭϲͬϮϬϮϱ
WŝEĂƚŝŽŶĂů
^ĞƌǀŝĐĞ'ƌŽƵƉ͕/ŶĐ͘
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ&ŝƌĞ͕>ŝĨĞĂŶĚ^ĂĨĞƚǇ
/ŶƐƉĞĐƚŝŽŶdĞƐƚŝŶŐΘ
DĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞ^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ
Ψϱϵϭ͕ϯϳϱ ΨϲϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϭϱй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϲϬ͕ϬϬϬ
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϮͬϯͬϮϬϮϱ
ZĞƐƚŽƌĂƚŝŽŶ
DĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ
ŽŵƉĂŶǇ
WŽƉůĂƌƌĞĞŬdĞŶĂŶƚ
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐ
Ψϭ͕ϬϳϮ͕ϲϰϵ Ψϭϭϱ͕ϯϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϳϱй
Ψϭϭϯ͕ϬϬϴ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϭϭϯ͕ϬϬϴ
ϵϴй
ΨϮ͕ϮϵϮ
228 of 293

--- page 229 ---
ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚͬŝǀŝƐŝŽŶ
ĂƚĞƉƉƌŽǀĞĚǇ
ŝƚǇŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌͬ
sĞŶĚŽƌ
ĞƐĐƌŝƉƚŝŽŶ
ƵƌƌĞŶƚŽŶƚƌĂĐƚ
ŵŽƵŶƚƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ
ďǇŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵĚŐĞƚ
йŽĨdŽƚĂů
ŵŽƵŶƚ
ƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ
ϭƐƚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϮŶĚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϯƌĚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϰƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϱƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϲΘďŽǀĞK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
dŽƚĂůŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵƐĞĚ
йŽĨ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
hƐĞĚ
ZĞŵĂŝŶŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƉƉƌŽǆŝŵĂƚĞWƌŽũĞĐƚ
ŽŵƉůĞƚŝŽŶй;WDƚŽ
ŽŵƉůĞƚĞͿ
ĂŶĚEŽƚĞƐ
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϱͬϮϬͬϮϬϮϰ
&^ƚƌƵĐƚƵƌĂů
ŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ͕/ŶĐ͘
ϮŶĚΘZ'ĂƌĂŐĞ^ƚƌƵĐƚƵƌĂů
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚ
ΨϭϱϮ͕ϮϰϬ Ψϰϱ͕ϮϬϮ
Ϯϵ͘ϲϵй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϰϱ͕ϮϬϮ
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϰͬϭϱͬϮϬϮϰ
ŶŐĞůĞƐ
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌ͕/ŶĐ
^ŚŽƌĞǀŝĞǁWĂƌŬZĞƐƚƌŽŽŵ
ZĞŵŽĚĞů
Ψϯϳϵ͕ϯϴϳ Ψϱϳ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϱ͘ϬϮй
Ψϭϵ͕ϳϵϱ Ψϭϰ͕ϰϰϵ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϯϰ͕Ϯϰϰ
ϲϬй
ΨϮϮ͕ϳϱϲ
ϵϵй
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϮͬϮϬͬϮϬϮϰ
KŶWŽŝŶƚ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
ϮŶĚĂŶĚůĂŵŝŶŽĞŶƚƌĂů
'ĂƌĂŐĞůĞǀĂƚŽƌ
DŽĚĞƌŶŝǌĂƚŝŽŶ
ΨϴϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ Ψϭϲϲ͕ϬϬϬ
ϮϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϭϲϲ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬй
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϭͬϭϲͬϮϬϮϰ
ŶŐĞůĞƐ
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌ͕/ŶĐ
ϮŶĚĂŶĚůĂŵŝŶŽ'ĂƌĂŐĞ
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐWŚĂƐĞϭ
Ψϭ͕ϰϰϲ͕ϲϵϰ ΨϭϴϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϮ͘ϰϰй
ΨϭϴϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϭϴϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬϬй
ΨϬ
ϴϱй
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϭϭͬϮϬͬϮϬϮϯ
EĞǁƚŽŶ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶΘ
DĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ͕/ŶĐ͘
<ŝŶŐZĞĐƌĞĂƚŝŽŶĞŶƚĞƌEĞǁ
&ŝƌĞůĂƌŵ^ǇƐƚĞŵ
ΨϰϬϱ͕ϳϲϮ͘ϳϰ ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϮ͘ϯϮй
Ψϰϵ͕ϳϬϳ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϰϵ͕ϳϬϳ
ϵϵй
ΨϮϵϯ
ϵϱй
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϵͬϭϴͬϮϬϮϯ
ŶŐĞůĞƐ
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌ͕/ŶĐ
ĞŶƚƌĂůWĂƌŬdĞŶŶŝƐŽƵƌƚ
'ĂƌĂŐĞ^ƚƌƵĐƚƵƌĂů
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐʹŽŶƚƌĂĐƚ
ΨϮϰϭ͕ϴϳϭ Ψϭϭϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϰϳ͘ϱϱй
Ψϱ͕ϭϲϱ ΨϭϬϵ͕ϴϯϱ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϭϭϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬϬй
ΨϬ
ϵϱй
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϵͬϱͬϮϬϮϯ
D,ƌĐŚŝƚĞĐƚƐ͕
/ŶĐ
ϮŶĚΘůĂŵŝŶŽZĞĂů'ĂƌĂŐĞ
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐʹŐƌĞĞŵĞŶƚ
ϴϱϴ͕Ϯϲϯ
Ψ
ΨϴϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϯϮй
ΨϮϭ͕ϰϬϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϮϭ͕ϰϬϬ
Ϯϳй
Ψϱϴ͕ϲϬϬ
ϱϬй
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϯͬϮϬͬϮϬϮϯ
EĞǁƚŽŶ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶΘ
DĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ͕/ŶĐ͘
DĂƌƚŝŶ>ƵƚŚĞƌ<ŝŶŐ
ŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇĞŶƚĞƌ^ŵĂůů
<ŝƚĐŚĞŶZĞŵŽĚĞů
ϭϰϵ͕ϭϮϳ
Ψ
ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϲ͘ϳϲй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϯϱй
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϭϬͬϯͬϮϬϮϮ
EĞǁƚŽŶ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶΘ
DĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ͕/ŶĐ͘
ĂƐĂŶŽǀĂWĂƌŬZĞƐƚƌŽŽŵ
ZĞŵŽĚĞů
ΨϮϵϴ͕Ϯϱϯ ΨϭϮϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϰϬ͘Ϯϯй
Ψϲ͕ϴϬϰ Ψϯϳ͕ϳϮϱ Ψϯϯ͕ϵϯϳ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϳϴ͕ϰϲϳ
ϲϱй
Ψϰϭ͕ϱϯϯ
ϯϬй
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϵͬϭϵͬϮϬϮϮ
d<ůĞǀĂƚŽƌ
ŽƌƉŽƌĂƚŝŽŶ
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞůĞǀĂƚŽƌƐĂŶĚ>ŝĨƚƐ
DĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞ^ĞƌǀŝĐĞ
ΨϱϵϬ͕ϬϬϰ Ψϭϭϴ͕ϬϬϬ
ϮϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϭϭϴ͕ϬϬϬ
KŶŐŽŝŶŐ
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϱͬϮͬϮϬϮϮ
EĞǁƚŽŶ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶΘ
DĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ͕/ŶĐ͘
/ŶĚŝĂŶ^ƉƌŝŶŐƐWĂƌŬZĞƐƚƌŽŽŵ
ZĞŵŽĚĞů
ΨϮϭϮ͕ϴϮϴ ΨϮϮ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϯϰй
ΨϮϬ͕ϲϴϬ Ψϭ͕ϯϮϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϮϮ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬϬй
ΨϬ
ϵϱй
&ŝĞůĚDĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞ
ϴͬϭϵͬϮϬϮϰ
ƵͲůů^ĂĨĞƚǇ
ŝƚǇtŝĚĞ/ŶͲWĞƌƐŽŶ^ĂĨĞƚǇ
dƌĂŝŶŝŶŐ
ΨϯϲϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϱϮ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϰ͘ϰϰй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϱϮ͕ϬϬϬ
&ůĞĞƚ
ϱͬϭϵͬϮϬϮϱ
sĞĐƚŽƌ&ůĞĞƚ
DĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ͕>>
&ůĞĞƚŵĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞƐĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ
ΨϮ͕Ϯϲϭ͕ϮϮϲ Ψϳϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϯ͘ϯϮй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϳϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϰй
&ůĞĞƚ
ϭϭͬϭϴͬϮϬϮϰ
dĞƌƌǇƋƵŝƉŵĞŶƚ
s^ƚƌĞĞƚ^ǁĞĞƉĞƌ
Ψϴϴϰ͕ϰϬϰ ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϱ͘ϲϱй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϰƚŚYƵĂƌƚĞƌϮϬϮϱ
&ůĞĞƚ
ϱͬϭͬϮϬϮϯ
EĂƚŝŽŶĂůƵƚŽ
&ůĞĞƚ'ƌŽƵƉ
WŽůŝĐĞĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚWĂƚƌŽů
sĞŚŝĐůĞƐ
Ψϱϴϱ͕ϵϯϬ Ψϱϵ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘Ϭϳй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϱϵ͕ϬϬϬ
Ϭй
sĞŚŝĐůĞƐƚŽďĞďƵŝůƚ
&ůĞĞƚ
ϭϬͬϭϳͬϮϬϮϮ
WƌŝŽƌŝƚǇϭWƵďůŝĐ
^ĂĨĞƚǇ
ƋƵŝƉŵĞŶƚ
/ŶƐƚĂůůĂƚŝŽŶ͕/ŶĐ͘
WƵƌĐŚĂƐĞĂŶĚ/ŶƐƚĂůůĂƚŝŽŶŽĨ
WƵďůŝĐ^ĂĨĞƚǇƋƵŝƉŵĞŶƚ
ΨϭϵϮ͕ϭϲϯ Ψϯϵ͕ϬϬϬ
ϮϬ͘ϯϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϯϵ͕ϬϬϬ
KŶŐŽŝŶŐ
229 of 293

--- page 230 ---
ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚͬŝǀŝƐŝŽŶ
ĂƚĞƉƉƌŽǀĞĚǇ
ŝƚǇŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌͬ
sĞŶĚŽƌ
ĞƐĐƌŝƉƚŝŽŶ
ƵƌƌĞŶƚŽŶƚƌĂĐƚ
ŵŽƵŶƚƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ
ďǇŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵĚŐĞƚ
йŽĨdŽƚĂů
ŵŽƵŶƚ
ƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ
ϭƐƚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϮŶĚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϯƌĚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϰƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϱƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϲΘďŽǀĞK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
dŽƚĂůŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵƐĞĚ
йŽĨ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
hƐĞĚ
ZĞŵĂŝŶŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƉƉƌŽǆŝŵĂƚĞWƌŽũĞĐƚ
ŽŵƉůĞƚŝŽŶй;WDƚŽ
ŽŵƉůĞƚĞͿ
ĂŶĚEŽƚĞƐ
&ůĞĞƚ
ϲͬϳͬϮϬϮϭ
EĂƚŝŽŶĂůƵƚŽ
&ůĞĞƚ'ƌŽƵƉ
WŽůŝĐĞĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚWĂƚƌŽů
sĞŚŝĐůĞƐ
Ψϰϳϱ͕ϱϯϰ ΨϲϮ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϯ͘Ϭϰй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϲϮ͕ϬϬϬ
ϯƌĚYƵĂƌƚĞƌϮϬϮϱ
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϲͬϭϲͬϮϬϮϱ
'ĞŽŽŶ
ŽŶƐƵůƚĂŶƚƐ͕/ŶĐ͘
WŽƉůĂƌƌĞĞŬ'ŽůĨŽƵƌƐĞtĞůů
ƌŝůůŝŶŐWƌŽũĞĐƚ
Ψϱϭϭ͕ϬϬϬ Ψϳϲ͕ϲϱϬ
ϭϱ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϳϲ͕ϲϱϬ
Ϭй
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϲͬϭϲͬϮϬϮϱ
ϰ>&͕/ŶĐ͘
ĂƐƚ,ŝůůƐĚĂůĞWĂƌŬWůĂǇŐƌŽƵŶĚ
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐWƌŽũĞĐƚͲ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶDĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ
^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ
ΨϮϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϱ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭй
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϲͬϭϲͬϮϬϮϱ
DŝƌĂĐůĞ
WůĂǇƐǇƐƚĞŵƐ
ĂƐƚ,ŝůůƐĚĂůĞWĂƌŬWůĂǇŐƌŽƵŶĚ
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐWƌŽũĞĐƚͲ
WůĂǇŐƌŽƵŶĚƋƵŝƉŵĞŶƚ
Ψϭϵϭ͕Ϯϰϳ Ψϭϵ͕ϭϮϱ
ϭϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϭϵ͕ϭϮϱ
ϱй͖^ƵďŵŝƚƚĂůWŚĂƐĞ
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϲͬϭϲͬϮϬϮϱ
:ĞƚDƵůĐŚ͕/ŶĐ͘
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞDĞĚŝĂŶ/ƐůĂŶĚ
DƵůĐŚŝŶŐ
ΨϯϮϲ͕ϳϮϳ ΨϯϮ͕ϲϮϳ
ϵ͘ϵϵй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϯϮ͕ϲϮϳ
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϲͬϮͬϮϬϮϱ
^ƵĂƌĞǌΘDƵŶŽǌ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ͕/ŶĐ͘
ĂƐƚ,ŝůůƐĚĂůĞWĂƌŬWůĂǇŐƌŽƵŶĚ
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐWƌŽũĞĐƚ
ΨϮ͕ϬϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϯϬϳ͕ϱϬϬ
ϭϱ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϯϬϳ͕ϱϬϬ
Ϭй
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϰͬϮϭͬϮϬϮϱ
ϰ>&͕/ŶĐ͘
ĞŶƚƌĂůWĂƌŬWůĂǇŐƌŽƵŶĚ
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐWƌŽũĞĐƚͲ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶDĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ
^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ
Ψϭ͕ϬϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϭϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϱ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϭϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϱй͖ĞŵŽůŝƚŝŽŶƉŚĂƐĞ
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϯͬϭϰͬϮϬϮϱ
WƵďůŝĐZĞƐƚƌŽŽŵ
ŽŵƉĂŶǇ͕/ŶĐ͘
ĞŶƚƌĂůWĂƌŬWůĂǇŐƌŽƵŶĚ
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐWƌŽũĞĐƚͲ
ZĞƐƚƌŽŽŵƐ
ΨϴϮϰ͕ϱϲϴ ΨϴϮ͕ϰϱϳ
ϭϬ͘ϬϬй
Ψϳ͕ϳϱϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϳ͕ϳϱϬ
ϵй
Ψϳϰ͕ϳϬϳ
ϱй͖^ƵďŵŝƚƚĂů
ƉƌĞƉĂƌĂƚŝŽŶWŚĂƐĞ
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϯͬϯͬϮϬϮϱ
^ƵĂƌĞǌΘDƵŶŽǌ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ͕/ŶĐ͘
ĞŶƚƌĂůWĂƌŬWůĂǇŐƌŽƵŶĚ
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐWƌŽũĞĐƚ
Ψϴ͕ϰϴϱ͕ϳϴϰ Ψϭ͕ϮϳϮ͕ϴϲϴ
ϭϱ͘ϬϬй
ΨϮ͕Ϭϰϴ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϮ͕Ϭϰϴ
Ϭй
Ψϭ͕ϮϳϬ͕ϴϮϬ
ϱй͖ĞŵŽůŝƚŝŽŶWŚĂƐĞ
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϱͬϮϬͬϮϬϮϰ
ĂǇƌĞĂ
ĚƵĐĂƚŝŽŶĂů
dŚĞĂƚĞƌŽŵƉĂŶǇ
^ƵŵŵĞƌŚŝůĚƌĞŶΖƐĂŶĚzŽƵƚŚ
dŚĞĂƚĞƌWƌŽŐƌĂŵ
ΨϮϱϰ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϴϰй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϳϱй
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϭϮͬϰͬϮϬϮϯ
>ŽƌĂů,ŽƌƚŝĐƵůƚƵƌĂů
^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ͕/ŶĐ͘
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞdƌĞĞWůĂŶƚŝŶŐ
^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ
ΨϮϲϮ͕ϲϳϱ ΨϮϲ͕Ϯϳϲ
ϭϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϮϲ͕Ϯϳϲ
ϰϮй
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϭϭͬϮϬͬϮϬϮϯ
>ŽƌĂů>ĂŶƐĐĂƉŝŶŐ͕
/ŶĐ͘
>ĂŶĚƐĐĂƉĞDĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞ
^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ͗DĞĚŝĂŶƐ͕/ƐůĂŶĚƐ͕
ĂŶĚZŝŐŚƚŽĨtĂǇƐ
Ψϴϲϱ͕ϰϵϬ͘ϱϬ ΨϭϮϵ͕ϴϮϰ
ϭϱ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϭϮϵ͕ϴϮϰ
ϮϬй
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϳͬϭϱͬϮϬϭϵ
ZZDĞƐŝŐŶ'ƌŽƵƉ
ĞŶƚƌĂůWĂƌŬĞƐŝŐŶ
ĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ
ΨϯϬϮ͕ϱϲϬ Ψϰϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϰ͘ϴϳй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϰϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϴй
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϳͬϭϱͬϮϬϭϵ
ZZDĞƐŝŐŶ'ƌŽƵƉ
ĞŶƚƌĂůWĂƌŬĞƐŝŐŶ
ĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ
ΨϮϴϲ͕ϰϰϬ Ψϰϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϱ͘ϳϭй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϰϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϲй
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϳͬϭϱͬϮϬϭϵ
ZZDĞƐŝŐŶ'ƌŽƵƉ
ĞŶƚƌĂůWĂƌŬĞƐŝŐŶ
ĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ
ΨϮϯϭ͕ϯϴϴ Ψϰϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϵ͘ϰϱй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϰϱ͕ϬϬϬ
Ϯϱй
WŽůŝĐĞ
ϭϮͬϵͬϮϬϮϰ
ǆŽŶŶƚĞƌƉƌŝƐĞ͕
/ŶĐ͘
DĂƐƚĞƌ^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐĂŶĚ
WƵƌĐŚĂƐŝŶŐŐƌĞĞŵĞŶƚͲ
,ĂƌĚǁĂƌĞ͕^ŽĨƚǁĂƌĞ͕^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ
Ψϳ͕ϯϱϬ͕ϬϱϮ ΨϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭ͘ϯϲй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
230 of 293

--- page 231 ---
ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚͬŝǀŝƐŝŽŶ
ĂƚĞƉƉƌŽǀĞĚǇ
ŝƚǇŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌͬ
sĞŶĚŽƌ
ĞƐĐƌŝƉƚŝŽŶ
ƵƌƌĞŶƚŽŶƚƌĂĐƚ
ŵŽƵŶƚƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ
ďǇŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵĚŐĞƚ
йŽĨdŽƚĂů
ŵŽƵŶƚ
ƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ
ϭƐƚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϮŶĚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϯƌĚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϰƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϱƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϲΘďŽǀĞK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
dŽƚĂůŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵƐĞĚ
йŽĨ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
hƐĞĚ
ZĞŵĂŝŶŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƉƉƌŽǆŝŵĂƚĞWƌŽũĞĐƚ
ŽŵƉůĞƚŝŽŶй;WDƚŽ
ŽŵƉůĞƚĞͿ
ĂŶĚEŽƚĞƐ
WŽůŝĐĞ
ϴͬϭϵͬϮϬϮϰ
DĞƚƌŽDŽďŝůĞ
ŽŵŵƵŶŝĐĂƚŝŽŶƐ
WŽůŝĐĞĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚZĂĚŝŽ
ZĞƉůĂĐĞŵĞŶƚ
ΨϳϮϭ͕Ϭϱϲ ΨϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϯ͘ϴϳй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
WƵďůŝĐtŽƌŬƐͬWΘZ
ϭͬϭϲͬϮϬϮϰ
ŝŶƚĂƐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚŝŽŶ
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞhŶŝĨŽƌŵ>ĂƵŶĚƌǇ
^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ
ΨϯϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϳ͘ϱϴй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ZĞŐŽŵƉůŝĂŶĐĞ
ϭϭͬϭͬϮϬϮϭ
dƌƵƐƐĞůů
dĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐŝĞƐ͕/ŶĐ͘
EĂƚŝŽŶĂůWŽůůƵƚĂŶƚŝƐĐŚĂƌŐĞ
ůŝŵŝŶĂƚŝŽŶ^ǇƐƚĞŵWĞƌŵŝƚ
ZĞŶĞǁĂů
Ψϭϱϯ͕ϰϵϬ Ψϭϱ͕ϯϱϬ
ϭϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϭϱ͕ϯϱϬ
ϱϬй
ZĞŐŽŵƉůŝĂŶĐĞ
ϱͬϭϳͬϮϬϮϭ
tĂƚĞƌǁŽƌŬƐ
/ŶĚƵƐƚƌŝĞƐ͕/ŶĐ
DĂƌŝŶĂ>ĂŐŽŽŶsĞŐĞƚĂƚŝŽŶ
ĂŶĚtĂƚĞƌYƵĂůŝƚǇ
DĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚWƌŽĨĞƐƐŝŽŶĂů
^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐŐƌĞĞŵĞŶƚ
Ψϴϱϴ͕ϵϴϬ Ψϴϲ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘Ϭϭй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϬ
ϭϬϬй
dƌĂŶƐƉŽƌƚĂƚŝŽŶŶŐ
ϲͬϭϲͬϮϬϮϱ
WŚŽĞŶŝǆůĞĐƚƌŝĐ
dƌĂĨĨŝĐ^ŝŐŶĂůDŽĚŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶĂƚ
WŽƉůĂƌǀĞŶƵĞ
ĂŶĚ,ƵŵďŽůĚƚ^ƚƌĞĞƚ
Ψϯϲϳ͕ϬϬϬ Ψϱϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϰ͘ϵϵй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϱϱ͕ϬϬϬ
Ϭй
dƌĂŶƐƉŽƌƚĂƚŝŽŶ
WůĂŶŶŝŶŐŶŐ
ϭͬϭϯͬϮϬϮϱ
>ŝĨĨĞǇůĞĐƚƌŝĐ
dŚŝƌĚǀĞŶƵĞĂŶĚ^ŽƵƚŚ
EŽƌĨŽůŬ^ƚƌĞĞƚ/ŶƚĞƌƐĞĐƚŝŽŶ
DŽĚŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶWƌŽũĞĐƚ
Ψϭ͕ϯϯϬ͕ϴϳϬ ΨϮϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϱ͘Ϭϯй
Ψϴ͕ϬϮϭ ΨϮϰ͕ϭϬϰ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϯϮ͕ϭϮϱ
ϭϲй
Ψϭϲϳ͕ϴϳϱ
ϴϱй
dƌĂŶƐƉŽƌƚĂƚŝŽŶ
WůĂŶŶŝŶŐŶŐ
ϴͬϭϵͬϮϬϮϰ
ŽůƵŵďŝĂůĞĐƚƌŝĐ͕
/ŶĐ͘
,ŝŐŚsŽůƚĂŐĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚůŝŐŚƚ
ŽŶǀĞƌƐŝŽŶ;WŚĂƐĞϱͿ
ΨϮ͕ϬϱϬ͕ϯϮϱ Ψϯϭϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϱ͘ϯϲй
Ψϱ͕ϵϭϯ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϱ͕ϵϭϯ
Ϯй
ΨϯϬϵ͕Ϭϴϳ
ϵϬй
dƌĂŶƐƉŽƌƚĂƚŝŽŶ
WůĂŶŶŝŶŐŶŐ
ϰͬϭͬϮϬϮϰ
/ŶŶŽǀĂƚŝǀĞĂƚĂ
ĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶƐ͕>>
ĚďĂ/yĂƚĂ
^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ
KŶͲĂůůdƌĂĨĨŝĐŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ
ĂƚĂŽůůĞĐƚŝŽŶ^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ
ΨϱϭϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϱ͘ϴϴй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϲϬй
dƌĂŶƐƉŽƌƚĂƚŝŽŶ
WůĂŶŶŝŶŐŶŐ
ϭϮͬϰͬϮϬϮϯ
^ĂŶĚŝƐŝǀŝů
ŶŐŝŶĞĞƌƐ
^ƵƌǀĞǇŽƌƐWůĂŶŶĞƌƐ
ĞůĂǁĂƌĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚ^ĂĨĞZŽƵƚĞƐ
ƚŽ^ĐŚŽŽůŽƌƌŝĚŽƌŝĐǇĐůĞ
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐ
ΨϮϵϬ͕ϵϴϬ ΨϮϵ͕ϭϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϮϵ͕ϭϬϬ
ϵϬй
dƌĂŶƐƉŽƌƚĂƚŝŽŶ
WůĂŶŶŝŶŐŶŐ
ϵͬϭϵͬϮϬϮϮ
&ĞŚƌΘWĞĞƌƐ
^ĂŶDĂƚĞŽŽŵƉůĞƚĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚƐ
WůĂŶ
Ψϰϴϵ͕ϵϳϱ ΨϲϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϮ͘Ϯϱй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϲϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϳϬй
dƌĂŶƐƉŽƌƚĂƚŝŽŶ
WůĂŶŶŝŶŐŶŐ
ϵͬϭͬϮϬϮϮ
ĞůůĞĐĐŝΘ
ƐƐŽĐŝĂƚĞƐ͕/ŶĐ͘
,ŝůůƐĚĂůĞĂůƚƌĂŝŶ^ƚĂƚŝŽŶ
ŝĐǇĐůĞĐĐĞƐƐ'ĂƉůŽƐƵƌĞ
WƌŽũĞĐƚʹŵĞŶĚŵĞŶƚ
Ϯϰϲ͕ϵϰϴ
Ψ
Ψϵϴ͕Ϯϱϱ
ϯϵ͘ϳϵй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϵϴ͕Ϯϱϱ
ϳϬй
ttdW
ϲͬϭϲͬϮϬϮϱ
^E&WŽůǇĚǇŶĞ
^ƵƉƉůǇŽĨ>ŝƋƵŝĚŵƵůƐŝŽŶ
WŽůǇŵĞƌ
Ψϱϰϴ͕ϵϳϰ Ψϱϰ͕ϵϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϱϰ͕ϵϬϬ
ttdW
ϭϭͬϭϴͬϮϬϮϰ
ƌŽǁŶĂŶĚ
ĂůĚǁĞůů
ttdWŝŽŐĂƐĂŶĚŝŽƐŽůŝĚƐ
ǀĂůƵĂƚŝŽŶ
Ψϭ͕Ϯϰϵ͕ϭϴϬ ΨϰϮϲ͕ϬϬϬ
ϯϰ͘ϭϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϰϮϲ͕ϬϬϬ
ttdW
ϮͬϱͬϮϬϮϰ
KŶĞtŽƌŬƉůĂĐĞ
tĂƐƚĞǁĂƚĞƌdƌĞĂƚŵĞŶƚWůĂŶƚ
&ƵƌŶŝƐŚŝŶŐ^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐĨŽƌEĞǁ
ĚŵŝŶŝƐƚƌĂƚŝŽŶƵŝůĚŝŶŐ
ΨϰϬϬ͕Ϯϵϴ ΨϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϵϵй
ΨϭϮ͕ϱϴϵ Ψϰ͕ϭϬϭ ΨϯϬϯ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϭϲ͕ϵϵϯ
ϰϮй
ΨϮϯ͕ϬϬϳ
ϵϵй
ttdW
ϭϭͬϲͬϮϬϮϯ
ŶƚĞƌƉƌŝƐĞ
ƵƚŽŵĂƚŝŽŶ
tĂƐƚĞǁĂƚĞƌ^ǇƐƚĞŵ
^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽŶƚƌŽůĂŶĚĂƚĂ
ĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶ^ǇƐƚĞŵDĞƌŐĞƌ
WƌŽũĞĐƚ
Ψϰϳϱ͕ϲϳϵ ΨϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϲ͘ϯϭй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ttdW
ϳͬϭϳͬϮϬϮϯ
dDWƌŽƐ
DĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ͕DŽŶŝƚŽƌŝŶŐ͕
ZĞƉĂŝƌŝŶŐ͕ΘƉĂƚĐŚŝŶŐƚŚĞ
^ƐǇƐƚĞŵ
Ψϰϴϱ͕ϰϬϴ ΨϮϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϰ͘ϭϮй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϮϬ͕ϬϬϬ
231 of 293

--- page 232 ---
ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚͬŝǀŝƐŝŽŶ
ĂƚĞƉƉƌŽǀĞĚǇ
ŝƚǇŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌͬ
sĞŶĚŽƌ
ĞƐĐƌŝƉƚŝŽŶ
ƵƌƌĞŶƚŽŶƚƌĂĐƚ
ŵŽƵŶƚƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ
ďǇŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵĚŐĞƚ
йŽĨdŽƚĂů
ŵŽƵŶƚ
ƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ
ϭƐƚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϮŶĚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϯƌĚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϰƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϱƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϲΘďŽǀĞK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
dŽƚĂůŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵƐĞĚ
йŽĨ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
hƐĞĚ
ZĞŵĂŝŶŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƉƉƌŽǆŝŵĂƚĞWƌŽũĞĐƚ
ŽŵƉůĞƚŝŽŶй;WDƚŽ
ŽŵƉůĞƚĞͿ
ĂŶĚEŽƚĞƐ
ttdW
ϲͬϮϬͬϮϬϮϮ
^ǇŶĂŐƌŽͲttd͕/ŶĐ͘ tĂƐƚĞǁĂƚĞƌdƌĞĂƚŵĞŶƚWůĂŶƚ
ŝŽƐŽůŝĚƐ,ĂƵůŝŶŐĂŶĚŝƐƉŽƐĂů ΨϮ͕ϳϵϰ͕ϮϱϬ ΨϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϯ͘ϱϴй
ΨϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬϬй
ΨϬ
ϱϯй
ttdW
ϲͬϭϲͬϮϬϮϱ
ŽŵƉĂĐƚŽƌ
DĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ
ŽŵƉĂŶǇ͕>>
'ƌŝƚ͕ZĂŐ͕^ĐƵŵ͕,ĂƵůŝŶŐĂŶĚ
ŝƐƉŽƐĂů
ΨϭϲϬ͕ϯϬϬ ΨϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ
Ϯϰ͘ϵϱй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ttdW
ϲͬϭϲͬϮϬϮϱ
ǁĂƚĞƌdĂůĞŶƚ
^ƚĂĨĨƵŐŵĞŶƚĂƚŝŽŶ^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ
Ψϲϵϵ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϰ͘ϯϭй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ΨϳϮϴ͕ϰϬϮ͕ϳϴϰ͘ϯϱ ΨϭϮϯ͕ϱϰϬ͕ϲϬϭ͘ϲϯ
ϭϲ͘ϵϲй
Ψϲϭ͕ϱϱϰ͕ϱϲϯ͘ϲϲ
ϱϬй
Ψϲϭ͕ϵϬϬ͕Ϭϯϴ
232 of 293

--- page 233 ---
ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚͬŝǀŝƐŝŽŶ
ĂƚĞ
ƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇ
ŝƚǇŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌͬsĞŶĚŽƌ
ĞƐĐƌŝƉƚŝŽŶ
ŵŽƵŶƚƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇ
ŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵĚŐĞƚ
йŽĨdŽƚĂů
ŵŽƵŶƚ
ƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ
ϭƐƚK
ŝŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϮŶĚK
ŝŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϯƌĚK
ŝŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϰƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϱƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϲƚŚΘďŽǀĞƌ
K/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞĐǇ
dŽƚĂů
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵƐĞĚ
йŽĨ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
hƐĞĚ
hŶƵƐĞĚ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
/WŶŐ
ϴͬϭϵͬϮϬϮϰ
t͘Z͘&ŽƌĚĞ
ƐƐŽĐŝĂƚĞƐ͕/ŶĐ͘
ϭϬϬϭ,ĂĚĚŽŶƌWŽŶĚŝŶŐZĞƉĂŝƌ
Ψϭϲϯ͕ϰϭϱ ΨϮϰ͕ϱϬϬ
ϭϰ͘ϵϵй
Ψϭϳ͕ϴϳϳ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϭϳ͕ϴϳϳ
ϳϯй
Ψϲ͕ϲϮϯ
/WŶŐ
ϲͬϯͬϮϬϮϰ
t͘Z͘&ŽƌĚĞ
ƐƐŽĐŝĂƚĞƐ͕/ŶĐ͘
^ƚƌĞĞƚWĞĚĞƐƚƌŝĂŶDĂůů
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐ
Ψϱϯϰ͕ϴϲϲ ΨϴϬ͕ϮϯϬ
ϭϱ͘ϬϬй
Ψϲϳ͕ϬϬϰ͘ϰϰ ΨϮ͕ϵϱϭ͘ϯϱ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϲϵ͕ϵϱϲ
ϴϳй
ΨϭϬ͕Ϯϳϰ
/WŶŐ
ϱͬϲͬϮϬϮϰ
'ŽůĚĞŶĂǇ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
ŽǁŶƚŽǁŶWĂƌŬŝŶŐ'ĂƌĂŐĞ^ĂĨĞƚǇ
WƌŽũĞĐƚ
ΨϯϴϬ͕ϰϯϵ Ψϳϲ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϵ͘ϵϴй
Ψϰ͕ϴϯϮ͘ϬϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϰ͕ϴϯϮ
ϲй
Ψϳϭ͕ϭϲϴ
/WŶŐ
ϭϮͬϰͬϮϬϮϯ
^ƚ͘&ƌĂŶĐŝƐůĞĐƚƌŝĐ͕
>>
ĞƌŵƵĚĂƌŝǀĞhƚŝůŝƚǇZĞůŽĐĂƚŝŽŶ
Ψϭϲϳ͕ϭϬϱ ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϰ͘ϵϲй
Ψϲ͕ϭϭϱ Ψϭ͕ϲϲϮ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϳ͕ϳϳϳ
ϯϭй
Ψϭϳ͕ϮϮϯ
/WŶŐ
ϰͬϯͬϮϬϮϯ
ZĞĚŐǁŝŬ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
ŽŵƉĂŶǇ
ϰƚŚĂŶĚϱƚŚZĂŝůƌŽĂĚ'ƌĂĚĞ
ƌŽƐƐŝŶŐƐWƌŽũĞĐƚƐ
Ψϲϳϭ͕ϬϲϮ Ψϲϰ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϱϰй
Ψϭϲ͕Ϭϲϰ Ψϭϳ͕ϭϱϬ Ψϭϳ͕ϴϴϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϱϭ͕Ϭϵϰ
ϴϬй
ΨϭϮ͕ϵϬϲ
/WŶŐ
ϮͬϮϭͬϮϬϮϯ
'^tŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ͕
/ŶĐ
WŽƉůĂƌĂƚ'ŽůĨŽƵƌƐĞdƌĂƐŚĂƉƚƵƌĞ
WƌŽũĞĐƚ
Ψϱϳϭ͕ϳϴϴ ΨϱϮ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘Ϭϵй
Ψϱϭ͕ϴϱϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϱϭ͕ϴϱϬ
ϭϬϬй
ΨϭϱϬ
/WŶŐ
ϭͬϭϳͬϮϬϮϯ
WƌĞĐŝƐŝŽŶŵƉƌŝƐĞ͕
>>ĚďĂWƌĞĐŝƐŝŽŶ
ŽŶĐƌĞƚĞƵƚƚŝŶŐ
ϮϬϮϮͲϮϯŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ
ůŽĐŬ'ƌĂŶƚWƌŽũĞĐƚ
ϯϯϰ͕ϭϳϮ
Ψ
Ψϯϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϰϳй
ΨϮϱ͕ϳϮϳ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϮϱ͕ϳϮϳ
ϳϰй
Ψϵ͕Ϯϳϯ
/WŶŐ
ϵͬϲͬϮϬϮϮ
'ŚŝƌĂƌĚĞůůŝ
ƐƐŽĐŝĂƚĞƐ͕/ŶĐ͘
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚ^ůƵƌƌǇ^ĞĂůWĂĐŬĂŐĞ
ϮͲWƌŽũĞĐƚͲŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
ΨϮϳϴ͕ϮϬϬ ΨϮϵ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϰϮй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϮϵ͕ϬϬϬ
/WŶŐ
ϵͬϲͬϮϬϮϮ
ŵĞƌŝĐĂŶƐƉŚĂůƚ
ZĞƉĂŝƌΘZĞƐƵƌĨĂĐŝŶŐ
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚ^ůƵƌƌǇ^ĞĂůWĂĐŬĂŐĞ
ϮͲWƌŽũĞĐƚ
ΨϮ͕ϴϳϰ͕ϯϳϰ Ψϰϯϭ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϰ͘ϵϵй
ΨϮϬ͕ϱϴϱ ΨϮϮ͕ϲϳϱ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϰϯ͕ϮϲϬ
ϭϬй
Ψϯϴϳ͕ϳϰϬ
/WŶŐ
ϳͬϭϴͬϮϬϮϮ
dĞŝĐŚĞƌƚŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞĐŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
WŚĂƐĞϯ
Ψϰ͕ϮϮϵ͕ϲϲϳ Ψϭ͕Ϯϵϴ͕ϬϬϬ
ϯϬ͘ϲϵй
Ψϭ͕ϱϯϵ Ψϵ͕ϲϱϴ Ψϱϭ͕ϴϴϲ Ψϳ͕Ϭϰϴ Ψϳϲ͕ϴϲϲ Ψϭ͕ϬϬϭ͕ϴϯϯ Ψϭ͕ϭϰϴ͕ϴϯϬ
ϴϵй
Ψϭϰϵ͕ϭϳϬ
/WŶŐ
ϳͬϭϴͬϮϬϮϮ
'͘ŽƌƚŽůŽƚƚŽΘ
ŽŵƉĂŶǇ͕/ŶĐ͘
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶ
WĂĐŬĂŐĞϯͲ;WŚĂƐĞϮͿ
Ψϭ͕ϳϱϱ͕ϯϰϬ Ψϭϳϲ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘Ϭϯй
Ψϭϵ͕ϰϬϱ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϭϵ͕ϰϬϱ
ϭϭй
Ψϭϱϲ͕ϱϵϱ
/WŶŐ
ϲͬϮϬͬϮϬϮϮ
'͘ŽƌƚŽůŽƚƚŽΘ
ŽŵƉĂŶǇ͕/ŶĐ͘
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶ
WĂĐŬĂŐĞϯͲ;WŚĂƐĞϭͿ
ΨϮ͕ϭϲϲ͕ϮϬϳ ΨϮϭϳ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϬϮй
ΨϮϱ͕ϰϬϬ Ψϰ͕ϬϬϬ Ψϱ͕ϳϬϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϯϱ͕ϭϬϬ
ϭϲй
Ψϭϴϭ͕ϵϬϬ
/WŶŐ
ϲͬϲͬϮϬϮϮ
,ZŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ͕
/ŶĐͬ͘tƌĞĐŽ
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶ
WŚĂƐĞϰͲ
ΨϯϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ Ψϯϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϯϱ͕ϬϬϬ
/WŶŐ
ϮͬϳͬϮϬϮϮ
:͘s͘>ƵĐĂƐWĂǀŝŶŐ͕/ŶĐ͘
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞŚĂďŝůŝĂƚŝŽŶ
WĂĐŬĂŐĞϮͲ
Ψϵϳϲ͕ϰϭϱ Ψϵϴ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘Ϭϰй
Ψϭϱ͕ϲϰϰ Ψ;ϮϱϳͿ ΨϮϴ͕ϱϯϯ ΨϮϭ͕ϳϭϮ Ψϲ͕ϱϬϰ ΨͲ ΨϳϮ͕ϯϵϯ
ϳϰй
ΨϮϱ͕ϲϬϳ
/WŶŐ
ϭϮͬϲͬϮϬϮϭ
ůƚĂ'ƌŽƵƉ͕/ŶĐ͘
DĂŝŶ^ƚƌĞĞƚ'ĂƌĂŐĞZĞƉĂŝƌƐ
ΨϭϮϯ͕ϵϴϯ ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϮϬ͘ϭϲй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
/WŶŐ
ϭϬͬϰͬϮϬϮϭ
DĐ'ƵŝƌĞĂŶĚ,ĞƐƚĞƌ
ϮϬϮϬͲϮϭŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ
ůŽĐŬ'ƌĂŶƚWƌŽũĞĐƚ
Ψϭ͕ϲϲϴ͕Ϯϳϭ ΨϭϳϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϭϵй
Ψϰϭ͕ϮϰϮ Ψϱ͕Ϭϰϵ ΨϮ͕ϲϴϳ Ψϯϭ͕ϬϬϯ ΨϮϵ͕ϯϲϰ ΨͲ ΨϭϬϵ͕ϯϰϲ
ϲϰй
ΨϲϬ͕ϲϱϰ
/WŶŐ
ϵͬϮϬͬϮϬϮϭ
ƐƋƵŝǀĞů'ƌĂĚŝŶŐΘ
WĂǀŝŶŐ͕/ŶĐ
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞĐŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
WŚĂƐĞϮ
Ψϭ͕Ϭϭϴ͕ϬϬϯ ΨϭϬϮ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϬϮй
ΨϵϬϮ ΨϳϬ͕Ϭϲϰ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϳϬ͕ϵϲϲ
ϳϬй
Ψϯϭ͕Ϭϯϰ
/WŶŐ
ϵͬϮϬͬϮϬϮϭ
tŝůƐĞǇ,Ăŵ
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞĐŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
WŚĂƐĞϯ
ΨϰϬϯ͕ϬϬϬ Ψϰϭ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϭϳй
ΨϮϰ͕ϵϴϬ Ψϵ͕ϰϴϱ Ψϲ͕ϰϬϵ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϰϬ͕ϴϳϰ
ϭϬϬй
ΨϭϮϲ
/WŶŐ
ϴͬϭϲͬϮϬϮϭ
ŶĚƌĞŝŶŝƌŽƚŚĞƌƐ
/ŶĐ͘
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶ
WĂĐŬĂŐĞϭͲWƌŽũĞĐƚ;WŚĂƐĞϮͿ
ΨϮ͕ϭϭϵ͕ϱϱϱ ΨϭϵϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϴ͘ϵϲй
Ψϯϲ͕ϳϱϰ Ψϲϭ͕ϰϭϳ Ψϴ͕ϵϯϱ Ψϭϱ͕ϳϮϮ Ψϵ͕ϯϱϱ ΨϮϬ͕ϯϬϮ ΨϭϱϮ͕ϰϴϲ
ϴϬй
Ψϯϳ͕ϱϭϰ
/WŶŐ
ϴͬϲͬϮϬϮϭ
tŝůƐĞǇ,Ăŵ
WƌŽĨĞƐƐŝŽŶĂůĞƐŝŐŶ^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐĨŽƌ
^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞĐŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶWŚĂƐĞϭ
Ψϲϭϳ͕ϭϲϯ ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϴ͘ϭϬй
ΨϯϮ͕ϭϯϭ Ψϭϳ͕ϴϲϵ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬϬй
ΨͲ
/WŶŐ
ϳͬϭϵͬϮϬϮϭ
tZK
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶ
WĂĐŬĂŐĞϯ
ΨϯϭϬ͕ϬϬϬ Ψϯϭ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϯϭ͕ϬϬϬ
/WŶŐ
ϱͬϭϳͬϮϬϮϭ
DĐ<ŝŵŽƌƉŽƌĂƚŝŽŶ
>ĂƵƌŝĞDĞĂĚŽǁƐWĞĚĞƐƚƌŝĂŶĂŶĚ
ŝĐǇĐůĞ^ĂĨĞƚǇ/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚWƌŽũĞĐƚ Ψϰϲϱ͕ϲϰϴ Ψϰϲ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϴϴй
ΨϮϭ͕ϯϲϳ Ψϭϭ͕ϯϰϵ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϯϮ͕ϳϭϲ
ϳϭй
Ψϭϯ͕Ϯϴϰ
/WŶŐ
ϰͬϭϵͬϮϬϮϭ
/ŶƚĞƌƐƚĂƚĞ'ƌĂĚŝŶŐΘ
WĂǀŝŶŐ
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞĐŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
WŚĂƐĞϭ
Ψϰ͕ϰϱϳ͕ϱϯϯ ΨϯϳϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϴ͘ϯϬй
Ψϱϵ͕ϱϭϳ ΨϮ͕Ϯϰϵ Ψϭ͕ϵϬϬ Ψϰϭ͕ϵϱϬ Ψ;ϰ͕ϯϯϳͿ Ψϰϲ͕ϴϵϯ ΨϭϱϮ͕ϱϬϵ
ϰϭй
ΨϮϭϳ͕ϰϵϭ
/WŶŐ
ϰͬϭϵͬϮϬϮϭ
/ŶƚĞƌƐƚĂƚĞ'ƌĂĚŝŶŐΘ
WĂǀŝŶŐ
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶ
WĂĐŬĂŐĞϭͲWƌŽũĞĐƚWŚĂƐĞϭ
Ψϵϲϴ͕ϳϱϳ ΨϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϯϮй
Ψϳ͕Ϯϰϭ Ψϯ͕ϯϮϬ Ψϵ͕Ϯϲϯ Ψ;ϳϰ͕ϱϬϰͿ
ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϭϵ͕ϴϮϰ
ϮϬй
ΨϴϬ͕ϭϳϲ
/WŶŐ
ϵͬϮϭͬϮϬϮϬ
tZK͕/ŶĐ͘
^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶWĂĐŬĂŐĞϭͲ
Ψϯϭϭ͕ϴϲϬ ΨϵϬ͕ϬϬϬ
Ϯϴ͘ϴϲй
ΨϮϳ͕ϵϲϴ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϮϳ͕ϵϲϴ
ϯϭй
ΨϲϮ͕ϬϯϮ
/WŶŐ
ϵͬϴͬϮϬϮϬ
DĐ<ŝŵŽƌƉŽƌĂƚŝŽŶ
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶ
WĂĐŬĂŐĞϭͲ
Ψϭ͕ϯϭϴ͕ϱϵϳ ΨϭϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϴϲй
Ψϭ͕Ϯϲϱ ΨϭϮ͕ϮϭϬ Ψ;ϭϭϵ͕ϴϴϰͿ
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϭϯ͕ϰϳϱ
ϭϬй
Ψϭϭϲ͕ϱϮϱ
/WŶŐ
ϲͬϭϱͬϮϬϮϬ
s^^/ŶƚĞƌŶĂƚŝŽŶĂů
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ůƵƌƌǇ^ĞĂůWĂĐŬĂŐĞϭͲ
Ψϭ͕ϬϲϬ͕Ϭϯϱ ΨϭϮϯ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϭ͘ϲϬй
Ψ
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϭϮϯ͕ϬϬϬ
/WŶŐ
ϱͬϰͬϮϬϮϬ
ŶĚĞƌƐŽŶWĂĐŝĨŝĐ
ŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ
EŽƌƚŚ^ŚŽƌĞǀŝĞǁ&ůŽŽĚ
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐͲŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
ΨϮϯ͕ϵϮϳ͕ϲϬϬ ΨϮ͕ϯϵϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϵϵй
Ψϳϱ͕ϱϭϮ ΨϮϭϴ͕ϱϱϭ Ψϭϲ͕ϲϰϬ Ψϯϴ͕ϳϬϱ Ψϱϭϭ͕ϯϭϬ ΨϮϴϭ͕ϲϭϰ Ψϭ͕ϭϰϮ͕ϯϯϮ
ϰϴй
Ψϭ͕Ϯϰϳ͕ϲϲϴ
/WŶŐ
ϭͬϮϭͬϮϬϮϬ
DĐ<ŝŵŽƌƉŽƌĂƚŝŽŶ
ϮϬϭϴͲϭϵŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ
'ƌĂŶĚ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞŚĂďWƌŽũĞĐƚ
ΨϴϮϭ͕ϰϳϯ ΨϴϮ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϵϴй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϴϮ͕ϬϬϬ
/WŶŐ
ϭͬϲͬϮϬϮϬ
Z<ŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ͕/ŶĐ͘
E^ĂŶDĂƚĞŽƌ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚ
WƌŽũĞĐƚ
Ψϯ͕ϬϬϲ͕ϳϳϱ ΨϯϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϵϴй
ΨϮ͕ϯϰϲ Ψϲ͕ϮϲϬ Ψϭ͕Ϯϭϭ Ψϭϱ͕ϵϬϬ Ψ;ϵϰ͕ϵϲϳͿ
ΨͲ ΨϮϱ͕ϳϭϲ
ϵй
ΨϮϳϰ͕Ϯϴϰ
/WŶŐ
ϭϭͬϭϴͬϮϬϭϵ
tŝůƐĞǇ,Ăŵ
^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞĐŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶWŚĂƐĞ//
ŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ
Ψϲϵϭ͕ϲϰϯ ΨϲϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϴ͘ϲϳй
ΨϮϮ͕ϱϳϬ ΨϮϳ͕ϰϱϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϱϬ͕ϬϮϬ
ϴϯй
Ψϵ͕ϵϴϬ
/WŶŐ
ϵͬϭϲͬϮϬϭϵ
ŝƐĂďŝůŝƚǇĐĐĞƐƐ
ŽŶƐƵůƚĂŶƚƐ͕/ŶĐ͘
ŵĞƌŝĐĂŶƐǁŝƚŚŝƐĂďŝůŝƚŝĞƐĐƚ^ĞůĨͲ
ǀĂůƵĂƚŝŽŶΘdƌĂŶƐŝƚŝŽŶWůĂŶ
Ψϯϳϳ͕ϴϮϱ ΨϮϲ͕ϬϬϬ
ϲ͘ϴϴй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϮϲ͕ϬϬϬ
KDW>dKEdZd^t/d,KEd/E'Ez&hE^ĨƌŽŵϳͬϬϭͬϮϬϭϳƚŚƌŽƵŐŚϬϲͬϯϬͬϮϬϮϱ
dŚŝƐƐƵŵŵĂƌǇĚŽĞƐŶŽƚŝŶĐůƵĚĞƉƌŽũĞĐƚƐǁŝƚŚĐŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐŝĞƐƵŶĚĞƌΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ͘EĞŐĂƚŝǀĞŽƌŶŽͲĐŽƐƚĐŚĂŶŐĞŽƌĚĞƌƐĚŽŶŽƚŝŵƉĂĐƚƚŚĞĐŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇĨƵŶĚ͘
233 of 293

--- page 234 ---
ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚͬŝǀŝƐŝŽŶ
ĂƚĞ
ƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇ
ŝƚǇŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌͬsĞŶĚŽƌ
ĞƐĐƌŝƉƚŝŽŶ
ŵŽƵŶƚƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇ
ŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵĚŐĞƚ
йŽĨdŽƚĂů
ŵŽƵŶƚ
ƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ
ϭƐƚK
ŝŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϮŶĚK
ŝŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϯƌĚK
ŝŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϰƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϱƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϲƚŚΘďŽǀĞƌ
K/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞĐǇ
dŽƚĂů
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵƐĞĚ
йŽĨ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
hƐĞĚ
hŶƵƐĞĚ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
/WŶŐ
ϳͬϭϱͬϮϬϭϵ
ƵŬĞΖƐZŽŽƚŽŶƚƌŽů͕
/ŶĐ͘
ϮϬϭϴͲϭϵ^ĂŶŝƚĂƌǇ^ĞǁĞƌZŽŽƚ
&ŽĂŵŝŶŐ
Ψϯϵϵ͕ϬϬϯ ΨϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϬϮй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ
/WŶŐ
ϳͬϭϱͬϮϬϭϵ
'͘ŽƌƚŽůŽƚƚŽΘŽ͕͘
/ŶĐ͘
ϮϬϭϴͲϭϵ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶWŚĂƐĞ
//WƌŽũĞĐƚ
ΨϮ͕Ϯϭϳ͕ϱϵϬ ΨϮϮϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϵϮй
Ψϲϰ͕ϭϮϬ Ψϯϯ͕ϭϳϯ Ψ;ϳϵͿ
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϵϳ͕Ϯϵϯ
ϰϰй
ΨϭϮϮ͕ϳϬϳ
/WŶŐ
ϳͬϭϱͬϮϬϭϵ
'ŽůĚĞŶĂǇ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ͕/ŶĐ͘
ϮϬϭϴͲϮϬϭϵ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶ
WŚĂƐĞ/WƌŽũĞĐƚ
Ψϭ͕ϲϴϯ͕ϴϱϳ Ψϭϲϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϴϬй
ΨϮϰ͕ϲϳϲ Ψϰϲ͕ϲϬϴ Ψϴϵ͕ϰϭϳ Ψ;ϯϯϯ͕ϰϱϳͿ
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϭϲϬ͕ϳϬϭ
ϵϳй
Ψϰ͕Ϯϵϵ
/WŶŐ
ϲͬϭϳͬϮϬϭϵ
'ƌĂŶŝƚĞŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
ZĂŶĚ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞĐŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
Ψϭ͕ϭϮϲ͕ϳϲϯ ΨϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϴ͘ϴϳй
Ψϰϰ͕ϴϵϭ Ψϱ͕ϴϯϬ Ψϳϰ͕ϱϲϯ Ψ;Ϯϯ͕ϯϴϰͿ
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϭϮϱ͕Ϯϴϰ
ϭϮϱй
Ψ;Ϯϱ͕ϮϴϰͿ
/WŶŐ
ϱͬϮϬͬϮϬϭϵ
dĞŶŶǇƐŽŶůĞĐƚƌŝĐ͕
/ŶĐ͘
ĂǇǁŽŽĚ,ŝŐŚͲsŽůƚĂŐĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚůŝŐŚƚ
ŽŶǀĞƌƐŝŽŶ
Ψϭ͕ϯϯϱ͕ϵϮϬ Ψϭϯϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϭϭй
Ψϯϯ͕ϰϴϬ ΨϭϮ͕ϱϴϳ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϰϲ͕Ϭϲϳ
ϯϰй
Ψϴϴ͕ϵϯϯ
/WŶŐ
ϱͬϲͬϮϬϭϵ
ZĂŶŐĞƌWŝƉĞůŝŶĞƐ͕/ŶĐ͘
ĂƐŝŶϭŽůůĞĐƚŝŽŶ^ǇƐƚĞŵ
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐͲŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
Ψϰ͕ϲϮϲ͕ϭϰϱ ΨϳϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϱ͘ϭϯй
Ψϭϱ͕ϬϬϬ Ψϭϳ͕ϭϵϱ ΨϭϮϴ͕Ϭϭϭ ΨϭϮ͕ϮϱϬ Ψϵϱ͕ϭϮϲ ΨͲ ΨϮϲϳ͕ϱϴϮ
ϯϴй
ΨϰϯϮ͕ϰϭϴ
/WŶŐ
ϱͬϲͬϮϬϭϵ
ZĞĚŐǁŝĐŬ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
ZŽĐŚĞƐƚĞƌĂŶĚKƚƚĂǁĂ^ƚƌĞĞƚ
ZĞĐŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
ΨϮ͕ϲϵϯ͕ϰϰϬ ΨϮϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϴ͘ϱϰй
ΨϭϬ͕ϱϬϱ Ψϱ͕ϴϵϱ Ψ;ϳ͕ϯϯϭͿ ΨϮϬϵ͕ϳϴϱ Ψ;Ϯϯ͕ϮϰϮͿ
ΨͲ ΨϮϮϲ͕ϭϴϱ
ϵϴй
Ψϯ͕ϴϭϱ
/WŶŐ
ϵͬϭϳͬϮϬϭϴ
'ŽůĚĞŶĂǇ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
ϮϬϭϳͲϭϴ^ŝĚĞǁĂůŬZĞƉĂŝƌWƌŽũĞĐƚ
Ψϰϲϴ͕ϲϬϵ Ψϰϳ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘Ϭϯй
Ψϱ͕ϳϯϯ ΨϭϮ͕ϱϱϬ Ψϭϵ͕ϯϮϵ Ψϰ͕ϵϮϬ Ψ;ϳϭ͕ϳϬϭͿ
ΨͲ ΨϰϮ͕ϱϯϮ
ϵϬй
Ψϰ͕ϰϲϴ
/WŶŐ
ϴͬϮϬͬϮϬϭϴ
'͘ŽƌƚŽůŽƚƚŽΘŽ͕͘
/ŶĐ͘
ϮϬϭϴͲϭϵ^ůƵƌƌǇ^ĞĂůĂƐŝŶ
Ψϭ͕Ϯϲϯ͕ϭϭϬ ΨϭϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϵϬй
Ψϵ͕ϵϳϲ Ψϰϵ͕ϯϲϲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϱϵ͕ϯϰϮ
ϰϳй
Ψϲϱ͕ϲϱϴ
/WŶŐ
ϴͬϮϬͬϮϬϭϴ
'ƌĂŶŝƚĞŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
͘,ŝůůƐĚĂůĞůǀĚ^ƚƌĞĞƚ
ZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶ
Ψϭ͕ϲϬϵ͕ϱϯϲ Ψϭϲϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘Ϯϱй
Ψϱ͕ϳϱϱ Ψϴ͕Ϯϲϴ ΨϭϬ͕ϬϬϬ Ψϯϳ͕ϵϱϲ Ψϲϭ͕ϵϳϴ ΨͲ ΨϭϮϯ͕ϵϱϲ
ϳϱй
Ψϰϭ͕Ϭϰϰ
/WŶŐ
ϳͬϭϲͬϮϬϭϴ
ZĞĚŐǁŝĐŬ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
ĂƐƚWŽƉůĂƌǀĞZĞĐŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
WƌŽũĞĐƚ
Ψϲϳϴ͕ϮϴϬ ΨϳϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϯϮй
Ψϭϳ͕ϳϴϰ ΨϮϯ͕Ϯϵϰ Ψϭϳ͕ϰϱϰ Ψϭ͕ϳϳϵ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϲϬ͕ϯϭϭ
ϴϲй
Ψϵ͕ϲϴϵ
/WŶŐ
ϱͬϳͬϮϬϭϴ
<ŝŶŐĚŽŵWŝƉĞůŝŶĞƐ
WŽƉůĂƌǀĞWƵŵƉ^ƚĂƚŝŽŶdƌĂƐŚ
ĂƉƚƵƌĞ
Ψϰϱϳ͕ϱϬϬ Ψϰϲ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘Ϭϱй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϰϲ͕ϬϬϬ
/WŶŐ
ϰͬϭϲͬϮϬϭϴ
'͘ŽƌƚŽůŽƚƚŽΘŽ͕͘
/ŶĐ͘
ϮϬϭϲͲϮϬϭϴ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞŚĂďWŚĂƐĞ/
Ψϭ͕Ϭϴϰ͕ϲϳϰ ΨϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϮϮй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
/WŶŐ
ϯͬϭϵͬϮϬϭϴ
/ŶƚĞƌƐƚĂƚĞ'ƌĂĚŝŶŐΘ
WĂǀŝŶŐ
͘ϯϵƚŚǀĞŶƵĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚ
ZĞĐŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
Ψϲϵϭ͕ϴϲϲ ΨϳϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϭϮй
Ψϱϴ͕ϱϲϳ Ψϰ͕ϲϭϱ Ψϵ͕ϱϮϭ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϳϮ͕ϳϬϯ
ϭϬϰй
Ψ;Ϯ͕ϳϬϯͿ
/WŶŐ
ϮͬϮϬͬϮϬϭϴ
>ŝĨĨĞǇůĞĐƚƌŝĐ
ŽǁŶƚŽǁŶdǁŝŶŬůĞ>ŝŐŚƚ
/ŶƐƚĂůůĂƚŝŽŶ
ΨϱϮϱ͕ϵϴϭ Ψϯϵ͕ϭϬϬ
ϳ͘ϰϯй
ΨϮϳ͕ϳϮϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϮϳ͕ϳϮϬ
ϳϭй
Ψϭϭ͕ϯϴϬ
/WŶŐ
ϭͬϭϲͬϮϬϭϴ
::ZŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
ϮϬϭϳŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ
ůŽĐŬ'ƌĂŶƚ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞŚĂď
Ψϲϰϱ͕ϲϰϬ Ψϲϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘Ϭϳй
Ψ;ϯ͕ϯϭϴͿ
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϲϱ͕ϬϬϬ
/WŶŐ
ϭͬϭϲͬϮϬϭϴ
sůĞĐƚƌŝĐ
ĂǇƚŽdƌĂŶƐŝƚdƌĂŝůWŚĂƐĞ/
ΨϮϵϬ͕ϰϬϬ ΨϮϳ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϯϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϮϳ͕ϬϬϬ
/WŶŐ
ϭϬͬϮͬϮϬϭϳ
'ŽůĚĞŶĂǇ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞƌŽƐƐǁĂůŬ/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚ
WƌŽũĞĐƚ
Ψϯϵϵ͕ϰϭϭ ΨϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘Ϭϭй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ
/WŶŐ
ϴͬϮϭͬϮϬϭϳ
sĂůůĞǇ^ůƵƌƌǇ^ĞĂů
/ŶƚĞƌŶĂƚŝŽŶĂů
ϮϬϭϲŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ůƵƌƌǇ^ĞĂů
Ψϳϲϰ͕ϭϮϬ Ψϳϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϴϮй
Ψ;ϳϳ͕ϱϭϯͿ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϳϱ͕ϬϬϬ
/WŶŐ
ϴͬϮϭͬϮϬϭϳ
/ŶƚĞƌƐƚĂƚĞ'ƌĂĚŝŶŐΘ
WĂǀŝŶŐ
ϯƌĚǀĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶ
Ψϭ͕Ϯϲϱ͕ϰϱϰ Ψϭϴϲ͕ϱϭϳ
ϭϰ͘ϳϰй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϭϴϲ͕ϱϭϳ
/WŶŐ
ϴͬϮϭͬϮϬϭϳ
/ŶƚĞƌƐƚĂƚĞ'ƌĂĚŝŶŐΘ
WĂǀŝŶŐ
ϮϬϭϲ^ƚƌĞĞƚZĞĐŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶͲ
sĂƌŝŽƵƐ>ŽĐĂƚŝŽŶƐ
Ψϭ͕ϵϴϴ͕Ϯϳϰ ΨϮϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘Ϭϲй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϮϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
/W&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϵͬϯͬϮϬϮϰ
ŶŐĞůĞƐ
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌ͕/ŶĐ
WŽůŝĐĞĞƉƚ͘WĂƌŬŝŶŐ^ƵƌĨĂĐĞ
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐ
Ψϯϱϵ͕ϭϰϵ Ψϯϲ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϬϮй
Ψϯϲ͕ϬϬϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϯϲ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬϬй
ΨͲ
/W&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϴͬϭϵͬϮϬϮϰ
ŶŐĞůĞƐ
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌ͕/ŶĐ
WŽůŝĐĞĞƉƚ͘ZŽŽĨ/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐ
Ψϭ͕ϲϬϳ͕ϰϯϱ ΨϭϲϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϵϱй
ΨϭϲϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϭϲϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬϬй
ΨͲ
/W&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϳͬϭϱͬϮϬϮϰ
ŶŐĞůĞƐ
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌ͕/ŶĐ
ĞƌĞƐĨŽƌĚĐĐĞƐƐŝďůĞŶƚƌǇ
ƉƌŽũĞĐƚ
Ψϳϵϲ͕ϮϬϬ ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϲ͘Ϯϴй
ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬϬй
ΨͲ
/W&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϳͬϭϱͬϮϬϮϰ
ŶŐĞůĞƐ
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌ͕/ŶĐ
>ĂŬĞƐŚŽƌĞWĂƌŬZĞƐƚƌŽŽŵZĞŵŽĚĞů Ψϰϵϱ͕ϯϯϮ Ψϳϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϱ͘ϭϰй
Ψϳϱ͕ϬϬϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϳϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬϬй
ΨͲ
tW
ϭϭͬϮϬͬϮϬϮϯ
ƵŬĞΖƐZŽŽƚŽŶƚƌŽů
ϮϬϮϯ^ĂŶŝƚĂƌǇ^ĞǁĞƌZŽŽƚ&ŽĂŵŝŶŐ
;EŽƌƚŚĂƐŝŶͿ
ΨϯϮϲ͕ϳϰϰ Ψϯϯ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϭϬй
Ψ;ϲ͕ϮϭϬͿ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϯϯ͕ϬϬϬ
tW
ϵͬϭϵͬϮϬϮϮ
ƵŬĞ͛ƐZŽŽƚŽŶƚƌŽů͕
/ŶĐ͘
ϮϬϮϮͲϮϯ^ĂŶŝƚĂƌǇ^ĞǁĞƌZŽŽƚ
&ŽĂŵŝŶŐ;^ŽƵƚŚĂƐŝŶͿ
Ψϱϭϳ͕ϱϴϯ ΨϱϮ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘Ϭϱй
Ψ;ϰ͕ϵϲϭͿ
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϱϮ͕ϬϬϬ
tW
ϲͬϲͬϮϬϮϮ
tĞƐƚůĂŶĚ
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌƐ
ĂƐŝŶΘsĂƌŝŽƵƐ>ŽĐĂƚŝŽŶƐ
^ĂŶŝƚĂƌǇ^ĞǁĞƌ/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐ
Ψϳ͕ϯϰϴ͕ϯϱϱ Ψϭ͕ϰϳϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϮϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨϰϬ͕ϬϯϬ ΨϭϬϭ͕ϰϰϵ ΨϮϵ͕ϰϭϭ ΨϭϮϲ͕ϵϮϲ Ψϭϳ͕ϬϮϰ Ψϲϴϳ͕Ϯϭϳ Ψϭ͕ϬϬϮ͕Ϭϱϲ
ϲϴй
Ψϰϲϳ͕ϵϰϰ
tW
ϱͬϭϲͬϮϬϮϮ
WŝƉĞĂŶĚWůĂŶƚ
^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ
ϮϬϮϮŝƚǇǁŝĚĞ^ĂŶŝƚĂƌǇ^ĞǁĞƌ
ůĞĂŶŝŶŐĂŶĚ/ŶƐƉĞĐƚŝŽŶ>ĂƌŐĞ
Ψϯϲϴ͕ϲϯϭ ΨϭϭϬ͕ϬϬϬ
Ϯϵ͘ϴϰй
Ψϳϯ͕ϲϬϬ ΨͲ ΨϭϬ͕ϱϳϱ ΨͲ Ψ;ϰϰ͕ϲϰϬͿ
ΨͲ Ψϴϰ͕ϭϳϱ
ϳϳй
ΨϮϱ͕ϴϮϱ
tW
ϳͬϭϵͬϮϬϮϭ
W^͕/ŶĐ͘ĚďĂǆƉƌĞƐƐ
WůƵŵďŝŶŐ
EĂƚƵƌĂů'ĂƐ>ŝŶĞZĞƉůĂĐĞŵĞŶƚĂŶĚ
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐ
ΨϮϱϬ͕ϳϭϭ ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϵϳй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϳϱϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϳϱϬ
ϯй
ΨϮϰ͕ϮϱϬ
tW
ϰͬϭϵͬϮϬϮϭ
:DŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
WĂĐŝĨŝĐŽƵůĞǀĂƌĚ&ŽƌĐĞDĂŝŶ
WƌŽũĞĐƚ
Ψϭ͕ϴϰϮ͕ϲϱϬ ΨϮϴϯ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϱ͘ϯϲй
Ψϭϰϱ͕ϱϭϭ ΨϭϮ͕ϭϭϰ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϭϱϳ͕ϲϮϱ
ϱϲй
ΨϭϮϱ͕ϯϳϱ
tW
ϰͬϱͬϮϬϮϭ
ƵŬĞ͛ƐZŽŽƚŽŶƚƌŽů͕
/ŶĐ͘
ϮϬϮϬͲϮϭ^ĂŶŝƚĂƌǇ^ĞǁĞƌZŽŽƚ
&ŽĂŵŝŶŐ;EŽƌƚŚĂƐŝŶͿ
ΨϮϱϭ͕ϳϮϲ ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϵϯй
Ψ;ϲ͕ϮϵϬͿ
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
tW
ϭϭͬϮͬϮϬϮϬ
tŽŽĚĂƌĚΘƵƌƌĂŶ
ĂƐŝŶϰŽůůĞĐƚŝŽŶ^ǇƐƚĞŵ
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐWƌŽĨĞƐƐŝŽŶĂů
ΨϮ͕Ϯϲϰ͕ϰϲϱ Ψϭϰϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϲ͘ϰϬй
ΨϮϳ͕ϲϰϯ Ψϰϯ͕ϮϮϰ Ψϰϵ͕ϮϬϳ Ψϭϳ͕ϴϳϵ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϭϯϳ͕ϵϱϯ
ϵϱй
Ψϳ͕Ϭϰϳ
tW
ϵͬϴͬϮϬϮϬ
W^͕/ŶĐ͘ĚďĂǆƉƌĞƐƐ
WůƵŵďŝŶŐ
ůĂŵŝŶŽZĞĂů^ĂŶŝƚĂƌǇ^ĞǁĞƌ
ZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶWƌŽũĞĐƚ
Ψϭ͕ϳϵϱ͕ϯϮϴ ΨϮϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϭ͘ϭϰй
Ψϰϱ͕Ϭϭϭ Ψϰϯ͕ϳϬϯ ΨϮϬ͕ϬϭϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϭϬϴ͕ϳϮϰ
ϱϰй
Ψϵϭ͕Ϯϳϲ
tW
ϱͬϰͬϮϬϮϬ
^ƵŶĚƚŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ͕
/ŶĐ͘
ttdWEƵƚƌŝĞŶƚZĞŵŽǀĂůĂŶĚtĞƚ
tĞĂƚŚĞƌDĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚhƉŐƌĂĚĞ
Ψϭϳ͕ϳϭϲ͕Ϭϰϵ Ψϭ͕ϲϰϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘Ϯϵй
ΨϭϳϮ͕ϱϬϮ Ψϳϱ͕Ϯϭϲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϮϰϳ͕ϳϭϴ
ϭϱй
Ψϭ͕ϯϵϳ͕ϮϴϮ
234 of 293

--- page 235 ---
ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚͬŝǀŝƐŝŽŶ
ĂƚĞ
ƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇ
ŝƚǇŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌͬsĞŶĚŽƌ
ĞƐĐƌŝƉƚŝŽŶ
ŵŽƵŶƚƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇ
ŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵĚŐĞƚ
йŽĨdŽƚĂů
ŵŽƵŶƚ
ƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ
ϭƐƚK
ŝŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϮŶĚK
ŝŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϯƌĚK
ŝŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϰƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϱƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϲƚŚΘďŽǀĞƌ
K/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞĐǇ
dŽƚĂů
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵƐĞĚ
йŽĨ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
hƐĞĚ
hŶƵƐĞĚ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
tW
ϱͬϰͬϮϬϮϬ
dĞƌƌĂƉŚĂƐĞ
ŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ͕/ŶĐ͘
tWttdWhƉŐƌĂĚĞĂŶĚ
ǆƉĂŶƐŝŽŶĂŶĚh&^WƌŽũĞĐƚƐ
Ψϱϴϴ͕ϯϯϬ ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϴ͘ϱϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
tW
ϯͬϮͬϮϬϮϬ
^ĐŚĂĂĨΘtŚĞĞůĞƌ
ĂƐƚ^ĂŶDĂƚĞŽ^ĂŶŝƚĂƌǇ^ĞǁĞƌ>ŝĨƚ
^ƚĂƚŝŽŶZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶWƌŽũĞĐƚͲ
Ψϭ͕ϭϵϬ͕ϳϲϬ ΨϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
Ϯ͘ϱϮй
Ψϲ͕ϰϮϲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϲ͕ϰϮϲ
Ϯϭй
ΨϮϯ͕ϱϳϰ
tW
ϭϬͬϮϭͬϮϬϭϵ
,ϮDͬ:ĂĐŽďƐ
ůĞĂŶtĂƚĞƌWƌŽŐƌĂŵ;tWͿ
WƌŽŐƌĂŵDĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ
Ψϭϳ͕ϲϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϵϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϱ͘ϭϭй
Ψϲϱ͕ϯϳϮ Ψϯϭ͕ϵϵϮ Ψϰϲ͕ϭϱϮ Ψϭϭ͕ϴϲϴ Ψϲ͕ϳϳϵ Ψϳϳ͕ϰϱϭ ΨϮϯϵ͕ϲϭϰ
Ϯϳй
ΨϲϲϬ͕ϯϴϲ
tW
ϵͬϯͬϮϬϭϵ
:DŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
ĂƐƚ^ĂŶDĂƚĞŽ^ĂŶŝƚĂƌǇ^ĞǁĞƌ>ŝĨƚ
^ƚĂƚŝŽŶZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶͲ
Ψϯ͕Ϯϴϲ͕ϰϬϰ ΨϯϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϲϱй
Ψϭϲϭ͕ϲϮϱ Ψϯϴ͕ϰϰϰ Ψϰϭ͕ϱϯϰ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϮϰϭ͕ϲϬϯ
ϲϵй
ΨϭϬϴ͕ϯϵϳ
tW
ϴͬϭϵͬϮϬϭϵ
WƌĞƐŝĚŝŽ^ǇƐƚĞŵƐ͕/ŶĐ͘ ĂƐŝŶ^ĂŶŝƚĂƌǇ^ĞǁĞƌůĞĂŶŝŶŐΘ
sŝĚĞŽ/ŶƐƉĞĐƚŝŽŶ
Ψϰϴϭ͕ϵϯϬ ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϯϳй
Ψϱ͕ϲϮϱ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϱ͕ϲϮϱ
ϭϭй
Ψϰϰ͕ϯϳϱ
tW
ϲͬϭϳͬϮϬϭϵ
ϮZŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ͕/ŶĐ
ĂƐŝŶ^ĂŶŝƚĂƌǇ^ĞǁĞƌ
ZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶͲŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
Ψϯ͕Ϯϭϳ͕ϰϴϬ ΨϯϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϴϴй
Ψϴϱ͕ϬϬϬ Ψϵ͕ϱϮϬ Ψϲϴ͕Ϯϱϰ Ψϭϰϰ͕ϰϬϬ ΨϮϮ͕ϱϬϬ Ψ;ϯϮϳ͕ϱϰϱͿ ΨϯϮϵ͕ϲϳϰ
ϵϰй
ΨϮϬ͕ϯϮϲ
tW
ϲͬϯͬϮϬϭϵ
ǆƉƌĞƐƐWůƵŵďŝŶŐ͕
/ŶĐ͘
ĂƐŝŶ^ĂŶŝƚĂƌǇ^ĞǁĞƌ
ZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶͲŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
Ψϯ͕ϴϱϯ͕ϭϳϮ ΨϰϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϯϴй
ΨϵϮ͕ϭϯϮ Ψϭ͕ϴϬϬ Ψϳ͕ϵϬϬ ΨϰϬ͕ϵϰϴ Ψϱϰ͕ϳϱϬ ΨϭϬϴ͕ϵϳϳ ΨϯϬϲ͕ϱϬϳ
ϳϳй
Ψϵϯ͕ϰϵϯ
tW
ϱͬϲͬϮϬϭϵ
^ƵŶĚƚŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ͕
/ŶĐ͘
ttdWEƵƚƌŝĞŶƚZĞŵŽǀĂůĂŶĚtĞƚ
tĞĂƚŚĞƌDĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚhƉŐƌĂĚĞ
Ψϯϯ͕Ϭϵϴ͕ϭϳϴ Ψϭ͕ϳϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϱ͘Ϯϭй
Ψϭϴ͕ϯϮϲ ΨϮϴϲ͕ϱϬϴ Ψ;ϭϬϱ͕ϳϰϴͿ Ψϲϲ͕ϳϱϭ Ψϲϯϭ͕ϰϱϮ Ψϳϴϴ͕Ϭϴϯ Ψϭ͕ϳϵϭ͕ϭϮϬ
ϭϬϰй
Ψ;ϲϲ͕ϭϮϬͿ
tW
ϱͬϲͬϮϬϭϵ
^ƵŶĚƚŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ͕
/ŶĐ͘
ttdWEƵƚƌŝĞŶƚZĞŵŽǀĂůĂŶĚtĞƚ
tĞĂƚŚĞƌ&ůŽǁDĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ
ΨϮ͕ϱϯϱ͕Ϭϰϰ ΨϮϬϮ͕ϰϮϳ
ϳ͘ϵϵй
Ψϲϯ͕ϵϮϱ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϲϯ͕ϵϮϱ
ϯϮй
Ψϭϯϴ͕ϱϬϮ
tW
ϵͬϭϳͬϮϬϭϴ
ƌĂƚƵƐ͕/ŶĐ͘
ĂƐŝŶϭŽůůĞĐƚŝŽŶ^ǇƐƚĞŵ
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
Ψϲ͕ϯϯϱ͕ϬϴϬ ΨϲϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϭϬй
ΨϮ͕ϲϭϮ Ψϭ͕ϵϮϳ Ψϭϱ͕ϬϬϬ Ψ;ϰϭϭ͕ϴϱϬͿ
ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϭϵ͕ϱϯϵ
ϯй
ΨϲϮϬ͕ϰϲϭ
tW
ϵͬϭϳͬϮϬϭϴ
tŽŽĚĂƌĚΘƵƌƌĂŶ
ĂƐŝŶϭŽůůĞĐƚŝŽŶ^ǇƐƚĞŵ
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐĞƐŝŐŶ
Ψϭ͕ϭϴϴ͕ϵϴϮ ΨϭϬϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϴ͘ϴϯй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϭϬϱ͕ϬϬϬ
tW
ϰͬϭϲͬϮϬϭϴ
sĂůĞŶƚŝŶĞ
ŽƌƉŽƌĂƚŝŽŶ
ϰϮŶĚǀĞWƵŵƉ^ƚĂƚŝŽŶZĞŚĂƉ
Ψϭ͕Ϯϴϯ͕ϯϲϵ ΨϭϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϭϯй
Ψϵϴ͕ϳϯϴ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϵϴ͕ϳϯϴ
ϳϲй
Ψϯϭ͕ϮϲϮ
tW
ϭϬͬϭϲͬϮϬϭϳ
ǆƉƌĞƐƐWůƵŵďŝŶŐ͕
/ŶĐ͘
ĂƐŝŶ^ĂŶŝƚĂƌǇ^ĞǁĞƌ
ZĞŚĂďŝůŝƚĂƚŝŽŶWƌŽũĞĐƚ
Ψϭ͕ϯϳϳ͕ϱϱϯ ΨϭϮϲ͕ϲϬϬ
ϵ͘ϭϵй
Ψϳϴ͕ϮϬϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϳϴ͕ϮϬϬ
ϲϮй
Ψϰϴ͕ϰϬϬ
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϴͬϮϭͬϮϬϮϯ
ŶŐĞůĞƐ
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌ͕/ŶĐ
tĂƐŚŝŶŐƚŽŶWĂƌŬĂƐŬĞƚďĂůůŽƵƌƚ
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐʹŽŶƚƌĂĐƚ
ΨϮϱϮ͕ϵϭϳ ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϴϴй
ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬϬй
ΨͲ
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϮͬϮϭͬϮϬϮϯ
EĞǁƚŽŶ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶΘ
&ŝĞƐƚĂDĞĂĚŽǁƐWĂƌŬZĞƐƚƌŽŽŵ
ZĞŵŽĚĞů
Ψϭϵϴ͕ϳϴϬ ΨϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϱ͘Ϭϵй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϭͬϭϳͬϮϬϮϯ
hƌďĂŶůĞǀĂƚŽƌ
^ĞƌǀŝĐĞ͕>>
ϮŶĚĂŶĚůĂŵŝŶŽWĂƌŬŝŶŐ'ĂƌĂŐĞ
ůĞǀĂƚŽƌDŽĚĞƌŶŝǌĂƚŝŽŶ
Ψϯϳϱ͕ϯϵϬ Ψϱϲ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϰ͘ϵϮй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϱϲ͕ϬϬϬ
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϵͬϭϵͬϮϬϮϮ
EĞǁƚŽŶŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
ΘDĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ͕/ŶĐ͘
<ŝŶŐZĞĐƌĞĂƚŝŽŶĞŶƚĞƌ&ĂŵŝůǇ
ŚĂŶŐŝŶŐZŽŽŵŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
ΨϮϳϬ͕ϵϱϰ ΨϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϰ͘ϳϲй
Ψϭϳ͕Ϭϵϯ Ψϭϳ͕ϯϬϲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϯϰ͕ϯϵϵ
ϴϲй
Ψϱ͕ϲϬϭ
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϰͬϭϵͬϮϬϮϭ
EĞǁƚŽŶŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
ĂŶĚDĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ͕
ĞŶƚƌĂůWĂƌŬdĞŶŶŝƐŽƵƌƚ'ĂƌĂŐĞ
ZĞƉĂŝƌ
Ψϭ͕ϱϲϵ͕ϲϯϰ ΨϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭ͘ϵϭй
ΨϮϯ͕ϵϭϴ ΨϱϮϲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϮϰ͕ϰϰϰ
ϴϭй
Ψϱ͕ϱϱϲ
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϭϮͬϳͬϮϬϮϬ
ŽŶƐŽůŝĚĂƚĞĚD
&ŝƌĞ^ƚĂƚŝŽŶϮϱŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
DĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ
ΨϴϱϮ͕ϲϳϮ Ψϭϭϵ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϯ͘ϵϲй
ΨϮϵ͕ϬϬϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϮϵ͕ϬϬϬ
Ϯϰй
ΨϵϬ͕ϬϬϬ
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϭϭͬϭϲͬϮϬϮϬ
hŶŝƐŽŶ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ
hŶŝƐŽŶŝŽ'ĂƐŽŶĚŝƚŝŽŶŝŶŐ^ǇƐƚĞŵ
;ŝŽE'ϭϬϬͿŵĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞ
ΨϯϬϰ͕ϴϬϰ ΨϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϴϰй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϲͬϮϵͬϮϬϮϬ
WƌŝĚĞ/ŶĚƵƐƚƌŝĞƐKŶĞ͕
/ŶĐ͘
ŝƚǇ,ĂůůZĞƐƚƌŽŽŵƐZĞŵŽĚĞů
ΨϮϵϮ͕ϰϭϵ ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϴ͘ϱϱй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϭϬͬϮϭͬϮϬϭϵ
^ĂƵƐĂůŽƌƉŽƌĂƚŝŽŶ
&ŝƌĞ^ƚĂƚŝŽŶϮϱ
Ψϲ͕ϭϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ Ψϲϳϯ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϵϲй
Ψϭϱ͕ϯϵϰ Ψϯ͕ϴϭϮ Ψϰ͕ϭϱϮ ΨϮϮ͕Ϭϳϭ Ψϱϭ͕ϵϲϮ Ψϲϱ͕ϰϰϯ ΨϭϲϮ͕ϴϯϱ
Ϯϰй
ΨϱϭϬ͕ϭϲϱ
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϭϬͬϮϭͬϮϬϭϵ
EĞǁƚŽŶŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
WŽůŝĐĞĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚ^ƵďƐƚĂƚŝŽŶΘ
^ůĞĞƉŝŶŐYƵĂƌƚĞƌƐ
Ψϱϯϰ͕ϯϬϱ Ψϱϰ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϭϭй
Ψϯϯ͕Ϭϰϳ Ψϵ͕ϴϱϵ Ψϱ͕ϮϮϵ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϰϴ͕ϭϯϱ
ϴϵй
Ψϱ͕ϴϲϱ
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϰͬϭϱͬϮϬϭϵ
&^tĞƐƚ͕/ŶĐ͘
E'sĞŚŝĐůĞDĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞ&ĂĐŝůŝƚǇ
ĞƐŝŐŶͬƵŝůĚ
ΨϮϳϳ͕ϭϴϯ ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϬϮй
Ψϭ͕ϴϲϲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϭ͕ϴϲϲ
ϳй
ΨϮϯ͕ϭϯϰ
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϴͬϮϬͬϮϬϭϴ
W'Θ
^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐdƵƌŶŬĞǇ
WƌŽŐƌĂŵ
Ψϯ͕ϮϬϮ͕ϵϰϴ Ψϭϵϳ͕ϬϱϮ
ϲ͘ϭϱй
Ψϱϵ͕ϭϲϮ ΨϮϱ͕Ϯϲϰ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϴϰ͕ϰϮϲ
ϰϯй
ΨϭϭϮ͕ϲϮϲ
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϴͬϮϬͬϮϬϭϴ
ůƚĂŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ
'ƌŽƵƉ
DĂŝŶ^ƚƌĞĞƚ'ĂƌĂŐĞZĞƉĂŝƌƐ
ΨϮϬϵ͕ϵϬϬ ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
Ϯϯ͘ϴϮй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϴͬϮϬͬϮϬϭϴ
^ŽƵƚŚǁĞƐƚ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
ϮŶĚΘZ'ĂƌĂŐĞ^ƚĂŝƌ
/ŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚƐ
ΨϯϮϭ͕ϭϬϬ ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϱ͘ϱϳй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϭϬͬϭϲͬϮϬϮϯ
ŶŐĞůĞƐ
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌ͕/ŶĐ
DĂŝŶ>ŝďƌĂƌǇWĂŝŶƚŝŶŐͲWŚĂƐĞϭ
Ψϰϯϱ͕ϲϰϴ Ψϭϰ͕ϬϬϬ
ϯ͘Ϯϭй
Ψϭϰ͕ϬϬϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϭϰ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬϬй
ΨͲ
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϴͬϮϭͬϮϬϮϯ
ŶŐĞůĞƐ
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌ͕/ŶĐ
&ŝƌĞ^ƚĂƚŝŽŶƐϮϭΘϮϯ^ŚŽǁĞƌ
ZĞŵŽĚĞůʹŽŶƚƌĂĐƚ
Ϯϰϰ͕Ϯϲϴ
Ψ
ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘Ϯϯй
ΨϮ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϮϯ͕ϬϬϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬϬй
ΨͲ
&ĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ
ϱͬϮͬϮϬϮϮ
ŶŐĞůĞƐŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌ
ŝƚǇ,ĂůůZĞƐƚƌŽŽŵZĞŵŽĚĞů
ΨϰϵϮ͕ϵϯϯ ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϭϰй
Ψ;Ϯ͕ϴϳϬͿ
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
&ŝĞůĚDĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞ
ϴͬϮϭͬϮϬϮϯ
ƵŵŵŝŶƐ/ŶĐ͘
DĂƌŝŶĂ>ĂŐŽŽŶWƵŵƉ^ƚĂƚŝŽŶʹ
ƉƉƌŽƉƌŝĂƚŝŽŶĂŶĚŐƌĞĞŵĞŶƚ
ΨϯϬϯ͕ϱϲϯ ΨϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϵ͘ϴϴй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
&ŝĞůĚDĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞ
ϵͬϭϲͬϮϬϭϵ
<ŽĨĨůĞƌůĞĐƚƌŝĐĂů
DĞĐŚĂŶŝĐĂů
DĂƌŝŶĂ>ĂŐŽŽŶWƵŵƉKǀĞƌŚĂƵů
ΨϱϰϮ͕ϮϬϰ Ψϰϲ͕ϲϰϬ
ϴ͘ϲϬй
Ψϯϳ͕ϴϬϰ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϯϳ͕ϴϬϰ
ϴϭй
Ψϴ͕ϴϯϲ
&ůĞĞƚ
ϱͬϭͬϮϬϮϯ
DƵŶŝĐŝƉĂů
DĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞ
DƵůƚŝŚŽŐŽŵƉĂĐƚDƵůƚŝͲWƵƌƉŽƐĞ
^ǁĞĞƉĞƌ
Ψϭϳϯ͕ϵϭϮ Ψϯϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϮϬ͘ϭϯй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϯϱ͕ϬϬϬ
&ůĞĞƚ
ϭϭͬϭϴͬϮϬϮϰ
dŚĞ&ŽƌĚ^ƚŽƌĞ^ĂŶ
>ĞĂŶĚƌŽ
WWĂƚƌŽůsĞŚŝĐǀůĞƐ
Ψϰϭϯ͕Ϭϲϭ Ψϰϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϴϵй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϰϱ͕ϬϬϬ
&ůĞĞƚ
ϭϬͬϮϭͬϮϬϮϰ
dƵƌĨ^ƚĂƌ͕/ŶĐ͘
dŽƌŽDĂƐƚĞƌZĞǀDŽǁĞƌ
Ψϭϰϰ͕ϰϬϴ ΨϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϮϬ͘ϳϳй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
235 of 293

--- page 236 ---
ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚͬŝǀŝƐŝŽŶ
ĂƚĞ
ƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇ
ŝƚǇŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌͬsĞŶĚŽƌ
ĞƐĐƌŝƉƚŝŽŶ
ŵŽƵŶƚƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇ
ŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵĚŐĞƚ
йŽĨdŽƚĂů
ŵŽƵŶƚ
ƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ
ϭƐƚK
ŝŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϮŶĚK
ŝŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϯƌĚK
ŝŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϰƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϱƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϲƚŚΘďŽǀĞƌ
K/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞĐǇ
dŽƚĂů
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵƐĞĚ
йŽĨ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
hƐĞĚ
hŶƵƐĞĚ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
&ůĞĞƚ
ϱͬϮϬͬϮϬϮϰ
WŝŶŶĂĐůĞKŝů͕/ŶĐ͘
'ĂƐŽůŝŶĞ&ƵĞůWƌŽĐƵƌĞŵĞŶƚĂŶĚ
ĞǀůŝǀĞƌǇ
Ψϱϭϱ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϵ͘ϰϮй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ
&ůĞĞƚ
ϲͬϭϱͬϮϬϮϬ
ŽƐĐŽKŝů͕/ŶĐ͘ĚďĂ
sĂůůĞǇKŝůŽŵƉĂŶǇ
ŝĞƐĞů&ƵĞůWƌŽĐƵƌĞŵĞŶƚĂŶĚ
ĞůŝǀĞƌǇ
Ψϭ͕ϰϯϱ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ ΨϭϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘ϰϱй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϭϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
&ůĞĞƚ
ϲͬϭϱͬϮϬϮϬ
sĂůůĞǇKŝůŽŵƉĂŶǇ
ŝĞƐĞů&ƵĞůWƌŽĐƵƌĞŵĞŶƚĂŶĚ
ĞůŝǀĞƌǇ
Ψϭ͕ϭϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ Ψϭϯϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϮ͘ϬϬй
Ψϳϱ͕ϬϬϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϳϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϱϲй
ΨϲϬ͕ϬϬϬ
&ůĞĞƚ
ϲͬϭϱͬϮϬϮϬ
WŝŶŶĂĐůĞKŝů͕/ŶĐ͘
'ĂƐŽůŝŶĞ&ƵĞůWƌŽĐƵƌĞŵĞŶƚĂŶĚ
ĞǀůŝǀĞƌǇ
Ψϭ͕ϳϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϭϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϳ͘ϭϰй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϭϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
&ůĞĞƚ
ϭϭͬϴͬϮϬϭϳ
&ŝƌƐƚsĞŚŝĐůĞƐ
^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ͕/ŶĐ͘
&ůĞĞƚDĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞ^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐʹ
ŵĞŶĚŵĞŶƚ
Ψϲ͕ϵϲϯ͕ϱϭϴ ΨϰϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϲ͘ϰϲй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϰϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
/d
ϭϭͬϮϬͬϮϬϮϯ
>ĞŶŽǀŽ/ŶĐ͘
WĞƌƐŽŶĂůŽŵƉƵƚĞƌZĞƉůĂĐĞŵĞŶƚƐ Ψϯϭϭ͕Ϭϯϳ Ψϰϲ͕ϲϱϲ
ϭϱ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϰϲ͕ϲϱϲ
/d
ϮͬϮϭͬϮϬϮϯ
>ĞŶŽǀŽ/ŶĐ͘
WĞƌƐŽŶĂůŽŵƉƵƚĞƌZĞƉůĂĐĞŵĞŶƚƐ ΨϮϯϭ͕ϲϯϯ Ψϯϰ͕ϳϰϱ
ϭϱ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϯϰ͕ϳϰϱ
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϲͬϲͬϮϬϮϮ
ƌŝƐƚĂů͘'ĂƌĐŝĂĚďĂ
WĞŶŝŶƐƵůĂDƵƐŝĐ
WƌĞͲ^ĐŚŽŽůDƵƐŝĐWƌŽŐƌĂŵ
ΨϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
Ϯϱ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϲͬϲͬϮϬϮϮ
ĂǇƌĞĂĚƵĐĂƚŝŽŶĂů
dŚĞĂƚĞƌŽŵƉĂŶǇ
^ƵŵŵĞƌzŽƵƚŚdŚĞĂƚĞƌWƌŽŐƌĂŵƐ
ΨϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
Ϯϱ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϲͬϲͬϮϬϮϮ
dŽĚĚŝƐƐůǇƚŚůĞƚŝĐƐ͕
>>
dĞŶŶŝƐ/ŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
Ψϭ͕ϴϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϭϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϴ͘ϯϯй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϭϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϯͬϮϭͬϮϬϮϮ
ZZDĞƐŝŐŶ'ƌŽƵƉ
ĞŶƚƌĂůWĂƌŬWůĂǇŐƌŽƵŶĚĂŶĚ
DĞŵŽƌŝĂů'ƌŽǀĞ&ŝŶĂůĞƐŝŐŶĂŶĚ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶDĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ^ĞƌǀŝĐĞ
ΨϱϳϬ͕Ϯϯϵ ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϴ͘ϳϳй
Ψϭϳ͕ϵϮϬ ΨϯϮ͕ϬϴϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬϬй
ΨͲ
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϵͬϮϬͬϮϬϮϭ
ŶĚƌĞŝŶŝƌŽƚŚĞƌƐ
/ŶĐ͘
ŽƌĞůWĂƌŬĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚWƌŽũĞĐƚ
Ψϭ͕ϳϮϵ͕ϲϬϳ Ψϭϭϵ͕ϰϭϰ
ϲ͘ϵϬй
Ψϲ͕ϰϳϮ Ψϰ͕ϱϵϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϭϭ͕ϬϲϮ
ϵй
ΨϭϬϴ͕ϯϱϮ
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϯͬϮͬϮϬϮϬ
ĚŐĞǁŽƌƚŚ
/ŶƚĞŐƌĂƚŝŽŶ͕>>͘
ŝƚǇǁŝĚĞƵŝůĚŝŶŐĐĐĞƐƐŽŶƚƌŽů
^ǇƐƚĞŵ
ΨϱϵϬ͕ϱϰϮ ΨϭϬϯ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϳ͘ϰϰй
Ψϯϱ͕Ϭϯϱ Ψϭϭ͕ϴϱϬ Ψϯ͕ϭϵϮ Ψϭϴ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϮ͕ϲϱϳ ΨϭϬ͕Ϯϴϲ Ψϴϭ͕ϬϮϬ
ϳϵй
ΨϮϭ͕ϵϴϬ
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϳͬϭϱͬϮϬϭϵ
'ŽŽĚůĂŶĚ>ĂŶĚƐĐĂƉĞ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶͬ&ŝĞůĚ
dƵƌĨh^͕/ŶĐ͘
<ŝŶŐWĂƌŬ^ǇƚŚĞŶƚŝĐdƵƌĨ
ŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
ΨϮ͕Ϭϭϲ͕ϭϯϱ ΨϴϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϯ͘ϵϳй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϴϬ͕ϬϬϬ
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϳͬϭϱͬϮϬϭϵ
ĂůůĂŶĚĞƌƐƐŽĐŝĂƚĞƐ
>ĂŶĚƐĐĂƉĞƌĐŚŝƚĞĐƚƐ
<ŝŶŐWĂƌŬ^ǇŶƚŚĞƚŝĐdƵƌĨĞƐŝŐŶĂŶĚ
DĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ
Ψϰϴϭ͕Ϭϲϴ Ψϳϭ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϰ͘ϳϲй
Ψϯ͕ϮϱϬ Ψϭϱ͕ϯϬϬ ΨϮ͕ϳϯϱ Ψϳ͕ϭϬϬ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨϮϴ͕ϯϴϱ
ϰϬй
ΨϰϮ͕ϲϭϱ
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϲͬϭϳͬϮϬϭϵ
ĂǇƌĞĂĚƵĐĂƚŝŽŶĂů
dŚĞĂƚĞƌŽŵƉĂŶǇ
^ƵŵŵĞƌŚŝůĚƌĞŶ͛ƐĂŶĚzŽƵƚŚ
dŚĞĂƚĞƌWƌŽŐƌĂŵ
ΨϭϮϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϮϬ͘ϴϯй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϴͬϮϬͬϮϬϭϴ
WĞŶŝŶƐƵůĂDƵƐŝĐ
dŽŐĞƚŚĞƌ
WĞŶŝŶƐƵůĂDƵƐŝĐdŽŐĞƚŚĞƌůĂƐƐĞƐ
ΨϭϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϵ͘Ϯϯй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϴͬϮϬͬϮϬϭϴ
dŽĚĚŝƐƐůǇƚŚůĞƚŝĐƐ͕
>>
dĞŶŶŝƐ/ŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
ΨϮϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϮ͘ϱϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϲͬϭϴͬϮϬϭϴ
ĂǇƌĞĂĚƵĐĂƚŝŽŶĂů
dŚĞĂƚĞƌŽŵƉĂŶǇ
^ƵŵŵĞƌdŚĞĂƚĞƌWƌŽŐƌĂŵ
ΨϭϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϳ͘ϴϲй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐ
ϮͬϮϬͬϮϬϭϴ
WƌŽĨĞƐƐŝŽŶĂůdƌĞĞ
ĂƌĞ
ϮϬϭϵ^ǇĐĂŵŽƌĞdƌĞĞWƌƵŶŝŶŐ
ΨϮϴϬ͕ϯϮϬ Ψϯϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϮ͘ϰϵй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϯϱ͕ϬϬϬ
WĂƌŬƐΘZĞĐƌĞĂƚŝŽŶ
ϮͬϱͬϮϬϮϰ
^ƚĂƉůĞƐŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶ
ŽŵƉĂŶǇ͕/ŶĐ͘
DĂƌƚŝŶ>ƵƚŚĞƌ<ŝŶŐ:ƌ͘WĂƌŬWƵŵƉ
^ŚĞĚ
ΨϮϰϵ͕ϰϬϰ Ψϯϳ͕ϰϭϬ
ϭϱ͘ϬϬй
Ψϲ͕Ϯϰϴ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϲ͕Ϯϰϴ
ϭϳй
Ψϯϭ͕ϭϲϮ
WŽůŝĐĞ
ϭϭͬϭϴͬϮϬϭϵ
>ĂǌWĂƌŬŝŶŐ
WĂƌŬŝŶŐŶĨŽƌĐĞŵĞŶƚ^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ
Ψϯ͕ϳϱϰ͕ϰϰϬ Ψϯϳϱ͕ϰϰϰ
ϭϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϯϳϱ͕ϰϰϰ
dƌĂŶƐƉŽƌƚĂƚŝŽŶ
WůĂŶŶŝŶŐŶŐ
ϭͬϮϭͬϮϬϮϬ
WĂƌŬŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ͕/ŶĐ͘
ŽǁŶƚŽǁŶWĂƌŬŝŶŐdĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇ
WƌŽũĞĐƚ
ΨϮϰϴ͕ϲϲϳ ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘Ϭϱй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ
dƌĂŶƐƉŽƌƚĂƚŝŽŶ
WůĂŶŶŝŶŐŶŐ
ϭϬͬϳͬϮϬϭϵ
/W^'ƌŽƵƉ͕/ŶĐ͘
^ĂŶDĂƚĞŽŽǁŶƚŽǁŶWĂƌŬŝŶŐ
dĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇWƌŽũĞĐƚ
Ψϭ͕ϰϱϵ͕ϰϬϱ ΨϮϭϴ͕ϵϭϭ
ϭϱ͘ϬϬй
ΨϮϰ͕ϯϵϬ Ψϭϳϭ͕Ϯϲϱ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ Ψϭϵϱ͕ϲϱϱ
ϴϵй
ΨϮϯ͕Ϯϱϲ
dƌĂŶƐƉŽƌƚĂƚŝŽŶ
WůĂŶŶŝŶŐŶŐ
ϭϭͬϮϬͬϮϬϭϳ
^ƚ͘&ƌĂŶĐŝƐůĞĐƚƌŝĐ
>ŽƐWƌĂĚŽƐ,ŝŐŚsŽůƚĂŐĞ^ƚƌĞĞƚůŝŐŚƚ
ŽŶǀĞƌƐŝŽŶ
Ψϭ͕Ϭϳϳ͕ϳϬϴ ΨϭϭϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ϭϬ͘Ϯϭй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϭϭϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ttdW
ϲͬϭϳͬϮϬϮϰ
<ĞŵŝƌĂtĂƚĞƌ
^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ͕/ŶĐ
&ĞƌƌŝĐŚůŽƌŝĚĞŚĞŵŝĐĂů^ƵƉƉůǇ
ΨϰϵϮ͕ϵϴϰ Ψϰϵ͕Ϯϵϴ
ϭϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϰϵ͕Ϯϵϴ
ttdW
ϲͬϭϳͬϮϬϮϰ
dŚĂƚĐŚĞƌŽŵƉĂŶǇŽĨ
ĂůŝĨŽƌŶŝĂ͕/ŶĐ͘
^ŽĚŝƵŵŝƐƵůĨŝƚĞŚĞŵŝĐĂů^ƵƉƉůǇ
Ψϯϱϵ͕ϱϳϬ Ψϯϱ͕ϵϱϳ
ϭϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϯϱ͕ϵϱϳ
ttdW
ϲͬϭϳͬϮϬϮϰ
hŶŝǀĂƌ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐh^͕
/ŶĐ͘
^ŽĚŝƵŵ,ǇƉŽĐŚůŽƌŝƚĞŚĞŵŝĐĂů
^ƵƉƉůǇ
Ψϭ͕ϰϯϴ͕ϮϴϬ Ψϭϰϯ͕ϴϮϴ
ϭϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϭϰϯ͕ϴϮϴ
ttdW
ϲͬϱͬϮϬϮϯ
^E&WŽůǇĚǇŶĞ
tĂƐƚĞǁĂƚĞƌdƌĞĂƚŵĞŶƚWůĂŶƚ
^ƵƉƉůǇŽĨ>ŝƋƵŝĚŵƵůƐŝŽŶWŽůǇŵĞƌ ΨϰϬϱ͕ϲϭϯ ΨϰϬ͕ϱϲϭ
ϭϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϰϬ͕ϱϲϭ
236 of 293

--- page 237 ---
ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚͬŝǀŝƐŝŽŶ
ĂƚĞ
ƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇ
ŝƚǇŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌͬsĞŶĚŽƌ
ĞƐĐƌŝƉƚŝŽŶ
ŵŽƵŶƚƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇ
ŽƵŶĐŝů
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵĚŐĞƚ
йŽĨdŽƚĂů
ŵŽƵŶƚ
ƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ
ϭƐƚK
ŝŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϮŶĚK
ŝŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϯƌĚK
ŝŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϰƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϱƚŚK
/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ϲƚŚΘďŽǀĞƌ
K/ŵƉĂĐƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞĐǇ
dŽƚĂů
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ƵƐĞĚ
йŽĨ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
hƐĞĚ
hŶƵƐĞĚ
ŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇ
ttdW
ϲͬϱͬϮϬϮϯ
<ĞŵŝƌĂtĂƚĞƌ
^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ͕/ŶĐ
tĂƐƚĞǁĂƚĞƌdƌĞĂƚŵĞŶƚWůĂŶƚ
^ƵƉƉůǇŽĨŚĞŵŝĐĂůƐͲĨĞƌƌŝĐ
ΨϯϭϮ͕ϮϭϮ Ψϯϭ͕ϮϮϭ
ϭϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϯϭ͕ϮϮϭ
ttdW
ϲͬϱͬϮϬϮϯ
hŶŝǀĂƌ
^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐh^͕/ŶĐ
tĂƐƚĞǁĂƚĞƌdƌĞĂƚŵĞŶƚWůĂŶƚ
^ƵƉƉůǇŽĨŚĞŵŝĐĂůƐͲƐŽĚŝƵŵ
ΨϰϬϰ͕ϱϭϳ ΨϰϬ͕ϰϱϭ
ϭϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
ΨϰϬ͕ϰϱϭ
ttdW
ϲͬϱͬϮϬϮϯ
,ĂƐĂ͕/ŶĐ͘
tĂƐƚĞǁĂƚĞƌdƌĞĂƚŵĞŶƚWůĂŶƚ
^ƵƉƉůǇŽĨŚĞŵŝĐĂůƐͲƐŽĚŝƵŵ
Ψϵϱϳ͕ϬϮϳ Ψϵϱ͕ϳϬϮ
ϭϬ͘ϬϬй
ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ ΨͲ
Ϭй
Ψϵϱ͕ϳϬϮ
ϭϴϴ͕ϱϲϯ͕ϲϬϳ
Ψ
ϭϲ͕ϵϴϮ͕ϵϯϰ
Ψ
ϵ͘Ϭϭй
ϳ͕ϱϯϰ͕ϵϰϲ
Ψ
ϰϰй
ϵ͕ϰϰϳ͕ϵϴϴ
Ψ
237 of 293

--- page 238 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  15
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671
File ID: 25-10257
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
August 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Annual Major Components – Contingency Reserve Increase
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an increase to the project contingency of the Digester 2 Coatings Project being performed by Brand Energy 
Services of California, Inc. by $160,000, for a total contingency reserve in the amount of $242,000; and authorize the Public 
Works Director to approve any necessary change orders within the approved contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The Clean Water Program (CWP) Annual Major Components (AMC) Projects includes several capital improvement projects 
that are currently under development or under construction and are intended to upgrade or rehabilitate aging 
infrastructure in the City’s sewer collection system and Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP). The AMC includes the 
WWTP Biogas and Biosolids Evaluation project which is being conducted by Brown and Caldwell (B&C). The scope includes 
condition assessment and inspection of both digesters. An initial condition assessment of Digester 2 was recently 
completed, and it revealed that the coatings of the draft tube and interior of the digester need repair. This will help 
prevent wear and tear related issues caused by the composition digester sludge and gas. 
Digester 2 is currently offline due to the mixer failure in 2022. The mixer is currently being repaired off site and is expected 
back in late August 2025. The WWTP is currently operating with only Digester 1. Digester 1 is the older of the two digesters 
and there is concern about its current condition. It is in the City’s best interest to bring Digester 2 online as soon as 
possible. Operating the plant with only Digester 1 causes an increase in the liquid content in the off-haul material. This has 
increased the cost of hauling the material by $26,000 per month. 
With Digester 2 offline, the City performed a cleaning and condition assessment of Digester 2. To facilitate the condition 
assessment, an internal scaffold was installed which was a costly effort. At the end of March 2025, after being notified that 
the inspection and evaluation was complete, the consultant recommended re-coating the digester and draft tube, as the 
existing coating was completely worn off. Without the coating, the interior of the digester vessel would be vulnerable to 
accelerated corrosion and degradation once Digester 2 is back in operation. Additionally, completing the coating work 
while the scaffold was still in place offered a clear economic advantage. 
On June 2, 2025, City Council approved an agreement with Brand Energy Services of California, Inc. (Brand Energy) to 
conduct the WWTP Digester 2 Coatings in an amount not to exceed $406,881.35 and a contingency of $82,000.00. 
Through a competitive bidding process, Brand Energy was the lowest bidder and considered competent and qualified. B&C 
also reviewed and accepted their coatings methodology. 
On June 16th, Brand Energy mobilized and began preparation work. After the crew completed the blasting process (the 
first step to coatings), B&C requested the City to view the bottom of the digester, which was not visible at the time of their 
238 of 293

--- page 239 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
inspection in March. The findings of their inspection revealed corroded and pitted areas of the steel. These needed to be 
welded before the coatings service could continue. Brand Energy had to pause their services until the welding was 
complete. The cost incurred in standby equipment rental and fuel costs to pause their services resulted in a negotiated 
amount of $80,000, which exhausted most of the project contingency.
Brand Energy resumed their services on July 29, 2025. The next step was a chloride wash of the vessel, and its purpose was 
to remove soluble salts to prevent under-film corrosion, salt blooming, adhesion issues, and blistering. Additionally, given 
the WWTP proximity to the Bay, exposure to salt water accelerates these risks. Therefore, performing a chloride wash and 
meeting chloride levels per the manufacturer’s specifications is essential. Brand Energy conducted the chloride wash; 
however, it did not achieve the required chloride levels at the lower bottom third of the tank. The elevated chloride 
concentration in this area was unanticipated. This is potentially due the shape of the tank where there is a higher 
concentration of chloride that accumulates per square foot at the bottom. 
The contractor initially requested an additional $166,932.32 for the additional wash and labor required for this work. After 
negotiations and discussions, the change order request was reduced to $81,683.95. 
Staff recommends $160,000 be authorized and added to the contingency amount to address this change order and for any 
other potential changes that may arise due to the nature of this work. The original duration of this work was 27 working 
days. This change has pushed the duration by five working days. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds available in the CWP WWTP Annual Major Components Project (46t090) budget to fund this 
increase to the contingency reserve. With the execution of Contract Change Order No.1 for $80,000 to cover the costs of 
standby equipment rental and fuel and this requested contingency increase of $160,000, the available contingency reserve 
balance will be $162,000. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Council action is exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, 
permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, 
or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None 
STAFF CONTACT
Thomas Ruark, Senior Project Manager 
truark@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7280
Tom Williams, Engineering Manager
twilliams@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 552-7307
 
Matthew Fabry, Director of Public Works
mfabry@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7303
239 of 293

--- page 240 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  16
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 18-6111
File ID: 25-10271
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
August 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Recreation Services Agreement — Contingency Reserve Increase
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a contingency reserve increase in the amount of $30,000 for the Recreation Service Agreement with Bay Area 
Educational Theater Company, 501(c)(3) for youth summer camps, revising the original contingency reserve from $25,000 
to $55,000; and authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to issue change orders within the contingency amount.  
BACKGROUND:
On May 20, 2024 City Council approved a Resolution and a Recreation Service Agreement with Bay Area Educational 
Theater Company, 501(c)(3) for the provision of youth theater summer camps. The services performed under the 
agreement commenced on June 16, 2024 and will be completed on August 31, 2025. The approved Resolution was for 
$254,000 for services rendered during the term of the agreement and authorized the Director of Parks and Recreation to 
execute the agreement and approve change orders up to $25,000. The amount was established based on previous year’s 
registration numbers. Due to the increase in program registration from 167 enrollments in 2024 to 202 enrollments in 
2025, the contingency amount needs to be amended in order to allow Bay Area Educational Theater Company to be 
compensated for the remainder of this fiscal year. 
The city compensates the Bay Area Educational Theater Company 70 percent of total course revenue, after deducting 
administrative surcharges from gross revenues along with 100 percent of material fees collected at the time of 
registration. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Course registration fees paid by participants cover all compensation to the contractor. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
240 of 293

--- page 241 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Tracy Brumett, Community Services Section Manager
tbrumett@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7443
241 of 293

--- page 242 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  17
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2111
File ID: 25-10250
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Information Technology Department
MEETING DATE:
August 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Customer Relationship Management Software and Services — Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution approving an alternative purchasing procedure to award a three-year agreement to Catalis Public 
Works & Citizen Engagement, LLC for a Customer Relationship Management software system in the amount $140,500; 
approve $38,500 supplemental appropriation for the IT Department’s operating budget from the General Fund unassigned 
fund balance; and authorize the Director of IT to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue 
amendments within the Agreement amount.
BACKGROUND:
City Council established a Council priority to explore the implementation of a Customer Relationship Management (CRM) 
system, or 311 system. Staff was asked to research methods by which the City currently receives service requests and 
back-end systems where requests are managed, and then to select a suitable CRM that will work with existing back-end 
systems. 
In response, a citywide CRM committee, consisting of representatives from each department, was established. The CRM 
committee developed requirements and issued a CRM request for proposals (RFP) on April 21, 2025. The City received 13 
proposals by the May 19, 2025 deadline. A subset of the CRM committee reviewed and scored all proposal submissions 
considering functionality, vendor experience and qualifications, implementation timeline, and support and maintenance. 
The scoring results for the top four vendors were as follows. 
Vendor
Overall score (out of 100)
Ranking
Catalis
94
1
NebuLogic Technologies
85
2
Verint Systems, Inc
82
3
Comcate
80
4
The four highest scoring vendors were invited to present demonstrations to the CRM subcommittee. The demonstrations 
took place on June 16, 17, and 18, 2025. The CRM subcommittee determined that these demonstrations confirmed the 
vendor rankings as scored from the submitted proposals. 
The full CRM project committee met on July 8 for a final discussion, and agreed to move forward with Catalis, the top-
ranked vendor. Catalis supplied three municipal agency customer references, who were interviewed by members of the 
CRM committee. Feedback from all of the submitted references was highly positive. The breakdown of Catalis’ costs are as 
follows. 
242 of 293

--- page 243 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Total
Request Management Enterprise – Software 
Subscription Fees 
$38,500
$38,500
$38,500
$115,500
Request Management Enterprise Implementation 
– One-Time Professional Services Fees
$25,000
 
 
$25,000
Yearly totals
$63,500
$38,500
$38,500
$140,500
San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.030 generally requires competitive bidding for agreements of $100,000 or more. 
San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to approve an alternative purchasing 
procedure when it finds doing so is in the best interest of the City. In this case, utilizing the RFP process is more beneficial 
to the City because the City is not required to accept the lowest bid, but rather may evaluate other factors in addition to 
price such as functionality, vendor experience and qualifications, implementation timeline, and support and maintenance. 
In addition, an RFP allows the City to consider proposals where the purpose and/or performance is known but for which no 
unique specification exists. This process is in the best interest of the City as proposals are considered upon ability along 
with cost savings to the City.
Based on the above, staff recommends awarding the CRM agreement to Catalis Public Works & Citizen Engagement, LLC 
because their proposal received the highest scoring based on the rating criteria, in addition to positive references with 
other municipal agencies. Project timelines will be laid out at the project kick-off meeting. It is anticipated to be a four-to-
six-month project.  We will conduct a communications campaign to bring awareness of the new system to residents, 
businesses and visitors.
BUDGET IMPACT:
In the adopted FY 2025-26 budget, $25,000 has been appropriated for the annual subscription fee based on preliminary 
estimates. If the proposed CRM agreement is approved, additional budget of $38,500 will be required to cover the 
subscription fee and one-time implementation costs, and years 2 and 3 subscription fees will be incorporated into future 
year operating budgets of the Information Technology Department.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Pete Owen, Director, Information Technology
powen@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7074
243 of 293

--- page 244 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE TO AWARD A THREE-YEAR AGREEMENT TO CATALIS 
PUBLIC WORKS & CITIZEN ENGAGEMENT, LLC FOR CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE IN 
THE AMOUNT OF $140,500 AND APPROVING A $38,500 SUPPLEMENTAL BUDGET APPROPRIATION FROM THE 
GENERAL FUND TO THE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEPARTMENT OPERATING BUDGET
WHEREAS, the City Council established a Council priority to explore the implementation of a Customer 
Relationship Management (CRM) system, or 311 system; and
WHEREAS, staff were asked to research methods by which the City currently receives service requests 
and back-end systems where requests are managed, and then to select a suitable CRM that will work with 
existing back-end systems; and
WHEREAS, a citywide CRM committee was established, which developed requirements and released a 
CRM request for proposals (RFP) on April 21, 2025; and
WHEREAS, the CRM committee received 13 proposals from qualified vendors by the May 19, 2025 
deadline; and
WHEREAS, the CRM committee reviewed and scored all proposal submissions considering functionality, 
vendor experience and qualifications, implementation timeline, and support and maintenance; and
WHEREAS, the CRM committee invited the four highest scoring proposals to provide demonstrations; 
and 
WHEREAS, the CRM Committee selected Catalis Public Works & Citizen Engagement, LLC as the 
recommended vendor based on it having the highest proposal rating and excellent customer references; and
WHEREAS, in the adopted FY 2025-26 budget, $25,000 has been appropriated for the annual 
subscription fee based on preliminary estimates; and
WHEREAS, a supplemental appropriation of $38,500 from the General Fund unassigned fund balance to 
the Information Technology Department’s operating budget is required to cover the subscription fee and one-
time implementation costs; and 
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.030 generally requires competitive bidding for
contacts of $100,000 or more; and
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to approve an
alternative purchasing procedure when it is in the best interest of the City; and
WHEREAS, utilizing the RFP process for these services is in the best interests of the City because the City 
is not required to accept the lowest bid, but rather, may evaluate other factors in addition to price such as 
functionality, vendor experience and qualifications, implementation timeline, and support and maintenance; 
and
WHEREAS, an RFP allows the City to consider proposals where the purpose and/or performance is
known but for which no unique specification exists; and
244 of 293

--- page 245 ---
WHEREAS, based on these circumstances, staff recommends award of a three-year agreement to Catalis 
Public Works & Citizen Engagement, LLC in the amount of $140,500 for CRM software and services.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, FINDS and RESOLVES 
that:
1.
Adoption of this resolution approving an alternative purchasing procedure to award an 
agreement to Catalis Public Works & Citizen Engagement, LLC is not a project subject to CEQA, 
because it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that approval of an agreement 
for Customer Relationship Management software may have a significant effect on the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).)
2.
The City Council authorizes a supplemental appropriation in the amount of $38,500 from the 
General Fund unassigned fund balance to the Information Technology Department’s operating 
budget.
3.
In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3), the award of an 
agreement to Catalis Public Works & Citizen Engagement, LLC based on using an RFP process is 
in the City’s best interest for these reasons:
a.
The RFP process is more beneficial to the City because the City is not required to accept the 
lowest bid but rather may evaluate other factors in addition to price such as functionality, 
vendor experience and qualifications, implementation timeline, and support and 
maintenance.
b.
The RFP process allows the City to consider proposals where the purpose and/or 
performance is known but for which no unique specification exists.
c.
The RFP process is in the best interest of the City as proposals are considered upon ability 
along with cost savings to the City.
4.
The award of a three-year agreement to Catalis Public Works & Citizen Engagement, LLC for 
Customer Relationship Management software in the amount of $140,500, is approved.
5.
The Director of Information Technology is authorized execute the agreement in substantially the 
form presented.
245 of 293

--- page 246 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 1 of 16 
Rev 5/24 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
AGREEMENT WITH CATALIS PUBLIC WORKS & CITIZEN ENGAGEMENT, LLC 
FOR 
MASTER TECHNOLOGY-RELATED PROFESSIONAL SERVICES  
 
This Professional Services Agreement (hereinafter “Agreement”), made as of this day of 
____________________, is entered into by and between Catalis Public Works & Citizen Engagement, LLC, 
(hereinafter referred to as “VENDOR”), a Limited Liability Company, and the City of San Mateo (hereinafter 
referred to as “CUSTOMER”), a municipal corporation in the State of California. 
 
 
RECITALS: 
 
A. CUSTOMER desires certain equipment, software, maintenance and support services hereinafter described. 
 
B. CUSTOMER desires to engage VENDOR to provide these professional services by reason of its qualifications 
and experience for performing such services and VENDOR has offered to provide the required services on the 
terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 – DEFINITIONS 
 
1.1 
“Acceptance” means that CUSTOMER has accepted in writing that the Professional Services, Deliverables 
or other goods and services as agreed to as part of this Agreement were performed and delivered in accordance 
with the Statement of Work or Change Order.  CUSTOMER will create a list of non-conforming elements which 
must be corrected before Acceptance, except for minor or inconsequential errors, and such Acceptance shall not 
be unreasonably withheld. If Professional Services are for the implementation of a software or a system, then 
within sixty (60) days of the Go Live Date (as defined below) CUSTOMER will create a list of Defects (as defined 
below) which must be corrected before Acceptance, except for minor or inconsequential errors. 
 
1.2 
“Applicable Specifications” means the functional, operational and other characteristics of the Services or 
deliverables, timeline, milestones, assumptions, testing and validation criteria, and other specifications as 
described in the Statement of Work or Change Order.  
 
1.3 
”Change Order” is a mutual agreement in writing by both Parties changing the scope of the project. The 
Change Order will include information such as but not limited to the date executed, due date, scope of work, 
assumptions, agreed upon cost, hours and rates, job responsibilities, deliverables, verification and acceptance 
testing, payment terms, requestor, and approving parties).  
 
1.4 
“Customization” means but is not limited to all code, software modifications or computer programming to 
the licensed Software developed or modified under the terms of this Agreement or related Change Order or 
Statement of Work. 
 
246 of 293

--- page 247 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 2 of 16 
Rev 5/24 
 
1.5 
“Defect” means (i) an omission in software code causing the software or integration links to operate such 
that it is not in compliance with the Applicable Specifications or (ii) the media on which the product(s) is 
delivered is damaged or corrupted such that the software does not load properly, (iii) the documentation 
contains gaps and/or erroneous information with regard to the deliverables, (iv) the services delivered did not 
meet the Applicable Specifications or were not performed in a professional manner consistent with experts and 
professionals in the industry, or (v) errors, problems or other irregularities in the deliverables. 
 
1.6 
“Effective Date” means the date that this Agreement takes effect, which unless otherwise stated, will be 
the date set forth on Page One of this Agreement upon being signed by duly authorized representatives of 
VENDOR and CUSTOMER. 
 
1.7 
“Go Live Date” is the date of the first production use of the licensed Software or deliverables from this 
Agreement by Customer where the Customer is using the Software or deliverable to manage its normal business 
operations. Prototype development and testing, data conversion and testing, initial system training, and 
conference room pilot operations and testing take place before the Go Live Date. 
 
1.8 
“Professional Services” means all services provided by VENDOR which are primarily intellectual and 
mental, and performed by qualified personnel. Such services may include without limitation project planning, 
consulting, project management, data conversion, training, programming, and development of Customizations. 
 
1.9 
“Software” means the Vendor’s computer software program(s) licensed by CUSTOMER and identified in 
the software license agreement. 
 
1.10 ”Statement of Work” means a document mutually developed and agreed upon by both parties which 
describes in detail the services to be provided by Vendor, implementation schedule and phases, responsibilities 
of Customer and Vendor, description and schedule of training, detailed list of professional services fees and 
expenses by major work task, acceptance plans, assumptions, risks, training schedule and description, etc. 
 
SECTION 2 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
2.1 
The scope of services to be performed by VENDOR under this Agreement is as described in the Statement 
of Work in Exhibit A of this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
2.2       Customizations. 
 
2.2.1 
All CUSTOMER initiated Customizations shall be made using the Change Order process described 
herein and shall be compensated at VENDOR’s then prevailing, or other mutually agreeable rates, on a 
time and materials basis. 
 
2.2.2 
Once installed and Accepted, all Customizations shall be considered part of the Licensed and 
Covered Software. 
 
247 of 293

--- page 248 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 3 of 16 
Rev 5/24 
 
2.2.3 
CUSTOMER shall, within sixty (60) days of Acceptance of any Customization pay VENDOR a 
mutually agreeable and pro-rated additional Maintenance and Support Fee for any Customization. 
 
2.3 
Customer’s Rights to Engage Other Consultants.  CUSTOMER reserves the right to engage other 
consultants in connection with this Agreement.  Any third party receiving confidential information or trade 
secrets under this paragraph must agree to the same prohibition against disclosure as CUSTOMER and VENDOR 
may require that any such third party execute a non-disclosure agreement which includes widely accepted and 
reasonable non-disclosure terms. 
 
2.4 
Progress.  VENDOR shall keep the Project Manager and/or his/her duly authorized designee informed on a 
regular basis regarding the status and progress of the Services, activities performed and planned hereunder, and 
any meetings that have been scheduled or are desired relative to the Professional Services or relative to this 
Agreement. 
 
2.5 
Scheduling.  VENDOR shall generally have no obligation to work any particular schedule, unless otherwise 
provided in this Agreement or in the Statement of Work. VENDOR shall coordinate the provision of the 
Professional Services with CUSTOMER in such a fashion and schedule so as to achieve the results sought under 
the terms of this Agreement. 
 
2.6 
Statement of Work.  The Services, such as but not limited to training, software implementation, software 
development and customization, consulting, and interface development, will be performed pursuant to and in 
accordance with the Statement of Work attached hereto as Exhibit A of this Agreement. 
 
2.7 
Change Orders.  Change Orders applicable to the Statement of Work shall be negotiated and implemented 
as described in the Statement of Work or as otherwise agreed to by the duly authorized representatives of both 
parties. VENDOR shall use its best efforts to provide all costs, Third Party Software, additional platform and 
infrastructure requirements, additional training requirements, and any other additional component or services 
within fifteen (15) business days of receipt of a Change Order. 
 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF VENDOR 
 
3.1 
Vendor Responsibilities.  VENDOR warrants that it has all requisite power and authority to conduct its 
business and to execute and deliver, and to perform all of its obligations under this Agreement.  
 
VENDOR warrants that the individual who has signed this Agreement representing VENDOR has the legal power, 
right and authority to enter into this Agreement so as to bind VENDOR to perform the conditions contemplated 
herein. 
 
VENDOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and coordination of all work 
furnished by VENDOR under this Agreement.  VENDOR shall, without additional compensation, correct or revise 
any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
VENDOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this Agreement. 
 
VENDOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform the services of 
VENDOR. 
 
VENDOR agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, 
which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price Index escalator. 
248 of 293

--- page 249 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 4 of 16 
Rev 5/24 
 
 
3.2 
Vendor’s Responsibilities for Costs and Expenses.  VENDOR shall be responsible for all costs and expenses 
incurred by VENDOR, personnel of VENDOR, and subcontractors of VENDOR, in connection with this Agreement 
and performance of the Professional Services, including, without limitation, payment of salaries, fringe benefit 
contributions, payroll taxes, withholding taxes and other taxes or levies and all other amounts due to its 
personnel and subcontractors, office overhead expenses, travel expenses except as otherwise agreed, telephone 
and other telecommunications expenses, and document reproduction expenses.  
 
3.3 
Travel Expenses.  Travel and related expenses shall be necessary, reasonable and consistent with 
CUSTOMER’s travel policies, and shall be mutually agreed upon in advance. CUSTOMER shall not be responsible 
for any VENDOR travel time 
 
3.4 
Vendor Personnel and Professional Services Warranty.  The Services shall be performed by VENDOR or 
under its supervision, and VENDOR shall be responsible for all actions and work product(s) of the personnel 
working on behalf of VENDOR in the performance of this Agreement. 
 
VENDOR represents that it possesses the professional and technical personnel required to perform the 
Professional Services for this Agreement and as defined in the Statement of Work. VENDOR warrants that all 
Services will be performed diligently and in a timely, professional and workmanlike manner by experienced and 
competent personnel with the care and skill ordinarily exercised by members of the profession practicing under 
similar conditions using all common and widely accepted practices and professional standards for Services such 
as but not limited to installing, implementing, deploying, and maintaining the Product. 
 
VENDOR represents and warrants that (i) none of the Services or any part of this  Agreement is or will be 
inconsistent with any obligation VENDOR may have to others; (ii) the Services, deliverables or work products as 
they are delivered to CUSTOMER will not infringe, misappropriate or violate any intellectual property or other 
right of any person or entity; and (iii) VENDOR has the full right to provide CUSTOMER with the assignments and 
rights provided herein (including without limitation, through execution of appropriate written agreements with 
its employees, agents and subcontractors). 
 
3.5 
Remedies for Non-Performance of Services.  If any element of the Services does not conform to the 
warranty on Professional Services, then CUSTOMER shall notify VENDOR in writing of such nonconformance. 
VENDOR shall timely re-perform such element in a manner that does conform, provided, however, that if such 
re-performance is impracticable, VENDOR shall timely refund the fees allocable to such nonconforming element. 
At its sole discretion, CUSTOMER may withhold payment for non-conformance to professional standards, 
excessive or unauthorized costs, or defects in deliverables until remedied, and no interest, penalties or late fees 
shall apply to such withholdings.  
 
3.6 
Cooperation with Customer’s Project Manager.  As required herein or in the Statement of Work, 
CUSTOMER shall designate a Project Manager for the project effort to implement the Product. VENDOR shall 
work closely and cooperate fully with CUSTOMER’s designated Project Manager, and any other agencies which 
may have jurisdiction over or interest in the Software and related Professional Services. The Project Manager 
will administer this Agreement on behalf of CUSTOMER. The Project Manager, or his/her designee, shall be the 
principal officer of CUSTOMER for liaison with VENDOR, and shall review and give approval to the details of the 
Scope of Work and Services as described in the Statement of Work and any Change Orders or Amendments to 
this Agreement. The Project Manager shall be specified in the Statement of Work which is mutually agreed to 
between CUSTOMER and VENDOR. CUSTOMER reserves the right to change its Project Manager.  
 
249 of 293

--- page 250 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 5 of 16 
Rev 5/24 
 
3.7 
Vendor Marketing.  No news releases, including photographs, public announcements, or confirmations of 
the same, relating to any part of the subject matter of this Agreement or any phase of providing the Professional 
Services shall be made without prior written consent of CUSTOMER. The information which VENDOR acquires 
related to its performance of the Professional Services shall be kept confidential unless the release of 
information is authorized in writing by CUSTOMER. 
 
3.8 
Electronic Format for Supporting Documentation.  All VENDOR and Third Party Supporting 
Documentation provided electronically shall be provided in a form and format that does not require CUSTOMER 
to purchase additional Third Party Software to view and print the Supporting Documentation. 
3.9 
Virus Free.  VENDOR warrants that to the best of its knowledge there are no viruses, backdoor entries, 
time bombs, unauthorized programming, lockout devices or other disruptive technologies being shipped with 
deliverables, products or software in this Agreement. CUSTOMER will notify VENDOR in writing if it detects such 
disruptive technologies and will provide any information that it may have regarding the nature of such non-
conformance. VENDOR will correct such non-conformance in a timely manner and at no cost to CUSTOMER. 
 
SECTION 4 - DUTIES OF CUSTOMER 
 
CUSTOMER shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
CUSTOMER shall examine documents submitted by VENDOR and shall render decisions pertaining thereto 
promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of VENDOR'S work. 
 
SECTION 5 - TERM 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence upon execution of this Agreement and be 
completed on September 1, 2028. Extensions will be by amendment only. 
 
SECTION 6 - PAYMENT 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment request 
upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full performance of the 
services set forth in the Scope of Services, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR a fee in an amount of $140,500, 
pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit A. 
 
SECTION 7 – TERMINATION 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CUSTOMER shall otherwise have by law, CUSTOMER shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon 90 days' written 
notice to VENDOR.  VENDOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon receipt of said written notice. 
Either party may terminate this Agreement upon sixty (60) days prior written notice to the other in the event of 
the other's failure to cure a material breach within thirty (30) days after receipt of the terminating 
party's written notice of default concerning the same. 
 
 
250 of 293

--- page 251 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 6 of 16 
Rev 5/24 
 
SECTION 8 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
All documents prepared by VENDOR in the performance of this Agreement are and shall be the property of 
CUSTOMER, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not. Vendor retains ownership of all 
Vendor Intellectual Property that Vendor delivers to City pursuant to the Services performed. The right of City to 
use the Software and associated Software-related documentation is for City’s internal use only and limited to 
the field of use described in the Agreement. No title or ownership in the Software or Software-related 
documentation is transferred to City. City shall not copy or in any way duplicate the Software, except for 
necessary backup and archival procedures approved by Vendor in advance and in writing. Only City’s employees 
and necessary contractors acting in the proper scope of their services to City may access or use the Software or 
Software-related documentation. City shall not adapt, modify, reverse engineer, decompile, or disassemble, in 
whole or in part, any of the Software and/or any Software-related documentation. 
  
SECTION 9 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
All reports and documents prepared by VENDOR in connection with the performance of this Agreement are 
confidential until released by CUSTOMER to the public.  VENDOR shall not make any such documents or 
information available to any individual or organization not employed by VENDOR or CUSTOMER without the 
written consent of CUSTOMER before any such release. 
 
The following shall not be considered Confidential or Proprietary Information:  (i) any information in the public 
domain at the time of its communication thereof to either party by the other party; (ii) any information which 
enters the public domain, through no fault of the receiving party subsequent to the time of its communication 
to the receiving party; (iii)  any information which is obtained in good faith by either party from a third party, 
provided such third party is not bound by a confidentiality agreement with Vendor or Customer, as applicable; 
(iv) information that was already known to that party prior to the date of disclosure to that party; (v) 
information which the receiving party establishes was developed independently of confidential or proprietary 
information furnished to it; and (vi) information that is required to be disclosed to any court, government 
authority or regulatory authority or pursuant to requirement of any state or federal law. 
 
SECTION 10 - INTEREST OF VENDOR 
 
VENDOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, direct or indirect, 
financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the performance of the services under 
this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - VENDOR'S STATUS 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, VENDOR shall at all 
times be considered an independent Vendor as defined in Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the 
CUSTOMER as to the result of the work but not the means by which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein 
shall be construed to make VENDOR an agent or employee of CUSTOMER while providing services under this 
Agreement. 
 
251 of 293

--- page 252 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 7 of 16 
Rev 5/24 
 
SECTION 12 – PERSONNEL REVIEW AND APPROVAL 
 
VENDOR shall have the right to assign personnel to this Agreement, but CUSTOMER shall have the right of 
review of VENDOR’s personnel assigned to the project, including all subcontractors. This includes but is not 
limited to CUSTOMER’s ability to require a timely replacement.  
 
VENDOR warrants that each person assigned to this Agreement will be for the duration of the project with full-
time efforts except as specified or agreed to by CUSTOMER, or due to the following exceptions: illness, death, 
termination or resignation from VENDOR. No subcontractors shall be used on the project without the express 
written approval of CUSTOMER. 
 
SECTION 13 - INDEMNITY 
 
VENDOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents 
from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of VENDOR’s performance of 
this Agreement, except those claims arising out of City’s sole negligence or willful misconduct. VENDOR agrees 
to defend City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The 
VENDOR’S duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement. To the extent 
allowable by law, in no event shall either party’s aggregate liability under this Agreement exceed the Fees paid 
to Vendor under this Agreement. Neither party shall be responsible in any event for damages resulting from loss 
of data, loss of profits, and/or loss of use of product, or for any incidental, special, or consequential damages, 
even if advised of the possibility of such damages. This limitation of a party’s liability shall apply regardless of the 
form of action, whether in contract or tort, including negligence. 
 
SECTION 14 - INSURANCE 
 
VENDOR shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified in Exhibit B of this 
agreement. 
 
SECTION 15 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of VENDOR and cannot be 
transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by VENDOR without the prior written consent of CUSTOMER. 
 
SECTION 16 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF VENDOR 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that VENDOR is skilled in the 
performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CUSTOMER relies upon the skill of 
VENDOR to do and perform the work , and VENDOR agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of 
VENDOR's work by CUSTOMER does not operate as a release of VENDOR from said obligation. 
 
252 of 293

--- page 253 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 8 of 16 
Rev 5/24 
 
SECTION 17 - WAIVERS 
 
The waiver by either Party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of 
any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such term, covenant, condition, 
ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of any other term, covenant, 
condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of any other term, 
condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either Party of any fee or other money which may 
become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding breach or violation by the other 
Party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 18 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing of a cost bill) by 
the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.  The above $5000 limit 
is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless 
of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It is the intent of this provision that neither party shall 
have to pay the other more than $5000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the 
provisions of this Agreement.   
 
SECTION 19 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
VENDOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with applicable regulations 
governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither VENDOR nor any of its sub-Vendors shall discriminate in the 
employment of any person because of race, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical 
condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the 
California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 20 – MEDIATION 
 
20.1  Dispute Resolution.  In the event of any dispute between the parties hereunder, the parties shall first 
attempt to resolve the dispute at the Project Manager level representing CUSTOMER and his/her equivalent 
representing VENDOR. If the dispute is not resolved at this level within ten (10) business days of the date the 
other party is first informed of the dispute in writing, the parties shall attempt to resolve the dispute at the City 
Manager level and his/her equivalent representing VENDOR. The use of the foregoing procedure is a condition 
precedent to the commencement of any mediation or other legal proceedings hereunder. 
 
20.2   Mediation.  Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any Party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation. The Parties shall meet in mediation within thirty (30) days of a request. The mediator shall be agreed 
to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the Parties shall each submit one name from 
mediators listed by the American Arbitration Association, the California State Board of Mediation and 
Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a “blindfold” process. 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the Parties. Neither Party shall be deemed the prevailing party. 
No Party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation and making a good faith 
attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once commenced by a meeting with the 
mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but not more than sixty (60) days, unless the 
parties extend the maximum time. 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to mediation.  The 
253 of 293

--- page 254 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 9 of 16 
Rev 5/24 
 
parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating 
parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one name from mediators listed by the 
American Arbitration Association, the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-
upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a "blindfolded" process. 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the prevailing party.  
No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation and making a good faith 
attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once commenced by a meeting with the 
mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum 
time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 21 - LITIGATION 
 
VENDOR shall testify at CUSTOMER'S request if litigation is brought against CUSTOMER in connection with 
VENDOR'S services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by VENDOR, or is based upon VENDOR'S 
wrongdoing, CUSTOMER shall compensate VENDOR for preparation for testimony, testimony, and travel at 
VENDOR'S standard hourly rates at the time of actual testimony. 
 
SECTION 22 - NOTICES 
 
All notices, requests, consents and approvals hereunder shall be in writing and shall be delivered with proof of 
receipt where official proof of receipt can be validated, postage prepaid, and addressed as follows: 
 
To CUSTOMER: 
Peter K. Owen 
City of San Mateo  
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA, 94403 
  
To VENDOR: 
Catalis Public Works & Citizen Engagement, 
LLC 
Attn: Mike LeBeau  
3025 Windward Plaza, Suite 200 
Alpharetta, GA  30005 
 
Either party may change its address or addressee for the purposes of this paragraph by notice. Notice given in 
accordance with this paragraph shall be deemed given when received. 
 
SECTION 23 – TOBACCO FREE STANDARDS 
 
CUSTOMER has adopted a policy which prohibits the use of tobacco products within CUSTOMER buildings, 
vehicles or on CUSTOMER property. VENDOR employees, subcontractors, or employees of subcontractors shall 
abide by the policy during the performance of this Agreement. 
 
254 of 293

--- page 255 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 10 of 16 
Rev 5/24 
 
SECTION 24 – TAXES 
 
CUSTOMER shall be liable for all federal, state, municipal or other governmental taxes, duties charges or costs, 
however designated, now or hereinafter imposed, upon the Services and deliverables of this Agreement 
exclusive, however, of taxes based upon net income, gross income or net worth of VENDOR; taxes based upon 
the franchise of VENDOR; taxes based upon any equipment or software, other than that which is licensed in this 
Agreement, which are owned by the VENDOR; or taxes paid by or for any employee of the VENDOR. CUSTOMER 
reserves the right to review the tax charges and, in no event, will be responsible to pay more than is appropriate 
or actually paid under applicable law. VENDOR will pass on to CUSTOMER any tax refunds received with respect 
to the CUSTOMER’s previous payment or reimbursement of applicable taxes hereunder.  
 
SECTION 25 – COOPERATION/FURTHER ACTS 
 
The parties shall fully cooperate with one another in attaining the purposes of this Agreement and, in 
connection therewith, shall take any such additional further acts and steps and sign any such additional 
documents as may be necessary, appropriate and convenient as related thereto. 
 
SECTION 26 – TRANSITION COOPERATION 
 
Upon termination of this Agreement for any reason, VENDOR agrees to, upon CUSTOMER’s written request: 
1. Provide sufficient efforts and cooperation to ensure an orderly and efficient transition of services to 
CUSTOMER or its contractor without degradation of the quality and level of VENDOR’s performance of its 
services to CUSTOMER. 
2. Return to CUSTOMER all data records, logs and documentation in a mutually agreeable format, 
including full disclosure of the custom software code and system design, third party suppliers and other 
pertinent information about the services required to perform the Services for CUSTOMER. 
3. Furnish phase-in training, and phase-in/phase-out services for up to ninety (90) calendar days after 
termination of this Agreement.  
4. Negotiate in good faith a plan with a successor to determine the nature and extent of phase-
in/phase-out services required. The plan shall specify a date for transferring responsibilities and shall be subject 
to CUSTOMER’s approval. 
 
SECTION 27 – FORCE MAJEURE 
 
Neither Party will incur any liability to the other on account of any loss or damage resulting from any delay or 
failure to perform all or any part of this Agreement if such delay or failure is caused, in whole or in part, by 
events, occurrences, or causes beyond its reasonable control and without negligence of the Parties. Such events, 
occurrences, or causes will include, without limitation, acts of God, strikes, lockouts, riots, acts of war, acts of 
terrorism, floods, and earthquakes. 
 
SECTION 28 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CUSTOMER and VENDOR and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral. Unless set forth 
herein, neither Party shall be liable for any representations made whether orally or in writing.  
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by duly authorized representatives of both 
CUSTOMER and VENDOR. 
 
255 of 293

--- page 256 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 11 of 16 
Rev 5/24 
 
The documents constituting the Agreement between both Parties are intended to be complementary so that 
what is required by any one of them shall be as binding as if called for by all of them. The Exhibits shown below 
constitute a material part hereof, and are hereby incorporated by reference herein as part of this Agreement. 
1. Exhibit A - Statement of Work and Fee Schedule 
2. Exhibit B - Insurance Requirements 
 
In the event of a disagreement between the various documents relating to this Agreement, the order of 
precedence shall be as follows (in order from most controlling to least controlling): 
1. This Agreement 
2. Statement of Work & Fee Schedule 
 
SECTION 29 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of litigation, venue will 
be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
 
256 of 293

--- page 257 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 12 of 16 
Rev 5/24 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Catalis Public Works & Citizen Engagement, LLC have caused 
this Agreement to be executed as of the Effective Date by their duly authorized representatives, and hereto 
have accepted the terms, conditions, and provisions set forth above.  
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
VENDOR 
 
 
 
 
Peter K. Owen 
Director of Information Technology 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
Catalis Public Works & Citizen 
Engagement, LLC   
Mike LeBeau 
Regional Sales Manager 
 
 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A - Statement of Work and Fee Schedule 
Exhibit B - Insurance Requirements 
 
 
257 of 293

--- page 258 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 13 of 16 
Rev 5/24 
 
 
EXHIBIT A 
 
STATEMENT OF WORK AND FEE SCHEDULE  
 
 
 
 
 
258 of 293

--- page 259 ---
Catalis Order Form (v0325) 
 
1 
Catalis 
3025 Windward Plaza, Suite 200 
Alpharetta, GA 30005 
No.: 006Ph00000SLWo0IAH 
Order Form Date: 7/23/2025  
ORDER FORM 
 
CUSTOMER INFORMATION  
Customer: 
San Mateo, CA 
Phone: 
650-522-7008  
Primary Contact: 
Jenifer Forsythe 
 
Address: 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
System 
Administrator: 
Jenifer Forsythe 
jforsythe@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
Billing Contact: 
Jenifer Forsythe 
ACH: 
☐ 
Billing Email: 
jforsythe@cityofsanmateo.org 
PO Required: 
☐ 
PO No.: ___________ 
Billing Phone: 
650-522-7008  
Tax Exempt: 
☐ 
 
Catalis Representative: Mike LeBeau, mike.lebeau@catalisgov.com, 2032280034 
 
 TERM  
Subscription Start Date: 
September 1st, 2025 
The Subscription Start Date is the date the Software will be provisioned to the System Administrator. The Initial Term of the 
Subscription shall begin on the Subscription Start Date and will continue for three (3) years (“Initial Term”).  
 
BILLING SUMMARY 
1. Software Subscription Fees shall be billed up on the Subscription Start Date and annually in advance thereafter.  
2. One-time Professional Services Fees shall be billed each month for services provided in the preceding month.  
3. Invoices shall be due and payable within thirty (30) calendar days following invoice by Catalis. 
 
PRICING 
Pricing below is valid through August 31st, 2025. Pricing is subject to change after this date. 
 
1. Software Subscription Fees 
 
Year 1 
Year 2 
Year 3 
Request Management Enterprise- SaaS License  
Unlimited Users 
Annual Subscription 
Training - Catalis Academy subscription 
Support – full access to Catalis Support 
Citizen Branded app – iOS & Android – 
updates and changes 
Performance Transparency Dashboards – 
updates and changes 
Integration support and maintenance – ESRI 
ArcGIS, Cartegraph 
Maintenance, Upgrades & API access 
$38,500.00 
$38,500.00 
$38,500.00 
Total Subscription Fees 
$38,500 
$38,500 
$38,500 
 
259 of 293

--- page 260 ---
Catalis Order Form (v0325) 
 
2 
Catalis 
3025 Windward Plaza, Suite 200 
Alpharetta, GA 30005 
No.: 006Ph00000SLWo0IAH 
Order Form Date: 7/23/2025  
2. One-Time Professional Services Fees 
 
 
Request Management Enterprise Implementation 
Dedicated Catalis PM until product launch 
Training – Administrative training – Virtual 
Citizen Branded app design and launch 
Build, setup, configuration and support of product integrations – ESRI ArcGIS & Cartegraph 
Transparency Dashboard setup and configuration 
$25,000.00 
Onsite Kickoff and/or Training (optional) 
2 days minimum 
$2,500.00/day 
Total One-time Fees 
$25,000.00 
If Catalis anticipates any aspect of the One-Time Professional Services to exceed the above estimate(s) by ten percent (10%) 
or more, Catalis will advise Customer, and secure a written agreement to proceed with said overage. Customer agrees to 
pay Catalis for any overage hours at the same rate(s) quoted and according to the terms of this Work Order. Catalis will 
invoice Customer each month for services provided in the preceding month. 
 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
General Notes: 
1. The Parties agree to keep all aspects of this agreement confidential to the extent permitted by law. 
2. Order Form line items represent estimates based upon initial evaluation of project complexity and duration. The actual 
time to complete the scope of work may vary. The Pricing listed above is estimated based on the information available 
to Catalis at the time of the making of this Order Form. 
3. Following adoption of this Order Form, changes to the Statement of Work must be memorialized with a written 
Amendment or Work Order, without regard to whether the change affects costs, and must be approved in writing by 
Catalis and the Customer. If the changes impact cost, an estimate of the cost impact shall be included. Any cost for 
future Professional Services, customizations, modifications, or integrations shall be provided at the Catalis standard 
hourly services rate. The Statement of Work shall be subject to the terms of this Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
260 of 293

--- page 261 ---
Catalis Order Form (v0325) 
 
3 
Catalis 
3025 Windward Plaza, Suite 200 
Alpharetta, GA 30005 
No.: 006Ph00000SLWo0IAH 
Order Form Date: 7/23/2025  
ACCEPTANCE  
By signing below, signatories represent that they are validly authorized to enter into this Order Form and accept their 
terms and conditions. The Order Form is dated effective and shall be considered binding upon execution (“Effective 
Date”) by and between both parties. 
 
San Mateo, CA: 
 
By:  
_______________________________________ 
Name:  _______________________________________ 
Title:  
_______________________________________ 
Date:  
_______________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CATALIS PUBLIC WORKS & CITIZEN ENGAGEMENT, LLC: 
 
By:  
_______________________________________ 
Name:  _______________________________________ 
Title:  
_______________________________________ 
Date:  
_______________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
261 of 293

--- page 262 ---
Catalis Order Form (v0325) 
 
4 
Catalis 
3025 Windward Plaza, Suite 200 
Alpharetta, GA 30005 
No.: 006Ph00000SLWo0IAH 
Order Form Date: 7/23/2025  
 
 
City of San Mateo AGREEMENT WITH Catalis Public Works & Citizen Engagement, LLC 
FOR MASTER TECHNOLOGY-RELATED PROFESSIONAL SERVICES PLACEHOLDER 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SCHEDULE A: SOFTWARE DESCRIPTION AND SCOPE OF USE 
 
 
Your SaaS license of RME includes – Unlimited licenses/users, call center access, resident portal, resident branded app (iOS 
& Android) interactive reporting (public and internal), access to Catalis academy, API access (includes documentation & 
support), maintenance, hosting, support and product upgrades. A dedicated customer success manager will be provided for 
you following launch of the product. San Mateo will have access at all times to 2 different environments – production and 
development.  
Integrations – following the build and launch of the integrations discussed in Schedule B, Catalis will provide support and 
the necessary maintenance. 
 
 
262 of 293

--- page 263 ---
Catalis Order Form (v0325) 
 
5 
Catalis 
3025 Windward Plaza, Suite 200 
Alpharetta, GA 30005 
No.: 006Ph00000SLWo0IAH 
Order Form Date: 7/23/2025  
SCHEDULE B: PROFESSIONAL SERVICES - ONE-TIME SCOPE OF WORK 
 
 
 
Phase 1: Introduction  
After signing the contract, your sales contact will introduce you to your project managers on the Catalis team. You will 
schedule an initial kick off call to discuss the timeline of the project.  
Meet Your Project Management Team! – This is the first call you will have with your project managers from Catalis. The 
discussion will involve all project leads on your end. Your project managers from Catalis will go over the phases of this 
project and the requirements needed in order to get Request Management Enterprise up and running. Any outside 
integrations will be discussed during this time. While this is being discussed a timeline will be built out based upon your full 
launch date.   
Kick off Meeting –During this kick-off meeting, your project managers from Catalis will give a presentation to your 
departments and other stakeholders showing how they can greatly benefit from using Request Management Enterprise. 
Your project managers will answer any questions the departments may have during this time. Following the presentation, 
the Catalis team will meet with additional stakeholders to discuss their involvement.  
Administrator Training – Our PM will be in touch with you and your “admin” users to schedule a times for onsite training to 
take place. This first session, Administrator Training, is directed towards power users of Request Management Enterprise. 
These will be users who will be making additions, changes, or overlooking Request Management Enterprise. During this 
webinar you will get a much better understanding of how the requirements needed for implementation will drive the 
performance of Request Management Enterprise. You will be provided with an in-depth view of how Request Management 
Enterprise works. The PMs will give many examples and answer any questions you may have during this call. These sessions 
are followed by additional sessions as the project moves along.  
Phase 2: Implementation  
During your introductory call with your project managers from Catalis, they will provide you with a list of requirements 
needed for implementation. They will work with you and other departments to gather this data. A call will be setup 
between your IT and GIS departments to discuss additional data the Catalis team will need. The minimal data needed for 
implementation will be:  
Phase 1
Introduction 
Week 1
Phase 2
Implementation   
Week 1 - 6
Phase 3
Intergations & 
Configurations
Week 6-12
Phase 4 
Branded App 
Week  10-14  
Phase 5
Training, Soft Launch
Week 14-16
Phase 6
Full Launch
Week 18
263 of 293

--- page 264 ---
Catalis Order Form (v0325) 
 
6 
Catalis 
3025 Windward Plaza, Suite 200 
Alpharetta, GA 30005 
No.: 006Ph00000SLWo0IAH 
Order Form Date: 7/23/2025  
• 
Importing historical/previous data – Fargo can provide previous data in csv/excel format for Catalis to 
import into the new system. 
• 
Users List – A list of users who will be using Request Management Enterprise. This will be anyone 
receiving notifications or entering calls into Request Management Enterprise. Their email addresses will 
need to be provided. If you will be using SSO with ADFS or Azure AD please provide this list.  
• 
List of Departments – A full list of departments at your municipality. Request Management Enterprise can 
report on Service Request Types and the responsible department. 
• 
Service Request Types – Service requests are requests for help; service request types are the reasons that 
help is necessary. They also are key items for which an organization needs data to report on to enhance 
services and performance.  
• 
Routes – Routes are the departmental experts - individuals or groups - responsible for resolving service 
requests. 
• 
Escalation Routes – Additional routes that will be notified if the request hasn’t been taken care of during a 
certain time period. You will decide on this time frame and who will be notified. 
• 
GIS Layers – Your Project Managers from Catalis will work with your GIS departments on the integration 
of GIS layers via ESRI.   
Product Enhancements 
• 
Knowledge Base Articles - A knowledge base is a centralized repository for information, a database of 
related information about a particular subject. Similar to Frequently Asked Questions, this will be built out 
to related Service Request Types. 
• 
Prompts & Scripts – Information that is related to a request type that may provide you with information 
to give out to a submitter or with questions to help you collect information. 
• 
Notification Content - This is information about request resolution expectations, for example, that an 
organization can “push” to submitters. It is delivered in the initial receipt email when notifications are 
enabled. 
• 
Custom Fields - A field type that you can create to collect data that Request Management Enterprise 
doesn’t. 
• 
Reusable Comments - Information snippets that you may use over and over again. You can add your own 
or use a global comment that has been added for everyone’s use.  
• 
Schedule Reports – Reports can be custom built and delivered at your schedule. 
• 
“Places” Lookup - A place is a landmark, place, or building that is more known by name than address. 
Rather than searching for an address, citizens can search by Places when entering the location of a 
request. 
 
Phase 3: Configuration & Integrations  
If there are any integrations, including Cartegraph, Catalis Public Works and Citizen Engagement, LLC will work with you and 
your third-party vendor to build out this integration. A sandbox environment will be created to build and test this data 
within Request Management. This is so that the integration testing will not take up any capacity on your day-to-day 
264 of 293

--- page 265 ---
Catalis Order Form (v0325) 
 
7 
Catalis 
3025 Windward Plaza, Suite 200 
Alpharetta, GA 30005 
No.: 006Ph00000SLWo0IAH 
Order Form Date: 7/23/2025  
operations on a live Request Management platform. Once the testing is complete, and the integration is ready for 
production, it will have to be recreated on the main, live platform. 
During this phase, Catalis Public Works & Citizen Engagement, LLC will work with you on setting configurations within 
Request Management. These configurations will include: 
• 
Administrator Training 2 – This training will entail more of the back end configuration settings. 
• 
Setting up a Request Management Email Address – This will be to send out notifications to your submitters and 
citizens who have notifications enabled. 
• 
Build Email Templates – By default Request Management will provide canned email templates. You will have the 
option to build these out and brand them to best fit your municipality. 
• 
SSO setup – Connect to your Azure AD or ADFS environment. 
• 
Enable Auto-Call/SMS – Setting up Request Management with phone numbers for auto-call back and text 
messaging. 
• 
Develop a Call Script – With Auto-Call turned on you will develop text associated with your municipality. 
• 
Configure Calendar on Escalations – Setting up calendar to eliminate escalation count on weekends or holidays.  
 
Phase 4: Branded App  
Your branded app integrates with your installation of RME to allow your citizens to submit requests for service from their 
smart phone or tablet and show you the problem by sending a photo of the issue. This is key element, but you don’t have to 
stop there. There’s really no limit to what you can incorporate into your app. You will work with the Catalis team on 
deciding which additional app elements work best for your municipality. The Web Design team from Catalis will work 
closely with you building out the following: 
• 
App Name - Try to relate your title to your organization or your project with a name that promotes your town/city, 
if applicable, or some interaction between you and your citizens. 
• 
Splash Screen Image - The first screen image of your app that users see as it loads, opens and takes you to the 
home screen. 
• 
Images – Images that can be changed on demand that show off your municipality.  
• 
Icon - Essentially your app logo. 
• 
Buttons or App Elements – Aside from submitting a request, what else would you like the app to do for your 
citizens.  
Building out the branded app typically takes 4-6 weeks from start to publish. This can begin during the early phases of the 
project. Client must have their own developer account with Apple so we can publish the app on your behalf. 
 
Phase 5: Training & Soft Launch  
Training dates will be set up for you and your staff planning to use Request Management Enterprise.  his can include onsite 
training or online webinars from our Educational Department. You and your staff will have full access to Catalis Academy, 
265 of 293

--- page 266 ---
Catalis Order Form (v0325) 
 
8 
Catalis 
3025 Windward Plaza, Suite 200 
Alpharetta, GA 30005 
No.: 006Ph00000SLWo0IAH 
Order Form Date: 7/23/2025  
which offers several learning opportunities. The Academy offers online training courses consisting of videos and live online 
webinars. During this phase you and your team will 
• 
Set Date for Training (if purchased) – Either onsite or online. 
• 
Provide Memo to Your Users about Request Management Enterprise  
• 
Distribute Info about Prerequisite Training – Catalis Academy will guide your team through a process that's meant 
to help more easily grasp the new software and processes you're going to put into place. This is done before onsite 
training begins.  
• 
Onsite Training (optional add-on) - Onsite training is optimal for 12 to 15 users  
• 
per session, and the Educational Department will hold three two-hour sessions in a day, by role or point of entry 
into Request Management Enterprise. All sessions are hands-on and interactive, with games and exercises 
designed to enhance retention. If onsite training was not purchased, full access will be provided to the Catalis 
Academy 
• 
Soft Launch – You are now live! Directly after training your soft launch will begin.  
During the Soft Launch Phase your staff will be adding calls and requests into Request Management Enterprise. This is the 
time where your staff will become familiar with the features and benefits of Request Management Enterprise.  
 
Phase 6: Full Launch  
Congratulations! At this final stage you will begin the rollout and announcement of Request Management Enterprise to the 
public! Catalis’s marketing team will be in touch during this time to discuss and develop ways to market Request 
Management Enterprise and your branded mobile app to your community. This exciting phase will include:  
• 
Request Management Enterprise Webform – Introducing the Request Management Enterprise webform onto your 
municipal website. You will work with the Catalis team to decide on which elements you want to include or make a 
requirement on the webform.  The webform is responsive and will be styled to match your website.  
• 
Marketing – Discuss outboard marketing campaign. Some of these methods will include reaching out to local news 
outlets, connecting to your citizens through social media and more. 
After the Full Launch has been deployed you will be introduced to your customer success you’re your dedicated CS manager 
and others from the Catalis team will regularly be in touch to setup reviews and schedule additional training as needed. 
 
Post Launch – 6 Month Review 
Now that you are live, the Catalis Public Works & Citizen Engagement, LLC team will reach out to schedule a call to go over 
an in-depth review of your installation. During this call, the following will be discussed: 
• 
Request Management Review – An in-depth look at your installation of Request Management. Your Project 
Manager will see which features you are utilizing, and which features you could benefit from. 
• 
Questions – Any questions you have with Request Management. Please feel free to reach out prior to as well! 
• 
Product Improvements – This will be suggestions you may have for changes or additions to Request Management. 
We are always looking for ways to make the Request Management platform all-encompassing in terms of 
satisfying the needs of our clients. 
266 of 293

--- page 267 ---
Catalis Order Form (v0325) 
 
9 
Catalis 
3025 Windward Plaza, Suite 200 
Alpharetta, GA 30005 
No.: 006Ph00000SLWo0IAH 
Order Form Date: 7/23/2025  
Product Updates – New features that will be introduced with the next update to Request Management. 
267 of 293

--- page 268 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 14 of 16 
Rev 5/24 
 
EXHIBIT B 
Insurance Requirements for Vendors 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office Form CG 00 01 covering CGL on an 
“occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property damage, bodily injury and 
personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location (ISO CG 
25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
2. Automobile Liability: Insurance Services Office Form Number CA 0001 covering, Code 1 (any auto), or 
if Consultant has no owned autos, Code 8 (hired) and 9 (non- owned), with limit no less than $1,000,000 
per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease. 
(Not required if consultant provides written verification it has no employees) 
4. Cyber Liability Insurance, with limits not less than $2,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 
aggregate. Coverage shall be sufficiently broad to respond to the duties and obligations as is 
undertaken by Vendor in this agreement and shall include, but not be limited to, claims involving 
security breach, system failure, data recovery, business interruption, cyber extortion, social 
engineering, infringement of intellectual property, including but not limited to infringement of 
copyright, trademark, trade dress, invasion of privacy violations, information theft, damage to or 
destruction of electronic information, release of private information, and alteration of electronic 
information. The policy shall provide coverage for breach response costs, regulatory fines and penalties 
as well as credit monitoring expenses. 
Technology Professional Liability Errors and Omissions Insurance appropriate to the 
Consultant’s profession and work hereunder, with limits not less than $2,000,000 per 
occurrence. Coverage shall be sufficiently broad to respond to the duties and obligations as is 
undertaken by the Vendor in this agreement and shall include, but not be limited to, claims 
involving security breach, system failure, data recovery, business interruption, cyber extortion, 
social engineering, infringement of intellectual property, including but not limited to 
infringement of copyright, trademark, trade dress, invasion of privacy violations, information 
theft, damage to or destruction of electronic information, release of private information, and 
alteration of electronic information. The policy shall provide coverage for breach response 
costs, regulatory fines and penalties as well as credit monitoring expenses. 
a. The Policy shall include, or be endorsed to include, property damage liability 
coverage for damage to, alteration of, loss of, or destruction of electronic data 
and/or information “property” of the Agency in the care, custody, or control of the 
Vendor. If not covered under the Vendor’s liability policy, such “property” coverage 
268 of 293

--- page 269 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 15 of 16 
Rev 5/24 
 
of the Agency may be endorsed onto the Vendor’s Cyber Liability Policy as covered 
property as follows: 
If the Vendor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above, the Entity 
requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or the higher limits maintained by the contractor. Any 
available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall be 
available to the Entity. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional insureds on the CGL 
policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the Vendor 
including materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations. General liability 
coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the Consultant’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO 
Form CG 20 10 11 85 or both CG 20 10, CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions 
used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the Vendor’s insurance coverage shall be primary and non-contributory. 
Coverage for commercial liability shall be at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the Entity, its officers, 
officials, employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the Entity, its officers, 
officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of the Vendor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. This 
requirement shall also apply to any Excess policies. 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall state that coverage shall not be canceled, except with notice to the 
Entity. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Vendor hereby grants to Entity a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Vendor may acquire 
against the Entity by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance. Vendor agrees to obtain any 
endorsement that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of 
whether or not the Entity has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer. 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.    
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current 
A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A-:VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the Entity. 
269 of 293

--- page 270 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 16 of 16 
Rev 5/24 
 
Verification of Coverage 
Vendor shall furnish the Entity with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of the applicable 
policy language effecting coverage required by this clause and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsements Pages 
of the CGL and any Excess policies listing all policy endorsements. All certificates and endorsements and copies 
of the Declarations & Endorsements pages are to be received and approved by the Entity before work commences. 
However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Vendor’s 
obligation to provide them. The Entity reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all required 
insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. Entity reserves the right 
to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of the risk, prior experience, insurer, coverage, 
or other special circumstances. 
Subcontractors 
Vendor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all the requirements stated 
herein, and Vendor shall ensure that Entity is an additional insured on insurance required from subcontractors. 
Special Risks or Circumstances 
Entity reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of the risk, prior 
experience, insurer, coverage, or other special circumstances. 
270 of 293

--- page 271 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  18
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1711
File ID: 25-10193
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Prasanna W. Rasiah, City Attorney
PREPARED BY:
City Attorney's Office
MEETING DATE:
August 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Housing Set Aside Fund — Appropriation
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution approving a supplemental budget appropriation of $250,000 of unassigned fund balance from the 
General Fund to increase transfers out from the General Fund to the Housing Set Aside Fund (Fund 130) to increase the 
budget for affordable housing developments. 
BACKGROUND:
The adopted budget for Fiscal Year (FY) 2025-26 includes a $1,100,000 transfer from the General Fund to the Housing Set 
Aside Fund, consistent with Housing Element Policy 1.2. This Policy calls for setting aside 20 percent of general fund 
property tax revenues from former RDA areas (aka “Boomerang Funds”) as well as the Affordable Housing Commercial 
Linkage Fee Funds. The Housing Set Aide Fund is used to create and preserve affordable housing, and the current balance 
is $7,487,084. As part of a settlement agreement with the Housing Action Coalition, which sued the City over adoption of 
the Housing Element, the City tentatively agreed to transfer an additional $250,000 to the Housing Set Aside Fund. The 
proposed appropriation action would fulfill that commitment. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
An appropriation of $250,000 of unassigned fund balance from the General Fund (Fund 100) to increase transfers out to 
the Housing Set Aside Fund (Fund 130) will result in a new balance in Fund 130 of $7,737,084 for Fiscal Year 2025-26. 
There is sufficient unassigned fund balance in the General Fund for this appropriation.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Resolution is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result 
in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Prasanna W. Rasiah, City Attorney
prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7020
271 of 293

--- page 272 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
AUTHORIZE A SUPPLEMENTAL BUDGET APPROPRIATION OF $250,000 OF UNASSIGNED FUND BALANCE FROM 
THE GENERAL FUND TO INCREASE TRANSFERS OUT TO THE HOUSING SET-ASIDE FUND 
WHEREAS, the Housing Set-Aside Fund (Fund 130) is used to create and preserve affordable housing, 
and the Fiscal Year 2025-26 adopted budget includes a transfer of $1,100,000 from the General Fund (Fund 100) 
to the Housing Set-Aside Fund consistent with Housing Element Policy 1.2; and
WHEREAS, an additional transfer from the General Fund to the Housing Set-Aside Fund of $250,000 is 
proposed in order to fulfill a provision of a settlement agreement with the Housing Action Coalition, which had 
sued the City regarding its adopted Housing Element.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This resolution is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative 
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15378(b)(5).).
2.
The Council authorizes the supplemental budget appropriation of $250,000 from unassigned 
fund balance from the General Fund to increase transfers out to the Housing Set-Aside Fund (#130) to increase 
the budget for affordable housing creation and preservation.
272 of 293

--- page 273 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  19
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-4662
File ID: 25-10243
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
August 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Train Quiet Zone Project Status — Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a staff presentation on the status of the Train Quiet Zone implementation efforts and provide feedback.
BACKGROUND:
Since 2017, reducing train horn noise impact on residents at City at-grade crossings has been a priority for City Council. 
Staff presented potential approaches to establishing a “Quiet Zone” in August 2018, January 2020, June 2023, and most 
recently, in July 2024. The plan focuses on implementing Federal Railroad Administration – approved safety measures at 
specific crossings at E. Bellevue Avenue and Villa Terrace.
From the July 2024 meeting, staff received direction on the following items:
1.
Conduct additional outreach with residents directly impacted by the proposed improvements, particularly those 
living along E. Bellevue Avenue – Completed
2.
Coordinate with Public Safety (Fire and Police) to assess access points and emergency response times – Completed
3.
Evaluate the feasibility of a temporary closure at E. Bellevue Avenue – Completed
FRA Requirements
The Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) mandates train horn usage along the railway and has established requirements 
that allow for cities to implement a “Quiet Zone” to restrict the use of train horns along train corridors. In order to 
establish a Quiet Zone, a city must implement FRA-approved safety measures at a number of at-grade crossings within the 
proposed segment. FRA-approved safety measures include upgraded four-quadrant gates (as opposed to the standard 
two-quadrant gates currently used in the City), concrete medians, street closures, and one-way street conversions. 
In addition to implementation of FRA-approved safety measures, cities must certify that the FRA-approved safety 
measures sufficiently mitigate the increased risk of collision resulting from restricting train horns, based on a collision risk 
assessment. To establish a Quiet Zone, the “Risk Index” for the proposed segment of rail corridor must be lower as a 
percentage score than 100 percent, as determined through FRA risk index calculation tools. Eligibility of an established 
Quiet Zone is reassessed periodically through the FRA’s risk assessment process, as the proposed segment’s risk index may 
change based on changes to traffic volumes or in case of any collisions at the at-grade crossings. 
It is important to note that should a Quiet Zone be established, train horn noise will not be completely eliminated as 
Caltrain is still permitted to sound horns at station platforms for operational and safety purposes as required by the FRA. 
Caltrain may also sound horns in emergency situations to alert animals, vehicle operators, pedestrians, trespassers, or 
crews on other trains and near construction sites.
273 of 293

--- page 274 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Proposed Plan
The proposed Quiet Zone would extend from Villa Terrace to Hayward Park. Since the rail crossings south of Hayward Park 
Station are already grade-separated and do not require horn sounding, implementation of the Quiet Zone would, in effect, 
cover the entire city.
To achieve this, staff has focused on upgrading the City’s at-grade crossings. New four-quadrant gates at 4th and 5th 
Avenues have been installed and are currently awaiting final certification from the California Public Utilities Commission 
(CPUC). Of the remaining at-grade crossings where rail improvements are most feasible, staff is currently evaluating 
additional safety enhancements at the Villa Terrace and E. Bellevue Avenue crossings, including consideration of four-
quadrant gates, complete closures of both crossings, or closure of Villa Terrace and extended medians on E. Bellevue 
Avenue.
In July 2024, during the presentation to City Council, staff recommended maintaining the Risk Index below 90 percent to 
provide a buffer against potential future modifications to FRA guidelines, fluctuations in traffic and accident data used in 
risk calculations, and possible increases in Caltrain train volumes. Between 2024 and 2025, the calculated Risk Index 
increased (meaning the Risk Indices got closer to 100 percent and therefore provide less of a buffer for future 
modifications in FRA’s standards) across all proposed scenarios for implementing the Train Quiet Zone improvements, as 
shown in Table 1 below.
Table 1: FRA Risk Index for proposed improvement scenarios – 2024 vs. 2025
Option
Scenarios
Risk Index 2024
Risk Index 2025
1
Quad gates at Villa Terrace and E. Bellevue Avenue
89%
98%
2
Closure at Villa Terrace and E. Bellevue Avenue
79%
89%
3
Closure at Villa Terrace and medians at E. Bellevue Avenue
84%
95%
Staff attributes the increase in the Risk Index to a rise in train traffic along the corridor. Since both Option 1 and Option 3 
exceed staff’s recommended risk threshold of 90 percent, neither option is being recommended for Train Quiet Zone 
implementation, leaving full closure of both Villa Terrace and E. Bellevue Avenue as the only option that reduces the Risk 
Index below 90 percent.
Updated Traffic Impact Study
In 2023, a Traffic Impact Study was completed to analyze the potential effects on the transportation network for Option 2 
(full closures at both Villa Terrace and East Bellevue Avenue) and Option 3 (closure at Villa Terrace and installation of a 
median at East Bellevue Avenue).
In 2025, City staff and their traffic consultant, Kittelson & Associates, conducted a supplemental study, which confirmed 
the same findings as the 2023 analysis. Based on community feedback, the 2025 study also included five additional 
intersections along North Claremont Street. Traffic counts were collected from Tuesday, May 13, through Thursday, May 
15, while schools were in session.
The results of both the 2023 and 2025 studies indicate that the Level of Service (LOS) at the analyzed intersections remains 
within the City’s adopted thresholds, as outlined in the 2020 Transportation Analysis Guidelines and General Plan.
The supplemental study further determined that North Claremont Street is not eligible for traffic calming measures, as the 
85th percentile speed was not more than six miles per hour over the posted speed limit. However, the study also 
evaluated potential improvements at the intersections of North Claremont Street with State Street and East Bellevue 
Avenue. It recommends implementing an all-way stop and marked crosswalks at the intersection with State Street and 
marked crosswalks at the intersection with East Bellevue Avenue.
274 of 293

--- page 275 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Public Outreach and Education
To engage the community further following the July 2024 City Council meeting, staff conducted a second round of 
extensive outreach to gather feedback and further inform residents about the proposed Project. These recent efforts built 
upon and expanded the outreach conducted in 2024, with more focus on understanding how that feedback varied among 
residents on specific side streets, namely on Villa Terrace and East Bellevue Avenue, the streets most directly impacted by 
the proposed changes.
Staff’s comprehensive outreach strategy included a variety of methods to reach a broad spectrum of residents and 
businesses:
•
Bilingual outreach materials: Approximately 5,000 mailed notices (an increase from 3,000 in 2024), e-news 
updates, and physical posters were distributed at project sites, ensuring accessibility to the City’s diverse language 
communities.
•
Coordination with local stakeholders: Staff partnered with neighborhood schools and property management 
companies to disseminate information and encourage participation from residents directly affected by the 
proposed improvements.
•
City social media platforms: Project updates were shared across Twitter (X), Instagram, Facebook, Nextdoor, and 
the City’s website to amplify outreach and increase awareness.
•
Direct engagement: Staff conducted door-to-door outreach at over 250 homes to engage with residents 
personally, answer questions, and gather input on their concerns and preferences.
•
Online community survey: The community survey was updated to include a location-based question, allowing staff 
to better identify and understand feedback from residents living directly along Villa Terrace and East Bellevue 
Avenue.
To allow more time for community feedback, staff extended the survey deadline to August 12, 2025. This agenda report 
presents the results of the survey as of August 5th, 2025, which was the original end date of the survey. An updated 
summary of the survey results will be presented to the City Council as part of the August 18th presentation.
As of August 5, 2025, the community survey received responses from 143 residents. The survey asked participants to 
provide input on three proposed options:
•
Option A: Closure at Villa Terrace and installation of a median at East Bellevue Avenue
•
Option B: Full closures at both Villa Terrace and East Bellevue Avenue
•
Option C: None of the above (No Train Quiet Zone established)
Consistent with the results of the 2024 survey, the most recent feedback showed strong support for Option B, which 
proposes full closures at both locations. Specifically, 63 percent of respondents from Villa Terrace supported double 
closures, while 67 percent on E. Bellevue Avenue supported the double closure option as shown below in Table 2.
Table 2: Survey Summary for Support of Proposed Improvement Options
Location of Survey 
Participant
Option A
Option B
None of the Above
Total
E. Bellevue Avenue 
4
17%
16
67%
4
17%
24
Villa Terrace 
1
6%
10
63%
5
31%
16
Other 
26
25%
47
46%
30
29%
103
Total
31
22%
73
51%
39
27%
143
Staff conducted a public outreach meeting on August 4, 2025, at the King Center to gather additional feedback from 
community members on the proposed implementation options. The meeting included Spanish interpretation services and 
offered a remote attendance option to ensure broader accessibility. A total of 27 community members attended in person, 
and 15 participated remotely.
275 of 293

--- page 276 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
In contrast to the survey results, attendees at the meeting expressed strong opposition to both presented options and 
were vocal in their support for the implementation of quad-gates. There was more opposition to the closure at E. Bellevue 
Avenue than Villa Terrace, and there was more opposition to the medians than the closure at E. Bellevue Avenue. The 
majority of attendees raised concerns about potential traffic congestion on alternate routes, restricted vehicle 
movements, and the loss of parking associated with the proposed medians. Additional concerns included impacts to 
driveway access, visibility of the medians, and overall traffic circulation and management. They expressed interest in 
piloting a closure on E. Bellevue Avenue.
Budget Updates
In July 2024, construction cost estimates presented to Council totaled approximately $800,000, with $400,000 for the 
closure at Villa Terrace and $400,000 for the closure at E. Bellevue Avenue. At the time, these figures reflected the known 
construction cost estimates for the City’s scope of work at both railroad crossings. However, for closure-related 
improvements, the estimates did not include: (1) work required by Caltrain for activities within their right-of-way, and (2) 
Caltrain’s own upgrades to signals and warning devices. These additional costs were assumed to be minimal and expected 
to be either absorbed within the existing project budget or covered through a minor budget adjustment request in the 
upcoming fiscal year.
Caltrain’s most recent cost estimates for the closure alternatives are significantly higher than previously anticipated. At 
Villa Terrace, the estimate increased from $400,000 to approximately $1,730,000. This includes an additional $730,000 for 
Caltrain’s signal modifications and required safety improvements, as well as $600,000 for work the City must complete 
within Caltrain’s right-of-way (ROW). In addition to general demolition, the City’s scope within Caltrain’s ROW primarily 
consists of concrete and asphalt removal, along with the removal of non-essential signage and pavement markings.
While estimates for E. Bellevue Avenue are not yet finalized, they are expected to be similar to that of Villa Terrace, with a 
slight increase to account for additional coordination with Union Pacific Railroad. Staff can develop an estimate of 
improvements at E. Bellevue Avenue with Caltrain following receiving City Council direction on whether to proceed with a 
closure. These estimates are on the conservative side and staff has been working closely with Caltrain to refine and 
validate the costs. Given that the project is still in the early design phase, maintaining a more conservative contingency is 
prudent to help mitigate the risk of future budget impacts.
At present, the City’s existing budget of $1,250,000 is insufficient to fund all of the improvements required to qualify for a 
Quiet Zone. Table 3 indicates updated estimates for the Proposed Quiet Zone Implementation and includes full cost for 
implementation with staff, design and construction management cost for complete closures at both Villa Terrace and E. 
Bellevue Avenue. 
Table 3. Updated Estimates for Proposed Quiet Zone Implementation
Task
Estimated Cost 
Staff Cost
 $                     75,000
Design Cost
 $                   250,000
Construction 
 $               3,580,000
Constr. Management
 $                   150,000 
Total
 $               4,055,000 
Staff anticipates the need for an estimated General Fund budget increase of $2,805,000 (Closure at Villa Terrace and E. 
Bellevue Avenue) based on the existing available budget of $1,250,000.
Funding and Coordination Efforts
Given the unexpected funding gap, staff have been working diligently to identify mitigation measures to support the 
implementation of the Train Quiet Zone within the previously anticipated timeframe of calendar year 2026. These efforts 
include seeking external funding sources and exploring alternative delivery strategies for the proposed improvements.
276 of 293

--- page 277 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC), in coordination with the California Department of Transportation 
(Caltrans), has offered Section 130 funding for the proposed closure at Villa Terrace. Section 130 is a federally funded 
program aimed at reducing fatalities at railway crossings. This funding would cover all related construction costs for both 
the City and Caltrain. However, to receive the funds, both agencies must follow a federally mandated process through 
Caltrans, including specific phase authorizations and procurement procedures.
Caltrain has indicated that their implementation schedule could be upwards of 18-30 months after receiving Section 130 
authorization. Because both the City and Caltrain must fulfill all program requirements before construction funds are 
released, this could delay the Train Quiet Zone Program implementation until as late as mid-2028. Staff is working with 
CPUC and Caltrain to evaluate opportunities to shorten this timeline and achieve implementation by late 2027. 
In addition, staff are evaluating opportunities to phase the improvements to establish a Quiet Zone sooner. Namely, this 
would involve establishing a Quiet Zone concurrent with closure of the street, while remaining construction work within 
Caltrain right-of-way could occur post-implementation of the Quiet Zone (it is important to note that during this 
construction phase, horns would be sounded as trains approached and passed through the construction zone). On August 
4, 2025, staff met with key stakeholders to assess the feasibility of a phased implementation and received general 
concurrence for the closure concept. Participating stakeholders included the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), 
California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC), California Department of Transportation (Caltrans), Caltrain Joint Powers 
Board (JPB), and Union Pacific Railroad (UPRR). Given the consensus among stakeholders, staff believes there is a clear 
path forward for implementing the closure improvements and achieving Train Quiet Zone designation. 
Section 130 funding can be utilized to cover construction-related costs at Villa Terrace; however, a funding source has yet 
to be secured for the full closure improvements within Caltrain’s right-of-way at East Bellevue Avenue. Staff will actively 
pursue additional Section 130 funding for a potential closure at E. Bellevue Avenue. However, funding projections for FY 
2025-26 will not be available until November 2025. Staff remain in regular communication with CPUC and will update the 
City Council as additional information becomes available. In addition to pursuing Section 130 funding, as part of the San 
Mateo County Transportation Authority’s (SMCTA) ongoing Grade Separation Program, the SMCTA is reaching out to 
jurisdictions along the Caltrain corridor to gauge interest in closing existing at-grade crossings. Staff has initiated contact 
with SMCTA representatives to explore whether E. Bellevue Avenue might qualify for funding support under this program. 
However, if external funding is not secured, a local funding match of approximately $1,000,000 may be required to achieve 
a Quiet Zone.
COUNCIL FEEDBACK:
•
Does Council support moving forward with closure of both Villa Terrace and E. Bellevue Avenue?
•
Does Council support securing Section 130 funding for the Villa Terrace closure from CPUC and Caltrans and 
pursuing additional Section 130 funding for the East Bellevue Avenue closure?
•
Does Council support utilizing local funding (General Fund or other appropriate sources) to support improvements 
if outside funding opportunities are not available?
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact due to the presentation of this informational item. These planning efforts and budget for 
potential future implementation of FRA-approved safety measures at Villa Terrace and E. Bellevue Avenue are funded 
through the Train Quiet Zone Project (462205).
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Council action is statutorily exempt from the preparation of environmental impact documents, because it involves the 
planning for possible futures actions which have not been approved, adopted, or funded. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15262.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
277 of 293

--- page 278 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Public Comment
Att 2 – Traffic Exhibits
STAFF CONTACT
Jimmy Vo, Engineering Manager
jvo@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7319
278 of 293

--- page 279 ---
Dear “Quiet Zone” Decision Makers and Councilmembers, 
 
 
We are writing to make sure that all decision makers are very clear on why we, the 
residents of this affected North Central neighborhood, stand together as stakeholders 
against the closure of Villa Terrace and East Bellevue Ave and feel that traffic flow in 
our high density neighborhood should be of the utmost priority.  The residents of North 
Claremont, State Street and Villa Terrace, east of the railroad tracks will be majorly  
impacted by the closure of the railroad crossing. 
  
With that being said, these are the reasons why neither of those streets should be 
closed.   
 
● Closing E. Bellevue and Villa Terrace will create cul-de-sac style streets and 
push traffic onto North Claremont and Woodside Way as the only outlets. In turn 
this will create an even bigger traffic mess as two of North Claremont's 
intersections are offset.  
 
● The traffic study did not include any of the immediate streets east of the closures. 
 
● North Claremont was not included in the study and it needs to be noted that the 
intersection of North Claremont and Peninsula is offset or setback causing 
viability interference and making  turning West/NorthWest onto Peninsula an 
exceptional challenge and many residents go to Villa Terrace to turn Northwest 
onto North San Mateo Drive.  
 
● The fact that the traffic study did not include the fact that two of North 
Claremont’s intersections are offset which causes turning left to go West and 
Northwest demonstrated that the study is not valid.  
 
● There is also a bus stop at North Claremont and Peninsula also blocking traffic at 
times, again people use Villa Terrace as an alternative.  
 
279 of 293

--- page 280 ---
● It should be noted that because of the changes to North San Mateo Drive 
taking away a lane of head on traffic, cars have difficulty getting through the 
intersection in one signal light sequence and many times now need to wait 
through many sequences because not as many cars can empty through the 
intersection as before. More cars would be using North San Mateo Dr 
together with Poplar and Peninsula as all cars will be pushed to use those 
arteries in both directions.  
 
● We, the residents and  the stakeholders, use the crossing at Villa Terrace to 
ride our bikes and walk to avoid the high volume traffic on Peninsula Ave and 
East Poplar as well as using it for quick access to the west side of the tracks 
and going north and Northwest.  
  
● The horn will still need to be blown at Peninsula Ave, so the quiet zone impact 
will be minimal and only gain a small area.  The horn will continue to be blown 
from Burlingame Ave all the way to Peninsula Ave again making it only a 
small gain of a quiet zone.   
 
● Closing these streets, cuts off students from their neighborhood schools and 
discourages walking to school, creating more traffic on Peninsula Ave and East 
Poplar. Students would be forced to walk and ride their bikes on busy streets 
instead of quiet, non congested streets making them the targets of accidents and 
crime.  
 
● The train and the horn were there before any of the current residents living in 
the area, so that all residents were fully aware of the train and any noise 
when they chose to move to the area.   
  
● No decisions should be made unless the decision makers personally drive 
around and become familiar with the streets affected by these closures.   
280 of 293

--- page 281 ---
● Our neighborhood has one of the most densely populated in San Mateo and it 
continues to tear down houses and build condos, making it even more dense 
and if the city is focusing on train noise over traffic flow there is a disconnect 
in the city planning.  
 
● Even residents on the west side of San Mateo will be affected by this as Villa 
Terrace and East Bellevue are alternatives to travel east instead of turning left 
onto El Camino or driving on Peninsula Ave and East Poplar which are major 
congested streets.    
 
●  Our increasingly dense neighborhood is plagued with illegal parking and 
oversized vehicles close to corners blocking oncoming traffic views on a regular 
basis. All of this results in prolonged travel times and dangerous driving 
situations and that is why residents seek corners with good visibility like that 
corner of North San Mateo Drive and Villa Terrace and East Bellevue to go North 
or West which makes for safer driving and less accidents.  
 
● Our streets are very densely parked and increased traffic will cause more 
accidents as residents already have limited visibility when pulling out of 
driveways.  
 
● We do not want more stop signs or traffic lights, we want flow of traffic.   
  
● Traffic flow should be the priority of decision making in San Mateo.We want 
traffic flow, pedestrian walkways on non congested streets and not a “Quiet 
Zone”.  
  
We invite you to drive through the streets and see for yourself.   
  
 
With Regards, 
 
 
 
281 of 293

--- page 282 ---
From: Sharon Prager i >

Sent: Tuesday, August 12, 2025 9:28 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: TRAIN QUIET ZONE PROGRAM

From: Sharon Prager

To: citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.crg <citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.crg>
Sent: Tuesday, August 12, 2025 at 09:13:02 AM PDT
Subject: TRAIN QUIET ZONE PROGRAM

Dear Council Members,

Regarding the Train Quiet Zone Program recommendations by the City, I support Option "B"
to permanently close Villa Terrace & E. Bellevue Ave.

Thank you.

Sharon Prager
San Mateo resident

282 of 293


--- page 283 ---
Traffic Impact Study - Findings
• Vehicle, Pedestrian & Bicyclist Travel Time
• Based on sample routes in the double closure option:
• Average increase of approximately 1-2 minutes of vehicle travel time
• Average increase of approximately 3 minutes of walking time
• Average increase of approximately 2 minutes of biking time
26
Recap of Council Direction - Traffic
Start: Highland Avenue
End: Woodlake Shopping 
Center/Safeway
Start: San Mateo Drive
End: San Mateo High School
Start: San Mateo High School
End: San Mateo Park Elementary School
283 of 293

--- page 284 ---
Traffic Calming Evaluation – Claremont St
• Recommendations based on updated 2025 counts and in 
response to community feedback
• The evaluation recommends:
• All way stop and marked crosswalks at Claremont St. and State St.
• Enhancing existing all way stop with stop bars to marked 
crosswalks at Claremont St and Bellevue Ave.
• Traffic calming measures, such as speed humps and speed 
cushions, are not warranted based on City Standard 
criteria, where speeds analyzed on the streets did not 
meet speed thresholds. 
27
Recap of Council Direction - Traffic
284 of 293

--- page 285 ---
City of San Mateo 
City Council Meeting 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POST PACKET 
 
 PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
285 of 293

--- page 286 ---
1
From:
Bill Piedemonte <
>
Sent:
Friday, August 15, 2025 11:57 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Train noise
Please, please, please do everything in your power to stop the incessant train horns.  
We live at Gramercy on the Park and have to pause the tv when the trains go by.  
Anything you can do will be appreciated  
William Piedemonte 
286 of 293

--- page 287 ---
1
From:
John Weinrich <
>
Sent:
Friday, August 15, 2025 12:44 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
San Mateo Train Quiet Zone Project
Hi San Mateo City Council, 
 
I want to email to express my strong support for the Train Quiet Zone! I hope we can reach an agreement 
with the federal government, and if we really need to close/modify some crossings, then that's what we'll 
have to do - I think it's worth it. 
 
Thank you, 
John Wenrich 
San Mateo Resident 
287 of 293

--- page 288 ---
1
From:
Chris Brousseau <
>
Sent:
Monday, August 18, 2025 10:33 AM
To:
Lisa Diaz Nash
Cc:
City Council (San Mateo); Cronin Marylou
Subject:
Support for Caltrain Quiet Zone - Request for Pedestrian-Only Crossing Alternative
Dear Ms. Nash and Members of the San Mateo City Council, 
 
I am wriƟng to express my strong support for establishing a Caltrain Quiet Zone in San Mateo. The increased frequency 
of electric train service has made this issue more pressing than ever for residents living near the rail corridor. 
 
While I appreciate the City's eﬀorts to advance this important iniƟaƟve, I have serious concerns about the current 
proposals for Villa Terrace and East Bellevue Avenue crossings. The plan to close Villa Terrace enƟrely and install medians 
at East Bellevue Avenue would signiﬁcantly impact residents living immediately adjacent to these crossings, parƟcularly 
regarding driveway access and community connecƟvity. 
 
I urge the City to explore an alternaƟve soluƟon that has not been adequately considered: converƟng both Villa Terrace 
and East Bellevue Avenue to pedestrian and bicycle-only crossings while eliminaƟng train horn requirements at these 
locaƟons. 
 
**Key Regulatory ClariﬁcaƟon Needed:** 
 
According to 49 CFR 222.27 (see link below),the federal Train Horn Rule explicitly states: "This rule does not require the 
rouƟne sounding of locomoƟve horns at pedestrian grade crossings." The regulaƟon only requires horn sounding at 
pedestrian crossings where state law mandates it. California has no state law requiring rouƟne train horns at pedestrian 
crossings. 
 
The federal regulaƟons clearly disƟnguish between "public highway-rail grade crossings" (where vehicles cross) and 
"pedestrian grade crossings" (where only pedestrians and bicycles cross). Pedestrian crossings within quiet zones require 
only: 
- DiagnosƟc team evaluaƟon 
- Appropriate safety treatments (gates, bells, warning signs) 
- Signs advising pedestrians that train horns are not sounded 
 
This pedestrian-only approach would: 
1. Maintain criƟcal community connecƟvity for walking and biking 2. Eliminate the need for concrete medians that would 
prevent residents from using their own driveways 3. Achieve the quiet zone objecƟves without the severe access 
restricƟons of full closures 4. Comply fully with federal safety requirements 
 
**Formal Request:** 
 
I respecƞully request that: 
 
1. Each City Council member review the following criƟcal resources: 
- The Transbay CoaliƟon arƟcle discussing San Mateo's quiet zone eﬀorts and the regulatory framework for pedestrian 
crossings: hƩps://www.transbaycoaliƟon.org/san-mateo-residents-pursue-quiet-zones-while-projects-advance-in-palo-
alto-and-menlo-park/ 
288 of 293

--- page 289 ---
2
- The federal regulaƟon 49 CFR 222.27 clarifying treatment of pedestrian crossings: hƩps://www.ecfr.gov/current/Ɵtle-
49/subƟtle-B/chapter-II/part-222/subpart-B/secƟon-222.27 
 
2. City Staﬀ provide a wriƩen response explaining either: 
- How the federal regulaƟons would enable pedestrian-only crossings at Villa Terrace and East Bellevue Avenue without 
train horn requirements, OR 
- The speciﬁc regulatory basis that would require Caltrain to conƟnue using horns at pedestrian-only crossings, despite 
clear federal regulaƟons staƟng otherwise 
 
The arƟcle notes that San Mateo residents have already pointed out that "federal regulaƟons for train horns at public 
highway-rail grade crossings do not apply to pedestrian crossings" and that "no state law in California requires rouƟne 
train horns at pedestrian crossings either." I believe that other staƟons like Hayward Park already demonstrate that 
pedestrian crossings can operate safely with gates, bells, and warning systems without rouƟne horn use.  If it turns out 
that Caltrain is currently  sounding horns at Hayward Park - then I ask that City Council take acƟon to stop this Caltrain 
pracƟce where not required by law. 
 
Before proceeding with permanent closures that will signiﬁcantly impact the neighborhood's connecƟvity and residents' 
property access, the City must thoroughly invesƟgate this pedestrian-only alternaƟve that appears to be fully supported 
by federal regulaƟons. 
 
Thank you for your aƩenƟon to this criƟcal quality-of-life issue. I look forward to the City's wriƩen response addressing 
the regulatory framework for pedestrian-only crossings. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Chris 
 
 
Christopher Brousseau 
 
 
 
CC: citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
289 of 293

--- page 290 ---
1
From:
Francie <
>
Sent:
Friday, August 15, 2025 8:48 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Establish railroad Quiet Zone!
Dear City Council Members, 
 
 
My husband and I are residents of Central San Mateo and unfortunately hear the train noise every day and night. 
We are in favor of establishing a railroad Quiet Zone in San Mateo, which involves closing both street crossings 
at Villa Terrace and East Belleview Avenue.  
 
 
Train noise and its negative impacts have been a topic for many years in San Mateo and it is time to take some 
concrete steps towards dealing with this issue. As a start, please move forward in establishing a Quiet Zone which 
would enhance the lives of many San Mateo residents. 
 
 
Thank you for moving forward with this issue.  
 
 
Tom & Francie Souza 
 
 
Sent from my iPhone 
290 of 293

--- page 291 ---
1
From:
Sigalle R Michael <
>
Sent:
Monday, August 18, 2025 11:50 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Clerk; Amir Michael
Subject:
Train Quiet Zone Project Comment
Hello, 
My name is Sigalle Michael, I am a commissioner on the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, 
but am writing to you as a San Mateo resident. I would like to strongly urge you not to close pedestrian 
and bicycle accessibility on E. Bellevue for the train quiet zone project. E. Bellevue is one of few 
pathways to San Mateo High School from the westside, and closing it will discourage students from 
walking/biking to school. This proposal seems to conflict with the City's effort to improve Safe Routes to 
School and overall pedestrian and bicycle access to SMHS.  
Thank you for your consideration, 
~Sigalle Michael 
291 of 293

--- page 292 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  20
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 25-10258
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
August 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
City Council Appointments to External Agencies and Liaison Roles — Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Review and provide direction to amend the Council Appointments list for 2025 to add a liaison to the San Mateo Police 
Activities League.
BACKGROUND:
On January 13, 2025 the City Council approved the 2025 appointments to external agencies and established Council liaison 
roles. At the July 28, 2025 City Council Regular Meeting, during Reports and Announcements, City Council directed staff to 
add an additional external liaison assignment to the list to include the San Mateo Police Activities League. During this 
discussion, the City Council can provide direction to indicate which member of the Council will serve in this capacity 
through the remainder of the calendar year. Thereafter, the San Mateo Police Activities League assignment will be 
included within future annual appointments to liaison roles. 
Staff is also reviewing the inclusion of additional liaison roles, such as the Library Foundation and Park and Recreation 
Foundation for future inclusion. This will be brought forward during the 2026 review process.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact associated with this administrative action. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This appointments list approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity 
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – 2025 Appointments List
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
292 of 293

--- page 293 ---
San Mateo Council Appointments - 2025
Body
Alt
Appt'd By
Type of Appointment
2024
2025
External Agencies Board Member Appointments
1
Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG) - General Assembly
Y
Council
External Agency
Hedges
 Lee (alt)
Loraine
Nash (alt)
2
City/County Association of Governments  (C/CAG) & Alternate
Y
Council
External Agency 
Hedges 
Nash (alt)
Nash 
Loraine (alt)
3
Emergency Services Council 
Y
Council
External Agency 
Newsom
Lee (alt)
Newsom
Cwirko-Godycki (alt)
4
Grand Boulevard Task Force 
Y
Council
External Standing Comm
Newsom
Hedges (alt)
Fernandez
Loraine (alt)
6
Housing Our People Effectively (HOPE) Interagency Council – Leadership 
Committee
Y
Council
External Agency
Loraine
Lee (alt)
Cwirko-Godycki
Fernandez (alt)
7
Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) 
Y
Council
External Agency
Loraine 
Lee (alt)
Loraine
Nash (alt)
8
Peninsula Traffic Congestion Relief Alliance - Commute.org (Alternate)
Y
Council 
External Agency
Newsom
Hedges (alt)
Newsom
Fernandez (alt)
9
SF Airport Community Roundtable 
Y
Council
External Agency
Newsom
Nash (alt)
Cwirko-Godycki
Newsom (alt)
10 San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department (JPA)
Y
Council
External Agency
Newsom
Lee (alt)
Newsom
Fernandez (alt)
11 San Mateo County Council of Cities  (Mayor & Alternate)
Y
Council
External Agency
Nash / 
Newsom
Newsom
Fernandez (alt)
13 San Mateo County Pre-Hospital Emergency Medical Services Group 
Y
Council
External Agency
Newsom
Lee (alt)
Newsom
Cwirko-Godycki (alt)
14 San Mateo Foster City Public Financing Authority
Council
Internal Agency
Hedges
Cwirko-Godycki
Loraine (alt)
15 South Bayside Waste Management Authority (SBWMA)
Y
Council
External Agency
Loraine
Hedges (alt)
Loraine
Nash (alt)
External Agencies Committee Appointments
16 ABAG Regional Planning Committee - (ABAG-RPC)
COC
External Committee
Hedges
17 Congestion Management and Environmental Quality Committee (CMEQ) 
C/CAG
External Committee
Hedges
19 Member Agency Committee (MAC) for HEART - Annual Meeting
Council
External Committee
Lee
20 Housing and Community Development Committee 
COC
External Committee
Hedges
Internal Committees
21 City Council Audit & Budget Committee (Mayor/Deputy)
Council
Internal Standing Comm
Nash / 
Newsom
Newsom / Loraine
22 City Council Legislative Committee (Mayor/Deputy)
Council
Internal Standing Comm
Nash / 
Newsom
Newsom / Loraine
23 Council of Cities - City Selection Committee (Mayor/Deputy)
Council
Internal Standing Comm
Nash / 
Newsom
Newsom / Loraine
External Liaison
24 City Delegate to Assembly Member Papan 
Council
External Liaison
Hedges
Nash
25 City Delegate to Congressman Mullin 
Council
External Liaison
Lee
Fernandez
26 City Delegate to Senator Becker
Council
External Liaison
Loraine
Loraine
27 City Delegate to Board of Supervisor Corzo
Council
External Liaison
Lee
Loraine
28 Local Policy Makers Group (LPMG) 
Y
Council
External Liaison
Hedges
Nash (alt)
Fernandez
Nash (alt)
29 San Mateo Chamber of Commerce & Downtown San Mateo Association (DSMA)
Y
Council
External Liaison
Hedges
Lee (alt)
Nash 
Fernandez (Alt)
30 San Mateo County Economic Development Association (SAMCEDA)
Council
External Liaison
Nash
Hedges (alt)
Fernandez 
Nash (Alt)
31 San Mateo-Foster City Elementary School Board and San Mateo Union High School 
District Board
Y
Council
External Liaison
Newsom
Newsom
Fernandez (alt)
32 San Mateo Police Activities League (PAL)
Council
External Liaison
-
Internal Liaison
32 Civic Arts Committee (CAC)
Internal Liaison
Lee
Nash
33 Community Relations Commission (CRC) 
Internal Liaison
Loraine
Loraine
34 Library Board
Internal Liaison
Nash
Nash
35 Measure S Oversight Committee
Internal Liaison
Hedges
Cwirko-Godycki
36 Park and Recreation Commission
Internal Liaison
Newsom
Newsom
37 Personnel Board
Internal Liaison
Hedges
Cwirko-Godycki
38 Planning Commission
Y
Internal Liaison
Nash Newsom 
(alt)
Newsom/Loraine
39 Senior Advisory Commission
Internal Liaison
Lee
Fernandez
40 Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Y
Internal Liaison
Loraine
Hedges (alt)
Loraine
Cwirko-Godycki (alt)
41 Youth Activities Council
Internal Liaison
Loraine
Loraine
293 of 293