source: packet.pdf
sha256: 0e2ab4027d773afb04fb1b27dcdc95ceb9da5d078f17d61533046341f7eb872a
pages: 4
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
October 7, 2024
5:30 PM
City Hall Council Chambers
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Lisa Diaz Nash, Mayor
Rob Newsom Jr., Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Amourence Lee
Adam Loraine
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: October 7, 2024
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: [870 5443 1618]      Passcode: [531805]
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
 
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the consideration of these items. Following the meeting a report of action
from Closed Session will be provided if required.
1.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Anticipated Litigation
Initiation of litigation pursuant to paragraph (4) of subdivision (d) of Section 54956.9: (One case)
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
2.
Discussion and Adoption of Strategic Planning Process for the City Council.
Approve the following: (1) incorporate a robust Strategic Plan into the Annual Budget Process, starting with the
Fiscal Year 2026- 2027; (2) develop the Strategic Plan during an off-site workshop by City Council in February
2025; (3) continue the Blue Sky goal-setting workshop to include key Council projects in the Fiscal Year 2026-
2027 annual budget process.
CEQA: This discussion is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1 of 4

--- page 2 ---
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 4

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-1311- 
professional services
File ID: 24-9088
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
October 07, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Discussion and Adoption of Strategic Planning Process for the City Council.
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the following: (1) incorporate a robust Strategic Plan into the Annual Budget Process, starting with the Fiscal Year 
2026- 2027; (2) develop the Strategic Plan during an off-site workshop by City Council in February 2025; (3) continue the 
Blue Sky goal-setting workshop to include key Council projects in the Fiscal Year 2026- 2027 annual budget process.
BACKGROUND:
The City Council is responsible for reviewing and approving an annual budget that funds all city services. This process 
involves several months of public and Council input and review, concluding with a final approval in June, in preparation for 
the Fiscal Year commencing on July 1.
Currently, the process involves the following: 

Blue Sky goal-setting workshop to gather initial public input, identify City Council priorities, and announce major 
department initiatives. 

Preliminary budget to indicate ongoing projects, resources, staffing, facilities, legal requirements and projects, and 
City Council priorities identified during the Blue Sky goal-setting process. 

Finalized proposed budget presented to City Council.

Approval of the final budget.  
The adopted budget provides the financial framework for the fiscal year’s projects and ongoing operations and services.  
Additionally, the City Council may approve necessary adjustments to the budget in response to either unforeseen 
opportunities or challenges.
 
The City Council often faces complex challenges when various demands and interests, regulatory requirements, fiscal 
restraints, and aging infrastructure combat with long-term planning. This impacts the City Council’s overall vision and 
priorities for the City, making it difficult to balance immediate needs with long-term goals.   
 
A robust Strategic Plan would offer a comprehensive framework for City Council to utilize when making decisions for both 
long-term and immediate priorities. It would also guide the Annual budget process and integrate key elements from large 
and long-term planning documents, such as the General Plan and Capital Improvement Projects for greater efficiency and 
impact. 
 
Proposed Strategic Plan Elements
Staff is proposing a Strategic Plan that will incorporate the following elements:
3 of 4

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
Mission Statement: the guiding benchmark for Council decisions, developed and approved by the City Council.
•
Strategic Initiatives: major categories reflecting the long-term concerns and interests of the City, developed by the 
City Council.
•
Strategic Priorities: key initiatives identified by the Council that will guide both direction and financial decisions. 
These priorities may span several years but are reviewed annually.
•
Goals: high-level outcomes established by the Council, related to Strategic Priorities, with typically 2-4 goals per 
priority.
•
Activities: approved and funded projects and programs that align with the Strategic Priorities, developed by staff, 
though reflecting Council interests and direction.
•
Reports: regular reports to the Council reflecting progress and outcomes on approved Activities. Though not part of 
the Strategic Plan document, they are a critical part of the effectiveness of the process and essential for the Council 
in decision-making.
 
The initial Strategic Plan would be developed under the following process, and then reviewed annually thereafter for any 
modifications.
1.
Approval of Concept and Framework: Council approves the overall Strategic Plan concept.
2.
Mission Statement, Strategic Initiatives, and Strategic Priorities: Plan to develop and approve during an off-site 
workshop, tentatively planned for February 2025.
3.
Goals: City Council will approve of Goals in the fall of 2025.
4.
Activities: City Council will approve of Activities and incorporate in the Annual Budget process thereafter.
The off-site workshop will be facilitated by a strategic planning consultant, and staff will provide City Council with resources 
that include General Plan categories (Land Use, Housing, Circulation, Economic Development, Communications and 
Outreach, Sustainability and Climate Change Resilience, Infrastructure and Facilities), Community Conversations summaries, 
and community survey results.  Utilizing these resources, the Council will both identify the long-term Strategic Initiatives and 
the Strategic Priorities.
 
Adopting this new Strategic Plan process will not interfere with the current Blue Sky goal-setting process for the forthcoming 
fiscal year. Council members will submit their top three priorities for consideration and provide the community the 
opportunity to submit public comment. In future years, the Blue Sky goal-setting process will be modified to align with the 
new Strategic Plan priorities identified by City Council while also ensuring opportunities for community input in accordance 
with both law and Council practices.
Staff recommends approving the proposed Strategic Plan process and parameters.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
The total cost of services for facilitation and strategic planning with a consultant will not exceed $10,000. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This discussion is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result 
in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Christina Horrisberger, Assistant City Manager
chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org  
(650) 522-7210
4 of 4