East Bay city reverses course on HOA-controlled Flock Safety cameras Skip to main content Subscribe Bay Area San Francisco Transit Crime Drug Crisis Golden Gate Park COVID-19 Health Data Spotlight PG&E Season of Sharing Housing Crisis Total SF Graying Bay Weather Weather Forecast Air Quality Tracker Climate Drought Fire Tracker Quake Tracker Wildfires Food Top 100 Restaurants Restaurants Restaurant Closures Top Wineries Wine, Beer & Spirits Sports Giants Warriors 49ers A's High School Bay FC Women's Sports College Politics Election 2026 Opinions Chronicle Editorial Board Letters to the Editor Home Insurance Home Insurance Rates Real Estate Find a Home Commercial Real Estate California Tahoe Tech Datebook Event Search Movies & TV Music Theater Dance Arts & Exhibits Classical Books U.S. & World Travel Outdoors Vault: Our S.F. In-Depth Comics Paid Press Releases About Us Newsroom News Terms of Use Code of Conduct Privacy Notice Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads) Advertise With Us Reader Tools Audio Tours Obituaries Place an obituary Newsletters Download our App Store Subscribe Watch | Trending: OpenAI delays IPO | Prop 13 | S.F. Opera strike | Abandoned boat | Egg recall | Lucas Fire | Kamala Harris trespasser Bay Area East Bay city reverses course on HOA-controlled Flock Safety cameras By Aldo Toledo , Staff Writer Aug 17, 2026 A Flock Safety solar powered camera, purchased by the Country Club Vista Homeowners Association in Richmond in 2018. Brentwood officials this past week voted to remove similar cameras from an HOA in their city. Amy Osborne/For the S.F. Chronicle A Contra Costa County city is reversing its decision to let a homeowners association use and have access to Flock Safety cameras set up at a golf course community. The city of Brentwood had permitted four Flock cameras to be installed at the entrances and exits of the Shadow Lakes development. But amid backlash from the community and privacy advocates, the city says the surveillance permit was approved by “mistake.” On Monday, Brentwood Mayor Susannah Meyer told the Chronicle the city has canceled the HOA’s permit because the cameras were installed within the public right-of-way, which requires a separate permit. Advertisement Article continues below this ad After a City Council vote last week, the city has “initiated the process” of canceling the permit, Meyer said, referring to a city of Brentwood statement. City officials said inspectors will go out and verify that the cameras in the public right-of-way are removed. If they aren’t, “the city may perform the restoration and recover its costs from the permittee,” the statement said. The Shadow Lakes Homeowners Association could not immediately be reached for comment. The idea that Flock cameras, which are normally used by municipalities and other government agencies, could be controlled and have footage reviewed by the HOA board drew outrage from the community and critics of Flock. According to the East Bay Times , some residents in the Shadow Lakes community of nearly 800 homes were unaware of the surveillance technology. Advertisement Article continues below this ad “This is not a gated community. It’s a public street, and the people driving on it aren’t all members of the HOA,” said Nathan Fruth, according to the East Bay Times. “If the city wants cameras on public streets, that’s a decision that should be made by the city with public oversight,” Fruth added. “It shouldn’t be something a private organization can decide on its own.” The cameras were installed ostensibly to address “ongoing safety concerns,” according to ABC7 . But during a City Council meeting last week, city officials acknowledged that they had mistakenly approved the HOA’s permit. Brentwood officials said the permit was approved “under the mistaken belief” that the association was applying through the city’s existing police department camera program, which has dozens of license plate readers across the city. The about-face in Brentwood comes as multiple California cities have canceled or suspended their contracts with Flock amid safety concerns. The criticism has prompted Flock Safety to make policy and system reforms to address the backlash, including creating “guardrails” and dropping the default retention period for data from 30 days to seven. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Matthew Guariglia, a senior policy analyst at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, wrote in a post on Friday that those “reforms are a combination of long overdue changes along with some cosmetic fixes that fail to address the fundamental dangers of this technology.” “We should not be letting companies decide how much privacy we deserve,” Guariglia wrote. “If our privacy is determined by how much surveillance technology vendors decide is too much surveillance, then we’re really out of luck.” Aug 17, 2026 Aldo Toledo Breaking News Reporter Adalberto “Aldo” Toledo is a breaking news reporter with the Chronicle. He is a Venezuelan American from a family of longtime journalists. Before joining the Chronicle in 2023, he reported on Peninsula governments and breaking news for the San Jose Mercury News. He also has bylines in the Dallas Morning News, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette and Champaign, Illinois News-Gazette. Raised in Texas, he studied journalism with a print news focus at the University of North Texas Mayborn School of Journalism, where he worked as news editor for the North Texas Daily student newspaper. How to reach Aldo Email aldo.toledo@sfchronicle.com . To share tips securely, use Signal at @aldot29.61. Most Popular 1 . Boat abandoned in East Bay water with stereo playing, keys and cellphone inside 2 . Bay Area homeowners still get huge Prop 13 savings. But in some places, that is shrinking 3 . San Francisco Opera cancels opening night after orchestra goes on strike 4 . Why San Francisco has embraced the ‘pedestrian scramble’ — and more cities are following 5 . Eggs tied to California producer recalled after salmonella outbreak Your Daily Puzzles Pile-Up Poker Poker meets Solitaire. Cards and strategy combine in a new way. Cross|word An approachable redesign to a classic, featuring exclusive weekday puzzles. Flipart A quick daily flip. Finally someone cracked the code on digital jigsaw puzzles. SpellTower Word search but with strategy. Clearing the board feels really good. Around the Web Top of the News Music After strike cancels S.F.’s Opera in the Park, musicians entertain fans who show up San Francisco Opera Orchestra members and their fans gathered at the site of the canceled free concert as crews tore down the stage Sunday. San Francisco Why San Francisco has embraced the ‘pedestrian scramble’ — and more cities are following Tech Sam Altman says OpenAI will not go public this year as AI fears grow Real Estate Bay Area homeowners still get huge Prop 13 savings. But in some places, that is shrinking San Francisco Why a pro-MAGA think tank is cheering a new S.F. homelessness policy Let's Play Cross|word Flipart Really Bad Chess SpellTower Typeshift Wordbind CubeClear Pile-Up Poker Return To Top About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Standards and Practices Sitemap Contact Newsroom Contacts Customer Service Services Advertise With Us e-Edition Mobile App Copyright & Reprints Print Edition Back Issues Archives Newspaper Archive Account Account Settings Email Newsletters Subscriptions Membership About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Standards and Practices Sitemap Contact Newsroom Contacts Customer Service Services Advertise With Us e-Edition Mobile App Copyright & Reprints Print Edition Back Issues Archives Newspaper Archive Account Account Settings Email Newsletters Subscriptions Membership © 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light) DAA Industry Opt Out Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)