--- page 1 ---
Watch | Trending: OpenAI delays IPO | Prop 13 | S.F. Opera strike | Abandoned boat | Egg recall
BAY AREA
By Aldo Toledo, Staff Writer
Sep 11, 2026
San Jose officer used Flock cameras to help relative
track domestic violence victim, chief says
The San Jose police officer made “unauthorized” Flock Safety camera searches related to a “domestic violence matter
involving family members,” police officials said.
SALE: ONLY 25¢
Sign in
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 2 ---
Listen Now:
San Jose officer used Flock cameras to help relative track domestic
violence victim, chief says
About 3 Minutes
1x
A San Jose police officer accessed the department’s license-plate tracking system
to monitor a victim of alleged domestic abuse and give information to his
relative, police confirmed Friday.
The officer used his personal device to make “unauthorized” Flock Safety
camera searches related to a “domestic violence matter involving family
members” while he was off-duty, San Jose police officials said. They did not
identify the officer.
The officer located the victim’s vehicle using the camera system and shared the
victim’s location with the suspect, police said. The Mercury News reported the
suspect was the officer’s cousin and the victim was a woman.
The apparent abuse of the system is another example of a concerning trend
involving police officers across the U.S. abusing the vast surveillance powers of
Flock Safety’s ubiquitous cameras.
The San Francisco Police Department — which has about 400 Flock license-
plate readers — earlier this year investigated an officer who used the city’s Flock
database to search their spouse’s car.
Similar abuses have been reported across the state: an Orange County officer
used Flock to stalk his mistress and romantic rivals, and even continued to use it
Amy Osborne/For the S.F. Chronicle
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 3 ---
after being placed on administrative leave, according to media reports. In
Riverside County, a sheriff’s deputy allegedly used the database to stalk his
former fiancée.
A lawsuit filed in February alleges that Flock allowed out-of-state agencies to
illegally search SFPD’s database over 1.6 million times during a seven-month
period. San Francisco police later cut off Flock access to an out-of-state agency
after a department audit found nearly 300 improper searches of SFPD data over
the course of a year.
On Friday, San Jose police Chief Paul Joseph said he placed his officer on leave
and later terminated him after a criminal probe. 
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 4 ---
Department leaders learned of the case in February 2025, when the victim told
police the officer’s relative knew her location, according to the Mercury News.
The department ran her plate through the system and discovered the officer’s
unauthorized searches, the outlet reported.
San Jose police Chief Paul Joseph on Friday said that an officer who “violates the public’s
trust this severely cannot wear the San Jose badge.”
Mike Tkacheff/San Jose Police Department
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 5 ---
The officer and his relative were not criminally charged.
The department said it has changed its policy to restrict Flock data and all other
law enforcement sensitive systems from being accessed on officers’ personal
devices. 
Joseph said all officers were “admonished that improper access of ALPR and
other law enforcement systems is grounds for termination,” police said. Police
also said they are testing new “smart auditing tools that go even further to flag
possible access without a lawful purpose.”
“When an officer violates the public’s trust this severely, my responsibility is
clear: that person cannot remain in a position of police authority, and they
cannot wear the San Jose badge,” SJPD Chief Paul Joseph said in a statement.
“This technology is new; the standard is not.”
SJPD said it referred the case to the State Commission on Peace Officer
Standards and Training, which has the authority to suspend or revoke a police
officer’s credentials. 
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 6 ---
Sep 11, 2026
Aldo Toledo
BREAKING NEWS REPORTER
Adalberto “Aldo” Toledo is a breaking news reporter with the Chronicle. He is a Venezuelan American from
a family of longtime journalists. Before joining the Chronicle in 2023, he reported on Peninsula
governments and breaking news for the San Jose Mercury News. He also has bylines in the Dallas Morning
News, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette and Champaign, Illinois News-Gazette. Raised in Texas, he studied
journalism with a print news focus at the University of North Texas Mayborn School of Journalism, where he
worked as news editor for the North Texas Daily student newspaper.
How to reach Aldo
Email aldo.toledo@sfchronicle.com. To share tips securely, use Signal at @aldot29.61.
The number of alleged improper searches by law enforcement has prompted
some cities to sour on Flock Safety, with Mountain View turning off its 30
cameras after discovering federal agents were accessing residents’ information. 
Cupertino, Saratoga and Los Altos Hills also have voted to stop using Flock as its
primary license-plate-reader system, while other Bay Area cities are considering
dropping the technology.
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 7 ---
Chronicle Videos
The hottest ticket in
the Bay Area is a
free boat tour
Body-camera video
shows Jed York’s
arrest in Ohio…
Dozens of
immigrants have
been held at SFO f…
San Francisco…
San Francisco…
San Francisco…
Santa Clara…
San Francisco…
San Francisco…
Powered by 
Around the Web
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 8 ---
If You're Collecting Under $3950
In SS a Month: You're Eligible
for These 10 ...
By SilverPenny
Restaurants In Santa Clara With
Good Senior Discounts
By Comparisons.org
Why Your Joint Pain Won't Go
Away: 3 Things You Must Stop
Doing Immediately
By Wellness Guide
Doctors Name 5 Common
Foods Now Tied to Memory
Loss After 60 (See The List)
By Neuro Sharp
What is Holding Your Online
Store Back?
By CheckSiteScore
Remember Her? Take a Deep
Breath Before You See Her Now
By gowdr
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 9 ---
It's Hard to Believe but Every
Guy Had a Crush on Her in The
80s
By Healthtrition
Put a Toilet Paper Roll Under
The Toilet Seat at Night if Alone
(Here's Why)
By LifeHacks Insider
Put Bananas in Your Garden
and Just Watch
By WellnessGaze News
Sandra Bullock's
Measurements Are Absolutely
Insane
By Grateful Finance
How to Beat Spinal Stenosis:
The Hidden Cause Most
Doctors Miss
By SmoothSpine
Taylor Swift's Actual Height And
Weight Will Make You Look
Twice
By Vetob
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 10 ---
Top Of The News
MUSIC
After strike cancels S.F.’s Opera in the Park,
musicians entertain fans who show up
San Francisco Opera Orchestra members and their fans gathered at the site of the canceled free concert as
crews tore down the stage Sunday.
SAN FRANCISCO
Why San Francisco has embraced the ‘pedestrian scramble’ — and
more cities are following
TECH
Sam Altman says OpenAI will not go public this year as AI fears
grow
REAL ESTATE
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 11 ---
Bay Area homeowners still get huge Prop 13 savings. But in some
places, that is shrinking
SAN FRANCISCO
Why a pro-MAGA think tank is cheering a new S.F. homelessness
policy
Let's Play
Cross|word
Flipart
Really Bad Chess
SpellTower
About
Contact
Services
Account
© 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
CA Notice at Collection
Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light)
DAA Industry Opt Out
Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)
Top
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).