--- page 1 ---
Watch | Trending: OpenAI delays IPO | Prop 13 | S.F. Opera strike | Abandoned boat | Egg recall
BAY AREA
By Aldo Toledo, Staff Writer
Aug 17, 2026
East Bay city reverses course on HOA-controlled
Flock Safety cameras
A Flock Safety solar powered camera, purchased by the Country Club Vista Homeowners Association in Richmond in
2018. Brentwood officials this past week voted to remove similar cameras from an HOA in their city. 
SALE: ONLY 25¢
Sign in
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 2 ---
Listen Now:
East Bay city reverses course on HOA-controlled Flock Safety cameras
About 3 Minutes
1x
A Contra Costa County city is reversing its decision to let a homeowners
association use and have access to Flock Safety cameras set up at a golf course
community.
The city of Brentwood had permitted four Flock cameras to be installed at the
entrances and exits of the Shadow Lakes development. But amid backlash from
the community and privacy advocates, the city says the surveillance permit was
approved by “mistake.”
On Monday, Brentwood Mayor Susannah Meyer told the Chronicle the city has
canceled the HOA’s permit because the cameras were installed within the public
right-of-way, which requires a separate permit. 
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
Amy Osborne/For the S.F. Chronicle
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 3 ---
After a City Council vote last week, the city has “initiated the process” of
canceling the permit, Meyer said, referring to a city of Brentwood statement. 
City officials said inspectors will go out and verify that the cameras in the public
right-of-way are removed. If they aren’t, “the city may perform the restoration
and recover its costs from the permittee,” the statement said.
The Shadow Lakes Homeowners Association could not immediately be reached
for comment.
The idea that Flock cameras, which are normally used by municipalities and
other government agencies, could be controlled and have footage reviewed by
the HOA board drew outrage from the community and critics of Flock.
According to the East Bay Times, some residents in the Shadow Lakes
community of nearly 800 homes were unaware of the surveillance technology.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 4 ---
“This is not a gated community. It’s a public street, and the people driving on it
aren’t all members of the HOA,” said Nathan Fruth, according to the East Bay
Times. “If the city wants cameras on public streets, that’s a decision that should
be made by the city with public oversight,” Fruth added. “It shouldn’t be
something a private organization can decide on its own.”
The cameras were installed ostensibly to address “ongoing safety concerns,”
according to ABC7. But during a City Council meeting last week, city officials
acknowledged that they had mistakenly approved the HOA’s permit.
Brentwood officials said the permit was approved “under the mistaken belief”
that the association was applying through the city’s existing police department
camera program, which has dozens of license plate readers across the city.
The about-face in Brentwood comes as multiple California cities have canceled
or suspended their contracts with Flock amid safety concerns. The criticism has
prompted Flock Safety to make policy and system reforms to address the
backlash, including creating “guardrails” and dropping the default retention
period for data from 30 days to seven. 
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 5 ---
Aug 17, 2026
Aldo Toledo
BREAKING NEWS REPORTER
Adalberto “Aldo” Toledo is a breaking news reporter with the Chronicle. He is a Venezuelan American from
a family of longtime journalists. Before joining the Chronicle in 2023, he reported on Peninsula
governments and breaking news for the San Jose Mercury News. He also has bylines in the Dallas Morning
News, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette and Champaign, Illinois News-Gazette. Raised in Texas, he studied
journalism with a print news focus at the University of North Texas Mayborn School of Journalism, where he
worked as news editor for the North Texas Daily student newspaper.
How to reach Aldo
Email aldo.toledo@sfchronicle.com. To share tips securely, use Signal at @aldot29.61.
Matthew Guariglia, a senior policy analyst at the Electronic Frontier
Foundation, wrote in a post on Friday that those “reforms are a combination of
long overdue changes along with some cosmetic fixes that fail to address the
fundamental dangers of this technology.”
“We should not be letting companies decide how much privacy we
deserve,” Guariglia wrote. “If our privacy is determined by how much
surveillance technology vendors decide is too much surveillance, then we’re
really out of luck.”
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 6 ---
Chronicle Videos
Meet the forager
gathering wild
flowers and green…
Why do we love to
hate the cinnamon
raisin bagel?
Inside the Bay Area’s
newest Asian
megastore
San Francisco…
San Francisco…
San Francisco…
Santa Clara…
San Francisco…
San Francisco…
Powered by 
Around the Web
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 7 ---
Restaurants In Santa Clara With
Good Senior Discounts
By Comparisons.org
If You're Collecting Under $3950
In SS a Month: You're Eligible
for These 10 ...
By SilverPenny
Timeshare Resorts Forced To
Refund Owners - Is Yours On
the List?
By SilverPenny
Doctors Name 5 Common
Foods Now Tied to Memory
Loss After 60 (See The List)
By Neuro Sharp
See How It Works - an Easy
Way to Relieve Joint Pain and
Stiffness
By Wellness Guide
How to Beat Spinal Stenosis:
The Hidden Cause Most
Doctors Miss
By SmoothSpine
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 8 ---
Taylor Swift, 34, Takes off
Makeup, Leaves Us With No
Words
By Your Health Agent
Caitlin Clark Steps out With Her
New Partner and Stuns Fans
By Rank Upwards
Remember Her? Take a Deep
Breath Before You See Her Now
By gowdr
Remember Her? Try Not to
Choke When You See Her Now
By gowdr
It's Hard to Believe but Every
Guy Had a Crush on Her in The
80s
By Healthtrition
Sandra Bullock, 61, Shows Her
Huge Size in New Photos
By Grateful Finance
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 9 ---
Top Of The News
MUSIC
After strike cancels S.F.’s Opera in the Park,
musicians entertain fans who show up
San Francisco Opera Orchestra members and their fans gathered at the site of the canceled free concert as
crews tore down the stage Sunday.
SAN FRANCISCO
Why San Francisco has embraced the ‘pedestrian scramble’ — and
more cities are following
TECH
Sam Altman says OpenAI will not go public this year as AI fears
grow
REAL ESTATE
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 10 ---
Bay Area homeowners still get huge Prop 13 savings. But in some
places, that is shrinking
SAN FRANCISCO
Why a pro-MAGA think tank is cheering a new S.F. homelessness
policy
Let's Play
Cross|word
Flipart
Really Bad Chess
SpellTower
About
Contact
Services
Account
© 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
CA Notice at Collection
Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light)
DAA Industry Opt Out
Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)
Top
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).