SJ officer used Flock to track domestic violence victim, chief says Skip to main content Subscribe Bay Area San Francisco Transit Crime Drug Crisis Golden Gate Park COVID-19 Health Data Spotlight PG&E Season of Sharing Housing Crisis Total SF Graying Bay Weather Weather Forecast Air Quality Tracker Climate Drought Fire Tracker Quake Tracker Wildfires Food Top 100 Restaurants Restaurants Restaurant Closures Top Wineries Wine, Beer & Spirits Sports Giants Warriors 49ers A's High School Bay FC Women's Sports College Politics Election 2026 Opinions Chronicle Editorial Board Letters to the Editor Home Insurance Home Insurance Rates Real Estate Find a Home Commercial Real Estate California Tahoe Tech Datebook Event Search Movies & TV Music Theater Dance Arts & Exhibits Classical Books U.S. & World Travel Outdoors Vault: Our S.F. In-Depth Comics Paid Press Releases About Us Newsroom News Terms of Use Code of Conduct Privacy Notice Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads) Advertise With Us Reader Tools Audio Tours Obituaries Place an obituary Newsletters Download our App Store Subscribe Watch | Trending: OpenAI delays IPO | Prop 13 | S.F. Opera strike | Abandoned boat | Egg recall | Lucas Fire | Kamala Harris trespasser Bay Area San Jose officer used Flock cameras to help relative track domestic violence victim, chief says By Aldo Toledo , Staff Writer Sep 11, 2026 The San Jose police officer made “unauthorized” Flock Safety camera searches related to a “domestic violence matter involving family members,” police officials said. Amy Osborne/For the S.F. Chronicle A San Jose police officer accessed the department’s license-plate tracking system to monitor a victim of alleged domestic abuse and give information to his relative, police confirmed Friday. The officer used his personal device to make “unauthorized” Flock Safety camera searches related to a “domestic violence matter involving family members” while he was off-duty, San Jose police officials said. They did not identify the officer. The officer located the victim’s vehicle using the camera system and shared the victim’s location with the suspect, police said. The Mercury News reported the suspect was the officer’s cousin and the victim was a woman. The apparent abuse of the system is another example of a concerning trend involving police officers across the U.S. abusing the vast surveillance powers of Flock Safety’s ubiquitous cameras. The San Francisco Police Department — which has about 400 Flock license-plate readers — earlier this year investigated an officer who used the city’s Flock database to search their spouse’s car. Similar abuses have been reported across the state: an Orange County officer used Flock to stalk his mistress and romantic rivals, and even continued to use it after being placed on administrative leave, according to media reports. In Riverside County, a sheriff’s deputy allegedly used the database to stalk his former fiancée. A lawsuit filed in February alleges that Flock allowed out-of-state agencies to illegally search SFPD’s database over 1.6 million times during a seven-month period. San Francisco police later cut off Flock access to an out-of-state agency after a department audit found nearly 300 improper searches of SFPD data over the course of a year. On Friday, San Jose police Chief Paul Joseph said he placed his officer on leave and later terminated him after a criminal probe. Advertisement Article continues below this ad San Jose police Chief Paul Joseph on Friday said that an officer who “violates the public’s trust this severely cannot wear the San Jose badge.” Mike Tkacheff/San Jose Police Department Department leaders learned of the case in February 2025, when the victim told police the officer’s relative knew her location, according to the Mercury News. The department ran her plate through the system and discovered the officer’s unauthorized searches, the outlet reported. The officer and his relative were not criminally charged. The department said it has changed its policy to restrict Flock data and all other law enforcement sensitive systems from being accessed on officers’ personal devices. Joseph said all officers were “admonished that improper access of ALPR and other law enforcement systems is grounds for termination,” police said. Police also said they are testing new “smart auditing tools that go even further to flag possible access without a lawful purpose.” “When an officer violates the public’s trust this severely, my responsibility is clear: that person cannot remain in a position of police authority, and they cannot wear the San Jose badge,” SJPD Chief Paul Joseph said in a statement. “This technology is new; the standard is not.” SJPD said it referred the case to the State Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training, which has the authority to suspend or revoke a police officer’s credentials. Advertisement Article continues below this ad The number of alleged improper searches by law enforcement has prompted some cities to sour on Flock Safety, with Mountain View turning off its 30 cameras after discovering federal agents were accessing residents’ information. Cupertino, Saratoga and Los Altos Hills also have voted to stop using Flock as its primary license-plate-reader system, while other Bay Area cities are considering dropping the technology. Sep 11, 2026 Aldo Toledo Breaking News Reporter Adalberto “Aldo” Toledo is a breaking news reporter with the Chronicle. He is a Venezuelan American from a family of longtime journalists. Before joining the Chronicle in 2023, he reported on Peninsula governments and breaking news for the San Jose Mercury News. He also has bylines in the Dallas Morning News, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette and Champaign, Illinois News-Gazette. Raised in Texas, he studied journalism with a print news focus at the University of North Texas Mayborn School of Journalism, where he worked as news editor for the North Texas Daily student newspaper. How to reach Aldo Email aldo.toledo@sfchronicle.com . To share tips securely, use Signal at @aldot29.61. Most Popular 1 . Boat abandoned in East Bay water with stereo playing, keys and cellphone inside 2 . Bay Area homeowners still get huge Prop 13 savings. But in some places, that is shrinking 3 . San Francisco Opera cancels opening night after orchestra goes on strike 4 . Why San Francisco has embraced the ‘pedestrian scramble’ — and more cities are following 5 . Eggs tied to California producer recalled after salmonella outbreak Your Daily Puzzles Pile-Up Poker Poker meets Solitaire. Cards and strategy combine in a new way. Cross|word An approachable redesign to a classic, featuring exclusive weekday puzzles. Flipart A quick daily flip. Finally someone cracked the code on digital jigsaw puzzles. SpellTower Word search but with strategy. Clearing the board feels really good. Around the Web Top of the News Music After strike cancels S.F.’s Opera in the Park, musicians entertain fans who show up San Francisco Opera Orchestra members and their fans gathered at the site of the canceled free concert as crews tore down the stage Sunday. San Francisco Why San Francisco has embraced the ‘pedestrian scramble’ — and more cities are following Tech Sam Altman says OpenAI will not go public this year as AI fears grow Real Estate Bay Area homeowners still get huge Prop 13 savings. But in some places, that is shrinking San Francisco Why a pro-MAGA think tank is cheering a new S.F. homelessness policy Let's Play Cross|word Flipart Really Bad Chess SpellTower Typeshift Wordbind CubeClear Pile-Up Poker Return To Top About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Standards and Practices Sitemap Contact Newsroom Contacts Customer Service Services Advertise With Us e-Edition Mobile App Copyright & Reprints Print Edition Back Issues Archives Newspaper Archive Account Account Settings Email Newsletters Subscriptions Membership About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Standards and Practices Sitemap Contact Newsroom Contacts Customer Service Services Advertise With Us e-Edition Mobile App Copyright & Reprints Print Edition Back Issues Archives Newspaper Archive Account Account Settings Email Newsletters Subscriptions Membership © 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light) DAA Industry Opt Out Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)