California man accused of intentionally running over Flock cameras Skip to main content Subscribe Bay Area San Francisco Transit Crime Drug Crisis Golden Gate Park COVID-19 Health Data Spotlight PG&E Season of Sharing Housing Crisis Total SF Graying Bay Weather Weather Forecast Air Quality Tracker Climate Drought Fire Tracker Quake Tracker Wildfires Food Top 100 Restaurants Restaurants Restaurant Closures Top Wineries Wine, Beer & Spirits Sports Giants Warriors 49ers A's High School Bay FC Women's Sports College Politics Election 2026 Opinions Chronicle Editorial Board Letters to the Editor Home Insurance Home Insurance Rates Real Estate Find a Home Commercial Real Estate California Tahoe Tech Datebook Event Search Movies & TV Music Theater Dance Arts & Exhibits Classical Books U.S. & World Travel Outdoors Vault: Our S.F. In-Depth Comics Paid Press Releases About Us Newsroom News Terms of Use Code of Conduct Privacy Notice Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads) Advertise With Us Reader Tools Audio Tours Obituaries Place an obituary Newsletters Download our App Store Subscribe Trending: OpenAI delays IPO | Prop 13 | S.F. Opera strike | Abandoned boat | Egg recall | Lucas Fire | Kamala Harris trespasser U.S. & World // California California man accused of intentionally running over Flock cameras, caught on surveillance By Aidin Vaziri , Staff Writer July 28, 2026 A Pismo Beach man is accused of damaging at least three Flock Safety license plate readers in Monterey County. Investigators said other surveillance cameras near the devices helped them identify him. Monterey County Sheriff’s Office A Pismo Beach man is accused of damaging at least three Flock Safety license plate readers in Monterey County. Investigators said other surveillance cameras near the devices helped them identify him. Monterey County Sheriff’s Office A Pismo Beach man is accused of damaging at least three Flock Safety license plate readers in Monterey County. Investigators said other surveillance cameras near the devices helped them identify him. Monterey County Sheriff’s Office A California man accused of deliberately damaging automated license plate readers was identified using surveillance footage from other cameras near the devices, authorities said Tuesday. Marcus Bee, 40, of Pismo Beach, was arrested on suspicion of felony vandalism after investigators linked him to damage involving at least three Flock Safety cameras in Monterey County, the county sheriff’s office said. The cameras were in the rural communities of Lockwood and Bradley, about 150 miles south of San Francisco. Authorities said the damage totaled thousands of dollars. Advertisement Article continues below this ad “Although Bee intentionally damaged the ALPR cameras, his actions were captured by other surveillance cameras located nearby,” the sheriff’s office said in a statement. Investigators used the recordings and other leads to identify Bee, the agency said. He was booked into the Monterey County Jail, with bail set at $30,000. The sheriff’s office described the damaged devices as public safety infrastructure used to recover stolen vehicles, find missing people and identify vehicles associated with crimes ranging from theft to homicide. Advertisement Article continues below this ad “This arrest sends a clear message that anyone who intentionally damages public safety equipment will be identified, arrested and held accountable,” Monterey County Sheriff Tina Nieto said in a statement. Automated license plate readers photograph passing vehicles and turn license plate numbers and other details — such as a vehicle’s make, model, color, location and the time it was recorded — into searchable information. Law enforcement agencies across the United States increasingly use the systems to generate investigative leads and receive alerts about vehicles reported stolen or connected to crimes. Their expansion has also prompted objections from privacy and civil liberties advocates , who argue that broad networks can produce detailed records of people’s movements even when they are not suspected of a crime. California law requires agencies using automated license plate readers to maintain privacy and security policies and limits how the information may be shared. State and local agencies generally may not share such data with federal or out-of-state law enforcement agencies. The Monterey County Sheriff’s Office said its cameras are not used for federal immigration investigations or civil immigration enforcement. Nieto said damaging the devices would not prevent investigators from continuing to use the technology. “In this case, the suspect’s own actions were captured on surveillance cameras, leading directly to his arrest,” she said. July 28, 2026 Aidin Vaziri Staff Writer Aidin Vaziri is a staff writer and pop music critic at the San Francisco Chronicle. His work has appeared in Rolling Stone, National Geographic and MTV. How to reach Aidin To provide story tips or feedback, email avaziri@sfchronicle.com . Most Popular 1 . Boat abandoned in East Bay water with stereo playing, keys and cellphone inside 2 . Bay Area homeowners still get huge Prop 13 savings. But in some places, that is shrinking 3 . San Francisco Opera cancels opening night after orchestra goes on strike 4 . Why San Francisco has embraced the ‘pedestrian scramble’ — and more cities are following 5 . Eggs tied to California producer recalled after salmonella outbreak Your Daily Puzzles Cross|word An approachable redesign to a classic, featuring exclusive weekday puzzles. Pile-Up Poker Poker meets Solitaire. Cards and strategy combine in a new way. Flipart A quick daily flip. Finally someone cracked the code on digital jigsaw puzzles. SpellTower Word search but with strategy. Clearing the board feels really good. Around the Web Top of the News Music After strike cancels S.F.’s Opera in the Park, musicians entertain fans who show up San Francisco Opera Orchestra members and their fans gathered at the site of the canceled free concert as crews tore down the stage Sunday. San Francisco Why San Francisco has embraced the ‘pedestrian scramble’ — and more cities are following Tech Sam Altman says OpenAI will not go public this year as AI fears grow Real Estate Bay Area homeowners still get huge Prop 13 savings. But in some places, that is shrinking San Francisco Why a pro-MAGA think tank is cheering a new S.F. homelessness policy Let's Play Cross|word Flipart Really Bad Chess SpellTower Typeshift Wordbind CubeClear Pile-Up Poker Return To Top About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Standards and Practices Sitemap Contact Newsroom Contacts Customer Service Services Advertise With Us e-Edition Mobile App Copyright & Reprints Print Edition Back Issues Archives Newspaper Archive Account Account Settings Email Newsletters Subscriptions Membership About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Standards and Practices Sitemap Contact Newsroom Contacts Customer Service Services Advertise With Us e-Edition Mobile App Copyright & Reprints Print Edition Back Issues Archives Newspaper Archive Account Account Settings Email Newsletters Subscriptions Membership © 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light) DAA Industry Opt Out Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)