--- page 1 ---
Trending: OpenAI delays IPO | Prop 13 | S.F. Opera strike | Abandoned boat | Egg recall | Lucas Fire |
U.S. & WORLD // CALIFORNIA
By Aidin Vaziri, Staff Writer
July 28, 2026
California man accused of intentionally running
over Flock cameras, caught on surveillance
SALE: ONLY 25¢
Sign in
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 2 ---
Listen Now:
California man accused of intentionally running over Flock cameras,
caught on surveillance
About 2 Minutes
1x
A California man accused of deliberately damaging automated license plate
readers was identified using surveillance footage from other cameras near the
devices, authorities said Tuesday.
Marcus Bee, 40, of Pismo Beach, was arrested on suspicion of felony vandalism
after investigators linked him to damage involving at least three Flock Safety
cameras in Monterey County, the county sheriff’s office said.
The cameras were in the rural communities of Lockwood and Bradley, about 150
miles south of San Francisco. Authorities said the damage totaled thousands of
dollars.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
A Pismo Beach man is accused of damaging at least three Flock Safety license plate readers in Monterey County.
Investigators said other surveillance cameras near the devices helped them identify him.
Monterey County Sheriff’s Office
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 3 ---
“Although Bee intentionally damaged the ALPR cameras, his actions were
captured by other surveillance cameras located nearby,” the sheriff’s office said
in a statement.
Investigators used the recordings and other leads to identify Bee, the agency
said. 
He was booked into the Monterey County Jail, with bail set at $30,000.
The sheriff’s office described the damaged devices as public safety infrastructure
used to recover stolen vehicles, find missing people and identify vehicles
associated with crimes ranging from theft to homicide.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
“This arrest sends a clear message that anyone who intentionally damages
public safety equipment will be identified, arrested and held accountable,”
Monterey County Sheriff Tina Nieto said in a statement.
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 4 ---
Automated license plate readers photograph passing vehicles and turn license
plate numbers and other details — such as a vehicle’s make, model, color,
location and the time it was recorded — into searchable information.
Law enforcement agencies across the United States increasingly use the systems
to generate investigative leads and receive alerts about vehicles reported stolen
or connected to crimes.
Their expansion has also prompted objections from privacy and civil liberties
advocates, who argue that broad networks can produce detailed records of
people’s movements even when they are not suspected of a crime.
California law requires agencies using automated license plate readers to
maintain privacy and security policies and limits how the information may be
shared. State and local agencies generally may not share such data with federal
or out-of-state law enforcement agencies.
The Monterey County Sheriff’s Office said its cameras are not used for federal
immigration investigations or civil immigration enforcement. 
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 5 ---
July 28, 2026
Aidin Vaziri
STAFF WRITER
Aidin Vaziri is a staff writer and pop music critic at the San Francisco Chronicle. His work has appeared in
Rolling Stone, National Geographic and MTV.
How to reach Aidin
To provide story tips or feedback, email avaziri@sfchronicle.com.
Nieto said damaging the devices would not prevent investigators from
continuing to use the technology.
“In this case, the suspect’s own actions were captured on surveillance cameras,
leading directly to his arrest,” she said.
Powered by 
Around the Web
Restaurants In Santa Clara With
Good Senior Discounts
By Comparisons.org
If You're Collecting Under $3950
In SS a Month: You're Eligible
for These 10 ...
By SilverPenny
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 6 ---
Surgeon Says: "If You Have
Dark Spots, Do This
Immediately" (It's Genius!)
By Gundry MD
Doctors Name 5 Common
Foods Now Tied to Memory
Loss After 60 (See The List)
By Neuro Sharp
Cardiologist Warns Americans:
"Pour Out the Bottled Water"
By Gundry MD
Timeshare Resorts Forced To
Refund Owners - Is Yours On
the List?
By SilverPenny
If You Get Social Security, Don't
Skip This September Benefit
Check
By Super Saving Online
Transform Your Online Store
and Boost Sales Now
By CheckSiteScore
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 7 ---
Caitlin Clark Steps out With Her
New Partner and Stuns Fans
By Gow Dr
Remember Her? Take a Deep
Breath Before You See Her Now
By gowdr
Why People Leave a Foil Spoon
by The Mirror
By LifeHacks Insider
Home Invasion Leads to
Breakthrough Solar Discovery
(12x Better Than Panels)
By The Lost Generator
Top Of The News
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 8 ---
MUSIC
After strike cancels S.F.’s Opera in the Park,
musicians entertain fans who show up
San Francisco Opera Orchestra members and their fans gathered at the site of the canceled free concert as
crews tore down the stage Sunday.
SAN FRANCISCO
Why San Francisco has embraced the ‘pedestrian scramble’ — and
more cities are following
TECH
Sam Altman says OpenAI will not go public this year as AI fears
grow
REAL ESTATE
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 9 ---
Bay Area homeowners still get huge Prop 13 savings. But in some
places, that is shrinking
SAN FRANCISCO
Why a pro-MAGA think tank is cheering a new S.F. homelessness
policy
Let's Play
Cross|word
Flipart
Really Bad Chess
SpellTower
About
Contact
Services
Account
© 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
CA Notice at Collection
Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light)
DAA Industry Opt Out
Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)
Top
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).