--- page 1 ---
Watch | Trending: OpenAI delays IPO | Prop 13 | S.F. Opera strike | Abandoned boat | Egg recall
BAY AREA // CRIME
By Michael Barba, Staff Writer
May 31, 2026
Richmond police arrest suspect in fatal shooting
Richmond police credited license plate readers and Concord officers with helping detain a suspect in a Friday evening
shooting. 
Richmond Police Department
SALE: ONLY 25¢
Sign in
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 2 ---
Listen Now:
Richmond police arrest suspect in fatal shooting
About 1 Minute
1x
Richmond police said they made an arrest Friday in a deadly shooting after
using automated license plate readers to track a suspect vehicle to another Bay
Area city.
The shooting happened on the 200 block of West Nevin Avenue, a cul-de-sac
between the Richmond Parkway and C Street, around 6:27 p.m. Friday, according
to the Richmond Police Department. The adult victim was shot repeatedly and
died at the scene.
The department said its officers “quickly identified a possible suspect” and
followed a suspect vehicle out of town and into Concord using the ALPR
technology, run by the company Flock. Concord police helped take the suspect
into custody later that evening.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 3 ---
May 31, 2026
Michael Barba
ACCOUNTABILITY & PUBLIC SAFETY REPORTER
Richmond police said the suspect was booked on suspicion of murder. The
department did not release any further details about the shooting or the suspect
in a news release.
Richmond is among a spate of Bay Area cities that have recently reconsidered
their relationships with Flock over privacy and data-sharing concerns. However,
the Richmond City Council in March reportedly voted to extend its contract with
Flock through the end of the year.
In this case, Richmond police said the technology was critical in “helping
investigators identify and arrest a homicide suspect within approximately eight
hours of the shooting.”
Police said the investigation is ongoing.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 4 ---
Michael Barba is a reporter covering government accountability and public safety for the Chronicle. He has
covered San Francisco since 2015, first as a staff writer for the San Francisco Examiner and later as a senior
reporter for the San Francisco Standard. During his time at the Standard, Barba’s reporting led to criminal
charges against a building inspector who inspected his own home. He also revealed that Mayor London
Breed secretly directed her appointees to sign undated resignation letters, spurring a new law barring the
practice. In 2022, Barba was honored by the Northern California Chapter of the Society of Professional
Journalists with its Journalist of the Year award. He is a Los Angeles native and a graduate of San Francisco
State University. Barba is on Signal at michaelbarba.42.
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 5 ---
Chronicle Videos
Grateful Dead exhibit
opens in Golden
Gate Park
Pokémon fans flood
San Francisco for
World…
Why those
compostable green
bags are actually a…
San Francisco…
San Francisco…
San Francisco…
Santa Clara…
San Francisco…
San Francisco…
Powered by 
Around the Web
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 6 ---
Scientists Reveal a Shocking
Link Between Dementia and
This Common Routine
By Neuro Sharp
Doctor Said "Knee
Replacement." He Tried This
Joint Supplement 1st
By Wellness Guide
Doctor Begs Seniors: Do This
to Stop Losing Muscle
By ApexLabs
Stop Eating These 3 Foods That
Are Known to Cause Parasites
By Paratoxil
How to Beat Spinal Stenosis:
The Hidden Cause Most
Doctors Miss
By SmoothSpine
Caitlin Clark Steps out With Her
New Partner and Stuns Fans
By Rank Upwards
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 7 ---
Remember Her? Take a Deep
Breath Before You See Her Now
By gowdr
It's Hard to Believe but Every
Guy Had a Crush on Her in The
80s
By Healthtrition
Taylor Swift's Actual Height And
Weight Will Make You Look
Twice
By Vetob
After 60, Leg Strength Comes
From One Simple Daily Move
By ApexLabs
Put a Toilet Paper Roll Under
The Toilet Seat at Night if Alone
(Here's Why)
By LifeHacks Insider
Greta Thunberg's House is a
Big Surprise. Take a Look
By Vetob
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 8 ---
Top Of The News
MUSIC
After strike cancels S.F.’s Opera in the Park,
musicians entertain fans who show up
San Francisco Opera Orchestra members and their fans gathered at the site of the canceled free concert as
crews tore down the stage Sunday.
SAN FRANCISCO
Why San Francisco has embraced the ‘pedestrian scramble’ — and
more cities are following
TECH
Sam Altman says OpenAI will not go public this year as AI fears
grow
REAL ESTATE
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 9 ---
Bay Area homeowners still get huge Prop 13 savings. But in some
places, that is shrinking
SAN FRANCISCO
Why a pro-MAGA think tank is cheering a new S.F. homelessness
policy
Let's Play
Cross|word
Flipart
Really Bad Chess
SpellTower
About
Contact
Services
Account
© 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
CA Notice at Collection
Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light)
DAA Industry Opt Out
Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)
Top
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and
other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use
(including the dispute resolution procedures).