Richmond police arrest suspect in fatal shooting Skip to main content Subscribe Bay Area San Francisco Transit Crime Drug Crisis Golden Gate Park COVID-19 Health Data Spotlight PG&E Season of Sharing Housing Crisis Total SF Graying Bay Weather Weather Forecast Air Quality Tracker Climate Drought Fire Tracker Quake Tracker Wildfires Food Top 100 Restaurants Restaurants Restaurant Closures Top Wineries Wine, Beer & Spirits Sports Giants Warriors 49ers A's High School Bay FC Women's Sports College Politics Election 2026 Opinions Chronicle Editorial Board Letters to the Editor Home Insurance Home Insurance Rates Real Estate Find a Home Commercial Real Estate California Tahoe Tech Datebook Event Search Movies & TV Music Theater Dance Arts & Exhibits Classical Books U.S. & World Travel Outdoors Vault: Our S.F. In-Depth Comics Paid Press Releases About Us Newsroom News Terms of Use Code of Conduct Privacy Notice Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads) Advertise With Us Reader Tools Audio Tours Obituaries Place an obituary Newsletters Download our App Store Subscribe Watch | Trending: OpenAI delays IPO | Prop 13 | S.F. Opera strike | Abandoned boat | Egg recall | Lucas Fire | Kamala Harris trespasser Bay Area // Crime Richmond police arrest suspect in fatal shooting By Michael Barba , Staff Writer May 31, 2026 Richmond police credited license plate readers and Concord officers with helping detain a suspect in a Friday evening shooting. Richmond Police Department Richmond police said they made an arrest Friday in a deadly shooting after using automated license plate readers to track a suspect vehicle to another Bay Area city. The shooting happened on the 200 block of West Nevin Avenue, a cul-de-sac between the Richmond Parkway and C Street, around 6:27 p.m. Friday, according to the Richmond Police Department. The adult victim was shot repeatedly and died at the scene. The department said its officers “quickly identified a possible suspect” and followed a suspect vehicle out of town and into Concord using the ALPR technology, run by the company Flock. Concord police helped take the suspect into custody later that evening. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Richmond police said the suspect was booked on suspicion of murder. The department did not release any further details about the shooting or the suspect in a news release. Richmond is among a spate of Bay Area cities that have recently reconsidered their relationships with Flock over privacy and data-sharing concerns. However, the Richmond City Council in March reportedly voted to extend its contract with Flock through the end of the year. In this case, Richmond police said the technology was critical in “helping investigators identify and arrest a homicide suspect within approximately eight hours of the shooting.” Police said the investigation is ongoing. Advertisement Article continues below this ad May 31, 2026 Michael Barba Accountability & Public Safety Reporter Michael Barba is a reporter covering government accountability and public safety for the Chronicle. He has covered San Francisco since 2015, first as a staff writer for the San Francisco Examiner and later as a senior reporter for the San Francisco Standard. During his time at the Standard, Barba’s reporting led to criminal charges against a building inspector who inspected his own home. He also revealed that Mayor London Breed secretly directed her appointees to sign undated resignation letters, spurring a new law barring the practice. In 2022, Barba was honored by the Northern California Chapter of the Society of Professional Journalists with its Journalist of the Year award. He is a Los Angeles native and a graduate of San Francisco State University. Barba is on Signal at michaelbarba.42. Most Popular 1 . Boat abandoned in East Bay water with stereo playing, keys and cellphone inside 2 . Bay Area homeowners still get huge Prop 13 savings. But in some places, that is shrinking 3 . San Francisco Opera cancels opening night after orchestra goes on strike 4 . Why San Francisco has embraced the ‘pedestrian scramble’ — and more cities are following 5 . Eggs tied to California producer recalled after salmonella outbreak Your Daily Puzzles Pile-Up Poker Poker meets Solitaire. Cards and strategy combine in a new way. Cross|word An approachable redesign to a classic, featuring exclusive weekday puzzles. Flipart A quick daily flip. Finally someone cracked the code on digital jigsaw puzzles. SpellTower Word search but with strategy. Clearing the board feels really good. Around the Web Top of the News Music After strike cancels S.F.’s Opera in the Park, musicians entertain fans who show up San Francisco Opera Orchestra members and their fans gathered at the site of the canceled free concert as crews tore down the stage Sunday. San Francisco Why San Francisco has embraced the ‘pedestrian scramble’ — and more cities are following Tech Sam Altman says OpenAI will not go public this year as AI fears grow Real Estate Bay Area homeowners still get huge Prop 13 savings. But in some places, that is shrinking San Francisco Why a pro-MAGA think tank is cheering a new S.F. homelessness policy Let's Play Cross|word Flipart Really Bad Chess SpellTower Typeshift Wordbind CubeClear Pile-Up Poker Return To Top About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Standards and Practices Sitemap Contact Newsroom Contacts Customer Service Services Advertise With Us e-Edition Mobile App Copyright & Reprints Print Edition Back Issues Archives Newspaper Archive Account Account Settings Email Newsletters Subscriptions Membership About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Standards and Practices Sitemap Contact Newsroom Contacts Customer Service Services Advertise With Us e-Edition Mobile App Copyright & Reprints Print Edition Back Issues Archives Newspaper Archive Account Account Settings Email Newsletters Subscriptions Membership © 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light) DAA Industry Opt Out Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)