source: packet.pdf
sha256: 66304395fc5bf3d371e829198e22922da39ed00156182668d924edc09453c4bf
pages: 10
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Civic Arts Committee
September 13, 2021
4:00 PM
Remote on Zoom
COMMITTEE MEMBERS
Dianne Whitaker, Chair
Robert Gooyer, Vice Chair
Ramiro Maldonado
Ginger Slonaker
Stephen Tabler
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF
THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: September 13, 2021
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Enter Conference ID:
# 819 3355 2288
Passcode: # 182914
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Civic Arts Committee Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the Civic Arts Committee Regular meeting of July 12, 2021. (Whitaker, Gooyer, Tabler)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the Committee at this time. State
law prevents the Committee from taking action on any matter not on the agenda. Your comments may be referred to staff for follow
up.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
2022 Regular Meeting Schedule
Review and approve the Civic Arts Committee Regular Meeting schedule for calendar year 2022.
3.
Art in Public Places 2021 Report & Plan - Recommendation
Recommend approval of the Art in Public Places 2021 Report & Plan to the City Council.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Committee members and staff report on their various assignments and liaison roles and requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1 of 10

--- page 2 ---
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this meeting may
contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or polds@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to
make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: civicartscommittee@cityofsanmateo.org until 12 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your
comments
2 of 10

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Civic Arts Committee 
July 12, 2021 
4:00 PM 
 
REMOTE on ZOOM 
COMMITTEE MEMBERS 
Dianne Whitaker, Chair 
Robert Gooyer, Vice Chair 
Ramiro Maldonado 
Ginger Slonaker 
Stephen Tabler 
  
MINUTES  
 
 
 
This meeting was held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s Executive Order N‐29‐20; in which Brown 
Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the Coronavirus Covid‐19 health emergency. 
CALL TO ORDER 
CTO: 4:03 p.m. 
Roll Call:  
PRESENT: Chair Dianne Whitaker, Vice Chair Robert Gooyer, Stephen Tabler 
EXCUSED: Ramiro Maldonado, Ginger Slonaker 
STAFF: Heather Stewart, Senior Management Analyst 
CONSENT CALENDAR 
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If 
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately. The following items were approved separately due to 
applicable quorums for each. Motion passed as indicated. 
1. 
Approval of minutes of March 3, 2021 
 
Moved: Gooyer; Second: Tabler; passed 3‐0 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit a “Request to Speak” form at this 
time. State law prevents the Committee from taking action on any matter not on the agenda. Your comments may be referred to 
staff for follow up. 
 
Several speakers: Lindsay Raike, Gigi Steyer, Linda all spoke to advocate & object to Sutter Health’s 
closing of the Mickelson pool at Mills‐Peninsula Medical Center and loss of special therapy resource. 
NEW BUSINESS 
2. 
Interactive Pandemic Healing Art ‘Wall’ Proposal ‐ Recommendation to Council 
 
On behalf of community member Amie Tyler who was unable to attend, staff presented the artist’s 
request for a temporary, community engagement art installation in the downtown and requested 
support of $1,600 for construction materials. 
 
Moved: Gooyer, with the limit of sandbags only for structure security; Second: Tabler; passed 3‐0. 
3. 
Review Art in Public Places projects and fund status. 
 
Staff presented and reviewed the Art in Public Places Projects & Values project information. Addressed 
the increase in fund balance due to recent in‐lieu payment. This increase can better facilitate future 
program administrative activities. 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Committee members and staff report on their various assignments and liaison roles and requests for scheduling future items. 
Staff shared the following information received after agenda posting: 
 
Updated the committee with regards to the status of the Equity Art project, resident expressions of thanks for the art 
about town, and continued efforts to develop a public art maintenance plan.  
ADJOURNMENT 
 
Adjourned at 5:01 p.m.
3 of 10

--- page 4 ---
City of San Mateo 
Heather Stewart 
Office (650) 522-7164 
330 West 20th Ave. 
San Mateo, CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
hstewart@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
09.13.2021 
 Civic Arts Committee – Staff Memo 
 
 
Recommendation: 
Review and approve dates and times for the Civic Arts Committee Regular Meeting schedule 
for calendar year 2022. 
Background: 
Per current By Laws for the Civic Arts Committee, the CAC is to have at least one meeting per 
quarter and other meetings as may be determined by the Committee.  To provide a consistent 
and sufficient meeting schedule for both CAC members and applicants, the Committee agreed 
to regular, bi-monthly meeting dates & times.   
This is currently scheduled as the second Monday of every other month from 4-5:30 pm 
virtually on Zoom with in-person meetings determinant on changes in the health orders related 
to COVID-19.  
This is the time for the Committee to discuss and confirm any desired changes to the regular 
schedule, such as different dates or times of day. 
2022 Regular Meeting Schedule: 
 
January 10, 2022 
 
March 14, 2022 
 
May 9, 2022 
 
July 11, 2022 
 
September 12, 2022 
 
November 14, 2022 
To 
Civic Arts 
Committee 
From 
Heather Stewart 
Senior Mgmt. 
Analyst 
Re 
2022 Meeting 
Schedule 
4 of 10

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 21-5133
TO:
Civic Arts Committee
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
September 13, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Art in Public Places 2021 Report & Plan - Recommendation
RECOMMENDATION:
Recommend approval of the Art in Public Places 2021 Report & Plan to the City Council.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo’s Art in Public Places Ordinance (Ordinance) was approved in July 2005 to promote the development 
of cultural and artistic resources within the community (Chapter 23.60, “Art in Public Places”). The Ordinance requires all 
commercial and multi-family development projects with a building permit valuation of $3 million dollars or more to 
provide on-site public art valued at a half percent (0.5%) of their total valuation, or to pay the equivalent amount into the 
“Art in Public Places Fund (Fund).” The Fund is used for program administration, and for acquisition, installation, 
improvement, and maintenance of the artwork funded by the program. 
Report Highlights
The 2021 Annual Report & Plan (Report) for City Council review is required by the Ordinance and provides information 
about projects that have been completed during the 2021 calendar year, projects that are currently in progress, pipeline 
projects, and administrative activities. The Report also describes the Fund’s sources, uses, and current balance. There is 
information about the City’s Comprehensive Fee study to review and update several of the City’s development impact and 
in-lieu fees based on current infrastructure costs. The Council’s final approvals may result in changes of fees for this 
program.
There is a request within the report to recommend approval from City Council to implement the creation of a Public Art 
Master Plan. The previous effort of the Civic Arts Committee to review and suggest revisions to the Ordinance became 
complex and time consuming within the regular meeting schedule, often needing postponement due to project approval 
items. In addition, there have been issues identified within the Ordinance that need alignment with current practices and 
program elements that need further clarification. With the increased public interest in the new art installations and the 
future of public art in the community, this would be a good time and opportunity to refresh the City's visions, goals, and 
core values for the public art program. There now is sufficient funding available to release an Request For Proposal (RFP) 
for a consultant to assist with this effort.
The Equity Art Project has been delayed for several reasons, including contact limitations resulting from the COVID-19 
pandemic. The City Council has direct staff to create a community Diversity & Equity Taskforce. This project has been 
identified to be a part of the upcoming Community Diversity and Equity Taskforce to provide input to the project that will 
help move it forward. 
5 of 10

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
This item is a report review and recommendation of approval to the City Council. There is no budget impact with this 
action. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Art in Public Places 2021 Report & Plan is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Art in Public Places 2021 Report & Plan
STAFF CONTACT
Heather Stewart, Senior Management Analyst
hstewart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7164
6 of 10

--- page 7 ---
1 
Art 
in 
Public 
Places 
2021 
REPORT & 
PLAN 
 
INSIDE 
PG. 2 
 
Art in Public Places 
Program 
 
Art in Public Places 
Fund 
 
Program Policy 
PG. 3 
 
Completed Projects 
PG. 4 
 
Developer Art Values 
 
Equity Public Art Project 
 
In‐Progress & Pipeline 
Projects  
OLYMPIC WANNABES 
WESTLAKE OFFICES 
520 S. EL CAMINO REAL, SAN MATEO 
Glenna Goodacre created both the Vietnam 
Women’s Memorial installed in Washington, 
D.C. and the Sacagawea U.S. Dollar image 
first minted in 2000. A description of her 
inspiration for this piece states:  
“The concept of Olympic Wannabes emerged from Goodacre’s observation of 
children enthusiastically watching the 1996 Olympics, specifically gymnastics. She 
thought of all of the children around the world doing cartwheels, while aspiring 
to reach this highest level of athleticism. Thus, the five poses are modeled off the 
various stages of cartwheels, providing a complex and interesting composition. 
She grappled with the challenge of balancing the movement of the five figures 
with an air of light playfulness. She accomplished this through the invisible base 
that is secured underground, making the children appear as though they are 
floating, frozen in the graceful movement of a cartwheel.” 
Olympic Wannabees
Artist: Glenna Goodacre 
Approximate Dimensions:  
6’ 8” high x 11” wide 
Materials: Bronze 
Developers: Westlake Urban, Inc. 
Completed in March 2021
7 of 10

--- page 8 ---
2 
ART IN PUBLIC PLACES PROGRAM 
DESCRIPTION OF ART IN PUBLIC PLACES ORDINANCE AND PROGRAM 
The City of San Mateo’s Art in Public Places Ordinance (Ordinance) was approved in July 2005 to promote the 
development of cultural and artistic resources within the community (Chapter 23.60, “Art in Public Places”). 
The Ordinance requires all commercial and multi‐family development projects with a building permit valuation 
of $3 million dollars or more to provide on‐site public art valued at a half percent (0.5%) of their total 
valuation, or to pay the equivalent amount into the “Art in Public Places Fund (Fund).” The Fund is used for 
program administration, and for acquisition, installation, improvement and maintenance of the artwork funded 
by the program. The Civic Arts Committee is the advisory body appointed by the City Council to implement the 
Art in Public Places Program (Program) as established by the Ordinance. 
 
ART IN PUBLIC PLACES FUND
 
PROGRAM POLICY 
FUND SOURCES, USES, & FUND BALANCE
The Fund consists of the in‐lieu payments made to the 
program from obligated development projects that 
chose not to install art. As stated in the ordinance, 
these funds are to be used for “acquisition, 
installation, improvement, and maintenance of 
artwork to be displayed in the City, and the 
administration of the Art in Public Places Program.”  
 
Any new art related activities that need expenditure of 
these funds requires a recommendation of approval 
from the Civic Arts Committee to the City Council, and 
the Council’s approval. 
 
The current fund balance in the Art in Public Places 
Capital Improvement Program (CIP) account is 
approximately $605,000. This substantial increase in 
available funds was due to the payment of an in‐lieu 
fee of nearly $400,000 from Pulte Group for the One 
90 project. These funds and any future in‐lieu 
payments will be reserved for future City‐owned 
public art projects, public art maintenance, and 
administrative program activities.  
 
COMPREHENSIVE FEE STUDY  
In fiscal year 2019‐20, the San Mateo City Council 
included a review of the City’s development impact 
fees as a priority in its strategic plan. As a result, in 
2020, the City entered into a contract with two 
consultants, Matrix Consulting Group and Bartle Wells, 
to review and update several of the City’s 
development impact and in‐lieu fees based on current 
infrastructure costs. The Art in Public Places Program 
has been included in that study. City Council is working 
to review and approve the final fee schedule. Their 
decision may result in future fee changes for this 
program. 
 
PUBLIC ART MASTER PLAN 
As noted above, the current Art in Public Places 
ordinance was established in 2005. With the robust 
addition of public art throughout the City since then, art 
has become more visible and appreciated by our San 
Mateo residents and visitors from near and far. 
 
After fifteen plus years, there has been a growth and 
maturing of the program. There have been a variety of 
elements of the ordinance identified that need revision, 
and processes and procedures that need to be in better 
alignment with current practices. 
 
With those learnings and the growing interest in public 
art activities, it would be a timely effort for the City to 
create a Public Art Master Plan. With the engagement 
of the community, this document can help to refine the 
vision, goals, and core values of the City’s public art 
program. It can help identify the different types of art, 
how to acquire art, where it is placed, and how it’s 
cared for.  The plan can also provide important 
administrative guidelines and processes for both the art 
required from private developments as well as public 
acquisition and/or installation.  
 
The fund now has a sufficient balance that can support 
contracting a consultant to help develop the City’s 
Public Art Master Plan. An estimate for this effort is 
approximately $40,000‐$70,000. Staff recommends the 
Civic Arts Committee request approval from the City 
Council to initiate this effort. 
8 of 10

--- page 9 ---
3 
COMPLETED PROJECTS 
ART INSTALLED BY DEVELOPERS AT THEIR PROJECT LOCATIONS  
Two projects fully completed their art installations in 2021: Westlake Offices as highlighted on the front page 
and Azara apartments at 1650 S. Delaware shown below. Formal completion of art projects requires 
installation in accordance with the approved proposal and final inspections for all art related building permits, 
the provision of financial documents confirming the obligated expenditures, and a recorded Covenant of Public 
Art Maintenance with San Mateo County to establish the property owner’s obligation to maintain the art.  
 
MOSAIC ARCH 
AZARA APARTMENTS 
1650 S. DELAWARE, SAN MATEO 
 
“Our tile art design draws inspiration form the Mediterranean architectural style of the building, and from the bold 
geometrics used in the interior decor. We chose strong contrasts for the sunburst, softened by warm earth tones 
surrounding the arch, for a Moroccan marquetry feel.” 
 
 
 
Artists: Colette Crutcher and Aileen Barr 
Approximate Dimensions:  
15’ high x 23’ wide 
Materials: A mix of high fire handmade 
tile, glass, ceramic and commercial tiles 
including relief and sculptural elements 
Developers: Four Corners Properties 
Completed in June 2021 
9 of 10

--- page 10 ---
4 
DEVELOPER ART 
VALUES 
VALUE OF COMPLETED ART INSTALLATIONS 
The value of the two (2) projects completed this year 
totaled $514,8526. That amount reflects nearly 50% 
greater expenditure than the total obligated value. 
 
The total installed art valuation for all projects in the 
current Art in Public Places Program totals $5,875,460. 
That results in $1,305,458 greater than the required 
art investment. The total in‐lieu contributions are an 
additional $760,231, which helps to sustain the Art in 
Public Places Fund with both completed and future 
public art installations and activities. 
 
EQUITY PUBLIC ART 
PROJECT  
SUPPORTING RACIAL EQUITY  
In July 2020, the City Council adopted a resolution 
reaffirming the City of San Mateo’s commitment to 
racial equality and equity. The Council discussed the 
concept of a community mural or other community art 
project that would reflect and promote racial equity. As 
directed by the Council, the Civic Arts Committee (CAC) 
discussed and approved a proposed process to 
encourage community members to work with the CAC 
for planning and recommendation of an art project to 
Council. It was the desire to have these members help 
define the process that would work best for community 
members to participate. The continuing COVID‐19 
pandemic and some lack of definitive information 
available on time of commitment required were 
resulting in an inability to move forward. This project 
has been identified to be a part of the upcoming 
Community Diversity and Equity Taskforce to provide 
input to the project that will help move it forward. 
 
IN‐PROGRESS & PIPELINE PROJECTS 
This group of developer projects includes projects that have received Planning approval and have indicated 
intent to install art and are working on their proposals. Others are determining the project’s plans to meet the 
public art obligations. 
 
 
480 E. 4th Ave: Kiku Crossing ‐ MidPen Housing & City‐Owned Downtown site for Affordable Housing & Parking Garage
 
406 E. 3rd Avenue: Four‐story mixed‐use building with office space and 25 residential units 
 
210 S. Fremont: Four‐story, 15‐unit residential condominium building. 
 
2940 S. Norfolk: Hampton Inn & Suites 
 
303 Baldwin: Four & five story mixed use building with 64 residential units, office, and retail spaces 
 
115 Monte Diablo: Synagogue & Child Care Facility 
 
1 Carey School Lane: School addition. Approved deferral to June 20, 2022 completion. 
 
 
10 of 10