source: packet.pdf
sha256: f40afc836a8efe3cb8012c73764d8258fb7f54e43e5fbf9cc4304a7060ced7a2
pages: 7
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
July 15, 2024
5:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber 330 W.
20th Avenue San Mateo CA 94403
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Lisa Diaz Nash, Mayor
Rob Newsom Jr., Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Amourence Lee
Adam Loraine
 
AGENDA
.THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: July 15, 2024
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 858 9743 7311       Passcode: 212711
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
 
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the consideration of these items. Following the meeting a report of action
from Closed Session will be provided if required.
1.
Conference with Labor Negotiators (Government Code Section 54957.6) ​
City designated representatives: Yumi Maeda, Karen Huang, Abby Veeser and Stacey Cue.
Employee Organizations: Police Sergeants’ Association, San Mateo City Employees Association, SEIU Maintenance
and SEIU Non-Merit Part-Time
2.
Conference with Legal Counsel - Existing Litigation, Workers' Compensation
(Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Government Code Section 54956.9
Name of the case: Ryan Cronin
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of this item.
3.
Train Horn Noise – Status Update
Receive a presentation on the status of efforts to minimize train horn noise impacts and provide feedback.
CEQA: This action of receiving an informational update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an
organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).) In addition, this informational update is exempt from CEQA,
in that it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that an informational update on the establishment
of train horn quiet zones may have a significant effect on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)
(3).)
1 of 7

--- page 2 ---
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 7

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-4662
File ID: 24-8731
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
July 15, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Train Horn Noise – Status Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a presentation on the status of efforts to minimize train horn noise impacts and provide feedback.
BACKGROUND:
Since 2017, reducing train horn noise impact on residents at City at-grade crossings has been a priority for City Council. 
Staff presented potential approaches to establishing a “Quiet Zone” in August 2018, January 2020, and June 2023. The plan 
focuses on implementing Federal Railroad Administration-approved safety measures at specific crossings, including 25th 
Ave, 4th Ave, 5th Ave, E. Bellevue Ave, and Villa Terrace.
Federal Railroad Administration Requirements
Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) mandates train horn use at at-grade crossing, occupied station platforms, 
construction zones, and when a trespasser is spotted by the conductor in the railroad right of way. In 2005, the FRA 
established Title 29, Part 222, titled “Use of Locomotive Horns at Public Highway-Rail Grade Crossings,” also known as the 
“Train Horn Rule.” The Train Horn Rule allows cities to establish a “Quiet Zone” to restrict the use of train horn noise along 
train corridors. 
In order to establish a “Quiet Zone”, a city must implement FRA-approved safety measures at a number of at-grade 
crossings within the proposed segment. FRA-approved safety measures include upgraded four-quadrant gates (as opposed 
to the standard two-quadrant gates currently used in the City), concrete medians, street closures, and one-way street 
conversions. A “Quiet Zone” may only take effect after all FRA-approved safety measures are installed and operational. 
In addition to implementation of FRA-approved safety measures, cities must certify that the FRA-approved safety 
measures sufficiently mitigate the increased risk of collision resulting from restricting train horns, based on a collision risk 
assessment. Eligibility of an established “Quiet Zone” is reassessed periodically through the FRA‘s risk assessment process, 
as the proposed segment’s risk index may change based on changes to traffic volumes or in case of any collisions at the at-
grade crossings. Even within a “Quiet Zone,” horns must sound when trains approach occupied station platforms, 
construction zones, or whenever a trespasser is spotted by the conductor in the railroad right of way.
DISCUSSION:
On June 20, 2023, the City Council held a study session where staff discussed various scenarios for “Quiet Zone” 
qualification. Council supported the following projects, which were recommended by a 2022 Quiet Zone Traffic and 
Transportation Study (2022 Traffic Study) as the most cost-effective and fastest option for the City to establish a “Quiet 
Zone” with minimal impacts on residents and businesses:
•
Villa Terrace: The permanent closure of the Villa Terrace at-grade crossing. Pedestrians, bicyclists, and motorists 
3 of 7

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
will no longer be able to cross the railroad tracks at this location.
•
E. Bellevue Ave: Installation of 100-foot traffic medians near the railroad crossing on both sides of the tracks.
The 2022 Traffic Study comprehensively analyzed potential impacts on traffic circulation, transit, walking, cycling, and 
emergency services and considered how traffic would reroute on various alternate routes if the at-grade crossing were closed. 
The 2022 Traffic Study also evaluated the amount of congestion occurring at various intersections in the neighborhood and 
concluded that closure at Villa Terrace would result in minimal changes to congestion levels at all intersections studied. Findings 
also included that closing Villa Terrace was found to be preferable over closing E. Bellevue Avenue.
On February 19, 2019, City Council authorized Public Works to enter into agreements with three firms, including Bellecci & 
Associates, Inc. (Bellecci) for on-call professional consulting services for various capital improvement projects. In January 
2024, after soliciting proposals from all three on-call consultants, the City selected Bellecci for design and project 
management support of the FRA-approved safety measures at Villa Terrace and E. Bellevue Ave (Project). 
Public Outreach and Education
To ensure community engagement and transparency, staff conducted extensive outreach efforts to gather feedback and 
inform residents about the proposed Project. The outreach was initiated following Council’s request for robust community 
involvement prior to advancing the Project’s design.
Staff’s comprehensive outreach strategy encompassed various methods to reach a broad spectrum of residents and 
businesses including:
•
Bilingual outreach materials: Approximately 3,000 mailed notices, E-news updates, and physical posters were 
distributed at the proposed project sites, ensuring accessibility to diverse language communities within the City.
•
Coordination with local stakeholders: Staff engaged with neighborhood schools and property management 
companies to disseminate information and encourage participation from residents directly impacted by the 
proposed changes.
•
Utilization of City social media platforms: Regular updates and information about the project were shared on 
official City social media channels to reach a wider audience and encourage participation.
•
Direct engagement: Door-knocking efforts were conducted at over 300 homes to personally engage with residents, 
answer questions, and gather feedback on their concerns and preferences regarding the Project.
•
Online community survey: A comprehensive online community survey was conducted to gather input from 
residents regarding their views on the proposed Project and its potential impacts on their daily lives.
The community survey results included participation from 201 members of the community. The results indicated strong 
support for the Project among the majority of participants, who described the current train noise as disruptive and 
negatively impacting their quality of life, particularly affecting sleep patterns. Additionally, participants expressed a desire 
for increased safety measures associated with the proposed improvements.
Key findings from the community survey include:
•
90% of participants were aware of alternative routes in the event of the closure of the Villa Terrace crossing.
•
66% of participants expressed support for the closure of Villa Terrace to minimize train horn noise.
•
59% of participants were in favor of installing medians on E. Bellevue Ave to minimize train horn noise.
However, concerns were raised by some residents regarding potential traffic congestion on alternate routes and 
movement restrictions due to the proposed medians. Opponents of the Project cited worries about driveway access, 
parking removal, median visibility, and overall traffic management.
Preliminary Design Considerations
During the preliminary design phase, staff meticulously worked to address community feedback and concerns to ensure 
that the Project maintains emergency vehicle access, improves median visibility, evaluates speeding concerns, and 
preserves parking spaces where feasible.
4 of 7

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
One significant consideration revolves around emergency vehicle turnaround, particularly considering the closure of the 
Villa Terrace at-grade crossing, which will create cul-de-sacs on both sides of the tracks. The Fire Code mandates a 
turnaround for fire access on roads exceeding 150 feet in length, necessitating a solution for the approximately 350-foot 
road on the west side of the tracks. To address this, a T-shaped "hammerhead" style turnaround has been proposed, 
allowing for safe and efficient maneuvering and egress of emergency vehicles. Staff continues to support San Mateo 
Consolidated Fire Department in their efforts to secure an emergency access easement for accessing private property to 
implementation this T-shaped "hammerhead” style turnaround solution.
For E. Bellevue Ave medians, staff is proposing installation of two 100-foot concrete medians adjacent to the railroad 
tracks. To meet FRA requirements, medians have to be a minimum of six inches tall and two feet wide. However, due to 
this installation, five properties directly in front of the proposed concrete medians will lose the ability to make left turns 
into and out of their driveways. The majority of residents on E. Bellevue Ave will not be affected by this change. Ensuring 
better visibility of the medians is a priority, staff is considering strategies such as improved striping and installing reflective 
delineator posts and reflective pavement markers.
Staff recognizes the importance of addressing speeding issues to ensure the safety of residents and enhance overall traffic 
flow. To assess the extent of speeding on E. Bellevue Ave, staff will conduct a speed survey, which utilizes automated 
equipment to measure vehicular speeds. This survey, to be completed by Fall 2024, will evaluate whether the prevailing 
speed on the street exceeds City thresholds for safe operation. Depending on the results of the speed survey, 
recommendations may be made for implementing various traffic calming measures (e.g. speed cushions) as part of the 
Project’s scope.
Preserving parking spaces where feasible while maintaining unimpeded emergency access is also a priority. Staff evaluated 
installing centered medians versus offsetting medians, which would be able to accommodate both travel lanes and parking 
on one side of the street. After staff’s extensive discussions with the San Mateo Consolidated Fire, the current design 
incorporates centered medians to ensure adequate space for emergency responders and their vehicles during an 
emergency. The current design proposes the addition of two parking spots on Villa Terrace and parking removal of five 
parking spots on E. Bellevue Ave. Strategies such as clear signage, designated red curb, and careful parking area 
delineation will be considered to optimize parking availability and emergency response capabilities.
Parking Data Collection, Analysis, and Supply Options
To gain a more comprehensive picture of the existing parking supply, staff conducted parking data collection and analysis 
within the area bounded by E. Poplar Avenue, N. San Mateo Drive, Grand Blvd, and N. Claremont St. This involved 
evaluating the roadway infrastructure to determine a physical parking supply totaling approximately 306 spaces. This 
calculation included assessing curb space that has no parking restrictions and counting the number of 22-foot parallel 
parking stalls present in this zone. Additionally, the removal of five parking spaces on E. Bellevue is anticipated to prompt 
residents to utilize available parking spots within this defined boundary area.
Staff identified the following ongoing, near-term (within the next year), and long-term (within 1-2 years) parking supply 
options to introduce to the community to help address the potential parking supply concerns arising from the removal of 
five parking spots:
•
Driveway Apron Parking (ongoing) – residents in single-family or duplexes may park parallel to the curb in the 
driveway apron. This creates additional parking spaces in the neighborhood and provides the opportunity to 
reserve these spaces for residents. 
•
Existing Red Curb Removal (near-term) – evaluation of the existing red curb in the neighborhood identified up to 
four parking spaces that could potentially be created as part of the Project.
•
Zoning Code Updates (long-term) – Staff to complete a comprehensive zoning code update as part of the General 
Plan 2040 Update and Housing Element implementation. This may include amendments to the Municipal Code to 
permit wider driveways and/or to relax restrictions on hardscape, thereby enabling residents to create additional 
parking spaces on their properties.
•
Off-street Parking Incentives (long-term) – Staff to explore a new policy or Municipal Code amendments that 
5 of 7

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
would provide incentives to upcoming private development projects in exchange for providing additional off-street 
parking.
•
Complete Streets North Central Plan (long-term) – implementation of plan recommendations, such as 
neighborhood permits, options for work vehicle parking, and Municipal Code amendments that would increase 
parking available on-site for residential uses. 
These parking supply options have the potential to mitigate some of the impacts associated with the Project and help 
address on-going parking concerns raised by residents. 
Railroad Stakeholder Coordination
Staff initiated coordination with Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board (PCJPB) in early 2024 due to the proximity of the 
Project’s FRA-approved safety measures to PCJPB Right-of-Way. Subsequently, on May 20, 2024, City Council approved 
execution of a Service Agreement with PCJPB review for their review of the Project’s design of in accordance with PCJPB 
design and safety standards, and overall coordination for the Project.
Staff have continued work on 4th and 5th Avenue Railroad Grade Crossings projects, which include installation of four-
quadrant gates at 4th Avenue and 5th Avenue. Staff completed the City’s portion of the project in April 2024 and will 
continue to support and coordinate with PCJPB regarding construction of their portion, which is anticipated to be 
complete in early 2025.
On May 15, 2024, a diagnostic field meeting, the first of four FRA-required administrative steps to establish a “Quiet Zone” 
was held with Bellecci and all required railroad stakeholders (e.g., FRA, California Public Utilities Commission, and PCJPB). 
The purpose of the meeting was to discuss the Project and ensure proposed improvements conform to federal, state, and 
railroad requirements. During this meeting, railroad stakeholders communicated that they require additional signage and 
minor striping changes for safety at several at-grade crossings and emphasized the importance for on-going maintenance. 
At Villa Terrace, railroad stakeholders also required 8-ft. tall fences with sufficient access for maintenance, including utility 
access gates to be installed on the west side and east side of the tracks. The City acknowledges these requirements and is 
committed to and expected to comply with the railroad stakeholders in order to establish and maintain a “Quiet Zone.”
NEXT STEPS:
Next steps in advancing establishment of a City-Wide Train “Quiet Zone” include:  
•
Staff to continue and finalize the design of FRA-approved safety measures at Villa Terrace and E. Bellevue Avenue;
•
Staff to advertise the Project and begin the construction of FRA approved safety measures at Villa Terrace and E. 
Bellevue Ave after the design is complete; 
•
Staff to implement safety measures and address comments brought up by all railroad stakeholders during the 
diagnostic field meeting; and
•
After completion of all FRA approved safety measures, staff to work with all railroad stakeholders to complete 
administrative steps to establish a City-Wide Train “Quiet Zone” and complete associated maintenance activities 
of installed safety measures.
COUNCIL FEEDBACK:
Staff is seeking Council feedback on the progress to-date and next steps for establishing a “Quiet Zone.”  
•
Does Council have any concerns with the proposed closure at Villa Terrace?  
•
Does Council have any concerns with the proposed median improvements on E. Bellevue Ave, with primary design 
impacts being removal of five parking spaces and restricting access to and from homes within the median area to 
only right turns?  
•
Does Council support continued pursuit of the “Quiet Zone” as proposed by staff?
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact due to the presentation of this informational item. These planning efforts and budget for 
implementation of FRA approved safety measures at Villa Terrace and E. Bellevue Ave are funded by the Train Quiet Zone 
6 of 7

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Project (#462205).
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action of receiving an informational update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).) In addition, this informational update is exempt from CEQA, in that it can be seen with certainty that 
there is no possibility that an informational update on the establishment of train horn quiet zones may have a significant 
effect on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).) 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Karen Magallanes, Assistant Engineer
kmagallanes@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7576
 
Tina Pham, Senior Engineer
tpham@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7305
7 of 7