source: packet.pdf
sha256: 7c6406a6a271438901071aed12c896ea81a25b2403ecc44d14d323ed0dbec795
pages: 39
ocr_pages: 9
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Community Relations Commission 
July 17, 2024
7:00 PM
City Hall-Conference Room C
330 W 20  Avenue
San Mateo, Ca 94403
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Meghan Crowell- Chair
Sheri Boles- Vice Chair
Jerrold Nugent
Alli Fitzgerald
Jennifer Kim
 
AGENDA
 
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here:   Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 889 1678 4195     Passcode: 351193
Commissioner Jennifer Kim will be participating remotely at the following location: 450 Lexington Ave, New York, NY
10017.
The meeting will conclude by 9:00 pm unless otherwise agreed upon by the Community Relations Commission to adjourn
earlier or extend the length of the meeting. 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
1.
Approval of Minutes
Approve minutes of the Community Relations Commission meeting of April 17, 2024.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to Speak"
form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be referred to
staff for further review.
NEW BUSINESS
th
1 of 39

--- page 2 ---
2.
2025 Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Public Facilities Funding Recommendations
That the Community Relations Commission provide recommendations for which public facilities projects should
receive Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding for the 2025-2026 Program Year.
3.
Election of New Officers
Election of Chair and Vice-Chair for 2024 - 2025
4.
Update on Community Relations Commission Scope Expansion to Include Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI)
Receive an update from staff on the expansion of the scope of the Community Relations Commission to include
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) initiatives and provide input on its implementation.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments, calendar of events and requests for future agenda items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org. Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the oﬃcial record.
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. To
speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate me.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda.
To indicate you want to provide public comment, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Housing Division at
rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org or (650) 522-7223.
Notiﬁcation 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Housing Division at
rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org or (650) 522-7223.
Notiﬁcation 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 39

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 
File ID: 24-8889
TO:
Community Relations Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Community Development Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
July 17, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Approval of Minutes
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve minutes of the Community Relations Commission meeting of April 17, 2024.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - April 17, 2024 Regular Meeting minutes
STAFF CONTACT
Nicky Vu, Housing Specialist
nvu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7229
3 of 39

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
COMMUNITY RELATIONS COMMISSION – REGULAR MEETING         
MINUTES – April 17, 2024
The April 17, 2027 Regular Meeting of the Community Relations Commission (CRC) was called to order virtually 
over Zoom at 7:00 pm. Chair Crowell called the meeting to order.
ROLL CALL
Commissioners Boles, Crowell, Fitzgerald, and Nugent were present.
CITY STAFF PRESENT
Nicholas Vu, Housing Specialist was present.  
CONSENT CALENDAR / APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The minutes of the February 21, 2024 meeting were approved. (Boles/Fitzgerald; 4-0-0)
PUBLIC COMMENT
None
NEW BUSINESS
1.
Community Development Block Grant Draft 2024-25 Annual Action Plan
That the Commission recommend the 2023-24 Annual Action Plan for approval by City Council at the May 6, 2024 
regular meeting.
The CRC voted to recommend approval of the 2024-25 Annual Action Plan to the City Council. (Nugent/Crowell; 4-0-
0)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
No reports or announcements were made.
ADJOURNMENT
With no further business before the Commission, the meeting adjourned at 7:15 pm (Fitzgerald/Boles; 4-0-0).
4 of 39

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 24-8887
TO:
Community Relations Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
July 17, 2024 
SUBJECT:
2025 Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Public Facilities Funding Recommendations
RECOMMENDATION:
That the Community Relations Commission provide recommendations for which public facilities projects should receive 
Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding for the 2025-2026 Program Year.
BACKGROUND:
Each year, the City of San Mateo (City) receives an entitlement grant from the United States Department of Housing and 
Urban Development (HUD) for the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program. The City grants CDBG funds to 
non-profit organizations that serve low-income residents (below 80 percent of Area Median Income, (AMI)) of San Mateo, 
following the funding priorities and budget laid out in the City’s Annual Action Plan. The City uses CDBG funds to assist the 
public in the following categories: public services, economic development, community development, fair housing 
administration, minor home rehabilitation, and public facilities.
Public facilities may qualify for CDBG funding assistance if they are owned by a non-profit organization, are open to the 
public during normal working hours, and primarily benefit low- and moderate-income individuals by either nature of their 
location or through verification of income of their clients served. Eligible activities include: rehabilitation, system 
replacements, energy efficiency improvements, handicap accessibility, and architectural design feature changes. 
The CDBG jurisdictions within San Mateo County have worked together to provide a consolidated application process 
online through City Data Services (CDS), so that agencies may apply to several jurisdictions at the same time. Each 
jurisdiction sets its own criteria for selection. Public services grant recommendations were made by the CRC at the April 
17, 2024 meeting and incorporated into the 2024-2025 Annual Plan, which was approved by City Council on May 6, 2024 
and subsequently submitted to HUD. 
Public facilities applications were due on June 7, 2024, which would place them to be incorporated into the 2025-2026 
Annual Action Plan. The CRC funding recommendation at this meeting is therefore for public facilities improvements grants 
in CDBG Program Year 2025-2026. The CDBG public facilities budget is estimated to be approximately $100,000 for 
Program Year 2025-2026.
PROPOSAL REVIEW:
The City received a total of two (2) applications seeking CDBG funding for public facilities upgrades. City staff reviewed 
each application for completeness and confirmed CDBG eligibility. All organizations met the requirements. 
When evaluating the proposals, staff recommends that the CRC consider overall quality of the submittal, how well the 
proposal addresses community needs, and the organizational experience and capacity of the applicant agency. 
5 of 39

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
In determining its funding recommendations, staff recommends that the CRC take into consideration both the limited 
amount of CDBG public facilities funds and the need for awarded projects to comply with CDBG regulations. Both 
proposals cannot be fully funded, as the total amount requested by both applicants ($149,077) exceeds the anticipated 
CDBG Program Year 2025-2026 public facilities budget of $100,000. Additionally, it can be difficult for projects with a small 
budget to successfully utilize an open bid process to solicit contractors and receive multiple qualified bids, as CDBG 
regulations require for construction projects.
The two proposals are summarized below, and the full proposals can be found in Attachments 1 and 2.
HIP Housing - HIP Housing was a long-time recipient of the CDBG funds through the City and has been a City partner in 
both providing affordable housing units and maintaining their home-sharing program, which matches tenants who are 
unable to afford the high rents in the City with homeowners who are willing to rent out spare rooms in their homes. HIP 
Housing is requesting $100,000 in assistance for handicap accessibility improvements in their new program office at 111-
115 5th Avenue in San Mateo. The scope of work includes replacing a broken elevator to increase accessibility for clients 
and staff and remodeling a bathroom to conform with Americans with Disability Act (ADA) standards.
Community Overcoming Relationship Abuse (CORA) – CORA is a current recipient of the CDBG public service program, 
providing advocacy and legal assistance to survivors of domestic violence. All clients served by CORA are presumed CDBG 
beneficiaries as victims of domestic violence. CORA is requesting $49,077 for improvements at their program headquarters 
at 2211/2205 Palm Avenue in San Mateo. The scope of work would include replacing their HVAC system and remodeling 
the breezeway leading from the parking lot to the main office entry.
The CRC’s funding recommendations will be incorporated into San Mateo’s Annual Action Plan that will be approved by 
the City Council in 2025. Any uncommitted funds remaining from the CDBG public facilities budget for 2025-26 can be 
incorporated into future public facilities projects, including at City-owned community facilities, as provided in the City’s 
Annual Action Plan.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The final CDBG entitlement to the City for the 2025-26 Program Year has not yet been confirmed by HUD. Staff is 
estimating that $100,000 will be available for public facilities improvements. Future budget changes may impact the 
funding available for both Program Years and contracts will be amended in consideration of funding available. 
All grants will be subject to contract execution in compliance with HUD regulations and upon final City Council 
authorization of the Business Plan for the City of San Mateo.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This community funding program is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not 
cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – HIP Housing Public Facilities Application
Att 2 – CORA Public Facilities Application
STAFF CONTACT
Nicky Vu, Housing Specialist II
nvu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7229
6 of 39

--- page 7 ---
6/24/24, 4:33 PM
City Data Services - San Mateo
City of San Mateo Public Facilities
Application for Funds
FY 2024-25
Application Summary
Project Title:
HIP Housing Elevator Repair
Project Address: 
111-115 E. 5th Avenue
City: San Mateo
Zip: 94401-4108
Project APN:
034-173-130 & 34-17-173-13A
Provide a one sentence project summary:
Elevator repair in soon to be acquired HIP Housing office building.
A. Funding request for this Public Facility Project is for: (check as many as applicable):
Property Acquisition
Rehabilitation/Physical Improvements
Removal of architectural barriers
New Construction
Predevelopment Costs
Relocation (of residential or commercial occupants)
B. CDBG National Objective Determination
Beneficiaries of the facility must be at least 51% low income persons.
Which of the following benefit criterion best matches your request for funds?
Removal of Architectural Barriers affecting mobility of seniors or severely disable adults. (Documentation of client status is required.)
C. Income/Presumed Benefit Verification: Describe how you obtain, verify, and maintain proof of income and
presumed benefit status. Third party documentation or client signatures on the certification forms must be available
on file for review at all times.
As a requirement of participation in the programs, applicants must provide documentation of their source(s) of
income, including paycheck stubs, bank statements, tax returns, income award letters, confirmation of support from
family or other sources, etc. Additionally, applicants sign an Income Documentation form confirming their source(s)
of income and annual income amount.
Project Details
Total Amount Requested under this NOFA:
$100,000
Total Project Cost: $150,000
Previously Approved City Funding for this project:
Source:
FY
Application Details
Applicant Name: 
Human Investment Project, Inc.
Address:
Phone:
800 S. Claremont Street #210
650-348-6660
City: San Mateo
Fax: 650-348-0284
Zip: 94402-1450
Type of Applicant: Non-Profit
Contact Person: 
Name: Kate Comfort Harr
Title: Executive Director
Phone:
650.348.6660 x307
Contact Email: kcomfort@hiphousing.org
Agency Director: Kate Comfort Harr
Name & Title of Person Authorized to Execute Legal Documents with County for this Project (Should match
attachment 16):
Name:
Kate Comfort Harr
Title: Executive Director
DUNS Number: 120811997
Federal EIN/TIN Number: 94-2154614
Client Inventory: In the table below, please indicate, in the second column, the total number of persons currently
served/who will be served by your Program. Of the number of persons served, indicate the number of families/
https://www.citydataservices.net/cities/smatca/happsmaarc.pl?rpt=A13601&prop=1433
1/7
7 of 39

--- page 8 ---
6/24/24, 4:33 PM
City Data Services - San Mateo
households represented in the third column. Enter 0 if there were no beneficiaries prior to this funding.
Clients Served
# of Persons
# of Households
639
# of Clients Currently Served by Facility (prior to this funding):
Additional Clients Proposed to be Served:
Total # of Clients Proposed to be Served:
768
505
479
1,118
1,273
Beneficiaries
# of Persons
# of Households
# of Extremely Low Income* Persons/Households to be served:
# of Very Low Income* Persons/Households to be served:
# of Low Income* Persons/Households to be served:
Total:
1,033
157
74
1,264
925
123
54
1,102
1. Project Summary: Provide a brief narrative summary of the project. Description must include (a) program
specific objectives; (b) target population; (c) geographic impact (d) Description of what the funds will be used for.
What is the exact scope of services for which you plan to use requested funds?
HIP Housing is a nonprofit organization that helps extremely-low and low-income San Mateo county residents to
find and maintain low-income, affordable housing. The agency is in contract to purchase its first corporate
headquarters since the agency’s inception in 1972. The property is located at 111-115 5th Avenue, San Mateo, CA
and we’re seeking funds to assist with tenant improvements that will create better accessibility for clients and staff.
HIP Housing has traditionally served our community with three programs – the Home Sharing Program, Self
Sufficiency Program for Families, and Property Development-Management. These programs work in tandem to: 1)
prevent displacement and homelessness, including by connecting people to housing resources; 2) maximize and
preserve existing housing stock; and 3) equip individuals with the support they need to overcome economic
inequities and stabilize their financial situation. We also field thousands of calls annually, providing affordable
housing information and referrals to callers and work hard to create a trauma-informed environment that fosters
safety and trust. To address the growing need of extremely vulnerable seniors, to avoid homelessness, we have
recently launched a new “Housing Readiness Program” (HRP) targeted just to them.
Because our programs work in tandem to address the housing challenges of our clients, we need a space that
facilitates cross departmental collaboration and problem solving in an environment that is safe and welcoming,
consistent with the Trauma Informed principals we’ve embraced to bolster good mental health for both staff and
clients.
Because we serve the entire County, and we get a lot of foot traffic, our building also needs to be in a central
County location, close to transit and services, with access to adequate street and other parking. Recognizing our
needs, HIP Housing has been seeking the perfect location for nearly 10 years. We have also been strategically
securing funds to assist with the acquisition of the right building.
The 111-115 E. 5th Avenue property is in the right building, in right location, at the right prices, with the right
amenities, the right floor plan, and the right seller. That said it will need tenant improvements, especially with regard
to ADA accessibility.
2. Project History. Please briefly describe the project's history leading to this request. Include such information as
when the site was acquired or will be acquired, if rehabilitating an existing structure include year that it was built,
any previous requests for City funding, changes in the project since those requests were made, attempts made to
secure other financing, how current project was estimated, and any other relevant information about the history of
the project.
HIP Housing began as a small social service agency, funded by a $10,000 grant from the Area Agency on Aging.
Our first office consisted of a desk, phone, and filing cabinet in the former Fidelity Savings building in downtown
San Mateo. From those humble beginnings, we have grown into a multifaceted organization tackling the housing
struggles of low-income San Mateo County residents using a wide variety of specialized strategies.
Recognizing the needs of our programs and the challenge of funding high operating expenses like rent, HIP
Housing has been contemplating the purchase of a permanent “Home of its Own” for over 10-years.
In its 2020-2025 Strategic plan, HIP Housing listed the purchase of an office building as a strategic priority and has
systematically sought support in the planning and assessment of the feasibility of buying and owning an office
building to serve as its permanent headquarters.
We applied for, and received, two grants from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation. The first grant was to hire
consultants to do a feasibility study on our fundraising capacity, and the second grant was to assist with the
implementation of a capital campaign to raise the funds for the acquisition of a building. Additionally, we received
pro-bono assistance from Brick Architecture to do an assessment of our office needs and site plan for a possible
new headquarters. (See attached.) We also have strategically grown the expertise of our Board in the areas of
Property Development, Property Management, Real Estate Law, and Architecture to help us be extremely smart
https://www.citydataservices.net/cities/smatca/happsmaarc.pl?rpt=A13601&prop=1433
2/7
8 of 39

--- page 9 ---
6/24/24, 4:33 PM
City Data Services - San Mateo
consumers. After looking at many sites over a 5-year period, we are thrilled to be in contract for 111-115 E. 5th
Avenue with the blessing of our Board.
3. Identification of Priorities: How did you determine the need for your Project? Identify the specific NOFA
Objectives from Section II of the Funding Guidelines that your program/project meets.
HIP Housing began by survey staff to see their input on what our current space lacks and what we should be
looking for in a permanent home. We identified that new office space would need to be in a central County location
due to the amount of client foot traffic we experience, close to transit and services, with access to adequate street
and other parking. We also recognize the need for ADA accessible space.
We then took our survey results to space planning specialists at Brick Architects to further the work. They
confirmed our “wish list” and delivered a report that incorporated this feedback into their assessment along with
other things we would need to consider to ensure our physical space allows us to continue to thrive both
programmatically and culturally. (See attached report.)
Our pro-bono Brick consultants confirmed that in addition to our above needs, we also need to:
· Find additional square footage to meet the current and future growth needs of
our staff.
· Prioritize daylight equity for all staff. Having better access to natural daylight
improves the overall work environment and mental health for staff and visitors.
· Prioritize staff's safety by providing sight lines throughout the floor plan, gaining
a sense of safety and security.
· Ensure that visitors have a welcoming, calm, and safe environment to meet
with staff, to address privacy and sensitivity concerns.
· Ensure meeting spaces are sized to accommodate both smaller groups and
larger gatherings.
· Ensure that hat the floor plan facilitates team members having space to collaborate within their department and
cross-functionally.
With the exception of the ADA bathroom and an operable elevator, 111-115 meets all of our programmatic and
corporate culture needs.
4. Organizational Mission: Describe your overall organizational mission.
HIP Housing’s mission is to invest in human potential by improving the housing and lives of people in our
community. Since 1972, HIP Housing has supported individuals and families in San Mateo County seeking to find
or remain in affordable housing. What started as a small social service agency has become a multifaceted
organization, providing brick-and-mortar housing and innovative direct service programming to low-income
individuals and families facing displacement and homelessness.
5. Project Details/Milestones: Do you have all necessary planning approvals? List all approvals required for your
project and indicate the status and actual or projected approval dates. You may refer to timeline (Attachment 7) for
details on project milestones.
Since this application is for specific repair work the timeline and milestones are the same. Please refer to
Attachment 9 “Project Timeline.”
6. Green Building. Specify how you intend to incorporate Green Building elements and features to your program.
N/A
7. Other. Specify any other project issues that you feel should be considered in review of this application for funds.
As part of our need to create ADA accessibility for all clients and staff at the 111-115 5th Avenue property, in
addition to doing the elevator repair, we will also need to update the existing downstairs bathroom to ADA
standards.
8. Federal Labor Standards Compliance: Projects requesting funds for actual hard costs of rehabilitation/new
construction must meet the following requirements:
Davis-Bacon requirements: The payment of prevailing wages to construction workers is required if:
CDBG funds are part of a construction contract of (1) $2,000+ for non-housing activities;
CDBG is used for rehabilitation of 8+ dwelling units in a project;
HOME funds are used to assist 12+ units (HOME-assisted units), regardless of the specific use of HOME funds
in the Project;
Project (rehab/new construction) will be under contract for 9+ project-based vouchers.
You will need to use good faith efforts to offer construction-generated new jobs to qualified low income City
residents and/or a portion of the contract (subcontract) to qualified low income subcontractors who are City
https://www.citydataservices.net/cities/smatca/happsmaarc.pl?rpt=A13601&prop=1433
3/7
9 of 39

--- page 10 ---
6/24/24, 4:33 PM
City Data Services - San Mateo
residents. The employment opportunities may be construction or non-construction-related. The federal goal is
offering 30% of NEW employment opportunities to Section 3 residents and 10% of construction contract to Section
3 businesses.
MBE/WBE: the Project Developer must use good faith best efforts to contract with qualified MBEs and WBEs.
Contracts of $10,000+, both construction and non-construction, that are offered to qualified minority/women
business enterprises, will be reported to HUD.
If you are using City funds under this NOFA for construction, please describe how you will meet the above federal
requirements related to Davis-Bacon, Section 3, and/or MBE/WBE, if applicable.
Elevator repair is a highly specialized field and only a few companies locally can provide such service. We will do
our best to meet the CDBG standards for new employment opportunities and minority/women owned businesses,
but we may be limited by the specialized nature of the project.
9. Relocation. If your project is expected to incur a relocation obligation, briefly explain the nature of the relocation:
e.g. who is to be relocated; whether permanent of temporary; estimated cost per household/business; timeline, etc.
(Include Relocation Plan as Attachment 10 if it is already completed or provide an estimated timeline when the Plan
will be submitted.)
Please refer to Attachment 10, “Relocation Plan”
4/7
10 of 39

--- page 11 ---
Attachment 1
HIP Housing Elevator Repair Project
111-115 E. 5th Avenue, San Mateo, CA
PROJECT MANAGEMENT TEAM
KATE COMFORT HARR
HIP Housing, Executive Director
Kate holds Bachelor's degrees in Sociology and Communication Studies from UCSB and a Master’s in
Nonprofit Administration from USF. She has been the Executive Director of HIP Housing since 2011.
In her tenure with HIP Housing, Kate has been very involved in property development, program
expansion and is a frequent speaker on a wide range of affordable housing topics. Kate specializes in
the preservation of existing housing stock and the rehabilitation of older properties and was
awarded the 2020 Business Woman of the Year award by Chamber San Mateo County.
GHION DESSIE
HIP Housing, Vice President of Finance
MIGUEL PEREZ
HHAV, Property Maintenance Supervisor
Miguel is a skilled maintenance technician with 18 years of experience in the field. He has a General
Contractor’s B License and is certified in air conditioning service, and water heater and heat pump
installation. He also holds EPA universal and OSHA 24hrs certifications. Miguel supervises the
property maintenance team for the HHAV property management division of HIP Housing. Prior to
joining HIP Housing, Miguel worked for the Oakland Housing Authority as a maintenance supervisor
and Contra Costa Housing Choice Voucher Office as a maintenance technician.
11 of 39

--- page 12 ---
Attachement 2
HIP Housing Elevator Repair Budget
111-115 E. 5th Avenue
Estiamted cost $125,000 - $150,000
Sources
San Mateo City Community Facilites Funds
HIP Housing Set Aside Funds
Total
$100,000
$50,000
$150,000
Uses
Elevator Repair
Total
$150,000
$150,000
Balance
$0
12 of 39

--- page 13 ---
CQCC #CC-08-012863
CA LIC #901286

Vintage Elevator Services, Inc. " Seccort Gh SeEE

650.832.1345
IN TA 415.525.3850
650.832.1344 (F)

The Trafton Group
Bruce Bean
1650 S. Amphlett Suite 233, San Mateo, CA, 94402

8/25/2023

Re: PR#12990 Replacement Cylinder and Power Unit Elevator State # 034106
Property Address: 111-115 E. 5° Avenue, San Mateo, CA, 94401

Dear Bruce,

This proposal covers work to replace failed cylinder assembly, power unit, and soft starter and
is made between The Trafton Group, Agent (“Owner”) and Vintage Elevator Services, Inc.
(“Company”).

General Scope and Description of Repairs

Vintage Elevator will install a new in-ground hydraulic cylinder, power unit, piping, overspeed
valve, electronic soft starter, fresh hydraulic fluid, and code required upgrades. We will release
the elevator once all testing has been completed and the State Elevator Unit accepts alteration.

e Remove the elevator from service.

e Remove existing failed borehole elevator assemblies.

e Prep site conditions for redrilling of hydraulic cylinder well hole

e McRae Drilling will redrill existing well hole for new cylinder assembly.

e Install new PVC liner protection assembly.

e Install new ITI Hydraulik cylinder assembly.

e Install new hydraulic power unit.

e Install new soft starter for protection of new major assemblies installed.
e Install new #32 hydraulic fluid with for new assemblies.

e Install new pit equipment (buffer springs and supports)

e Full test for inspection and permit

e Inspect with State Elevator Unit

e Return elevator to service once state issuance of operational permit is given.

7 Commodore Drive, Emeryville, California, 94608 PR# 12990 Replacement Cylinder and Power Unit 1

Elevator State # 034106
13 of 39


--- page 14 ---
Pricing
Base Price: $142,257.00 (One hundred forty-two thousand two hundred and fifty-seven dollars)

Quote Based on the Following Qualifications, Exceptions and Allowances

1. Our price includes labor, material, tools, equipment, inspection fee, freight, sales tax,
overhead and profit.

2. An allowance of 30 days from the date of this proposal for quotes of materials. Additional
increases may result after that as price increases may occur.

3. All work is performed during regular working hours of regular working days. If overtime
is requested, Purchaser agrees to pay additional price in accordance with Vintage
Elevator Services normal billing rates for such work requested.

4. Property shall be responsible for providing parking, functioning facilities and secure
onsite storage for materials and equipment. If additional site requirements are needed
the Customer will be responsible for the incurred cost plus a 20% fee added.

5. If more work is found to be needed or unforeseen problems that arise outside of this
proposal as stated, we will stop all work and discuss options with ownership.

6. Time may be needed to complete field measurements and engineering if needed.

7. Material will be delivered to a secure location at the jobsite once received from the
supplier. Any delays with equipment being delivered may result in additional storage
charges.

8. A mutually agreed schedule will be discussed once the material schedule is known.

9. Our proposal covers work as described. Any other work will be billed at Vintage Elevator
Services’ normal billing rates.

Terms and Conditions

Price includes labor and material as stated above.

All work to be done during normal hours as stated above.

Work to be scheduled by mutual agreement.

This proposal is good for 30 days from the date of the proposal.

Invoiced payments are to be received prior to inspection. State Permit/Acceptance
documents will be held till receipt of final payment.

Payment Schedule

e 25% Due on Acceptance of Proposal
e 25% Due Prior to Placing Equipment Order
e 20% Due on Mobilization

e 25% Due on Substantial Completion

e 5% Due on Inspection

7 Commodore Drive, Emeryville, California, 94608 PR# 12990 Replacement Cylinder and Power Unit 2
Elevator State # 034106

14 of 39


--- page 15 ---
Late Fee(s)

A late charge, calculated at 10% of the overdue amount, shall be paid for any payment over
twenty (20) days past due.

Miscellaneous Terms and Conditions

A.

In consideration of Company performing the services herein specified, Owner expressly
agrees to indemnify, defend, save harmless, discharge, release and forever acquit
Company, its officers, agents and employees from and against any and all claims,
demands, suits, and proceedings brought against Company or its employees, including
but not limited to loss, damage, injury or death that are alleged to have arisen from the
negligence of others in connection with the presence, use, misuse, maintenance,
installation, removal, manufacture, design, operation or condition of the equipment
covered by this agreement, or the associated areas surrounding such equipment. The
owner’s duty to indemnify does not apply to claims or losses determined to be caused by
or resulting from the negligence of the Company or its employees. Indemnity shall
include payment of all attorney's fees, court costs, judgments, settlements, interest, and
any other expenses of litigation arising out of such claims or lawsuits. The duty to defend
created by this provision is separate from the duty to indemnify. Once triggered, the duty
to defend is not extinguished until the end of the claim, demand, suit or proceeding giving
rise to the duty to defend.

Company shall not be liable for any loss, damage or delay caused by acts of government,
labor, troubles, strikes, lockouts, fire, explosions, theft riot, civil commotion, war,
malicious mischief, acts of God, or any cause beyond its control, and in no event shall
Company be liable for any damages, nor any consequential, special, or indirect
damages. The company shall automatically receive an extension of time commensurate
with any delay regarding the aforementioned.

In the event testing is conducted Company assumes no responsibility for damages
resulting from testing. Should the respective systems fail any of the required tests, it
shall be the Owner’s sole responsibility to make necessary repairs and to place the
equipment in a condition that will be acceptable for safe operation.

Any equipment, parts, machinery, or other apparatus furnished by the Company under
this agreement shall remain the titled property of the Company until final payment is
made by the Customer. Should the Customer default on the final payment the Company
shall be given access and have the right to remove (without legal process) said property
irrespective of the manner of attachment to the real estate or the sale, mortgage, or
lease of the real estate. Any costs including reasonable attorney fees and expense
associated with such repossession shall be paid by the Customer.

Should loss of or damage to the Company’s material, tools or work occur at the location
that is the subject of this work, Customer shall compensate the Company therefore,
unless such loss or damage results solely from the Company’s own acts or omissions.
Except as provided by any Addendum this Agreement comprises the final agreement and
understandings between the parties and supersedes all other prior representations or

agreements, whether written or verbal and constitutes the entire agreement between the

7 Commodore Drive, Emeryville, California, 94608 PR# 12990 Replacement Cylinder and Power Unit 3
Elevator State # 034106

15 of 39


--- page 16 ---
parties. By executing this agreement, the respective signatories represent and warrant
that they have the authority to bind the respective parties. This agreement shall be
governed and construed by the laws of the State of California.

G. If either party seeks to enforce its rights under this Agreement either in a court of law or
by Alternate Dispute Resolution, the prevailing party will be entitled to costs and
reasonable attorney’s fees.

H. This proposal is good for 30 days from the date above unless stated otherwise. If you
should have any questions or concerns, please do not hesitate to contact us.

Addendum: K.M McRae Drilled Shaft Quote Dated 8/23/2023 as conditioned is attached and part
of this proposal

2023 Rates for Additional Service

Mechanic Regular Hour: $410.00 an hour
Adjuster/ Troubleshooter: $451.00 an hour
Repair Crew: $738.00 an hour (OT is double-time)
OT CB Monday- Saturday: Mechanic X 1.7

OT CB Sunday and Holidays: Mechanic X 2.0

OT Repairs: Mechanic X 2.0

Should you accept this proposal, please indicate your authorization by your signature below.
Please return one (1) copy to our office by mail, fax, or email (pdf).

This Agreement is not valid unless accepted by an authorized Owner of Vintage Elevator
Services, Inc.

Vintage Elevator Services, Inc

Accepted for Purchaser Submitted for Vintage Elevator Services, Inc.
By: By: Greg Cardenas

Name: Date: 8/25/2023

Title:

Date:

Accepted for Vintage Elevator Services, Inc.

Title: Vice President

Date: 8/25/2023

7 Commodore Drive, Emeryville, California, 94608 PR# 12990 Replacement Cylinder and Power Unit 4
Elevator State # 034106

16 of 39


--- page 17 ---
License #: 424355 K.M. McRae, Inc. Phone: 510/537-6539

Calif. Certified S.B.E. PO Box 188 Fax: 510/537-2946
Safe? E.M.R.=.81 Mt. Eden, CA 94557-0188 69 Years Experience
Fully Insured

admin@kmmeraeinc.com
www.kmmceraeinc.com

DRILLED SHAFT QUOTATION Date: 8/23/2023 Page 1
CLIENT: Vintage Elev. Co. SALES PERSON: _Greg PHONE: _ (650) 826-7514
PROJECT: — 111 East 5th Ave. LOCATION:

CITY: San Mateo County: San Mateo

DESCRIPTION: 1 - 18 ' from pit floor. Cleanout , provide 6 drums to place generated material . Cost for recycling & removal is
optional , & included as an alternate , # of drums adjusted , upon completion , will be charged .
EXISTING

#MOVES: 1 #HOLES: 1 CYLINDER: _1500# COUPLING: BLDG: Yes

BSMT/CUT/FILL: None TERMS: Allowance 24 Hr.’s Hole & Rock Clause Obstruction Clause
Portal to portal .

ACCESS: Rail Mounted Machine / Power Unit - Connected to hot disconnect in machine room . We will supply step up
transformer , or add Generator rental , add $395.00/Day . Includes generator 3 days . In adequate power .

BLOCKOUT SIZE: _24"x 24" GENERATOR RENTAL: _3Days ADD FOR GEN. RENTAL: $395.00/da:

SPECIFICATIONS: None :

REMARKS: Others to hang car as high as possible ( 20' min. from pit floor up to bottom of car ) ,leave your rigging
under car for our use ,remove existing equipment, C.C.C.M. to assist as needed, provide 3 phase power &
equip. parking. Based on existing hole or casing being of adequate size, plumb, on center, and in good
condition.

Car or platform to be secured as high as possible , above last stop. Car to be safely secured, using two
different methods, so it will not move or fall under any conditions. Check rails & brackets to confirm safe or
add brackets or reinforcement as needed .

PVC CASING: 15” 18” Other

STEEL CASING: Add $138.00\Ln, Ft. plus any additional time @ $495.00\hour , if needed & beyond our allowance .

DIAMETER: _18"-22" WALL: _.250 wall RING: _No BOTTOM: None

SPOILS REMOVAL: Weare including 6 - 55 gal. drums to place generated materials into. The add or deduct will be $95.00/drum .
For soil recycling add or deduct $350.00\drum . Excludes hazardous material or any unknown foreign
substance’s , typically liquids , but not limited too . Others to remove & dispose of any liquids .

SOILS ENGINEER: _ None at this time. CONTACT:

PROJECT #: REPORT DATE:

NOTES: Small garage for parking generator ? Might be parking in lot next door? _No site survey yet . Car down.

NOTES: en

Date:

Accepted by: For:

17 of 39


--- page 18 ---
License #: 424355 K.M. McRae, Inc. Phone: 510/537-6539

Calif. Certified S.B.E. PO Box 188 Fax: 510/537-2946
Safe? E.M.R.=.81 Mt. Eden, CA 94557-0188 69 Years Experience
Fully Insured

admin@kmmcraeinc.com

www.kmmcraeinc.com

PRICE AS CONDITIONED ABOVE: $13,950.00 , as conditioned. Add: Alter: #1 Remove & recycle soil 6 drums =
$ 2,100.00 . Includes 24 hours portal to portal , with approx., 20 hr.’s ion site , 6 drums ,
& generator 3 days .

Any additional time, delays , changes , material, equipment or labor are extra. Billed for actual amount of drums only , upon

completion . Payment in full within 45 days of invoice , no retention held .

Any protection , adequate 3 phase power , permits , equip. parking , storage , water service & or barricades by others.
Not included in this quotation: Additional moves, engineering, permits, testing, layout, changes, access, any shoring, dewatering, special containment
facilities, protection of existing surfaces, contractor’s pollution liability insurance, ramping, demolition, spoils removal, barricades, traffic control,
parking and water to be supplied by others. All prices are based on our terms and conditions shown here and Addendum I, Page 2.

-- Quote good for 45 days -

Accepted by: For: Date:

18 of 39


--- page 19 ---
License #: 424355 K.M. McRae, Inc. Phone: 510/537-6539

Calif. Certified S.B.E. PO Box 188 Fax: 510/537-2946
Safe? E.M.R.=.81 Mt. Eden, CA 94557-0188 69 Years Experience
Fully Insured

admin@kmmcraeinc.com
www.kmmcraeinc.com

ADDENDUM I, Page 2
DRILLING AS DIRECTED

K.M. McRae, Inc. scope of work is limited to industry standard drilling and casing only per our terms and conditions,
unless otherwise specifically addressed, in separate writing. As a subcontractor we rely solely on you to provide us with
plans, specifications, critical information on bonds, permit fees, inspections, engineering, locations, elevations, or any
state or local special requirements prior to our quotation. All quotations are based on our current insurance policies,
Any additional, or special , insurance will be by others or in addition , plus mark up .

Any extra work, delays, changes in work, additional material or labor, will be in addition to our quotation at our normal
billing rate, plus our usual mark up 15% .

STANDARD TRUCK ACCESS:

Clear, unobstructed, ingress and egress for our trucks and/or equipment at each location with no restrictions. This means
driving in and out of their own power, not being pushed, pulled, or providing material to drive on, etc. Each location must
provide adequate room for support material and equipment to perform our work.

LIMITED ACCESS:

Less room than clear, unobstructed truck access, Usually within an existing structure, or area inaccessible to truck
mounted equipment. However, proper room to enter, access our work area, and operate freely must be provided. Please
review what is not included in this quotation, and note any specific instructions on a job by job basis.

HOLE CLAUSE:
Drilling in clean soil only, that will stand open naturally, free of rock, water, gravel, sand, cobbles, boulders, underground

caves, debris, obstructions or any other unusual condition, object or material.

ROCK CLAUSE:

Drilling in clean soil, free of rock, cobbles or boulders.

OBSTRUCTION CLAUSE:

Drilling in clean soil, free of debris, rubble, building construction members, foreign objects, or any other unnatural
deflection.

BASED ON SOILS REPORT:

No additional charges unless there is a change, different than is clearly shown in the information provided within the soils
report.

FIRM PRICE:

No additional cost for drilling or casing as quoted.

Our access requirements are applicable to all types of quotations. Any additional time, materials, labor or equipment
needed will be an addition to our quotation at our normal billing rates, plus our usual markup.

Accepted by: For: Date:

19 of 39


--- page 20 ---
License #: 424355 K.M. McRae, Inc. Phone: 510/537-6539

Calif. Certified S.B.E. PO Box 188 Fax: 510/537-2946
Safe? E.M.R.=.81 Mt. Eden, CA 94557-0188 69 Years Experience
Fully Insured
admin@kmmcraeinc.com
www.kmmceraeinc.com
ADDENDUM IL. "Save Our Landfills" “Soil Recycling”
Page 3

SOIL RECYCLING PROGRAM: OPTIONAL (Please see cost add on our quotation) “Excludes Hazardous Materials”

Our proposal includes placing soil into 55 gallon sealed drums, labeling, manifesting, shipping, recycling and
remediation, by way of "Thermal Treatment”.

Remedial recycling is only possible with soil containing certain petroleum products. There are also limits with their
products as to what can be recycled and what will have to be stored. Our quotation is based on soil contaminated solely
with petroleum hydrocarbons, which are within the acceptable limits for recycling. Based on non- hazardous material,
such as soil impacted with hydraulic oil. Excludes hazardous materials , such as P.C.B, 's , or pure product , (oil) , or oily
water , can be removed , after it is sampled , tested , & profiled , to see if it is hazardous or non hazardous , which will
greatly impact cost , type & location for legal disposal , plus any additional costs , charges , or fee's , are in addition , &
material to remain on site until analyses is completed .

Any soil, that after testing is over the limits and needs remedial work, will be handled as extra work in addition to this
quotation. Should the client reject any additional work to comply with specified acceptable limits, the client accepts
responsibility in full to properly dispose of material as the law requires and excludes K.M. McRae, Inc., & Vintage
Elevator Services, from the chain of disposal.

For Your Information Only
Landfill Liability vs. Recycling of Material

This is intended to clarify the differences in liability between having hydraulic oil impacted water and soil shipped to a
landfill vs. treatment by thermal desorption and recycling of the soil. Please note the term generator refers to your client or

the property owner.

A landfill, regardless of the company or classification (Class I, II, or III), simply manages the generator’s waste by in-
ground disposal. In order to accept the material a manifest is used to identify the generator or responsible party of the
waste and the landfill rents space for the life of the landfill. If there are any environmental issues that are either present or
develop in the future at that landfill, they have the legal process in place to have the generators pay for a portion of the
remediation or cleanup of the landfill. At present, there are many landfills in California that are on the Federal Superfund
cleanup program. These landfills are requiring that everyone who disposed of waste in their landfills participate in the
expense of the cleanups. The liabilities can be considerable in such a situation for each generator that has waste stored in
an in-ground facility that experiences cleanup requirements mandated by the government.

Recycling the soil through thermal desorption eliminates the contamination by chemically breaking down the
contaminants and evacuating them from the material. This is achieved by heating the impacted soil until no contaminants
exist and the contaminants are physically destroyed. The clean soils is then tested and re-used for various construction
purposes. Once the contaminants are removed, the generator is indemnified of any future liability. A Certificate of
Recycling is issued stating the generator’s soil has been recycled in compliance with all local, state and federal regulations
regarding recycling and re-use of the material.

Rendering the material fit for re-use not only prevents the material from filling up our landfills, which are ever more
limited in space, but it protects the generators from environmental liability and exposure for many years in the future.

Date:

Accepted by: For:
20 of 39


--- page 21 ---
Attachment 5
HIP Housing Elevator Repair Project
111-115 E. 5th Avenue, San Mateo, CA
OTHER FUNDS AND LOCAL MATCHES
With grant funds provided by the David and Lucille Packard Foundation, HIP Housing has
contracted with Barkley Briscoe to assist with the implementation of a capital campaign to raise
$1,600,000. These funds will be used to assist with the acquisition and tenant improvements
associated with the purchase of 111-115 E. 5th Avenue, San Mateo.
These funds will be raised from a variety of sources including, but not limited to, Charitable
Foundations, Individual Donors, and local CDBG Community Facilities funding.
The capital campaign will take place over the course of a 10-month period beginning February,
2024. HIP Housing completed a capital campaign feasibility study in August of 2022 that
confirmed that $1,600,000 is an achievable fundraising target for an acquisition.
Foundations that have expressed interest in the project include The David and Lucille Packard
Foundations, The Sobrato Foundation, and the Grove Foundation. The feasibility study also
identified individual and family donors that can help us to reach out goal.
Key to achieving our goal is local CDBG support to help with tenant improvements once the
building is acquired. The most critical are those related to ADA accessibility for clients and staff
and include elevator repair to allow easy access between the building’s first and second floors,
adapting the first-floor bathroom to meet ADA standards, and the possible resurfacing of
exterior doorway thresholds. CBBG community facilities funds are a critical part of our
improvement plan for accessibility.
The $100,000 being requested in this funding application are for the elevator repair with an
anticipated final cost of $150,000. We have already received $50,000 in matched funds for the
project.
21 of 39

--- page 22 ---
Attachment 7 | 111-115 E. 5'* Avenue, San Mateo | Project Photos

Building exterior seen from 5‘" Avenue, across from Central Park

Parcel Plan for 168 East 4 and 111-115 East S®
APN: OM417318

OMT Le

Ose 1Ts 1

HLYOMST7Z— ® «J

FOURTH
FIFTH

Elevator as seen from 2" story Additional view of elevator juxtaposed
to upstairs stairwell

22 of 39


--- page 23 ---
Attachement 9
HIP Housing Elevator Repair Timeline
111-115 E. 5th Avenue
Timeline
Vendor
Notes
Phase 1 Study Completed
Estimated 1/23/24
Partner ESI Fieldwork: Completed 1/12/24
ALTA Survey Completed
Property Contingency Removal
Estimated 1/23/24
2/20/2024
Partner ESI Fieldwork: Completed 1/12/24
Cooperative seller providing extra tie
Escrow Close
Apply and receive permits if necessary
5/15/2024 First American Title for HIP Housing fundraising efforts.
5/15/24-7/31/24 
City of San Mateo
Working with HGA Architect (Board
Member) for TI plans and discussing
Tenant Improvement Construction Start
Tenent Improvmetns Complete
HIP Housing Office Move
8/1/2024
12/31/2024
2/25/2024
HGA Architects bidswith 3 contractors
23 of 39

--- page 24 ---
Attachment 10
HIP Housing Elevator Repair Project
111-115 E. 5th Avenue, San Mateo, CA
RELOCATION PLAN
The property HIP Housing is seeking to acquire, and where the elevator in need of repair is
located is vacant so there is no need for a relocation plan.
24 of 39

--- page 25 ---
City of San Mateo Public Facilities
Application for Funds
FY 2022-23
 
Application Summary
Project Title:
 CORA Facilities Project
Project Address:
 Suppressed
City:  Suppressed
Zip:  94403-1833
Project APN:
 039-071-280
Provide a one sentence project summary:
To ensure the safety and comfort of community members and clients coming to its community office, CORA needs
to repair the breezeway leading from the parking lot to the main office entry and repair and provide maintenance
for HVAC units.
 
A. Funding request for this Public Facility Project is for: (check as many as applicable):
 Property Acquisition
 Rehabilitation/Physical Improvements
 Removal of architectural barriers
 New Construction
 Predevelopment Costs
 Relocation (of residential or commercial occupants)
 
B. CDBG National Objective Determination
Beneficiaries of the facility must be at least 51% low income persons.
Which of the following benefit criterion best matches your request for funds?
 
Presumed Benefit Critieria: Facility exclusively serves one or more of the presumed benefit groups. While client income
documentation is not required, documentation of their status is required. (Check as many as applicable):
 
 Abused children
 Homeless persons
 
 Victims of domestic violence
 Illiterate adults
 
 Elderly persons/seniors (age 62+)
 Persons living with AIDS
 
 Severely disabled adults
 
 Migrant farm workers
 
 
C. Income/Presumed Benefit Verification: Describe how you obtain, verify, and maintain proof of income and
presumed benefit status. Third party documentation or client signatures on the certification forms must be available
on file for review at all times.
 All of our clients are presumed eligible, based on their status as 'battered spouses' -- see 24 CFR 570.483(b)(2)(ii)
(A): https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/24/570.483.
 
 
Project Details
Total Amount Requested under this NOFA:    $49,077 Total Project Cost:  $49,077
Previously Approved City Funding for this project:
Source
Amount
FY
 City of SM CDBG Public Facilities
 $49,077
 2024-25
 
Application Details
Applicant Name:
 Community Overcoming Relationship Abuse (CORA)
Address:
 2211 Palm Avenue
City:  San Mateo
Zip:  94403-1833
Phone:
 650-652-0800
Fax:  650-652-0808
Type of Applicant: Non-Profit
Contact Person:
Name: Cindy Kilpatrick
Title: Grants and Contract Manager
Phone:
650-445-2391
Contact Email: cindyk@corasupport.org
Agency Director:
Karen Ferguson
Name & Title of Person Authorized to Execute Legal Documents with County for this Project (Should match
attachment 16):
6/24/24, 4:19 PM
City Data Services - San Mateo
https://www.citydataservices.net/cities/smatca/happsmaarc.pl?rpt=A14478&prop=1558
1/6
25 of 39

--- page 26 ---
Name:
Karen Ferguson
Title: Chief Executive Officer
DUNS Number:   015862386
Federal EIN/TIN Number:   94-2481188
Client Inventory: In the table below, please indicate, in the second column, the total number of persons currently
served/who will be served by your Program. Of the number of persons served, indicate the number of families/
households represented in the third column. Enter 0 if there were no beneficiaries prior to this funding.
Clients Served
# of Persons
# of Households
# of Clients Currently Served by Facility (prior to this funding):
4,978
Additional Clients Proposed to be Served:
0
Total # of Clients Proposed to be Served:
4,978
0
Beneficiaries
# of Persons
# of Households
# of Extremely Low Income* Persons/Households to be served:
1,493
# of Very Low Income* Persons/Households to be served:
548
# of Low Income* Persons/Households to be served:
647
Total:
2,688
0
 
1. Project Summary: Provide a brief narrative summary of the project. Description must include (a) program
specific objectives; (b) target population; (c) geographic impact (d) Description of what the funds will be used for.
What is the exact scope of services for which you plan to use requested funds?
(a) program specific objectives
• Repair the breezeway between the parking lot and the front door of our main facility.
• Repair and secure maintenance for the HVAC systems at our main facility to ensure a comfortable and safe
environment for clients and staff.
(b) target population
• Individuals and families affected by domestic violence, primarily women and children.
• Staff members who support clients through counseling, legal assistance, and other services.
(c) geographic impact
San Mateo County
(d) Description of what the funds will be used for. What is the exact scope of services for which you plan to use
requested funds?
• Breezeway Repair: Repair and renovate the breezeway to provide a sheltered pathway for clients, protecting
them from weather exposure as they walk from the parking lot to the front door and ensuring structural integrity.
• HVAC Repair/maintenance: Repair or maintenance for HVAC systems to ensure proper heating, ventilation, and
air conditioning throughout the facility, enhancing the comfort and safety of the environment for clients and staff.
 
2. Project History. Please briefly describe the project's history leading to this request. Include such information as
when the site was acquired or will be acquired, if rehabilitating an existing structure include year that it was built,
any previous requests for City funding, changes in the project since those requests were made, attempts made to
secure other financing, how current project was estimated, and any other relevant information about the history of
the project.
 The primary place where victims of domestic violence receive services is at CORA’s community office in San
Mateo, just over half a mile away from City of San Mateo’s City Hall. CORA’s move to its site at 2211 and 2205
Palm Avenue was completed in March 2013. Significant renovations were made to the building so staff could work
in a professional space and clients could be served in a clean, welcoming environment. Located near the
crossroads of Highway 92 and El Camino, one block east of El Camino, the building is centralized and accessible
for clients traveling to the agency by public and private transportation. Clients to the main office are either walk-in
(crisis) requests for services or those who have scheduled services including support groups, individual therapy,
legal advice, child watch, and case management. Previous facilities funding for this site includes City of San Mateo
CDBG support in 2015-2016 for the site’s HVAC.
 
3. Identification of Priorities: How did you determine the need for your Project? Identify the specific NOFA
Objectives from Section II of the Funding Guidelines that your program/project meets.
 HVAC UNITS: When CORA first moved into these buildings in 2013, the agency replaced the HVAC units that
were in the poorest condition and received support from the City of San Mateo CDBG to replace two additional
units. Since that time – over a decade later – the remaining HVAC units have started to show their age. As a result,
the temperature in CORA’s facility is inconsistent, with some areas being very cold while others are too warm. This
inconsistency in temperatures is not good for clients, staff, or volunteers.
Repairing and maintaining the aging HVAC units will enable the agency to better regulate the temperature
throughout the building, resulting in more consistent and comfortable conditions. This will likely lead to energy cost
savings as rooms that are currently over/under-heated will now be regulated more evenly. Improved temperature
6/24/24, 4:19 PM
City Data Services - San Mateo
https://www.citydataservices.net/cities/smatca/happsmaarc.pl?rpt=A14478&prop=1558
2/6
26 of 39

--- page 27 ---
consistency will also enhance airflow, promoting a healthier breathing environment and potentially reducing
respiratory or airborne illnesses among those using the facility. Additionally, regular maintenance of the HVAC
systems will extend their lifespan, ensuring a more sustainable use of resources and reducing the need for frequent
replacements, thereby supporting better conservation of natural resources.
Furthermore, replacing the current thermostats with Wi-Fi enabled ones will provide several additional benefits. Wi-
Fi thermostats allow for remote monitoring and adjustments, ensuring optimal temperature settings at all times.
They can also learn usage patterns and adjust the heating and cooling schedules automatically, leading to further
energy savings. These smart thermostats can provide detailed energy usage reports, helping the facility manage
energy consumption more efficiently and identify additional opportunities for savings. This upgrade will contribute to
a more comfortable environment while promoting energy efficiency and sustainability.
When CORA moved into its buildings in 2013, the primary focus was on renovating the interiors to support services
for domestic violence survivors and attending to the existing failing HVACs, leaving exterior areas like the
breezeway largely unattended. Over the past decade, the breezeway connecting the parking lot to the front
entrance has deteriorated, exposing clients, staff, and volunteers to harsh weather during rainy seasons. This
exposure is particularly challenging for vulnerable clients. Repairing and renovating the breezeway will provide a
sheltered, secure, and accessible pathway, enhancing client comfort and safety by protecting them from adverse
weather, which is essential for their initial sense of security. It will also improve accessibility for individuals with
mobility issues or disabilities.
 
4. Organizational Mission: Describe your overall organizational mission.
 CORA provides safety, support and healing for individuals who experience abuse in an intimate relationship, and
educates the community to break the cycle of domestic violence.
 
5. Project Details/Milestones: Do you have all necessary planning approvals? List all approvals required for your
project and indicate the status and actual or projected approval dates. You may refer to timeline (Attachment 7) for
details on project milestones.
 N/A
 
6. Green Building. Specify how you intend to incorporate Green Building elements and features to your program.
To the greatest extent possible, the repaired breezeway will include sustainable materials and weatherproofing to
enhance energy efficiency. Combined with the repaired/maintained HVAC units and new Wi-Fi thermostats, these
improvements will reduce the overall energy consumption of the facility, promoting better conservation of natural
resources as well as enhancing client access and comfort.
 
7. Other. Specify any other project issues that you feel should be considered in review of this application for funds.
Thank you for your support!
 
8. Federal Labor Standards Compliance: Projects requesting funds for actual hard costs of rehabilitation/new
construction must meet the following requirements:
Davis-Bacon requirements: The payment of prevailing wages to construction workers is required if:
CDBG funds are part of a construction contract of (1) $2,000+ for non-housing activities;
CDBG is used for rehabilitation of 8+ dwelling units in a project;
HOME funds are used to assist 12+ units (HOME-assisted units), regardless of the specific use of HOME funds
in the Project;
Project (rehab/new construction) will be under contract for 9+ project-based vouchers.
 
You will need to use good faith efforts to offer construction-generated new jobs to qualified low income City
residents and/or a portion of the contract (subcontract) to qualified low income subcontractors who are City
residents. The employment opportunities may be construction or non-construction-related. The federal goal is
offering 30% of NEW employment opportunities to Section 3 residents and 10% of construction contract to Section
3 businesses.
 
MBE/WBE: the Project Developer must use good faith best efforts to contract with qualified MBEs and WBEs.
Contracts of $10,000+, both construction and non-construction, that are offered to qualified minority/women
business enterprises, will be reported to HUD.
 
If you are using City funds under this NOFA for construction, please describe how you will meet the above federal
requirements related to Davis-Bacon, Section 3, and/or MBE/WBE, if applicable.
We have solicited bids that include prevailing wages.
 
6/24/24, 4:19 PM
City Data Services - San Mateo
https://www.citydataservices.net/cities/smatca/happsmaarc.pl?rpt=A14478&prop=1558
3/6
27 of 39

--- page 28 ---
9. Relocation. If your project is expected to incur a relocation obligation, briefly explain the nature of the relocation:
e.g. who is to be relocated; whether permanent of temporary; estimated cost per household/business; timeline, etc.
(Include Relocation Plan as Attachment 10 if it is already completed or provide an estimated timeline when the Plan
will be submitted.)
No one will need to relocate as a result of these projects.
6/24/24, 4:19 PM
City Data Services - San Mateo
https://www.citydataservices.net/cities/smatca/happsmaarc.pl?rpt=A14478&prop=1558
4/6
28 of 39

--- page 29 ---
ATTACHMENT 1 - PROJECT TEAM 
Specify the names, experience, responsibilities and roles of each team member. Indicate whether they 
are full-time or part-time employees. 
Name 
Experience 
Responsibilities/Role 
F/T or 
P/T? 
Jim Granucci 
Retired Chief of Police 
Manage the remodel of 
Police facility in San Carlos, 
and CORA Offices in San 
Mateo 
Facilities at CORA: 
Oversee major building projects at 
all of our facilities, to include 
obtaining quotes, contracting with 
vendors, and monitoring 
construction.  
P/T 
Wesley 
Wagner 
Facilities professional 
Facility Maintenance/Upkeep:  
Conduct daily inspections of facility. 
Identify any potential health, safety 
or maintenance issues. Document 
and communicate those issues to 
staff. Working with leadership team, 
contact vendors to arrange for 
repairs, estimates, etc. 
Maintenance:  Identify and 
troubleshoot maintenance issues.  
Make minor repairs and perform 
basic maintenance. 
P/T 
29 of 39

--- page 30 ---
ATTACHMENT 2 - SOURCES & USES BUDGET/NARRATIVE  
The total cost of your project, including construction costs, must be shown. Please indicate all anticipated 
sources and uses of funding in addition to City funds. Please indicate all anticipated funding sources 
separately. Provide a narrative explanation of each line item. 
 
The total cost of our project is $49,077 for the breezeway repair and HVAC repair and 
maintenance. This includes the breezeway costs as indicated in Attachment 3 and $7,000 for the 
HVAC repairs and maintenance as noted below: 
 
Table 1 
10 Thermostats 
3000 
1 Maintenance for all HVACs 
3000 
10 Filters 
1000 
 
30 of 39

--- page 31 ---
CORA Fix Breezeway Overhead  Structure
Date:
3/27/24
Pricing Prepared by:
Ravi reddy
Prepared for:
 Tony Myles 
Duration
2 weeks
Estimate:
Bid Proposal
 
 
Unit Cost
Amt.
Unit
Lab.
Total Labor
Mat.
Equip.
Other:
Subs / 
Allow
Total
Supervision 10%
2
wks
540
1080
1,080
$                               
Preconstruction
3
hr
150
450
450
$                                  
Project Executive
0
wks
390
0
-
$                                       
Project Manager 20%
2
wks
540
1080
1,080
$                               
Accounting Support 10%
2
wks
380
760
760
$                                  
 
3370
0
0
0
3,370
$                           
Abatement & Hazardous Material
1
NIC
0
0
0
0
0
0
Not Included
Disposal of Equipment
1
NIC
0
0
0
0
0
0
-
$                                       
Clean Up/Final Clean Up/Temporary protection 
2
weeks
200
400
200
0
0
0
600
$                                  
Safety & COVID
2
weeks
0
0
0
0
0
0
-
$                                       
Site Requirements (Toilets, Signage, Water)
2
week
150
300
0
0
0
0
300
$                                  
Technology (Phone, Computer, iPads)
2
weeks
50
100
0
0
0
0
100
$                                  
Trucks & Fuel
2
weeks
150
300
0
0
0
0
400
$                                  
Trailer, Temp Power, Temp Lighting
0
NIC
0
0
0
0
0
0
-
$                                       
Debri Box
1
ls
0
0
0
0
0
0
-
$                                       
1100
200
0
0
0
1,400
$                               
Demo
1
ls
3500
3500
0
0
0
3,500
$                               
Demo existing stucco & framing 
Framing
1
ls
10400
10400
2500
2000
0
0
14,900
$                             
Frame the structure and put the sheetrock on and scaffolding
Stucco
1
ls
8850
8850
0
0
0
0
8,850
$                               
Sprinkler 
1
ls
5592
5592
0
0
0
0
5,592
$                               
Safe-off and replace sprinkler 
28342
2500
2000
0
0
32,842
$                             
32812
2700
2000
0
-
$        
37,612
$                             
Overhead and Profit
5.00%
1,881
$                               
Project Contingency/Field Allowance (GC Controlled)
5.00%
1,881
$                               
Design Contingency
0.00%
-
$                                       
Allowance for unforesceen MEP Issues
0.00%
-
$                                       
Escalation
0.00%
-
$                                       
Permit Allowance
0.00%
-
$                                       
Overtime Allowance
0.00%
-
$                                       
Special Inspections
0.00%
-
$                                       
Subtotal
41,373
$                             
Liability Insurance (1.7%) 
703
$                                  
42,077
$                             
 
Note: Painting and electrical are excluded. CORA to self perform this scope.
Exclusions:  Mold, Hazardous Material, Fire Sprinkler Work, Electrical Work, Mechanical work, Plumbing work
TOTAL BUDGET ROM: 
Work Item Description
Quantity
Project Management Personnel
Subtotal Project Management: 
The Core Group Self Performed Work
Subtotal Self Performed Work: 
Subcontractors
SubTotal
PROJECT SUBTOTALS: 
31 of 39

--- page 32 ---
ATTACHMENT 5 - OTHER FUNDS/LOCAL MATCH  
Provide evidence of other fund commitments or good faith efforts on your part to seek other funding. For 
all funding sources, attach documentation of funding commitments, if available. Indicate the status of 
funding requests if you do not have commitments. 
 
We do not currently have other funds/local match. 
32 of 39

--- page 33 ---
ATTACHMENT 6 - AREA MAP/SITE PLAN 
Provide an area map indicating location of the project, and a photograph of the project site, along with site 
plan. 
 
CORA’s home office: 2211 Palm Street, San Mateo. 
 
Aerial View: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
33 of 39

--- page 34 ---
Close-up of aerial view. CORA space indicated by red outline. 
 
 
 
 
34 of 39

--- page 35 ---
ATTACHMENT 9 - PROJECT TIMELINE 
Provide a project schedule, designating specific work tasks, projected delays, accomplishments, escrow 
dates, projected dates to receive all required funding, construction start dates, and any other major 
milestones. Please indicate any specific dates or requirements for which funds will impact other funding 
sources or deadlines. 
 
The timeline for this project is very simple: upon notification of funding, this shovel-ready 
project will commence: the breezeway will be repaired and the HVAC units will be 
repaired/installed. There are no other requirements for which funds will impact other funding 
sources or deadlines at this time. 
35 of 39

--- page 36 ---
ATTACHMENT 10 - RELOCATION PLAN 
If the proposed project will require relocation of residential or commercial tenants other than yourself, 
provide a copy of the written relocation plan. If you do not yet have a relocation plan, please indicate 
when you expect to provide one to . 
 
This project does not involve relocation of any residential or commercial tenants, including 
CORA. 
36 of 39

--- page 37 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 24-8888
TO:
Community Relations Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
July 17, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Election of New Officers
RECOMMENDATION:
Election of Chair and Vice-Chair for 2024 - 2025
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This election of officers is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
STAFF CONTACT
Nicky Vu, Housing Specialist
nvu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7229
37 of 39

--- page 38 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 24-8931
TO:
Community Relations Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
July 17, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Update on Community Relations Commission Scope Expansion to Include Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI)
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an update from staff on the expansion of the scope of the Community Relations Commission to include Diversity, 
Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) initiatives and provide input on its implementation.
BACKGROUND:
On April 1, 2024, staff presented the City Council with an update on the work of the Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) 
Task Force (DEI Task Force), a group composed of representatives from local community organizations, including non-
profits, neighborhood associations, faith-based coalitions, and partner government entities. Formation of a DEI Task Force 
was a City Council Strategic Plan priority for Fiscal Year 2021-2022. It was first convened in January 2022, with the primary 
objective of building partnerships, sharing resources, and identifying ways to increase community participation and 
engagement in hard-to-reach sectors of the community. 
The DEI Task Force met on a monthly basis through May 2023 and on a bimonthly basis until its last meeting on January 
19, 2024. At the conclusion of the DEI Task Force, its accomplishments included: 
•
Providing guidance on the development of a DEI Strategic Plan & Implementation Framework; 
•
Providing recommendations for diversifying the City's Boards & Commissions, including an increase in 
compensation for City Council, a stipend for Board & Commission members, and removing the citizenship/voter 
registration requirements to participate on a Board or Commission; 
•
Providing key input on the design and community outreach conducted for the Racial Equity Art Project; and 
•
Reviewing and providing input on policy documents such as the draft Housing Element and General Plan. 
At the April 1, 2024 City Council meeting, staff recommended continuing the City's DEI work in a permanent form and 
presented the City Council with options for consideration. The City Council directed staff to assign social impact and DEI 
initiatives to the Community Relations Commission (CRC). In addition, the CRC may serve as a forum for discussion and 
input on the goals, policies, and programs related to Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing that the City committed to in its 
2023-2031 Housing Element, which was adopted by the City Council on May 20, 2024. 
Expanding the CRC’s scope will require amendments to the Municipal Code. The first reading of the draft ordinance 
amending the Municipal Code to reflect these changes is tentatively scheduled for the August 19, 2024 City Council 
meeting, where staff will also seek further direction from City Council on the CRC scope of work for the next two years. 
Staff recommends that the CRC provide input on the implementation of this new area of the CRC's purview. Staff will 
incorporate feedback from the CRC commissioners into the future City Council item. 
38 of 39

--- page 39 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
No budget impact for this discussion. If the City Council directs staff to take specific actions related to the CRC scope of 
work, any applicable budget impacts will be addressed at that time.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None.
STAFF CONTACT
Rachel Horst, Housing Manager
rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org
39 of 39