--- page 1 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 1 of 27
FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT
THIS FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT (this “Agreement”) is made between the CITY 
AND COUNTY OF DENVER, a municipal corporation of the State of Colorado (the “City” or 
the “Customer”), and AXON ENTERPRISE INC., an Arizona corporation, whose address is 
17800 N 85th St, Scottsdale, AZ 85255 (the “Contractor” or “Axon”), individually a “Party” and 
jointly “the Parties.”
RECITALS
WHEREAS, the City awarded this Agreement to the Contractor for the provision and 
implementation of an Automatic License Plate Recognition (ALPR) system.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements 
hereinafter set forth and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby 
acknowledged, the Parties incorporate the recitals set forth above and agree as follows:
1.
DEFINITIONS
1.1. “City Data” means all data, information, documents, records, and materials in any 
format that: (i) originate from or are owned by the City; (ii) are provided by the City to 
the Contractor; (iii) are accessed by the Contractor from City systems, databases, or 
repositories; (iv) are created, developed, compiled, generated, or derived by the 
Contractor using, incorporating, or based upon any City-originating data; (v) contain 
or reference any City-originating data; or (vi) are maintained, processed, stored, or 
transmitted by the Contractor in connection with this Agreement and relate to City 
operations, services, residents, employees, or business. City Data includes all reports, 
analyses, summaries, compilations, derivatives, and other work products created by 
the Contractor that incorporate or are based upon any of the foregoing data. 
1.2. “Deliverables” means any and all On-Premise Software, SaaS, Services, Products, 
intellectual property, documentation, materials, labor, support, maintenance, training, 
updates, configurations, customizations, and other outputs and outcomes provided 
and/or performed by the Contractor pursuant to this Agreement, whether explicitly 
identified in this Agreement or reasonably necessary to fulfill the Contractor’s 
obligations hereunder. Deliverables do not include the Contractor’s pre-existing 
intellectual property or third-party components except to the extent expressly licensed 
or assigned to the City under this Agreement.
1.3. “Effective Date” means the date on which this Agreement is approved and signed by 
the City as shown on the City’s signature page. 
1.4. “Exhibits” means the exhibits and attachments included with this Agreement.
1.5. “On-Premise Software” means software that the Contractor provides for the City’s use 
that is installed and operated on City premises. For the avoidance of doubt, On-
Premise Software does not include SaaS, though On-Premise Software may interface 
with SaaS.
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 2 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 2 of 27
1.6. “Personally Identifiable Information” or “PII” means personally identifiable 
information including, without limitation, any information maintained by the City 
about an individual that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity, 
such as name, social security number, date and place of birth, mother's maiden name, 
or biometric records. PII also includes any other information that is linked or linkable 
to an individual, such as medical, educational, financial, and employment information. 
PII includes, but is not limited to, all information defined as "personally identifiable 
information" in Colo. Rev. Stat. §§ 24-72-501(2), 24-74-102(1), and 24-73-101(4)(b). 
"PII" shall also mean "personal information" as defined in Colo. Rev. Stat. § 24-73-
103(1)(g).
1.7. “Product(s)” means all equipment, hardware, components, peripherals, accessories, 
supplies, parts, consumables, materials, and associated documentation delivered or to 
be delivered by the Contractor under this Agreement, including any customized, 
configured, or modified versions thereof, as well as any replacements, updates, or 
upgrades provided during the term of this Agreement.
1.8. “SaaS” means a software-as-a-service that the Contractor hosts (directly or indirectly) 
for the City’s use. For the avoidance of doubt, SaaS does not include Services or On-
Premise Software.
1.9. “Service(s)” means the technology related professional services to be performed by the 
Contractor as set forth in this Agreement and shall include any services or support 
provided by the Contractor under this Agreement.
1.10.
“Specifications” refers to such technical and functional specifications for On-
Premise Software, SaaS, and/or Deliverables included or referenced in an Exhibit.
1.11.
“Subcontractor” means any third party engaged by the Contractor to aid in 
performance of the Work.
1.12.
“Task Order” means a document issued in accordance with this Agreement that 
specifically describes additional Work to be performed.
1.13.
"Work" means the process of providing, performing, implementing, maintaining, 
supporting, configuring, customizing, updating, delivering, and otherwise making 
available all Deliverables as defined in this Agreement. Work includes all efforts, labor, 
activities, tasks, and responsibilities required to fulfill the Contractor's obligations 
under this Agreement, whether specifically enumerated or reasonably implied, and 
shall be conducted in accordance with the standards, timeframes, and requirements 
set forth herein.
2.
SCOPE OF WORK AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
2.1. Coordination with the City: The Contractor shall fully coordinate all Work 
performed under this Agreement with the City’s Chief Information Officer (“CIO”); 
with other personnel formally designated by the Department of Technology Services 
(“TS”); or, if applicable, with a representative from another City agency, as may be 
expressly designated by the CIO to act on behalf of the City for purposes of this 
Agreement. If a third party is designated by the CIO to serve as a liaison or coordinating 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 3 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 3 of 27
entity on behalf of the City, the Contractor shall also coordinate its Work with such 
third party in the same manner and to the same extent as it would with City personnel.
2.2. Contractor Performance Standards: The Contractor shall diligently perform, 
deliver, and maintain all Deliverables specified in this Agreement. The City shall have 
no obligation to compensate the Contractor for any Work not expressly authorized 
under this Agreement. All Work shall be provided and performed in accordance with 
the Specifications set forth herein. The Contractor represents and warrants that it 
possesses the necessary expertise, capabilities, and resources to provide the Work 
required by this Agreement. The Contractor shall perform all obligations with 
reasonable professional care, skill, training, diligence, and judgment consistent with 
generally accepted industry standards and practices for comparable Work, and in 
compliance with all applicable terms, conditions, and requirements of this Agreement 
free from any liens, adverse claims, encumbrances, or third-party interests.
2.3. Key Personnel: If an Exhibit or Task Order identifies key personnel, the Contractor 
shall not reassign, replace, or remove such personnel without providing the City at least 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice and obtaining the City’s written approval, which 
shall not be unreasonably withheld. Replacement personnel shall possess 
qualifications and experience comparable to or exceeding those of the personnel being 
replaced. The Contractor shall provide the City with the qualifications of any proposed 
replacement for review prior to assignment. The departure of key personnel without 
adequate replacement may, at the City’s sole discretion, constitute a material breach of 
this Agreement.
2.4. Contractor Representations: The Contractor represents and warrants that, as of 
the Effective Date and throughout the Term: (i) it is not currently debarred, suspended, 
or proposed for debarment by any federal, state, or local government entity; (ii) there 
is no pending or threatened litigation, investigation, or proceeding that could 
materially impair the Contractor’s ability to perform its obligations under this 
Agreement; (iii) it has not made and will not make any unlawful payments, bribes, or 
kickbacks in connection with obtaining or performing this Agreement; (iv) all 
information provided to the City during the procurement process and in connection 
with this Agreement is accurate and complete in all material respects; (v) it is in good 
standing in the state of its organization and is qualified to do business in Colorado; and 
(vi) it has disclosed to the City in writing any agreement, contract, or arrangement it 
or any of its Subcontractors currently maintains with the United States Department of 
Homeland Security or any component agency thereof, including the specific federal 
agency, the nature of the work performed, and the terms of compensation, as well as 
any third-party data-sharing arrangements related thereto. The Contractor shall 
promptly notify the City in writing if any of these representations ceases to be accurate 
during the Term.
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 4 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 4 of 27
2.5. Task Orders for Additional Work
2.5.1.
The City may request additional Work by issuing a Task Order. All Task 
Orders must be signed by both Parties and shall incorporate the rates established 
in the Exhibits or, with the City's prior written approval, alternative rates 
specifically negotiated for that Task Order. Each Task Order must specify: (i) a 
detailed scope, quote, or order form; (ii) completion timeline; (iii) applicable 
pricing structure (hourly rates or fixed fee); (iv) payment schedule; and (v) a "not 
to exceed" amount. Task Orders shall be construed to be in addition to, 
supplementary to, and consistent with the provisions of this Agreement. Task 
Orders may be amended through a written instrument jointly prepared and signed 
by authorized representatives of both Parties.
2.5.2.
The City maintains sole discretion regarding the execution of Task Orders 
and is not obligated to issue any minimum number. The Contractor is not entitled 
to compensation for Work not expressly authorized by this Agreement or a 
properly executed Task Order. Expiration or termination of this Agreement 
automatically terminates all associated Task Orders unless the Parties explicitly 
agree otherwise in writing. The City may also terminate individual Task Orders 
according to the termination provisions in this Agreement. 
2.6. License Administration: The City may, at its sole discretion and without formal 
amendment, reassign, add, remove, or substitute individual licensees or authorized 
users under this Agreement at any time during the Term. Reassignment of existing 
licenses among City personnel shall not result in additional fees. Additions that 
increase the total number of licenses beyond the quantity then in effect shall be 
invoiced at the applicable per-unit rates established in the Exhibits. Reductions shall 
be governed by Exhibit C. The Contractor shall implement license changes within five 
(5) business days of the City's written request. If the Contractor offers alternative 
products or modules within its product portfolio, the City may substitute licensed 
products upon written notice to the Contractor, provided that (i) the Parties agree in 
writing to the applicable pricing for the substitute product, (ii) the substitution does 
not increase the Maximum Agreement Amount, and (iii) the substitution does not 
extend the Term. Such substitutions shall be documented by written acknowledgment 
of both Parties but shall not require a formal amendment.
3.
AGREEMENT TERM AND RENEWAL
3.1. Term: The term of the Agreement (“Term”) shall commence on April 1, 2026, and 
expire, unless sooner terminated, on March 31, 2027. Subject to the City’s prior written 
authorization, the Contractor shall complete any work in progress as of the then 
current expiration date and the Term will extend until the work is completed or earlier 
terminated.
3.2. Limited Extension for Completion of Authorized Work: If, at the expiration 
of the Term, the Contractor is performing Work pursuant to a Task Order or other 
written authorization that the Parties expected would be completed prior to expiration, 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 5 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 5 of 27
the City may, in its sole discretion, provide written authorization for the Contractor to 
complete such Work. Upon the City's written authorization, the Term shall extend for 
the period specified in the City's authorization to enable completion of the specifically 
identified Work and submission and processing of final invoices. Any such extension 
shall not constitute authorization for any new Work or general renewal of this 
Agreement. The City may terminate any such extension in accordance with the 
termination provisions herein.
3.3. Timely Renewal and Extension Documentation: To facilitate the City’s contract 
amendment process and ensure continuity of services, the Contractor shall provide the 
City with all required order forms, pricing information, and renewal documentation no 
later than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the expiration of the Term. The 
Contractor shall negotiate any extension or renewal of this Agreement in good faith 
and may not introduce changes to the legal terms and conditions of this Agreement 
through order forms, quotes, or other renewal documentation. If the Contractor does 
not intend to renew or extend the Term of this Agreement, the Contractor shall provide 
written notice to the City no later than one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the 
expiration of the Term.
4.
COMPENSATION AND PAYMENT
4.1. Fees: The City shall pay, and the Contractor shall accept as the sole compensation for 
Work rendered and costs incurred under this Agreement the fees described in the 
attached Exhibits.  Amounts billed may not exceed rates set forth in the Exhibits and 
will be made in accordance with any agreed upon payment milestones.
4.2. Reimbursement Expenses: There are no reimbursable expenses allowed under this 
Agreement. All the Contractor’s expenses are contained in the budget as described in 
the Exhibits. The City will not be obligated to pay the Contractor for any other fees, 
costs, expenses, or charges of any nature that may be incurred and paid by the 
Contractor in performing their obligations under this Agreement including but not 
limited to personnel costs, benefits, contract labor, overhead, administrative costs, 
operating costs, supplies, equipment, and out-of-pocket expenses.
4.3. Invoicing:  The Contractor must submit an invoice which shall include the City 
contract number, clear identification of the Work that has been completed, and other 
information reasonably requested by the City. Payment on all uncontested amounts 
shall be made in accordance with the City’s Prompt Payment Ordinance, D.R.M.C §§ 
20-107 et seq. To the extent any exhibit, attachment, or addendum to this Agreement, 
including any document governing the scope, ordering, or delivery of Work, sets forth 
additional invoicing or billing requirements, such requirements shall supplement the 
foregoing; provided, however, that no such additional requirements shall modify or 
conflict with the City’s obligations under the Prompt Payment Ordinance.
4.4.Maximum Agreement Amount
4.4.1.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the City's total 
financial obligation shall not exceed One Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 6 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 6 of 27
($150,000.00) (the "Maximum Agreement Amount"). The City has no obligation 
to execute any amendments or authorizations for additional Work beyond that 
specifically described in the attached Exhibits. Any Work performed by the 
Contractor that exceeds the scope defined in the attached Exhibits, or that would 
cause the Maximum Agreement Amount to be exceeded, shall be performed at the 
Contractor's sole risk and expense and without authorization under this 
Agreement. The Maximum Agreement Amount includes all fees, costs, expenses, 
and other charges that may be incurred by the Contractor in fulfilling its 
obligations hereunder.
4.4.2.
The City’s payment obligation, whether direct or contingent, extends only 
to funds appropriated annually by the Denver City Council, paid into the Treasury 
of the City, and encumbered for the purpose of this Agreement. The City does not 
by this Agreement irrevocably pledge present cash reserves for payment or 
performance in future fiscal years.  This Agreement does not and is not intended 
to create a multiple-fiscal year direct or indirect debt or financial obligation of the 
City.
4.5. Taxes, Charges, and Penalties: The City shall not be liable for the payment of taxes, 
late charges, or penalties of any nature other than the compensation stated herein, 
except for any additional amounts which the City may be required to pay under 
D.R.M.C. §§ 20-107 to -115.
5.
CONTRACTOR STATUS AND SUBCONTRACTING
5.1. Independent Status: The Contractor is an independent contractor retained to 
perform professional or technical services for limited periods of time. Neither the 
Contractor nor any of its employees are employees or officers of the City under Chapter 
18 of the Denver Revised Municipal Code, or for any purpose whatsoever. Nothing 
contained in this Agreement shall be construed as creating any agency, partnership, 
joint venture, or other form of joint enterprise, or employment relationship between 
the Parties.
5.2. Assignment and Subcontracting: The Contractor shall not sell, transfer, assign, 
subcontract performance obligations, or otherwise dispose of this Agreement or any 
portion thereof, including any right, title, or interest therein, without the City’s prior 
written consent. The City shall not unreasonably withhold approval of an assignment 
when the Contractor is in full compliance with this Agreement and the proposed 
assignee, in the City’s opinion, possesses sufficient business experience, aptitude, and 
financial resources to perform its obligations under this Agreement. The City may, at 
its reasonable discretion, approve the assignment, subcontract, or transfer in writing, 
deny it, or refer the matter to the City’s governing bodies for approval. The City may 
provide its written approval of an assignment without requiring a formal amendment 
to this Agreement. Such written approval may be delivered through a consent letter or 
other written communication, provided it explicitly references this Agreement. Any 
approved assignee shall be subject to all terms and conditions of this Agreement and 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 7 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 7 of 27
other supplemental contractual documents; however, no approval by the City shall 
obligate the City beyond the provisions of this Agreement. Any assignment or 
subcontracting without the City’s consent shall be ineffective and void and shall 
constitute grounds for termination of this Agreement by the City. Should unauthorized 
assignment or subcontracting occur, the Contractor shall remain responsible to the 
City, and no contractual relationship shall be created between the City and any 
subcontractor or assignee. This provision shall also apply to any assignment of this 
Agreement due to change in ownership of the Contractor, and the Contractor shall 
notify the City in writing of any assignment due to change in ownership within thirty 
(30) days of such change.
6.
TERMINATION
6.1. Termination for Breach: Either Party may terminate this Agreement for material 
breach by providing 30 days written notice detailing the breach, unless the breaching 
party cures the breach within that period. Termination is effective immediately if the 
breach cannot be cured. 
6.2. City Termination Without Cause: The City may terminate this Agreement, or a 
specific Deliverable under this Agreement, without cause with 60 days written notice. 
Upon termination without cause, the City shall pay the Contractor for: (i) all completed 
and accepted Work performed through the effective date of termination; and (ii) all 
non-cancelable commitments reasonably incurred by the Contractor prior to receiving 
notice of termination. The City has no obligation to pay for subscription years, licensing 
fees, or support costs beyond the effective date of termination. Notwithstanding § 14.1 
of Exhibit F, no termination fee, MSRP differential, or clawback of any kind shall be 
owed by the City upon termination under this Section.
6.3. Immediate Termination for Criminal Activity: The City may immediately 
terminate if the Contractor or its personnel are convicted of or admit to criminal 
offenses including bribery, fraud, theft, antitrust violations, or similar crimes related 
to business activities. The City may also suspend performance during investigations of 
such conduct.
6.4.Termination for Public Interest or Lack of Appropriation: If this Agreement 
ceases to further the public interest of the City, or if the City fails to appropriate the 
necessary funding to continue this Agreement, the City, in its discretion, may terminate 
this Agreement in whole or in part. A determination that this Agreement should be 
terminated in the public interest or for lack of appropriation shall not be equivalent to 
a City right to terminate for convenience or without cause. Upon such termination, the 
City will pay the Contractor for the percentage of satisfactorily completed and accepted 
Work, less previous payments.
6.5. Post-Termination Obligations: Upon termination of this Agreement, the 
Contractor shall have no claim against the City by reason of, or arising out of, incidental 
or relating to termination, except for compensation for satisfactorily completed Work. 
The Contractor must return all City property upon request or termination. 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 8 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 8 of 27
7.
EXAMINATION OF RECORDS AND AUDITS: Any authorized agent of the City, 
including the City Auditor or his or her representative, has the right to access, and the right 
to examine, copy and retain copies, at City’s election in paper or electronic form, any 
pertinent books, documents, papers and records related to the Contractor’s performance 
pursuant to this Agreement, provision of any goods or services to the City, and any other 
transactions related to this Agreement. The Contractor shall cooperate with City 
representatives and City representatives shall be granted access to the foregoing documents 
and information during reasonable business hours and until the latter of three (3) years after 
the final payment under this Agreement or expiration of the applicable statute of limitations.  
When conducting an audit of this Agreement, the City Auditor shall be subject to government 
auditing standards issued by the United States Government Accountability Office by the 
Comptroller General of the United States, including with respect to disclosure of information 
acquired during the course of an audit. No examination of records and audits pursuant to 
this paragraph shall require the Contractor to make disclosures in violation of state or 
federal privacy laws. The Contractor shall at all times comply with D.R.M.C. § 20-276.
8. INSURANCE
8.1. General Conditions: The Contractor agrees to secure, at or before the time of 
execution of this Agreement, the following insurance covering all operations, goods or 
services provided pursuant to this Agreement. The Contractor shall keep the required 
insurance coverage in force at all times during the term of this Agreement, including 
any extension thereof, and during any warranty period. The required insurance shall 
be underwritten by an insurer licensed or authorized to do business in Colorado and 
rated by A.M. Best Company as “A-VIII" or better. Each policy shall require notification 
to the City in the event any of the required policies be canceled or non-renewed before 
the expiration date thereof. Such written notice shall be sent to the parties identified 
in the Notices Section of this Agreement. Such notice shall reference the City contract 
number listed on the signature page of this Agreement. Said notice shall be sent thirty 
(30) days prior to such cancellation or non-renewal unless due to non-payment of 
premiums for which notice shall be sent ten (10) days prior. If such written notice is 
unavailable from the insurer, the Contractor shall provide written notice of 
cancellation, non-renewal and any reduction in coverage to the parties identified in the 
Notices Section by certified mail, return receipt requested within three (3) business 
days of such notice by its insurer(s) and referencing the City’s contract number. The 
Contractor shall be responsible for the payment of any deductible or self-insured 
retention. The insurance coverages specified in this Agreement are the minimum 
requirements, and these requirements do not lessen or limit the liability of the 
Contractor. The Contractor shall maintain, at its own expense, any additional kinds or 
amounts of insurance that it may deem necessary to cover its obligations and liabilities 
under this Agreement.
8.2.Proof of Insurance: The Contractor may not commence Work relating to this 
Agreement prior to placement of coverages required under this Agreement. The 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 9 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 9 of 27
Contractor certifies that the certificate of insurance attached as Exhibit B, preferably 
an ACORD form, complies with all insurance requirements of this Agreement. The City 
requests that the City’s contract number be referenced on the certificate of insurance. 
The City’s acceptance of a certificate of insurance or other proof of insurance that does 
not comply with all insurance requirements set forth in this Agreement shall not act as 
a waiver of the Contractor’s breach of this Agreement or of any of the City’s rights or 
remedies under this Agreement. In the event of a claim, the City’s Risk Management 
Office may require additional proof of insurance, including but not limited to policies 
and endorsements.
8.3.Additional Insureds: For Commercial General Liability, Auto Liability and Excess 
Liability/Umbrella (if required), the Contractor and Subcontractor’s insurer(s) shall 
include the City and County of Denver, its elected and appointed officials, employees, 
and volunteers as additional insured.
8.4.Waiver of Subrogation: For all coverages required under this Agreement, with the 
exception of Professional Liability – if required, the Contractor’s insurer shall waive 
subrogation rights against the City.
8.5. Subcontractors and Subconsultants: The Contractor shall confirm and document 
that all Subcontractors and subconsultants (including independent contractors, 
suppliers or other entities providing goods or services required by this Agreement) 
procure and maintain coverage as approved by the Contractor and appropriate to their 
respective primary business risks considering the nature and scope of services 
provided.
8.6.Workers’ Compensation and Employer’s Liability Insurance: The Contractor 
shall maintain the coverage as required by statute for each work location and shall 
maintain Employer’s Liability insurance with limits of $100,000 per occurrence for 
each bodily injury claim, $100,000 per occurrence for each bodily injury caused by 
disease claim, and $500,000 aggregate for all bodily injuries caused by disease claims.
8.7. Commercial General Liability: The Contractor shall maintain a Commercial 
General Liability insurance policy with minimum limits of $1,000,000 for each bodily 
injury and property damage occurrence, $2,000,000 products and completed 
operations aggregate (if applicable), and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.
8.8.Automobile Liability: The Contractor shall maintain Automobile Liability with 
minimum limits of $1,000,000 combined single limit applicable to all owned, hired, 
and non-owned vehicles used in performing Work under this Agreement.
8.9.Professional Liability (Errors & Omissions): The Contractor shall maintain 
minimum limits of $1,000,000 per claim and $1,000,000 policy aggregate limit. The 
policy shall be kept in force, or a Tail policy placed, for three (3) years for all contracts 
except construction contracts for which the policy or Tail shall be kept in place for eight 
(8) years.
8.10.
Cyber Liability: The Contractor shall maintain Cyber Liability coverage with 
minimum limits of $1,000,000 per occurrence and $1,000,000 policy aggregate 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 10 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 10 of 27
covering claims involving privacy violations, information theft, damage to or 
destruction of electronic information, intentional and/or unintentional release of 
private information, alteration of electronic information, extortion and network 
security. If Claims Made, the policy shall be kept in force, or a Tail policy placed, for 
three (3) years.
9.
BREACH AND REMEDIES: This Section establishes the general framework governing 
breach, cure procedures, and remedies applicable to this Agreement. The provisions herein 
supplement and work in conjunction with specific remedial provisions set forth elsewhere 
in this Agreement, including but not limited to the termination rights, the indemnification 
and limitation of liability provisions, the Security Breach obligations, and the accessibility 
remediation requirements. Where such specific provisions exist, they shall govern with 
respect to their subject matter, and this Section shall provide additional and cumulative 
remedies unless expressly stated otherwise. The Parties acknowledge that the remedies 
specified throughout this Agreement, including those enumerated in this Section, are not 
intended to be exclusive but rather to provide the non-breaching Party with a comprehensive 
array of options to protect its interests and ensure proper performance. The Parties’ rights 
under this Section are in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other rights or remedies available 
under applicable law, including the City's sovereign prerogatives and its authority to protect 
the public interest.
9.1. Definition of Breach: A breach occurs when either Party fails to perform any 
material obligation under this Agreement in a timely or satisfactory manner. The 
institution of bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, or similar proceedings by or 
against the Contractor, or the appointment of a receiver or similar officer for the 
Contractor or its property, which is not vacated or fully stayed within thirty (30) days, 
shall also constitute a breach by the Contractor. For purposes of this Section, a failure 
to perform that qualifies as an Excusable Delay under this Agreement shall not 
constitute a breach, provided the delayed Party promptly notifies the other Party and 
provides reasonable documentation of the Excusable Delay.
9.2. Notice and Cure: Upon breach, the non-breaching Party shall provide written notice 
specifying the breach. The breaching Party shall have thirty (30) days after receipt of 
such notice to cure the breach at its sole expense, unless the breach cannot be cured, 
in which case the non-breaching Party may exercise its remedies immediately. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City may immediately terminate this Agreement or 
exercise any other remedy herein without prior notice or cure period if: (i) the 
Contractor's breach poses an imminent threat to public health, safety, or welfare; (ii) 
the circumstances described in Section 6.3 exist; (iii) the Contractor abandons 
performance; or (iv) the Contractor commits a Security Breach as defined herein, 
provided that the notification and remediation requirements of this Agreement shall 
remain applicable. If, after such immediate termination, the City determines that the 
grounds for immediate action did not exist, the termination shall be treated as a 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 11 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 11 of 27
termination without cause under this Agreement, and the Parties' rights and 
obligations shall be as set forth therein.
9.3. City's Remedies: If the Contractor fails to cure a breach within the applicable cure 
period, the City shall have all remedies listed in this Section in addition to all other 
remedies available under this Agreement or at law. All remedies are cumulative and 
not exclusive, and the City may exercise any or all such remedies concurrently or 
consecutively.
9.3.1.
Withhold or Deny Payment: Notwithstanding the payment timelines 
herein, the City may withhold any payment reasonably related to the breach until 
the breach is cured or may deny payment for Work not performed or improperly 
performed. Any denial of payment shall be commensurate with the value of 
obligations not performed or the diminution in value to the City. The City shall 
exercise any right to withhold payment within ninety (90) days of discovering the 
basis for withholding.
9.3.2.
Suspend Performance: The City may suspend the Contractor's 
performance with respect to all or any portion of the Work without entitling the 
Contractor to any adjustment in price, cost, or schedule. The Contractor shall 
promptly cease Work and incurring costs in accordance with the City's directive, 
and the City shall not be liable for costs the Contractor incurs after such 
suspension.
9.3.3.
Procure Replacement Services: The City may procure from third 
parties replacement or substitute Work as cover, and the Contractor shall remain 
liable for any reasonable excess costs the City incurs. The City may offset such 
excess costs against any amounts due or that may become due to the Contractor.
9.3.4.
Demand Removal of Personnel: The City may demand removal of any 
of the Contractor's employees, agents, or Subcontractors whom the City 
reasonably deems unqualified, unprofessional, unsuitable, or whose continued 
involvement the City determines to be contrary to the public interest. The 
Contractor shall comply within five (5) business days at no additional cost to the 
City.
9.3.5.
Intellectual Property Remedies: If any Work infringes, or if the City 
reasonably determines that any Work is likely to infringe, any intellectual property 
right, the Contractor shall, at the City's election and the Contractor's sole expense: 
(i) secure for the City the right to continue using such Work; (ii) replace or modify 
the Work to render it non-infringing without material degradation of 
functionality; or (iii) remove the infringing Work and refund to the City all 
amounts paid for such Work, prorated over the remaining Term.
9.3.6.
Setoff and Damages: The Contractor shall remain liable to the City for 
any damages sustained by the City in connection with any breach, subject to the 
limitations set forth in Section 9.2. The City may setoff against any amounts due 
or that may become due to the Contractor any damages, costs, expenses, or other 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 12 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 12 of 27
sums the Contractor owes the City, and may withhold any amount the City 
reasonably deems necessary to protect against loss, including loss resulting from 
outstanding liens or excess procurement costs, until the exact amount of damages 
is determined.
9.3.7.
Audit-Discovered Breaches: If any audit conducted pursuant to Section 
7 reveals that the Contractor has overbilled the City, materially misrepresented its 
performance, or otherwise obtained payment for Work not properly performed, 
the Contractor shall immediately refund such amounts to the City with interest at 
the rate specified in D.R.M.C. § 20-107 et seq. from the date of overpayment. The 
City may setoff such amounts against any payments due or that may become due 
to the Contractor.
9.3.8.
Step-In Rights: In the event of the Contractor’s material breach, 
abandonment of performance, or insolvency, and to the extent necessary to 
maintain continuity of critical City operations, the City or its designee may, upon 
reasonable notice (or without notice if the circumstances present an imminent 
threat to public health, safety, or the security of City Data), access the Contractor’s 
systems, tools, and environments solely to the extent required to maintain, 
operate, or transition the Work. The Contractor shall cooperate with such access 
and shall not impede, disable, or restrict the City’s ability to access City Data or 
maintain service operations during any transition period. This right is in addition 
to, and not in lieu of, the City’s rights under Section 9.3.3.
9.4.Post-Termination Obligations: Upon termination for breach, the Contractor shall 
comply with all post-termination obligations set forth in Section 6.5. In addition, at the 
City's request, the Contractor shall assign to the City all of the Contractor's rights, title, 
and interest in any outstanding orders or subcontracts related to the terminated Work. 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the City shall only pay the Contractor for 
Work accepted by the City as of the date of termination. Any costs incurred by the 
Contractor to cure breaches, redo Work, or otherwise remedy performance deficiencies 
shall be at the Contractor's sole expense and shall not increase the Maximum 
Agreement Amount.
9.5. Contractor's Remedies: If the City materially breaches this Agreement and fails to 
cure such breach within thirty (30) days after receiving written notice specifying the 
breach, the Contractor may, following exhaustion of the administrative hearing process 
set forth herein, pursue such remedies as are available at law or in equity. If the City's 
breach involves failure to pay undisputed amounts when due, the Contractor may 
suspend performance after providing an additional fifteen (15) days' written notice, 
and the Contractor's obligation to continue performing shall be limited to Work for 
which the City has paid or for which payment is not disputed. The Contractor's 
monetary remedies shall be limited to direct damages actually incurred and shall 
exclude consequential, special, incidental, or punitive damages; provided that if the 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 13 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 13 of 27
City materially breaches its payment obligations under Section 4, the Contractor may 
also recover reasonable attorneys' fees incurred in collecting such amounts.
9.6.Equitable Relief: The Parties acknowledge that breach of the confidentiality, data 
protection, intellectual property, or personnel provisions of this Agreement may cause 
irreparable harm for which monetary damages are an inadequate remedy. Accordingly, 
either Party may seek injunctive relief or specific performance for such breaches 
without posting bond and without proving actual damages, in addition to any other 
available remedies.
9.7. Survival: The rights and remedies set forth in this Section shall survive expiration or 
termination of this Agreement.
10. INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY
10.1.
Defense and Indemnification
10.1.1.
The Contractor hereby agrees to defend, indemnify, reimburse and hold 
harmless City, its appointed and elected officials, agents and employees for, from 
and against all liabilities, claims, judgments, suits or demands for damages to 
persons or property arising out of, resulting from, or relating to the Work 
performed under this Agreement (“Claims”), unless such Claims have been 
specifically determined by the trier of fact to be the sole negligence or willful 
misconduct of the City. This indemnity shall be interpreted in the broadest 
possible manner to indemnify City for any acts or omissions of the Contractor or 
its Subcontractors either passive or active, irrespective of fault, including City’s 
concurrent negligence whether active or passive, except for the sole negligence or 
willful misconduct of City.
10.1.2.
The Contractor’s duty to defend and indemnify City shall arise at the time 
written notice of the Claim is first provided to City regardless of whether Claimant 
has filed suit on the Claim. The Contractor’s duty to defend and indemnify City 
shall arise even if City is the only party sued by claimant and/or claimant alleges 
that City’s negligence or willful misconduct was the sole cause of claimant’s 
damages.
10.1.3.
The Contractor will defend any and all Claims which may be brought or 
threatened against City and will pay on behalf of City any expenses incurred by 
reason of such Claims including, but not limited to, court costs and attorney fees 
incurred in defending and investigating such Claims or seeking to enforce this 
indemnity obligation. Such payments on behalf of City shall be in addition to any 
other legal remedies available to City and shall not be considered City’s exclusive 
remedy.
10.1.4.
Insurance coverage requirements specified in this Agreement shall in no 
way lessen or limit the liability of the Contractor under the terms of this 
indemnification obligation.  The Contractor shall obtain, at its own expense, any 
additional insurance that it deems necessary for the City’s protection.
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 14 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 14 of 27
10.1.5.
The Contractor shall indemnify, save, and hold harmless the indemnified 
parties, against any and all costs, expenses, claims, damages, liabilities, and other 
amounts (including attorneys’ fees and costs) incurred by the indemnified parties 
in relation to any claim that any Work provided by the Contractor under this 
Agreement (collectively, “IP Deliverables”), or the use thereof, infringes a patent, 
copyright, trademark, trade secret, or any other intellectual property right. The 
Contractor's indemnification obligations under this Section shall not apply to 
infringement arising solely from: (i) the City's combination of the IP Deliverables 
with products, systems, or methods not provided, specified, or approved by the 
Contractor; (ii) the City's modification of the IP Deliverables contrary to the 
Contractor's instructions or specifications; or (iii) the City's use of the IP 
Deliverables in a manner not contemplated by this Agreement or the applicable 
documentation, provided that such non-contemplated use was not reasonably 
foreseeable by the Contractor. This defense and indemnification obligation shall 
survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.
10.2.
Limitation of Liability: To the extent permitted by law, and subject to the 
exceptions below, the Contractor's total aggregate liability to the City under or relating 
to this Agreement shall not exceed five million dollars ($5,000,000). This limitation 
applies to all damages of any kind, including direct, indirect, consequential, special, 
incidental, punitive, and exemplary damages, whether arising in contract, tort, strict 
liability, or otherwise.
10.3.
Colorado Governmental Immunity Act: The Parties hereto understand and 
agree that the City is relying upon, and has not waived, the monetary limitations and 
all other rights, immunities and protection provided by the Colorado Governmental 
Act, Colo. Rev. Stat. § 24-10-101 et seq.
11. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND POLICIES
11.1.
General Compliance: The Contractor shall comply with all applicable federal, 
state, and local laws, codes, rules, and regulations, including those of the United States, 
the State of Colorado, and the City and County of Denver. This includes, without 
limitation, the City’s Charter, ordinances, public health orders, executive orders, and 
any other governing authorities relevant to the Contractor’s performance under this 
Agreement. All such requirements are incorporated herein by reference to the extent 
applicable. Contractor personnel accessing City facilities shall adhere to City policies 
concerning facility access, use, and conduct. Upon request, the City shall provide the 
Contractor with copies of such policies.
11.2.
Compliance with Denver Wage Laws: To the extent applicable to the 
Contractor’s provision of Services hereunder, the Contractor shall comply with, and 
agrees to be bound by, all rules, regulations, requirements, conditions, and City 
determinations regarding the City’s Minimum Wage and Civil Wage Theft Ordinances, 
D.R.M.C. §§ 58-1 to -26, including, but not limited to, the requirement that every 
covered worker shall be paid all earned wages under applicable state, federal, and city 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 15 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 15 of 27
law in accordance with the foregoing D.R.M.C. Sections. By executing this Agreement, 
the Contractor expressly acknowledges that the Contractor is aware of the 
requirements of the City’s Minimum Wage and Civil Wage Theft Ordinances and that 
any failure by the Contractor, or any other individual or entity acting subject to this 
Agreement, to strictly comply with the foregoing D.R.M.C. Sections shall result in the 
penalties and other remedies authorized therein.
12. INFORMATION SECURITY AND DATA PROTECTION
12.1.
Compliance with Data Protection Laws: The Contractor recognizes and 
agrees that: (i) City Data is valuable property of the City; (ii) City Data may include 
Confidential Information, protected, sensitive, or regulated data, and trade secrets of 
the City; and (iii) the City has dedicated substantial resources to collecting, managing, 
protecting, and compiling City Data. The Contractor recognizes and agrees that City 
Data may contain PII, as defined below, or other sensitive information, even if the 
presence of such information is not labeled or disclosed. If the Contractor receives 
access to City Data, the Contractor shall comply with all applicable federal, state, and 
local data protection laws, regulations, and industry standards relevant to their 
performance under this Agreement, including but not limited to Colo. Rev. Stat. §§ 24-
73-101 et seq. At a minimum, the Contractor shall implement and maintain reasonable 
administrative, physical, technical, and procedural safeguards appropriate to the 
nature of the City Data disclosed. These safeguards must include clearly defined 
authorization processes, industry-standard security methods, and reasonable access 
restrictions to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of all City Data, 
protecting such data from unauthorized access, use, modification, disclosure, or 
destruction, and guarding against anticipated threats or hazards to its security or 
integrity. The Contractor shall also comply with the terms and conditions in the 
attached Exhibit C, Information Technology Provisions. The operational security 
standards, audit requirements, and technical controls set forth in Exhibit C 
supplement and implement the data protection obligations of this Section. In the event 
of conflict between this Section and Exhibit C, the provision imposing the greater 
protection for City Data shall govern. Any Exhibit or external term hereto may not 
waive or modify the Contractor’s legal obligations to protect City Data in compliance 
with applicable law. The Contractor shall not share, transfer, grant access to, or 
otherwise make available any City databases, City Data, or technology access provided 
under this Agreement to the United States Department of Homeland Security or its 
immigration enforcement partners, except pursuant to a subpoena, judicial warrant, 
or court order, or as otherwise required by applicable law. Upon receipt of any request 
from the Department of Homeland Security or its immigration enforcement partners 
for access to City Data or City technology systems, the Contractor shall promptly notify 
the City before any disclosure and cooperate with the City’s right to intervene, 
consistent with the procedures set forth in Section 12.4.
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 16 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 16 of 27
12.2.
Personal Information Protection: As required by D.R.M.C. § 28-251 and 
Colo. Rev. Stat. § 24-74-102 et seq., the Contractor, including its employees, agents, 
and Subcontractors, shall not share any Personal Identifying Information (PII), as 
defined in Colo. Rev. Stat. § 24-74-102, with third parties for purposes of investigating 
for, participating in, cooperating with, or assisting in federal immigration enforcement, 
including enforcement of civil immigration laws and 8 U.S.C. §§ 1325 or 1326, except 
as required by applicable federal or state law or to comply with a judge-signed or 
magistrate-signed subpoena, warrant, or order. The Contractor shall not collect or 
disseminate individually identifiable information regarding national origin, 
immigration status, citizenship status, or place of birth except as expressly required by 
applicable federal, state, or local law. If the Contractor is granted direct access to any 
City database or automated network containing PII, the Contractor shall execute 
annually on behalf of itself and its employees a certification in the form provided by 
the City confirming compliance with the obligations set forth in this section, which 
requirement shall remain in effect for the duration of such access. If the Contractor 
engages any Subcontractors that require direct access to City databases or automated 
networks containing PII, the Contractor shall require such Subcontractors to execute 
and deliver the certification to the City annually for the duration of their access.
12.3.
Security Breach and Remediation
12.3.1.
Security Breach Notification and Response: Upon becoming aware 
or reasonably suspecting that a Security Breach has occurred, the Contractor shall: 
(i) provide initial notification to the City within forty-eight (48) hours, followed 
by 
a 
detailed 
written 
report 
within 
seventy-two 
(72) 
hours 
to 
Privacy@denvergov.org, ATTN: CCD Data Protection Officer; (ii) cooperate fully 
with the City regarding data recovery, required lawful notices, investigations, and 
remediation efforts; (iii) preserve and provide to the City all information and 
documentation relevant to the Security Breach; (iv) take immediate steps to 
contain and mitigate the Security Breach and prevent further unauthorized access 
or disclosure; and (v) conduct or commission a prompt forensic investigation to 
determine the cause, scope, and impact of the Security Breach. For purposes of 
this Section, "Security Breach" means any event that compromises the security, 
confidentiality, integrity, or availability of City Data, including but not limited to: 
(a) unauthorized or unlawful acquisition, access, use, disclosure, alteration, or 
destruction of City Data; or (b) loss, theft, or other compromise of systems or 
media containing City Data.
12.3.2.
Remediation: The Contractor shall implement and maintain a 
comprehensive program for managing actual Security Breaches. Upon discovery 
of a Security Breach, the Contractor shall take immediate steps to contain and 
mitigate the Security Breach and prevent further unauthorized access or 
disclosure. The Contractor shall cooperate fully with the City and law enforcement 
agencies, when applicable, regarding data recovery, required lawful notices, 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 17 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 17 of 27
investigations, and remediation efforts. The Contractor shall preserve and provide 
to the City prompt access to all information, documentation, and records relevant 
to the Security Breach as the City may reasonably request. The Contractor may 
redact information that relates solely to other customers and has no bearing on 
the City's Security Breach, provided that the Contractor shall not redact: (i) any 
information concerning the Contractor's security practices, policies, procedures, 
or infrastructure; (ii) information concerning the root cause or attack vector of the 
Security Breach; (iii) information concerning the Contractor's incident response; 
or (iv) information necessary for the City to assess the scope and impact of the 
Security Breach on City Data. Any information provided under this Section shall 
be subject to the confidentiality obligations of this Agreement, and the City shall 
use reasonable efforts to protect the Contractor's proprietary information from 
unnecessary disclosure.
12.3.3.
Financial Responsibility: The Contractor shall indemnify, defend, and 
hold the City harmless from and against all claims, liabilities, costs, expenses, and 
damages, including reasonable attorneys' fees, arising from or related to any 
Security Breach caused by the Contractor's negligent, reckless, or intentional acts 
or omissions, except to the extent such Security Breach is caused solely by the 
City's negligent acts or omissions. The Contractor shall bear all costs associated 
with Security Breach notification, investigation, remediation, and any legally 
required credit monitoring or identity protection services for affected individuals.
12.4.
Response to Legal Orders for City Data: If the Contractor is required by a 
court of competent jurisdiction or administrative body to disclose City Data, the 
Contractor shall first notify the City and, prior to any disclosure, cooperate with the 
City’s reasonable requests in connection with the City’s right to intervene, quash, or 
modify the legal order, demand, or request, and upon request, provide the City with a 
copy of its response. Upon notice, the City will promptly coordinate with the Contractor 
regarding the preservation and disposition of any City Data and records relevant to any 
current or anticipated litigation. If the City receives a subpoena, legal order, or other 
legal demand seeking data maintained by the Contractor, the City will promptly 
provide a copy to the Contractor. Upon notice and if required by law, the Contractor 
shall promptly provide the City with copies of its data required for the City to meet its 
necessary disclosure obligations.
13. DIGITAL ACCESSIBILITY REQUIREMENTS
13.1.
Accessibility Standards: To the extent required by law, the Contractor shall 
comply with the Accessibility Standards for Individuals with a Disability, as adopted 
by the Colorado Office of Information Technology under Colo. Rev. Stat. § 24-85-103 
(the "Accessibility Standards"), and with the accessibility requirements applicable to 
the City as a public entity under Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. 
§ 12131 et seq., and its implementing regulations, including applicable web and mobile 
application accessibility standards.
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 18 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 18 of 27
13.2.
Remediation Requirements: The City reserves the right, at its sole discretion, 
to engage a third-party evaluator to determine whether the Contractor is in compliance 
with the Accessibility Standards. The Contractor shall promptly address and resolve 
any accessibility non-compliance issues identified at no additional cost to the City. 
Upon the City’s reasonable determination that accessibility issues exist, the Contractor 
shall develop a comprehensive remediation plan with specific timelines, subject to City 
approval. Accessibility issues shall be classified as high-priority fixes, and insufficient 
progress toward compliance with the Accessibility Standards as outlined in the 
approved remediation plan shall constitute a material breach of this Agreement, 
potentially resulting in termination or non-renewal.
13.3.
Accessibility Indemnification: The Contractor shall indemnify, save, hold 
harmless, and assume liability on behalf of the City, its officers, employees, agents, and 
assignees for all costs, expenses, claims, damages, liabilities, court awards, and other 
amounts, including attorneys’ fees and related costs, incurred by the indemnified 
parties in relation to the Contractor’s noncompliance with the Accessibility Standards. 
For purposes of this Section, City employees are considered third parties.
14. CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
14.1.
General Confidentiality Obligations
14.1.1.
Definition: "Confidential Information" refers to any data or information, 
in any form, that is not subject to disclosure under the Colorado Open Records Act 
(CORA), Colo. Rev. Stat. §§ 24-72-201 et seq., and that is: (i) identified at the time 
of disclosure as confidential, proprietary, or otherwise protected; or (ii) that a 
reasonable person would understand to be confidential given the nature of the 
information and the circumstances of its disclosure. For the avoidance of doubt, 
all City Data as defined in this Agreement shall be deemed Confidential 
Information of the City without any requirement of marking or identification at 
the time of disclosure. Either Party ("Disclosing Party") may provide such 
information to the other ("Receiving Party") under this Agreement. This 
Agreement conveys no ownership or license rights in the Confidential 
Information.
14.1.2.
Use and Disclosure Restrictions: The Receiving Party shall not 
disclose, reproduce, or use the Disclosing Party's Confidential Information except 
as reasonably necessary to perform its obligations under this Agreement, and only 
to its employees, agents, consultants, or Subcontractors who require access for 
performance and are bound by written confidentiality obligations no less 
restrictive than those set forth herein. If compelled by law, regulation, or legal 
process other than CORA to disclose Confidential Information, the Receiving 
Party shall provide the Disclosing Party with prompt written notice sufficient to 
allow the Disclosing Party to seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy, 
shall cooperate with the Disclosing Party's reasonable efforts to resist or narrow 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 19 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 19 of 27
the scope of disclosure, and shall disclose only the minimum information legally 
required.
14.1.3.
Exceptions: Confidential Information does not include information that 
the Receiving Party can clearly demonstrate by competent evidence: (i) was 
lawfully in its possession prior to disclosure by the Disclosing Party; (ii) became 
publicly available through no breach of this Agreement; (iii) was independently 
developed without reference to the Disclosing Party's Confidential Information; 
or (iv) was lawfully obtained from a third party under no duty of confidentiality.
14.1.4.
Personally Identifiable Information: The foregoing exceptions shall 
not apply to City Data containing PII, which shall remain subject to the full data 
protection and confidentiality obligations of this Agreement regardless of whether 
any individual data element within such information is, or becomes, publicly 
available through any means.
14.1.5.
Residual Knowledge: Nothing in this Section shall restrict either Party's 
personnel from using general knowledge, skills, ideas, concepts, or techniques 
retained in unaided memory and gained through experience during the 
performance of this Agreement, provided that such use does not involve the 
disclosure or reproduction of Confidential Information in any tangible form.
14.1.6.
Survival: The obligations set forth in this Section 14 survive expiration or 
termination of this Agreement; provided, however, that obligations with respect 
to City Data, Personally Identifiable Information, and trade secrets shall survive 
in perpetuity, and obligations with respect to all other Confidential Information 
shall survive for a period of five (5) years following expiration or termination.
14.2.
Colorado Open Records Act: Nothing in this Agreement restricts the City's 
ability to comply with applicable laws or legal processes related to public disclosure. 
The Parties acknowledge that the Colorado Open Records Act (CORA), Colo. Rev. Stat. 
§§ 24-72-201 et seq., governs public disclosure of City records, and that materials 
exchanged hereunder, including Confidential Information, may be subject to 
disclosure thereunder. Upon receiving a disclosure request, the City shall promptly 
notify the Contractor, allowing an opportunity to object and identify the legal basis for 
withholding. In the event of legal action to compel disclosure, the Contractor shall 
either intervene to assert its claims or waive its objection. If the matter remains 
unresolved, the City shall submit the disputed material to a court for judicial 
determination. The Contractor further agrees to defend, indemnify, and save and hold 
harmless the City, its officers, agents, and employees, from any claim, damages, 
expense, attorneys' fees, or costs arising out of the Contractor's intervention to protect 
and assert its claim of privilege against disclosure under this Section.
15. DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY IT PROVISIONS: The Parties acknowledge and 
agree that the Department of Public Safety Information Technology Provisions (“DPS IT 
Provisions”), attached as Exhibit D, are hereby incorporated into this Agreement. The DPS 
IT Provisions govern all technology, software, hardware, systems, services, interfaces, data 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 20 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 20 of 27
exchanges, security requirements, and related deliverables procured, implemented, 
supported, or used under this Agreement. Any matters relating to the interpretation or 
application of the DPS IT Provisions shall be resolved in accordance with the Order of 
Precedence set forth within this Agreement.
16. CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION: The Contractor shall ensure that all Work 
performed under this Agreement complies with the standards set forth in the Criminal 
Justice Information Services (“CJIS”) Security Policy, attached hereto and incorporated as 
Exhibit E, and all other applicable requirements issued by the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation (“FBI”). The Contractor is responsible for safeguarding the confidentiality, 
integrity, and availability of criminal justice information (“CJI”) from unauthorized access, 
use, or disclosure. The Contractor shall assign and maintain internal responsibilities for 
CJIS compliance and fully cooperate with audits or inspections conducted by the City, the 
Colorado Bureau of Investigation, or the FBI to verify adherence to the CJIS Security Policy. 
Any breach or security incident involving CJI must be promptly reported to the City, along 
with appropriate remedial actions. Contractors with direct or indirect access to CJI shall 
handle CJI in accordance with the CJIS Security Policy and Title 28 of the Code of Federal 
Regulations, Part 20. Contractors supporting systems that provide direct access to CJI shall 
also follow the applicable laws, policies, and manuals incorporated into this Agreement, 
including but not limited to the NCIC Operating Manual, CCIC Training Manual, Interstate 
Identification Index / National Fingerprint File Operational and Technical Manual, and Title 
28 CFR Part 23. Contractors performing criminal justice functions and accessing CJI shall 
meet the same training and certification standards as governmental agencies performing 
comparable duties and shall be subject to audits on the same basis. Prior to receiving access 
to CJI or Federal Criminal History Record Information (“CHRI”), the Contractor and its 
personnel shall complete the CJIS Security Addendum certification, attached hereto. The 
Contractor shall maintain signed certification pages for each individual and provide copies 
to the City upon request.
17. GOVERNING LAW; VENUE: This Agreement will be construed and enforced in 
accordance with applicable federal law, the laws of the State of Colorado, and the Charter, 
Revised Municipal Code, ordinances, regulations and Executive Orders of the City and 
County of Denver, which are expressly incorporated into this Agreement. Unless otherwise 
specified, any reference to statutes, laws, regulations, charter or code provisions, ordinances, 
executive orders, or related memoranda, includes amendments or supplements to same. 
Venue for any legal action relating to this Agreement will be in the District Court of the State 
of Colorado, Second Judicial District (Denver District Court).
18. WHEN RIGHTS AND REMEDIES NOT WAIVED: In no event shall any action by 
either Party hereunder constitute or be construed to be a waiver by the other Party of any 
breach of covenant or default which may then exist on the part of the Party alleged to be in 
breach, and the non-breaching Party’s action or inaction when any such breach or default 
shall exist shall not impair or prejudice any right or remedy available to that Party with 
respect to such breach or default; and no assent, expressed or implied, to any breach of any 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 21 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 21 of 27
one or more covenants, provisions or conditions of this Agreement shall be deemed or taken 
to be a waiver of any other breach.
19. NO THIRD-PARTY BENEFICIARY: Enforcement of the terms of this Agreement and 
all rights of action relating to enforcement are strictly reserved to the Parties.  Nothing 
contained in this Agreement gives or allows any claim or right of action to any third person 
or entity.  Any person or entity other than the City or the Contractor receiving services or 
benefits pursuant to this Agreement is an incidental beneficiary only.
20.NO AUTHORITY TO BIND CITY TO CONTRACTS: The Contractor lacks any authority 
to bind the City on any contractual matters.  Final approval of all contractual matters that 
purport to obligate the City must be executed by the City in accordance with the City’s 
Charter and the Denver Revised Municipal Code. 
21. AGREEMENT AS COMPLETE INTEGRATION-AMENDMENTS: This Agreement, 
including its Exhibits and any duly executed Task Orders and amendments, is the complete 
integration of all understandings between the Parties as to the subject matter of this 
Agreement. No prior, contemporaneous, or subsequent addition, deletion, or other 
modification has any force or effect, unless embodied in a written amendment to this 
Agreement executed by authorized representatives of both Parties. No oral representation 
by any officer or employee of the City at variance with the terms of this Agreement or any 
written amendment to this Agreement will have any force or effect or bind the City.
22. SEVERABILITY: Except for the provisions of this Agreement requiring appropriation of 
funds and limiting the total amount payable by the City, if a court of competent jurisdiction 
finds any provision of this Agreement or any portion of it to be invalid, illegal, or 
unenforceable, the validity of the remaining portions or provisions will not be affected, if the 
intent of the Parties can be fulfilled.
23. CONFLICT OF INTEREST: No employee of the City shall have any personal or beneficial 
interest in the Deliverables described in this Agreement.  The Contractor shall not hire, or 
contract for services with, any employee or officer of the City that would be in violation of 
the City’s Code of Ethics, D.R.M.C. § 2-51 et seq., or the Charter §§ 1.2.8, 1.2.9, and 1.2.12. 
The Contractor shall not engage in any transaction, activity or conduct that would result in 
a conflict of interest under this Agreement. The Contractor represents that it has disclosed 
all current or potential conflicts of interest.  A conflict of interest shall include transactions, 
activities or conduct that would affect the judgment, actions or work of the Contractor by 
placing the Contractor’s own interests, or the interests of any party with whom the 
Contractor has a contractual arrangement, in conflict with those of the City.  The City, in its 
sole discretion, will determine the existence of a conflict of interest and may terminate this 
Agreement in the event it determines a conflict exists, after it has given the Contractor 
written notice describing the conflict. 
24. NOTICES:  All notices, demands, requests, or other communications required or permitted 
under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed given and effective: (i) 
immediately upon delivery if sent by email to the email addresses most recently provided by 
each Party, provided that the sender receives confirmation of delivery or a read receipt; (ii) 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 22 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 22 of 27
one (1) business day after deposit with a nationally recognized overnight courier service; or 
(iii) three (3) business days after deposit in the United States mail, postage prepaid, certified 
or registered mail, return receipt requested. All notices to the Contractor shall be sent to the 
email address most recently provided by the Contractor and to address listed in the caption 
of this Agreement. All notices to the City shall be sent to the email address most recently 
provided by the City and to: Chief Information Officer, Denver Technology Services, 201 
West Colfax Avenue, Dept. 301, Denver, Colorado 80202; with a copy to: Denver City 
Attorney’s Office, 1437 Bannock St., Room 353, Denver, Colorado 80202. If email delivery 
fails or is rejected, the sending Party shall promptly send notice by overnight courier or 
certified mail to the physical addresses specified above. Either Party may update its email 
address or other contact information by providing written notice to the other Party in 
accordance with this provision, which change shall be effective upon receipt.
25. DISPUTES: The Parties shall attempt to resolve disputes arising out of or relating to this 
Agreement through the following escalation process before resorting to formal proceedings: 
(i) the designated representatives of each Party shall meet and confer in good faith to resolve 
the dispute within fifteen (15) business days of written notice identifying the dispute; (ii) if 
unresolved, the dispute shall be escalated to the CIO (or designee) and the Contractor’s 
senior executive with authority to bind the Contractor, who shall meet and confer within an 
additional fifteen (15) business days. If the dispute remains unresolved after exhaustion of 
this escalation process, either Party may proceed to administrative hearing pursuant to 
D.R.M.C. § 56-106(b)-(f). For the purposes of that administrative procedure, the City official 
rendering a final determination shall be the CIO as defined in this Agreement. Nothing in 
this Section shall prevent either Party from seeking equitable relief as provided in Section 
9.6. In the event of a dispute between the Parties, the Contractor will continue to perform its 
obligations under this Agreement during the resolution of the dispute until this Agreement 
is terminated in accordance with its terms.
26. NO DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT:   In connection with the performance of 
Work under this Agreement, the Contractor may not refuse to hire, discharge, promote, 
demote, or discriminate in matters of compensation against any person otherwise qualified, 
solely because of race, color, religion, national origin, ethnicity, citizenship, immigration 
status, gender, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, marital status, 
source of income, military status, protective hairstyle, or disability. The Contractor shall 
insert the foregoing provision in all subcontracts. 
27. LEGAL AUTHORITY: The Contractor represents and warrants that it possesses the legal 
authority, pursuant to any proper, appropriate, and official motion, resolution or action 
passed or taken, to enter into this Agreement.  Each person signing and executing this 
Agreement on behalf of the Contractor represents and warrants that he has been fully 
authorized by the Contractor to execute this Agreement on behalf of the Contractor and to 
validly and legally bind the Contractor to all the terms, performances and provisions of this 
Agreement.  The City shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to either temporarily suspend 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 23 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 23 of 27
or permanently terminate this Agreement if there is a dispute as to the legal authority of 
either the Contractor or the person signing this Agreement to enter into this Agreement.
28. LITIGATION REPORTING: If the Contractor is served with a pleading or other 
document in connection with an action before a court or other administrative decision 
making body, and such pleading or document relates to this Agreement or may affect the 
Contractor’s ability to perform its obligations under this Agreement, the Contractor shall, 
within 10 days after being served, notify the City of such action and deliver copies of such 
pleading or document, unless protected by law, to the City. 
29. LICENSES, PERMITS, AND OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS: The Contractor shall 
secure, prior to the Term, and shall maintain, at its sole expense, all licenses, certifications, 
rights, permits, and other authorizations required to perform its obligations under this 
Agreement. This Section is a material part of this Agreement.
30.NO CONSTRUCTION AGAINST DRAFTING PARTY: The Parties and their respective 
counsel have had the opportunity to review this Agreement, and this Agreement will not be 
construed against any party merely because any provisions of this Agreement were prepared 
by a particular party. 
31. ORDER OF PRECEDENCE: In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the 
provisions of this Agreement—including the body, Exhibits, attachments, or any Task 
Orders, invoices, or quotes issued by the Contractor—the following order of precedence shall 
apply, with higher-ranked documents controlling over lower-ranked documents: first, 
Exhibit E (CJIS Security Addendum); second, the body of this Agreement; third, Exhibit 
C (Information Technology Provisions) and Exhibit D (Department of Public Safety 
Information Technology Provisions); fourth, Exhibit A (Statement of Work); fifth, Exhibit 
B (Certificate of Insurance); sixth, Exhibit F, Contractor’s Master Services and Purchasing 
Agreement, and finally, duly executed Task Orders, in reverse chronological order. For 
clarity, no terms contained in any Task Order, invoice, quote, embedded hyperlink, 
referenced document, or other supplemental material shall be binding on the City or modify 
the legal, financial, or material terms of this Agreement unless expressly agreed to by both 
Parties in a written amendment executed by authorized representatives of the Parties. Order 
Forms and Task Orders may supplement this Agreement solely with respect to specific 
products, services, quantities, pricing, or delivery terms, and shall not override any other 
provisions herein. As among Exhibits of equal rank, if a conflict cannot be reconciled 
through harmonious construction, the provision imposing the greater obligation on the 
Contractor or the higher standard of security shall govern.
31.1.
Scope of Incorporation and Superseded Provisions
31.1.1.
Exhibit F is incorporated solely for the purpose of identifying the specific 
devices, services, subscription terms, and technical configurations applicable to 
the ALPR system procured under this Agreement. Exhibit F does not alter, 
expand, or supersede any legal, financial, or material term of this Agreement. The 
following Exhibit F provisions conflict with this Agreement and are expressly 
superseded and have no force or effect:
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 24 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 24 of 27
31.1.1.1. § 14.1 (Effect of Termination). The MSRP differential clawback, fee 
continuity obligation, and device return restriction in Exhibit F § 14.1 are 
superseded in their entirety by § 6 of this Agreement. No early termination fee, 
MSRP differential, bundled pricing clawback, or penalty of any kind is owed by 
the City upon any termination of this Agreement, regardless of the basis for 
termination or the pricing at which devices were procured.
31.1.1.2. § 5 (Returns — All Sales Final). The no-refund policy in Exhibit F § 5 does 
not apply to prepaid subscription or license fees, which are governed solely by § 
6.2 of this Agreement.
31.1.1.3. ACEIP Appendix (Customer Experience Improvement Program). The City 
does not consent to and expressly opts out of the Axon Customer Experience 
Improvement Program in all forms, including ACEIP Basic and ACEIP Custom. 
Contractor may not use City Data, Customer Content, or Non-Content Data for 
product development, AI training, model improvement, or any purpose outside 
the direct performance of this Agreement. This opt-out is effective as of the 
Effective Date and does not require a separate email submission by the City.
31.1.1.4. § 12 (IP Rights) and Cloud Services Appendix § 6 (Privacy — Non-Content 
Data). Axon's IP ownership and data use rights under Exhibit F §§ 12 and 
Cloud Services Appendix § 6 do not extend to City Data, Deliverables, or any 
work product governed by this Agreement. Axon's right to use Non-Content 
Data for product development and improvement does not apply to any data that 
constitutes City Data under this Agreement.
31.1.1.5. § 10 (Design Changes). Axon's right to make unilateral design or feature 
changes without notice is subordinate to Exhibit A and the change 
management requirements of Exhibit D. Any change that materially affects the 
Specifications or the City's operational use of the ALPR system requires prior 
written notice to the City and the City's written approval before implementation.
31.1.1.6. ALPR Appendix § 21 (Acceptance Checklist — Deemed Acceptance). The 
seven-day deemed acceptance provision is modified. The City shall have thirty 
(30) calendar days following installation completion to review and provide 
written acceptance of ALPR deliverables. Silence or non-response shall not 
constitute acceptance.
31.1.1.7. § 3 (Taxes). The City and County of Denver is a tax-exempt municipal entity. 
Exhibit F § 3 is superseded by § 4.5 of this Agreement. Axon shall not invoice 
the City for sales tax or similar transactional taxes.
31.1.1.8. § 6.2 (Warranty Disclaimer — AS IS). The "AS IS" disclaimer applicable to 
software and Axon Cloud Services in Exhibit F § 6.2 does not apply to any 
Work, Deliverables, or Services performed under this Agreement, which are 
governed by §§ 2.2 and 10 hereof. No disclaimer of warranty in Exhibit F limits 
or qualifies the Contractor's indemnification obligations under § 10.1.
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 25 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 25 of 27
31.1.1.9. § 37 (Advertising) / Axon Aid Appendix. Any marketing consent or public 
announcement authorization contained in Exhibit F or its appendices is 
superseded by § 37 of this Agreement. Axon may not publicly reference the City, 
this Agreement, or the City's participation in any Axon program without prior 
written City approval.
32. SURVIVAL OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS: The terms of this Agreement, including any 
Exhibits and attachments, that by reasonable implication contemplate continued 
performance, rights, or compliance beyond the expiration or termination of this Agreement 
shall survive such expiration or termination and shall remain enforceable. Without limiting 
the foregoing, the Contractor’s obligations to provide insurance coverage and to indemnify 
the City shall survive for a period equal to the duration of all applicable statutes of limitation, 
plus any additional time reasonably necessary to resolve any claims, disputes, or legal 
proceedings initiated within that period. Any grant of property rights or intellectual property 
rights to the City that, by its terms, extends beyond the term of this Agreement shall remain 
in effect after expiration or termination, except in the event of termination due to the City’s 
breach of its payment obligations. Any warranties made available to the City, whether 
provided under this Agreement or otherwise, shall survive expiration or termination of this 
Agreement for the full duration specified in the warranty documentation or as permitted by 
applicable law. Upon expiration or termination of this Agreement, in whole or in part, the 
Contractor’s obligations regarding the return and destruction of City Data shall be governed 
by Exhibit C.
33. INUREMENT: The rights and obligations of the Parties herein set forth shall inure to the 
benefit of and be binding upon the Parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns 
permitted under this Agreement.
34. TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE: The Parties agree that in the performance of the terms, 
conditions, and requirements of this Agreement, time is of the essence.
35. FORCE MAJEURE: Neither Party shall be liable for failure to perform its obligations 
under this Agreement to the extent such failure results from causes beyond the Party’s 
reasonable control, including war, terrorism, fire, strike, riot, insurrection, natural disaster, 
epidemic or pandemic, governmental order or regulation, or the complete or partial 
shutdown of critical infrastructure or manufacturing (each, an “Excusable Delay”). A Party 
claiming an Excusable Delay shall: (i) notify the other Party in writing within five (5) 
business days of becoming aware of the event, describing the nature, expected duration, and 
affected obligations; (ii) use commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate the impact and 
resume performance as promptly as practicable; and (iii) provide periodic updates on the 
status of the Excusable Delay. An Excusable Delay shall not excuse the obligation to make 
payments for Work already performed or accepted. If an Excusable Delay continues for more 
than ninety (90) consecutive days, the non-delayed Party may terminate this Agreement, or 
the affected portion thereof, upon thirty (30) days’ written notice without liability to the 
other Party, except for payment for Work satisfactorily completed and accepted prior to 
termination. For the avoidance of doubt, an Excusable Delay shall not include the 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 26 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 26 of 27
Contractor’s inability to hire or retain personnel, financial hardship, or loss of 
subcontractors.
36. PARAGRAPH HEADINGS: The captions and headings set forth herein are for 
convenience of reference only and shall not be construed to define or limit the terms and 
provisions hereof.
37. ADVERTISING AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE: The Contractor shall not include any 
reference to this Agreement or to Work performed pursuant to this Agreement in any of the 
Contractor’s advertising or public relations materials without first obtaining the City’ written 
approval.  Any oral presentation or written materials related to Work performed under this 
Agreement will be limited to Deliverables that have been accepted by the City. The 
Contractor shall notify the City in advance of the date and time of any presentation. Nothing 
in this provision precludes the transmittal of any information to City officials.
38. EXTERNAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS DISCLAIMER: Notwithstanding anything 
to the contrary herein, the City shall not be subject to any provision including any terms, 
conditions, or agreements, and links thereto, appearing on the Contractor’s or a 
Subcontractor’s website, forms, or any provision incorporated into any click-through or 
online agreements related to the Work unless that provision is specifically incorporated into 
this Agreement.  
39. PROHIBITED TERMS: Any term included in this Agreement that requires the City to 
indemnify or hold the Contractor harmless; requires the City to agree to binding arbitration; 
limits the Contractor’s liability for damages resulting from death, bodily injury, or damage 
to tangible property; requires payment for any obligation where there has not been an 
appropriation; requires venue and jurisdiction outside of the Colorado; or seeks to modify 
the order of precedence, as stated in the main body of this Agreement; or that conflicts with 
this provision in any way shall be void ab initio. Except as otherwise provided for certain 
intergovernmental agreements, all contracts entered into by the City shall be governed by 
the laws of the State of Colorado, regardless of any conflicting provision or choice-of-law 
term contained therein.
40.USE, POSSESSION OR SALE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS: To the extent applicable, 
the Contractor shall cooperate and comply with the provisions of Executive Order 94 and 
Attachment A thereto concerning the use, possession or sale of alcohol or drugs. Violation 
of these provisions or refusal to cooperate with implementation of the policy can result in 
the City barring the Contractor from City facilities or participating in City operations.
41. CITY EXECUTION OF AGREEMENT: This Agreement is expressly subject to and shall 
not be or become effective or binding on the City until it has been fully executed by all 
signatories of the City and County of Denver.
42. COUNTERPARTS OF THIS AGREEMENT: This Agreement may be executed in 
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original of this Agreement.
43. ELECTRONIC SIGNATURES AND ELECTRONIC RECORDS: The Contractor 
consents to the use of electronic signatures by the City.  This Agreement, and any other 
documents requiring a signature hereunder, may be signed electronically by the City in the 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 27 ---
City Contract No. 202683606
Page 27 of 27
manner specified by the City.  The Parties agree not to deny the legal effect or enforceability 
of this Agreement solely because it is in electronic form or because an electronic record was 
used in its formation.  The Parties agree not to object to the admissibility of this Agreement 
in the form of an electronic record, or a paper copy of an electronic document, or a paper 
copy of a document bearing an electronic signature, on the ground that it is an electronic 
record or electronic signature or that it is not in its original form or is not an original.
44. ATTACHED EXHIBITS INCORPORATED: The following attached exhibits are hereby 
incorporated into and made a material part of this Agreement: Exhibit A, Statement of 
Work and Quote Q-801736-46091LJ; Exhibit B, Certificate of Insurance; Exhibit C, 
Information Technology Provisions; Exhibit D, Department of Public Safety Information 
Technology Provisions; Exhibit E, Criminal Justice Information Services Security 
Addendum; and Exhibit F, Contractor’s Master Services and Purchasing Agreement.
REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 28 ---
Contract Control Number:
POLIC-202683606-00
Contractor Name:
AXON ENTERPRISE INC
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have set their hands and affixed their seals at
Denver, Colorado as of:
SEAL
CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER:
ATTEST:
By:
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
REGISTERED AND COUNTERSIGNED:
Attorney for the City and County of Denver
By:
By:
By:
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 29 ---
Contract Control Number:
POLIC-202683606-00
Contractor Name:
AXON ENTERPRISE INC
     By: _______________________________________
     Name: _____________________________________
    (please print)
     Title: _____________________________________
    (please print)
                 ATTEST: [if required]
     By: _______________________________________
     Name: _____________________________________
    (please print)
     Title: _____________________________________
    (please print)
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536
Robert Driscoll
VP, Deputy General Counsel

--- page 30 ---
Axon Enterprise, Inc. 
17800 N 85th St 
Scottsdale, Arizona 85255 
United States 
VAT: 86-0741227 
Domestic:(800) 978-2737 
International: +1.800.978.2737 
EXHIBIT A 
Q-801736-46091LJ 
Account Number: 108689 
Payment Terms: N30 
Mode of Delivery: AUTO-GND 
Credit/Debit Amount: $0.00 
Quote Summary
Discount Summary 
Page 1
Q-801736-46091LJ 
Issued: 03/10/2026 
Quote Expiration: 
Estimated Contract Start Date: 06/01/2026 
SHIP TO 
BILL TO 
Denver Police Department - CO 
1331 Cherokee St 
Denver, 
CO 
80204-2720 
USA 
Denver Police Department - CO 
PO Box 40098 
Denver 
CO 
80204-0098 
USA 
Email:  
SALES REPRESENTATIVE 
PRIMARY CONTACT 
Ben Rubke 
Phone: +1 4153149573 
Email: brubke@axon.com 
Fax: 
Cliff Barnes 
Phone: (720) 468-0811 
Email: clifford.barnes@denvergov.org 
Fax: 
Program Length 
12 Months 
TOTAL COST 
$149,999.00 
ESTIMATED TOTAL W/ TAX 
$149,999.00 
Average Savings Per Year 
$279,951.00 
TOTAL SAVINGS 
$279,951.00 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 31 ---
Payment Summary 
Page 2
Q-801736-46091LJ 
Date
Subtotal
Tax
Total 
May 2026
$149,999.00
$0.00
$149,999.00 
Total
$149,999.00
$0.00
$149,999.00 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 32 ---
Quote Unbundled Price: 
Quote List Price: 
Quote Subtotal: 
Pricing 
All deliverables are detailed in Delivery Schedules section lower in proposal 
$429,950.00 
$429,950.00 
$149,999.00 
Delivery Schedule 
Hardware 
Software 
Services  
Bundle
Item
Description
QTY 
Page 3
Q-801736-46091LJ 
Item  
Description
Qty
Term
Unbundled
List Price
Net Price
Subtotal
Tax
Total 
A la Carte Hardware 
102538
AXON OUTPOST - TOP MOUNT END CAP - STANDARD
50
$100.00
$50.00
$2,500.00
$0.00
$2,500.00 
102488
AXON OUTPOST - SOLAR PANEL - 100W
50
$145.00
$50.00
$2,500.00
$0.00
$2,500.00 
EXTENDED
50
$950.00
$100.00
$5,000.00
$0.00
$5,000.00 
102737
AXON OUTPOST - STANDARD SOLAR HARDWARE KIT
50
$400.00
$199.98
$9,999.00
$0.00
$9,999.00 
102032
AXON OUTPOST - CAMERA
50
$1,250.00
$200.00
$10,000.00
$0.00
$10,000.00 
102552
AXON OUTPOST - POLE - STANDARD
50
$1,495.00
$200.00
$10,000.00
$0.00
$10,000.00 
A la Carte Software 
102142
AXON VEHICLE INTELLIGENCE - ALPR LICENSE
50
12
$182.00
$166.67
$100,000.00
$0.00
$100,000.00 
A la Carte Services 
102136
AXON OUTPOST - STANDARD INSTALLATION
50
$875.00
$200.00
$10,000.00
$0.00
$10,000.00 
A la Carte Warranties 
EXTENSION
50
1
$1,200.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00 
Total 
$149,999.00 $0.00 $149,999.00 
Bundle
Item
Description 
QTY 
Shipping Location
Estimated Delivery Date 
A la Carte
102032
AXON OUTPOST - CAMERA
50
1
05/01/2026 
A la Carte
102488
AXON OUTPOST - SOLAR PANEL - 100W
50
1
05/01/2026 
A la Carte
102538
AXON OUTPOST - TOP MOUNT END CAP - STANDARD
50
1
05/01/2026 
A la Carte
102543
AXON OUTPOST - BATTERY & CHARGER ENCLOSURE - 
A la Carte
102552
AXON OUTPOST - POLE - STANDARD
50
1
05/01/2026 
A la Carte
102737
AXON OUTPOST - STANDARD SOLAR HARDWARE KIT
50
1
05/01/2026 
Bundle
Item
Description
QTY
Estimated Start Date
Estimated End Date 
A la Carte
102142
AXON VEHICLE INTELLIGENCE - ALPR LICENSE
50
06/01/2026
05/31/2027 
102543
AXON OUTPOST - BATTERY & CHARGER ENCLOSURE -  
102703
AXON OUTPOST - WARRANTY - VANDALISM/ACCIDENT  
EXTENDED
50
1
05/01/2026 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 33 ---
Services 
Warranties 
Page 4
Q-801736-46091LJ 
Bundle
Item
Description
QTY 
A la Carte
102136
AXON OUTPOST - STANDARD INSTALLATION
50 
Bundle
Item
Description 
QTY 
Estimated Start Date
Estimated End Date 
A la Carte
102703
AXON OUTPOST - WARRANTY - VANDALISM/ACCIDENT 
EXTENSION
50
05/01/2027
05/31/2027 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 34 ---
Shipping Locations 
Payment Details 
Page 5
Q-801736-46091LJ 
Location Number
Street
City
State
Zip
Country 
1
1331 Cherokee St
Denver
CO
80204-2720
USA 
May 2026 
Invoice Plan 
Item 
Description 
Qty 
Subtotal 
Tax Total 
Upfront
102032
AXON OUTPOST - CAMERA
50
$10,000.00
$0.00
$10,000.00 
Upfront
102136
AXON OUTPOST - STANDARD INSTALLATION
50
$10,000.00
$0.00
$10,000.00 
Upfront
102142
AXON VEHICLE INTELLIGENCE - ALPR LICENSE
50
$100,000.00
$0.00
$100,000.00 
Upfront
102488
AXON OUTPOST - SOLAR PANEL - 100W
50
$2,500.00
$0.00
$2,500.00 
Upfront
102538
AXON OUTPOST - TOP MOUNT END CAP - STANDARD
50
$2,500.00
$0.00
$2,500.00 
Upfront
102543
AXON OUTPOST - BATTERY & CHARGER ENCLOSURE - EXTENDED
50
$5,000.00
$0.00
$5,000.00 
Upfront
102552
AXON OUTPOST - POLE - STANDARD
50
$10,000.00
$0.00
$10,000.00 
Upfront
102737
AXON OUTPOST - STANDARD SOLAR HARDWARE KIT
50
$9,999.00
$0.00
$9,999.00 
Invoice Upon Fulfillment
102703
AXON OUTPOST - WARRANTY - VANDALISM/ACCIDENT EXTENSION
50
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00 
Total 
$149,999.00 
$0.00 $149,999.00 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 35 ---
Tax is estimated based on rates applicable at date of quote and subject to change at time of invoicing. If a tax exemption certificate should be applied, please submit 
prior to invoicing.  
Standard Terms and Conditions 
Axon Enterprise Inc. Sales Terms and Conditions 
Acceptance of Terms: 
Any purchase order issued in response to this Quote is subject solely to the terms and conditions attached to this Quote. 
Exceptions to Standard Terms and Conditions 
Rewrite Estimates 
Estimated Amounts and Contract Terminations. Any amounts stated as due under existing or terminated contracts — including contract transfer balances carried forward to 
new or pending contracts — are estimates based on payments received as of the calculation date. These estimates may be adjusted if new contracts are not executed on the  
anticipated dates or if expected payments are not made.  
Page 6
Q-801736-46091LJ 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 36 ---
Refresh Shipment Timing 
Technology Assurance Plan (TAP) Refresh Prior to Renewal. For Customers with expiring agreements that include TAP refresh rights, Axon may, in its discretion, ship 
refresh hardware under the existing contract while renewal or replacement agreements are in progress. Any such shipments will be deemed made under the terms of the  
existing contract until the new contract is fully executed, after which any applicable updates, fees, or adjustments will apply.   
Shipment Timing 
Shipment Variance. Estimated shipment dates are provided for planning purposes only and are not guarantees. Axon may ship hardware before or after the estimated  
shipment date, and failure to meet an estimated shipment date will not, by itself, constitute a breach, provided Axon uses commercially reasonable efforts to meet estimated 
shipment dates.   
Page 7
Q-801736-46091LJ 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 37 ---
Holder Identifier : 
7777777707070700077761616045571110767716006305546207542136663407311072751576047321020726155552176540207763530221625550070240237761015660760411134663565507263131563104423076727242035772000777777707000707007 
7777777707070700073525677115456000733541442133502107371100074331470071233773065230400702233734207200107132337342162111071233272420731100702323625317200007122237352072110077756163351765540777777707000707007
Certificate No :
 570114905955 
CERTIFICATE OF LIABILITY INSURANCE
 DATE(MM/DD/YYYY)        
 08/12/2025
IMPORTANT: If the certificate holder is an ADDITIONAL INSURED, the policy(ies) must have ADDITIONAL INSURED provisions or be endorsed. 
If SUBROGATION IS WAIVED, subject to   the terms and conditions of the policy, certain policies may require an endorsement. A statement on 
this certificate does not confer rights to the certificate holder in lieu of such endorsement(s).
THIS CERTIFICATE IS ISSUED AS A MATTER OF INFORMATION ONLY AND CONFERS NO RIGHTS UPON THE CERTIFICATE HOLDER. THIS 
CERTIFICATE 
DOES 
NOT 
AFFIRMATIVELY 
OR 
NEGATIVELY 
AMEND, 
EXTEND 
OR 
ALTER 
THE 
COVERAGE 
AFFORDED 
BY 
THE 
POLICIES 
BELOW. 
THIS 
CERTIFICATE 
OF 
INSURANCE 
DOES 
NOT 
CONSTITUTE 
A 
CONTRACT 
BETWEEN 
THE 
ISSUING 
INSURER(S), 
AUTHORIZED 
REPRESENTATIVE OR PRODUCER, AND THE CERTIFICATE HOLDER.
PRODUCER
Aon Risk Insurance Services West, Inc.
Phoenix AZ Office
4300 East Camelback Rd.
Suite 460
Phoenix AZ 85018 USA 
PHONE
(A/C. No. Ext):
E-MAIL
ADDRESS:
INSURER(S) AFFORDING COVERAGE
NAIC #
8662837122
INSURED
11991
National Casualty Company
INSURER A:
41297
Scottsdale Ins Company
INSURER B:
INSURER C:
INSURER D:
INSURER E:
INSURER F:
FAX
(A/C. No.):
(800) 363-0105
CONTACT
NAME:
Axon Enterprise, Inc.
17800 N. 85th Street
Scottsdale AZ 85255 USA 
COVERAGES
CERTIFICATE NUMBER:
570114905955
REVISION NUMBER:
THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT THE POLICIES OF INSURANCE LISTED BELOW HAVE BEEN ISSUED TO THE INSURED NAMED ABOVE FOR THE POLICY PERIOD INDICATED. 
NOTWITHSTANDING ANY REQUIREMENT, TERM OR CONDITION OF ANY CONTRACT OR OTHER DOCUMENT WITH RESPECT TO WHICH THIS CERTIFICATE MAY BE ISSUED OR MAY 
PERTAIN, THE INSURANCE AFFORDED BY THE POLICIES DESCRIBED HEREIN IS SUBJECT TO ALL THE TERMS, EXCLUSIONS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH POLICIES. LIMITS SHOWN MAY 
HAVE BEEN REDUCED BY PAID CLAIMS.
Limits shown are as requested
POLICY EXP 
(MM/DD/YYYY)
POLICY EFF 
(MM/DD/YYYY)
SUBR
WVD
INSR 
LTR
ADDL 
INSD
POLICY NUMBER 
 TYPE OF INSURANCE
LIMITS
COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
CLAIMS-MADE
OCCUR
POLICY
LOC
EACH OCCURRENCE
DAMAGE TO RENTED 
PREMISES (Ea occurrence)
MED EXP (Any one person)
PERSONAL & ADV INJURY
GENERAL AGGREGATE
PRODUCTS - COMP/OP AGG
X
X
X
X
GEN'L AGGREGATE LIMIT APPLIES PER: 
$2,000,000
$1,000,000
$50,000
$2,000,000
$4,000,000
Excluded
see Prod Liab info att'd
A
08/08/2025 08/01/2026
Y
Y
SIR applies per policy terms & conditions
NGO0001949
PRO-
JECT
OTHER:
Xcl Prod/Comp Ops
AUTOMOBILE LIABILITY
ANY AUTO
OWNED 
AUTOS ONLY
SCHEDULED
 AUTOS
HIRED AUTOS 
ONLY
NON-OWNED 
AUTOS ONLY
BODILY INJURY ( Per person)
PROPERTY DAMAGE
(Per accident)
X
BODILY INJURY (Per accident)
$1,000,000
A
08/08/2025 08/01/2026
Y
Y
COMBINED SINGLE LIMIT
(Ea accident)
NGO0001948
EXCESS LIAB
X
OCCUR 
CLAIMS-MADE
AGGREGATE
EACH OCCURRENCE
DED 
$10,000,000
$10,000,000
$10,000
08/08/2025
UMBRELLA LIAB
B
Y
08/01/2026
Y
UNS0000106
RETENTION
X
X
E.L. DISEASE-EA EMPLOYEE
E.L. DISEASE-POLICY LIMIT
E.L. EACH ACCIDENT
$1,000,000
X
OTH-
ER
PER STATUTE
A
08/08/2025 08/08/2026
$1,000,000
Y / N
(Mandatory in NH)
ANY PROPRIETOR / PARTNER / EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER/MEMBER EXCLUDED?
N / A
Y
N
WORKERS COMPENSATION AND 
EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY
If yes, describe under 
DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS below
$1,000,000
WCC600103A
DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS / LOCATIONS / VEHICLES (ACORD 101, Additional Remarks Schedule, may be attached if more space is required)
Certificate Holder is included as Additional Insured in accordance with the policy provisions of the Automobile Liability, 
Excess Liability and General Liability policies. Automobile Liability, Excess Liability and General Liability policies 
evidenced herein is Primary to other insurance available to an Additional Insured, but only in accordance with the policy's 
provisions. Automobile Liability, Excess Liability and General Liability policies evidenced herein is Non-Contributory to other
insurance available to an Additional Insured, but only in accordance with the policy's provisions. A Waiver of Subrogation is 
granted in favor of Certificate Holder in accordance with the policy provisions of the Automobile Liability, Excess Liability, 
General Liability and Workers Compensation policies.
CANCELLATION
CERTIFICATE HOLDER
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
City and County of Denver
201 W. Colfax Ave.
Denver CO 80202 USA 
ACORD 25 (2016/03)
©1988-2015 ACORD CORPORATION. All rights reserved
The ACORD name and logo are registered marks of ACORD
SHOULD ANY OF THE ABOVE DESCRIBED POLICIES BE CANCELLED BEFORE THE EXPIRATION
DATE THEREOF, NOTICE WILL BE DELIVERED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE POLICY PROVISIONS.
EXHIBIT B
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 38 ---
Products Liability Schedule
AGENCY CUSTOMER ID:
ADDITIONAL  REMARKS SCHEDULE
LOC #:
 ADDITIONAL REMARKS
THIS ADDITIONAL REMARKS FORM IS A SCHEDULE TO ACORD FORM,
FORM NUMBER:
ACORD 25
FORM TITLE:
Certificate of Liability Insurance
EFFECTIVE DATE:
CARRIER
NAIC CODE
POLICY NUMBER
NAMED INSURED
AGENCY
See Certificate Number:
See Certificate Number:
Aon Risk Insurance Services West, Inc.
 570000007117 
 570114905955 
 570114905955 
Page _ of _
Axon Enterprise, Inc.
Products/Completed Operations Coverage
8/8/2025-8/1/2026:
Policy #034064091
Lexington Insurance Company
Claims Made Coverage Form - Products Liability  
$15,000,000 Each Occurrence Limit 
$15,000,000 Products/Completed Operations Aggregate Limit 
$  5,000,000 Per Occurrence Self Insured Retention   
Policy #034064092
Lexington Insurance Company
Occurrence Coverage Form - Products Liability 
$15,000,000 Each Occurrence Limit 
$15,000,000 Products/Completed Operations Aggregate Limit 
$  5,000,000 Per Occurrence Self Insured Retention
ACORD 101 (2008/01)
© 2008 ACORD CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
The ACORD name and logo are registered marks of ACORD
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 39 ---
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 40 ---
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 1 of 9
EXHIBIT C, INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
This Exhibit regarding Information Technology Provisions (this “Exhibit”) is a material 
part of the Agreement between the Parties to which this Exhibit is attached. In addition to the 
requirements of the main body of this Agreement, the Contractor shall protect the City’s 
information technology resources and City Data in accordance with this Exhibit. All provisions 
of this Exhibit that refer to the Contractor shall apply equally to any Subcontractor performing 
work in connection with this Agreement. Unless the context clearly requires a distinction 
between the Agreement and this Exhibit, all references to “Agreement” shall include this Exhibit. 
Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Exhibit have the meanings assigned to them in the 
Framework Agreement.
1. TECHNOLOGY SERVICES SPECIFICATIONS
1.1. Identity and Access Management
1.1.1. User ID Credentials: Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account 
credentials shall be restricted, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access 
management and in accordance with established policies and procedures, as follows:
1.1.1.1.
Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and 
information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation);
1.1.1.2.
Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through 
revocation;
1.1.1.3.
Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when 
feasible; and
1.1.1.4.
Adherence 
to 
industry 
acceptable 
and/or 
regulatory 
compliant 
authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-
factor, expirable, non-shared authentication secrets).
1.1.2. IdM Integration: The City’s Identity and Access Management (“IdM”) system is 
an integrated infrastructure solution that enables many of the City’s services and 
online resources to operate more efficiently, effectively, and securely. All new and 
proposed applications must utilize the authentication and authorization functions 
and components of IdM. Strong authentication is required for privileged accounts or 
accounts with access to sensitive information. This technical requirement applies to 
all solutions regardless of where the application is hosted.
1.2. Software Updates and Maintenance
1.2.1. Updates & Upgrades: During the Term, the Contractor shall provide the City 
with all updates and upgrades to the On-Premise Software and SaaS without 
additional charge, consistent with what the Contractor provides to its customers 
generally. Upon delivery, upgrades become part of the licensed software and are 
subject to all terms of this Agreement.
1.2.2. Compatibility with Third-Party Software: The Contractor shall ensure that 
its Work remains compatible with current, generally available versions of any third-
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 41 ---
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 2 of 9
party software necessary for the Work to function as intended. The Contractor shall 
complete any necessary updates to maintain such compatibility within a 
commercially reasonable timeframe following new releases of such third-party 
software. If the Contractor’s Work becomes incompatible with current third-party 
software versions, the City may, in its discretion, suspend use of the incompatible 
Work without penalty until compatibility is restored. The Contractor shall bear all 
costs of maintaining third-party software compatibility.
1.2.3. Supported Releases: The Contractor shall maintain all third-party software 
used in the development, execution, or delivery of the Work on vendor-supported 
releases throughout the Term, including all code libraries, frameworks, components, 
and other products, whether commercial, open-source, or closed-source. This 
requirement extends to any Contractor-controlled systems operating on the City’s 
network, including applications, firewalls, and physical or virtual appliances. The 
Contractor shall not require the City to use end-of-life or unsupported software 
versions to maintain compatibility with the Contractor’s Work.
1.3. License and Fee Management
1.3.1. Adjustment of Licenses: The City may increase or decrease the number of 
licenses at each anniversary date by providing written notice to the Contractor at 
least sixty (60) days prior. The Contractor shall adjust invoicing accordingly based 
on the unit price per license specified in this Agreement.
1.3.2. Fee Accrual: Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, fees for 
maintenance, support, SaaS subscriptions, or similar ongoing services shall not 
accrue, and no subscription periods shall commence, before the City’s Acceptance or 
first production use of the Work, whichever occurs first. For purposes of this Section, 
“first production use” does not include any pilot, beta, trial, testing, or sandbox 
deployment.
2. DATA GOVERNANCE AND OWNERSHIP
2.1.          Data Ownership and Usage Rights: Unless otherwise required by law, the City 
has exclusive ownership of all City Data, including all City Data created, processed, or 
derived in connection with this Agreement. The Parties recognize and agree that the 
Contractor is a bailee for hire with respect to City Data. The Contractor’s possession and 
use of City Data is solely on the City’s behalf and limited to performing its obligations 
under this Agreement. The City retains the right to access and retrieve City Data at any 
time during the Term. This Agreement grants neither Party any rights to the other Party’s 
data, content, or intellectual property except as expressly stated herein.
2.2.
Data Use Restrictions: The Contractor shall not use City Data for any purpose 
other than performing its obligations under this Agreement, except as expressly 
authorized in writing by the City or as required by applicable law. There will be no shared 
network use of City Data and any sharing of such data remains exclusively within the 
discretion and control of the City. Prohibited activities further include, without 
limitation: (i) Data mining, analysis, or processing of City Data for any purpose other 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 42 ---
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 3 of 9
than performing the Contractor’s obligations under this Agreement; and (ii) Sharing, 
selling, licensing, or otherwise disclosing City Data to third parties for purposes 
unrelated to this Agreement.
2.3.
Artificial Intelligence Systems: The Contractor shall not use City Data to train, 
improve, or develop any artificial intelligence, machine learning models, algorithms, or 
automated decision-making systems without express written authorization from the 
City. If the Work involves use of any high-risk artificial intelligence system as defined in 
Colo. Rev. Stat. § 6-1-1701(9), the Contractor shall comply with all requirements of Colo. 
Rev. Stat. § 6-1-1701 et seq., including exercising reasonable care to protect against 
algorithmic discrimination and ensuring appropriate human oversight, documentation, 
and transparency for consequential decisions.
2.4.
Data Lifecycle Management
2.4.1. Backup and Preservation: The Contractor shall maintain regular backups of 
all City Data using industry-standard procedures and security measures. The 
Contractor shall preserve City Data for litigation holds as requested by the City and 
shall not obstruct the City's ability to access or retrieve City Data stored by the 
Contractor.
2.4.2.Retention and Destruction: The Contractor shall retain City Data only as long 
as necessary to perform its obligations under this Agreement or as required by law. 
Upon expiration or termination of this Agreement, the Contractor shall, as directed 
by the City, either (i) make City Data available to the City for retrieval, or (ii) securely 
destroy all City Data and certify such destruction in writing. Destruction shall render 
City Data permanently unreadable and indecipherable through shredding, erasing, 
secure wiping, or other methods approved by the City. These obligations apply 
equally to the Contractor's successors, including any trustee in bankruptcy, and 
survive termination of this Agreement.
2.5.
Data Location Requirements: All City Data must be stored, processed, and 
transmitted solely within the United States unless the City provides express written 
approval specifying permitted locations, duration, security requirements, and conditions 
for any exception. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the City 
has no responsibility or obligation to comply with foreign data protection laws or policies, 
including but not limited to the General Data Protection Regulation of the European 
Union.
2.6.
Monitoring, Audit, and Survivability: The City may inspect and monitor the 
Contractor's access to and use of City Data and evaluate the Contractor's data protection 
controls, subject to reasonable advance notice and the Contractor's reasonable security 
requirements. The data governance and protection obligations in this Section survive 
termination or expiration of this Agreement and remain in effect until all City Data is 
properly returned, securely destroyed, or as otherwise required by law.
2.7.
Mandatory Regulatory Disclosures: The Contractor shall promptly provide 
the City with a copy of any disclosure the Contractor is required to file with any regulatory 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 43 ---
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 4 of 9
body as a result of a Security Breach or other incident arising from or related to this 
Agreement, including disclosures mandated by the Securities and Exchange Commission 
or any state or federal regulatory authority. If the contents of such disclosure are 
protected by law, the Contractor shall instead provide the City with prompt written notice 
that a disclosure was required, identifying the regulatory body to which the disclosure 
was made and the general nature of the incident giving rise to the disclosure obligation.
3. SECURITY STANDARDS AND SAFEGUARDS
3.1.           Mandatory Security Standards: When maintaining, storing, or processing PII 
on the City's behalf, the Contractor is a "Third-Party Service Provider" under Colo. Rev. 
Stat. § 24-73-103(1)(i) and shall maintain security procedures consistent with Colo. Rev. 
Stat. § 24-73-101 et seq. The Contractor shall implement and maintain security 
safeguards appropriate to the sensitivity and volume of City Data, using controls and 
practices consistent with applicable industry standards and legal requirements. These 
safeguards must protect City Data from unauthorized access, use, modification, 
disclosure, or destruction.
3.2.
Encryption Requirements: All City Data must be encrypted both in transit and 
at rest using National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) approved encryption 
methods and standards. This requirement applies to all file transfers, transmissions, web 
interfaces, storage systems, and backups containing City Data.
3.3.
Software Security and Vulnerability Management: The Contractor shall 
not use software with known security vulnerabilities in connection with City services. The 
Contractor shall regularly consult the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency 
(CISA) Known Exploited Vulnerabilities Catalog and other authoritative vulnerability 
databases and shall promptly remediate any applicable vulnerabilities identified therein. 
The Contractor shall maintain a documented vulnerability management program and 
provide evidence of compliance upon the City's request. Upon request, the Contractor 
shall meet with City to discuss and provide and review a software bill of materials 
(“SBOM”) annually or upon major changes to the solution(s) provided to the City under 
this Agreement. 
3.4.
Software Licensing and Intellectual Property Compliance: The 
Contractor shall use only properly licensed software and technology in all systems that 
access, process, store, or transmit City Data. The Contractor shall maintain compliance 
with all applicable intellectual property requirements, including copyright laws and 
software license terms, for all software and technology deployed under this Agreement. 
The Contractor shall provide proof of licensing compliance upon the City's request.
3.5.
Network Security Controls: The Contractor shall implement network security 
measures appropriate to the sensitivity of accessible City Data, including but not limited 
to firewalls, intrusion detection and prevention systems, security monitoring, and 
network segmentation. The Contractor shall conduct periodic security assessments and 
penetration testing in accordance with this Exhibit and shall remediate identified 
vulnerabilities according to industry-standard timelines based on severity.
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 44 ---
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 5 of 9
4. PERSONNEL SECURITY AND ACCESS CONTROLS
4.1.Personnel Access and Qualifications: The Contractor shall grant access to City Data 
only to personnel who require such access to perform their assigned responsibilities 
under this Agreement. Before granting access to City Data, the Contractor shall ensure 
such personnel have: (i) Completed background screenings appropriate to the sensitivity 
of accessible City Data and consistent with applicable law; (ii) Received training on data 
protection requirements applicable to this Agreement; and (iii) Acknowledged in writing 
their obligations to protect City Data. The Contractor shall promptly revoke access when 
personnel no longer require it or upon termination of their employment or engagement. 
If the Contractor has access to Federal Tax Information (“FTI”) under this Agreement, 
the Contractor shall comply with the background check and safeguarding requirements 
of IRS Publication 1075.
4.2.
Access Control Requirements: The Contractor shall implement and maintain 
access controls for all personnel with access to City Data, including: (i) Least Privilege 
Access: Limiting access rights to the minimum necessary to perform assigned duties; (ii) 
Multi-Factor Authentication: Requiring multi-factor authentication for all systems that 
access, process, store, or transmit City Data; (iii) Access Logging and Monitoring: 
Maintaining logs of all access to City Data, including user identity, date, time, and nature 
of access. Logs shall be retained for at least one (1) year and made available to the City 
upon request; and (iv) Periodic Access Reviews: Conducting regular reviews to ensure 
access rights remain appropriate and removing access immediately upon termination of 
employment or change in role.
4.3.
Confidentiality Obligations: The Contractor shall require all personnel with 
access to City Data to execute nondisclosure agreements that are at least as protective of 
City Data as the confidentiality terms of this Agreement. The Contractor remains fully 
responsible for all acts and omissions regarding City Data by its personnel, regardless of 
whether such personnel have executed nondisclosure agreements. Upon the City’s 
request, the Contractor shall provide copies of executed nondisclosure agreements with 
Subcontractors and other third parties who have access to City Data under this 
Agreement.
5. SECURITY AUDITS AND TESTING
5.1.Baseline Audit Requirements
5.1.1. The Contractor shall conduct or have conducted the following security assessments 
at its own expense:
5.1.1.1.
Annual Security Audit: Initially prior to the Effective Date, and at least 
annually thereafter, an SSAE 18 SOC 2 Type 2 audit (or successor standard) of 
the Contractor's security policies, procedures, and controls applicable to the 
Work performed under this Agreement. The Contractor shall provide audit 
results to the City within seven (7) business days of receipt;
5.1.1.2.
Vulnerability Scanning: At least quarterly, external and internal 
vulnerability scans of systems and facilities used to deliver the Work, including 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 45 ---
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 6 of 9
public-facing websites. Scans shall identify vulnerabilities by severity (critical, 
high, medium, low);
5.1.1.3.
Penetration Testing: At least annually, a formal penetration test 
performed by qualified personnel of systems and facilities used to deliver the 
Work; and
5.1.1.4.
Data Integrity Audits: At least annually, third-party verification of data 
quality and authenticity to protect against data deterioration or degradation.
5.1.2. The Contractor shall also comply with the City's annual risk assessment 
requirements and associated security evaluation procedures.
5.2.
Audit Reports and Remediation: The Contractor shall provide the City with 
all security audit reports, certifications, scan results, and executive summary of test 
documentation within seven (7) business days, upon request. The Contractor shall 
remediate identified vulnerabilities as follows: (i) critical vulnerabilities within thirty 
(30) days; (ii) high vulnerabilities within thirty (30) days; and (iii) medium and low 
vulnerabilities according to industry-standard timelines. The Contractor shall provide 
written evidence of completed remediation to the City upon request. 
5.3.
Additional Security Assessments: The City may request additional security 
audits, assessments, or testing beyond the baseline requirements if warranted by: (i) 
changes in the threat environment; (ii) Security Breaches or suspected security incidents; 
(iii) significant changes to the Work or systems; or (iv) results of baseline audits 
indicating material security deficiencies. For additional assessments required under 
subsections (i), (ii), or (iv), the Contractor shall bear the cost. For additional assessments 
required under subsection (iii) that result from City-requested changes to the scope of 
Work, the Parties shall negotiate cost responsibility in good faith. The Contractor shall 
provide results of all additional assessments to the City within seven (7) business days of 
receipt.
5.4.
Policy Disclosure: Upon the City’s request, the Contractor shall provide 
summary copies of its information security, data privacy, record retention, incident 
response, and business continuity policies and procedures applicable to the Work 
performed under this Agreement. The Contractor shall notify the City in writing of any 
material changes to such policies that could affect the Contractor’s ability to meet its 
obligations under this Agreement.
6. DISASTER RECOVERY, BUSINESS CONTINUITY, AND TRANSITION
6.1.Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Program: The Contractor shall 
maintain a business continuity and disaster recovery program designed to enable the 
Contractor to resume and continue performing its obligations under this Agreement 
following any significant business disruption. The program shall include appropriate 
backup systems, failover capabilities, and recovery procedures to minimize service 
interruptions. The Contractor shall provide the City with a copy of its disaster recovery 
plan summary upon request.
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 46 ---
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 7 of 9
6.2.
Business Continuity Testing and Remediation: The Contractor shall test its 
business continuity and disaster recovery capabilities at least annually to verify the 
program's effectiveness in resuming and continuing operations under this Agreement. 
The Contractor shall provide the City with test summaries or documentation upon 
request.
6.3.
Transition Assistance: The Contractor acknowledges that the Work is vital to 
the City and must continue without interruption upon expiration or termination of this 
Agreement. Contractor will provide City with the same post-termination data retrieval 
assistance that Contractor generally makes available to all customers. Requests for 
Contractor to provide additional assistance in downloading or transferring City Data, 
including requests for Contractor’s data egress service, will result in additional fees and 
Contractor will not warrant or guarantee data integrity or readability in the external 
system.
6.4.
Survival of Obligations: The obligations set forth in this Section 6 shall survive 
the expiration or termination of this Agreement to the extent necessary to effectuate their 
purposes, including the Contractor's obligations to provide transition assistance and the 
City's rights to access escrowed materials under the conditions specified herein.
7. DELIVERY AND ACCEPTANCE
7.1.Acceptance Process: Deliverables shall be deemed accepted (“Acceptance”) ten (10) 
days after delivery, if the City has not provided written notice of rejection or a Review 
Extension Notice (defined below). The City may extend the review period by providing 
written notice to the Contractor prior to the expiration of the initial ten (10) day period 
stating that its review is in progress (a “Review Extension Notice”). A Review Extension 
Notice shall extend the review period by an additional thirty (30) days. The City may 
reject a Deliverable if it materially deviates from the specifications and requirements in 
this Agreement. Rejection notices shall describe the nature of the deviation. Deemed 
acceptance under this Section applies only to Deliverables that materially conform to 
their applicable specifications at the time of delivery; a Deliverable that does not 
materially conform shall not be deemed accepted by the passage of time. Acceptance, 
whether express or deemed, shall not preclude the City from asserting claims based on: 
(a) latent defects that could not reasonably have been detected during the review period; 
(b) the Contractor’s failure to conduct proper quality assurance prior to delivery; or (c) 
the Contractor’s gross negligence or willful misconduct. Acceptance does not waive any 
warranties or other obligations under this Agreement, and payment of an invoice prior 
to Acceptance does not constitute acceptance or waiver of any rights.
7.2.
Rejection and Remediation: Following rejection, the Contractor shall correct 
the deviation at its sole expense and redeliver the Deliverable within fifteen (15) days. 
The acceptance procedures above shall apply to redelivered Deliverables. If the City 
determines that a Deliverable does not perform as warranted after Acceptance, the City 
may revoke acceptance and require remediation in accordance with the warranty 
provisions of this Agreement..
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 47 ---
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 8 of 9
7.3.
Quality Assurance: The Contractor shall provide and maintain a quality 
assurance program acceptable to the City for all Deliverables under this Agreement. The 
Contractor shall deliver only Deliverables that have been inspected and verified to 
conform to the applicable specifications. Delivery of any Deliverable constitutes the 
Contractor’s certification of conformance with specifications. The Contractor shall make 
quality assurance records available to the City upon request.
8. WARRANTIES AND REPRESENTATIONS
8.1.
Third-Party Warranties and Indemnities: The Contractor shall assign to the 
City all third-party warranties and indemnities related to the Work, to the extent 
assignable. For non-assignable warranties, the Contractor shall enforce them on the 
City's behalf at the City's request. The Contractor shall provide the City with copies of all 
applicable third-party warranty terms upon request.
8.2.
Disabling Code Warranty: The Contractor warrants that the Work does not 
and will not contain any malicious code, including without limitation viruses, worms, 
trojans, ransomware, backdoors, time bombs, logic bombs, or other code designed to 
damage, disrupt, disable, harm, or impede operation of any systems or data ("Disabling 
Code"). If Disabling Code is identified in the Work, the Contractor shall, at no cost to the 
City: (i) immediately contain and remove the Disabling Code; (ii) restore or reconstruct 
any City Data or systems affected by the Disabling Code; and (iii) provide the City with a 
corrected version of the Work and re-implement as necessary.
9. LICENSE AND USE AUDIT RIGHTS
9.1.Applicability: This Section applies to the extent the Contractor has granted the City any 
license or other limited permission to use the Contractor’s intellectual property under 
this Agreement.
9.2.
Audit Request: The Contractor may, no more than once per calendar year, 
request in writing that the City audit and certify its compliance with applicable license or 
use restrictions under this Agreement (an “Audit Request”). The Audit Request shall 
specify the period to be audited, which shall not overlap with any previously audited 
period. The City shall complete the audit and provide its certification (“Audit 
Certification”) within ninety (90) days of receipt of the Audit Request.
9.3.
Overuse and Remediation: If the Audit Certification reveals that the City’s use 
exceeded the applicable license or use restrictions (“Overuse”), the Contractor shall 
provide written notice identifying the specific Overuse and any additional licenses, 
maintenance, or services required to bring the City into compliance. The City shall have 
sixty (60) days from receipt of such notice to cure the Overuse by either: (i) reducing its 
use to conform with the applicable restrictions; or (ii) purchasing additional licenses or 
services at the rates specified in this Agreement. The Contractor shall not impose 
retroactive fees, penalties, or assessments for any period preceding the Audit Request.
9.4.
Audit Protections: The following protections apply to any audit conducted 
under this Section: (i) Any dispute regarding the results of an Audit Certification shall be 
resolved through the dispute resolution procedures in the Framework Agreement; (ii) 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 48 ---
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 9 of 9
The Contractor shall treat all Audit Certifications and related communications as 
Confidential Information of the City; (iii) The Contractor shall not suspend, terminate, 
or degrade the City’s access to the Work or Services based on an audit finding until the 
cure period in this Section has expired without cure; and (iv) The City may satisfy its 
audit obligations through electronic usage reports, system-generated license utilization 
data, or other remote verification methods, provided such methods reasonably 
demonstrate the City’s compliance with the applicable restrictions.
REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 49 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 1 of 28
EXHIBIT D, DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
PROVISIONS
This Exhibit applies to all technology systems, software, hardware, and services procured by or 
on behalf of the City and County of Denver Department of Public Safety (“DPS”) under this 
Agreement, including but not limited to law enforcement technology systems, public safety 
communications equipment, evidence management systems, analytics platforms, and any other 
information technology that processes, stores, or transmits Safety Data (as defined below).
This Exhibit regarding the DPS’ Information Technology Provisions (this “Exhibit”) is a material 
part of the Agreement between the Parties to which this Exhibit is attached. In addition to the 
requirements of the main body of this Agreement and Exhibit C (Information Technology 
Provisions), the Contractor shall comply with the specific requirements set forth in this Exhibit 
when providing technology systems or services to DPS. All provisions of this Exhibit that refer 
to the Contractor shall apply equally to any Subcontractor performing work in connection with 
this Agreement. Unless the context clearly requires a distinction between the Agreement and this 
Exhibit, all references to “Agreement” shall include this Exhibit.
1. RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER PROVISIONS: The requirements in this Exhibit are in 
addition to, and do not supersede or replace, the data protection and security requirements 
set forth in this Agreement and its Exhibit C. Where any provision of this Exhibit addresses 
the same subject matter as a provision in the main body of this Agreement or Exhibit C, the 
more protective provision for the City shall govern. In the event of any conflict between this 
Exhibit and other provisions of this Agreement with respect to DPS technology procurements, 
this Exhibit shall control.
2. DEFINITIONS: For purposes of this Exhibit, “Safety Data” means all City Data (as defined 
in Section 1.1 of this Agreement) that: (i) is generated by, processed through, stored in, or 
transmitted by any technology system provided under this Agreement for use by DPS; (ii) 
relates to public safety operations, law enforcement activities, emergency response, or 
criminal justice functions; or (iii) is accessed, used, or maintained by DPS personnel in 
performance of their official duties. Safety Data includes, without limitation, data captured 
by license plate readers, body-worn cameras, surveillance systems, evidence management 
systems, dispatch systems, analytics platforms, and any other public safety technology. For 
the avoidance of doubt, Safety Data is a subset of City Data as defined in this Agreement, and 
all protections applicable to City Data shall apply to Safety Data. The provisions of this 
Exhibit provide additional protections specific to Safety Data.
3. CHANGE MANAGEMENT AND SYSTEM MODIFICATION CONTROLS
3.1.Right to Opt-Out of System Changes: Notwithstanding any provision in Exhibit C 
regarding software updates and upgrades, the City reserves the right to opt-out of or 
delay implementation of any new feature, functionality, update, upgrade, or system 
modification that would substantially alter: (i) the core functionality of the technology 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 50 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 2 of 28
system as described in the Specifications; (ii) the data collection, processing, storage, 
transmission, or sharing capabilities of the system; (iii) the operational use or workflow 
of the system by DPS personnel; (iv) the security architecture or access controls of the 
system; or (v) the integration with other City systems or third-party platforms 
(collectively, “Material System Changes”).
3.2.
Advance Notice and Approval Requirements: The Contractor shall provide 
the City with written notice at least thirty (30) days prior to any planned Material System 
Change. Such notice shall include: (a) a detailed description of the proposed change and 
its technical specifications; (b) an assessment of how the change will affect system 
functionality, data handling, and operational workflows; (c) any changes to data 
collection, processing, sharing, or retention that would result from the modification; (d) 
security implications and any impact on existing access controls or audit capabilities; (e) 
training requirements for DPS personnel; and (f) the Contractor's recommended 
implementation timeline. The City shall have thirty (30) days from receipt of such notice 
to approve, reject, or request modifications to the proposed Material System Change. The 
Contractor shall not implement any Material System Change without the City's express 
written approval.
3.3.
Non-Material Updates: Updates or modifications that do not constitute 
Material System Changes (such as minor bug fixes, security patches addressing known 
vulnerabilities, or performance optimizations that do not alter functionality or data 
handling) may be implemented by the Contractor following ten (10) business days' 
written notice to the City, unless the City objects within such period. Emergency security 
patches addressing actively exploited vulnerabilities may be implemented immediately 
upon notice to the City, provided the Contractor delivers a detailed post-implementation 
report describing the vulnerability addressed and the changes made.
3.4.
Beta Features and Pilot Programs: The City shall not be enrolled in any beta 
testing program, pilot feature rollout, or experimental functionality without the City's 
express written consent. The Contractor shall clearly identify any feature or functionality 
offered to the City as “beta,” “pilot,” “experimental,” or similar designation, and shall 
provide the City with information regarding: (i) the stability and testing status of such 
feature; (ii) any data collection or processing associated with the feature; (iii) the City's 
ability to disable or opt-out of the feature; and (iv) the anticipated timeline for general 
availability or feature retirement.
4. EMERGENCY DISCLOSURE AND EXIGENT CIRCUMSTANCES POLICY
4.1.Policy Disclosure Requirement: Upon request , the Contractor shall provide the City 
with the applicable external facing written copy of the Contractor’s notices regarding data 
processing. . The Axon Cloud Services Notice (attached as a Schedule 1 to this Exhibit) 
will provide overview on the following topics: 
4.1.1. Requests from federal, state, or local law enforcement agencies or other 
governmental entities accompanied by a subpoena, warrant, court order, or other 
legal process;
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 51 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 3 of 28
4.1.2. Requests from federal, state, or local law enforcement agencies or other 
governmental entities without a subpoena, warrant, court order, or other legal 
process;
4.1.3. Emergency or exigent circumstances in which the Contractor may release data 
without legal process and without prior notice to or consent from the affected client; 
and
4.1.4. Any other circumstances under which the Contractor’s policy permits or requires 
disclosure of data maintained on behalf of its clients to third parties, including but 
not limited to disclosures pursuant to the Contractor’s terms of service, privacy 
policy, or data sharing agreements.
4.2.
Exigent Circumstances Definition and Authorization: If the Contractor's 
policy permits release of Safety Data in emergency or exigent circumstances without 
prior City approval, the Contractor shall provide the City with:
4.2.1. A comprehensive list of the specific circumstances that the Contractor has defined 
as qualifying as "emergency," "exigent," or similar urgent situations justifying release 
of data without legal process or customer approval;
4.2.2.The job titles, roles, or positions within the Contractor's organization authorized 
to make the determination that exigent circumstances exist and to approve 
emergency data release;
4.2.3.The internal approval process and chain of command required before any 
emergency release is authorized;
4.2.4.The timeframe within which the Contractor will notify the City following any 
emergency release of Safety Data (which shall be no later than forty-eight (48) hours 
after such release); 
4.2.5.The documentation and audit trail that the Contractor maintains for all emergency 
data releases.
4.3.
City Notification and Objection Rights: The Contractor shall comply with the 
notification and cooperation requirements set forth in this Agreement for all requests for 
disclosure of Safety Data. In addition, the Contractor shall:
4.3.1. Provide the City with immediate notice (within twenty-four (24) hours) upon 
receipt of any request for disclosure of Safety Data, regardless of whether the request 
is accompanied by legal process;
4.3.2.Provide the City with copies of any subpoena, warrant, court order, or other legal 
process, and any written request from law enforcement or governmental entities, 
within forty-eight (48) hours of receipt;
4.3.3.Cooperate reasonably with the City in evaluating or responding to requests for 
disclosure, including, where permitted by law, providing advance notice prior to any 
production;
4.3.4.Direct requesting parties to the City or originating agency as the appropriate entity 
to respond to requests for Safety Data and, to the extent Contractor is legally required 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 52 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 4 of 28
to respond, assert applicable objections and limit any disclosure to the minimum 
information required by law; and
4.3.5.In the event of an emergency release under the Contractor's exigent circumstances, 
provide the City notice within a 48 hours, unless legally prohibited, including a 
general description of the information disclosed and the basis for the disclosure.
4.4.
Policy Review and Updates: Upon request, the Contractor shall provide the 
City with an updated copy of its disclosure notice policy annually, and provide the 
following information (i) the personnel authorized to approve emergency releases; (ii) 
the types of requests to which the Contractor will respond without legal process; or (iii) 
any data sharing agreements or arrangements that could result in disclosure of Safety 
Data.
4.5.
Restriction on Emergency Federal Disclosures: The Contractor shall not 
make any emergency release of Safety Data to a federal law enforcement agency, 
intelligence agency, or any entity of the federal government under its exigent 
circumstances policy without first making a good-faith attempt to reach the City’s 
designated emergency contact. If contact cannot be made within two (2) hours of 
identifying the claimed exigent circumstance, the Contractor shall document that failure 
before proceeding with any disclosure. For purposes of this Section, release to federal 
immigration enforcement agencies shall never qualify as an exigent circumstance under 
this Agreement.
5. MULTI-TENANT ARCHITECTURE AND FEDERAL ACCESS DISCLOSURE
5.1.Infrastructure and Architecture Disclosure: Within thirty (30) days of the 
Effective Date of this Agreement, and annually thereafter upon written request, the 
Contractor shall provide the City with a written disclosure describing:
5.1.1. Whether the system or infrastructure on which Safety Data is stored, processed, or 
transmitted is shared with other entities (i.e., multi-tenant architecture versus 
dedicated infrastructure);
5.1.2. If multi-tenant, the technical and logical controls in place to segregate Safety Data 
from data belonging to other entities, including but not limited to encryption, access 
controls, network segmentation, and database partitioning;
5.1.3. A list of all other governmental entities, law enforcement agencies, or public safety 
organizations whose data is stored, processed, or transmitted on the same 
infrastructure, systems, or platforms as Safety Data;
5.1.4. Contractor warrants that no federal law enforcement agency, intelligence agency, 
or other federal governmental entity has: (i) direct access to the infrastructure, 
systems, databases, or platforms on which Safety Data resides; (ii) the technical 
capability to access Safety Data, whether or not such capability has been exercised; 
(iii) any contractual right to access data on such infrastructure, systems, or 
platforms; or (iv) any backdoor, administrative access, or other means of accessing 
Safety Data without the City’s active involvement in each instance of access; and
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 53 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 5 of 28
5.1.5. A description of any legal obligations, including but not limited to national security 
letters, FISA orders, or other classified or non-public legal requirements, that 
obligate the Contractor to provide federal agencies with access to data maintained 
on the Contractor’s infrastructure or to the infrastructure itself, to the extent the 
Contractor is legally permitted to disclose such obligations.
5.2.
Federal Agency Access Protocols: If any federal law enforcement agency, 
intelligence agency, or other federal governmental entity has or obtains access to the 
infrastructure on which Safety Data resides, the Contractor shall:
5.2.1. Notify the City in writing within ten (10) business days of any new federal agency 
being granted access to such infrastructure, systems, or platforms, to the extent 
legally permissible;
5.2.2. Maintain detailed audit logs of all instances of federal agency access to any systems 
or infrastructure that could potentially access Safety Data, including the identity of 
the accessing agency, date and time of access, nature and scope of access, and data 
accessed or retrieved;
5.2.3. Provide such audit logs to the City upon request, to the extent legally permissible;
5.2.4.Implement technical controls to prevent federal agencies with access to shared 
infrastructure from accessing Safety Data unless specifically authorized by the City 
or required by valid legal process served on the City; and
5.2.5. Immediately (within twenty-four (24) hours) notify the City if the Contractor 
receives any legal process, request, or directive from a federal agency to provide 
access to Safety Data or to disable, modify, or bypass any technical controls 
protecting Safety Data, to the extent legally permissible.
5.3.
Cloud Service Provider Disclosures: If the Contractor utilizes any third-party 
cloud service provider (e.g., Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud 
Platform) to host, store, process, or transmit Safety Data, the Contractor shall disclose:
5.3.1. The identity of all such cloud service providers and the specific services provided 
by each;
5.3.2. The geographic location(s) where Safety Data is stored and processed;
5.3.3. Whether such cloud service provider has disclosed publicly or is known to provide 
federal agencies with direct access to data on its infrastructure; and
5.3.4.Any contractual provisions in the Contractor's agreement with such cloud service 
provider that relate to federal agency access, law enforcement requests, or 
government data sharing.
6. PROTECTION OF LEGALLY PROTECTED HEALTH-CARE ACTIVITY DATA
6.1.Definitions: For purposes of this Section:
6.1.1. “Legally Protected Health-Care Activity” has the meaning set forth in Colo. Rev. 
Stat. § 12-30-121(1)(d), and includes seeking, providing, receiving, or referring for; 
assisting in seeking, providing, or receiving; or providing material support for or 
traveling to obtain gender-affirming health-care services or reproductive health care 
that is not unlawful in Colorado.
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 54 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 6 of 28
6.1.2. “Colorado Shield Laws” means Colorado Executive Order D 2022 032, Colo. Rev. 
Stat. §§ 24-116-101 et seq., Colo. Rev. Stat. § 13-1-140.1, and related provisions of 
Colorado law protecting individuals engaged in Legally Protected Health-Care 
Activities.
6.2.
Statutory Obligations: The Contractor acknowledges that as a person acting on 
behalf of the City, the Contractor is subject to Colo. Rev. Stat. § 24-116-101 and shall not 
provide Safety Data or expend resources to further any out-of-state investigation or, to 
the extent constitutionally permissible, any federal investigation or proceeding that seeks 
to impose civil or criminal liability or professional sanctions upon any person or entity 
for engaging in a Legally Protected Health-Care Activity.
6.3.
Prohibited Actions: Nothing in this Agreement requires Contractor to disclose 
Safety Data in violation of applicable law. Contractor shall respond to legal requests for 
Safety Data consistent with applicable law, valid legal process, and court orders, and may 
require such requests to be directed to the City or originating agency that owns or 
controls the data
6.4.
Exception for Subject Requests: Notwithstanding the foregoing, the 
Contractor may provide information in response to a written request from the individual 
who is the subject of an investigation or proceeding, consistent with Colo. Rev. Stat. § 24-
116-102(2).
6.5.
Inapplicability: This Section does not apply to investigations or proceedings 
concerning conduct that was unlawful under Colorado civil or criminal law at the time 
the conduct occurred. For clarity, if the healthcare services sought, provided, or received 
were lawful in Colorado when they occurred, the protections of this Section apply 
regardless of: (i) whether such conduct is or becomes unlawful in the jurisdiction where 
the investigation originates; or (ii) subsequent changes to Colorado law.
6.6.
Notice Requirements: The Contractor shall:
6.6.1. Immediately (within twenty-four (24) hours) notify the City Attorney's Office of 
any subpoena, warrant, court order, or other legal demand for Safety Data that 
relates to or could reasonably be used to investigate a Legally Protected Health-Care 
Activity;
6.6.2.Provide such notice before producing responsive information where legally 
permissible ; and
6.6.3.Provide reasonable cooperation with the City in evaluating or responding to such 
legal process.
6.6.4.If the Contractor is required by a court of competent jurisdiction or administrative 
body to disclose City Data, the Contractor shall first notify the City and, prior to any 
disclosure, cooperate with the City’s reasonable requests in connection with the 
City’s right to intervene, quash, or modify the legal order, demand, or request, and 
upon request, provide the City with a copy of its response. Upon notice, the City will 
promptly coordinate with the Contractor regarding the preservation and disposition 
of any City Data and records relevant to any current or anticipated litigation. If the 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 55 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 7 of 28
City receives a subpoena, legal order, or other legal demand seeking data maintained 
by the Contractor, the City will promptly provide a copy to the Contractor. Upon 
notice and if required by law, the Contractor shall promptly provide the City with 
copies of its data required for the City to meet its necessary disclosure obligations. 
6.7.
Subcontractor 
Flow-Down: 
The Contractor 
shall 
incorporate 
the 
requirements of this Section into all subcontracts and require subcontractors to comply 
with these provisions.
6.8.
Material Breach: The Contractor's violation of this Section constitutes a 
material breach of this Agreement. The City may terminate this Agreement immediately 
upon written notice if the Contractor violates this Section. The Contractor shall be liable 
to the City for all damages resulting from such breach, including but not limited to:
6.8.1. Any civil penalties imposed on the City under Colo. Rev. Stat. § 24-74-107 or other 
applicable law;
6.8.2.Reasonable attorney fees and costs incurred by the City in connection with any 
resulting investigation or legal proceeding; and
6.8.3.Any damages or penalties assessed against the City or City employees arising from 
the Contractor's violation.
7. UNAUTHORIZED SHARING PROHIBITION
7.1.Prohibition on Unauthorized Sharing: The Contractor acknowledges that Safety 
Data is highly sensitive and that unauthorized disclosure could compromise public safety 
operations, civil liberties, and community trust. Except as expressly authorized in this 
Agreement or required by applicable law, the Contractor shall not disclose, provide 
access to, sell, license, transfer, or otherwise make available any Safety Data to any third 
party, including but not limited to federal law enforcement agencies, intelligence 
agencies, state or local law enforcement agencies outside of those authorized by the City, 
commercial partners, other customers, or data brokers. This prohibition includes but is 
not limited to participation in federal data sharing programs, fusion centers, information 
sharing agreements, or public-private partnerships that would result in unauthorized 
access to Safety Data, except as required by federal law, court order, subpoena, or 
warrant directed to the City or the Contractor.
7.2.
Permitted Disclosures: The following disclosures shall not constitute 
Unauthorized Sharing under this Section:
7.2.1. Disclosure Required by Legal Process: Disclosure pursuant to a valid 
subpoena, warrant, or court order directed to the Contractor with respect to Safety 
Data, provided the Contractor complies with all notification and cooperation 
requirements set forth in this Agreement and Section 4.3 of this Exhibit;
7.2.2. Emergency Disclosures: Disclosure in response to an exigent or emergency 
circumstance as defined in the Contractor's exigent circumstances policy disclosed 
pursuant to Section 4 of this Exhibit, provided the Contractor complies with all 
notification requirements set forth therein; and
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 56 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 8 of 28
7.2.3. City-Authorized Disclosures: Disclosure expressly authorized in writing by the 
City on a case-by-case basis, which authorization shall specify the recipient, the scope 
of data to be disclosed, the purpose, and any limitations or conditions.
7.2.4. Geographic and Standards Limitations on Authorized Disclosures: 
Notwithstanding Section 7.2.3, City-authorized disclosures of Safety Data to law 
enforcement agencies shall be limited to agencies that: (i) are organized under the 
laws of the State of Colorado; and (ii) have executed a written data-sharing 
agreement with the City that incorporates, at minimum, the data use restrictions, 
retention limitations, and re-disclosure prohibitions set forth in this Exhibit. The 
Contractor shall not disclose Safety Data to any agency that has not satisfied both 
conditions, even if directed by the City, and shall promptly notify the City Attorney 
if it receives such direction.
7.3.
Clarification Regarding City-Directed Access: Access to Safety Data by City 
personnel, by personnel of other governmental entities specifically authorized in writing 
by the City, or through City-initiated queries, searches, or lookups using the system's user 
interface in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, shall not constitute 
Unauthorized Sharing. However, any automated or systematic sharing of Safety Data 
with third parties triggered by City's use of the system, unless expressly disclosed to and 
approved by the City in writing, shall constitute Unauthorized Sharing.
7.4.
Network Isolation of Safety Data: The Contractor shall not include Safety 
Data, or any derivative thereof, in any cross-customer database, network-wide search 
index, federated query system, or shared data pool that is accessible to any party other 
than the City and personnel specifically authorized by the City. This prohibition applies 
regardless of whether the data is associated with the City's account identifier and 
regardless of whether City users can initiate queries against such a network. The 
Contractor shall provide the City with written certification annually confirming that 
Safety Data has not been included in any such system.
7.5.
Relationship to Security Breach: For the avoidance of doubt:
7.5.1. Security Breach (as defined in this Agreement) encompasses unauthorized access, 
use, or disclosure resulting from compromise of security controls, whether 
intentional, 
accidental, 
or 
through 
third-party 
action. 
The 
Contractor's 
indemnification obligations under this Agreement apply to all Security Breaches.
7.5.2. Unauthorized Sharing under this Section refers specifically to the Contractor's 
intentional, knowing, or reckless disclosure or provision of access to Safety Data in 
violation of the prohibitions set forth in this Section.
7.5.3. A single event may constitute both a Security Breach and an Unauthorized Sharing, 
in which case the indemnification obligations and termination rights set forth in this 
Agreement shall apply.
8. LAW ENFORCEMENT REQUEST POLICY AND DATA DESTRUCTION POLICY
8.1.
Law Enforcement Request Policy: Within thirty (30) days of the Effective 
Date of this Agreement, the Contractor shall provide the City with a complete written 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 57 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 9 of 28
copy of the Contractor’s policy for responding to law enforcement requests for data 
maintained on behalf of its clients, including how such policy specifically applies to Safety 
Data. This policy shall address, at a minimum:
8.1.1. The types of law enforcement requests the Contractor will honor (e.g., only those 
with warrants, or also those with subpoenas, court orders, or administrative 
subpoenas);
8.1.2. The verification procedures the Contractor employs to authenticate the validity of 
law enforcement requests;
8.1.3. The Contractor’s process for notifying affected clients, including the City with 
respect to Safety Data (including timing and method of notice);
8.1.4. Any circumstances under which the Contractor will challenge, object to, or seek to 
narrow the scope of law enforcement requests;
8.1.5. The Contractor's policy regarding requests for expedited or emergency production;
8.1.6. Whether the Contractor publishes transparency reports regarding law 
enforcement requests and, if so, the level of detail provided; and
8.1.7. Any fees or costs the Contractor charges to law enforcement agencies for 
production of data.
8.2.
Data Destruction Policy: Contract will comply with retention and deletion 
standards developed within the Axon Cloud Service Notice (attached as Schedule 1)Axon 
will delete data 90 days after contract termination.  
8.3.
Data Retention Limitations: Setting retention periods for Safety Data remains 
exclusively with the City, which may, through its appointed cloud admin, set the 
retention period in its cloud service tenancy. City may, at any time and in its sole 
discretion, permanently delete any and all Safety Data. The permanent deletion will be 
performed in accordance with Axon Cloud Service Notice (Schedule 1).
9. COLORADO LAW COMPLIANCE AND IMMIGRATION ENFORCEMENT
9.1.Reaffirmation of Immigration Enforcement Prohibition: The requirements set 
forth in this Agreement regarding immigration enforcement prohibition shall apply with 
full force to all Safety Data. The Contractor acknowledges that Safety Data may be 
particularly sensitive with respect to immigration enforcement concerns due to the 
nature of law enforcement operations and data collection by DPS. The Contractor 
reaffirms its commitment not to use, disclose, or provide access to Safety Data for 
purposes of investigating for, participating in, cooperating with, or assisting in federal 
immigration enforcement, except as required by federal or state law, to comply with a 
court-issued subpoena, warrant, or order, or in connection with criminal investigations 
authorized by judicial process.
9.2.
Contractor Personnel Obligations: The Contractor shall ensure that all 
personnel with access to Safety Data:(i) understand applicable confidentiality obligations 
and the sensitive nature of Safety Data and (ii) route requests for Safety Data through 
Contractor’s established legal process procedures . The Contractor shall monitor and 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 58 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 10 of 28
enforce compliance with these requirements and remains fully responsible for all actions 
taken by such personnel with respect to Safety Data.
10.
ADDITIONAL SECURITY AND COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS
10.1.
Enhanced Vendor Risk Assessment Compliance: In addition to the security 
requirements set forth in this Agreement and Exhibit C, the Contractor shall meet or 
exceed the system security and policy requirements set forth in the City's Technology 
Services Vendor Risk Assessment (“VRA”) applicable to the specific technology system 
or service being provided. The Contractor shall participate in periodic VRA reviews as 
requested by the City, which may occur annually or more frequently based on the 
sensitivity of Safety Data and the criticality of the system to public safety operations. At 
a minimum, the Contractor shall maintain the following certifications and standards 
throughout the Term: (i) SOC 2 Type 2 certification applicable to the LPR system; (ii) 
encryption of Safety Data at rest using AES-256 or an equivalent NIST-approved 
algorithm of equal or greater strength; (iii) encryption of Safety Data in transit using TLS 
1.2 or higher; and (iv) compliance with the FBI CJIS Security Policy for all Safety Data 
that constitutes or interfaces with Criminal Justice Information. The Contractor shall not 
downgrade from any of these standards without sixty (60) days' prior written notice and 
the City's express written consent.
10.2.
CJIS Compliance Reaffirmation: To the extent Safety Data includes or 
interfaces with CJI as defined in the FBI CJIS Security Policy, the Contractor shall 
comply with all requirements set forth in this Agreement. The Contractor acknowledges 
that many DPS technology systems involve CJI and that CJIS compliance is a material 
requirement of this Agreement for such systems.
10.3.
Cooperation with Department of Safety Audits: In addition to the audit 
rights reserved to the City under this Agreement and Exhibit C, the Contractor shall 
cooperate with audits, inspections, and assessments conducted by or on behalf of DPS to 
verify compliance with this Exhibit. Such audits may include review of the Contractor's 
incident response capabilities. The Contractor shall provide DPS personnel or designees 
with access to relevant documentation, and personnel necessary to complete such audits, 
subject to reasonable security protocols and advance notice requirements.
11. SURVIVAL AND ENFORCEMENT
11.1.
Survival: The obligations set forth in this Exhibit shall survive the termination or 
expiration of this Agreement to the extent necessary to protect Safety Data, ensure proper 
destruction of such data, and address any breaches or violations that occurred during the 
term of this Agreement.
11.2.
Material Terms: The Contractor acknowledges and agrees that the requirements 
set forth in this Exhibit are material terms of this Agreement. Any violation of this Exhibit, 
including but not limited to: (i) unauthorized disclosure of Safety Data to federal 
agencies; (ii) failure to notify the City of law enforcement requests; (iii) implementation 
of Material System Changes without City approval; (iv) providing false or incomplete 
information in required disclosures; (v) failure to comply with exigent circumstances 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 59 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 11 of 28
notification requirements; or (vi) sharing, disclosing, or providing access to Safety Data 
to any federal law enforcement or intelligence agency without prior express written City 
authorization and without a valid court-issued warrant directed to the City; shall 
constitute a material breach of this Agreement entitling the City to exercise any and all 
remedies available under this Agreement, including termination for breach in 
accordance with this Agreement. Violations of items (i), (ii), and (vi) of this Section shall 
constitute material breach for which no cure period shall apply; the City may terminate 
this Agreement immediately upon written notice without affording the Contractor any 
opportunity to cure.
11.3.
No Waiver of Other Protections: Nothing in this Exhibit shall be construed to 
limit, waive, or reduce any protections afforded to City Data or Safety Data under the 
main body of this Agreement, Exhibit C, or any other provision of this Agreement. All 
such protections remain in full force and effect and are supplemented by the additional 
requirements set forth in this Exhibit.
REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 60 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 12 of 28
Schedule 1 – Axon Privacy Policy
AXON CLOUD SERVICES PRIVACY NOTICE
This Axon Cloud Services Privacy Notice (“Notice”) applies only to the information that Axon 
Enterprise, Inc. and its other legal entities (“Axon” “we”, “us”, “our”) collect from Customers 
and their users (collectively, “Customer” “you” and “your”) and provide to Axon in connection 
with Customer’s use of Axon Cloud Services (as defined below). Axon's marketing sites and 
other public websites are governed by the Axon Global Privacy Notice.
Unless otherwise provided in this Notice, this Notice is subject to the terms of the Master 
Services Purchasing Agreement, or other similar agreement, if any, between Axon and 
Customer (“Agreement”). A concept or principle covered in this Notice shall apply and be 
incorporated into all other provisions of the Agreement in which the concept or principle is also 
applicable, notwithstanding the absence of any specific cross-reference thereto. All capitalized 
terms referenced, but not defined, in this Notice shall have the meanings assigned to them in 
the Agreement.
By using Axon Cloud Services, Customer acknowledges that Customer has read and 
understands this Notice. Axon may occasionally update this Notice. When Axon posts 
changes, Axon will revise the "last updated" date at the top of this page. Customer’s continued 
use of Axon Cloud Services will signify Customer’s acknowledgement, and to the extent 
allowed by law agreement to and acceptance of any such changes.
Definitions
·       “Axon Cloud Services” means Axon’s web services hosted on evidence.com 
including Axon Evidence and other related offerings, including, without limitation, interactions 
between Axon Cloud Services and Axon Products (as defined below).
·       “Axon Products” means:
(1) Axon Cloud Services;
(2) devices sold by Axon (including, without limitation, conducted energy weapons, cameras, 
sensors, and docking systems) (collectively, “Axon Devices”);
(3) other software offered by Axon (including, without limitation, Axon Investigate, Axon 
Capture, Axon Evidence SYNC, Axon Device Manager, Axon View, Axon Interview, Axon 
Commander, Axon Uploader XT, and Axon View XL) (collectively, “Axon Client 
Applications”); and
(4) ancillary hardware, equipment, software, services, cloud-based services, documentation, 
and software maintenance releases and updates. Axon Products do not include any third-party 
applications, hardware, warranties, or the 'my.evidence.com' services.
“Customer Data” means:
(1) “Customer Content”, which means data uploaded into, ingested by, or created in Axon 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 61 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 13 of 28
Cloud Services within Customer’s tenant, including, without limitation, media or multimedia 
uploaded into Axon Cloud Services by Customer (“Evidence”); and
(2) “Non-Content Data”, which means:
(a) “Customer Entity and User Data”, which means Personal Data and non-Personal Data 
regarding Customer’s Axon Cloud Services tenant configuration;
(b) “Customer Entity and User Service Interaction Data” which means data regarding 
Customer's interactions with Axon Cloud Services and Axon Client Applications;
(c) “Service Operations and Security Data”, which means data within service logs, metrics and 
events and vulnerability data, including, without limitation: (i) application, host, and 
infrastructure logs; (ii) Axon Device and Axon Client Application logs; (iii) service metrics and 
events logs; and (iv) web transaction logs;
(d) “Account Data”, which means information provided to Axon during sign-up, purchase, or 
administration of Axon Cloud Services, including, without limitation, the name, address, phone 
number, and email address Customer provides, as well as aggregated usage information 
related to Customer’s account and administrative data associated with the account; and
(e) “Support Data”, which means the information Axon collects when Customer contacts or 
engages Axon for support, including, without limitation, information about hardware, software, 
and other details gathered related to the support incident, such as contact or authentication 
information, chat session personalization, information about the condition of the machine and 
the application when the fault occurred and during diagnostics, system and registry data about 
software installations and hardware configurations, and error-tracking files.
·       “Data Controller” means the natural or legal person, public authority, or any other body 
which alone or jointly with others determines the purposes and means of the processing of 
Personal Data (as defined below).
·      “Data Processor” means a natural or legal person, public authority or any other body 
which processes Personal Data on behalf of the Data Controller.
·       “Personal Data” means information about or relating to an individual, whether recorded 
or not, whether or not true or factual, which can be used to uniquely identify the individual 
either on its own or by reference to an identifier such as an identification number, location data, 
an online identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, 
mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that natural person.
·       “Sensitive Personal Data” means any information related to genetic, biometric and 
health data, as well as personal data revealing racial and ethnic origin, political opinions, 
religious or ideological convictions or trade union membership.  Specific information types 
connected to an individual where misuse could negatively impact fundamental rights and 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 62 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 14 of 28
freedoms of the data subject. This includes financial data of an individual, racial, genetic, 
health or lifestyle data.
·       “Processing” means any operation or set of operations which is performed on Personal 
Data or on sets of Personal Data, whether or not by automated means, such as
·        collection, recording, organization, structuring, storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, 
consultation, use, disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise making available, 
alignment or combination, restriction, erasure or destruction.
·       “Sub-processor” means any third party engaged by the Data Processor to assist in data 
processing activities that the Data Processor is carrying out on behalf of the Data Controller. 
Axon's Role
Data Processor
Axon is a Data Processor of Customer Content and Axon obtains no rights to Customer 
Content. The Customer is a Data Controller and controls and owns all right, title, and interest in 
and to Customer Content. Axon only processes Customer Content on behalf of the Customer 
in accordance with the Agreement and the Data Processing Agreement entered into between 
the parties. 
Data Controller
Axon is a Data Controller for Non-Content Data. In regard to Customer Entity & User Data, 
Axon is a Data Controller and Customer is an independent Data Controller, not a joint Data 
Controller.
Axon processes Non-Content Data to provide Axon Cloud Services and to support the overall 
delivery and improvement of Axon Products including business, operational, and security 
purposes.  Axon may analyze and report anonymized and aggregated Non-Content Data to 
communicate with external and internal stakeholders.
Data Collection Purposes and Processing Activities
Customer Content
Axon will only process Customer Content to provide Customer Axon Cloud Services including, 
without limitation, user authentication and authorization functionality, and to enable the 
functionalities according to the configuration selected by the Customer. Axon only processes 
Customer Content on behalf of the Customer in accordance with the Agreement and the Data 
Processing Agreement entered into between the parties. Axon will not use Customer Content 
for any advertising or other commercial purposes.
Axon periodically upgrades or changes Axon Cloud Services to provide customers with new 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 63 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 15 of 28
features and enhancements in alignment with the Axon Evidence Maintenance Schedule. 
Axon communicates such upgrades or changes to customers one week prior to release via 
mechanisms outlined in the Maintenance Schedule.
Non-Content Data
Axon processes Non-Content Data to provide Axon Cloud Services and to support the overall 
delivery of Axon Products including business, operational, and security purposes. 
Non-Content Data includes the following:
Customer Entity and User Data
Axon uses Customer Entity and User Data to: (1) provide Axon Cloud Services, including, 
without limitation, user authentication and authorization functionality; (2) improve the quality of 
Axon Products or provide enhanced functionality and features; (3) contact Customer to provide 
information about its account, tenant, subscriptions, billing, and updates to Axon Cloud 
Services, including, without limitation, information about new features, security and other 
technical issues; and (4) market our products or services to Customer via email, by sending 
promotional communication including targeted advertisements, or presenting a Customer with 
relevant offers. 
Customer cannot unsubscribe from non-promotional communications, such as maintenance 
schedules, or similar notifications, but may unsubscribe from promotional communications at 
any time such as by clicking on an unsubscribe button at the bottom of such communications. 
Customer Entity and User Service Interaction Data
Customer Entity and User Service Interaction Data includes data regarding Customers' 
interactions with Axon Cloud Services and Axon Client Applications. Axon processes 
Customer Entity and User Service Interaction Data to improve the quality of Axon Products 
and provide enhanced functionality and features.
Service Operations and Security Data
Axon processes "Service Operations and Security Data" to provide service operations and 
monitoring for its own purposes of ensuring the security of its services and systems. The 
processing of "Service Operations and Security Data" is necessary for Axon to monitor the 
security of its services, detect vulnerabilities, and act promptly on security breaches. 
Therefore, the processing is necessary to meet Axon's legal obligations, to maintain security 
standards and to fulfil our contractual commitments to the Customer.
Account Data
Axon uses Account Data to provide Axon Cloud Services, manage Customer's accounts, to 
market, and communicate with Customer by carrying out the administrative management of 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 64 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 16 of 28
your registration and/or updating as a client, and the management and development of the 
contractual relationship with Customer and to contact Customer to provide information about 
its account, tenant, subscriptions, billing and updates to Axon Cloud Services, and to market 
our products or services to Customer via email, by sending promotional communications, 
including targeted advertisements, or by presenting Customer with relevant offers.
Support Data
Axon uses Support Data to resolve Customer’s support incident, and to operate, improve, and 
personalize Axon Products, including, without limitation, information about hardware, software, 
and other details gathered related to the support incident, such as contact or authentication 
information, chat session personalization, information about the condition of the device and the 
application when the fault occurred and during diagnostics, system and registry data about 
software installations and hardware configurations, and error-tracking files. Service Operations 
and Security Data may be part of the Support Data when required for this purpose. 
If Customer shares Customer Content to Axon in a support scenario, or access to or 
processing of Customer Content is necessary to provide support, the Customer Content will be 
processed as Support Data and will only be used for resolving support incidents. 
 
Axon may provide support through phone, email, online chat or sessions. Phone 
conversations, online chat sessions, or online sessions with Axon support professionals may 
be recorded and/or monitored for efforts such as training, future support, and evidentiary 
purposes.
Legal Basis for Processing Personal Data
CUSTOMER CONTENT
Axon’s legal basis for the collection and processing of Personal Data within Customer Content 
is to fulfill obligations to facilitate and process contractual transactions that take place when 
you interact with Axon Cloud Services.
 NON-CONTENT DATA
Axon’s legal basis for the collection and processing of Personal Data within Non-Content Data 
is the legitimate interest to provide and support the delivery of our Services; investigate and 
help prevent security threats, fraud, or other malicious activity; enforce & protect the rights and 
properties of Axon or its affiliates; protect the rights and personal safety of Axon employees 
and third parties on or using the Services or Axon Products; and for the purposes which may 
be required by applicable laws and regulations.
 
Server and Data Location
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 65 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 17 of 28
Customer Content
Axon offers Axon Cloud Services in numerous geographic regions. Before creating an account, 
Customer determines where Axon will store Customer Content by designating an economic 
area.
Axon ensures that all Customer Content in Axon Evidence remains within the selected 
economic area, including, without limitation, all backup data, replication sites, and disaster 
recovery sites. Customer selected economic areas can be determined through review of 
Customer's Axon Cloud Services URL. Customer URLs conform to 
the <youragency>.<regioncode>.evidence.com scheme with the exception of US customers 
where the scheme may exclude the region code and is <youragency>.evidence.com. US 
Federal customers conform to the scheme <youragency>.us.evidence.com
Non-Content Data
Customer Entity and User Data
Customer Entity and User Data is located in Customer's selected economic area for Customer 
Content. Customer Entity and User Data may be copied or transferred to the United States. 
Customer Entity and User Service Interaction Data
Customer Entity and User Service Interaction Data is located in Customer's selected economic 
area for Customer Content and the United States.
Service Operations and Security Data
Service Operations and Security Data is located in Customer's selected economic area for 
Customer Content and the United States.
 Account Data and Support Data
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 66 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 18 of 28
Account and Support Data may be located in the United States and may be located in 
Customer's selected economic area for Customer Content. 
Axon Cloud Services Sub-processors
Axon may rely on Sub-processors to provide or enhance Axon Products on its behalf. Axon 
only permits Sub-processors to use Customer Content to deliver to the Customer services that 
Axon offers. Axon prohibits Sub-processors from using Customer Content for any other 
purpose. Ownership of rights, titles, and interest in and to Customer Content remain with 
Customer.
Axon exercises commercially reasonable efforts in connection with contractual obligations to 
ensure its Sub-processors are compliant with all applicable data protection laws and 
regulations surrounding the Sub-processors access and scope of work in connection with 
Customer Content. Prior to onboarding Sub-processors, Axon audits the security and privacy 
practices of Sub-processors to ensure Sub-processors provide a level of security and privacy 
appropriate to the scope of their services.
Axon maintains an up-to-date list of the names and locations of the required Customer 
Content  sub-processor(s) used to for standard Axon Cloud Services here. Please note, 
additional Sub-processors may be included depending on additional functionality requested 
during contracting and implementation. If additional information is needed, please contact 
Axon at privacy@axon.com.
Axon will give Customer notice of any new Sub-processor. If you are a current Axon Cloud 
Services customer with a data processing agreement in place with Axon, you may 
subscribe here to receive notifications of a new Sub-processor(s) before Axon authorizes any 
new Sub-processor to process Customer Content in connection with the provision of your 
service.
International Data Transfers
Personal Data within Non-Content Data may be subject to international data transfers outside 
the European Economic Area (EEA), United Kingdom, and Switzerland, which will be regulated 
in accordance with the mechanisms set out in the GDPR, UK-GDPR, and the Swiss FADP 
respectively, to safeguard the rights and freedoms of the data subject and ensure a level of 
protection equivalent to that required by European, United Kingdom, and Swiss regulations.
Axon and Fusus Inc. (‘Axon’) comply with the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework (EU-U.S. 
DPF), the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF, and the Swiss-U.S. Data Privacy Framework 
(Swiss-U.S. DPF) as set forth by the U.S. Department of Commerce.  Axon has certified to the 
U.S. Department of Commerce that it adheres to the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework 
Principles (EU-U.S. DPF Principles) with regard to the processing of personal data received 
from the European Union in reliance on the EU-U.S. DPF and from the United Kingdom (and 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 67 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 19 of 28
Gibraltar) in reliance on the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF.  Axon has certified to the U.S. 
Department of Commerce that it adheres to the Swiss-U.S. Data Privacy Framework Principles 
(Swiss-U.S. DPF Principles) with regard to the processing of personal data received from 
Switzerland in reliance on the Swiss-U.S. DPF.
If there is any conflict between the terms in this Notice and the EU-U.S. DPF Principles and/or 
the Swiss-U.S. DPF Principles, the Principles shall govern.  To learn more about the Data 
Privacy Framework (DPF) program, and to view our certification, please 
visit https://www.dataprivacyframework.gov/.
In compliance with the EU-U.S. DPF, the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF, and the Swiss-
U.S. DPF, Axon commits to resolve DPF Principles-related complaints about our collection and 
use of your personal information. EU, UK, and Swiss individuals with inquiries or complaints 
regarding our handling of personal data received in reliance on the EU-U.S. DPF, the UK 
Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF, and the Swiss-U.S. DPF should first contact Axon 
at privacy@axon.com.
In compliance with the EU-U.S. DPF, the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF and the Swiss-
U.S. DPF, Axon commits to cooperate and comply respectively with the advice of  the panel 
established by the EU data protection authorities (DPAs), the UK Information Commissioner’s 
Office (ICO) and the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority (GRA), and the Swiss Federal Data 
Protection and Information Commissioner (FDPIC) with regard to unresolved complaints 
concerning our handling of personal data received in reliance on the EU-U.S. DPF,  the UK 
Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF, and the Swiss-U.S. DPF. 
If your DPF complaint cannot be resolved through the above channels, under certain 
conditions, you may invoke binding arbitration for some residual claims not resolved by other 
redress mechanisms.
If you are an EU, Swiss or UK Individual, where we transfer your personal data to third party 
service providers (see above) who perform services for us or on our behalf, we are responsible 
for the processing of that data by them and shall remain liable if they process your personal 
data in a manner inconsistent with the DPF Principles referred to below, unless we prove that 
we are not responsible for the event giving rise to the damage. 
Axon is subject to the investigatory and enforcement powers of the United States Federal 
Trade Commission regarding compliance with the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework (EU-U.S. 
DPF) and the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF, and the Swiss-U.S. Data Privacy Framework 
(Swiss-U.S. DPF).
 To the extent the above mechanisms cannot be used to adequately safeguard transfers 
outside the EEA, United Kingdom, or Switzerland, Axon will put in place alternate safeguards, 
as appropriate (such as Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs) and Transfer Impact 
Assessments (TIA). 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 68 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 20 of 28
Information Sharing
Axon may share data with its subsidiaries, legal entities, third party service providers and other 
partners to help us operate, including for providers to facilitate: (1) user account management, 
authentication, analytics, and communication, (2) product features, e.g. product development, 
and error analytics, (3) customer service and support, and (4) security monitoring and 
investigation.
Required Disclosures
Axon will not disclose Customer Content or Non-Content Data to Government Authorities 
except as required by any law or regulation. If permitted, Axon will notify Customer if any 
disclosure request is received for Customer Content so Customer may challenge or object.
Data Security Measures
Axon is committed to helping protect the security of Customer Data. Axon has established and 
implemented policies, programs, and procedures that are commercially reasonable and in 
compliance with applicable industry practices, including administrative, technical, and physical 
safeguards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and security of Customer Content and Non-
Content Data against unauthorized access, use, modification, disclosure, or other misuse.
Axon will take appropriate steps to ensure compliance with the data security measures by its 
employees, contractors, and Sub-processors, to the extent applicable to the respective scope 
of performance.
Additional information regarding Axon’s Data Security program can be found by 
visiting  https://trust.axon.com
Confidentiality
Customer Content and Non-Content Data is encrypted in transit over public networks. 
Customer Content is encrypted at rest in all Axon Cloud Service regions.
Axon protects all Customer Content and Non-Content Data with strong logical access control 
mechanisms to ensure only users with appropriate business needs have access to data. Third-
party specialized security firms periodically validate access control mechanisms. Access 
control lists are reviewed periodically by Axon.
Integrity
As Evidence is ingested into Axon Cloud Services, a Secure Hash Algorithm  (“SHA”) 
checksum is generated on the upload device and again upon ingestion into Axon Cloud 
Services. If the SHA checksum does not match, the upload will be reinitiated. Once upload of 
Evidence is successful, the SHA checksum is retained by Axon Cloud Services and is made 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 69 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 21 of 28
viewable by users with access to the Evidence audit trail for the specific piece of Evidence. 
Tamper-proof audit trails are created automatically by Axon Cloud Services upon ingestion of 
any Evidence.
Availability
Axon takes a comprehensive approach to ensure the availability of Axon Cloud Services. Axon 
replicates Customer Content over multiple systems to help to protect against accidental 
destruction or loss. Axon Cloud Services systems are designed to minimize single points of 
failure. Axon has designed and regularly plans and tests its business continuity planning and 
disaster recovery programs.
Isolation
Axon logically isolates Customer Content. Customer Content for an authenticated customer 
will not be displayed to another customer (unless Customers explicitly create a sharing 
relationship between their tenants or shared data between themselves). Centralized 
authentication systems are used across an Axon Cloud Service region to increase uniform 
data security.
Additional role-based access control is leveraged within Customer’s Axon Cloud Service 
tenant to define what users can interact with or access Customer Content. Customer solely 
manages the role-based access control mechanisms within its Axon Cloud Services tenant.
Within the Axon Cloud Services supporting infrastructure, access is granted based on the 
principle of least privilege. All access must be approved by system owners and undergo at 
least quarterly user access reviews. Any shared computing or networking resource will 
undergo extensive hardening and is validated periodically to ensure appropriate isolation of 
Customer Content.
Non-Content Data is logically isolated within information systems such that only appropriate 
Axon personnel have access.
Personnel
Axon personnel are required to conduct themselves in a manner consistent with applicable 
law, the company’s guidelines regarding confidentiality, business ethics, acceptable usage, 
and professional standards. Axon personnel must complete security training upon hire in 
addition to annual and role-specific security training.
Axon personnel undergo an extensive background check process to the extent legally 
permissible and in accordance with applicable local labor laws and statutory regulations. Axon 
personnel supporting Axon Cloud Services are subject to additional role-specific security 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 70 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 22 of 28
clearances or adjudication processes, including Criminal Justice Information Services 
background screening and national security clearances and vetting.
Data Breach
Notification
If Axon becomes aware of unlawful or unauthorized access to, disclosure, alteration, or 
destruction of Non-Content or Customer Data, we will notify affected Customers and relevant 
authorities as necessary.
Data Portability, Migration, and Transfer Back Assistance
Data Portability
Evidence uploaded to Axon Cloud Services is retained in original format. Evidence may be 
retrieved and downloaded by Customer from Axon Cloud Services to move data to an 
alternative information system. Evidence audit trails and system reports may also be 
downloaded in various industry-standard, non-proprietary formats.
Data Migration
In the event Customer’s Axon Cloud Services is terminated, Axon will not delete any Customer 
Content during the 90 days following termination. During this 90-day period, Customer may 
retrieve Customer Content only if Customer has paid all amounts due (there will be no 
application functionality of the Axon Cloud Services during this 90-day period other than the 
ability for Customer to retrieve Customer Content). Customer will not incur any additional fees 
if Customer downloads Customer Content from Axon Cloud Services during this 90-day period. 
Axon has no obligation to maintain or provide any Customer Content after the 90-day period 
and thereafter, unless legally prohibited, will delete Customer Content upon termination as part 
of normal retention and data management instructions from customers. Upon written request, 
Axon will provide written proof that all Customer Content has been successfully deleted and 
removed from Axon Cloud Services.
Post-Termination Assistance
Axon will provide Customer with the same post-termination data retrieval assistance that is 
generally made available to all customers. Requests for additional assistance to Customer in 
downloading or transferring Customer Content will result in additional fees and Axon cannot 
warrant or guarantee data integrity or readability in the external systems.
Children's online privacy protection
Axon takes seriously its obligations under the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act. We do 
not knowingly collect Non-Content Data regarding children under 18. 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 71 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 23 of 28
Data Subject Rights
Non-Content Data
You have the rights described below with respect to your Personal Data. You may have the 
rights described below:
·                Access and obtain a copy of your Personal Data on request; 
·                Require Axon to change incorrect or incomplete Personal Data; 
·                Require Axon to delete or stop processing your Personal Data, for example where 
the Personal Data is no longer necessary for the purposes of processing; 
·                Object to the processing of your Personal Data where Axon is relying on its 
legitimate interests as the legal ground for processing; and 
·                Withdraw your consent in circumstances where consent is the legal basis for 
processing. 
 If you would like to exercise any of these rights or have any questions, please contact us at
privacy@axon.com. To submit a deletion request, please complete this form.
 If you believe that Axon has not complied with your data protection rights, you may have the 
right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority, in particular in the jurisdiction where you 
work, normally live or where any alleged infringement of data protection laws occurred.  
 In the EEA: the data protection authority of their place of residence; 
In the United Kingdom: the UK Information Commissioner’s Office (“ICO”); 
In Switzerland: the Federal Data Protection and Information Commissioner (“FDPIC”). 
In the United States, please contact your applicable State Attorney General.  
In other locations around the world, their local data protection authority. 
 If personal data covered by this Privacy Notice is to be used for a new purpose that is 
materially different from that for which the personal data was originally collected or 
subsequently authorized, or is to be disclosed to a non-agent third party in a manner not 
specified in this policy, Axon will provide you with an opportunity to choose whether to have 
your personal data so used or disclosed. Requests to opt out of such uses or disclosures of 
Personal Data should be sent to us as specified in the “How to Contact Us” section below.
 Certain personal data, such as information about medical or health conditions, racial or ethnic 
origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, is considered “Sensitive 
Information.” Axon will not use Sensitive Personal for a purpose other than the purpose for 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 72 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 24 of 28
which it was originally collected or subsequently authorized by the individual unless Axon has 
received your affirmative and explicit consent (opt-in).
 Customer Content
Customers may process Personal Data regarding an individual when leveraging Axon Cloud 
Services. In such cases, we are processing such personal data purely on behalf of our 
Customers and any individuals who seek to exercise their rights should first direct their query 
to our Customer, the Data Controller. 
Axon will work with Customers to provide access to Personal Data that Axon or Sub-
processors hold. Axon will also take reasonable steps to enable Customers to correct, amend, 
or delete Personal Data that is demonstrated to be inaccurate.
 Data Retention 
Customer Content
Customer defines Evidence retention periods pursuant to Customer’s internal retention policies 
and procedures. Customer can establish its retention policies within Axon Cloud Services. 
Therefore, Customer controls the retention and deletion of its Evidence within Axon Cloud 
Services.
 Non-Content Data
Axon maintains internal disaster recovery and data retention policies in accordance with 
applicable laws and regulations. The disaster recovery plan relates to Axon's data and extends 
to Axon Cloud Services and Customer Content stored within.
Axon's data retention policies relate to Axon's Non-Content Data. Axon's data retention policies 
instruct for the secure disposal of Non-Content Data when such data is no longer necessary 
for the delivery and support of Axon products and services and in accordance with applicable 
regulations. We will retain Non-Content Data for as long as needed to provide services, comply 
with our legal obligations, resolve disputes, and enforce our agreements.
 Your California Privacy Rights  
Pursuant to the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), as amended by the California 
Privacy Rights Act ("CPRA"), we provide this California Consumer Privacy Act Addendum (the 
"CCPA Addendum") to California residents ("consumers" or "you" or “your”). This CCPA 
Addendum supplements the information contained in our Axon Cloud Services Privacy Notice. 
Any capitalized term used but not defined in this Notice has the meaning given in our Axon 
Cloud Services Privacy Notice. 
This CCPA Addendum does not apply to information we collect about individuals in their 
capacity as present or former job applicants or employees of Axon or the use of the Axon 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 73 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 25 of 28
website. Nor does this amendment cover processing of Customer Content within Axon Cloud 
Services.  
Categories of Personal Information Collected  
Sources of Personal Information 
We obtain the categories of Personal Information listed above directly from you as well as from 
the following categories of sources: our corporate affiliates, third-party business partners, and 
other third-party sources. 
Use of Personal Information 
We use Personal Information for a variety of business and commercial purposes, as described 
this Axon Cloud Services Privacy Notice.
Your Consumer Rights under the CCPA  
California law grants state residents certain rights, including the rights to know and access 
specific types of Personal Data, to learn how we process Personal Data, to request deletion of 
Personal Data, to request correction of Personal Data, to opt-out of sharing your Personal 
Data for third party advertising purposes, and not to be denied goods or services for exercising 
these rights. 
If you would like to exercise any of these rights please contact us at privacy@axon.com.  
Right to Opt-Out of Selling or Sharing 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 74 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 26 of 28
In the preceding 12 months, Axon has not sold or shared (as those terms are defined in the 
CCPA) any Personal Data. 
Authorized Agents 
To make a request as an authorized agent on behalf of a California resident, you may use the 
submission methods noted above. Please provide us with a copy of the consumer’s written 
authorization designating you as their agent. 
Nondiscrimination 
We will not unlawfully discriminate against you for exercising your rights under the CCPA. 
Additional Information about specific Axon Cloud Services
The following information pertains to specific privacy and data processing activities associated 
with certain Axon Cloud Services. If you are a user of any of the below products, please read 
the applicable language carefully.  
Community Request
Community Request services may facilitate the transmission of information and content 
voluntarily submitted including certain metadata associated therewith, (collectively, 
“Submissions”) by an individual completing questionnaires, while using Community 
Request (“Survey Participant”), to our Customer that uses the Community Request service. 
Our Customer which requests Submissions through Community Request receives those 
Submissions - once transmitted, the Submissions remain in the possession of the requesting 
Customer and Axon does not own or control any copies. The Customer is thus the Data 
Controller of Submissions data. The Customer to which a Survey Participants transmits the 
Submission will own and control such Submission, and the privacy practices of Axon’s 
Customer will apply.
Additionally, Community Request automatically collects certain details about a Survey 
Participant usage of Community Request and their device. Axon may automatically collect 
certain details of your access to and use of Community Request, including traffic data, location 
data, logs, and other communication data and the resources that you access and use on or 
through Community Request. We may collect information about your mobile device and 
internet connection, including the operating system, IP address, browser type, and mobile 
network information.
My90
My90 services may facilitate the transmission of information and content voluntarily submitted 
including certain metadata associated therewith, (collectively, “Submissions”) by an individual 
completing questionnaires, while using My90 (“Survey Participant”), to our Customer that 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 75 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 27 of 28
uses the My90 service.  Survey Participants should not submit Personal Data as part of a 
Submission.  If Personal Data is submitted, Axon will remove or de-identify the Submission.
Axon will analyze and aggregate Submissions to evaluate Customer interactions with 
respondents or to obtain insight. For example, this is done to understand the effectiveness of 
existing emergency response processes or to understand sentiment towards My90 Customers. 
This information can help Axon, and its Customers obtain insights and comparison on 
community trends and accordingly implement or recommend implementation of measures to 
improve policing.
Axon may also share aggregated Submissions publicly or privately through various mediums. 
We share this information to provide insights and comparisons on general policing and 
community trends. Prior to sharing this information, Axon will ensure that the Submission has 
been aggregated and de-identified so it can no longer be linked directly to a respondent.
Outside of the usage of Submissions, My90 automatically collects certain details about a 
Survey Participant usage of My90 and their device. Axon may automatically collect certain 
details of your access to and use of My90, including traffic data, location data, logs, and other 
communication data and the resources that you access and use on or through My90. We may 
collect information about your mobile device and internet connection, including the operating 
system, IP address, browser type, and mobile network information.
 Axon Fusus
We process Customer Content on behalf of and as a Data Processor, and to the extent 
necessary to provide Services to our Customers. To provide our Customers with our Services, 
we may process and store Customer Content that is captured and recorded when our 
Customers and their users operate our Products and other Services, such as video or audio 
recordings, live video or audio streams, images, comments, and data our products collect from 
their surrounding environment to perform their functions (such as motion, events, temperature 
and ambient light). The Customer is thus the Data Controller of Customer Content collected by 
Fusus and the privacy practices of Axon’s Customer will apply.
Axon Fusus Terms of Use prohibits the use of cameras set by our Customers with our Platform 
or other Services in locations where a person has a reasonable expectation of privacy. We 
require our Customers to conduct any video monitoring through our Services in compliance 
with applicable laws, regulations and policies, including non-discrimination, sexual harassment, 
among others. Therefore, monitoring in the bathrooms, locker rooms, or other areas where 
individuals have a reasonable expectation of privacy is prohibited;
Axon Fusus Terms of Use also specifies that the camera positions and views are limited to 
open, common and public areas, unless otherwise permitted by a court order authorized by a 
court of competent jurisdiction relating to an investigation by a law enforcement agency.
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 76 ---
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS
Page 28 of 28
Additionally, Axon Fusus may automatically collect certain details about users of Axon Fusus 
Products or Services. Axon may automatically collect certain details of your access to and use 
of Axon Fusus Products or Services, including traffic data, location data, logs, and other 
communication data and the resources that you access and use on or through Axon Fusus 
Products or Services.
How to Contact Us
If you have any questions or concerns regarding Axon's privacy practices or the content of this 
Notice, please contact privacy@axon.com.
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 77 ---
12/27/2024 
CJISSECPOL v6.0 
H-6
EXHIBIT E, FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 
CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION SERVICES 
SECURITY ADDENDUM 
The goal of this document is to augment the CJIS Security Policy to ensure adequate 
security is provided for criminal justice systems while (1) under the control or management of 
a private entity or (2) connectivity to FBI CJIS Systems has been provided to a private entity 
(contractor).  Adequate security is defined in Office of Management and Budget Circular A-
130 as “security commensurate with the risk and magnitude of harm resulting from the loss, 
misuse, or unauthorized access to or modification of information.” 
The intent of this Security Addendum is to require that the Contractor maintain a 
security program consistent with federal and state laws, regulations, and standards (including 
the CJIS Security Policy in effect when the contract is executed), as well as with policies and 
standards established by the Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) Advisory Policy 
Board (APB). 
This Security Addendum identifies the duties and responsibilities with respect to the 
installation and maintenance of adequate internal controls within the contractual relationship so 
that the security and integrity of the FBI’s information resources are not compromised.  The 
security program shall include consideration of personnel security, site security, system 
security, and data security, and technical security. 
The provisions of this Security Addendum apply to all personnel, systems, networks and 
support facilities supporting and/or acting on behalf of the government agency. 
1.00 
Definitions 
1.01 
Contracting Government Agency (CGA) – the government agency, whether a Criminal 
Justice Agency or a Noncriminal Justice Agency, which enters into an agreement with a private 
contractor  subject to this Security Addendum. 
1.02 
Contractor – a private business, organization or individual which has entered into an 
agreement for the administration of criminal justice with a Criminal Justice Agency or a 
Noncriminal Justice Agency. 
2.00 
Responsibilities of the Contracting Government Agency. 
2.01 
The CGA will ensure that each Contractor employee receives a copy of the Security 
Addendum and the CJIS Security Policy and executes an acknowledgment of such receipt and 
the contents of the Security Addendum.  The signed acknowledgments shall remain in the 
possession of the CGA and available for audit purposes.  The acknowledgement may be signed 
by hand or via digital signature (see glossary for definition of digital signature). 
3.00 
Responsibilities of the Contractor. 
3.01 
The Contractor will maintain a security program consistent with federal and state laws, 
regulations, and standards (including the CJIS Security Policy in effect when the contract is 
executed and all subsequent versions), as well as with policies and standards established by the 
Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) Advisory Policy Board (APB). 
4.00 
Security Violations. 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 78 ---
12/27/2024 
 
CJISSECPOL v6.0 
H-7
4.01 
The CGA must report security violations to the CJIS Systems Officer (CSO) and the 
Director, FBI, along with indications of actions taken by the CGA and Contractor. 
4.02 
Security violations can justify termination of the appended agreement. 
4.03 
Upon notification, the FBI reserves the right to: 
 
a. Investigate or decline to investigate any report of unauthorized use; 
 
b. Suspend or terminate access and services, including telecommunications links.  The 
FBI will provide the CSO with timely written notice of the suspension.  Access and 
services will be reinstated only after satisfactory assurances have been provided to 
the FBI by the CGA and Contractor.  Upon termination, the Contractor’s records 
containing CHRI must be deleted or returned to the CGA. 
5.00 
Audit 
5.01 
The FBI is authorized to perform a final audit of the Contractor’s systems after 
termination of the Security Addendum. 
6.00 
Scope and Authority 
6.01 
This Security Addendum does not confer, grant, or authorize any rights, privileges, or 
obligations on any persons other than the Contractor, CGA, CJA (where applicable), CSA, and 
FBI. 
6.02 
The following documents are incorporated by reference and made part of this 
agreement: (1) the Security Addendum; (2) the NCIC 2000 Operating Manual; (3) the CJIS 
Security Policy; and (4) Title 28, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 20.  The parties are also 
subject to applicable federal and state laws and regulations. 
6.03 
The terms set forth in this document do not constitute the sole understanding by and 
between the parties hereto; rather they augment the provisions of the CJIS Security Policy to 
provide a minimum basis for the security of the system and contained information and it is 
understood that there may be terms and conditions of the appended Agreement which impose 
more stringent requirements upon the Contractor. 
6.04 
This Security Addendum may only be modified by the FBI, and may not be modified 
by the parties to the appended Agreement without the consent of the FBI. 
6.05 
All notices and correspondence shall be forwarded by First Class mail to: 
 
Information Security Officer 
Criminal Justice Information Services Division, FBI 
1000 Custer Hollow Road 
Clarksburg, West Virginia  26306 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 79 ---
12/27/2024 
CJISSECPOL v6.0 
H-8
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 
CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION SERVICES 
SECURITY ADDENDUM 
CERTIFICATION 
I hereby certify that I am familiar with the contents of (1) the Security Addendum, 
including its legal authority and purpose; (2) the NCIC Operating Manual; (3) the CJIS Security 
Policy; and (4) Title 28, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 20, and agree to be bound by their 
provisions. 
I recognize that criminal history record information and related data, by its very nature, 
is sensitive and has potential for great harm if misused.  I acknowledge that access to criminal 
history record information and related data is therefore limited to the purpose(s) for which a 
government agency has entered into the contract incorporating this Security Addendum.  I 
understand that misuse of the system by, among other things:  accessing it without 
authorization; accessing it by exceeding authorization; accessing it for an improper purpose; 
using, disseminating or re-disseminating information received as a result of this contract for a 
purpose other than that envisioned by the contract, may subject me to administrative and 
criminal penalties.  I understand that accessing the system for an appropriate purpose and then 
using, disseminating or re-disseminating the information received for another purpose other 
than execution of the contract also constitutes misuse.  I further understand that the occurrence 
of misuse does not depend upon whether or not I receive additional compensation for such 
authorized activity.  Such exposure for misuse includes, but is not limited to, suspension or loss 
of employment and prosecution for state and federal crimes. 
_______________________________________ 
_______________ 
Printed Name/Signature of Contractor Employee  
Date 
_______________ 
_____________________________________ 
Printed Name/Signature of Contractor Representative 
Date 
Organization and Title of Contractor Representative 
Axon Enterprise, Inc.    /  CISO
Benjamin Hagen
Docusign Envelope ID: 32EF8C81-7AA1-4A17-9DF4-106AF5F0303A
2/19/2025 | 10:23 AM MST
2/19/2025 | 10:23 AM MST
Charles Fehrman
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 80 ---
Exhibit F, Master Services and Purchasing Agreement
Version: 25
Release Date:
 
Page 1 of 12
This Exhibit F is attached to and made a part of Framework Agreement No. 202683606 between the City and County 
of Denver and Axon Enterprise, Inc. (the "Agreement"). This Exhibit is incorporated into the Agreement as of the 
Effective Date and is subject to all terms and conditions of the Agreement. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency 
between this Exhibit and the Agreement, the Agreement controls in accordance with the Order of Precedence set 
forth in § 31 thereof. This Exhibit applies solely to the City's purchase and use of the Axon devices and services 
identified in the applicable Quote. All capitalized terms used but not defined in this Exhibit have the meanings given 
to them in the Agreement. This Exhibit does not create an independent contractual relationship between the Parties 
and may not be construed as a standalone agreement. No term, condition, or provision of this Exhibit modifies, 
waives, or supersedes any provision of the Agreement unless expressly agreed to by both Parties in a written 
amendment executed by authorized representatives.
1.
Definitions.
1.1.
"Axon Cloud Services" means Axon’s web services, but excludes third-party applications, hardware 
warranties, and my.evidence.com.
1.2.
"Axon Device" means all hardware provided by Axon under this Agreement. Axon-manufactured Devices are 
a subset of Axon Devices.
1.3.
"Quote" means an offer to sell and is only valid for devices and services on the offer at the specified prices. 
Any inconsistent or supplemental terms within Customer’s purchase order in response to a Quote will be void. 
Orders are subject to prior credit approval. Changes in the deployment estimated ship date may change 
charges in the Quote. Shipping dates are estimates only. Axon is not responsible for typographical errors in 
any Quote by Axon, and Axon reserves the right to cancel any orders resulting from such errors. 
1.4.
"Services" means all services provided by Axon under this Agreement, including software, Axon Cloud 
Services, and professional services.
2.
Term. This Agreement begins on the Effective Date and continues until all subscriptions hereunder have expired or 
have been terminated ("Term").
2.1.
All subscription plans begin on the date stated in the Quote. Each subscription term ends upon completion of 
the subscription stated in the Quote ("Subscription Term"). 
3.
Taxes. Customer is responsible for sales and other taxes associated with the order unless Customer provides Axon 
a valid tax exemption certificate. 
4.
Shipping. Axon may make partial shipments and ship Axon Devices from multiple locations. All shipments are EXW 
(Incoterms 2020) via common carrier. Title and risk of loss pass to Customer upon Axon’s delivery to the common 
carrier. Customer is responsible for any shipping charges in the Quote. 
5.
Returns. All sales are final. Axon does not allow refunds or exchanges, except warranty returns or as provided by 
state or federal law. 
6.
Warranty.
6.1.
Limited Warranty. Axon warrants that Axon-manufactured Devices, except for TASER devices covered under 
the TASER Appendix, are free from defects in workmanship and materials for one (1) year from the date of 
Customer’s receipt, except Signal Sidearm which Axon warrants for thirty (30) months from Customer’s receipt 
and Axon-manufactured accessories, which Axon warrants for ninety (90) days from Customer’s receipt, 
respectively, from the date of Customer’s receipt. Extended warranties run from the expiration of the one- (1-) 
year hardware warranty through the extended warranty term purchased. 
6.2.
Disclaimer. All software and Axon Cloud Services are provided "AS IS," without any warranty of any 
kind, either express or implied, including without limitation the implied warranties of merchantability, 
fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement. Axon Devices and Services that are not 
manufactured, published or performed by Axon ("Third-Party Products") are not covered by Axon’s 
warranty and are only subject to the warranties of the third-party provider or manufacturer. If Customer 
purchases Axon Loki, Customer acknowledges the Loki device is designed for operation in enclosed, 
controlled environments and must be used in compliance with all applicable laws and safety 
guidelines. Operation in open or unapproved areas may result in signal interference, loss of control, 
or damage, and Axon assumes no liability for improper use, including any resulting harm or regulatory 
violations.
6.3.
Claims. If Axon receives a valid warranty claim for an Axon-manufactured Device during the warranty term, 
Axon’s sole responsibility is to repair or replace the Axon-manufactured Device with the same or like Axon-
manufactured Device, at Axon’s option. A replacement Axon-manufactured Device will be new or like new. 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 81 ---
Exhibit F, Master Services and Purchasing Agreement
Version: 25
Release Date:
 
Page 2 of 12
Axon will warrant the replacement Axon-manufactured Device for the longer of (a) the remaining warranty of 
the original Axon-manufactured Device or (b) ninety (90) days from the date of repair or replacement. 
6.3.1.
If Customer exchanges an Axon Device or part, the replacement item becomes Customer’s property, 
and the replaced item becomes Axon’s property. Before delivering an Axon-manufactured Device for 
service, Customer must upload Axon-manufactured Device data to Axon Evidence or download it and 
retain a copy. Axon is not responsible for any loss of software, data, or other information contained in 
storage media or any part of the Axon-manufactured Device sent to Axon for service. 
6.4.
Spare Axon Devices. At Axon's reasonable discretion, Axon may provide Customer a predetermined number 
of spare Axon Devices as detailed in the Quote ("Spare Axon Devices"). Spare Axon Devices are intended to 
replace broken or non-functioning units while Customer submits the broken or non-functioning units, through 
Axon’s warranty return process. Axon will repair or replace the unit with a replacement Axon Device. Title and 
risk of loss for all Spare Axon Devices shall pass to Customer in accordance with shipping terms of this 
Agreement. Axon assumes no liability or obligation in the event Customer does not utilize Spare Axon Devices 
for the intended purpose.
6.5.
Limitations. Axon’s warranty excludes damage related to: (a) failure to follow Axon Device use instructions; 
(b) Axon Devices used with equipment not manufactured or recommended by Axon; (c) abuse, misuse, or 
intentional damage to Axon Device; (d) force majeure; (e) Axon Devices repaired or modified by persons other 
than Axon without Axon’s written permission; or (f) Axon Devices with a defaced or removed serial number. 
Axon’s warranty will be void if Customer resells Axon Devices.
6.5.1.
To the extent permitted by law, the above warranties and remedies are exclusive. Axon 
disclaims all other warranties, remedies, and conditions, whether oral, written, statutory, or 
implied. If statutory or implied warranties cannot be lawfully disclaimed, then such warranties 
are limited to the duration of the warranty described above and by the provisions in this 
Agreement. Customer confirms and agrees that, in deciding whether to sign this Agreement, 
Customer has not relied on any statement or representation by Axon or anyone acting on behalf 
of Axon related to the subject matter of this Agreement that is not in this Agreement.
6.6.
Online Support Platforms. Use of Axon's online support platforms (e.g., Axon Academy and MyAxon) is 
governed by the Axon Online Support Platforms Terms of Use Appendix available at www.axon.com/sales-
terms-and-conditions. 
6.7.
Third-Party Hardware, Software and Services. Use of hardware, software, or services other than those 
provided by Axon is governed by the terms, if any, entered into between Customer and the respective third-
party provider, including, without limitation, the terms applicable to such software or services located at 
www.axon.com/sales-terms-and-conditions, if any. 
6.8.
Axon Aid. Upon mutual agreement between Axon and Customer, Axon may provide certain products and 
services to Customer, as a charitable donation under the Axon Aid program. In such event, Customer expressly 
waives and releases any and all claims, now known or hereafter known, against Axon and its officers, directors, 
employees, agents, contractors, affiliates, successors, and assigns (collectively, "Releasees"), including but 
not limited to, on account of injury, death, property damage, or loss of data, arising out of or attributable to the 
Axon Aid program whether arising out of the negligence of any Releasees or otherwise. Customer agrees not 
to make or bring any such claim against any Release, and forever release and discharge all Releasees from 
liability under such claims. Customer expressly allows Axon to publicly announce its participation in Axon Aid 
and use its name in marketing materials. Axon may terminate the Axon Aid program without cause immediately 
upon notice to the Customer.
7.
Free Trial.
7.1. Trial Period and License.  At any time during the Term, Customer and Axon may elect to enter a free trial of 
Axon Devices and Services new to the Customer for a designated period (“Trial Period”) as described in a 
quote issued (“Trial Quote”).  During the Trial Period, Axon grants Customer a nonexclusive, terminable, non-
transferable, license to use new Axon Devices and Services provided for trial to the Customer (“Trial Products”). 
Trial Products may include Axon beta software or firmware which additional terms may be required and included 
within the Trial Quote. Axon may limit the number of Trial Products Customer receives within the Trial Quote. 
Axon may supply refurbished Trial Products. ALL FREE TRIAL PRODUCTS INCLUDING, WITHOUT 
LIMITATION, AXON CLOUD SERVICES, ARE PROVIDED “AS IS” AND TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED 
BY LAW, AXON DISCLAIMS ALL LIABILITY REGARDLESS OF THE CLAIM.
7.2. Trial Quote Termination.  Upon at least 10 business days’ prior written notice to Axon at any time prior to the 
end of the Trial Period, Customer may as its sole option, terminate the free Trial Period and underlying Trial 
Quote associated with the Trial Products for convenience. Customer’s rights to the Trial Products will 
immediately terminate at the end of the Trial Period, and Customer will return any Trial Products hardware to 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 82 ---
Exhibit F, Master Services and Purchasing Agreement
Version: 25
Release Date:
 
Page 3 of 12
Axon within 10 days after the effective date of such termination or at the end of the Trial Period, excluding used 
CEW cartridges. If any individual component of the Trial Products is not returned, Axon will invoice Customer 
the MSRP of the unreturned items. Customer agrees to pay the invoice along with any applicable taxes and 
shipping. Customer will return the Trial Products to Axon in good working condition, minus normal wear and 
tear. Axon may charge Customer if there is damage beyond normal wear and tear. Any Customer Content shall 
be stored and returned pursuant to the Axon Cloud Services Terms of Use Appendix
8.
Statement of Work. Certain Axon Devices and Services, including, but not limited to, Axon Interview Room, Axon 
Channel Services, Axon Justice Implementation, FUSUS, and Axon Fleet, may require a Statement of Work that 
details Axon’s Service deliverables ("SOW"). In the event Axon provides an SOW to Customer, Axon is only 
responsible for the performance of Services described in the SOW. Additional services outside of the SOW, Quote, 
or this Agreement are out of scope. The Parties must document scope changes in a written and signed change order. 
Changes may require an equitable adjustment in fees or schedule.  Any applicable SOW is incorporated into this 
Agreement by reference.
9.
Axon Device Warnings. See www.axon.com/legal for the most current Axon Device warnings.
10. Design Changes. Axon may make design or feature changes to any Axon Device or Service without notifying 
Customer or making the same change to Axon Devices and Services previously purchased by Customer. 
11. Combined Offerings. Some offerings in a Quote combine existing and pre-released Axon Devices or Services. 
Some offerings may not be available at the time of Customer’s purchase. Axon will not provide a refund, credit, or 
additional discount beyond what is in the Quote due to delay of availability or Customer’s choice not to utilize any 
portion of a combined offering.
12. IP Rights. Axon owns and reserves all right, title, and interest in Axon-manufactured Devices and Services and 
suggestions to Axon, including all related intellectual property rights. Customer will not cause any Axon proprietary 
rights to be violated.
13. Customer Responsibilities. Customer is responsible for (a) Customer’s use of Axon Devices; (b) Customer or a 
Customer-authorized user’s breach of this Agreement or violation of applicable law; (c) disputes between Customer 
and a third-party over Customer’s use of Axon Devices; (d) secure and sustainable destruction and disposal of Axon 
Devices at Customer’s cost; and (e) any regulatory violations or fines, as a result of improper destruction or disposal 
of Axon Devices. 
14. Termination.
14.1. Effect of Termination. Upon termination of this Agreement, Customer rights immediately terminate. Customer 
remains responsible for all fees incurred before the effective date of termination. If Customer purchases Axon 
Devices for less than the manufacturer’s suggested retail price ("MSRP") and this Agreement terminates before 
the end of the Term, Axon will invoice Customer the difference between the MSRP for Axon Devices procured, 
including any Spare Axon Devices, and amounts paid towards those Axon Devices. Only if terminating for non-
appropriation, Customer may return Axon Devices to Axon within thirty (30) days of termination. MSRP is the 
standalone price of the individual Axon Device at the time of sale. For multiple Axon Devices that may be 
combined as a single offering on a Quote, MSRP is the standalone price of all individual components.
15. General. 
15.1. Compliance with Laws. Each Party will comply with all applicable federal, state, and local laws, including 
without limitation, import and export control laws and regulations as well as firearm regulations and the Gun 
Control Act of 1968. Customer acknowledges that Axon Devices and Services are subject to U.S. and 
international export control laws, including the U.S. Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and International 
Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR).  Customer represents and warrants that neither it nor any End User is a 
"Restricted Person," meaning any individual or entity that (1) is subject to U.S. sanctions or trade restrictions, 
(2) appears on any U.S. government restricted party list, (3) engages in prohibited weapons proliferation 
activities, or (4) is owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf of, such persons or entities. Customer must 
promptly notify Axon of any change in status, and Axon may terminate this Agreement if Customer or any End 
User becomes a Restricted Person or violates export laws.
15.2. Waiver. No waiver or delay by either Party in exercising any right under this Agreement constitutes a waiver 
of that right. 
15.3. Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction holds any portion of this Agreement invalid or unenforceable, 
the remaining portions of this Agreement will remain in effect.
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 83 ---
Master Services and Purchasing Agreement
Version: 25
Release Date:
 
Page 4 of 12
Axon Cloud Services Terms of Use Appendix
1.
Definitions.
1.1. “Data Controller” means the natural or legal person, public authority, or any other body which alone or 
jointly with others determines the purposes and means of the processing of Personal Data. 
1.2. “Data Processor” means a natural or legal person, public authority or any other body which processes 
Personal Data on behalf of the Data Controller. 
1.3. "Customer Content" is data uploaded into, ingested by, or created in Axon Cloud Services within 
Customer’s tenant, including media or multimedia uploaded into Axon Cloud Services by Customer. 
Customer Content includes Evidence but excludes Non-Content Data. 
1.4. "Evidence" is media or multimedia uploaded into Axon Evidence as 'evidence' by Customer. Evidence is 
a subset of Customer Content.
1.5. “End User” means the natural person subject to Customer’s authorized license grant who ultimately uses 
the Cloud Services as provided under this Agreement. End Users must adhere to the terms of use and are 
subject to any usage restrictions or limitations specified in this Agreement.
1.6. "Non-Content Data" is data, configuration, and usage information about Customer’s Axon Cloud Services 
tenant, Axon Devices and client software, and users that is transmitted or generated when using Axon 
Devices. Non-Content Data includes data about users captured during account management and customer 
support activities. Non-Content Data does not include Customer Content.
1.7. "Personal Data" means any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person. An 
identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to 
an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or to one or more 
factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that 
natural person. 
1.8. "Provided Data" means de-identified, de-personalized, data derived from Customer's TASER energy 
weapon deployment reports, related TASER energy weapon logs, body-worn camera footage, and incident 
reports.
1.9. “Subprocessor” means any third party engaged by the Data Processor to assist in data processing 
activities that the Data Processor is carrying out on behalf of the Data Controller.
1.10."Transformed Data" means the Provided Data used for the purpose of quantitative evaluation of the 
performance and effectiveness of TASER energy weapons in the field across a variety of circumstances.
2.
Access. Upon Axon granting Customer a subscription to Axon Cloud Services, Customer may access and use 
Axon Cloud Services to store and manage Customer Content. Customer may not exceed the total number of 
End Users specified in the Quote. Axon Air requires an Axon Evidence subscription for each drone operator. For 
Axon Evidence access granted solely for TASER, Customer may access and use Axon Evidence only to store 
and manage TASER CEW data ("TASER Data") and Customer may not upload non-TASER Data to Axon 
Evidence.
3.
Customer Owns Customer Content. Customer controls and owns all rights, title, and interest in Customer 
Content. Except as outlined herein, Axon obtains no interest in Customer Content, and Customer Content is not 
Axon’s business records. Customer is solely responsible for uploading, sharing, managing, and deleting 
Customer Content. Axon will only have access to Customer Content for the limited purposes set forth herein. 
Customer agrees to allow Axon access to Customer Content to (a) perform troubleshooting, maintenance, or 
diagnostic screenings; and (b) enforce this Agreement or policies governing use of the Axon products.
4.
Security. Axon will implement commercially reasonable and appropriate measures to secure Customer Content 
against accidental or unlawful loss, access or disclosure. Axon will maintain a comprehensive information security 
program to protect Axon Cloud Services and Customer Content including logical, physical access, vulnerability, 
risk, and configuration management; incident monitoring and response; encryption of uploaded digital evidence; 
security education; and data protection.  Axon agrees to the Federal Bureau of Investigation Criminal Justice 
Information Services Security Addendum for its digital evidence or records management systems.
5.
Customer Responsibilities. Customer is responsible for (a) ensuring Customer owns Customer Content or has 
the necessary rights to use Customer Content (b) ensuring no Customer Content or Customer End User’s use 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 84 ---
Master Services and Purchasing Agreement
Version: 25
Release Date:
 
Page 5 of 12
of Customer Content or Axon Cloud Services violates this Agreement or applicable laws; (c) maintaining 
necessary computer equipment and Internet connections for use of Axon Cloud Services and (d) verify the 
accuracy of any auto generated or AI-generated reports. If Customer becomes aware of any violation of this 
Agreement by an End User, Customer will immediately terminate that End User’s access to Axon Cloud Services.
5.1. Customer will also maintain the security of End User usernames and passwords and security and access 
by end users to Customer Content. Customer is responsible for ensuring the configuration and utilization 
of Axon Cloud Services meet applicable Customer regulation and standards. Customer may not sell, 
transfer, or sublicense access to any other entity or person. If Customer provides access to unauthorized 
third-parties, Axon may assess additional fees along with suspending Customer’s access. Customer shall 
contact Axon immediately if an unauthorized party may be using Customer’s account or Customer Content, 
or if account information is lost or stolen.
5.2. To the extent Customer uses the Axon Cloud Services to interact with YouTube®, such use may be 
governed by the YouTube Terms of Service, available at https://www.youtube.com/static?template=terms.
6.
Privacy. Customer’s use of Axon Cloud Services is subject to the Axon Cloud Services Privacy Policy, a current 
version of which is available at https://www.axon.com/legal/cloud-services-privacy-policy. Customer agrees to 
allow Axon access to Non-Content Data from Customer to (a) perform troubleshooting, maintenance, or 
diagnostic screenings; (b) provide, develop, improve, and support current and future Axon products and related 
services; and (c) enforce this Agreement or policies governing the use of Axon products.
7.
Storage. For Axon Unlimited Device Storage subscriptions, Customer may store unlimited data in 
Customer's Axon Evidence account only if the Axon Device data is shared to Customer through Axon Evidence 
from a partner agency using Axon Evidence, or the data originates from Axon Capture or an Axon Device. Axon 
may charge Customer additional fees for exceeding purchased storage amounts. Axon may place Customer 
Content that Customer has not viewed or accessed for six (6) months into archival storage. Customer Content 
in archival storage will not have immediate availability and may take up to twenty-four (24) hours to access.
7.1. Third-Party Unlimited Storage. For Third-Party Unlimited Storage the following restrictions apply: (i) it 
may only be used in conjunction with a valid Axon Evidence user license; (ii) is limited to data of the law 
enforcement Customer that purchased the Third-Party Unlimited Storage and the Axon Evidence End 
User; (iii) Customer is prohibited from storing data for other customers or law enforcement agencies; and 
(iv) Customer may only upload and store data that is directly related to (1) the investigation of, or the 
prosecution or defense of a crime, (2) common law enforcement activities, or (3) any Customer Content 
created by Axon Devices or Axon Evidence.
7.2. Location of Storage. Axon may transfer Customer Content to third-party subcontractors for storage. Axon 
will determine the locations of data centers for storage of Customer Content If Customer is located in the 
United States, Canada, or Australia, Axon will ensure all Customer Content stored in Axon Cloud Services 
remains in the country where Customer is located Ownership of Customer Content remains with Customer.
8.
Suspension. Axon may temporarily suspend Customer’s or any End User’s right to access or use any portion 
or all of Axon Cloud Services immediately upon notice, if Customer or End User’s use of or registration for Axon 
Cloud Services may (a) pose a security risk to Axon Cloud Services or any third-party; (b) adversely impact Axon 
Cloud Services, the systems, or content of any other customer; (c) subject Axon, Axon’s affiliates, or any third-
party to liability; or (d) be fraudulent. Customer remains responsible for all fees incurred through suspension. 
Axon will not delete Customer Content because of suspension, except as specified in this Agreement.
9.
Axon Cloud Services Warranty. Axon disclaims any warranties or responsibility for data corruption or errors 
before Customer uploads data to Axon Cloud Services Service Offerings will be subject to the Axon Cloud 
Services 
Service 
Level 
Agreement, 
a 
current 
version 
of 
which 
is 
available 
at 
https://www.axon.com/products/axon-evidence/sla.
10. Roles of the Parties. To the extent that Customer is the Data Controller of Personal Data, Axon is its Data 
Processor. To the extent that Customer is a Data Processor of Personal Data, Axon is its 
Subprocessor.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent any usage data (including query logs and metadata) 
and/or operations data (including billing and support data) in connection with Customer’s use of the Services 
(collectively “Usage and Operations Data”) is considered Personal Data, Axon is an independent Data Controller 
and shall Process such data in accordance with the Agreement and applicable data protection laws to develop, 
improve, support, and operate its products and services.  For the avoidance of doubt, Axon will not disclose any 
Usage and Operations Data that includes confidential information with a third party except (a) in accordance with 
the relevant confidentiality provisions in the Agreement, or (b) to the extent the Usage and Operations Data is, 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 85 ---
Master Services and Purchasing Agreement
Version: 25
Release Date:
 
Page 6 of 12
in accordance with applicable data protection laws, anonymized, de-identified, and/or aggregated such that it can 
no longer directly or indirectly identify Customer or any particular individual.
11. Axon Cloud Services Restrictions. Customer and Customer End Users (including employees, contractors, 
agents, officers, volunteers, and directors), may not, or may not attempt to: 
11.1.copy, modify, tamper with, repair, or create derivative works of any part of Axon Cloud Services; 
11.2.reverse engineer, disassemble, or decompile Axon Cloud Services or apply any process to derive any 
source code included in Axon Cloud Services, or allow others to do the same;
11.3.access or use Axon Cloud Services with the intent to gain unauthorized access, avoid incurring fees or 
exceeding usage limits or quotas;
11.4.use trade secret information contained in Axon Cloud Services, except as expressly permitted in this 
Agreement;
11.5.access Axon Cloud Services to build a competitive device or service or copy any features, functions, or 
graphics of Axon Cloud Services;
11.6.remove, alter, or obscure any confidentiality or proprietary rights notices (including copyright and trademark 
notices) of Axon’s or Axon’s licensors on or within Axon Cloud Services; or
11.7.use Axon Cloud Services to store or transmit infringing, libelous, or other unlawful or tortious material; 
material in violation of third-party privacy rights; or malicious code.
12. After Termination. Axon will not delete Customer Content for ninety (90) days following termination. Axon Cloud 
Services will not be functional during these ninety (90) days other than the ability to retrieve Customer Content. 
Customer will not incur additional fees if Customer downloads Customer Content from Axon Cloud Services 
during this time. Axon has no obligation to maintain or provide Customer Content after these ninety (90) days 
and will thereafter, unless legally prohibited, delete all Customer Content. Upon request, Axon will provide written 
proof that Axon successfully deleted and fully removed all Customer Content from Axon Cloud Services. 
13. Post-Termination Assistance. Axon will provide Customer with the same post-termination data retrieval 
assistance that Axon generally makes available to all customers. Requests for Axon to provide additional 
assistance in downloading or transferring Customer Content, including requests for Axon’s data egress service, 
will result in additional fees and Axon will not warrant or guarantee data integrity or readability in the external 
system.
14. U.S. Government Rights. If Customer is a U.S. Federal department or using Axon Cloud Services on behalf of 
a U.S. Federal department, Axon Cloud Services is provided as a "commercial item," "commercial computer 
software," "commercial computer software documentation," and "technical data", as defined in the Federal 
Acquisition Regulation and Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement. If Customer is using Axon Cloud 
Services on behalf of the U.S. Government and these terms fail to meet the U.S. Government’s needs or are 
inconsistent in any respect with federal law, Customer will immediately discontinue use of Axon Cloud Services. 
15. Survival. Upon any termination of this Agreement, the following sections in this Appendix will survive: Customer 
Owns Customer Content, Privacy, Storage, Axon Cloud Services Warranty, Customer Responsibilities and Axon 
Cloud Services Restrictions.
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 86 ---
Master Services and Purchasing Agreement
Version: 25
Release Date:
 
Page 7 of 12
 Axon Customer Experience Improvement Program Appendix
The ACEIP is designed to accelerate Axon’s development of technology, such as building and supporting automated 
features, aiming to increase safety within communities and efficiency in public safety. Axon may make limited use of 
Customer Content from participating customers to provide, develop, improve, and support current and future Axon 
products (collectively, “ACEIP Purposes”). ACEIP has 2 modes of participation, Basic and Custom. Customer is enrolled 
in ACEIP Basic by default. If Customer does not want to participate in ACEIP Basic, ACEIP Custom, or both, Customer 
can revoke its consent at any time via email to aceip@axon.com.
 
Axon Obligations
 
ACEIP Basic
When Axon uses Customer Content for ACEIP Purposes, Axon will:
•
Use Customer Content only for ACEIP Purposes.
•
Prohibit direct human access to Customer Content, including by Axon personnel and subprocessors, except as 
needed to perform or validate deletion. 
•
Retain Customer Content only as long as needed to create Transformed Content (defined below) and validate 
the transformations.
•
Apply privacy-preserving transformations that remove identifying information appropriate to the use case 
(“Transformed Content”). AI model weights and similar insights that do not contain Customer Content are 
Transformed Content. Transformed Content is not Customer Content.
•
Retain and permit direct human access to Transformed Content for ACEIP Purposes.
•
Maintain security, privacy, and data governance programs as described in the Axon Cloud Services Terms 
Appendix, and apply them to ACEIP.
Transparency Portal Publication
 Before activating a use case, Axon will publish it on the Axon Transparency Portal, including the product development 
purpose, data types involved, and privacy-preserving techniques used. Axon will also notify ACEIP participants when 
the Transparency Portal is updated with a new or materially changed use case. Fifteen (15) calendar days after 
notification, Axon may activate the use case for all Basic participants.
 
Opt Out
Customer may opt out of ACEIP Basic at any time via aceip@axon.com. Axon endeavors to implement opt outs within 
fifteen (15) calendar days. Transformations of Customer Content cease when Axon implements the opt out. Axon may 
retain Transformed Content created before it implemented the opt out request.
 
ACEIP Custom 
Custom use cases may be governed by separate written terms between Axon and Customer. Those terms will control 
that use case. Please direct inquiries regarding Custom participation to aceip@axon.com.
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 87 ---
Master Services and Purchasing Agreement
Version: 25
Release Date:
 
Page 8 of 12
Axon ALPR Appendix
If Axon Fleet 2, Axon Fleet 3, or any future generation of Axon Fleet (collectively, “Axon Fleet”) or Axon Outpost or Axon 
Lightpost (collectively all “ALPR Products”) is included on the Quote, this Appendix applies.
1.
Customer Responsibilities.
1.1. Customer must ensure its infrastructure and vehicles adhere to the minimum requirements to operate Axon 
ALPR Products as established by Axon during the qualifier call and on-site assessment at Customer and in any 
technical qualifying questions. If Customer’s representations are inaccurate, the Quote is subject to change.
1.2. Customer is responsible for providing a suitable work area for Axon or Axon third-party providers to install Axon 
ALPR Products  into Customer vehicles and/or  at designated installation location(s).s Customer is responsible 
for making available all vehicles for which installation services were purchased and preparing all installation 
sites, during the agreed upon onsite installation dates, Failure to make vehicles available or prepare installation 
sites may require an equitable adjustment in fees or schedule
2.
Third-party Installer. Axon will not be liable for the failure of Axon Fleet, Axon Outpost, or Axon Lightpost hardware 
to operate per specifications if such failure results from installation not performed by, or as directed by Axon.
3.
Axon Fleet Specific Terms.
3.1. Cradlepoint. If Customer purchases Cradlepoint hardware, software, or services, Customer will comply with 
Cradlepoint’s end user license agreement. The term of the Cradlepoint license may differ from the Axon 
Evidence Subscription. If Customer requires Cradlepoint support, Customer will contact Cradlepoint directly. 
By accepting a Quote including Cradlepoint products, Customer designates and authorizes Axon as its partner 
of record for purposes of Cradlepoint product renewals, support coordination, and other relevant functions. 
This designation applies to all Cradlepoint products acquired by Customer during the Subscription Term of the 
applicable Quote whether directly from Cradlepoint, through Axon, or through any third-party vendor or 
distributor.  Axon shall have no liability to Customer or any third party arising out of or relating to Axon’s acts or 
omissions as the Partner of Record. Customer has the right to opt out of this authorization at any time by 
providing prior written notification to both Axon and Cradlepoint. Upon such notification, the designation will be 
removed. This authorization remains effective until formally removed in accordance with this section or as 
otherwise agreed between the parties in the Agreement.
3.2. Axon Vehicle Software License. Axon grants Customer a non-exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide, perpetual 
license to use ViewXL or Dashboard (collectively, "Axon Vehicle Software".) "Use" means storing, loading, 
installing, or executing Axon Vehicle Software solely for data communication with Axon Devices. The Axon 
Vehicle Software term begins upon the start of the Axon Evidence Subscription
3.3. Restrictions.  Customer may not: (a) modify, alter, tamper with, repair, or create derivative works of Axon 
Vehicle Software; (b) reverse engineer, disassemble, or decompile Axon Vehicle Software, apply any process 
to derive the source code of Axon Vehicle Software, or allow others to do so; (c) access or use Axon Vehicle 
Software to avoid incurring fees or exceeding usage limits; (d) copy Axon Vehicle Software in whole or part; 
(e) use trade secret information contained in Axon Vehicle Software; (f) resell, rent, loan or sublicense Axon 
Vehicle Software; (g) access Axon Vehicle Software to build a competitive device or service or copy any 
features, functions or graphics of Axon Vehicle Software; or (h) remove, alter or obscure any confidentiality or 
proprietary rights notices (including copyright and trademark notices) of Axon or Axon’s licensors on or within 
Axon Vehicle Software.
16. Axon Outpost Specific Terms.
3.4. Outpost License and Permits. Customers will obtain, maintain all legally required permits, authorizations, 
and/or licensing in order to place, maintain, and/or remove the Axon Outpost device at the installation location 
including licenses or permits for fixed installation of poles. If mutually agreed by the parties, Axon or an Axon 
authorized subcontractor may assist with obtaining the necessary local, state, or Federal approvals before 
installing Axon Outpost.
17. Installation. Customer will adhere to the installation requirements as agreed in the Outpost SOW. 
18. Vandalism or Motor Vehicle Accident Warranty. If Customer purchases the Vandalism and Accident 
warranty, Axon will provide up to two (2) replacements per warranty purchased if your Outpost is 
damaged due to vandalism or a motor vehicle accident.  Axon will make a commercially reasonable effort 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 88 ---
Master Services and Purchasing Agreement
Version: 25
Release Date:
 
Page 9 of 12
to provide new installation free of charge, but installation may require additional cost. Axon does not 
provide refunds or credits  if the warranty is not used during the Term of the Quote. 
19. Axon Lightpost Specific Terms.
3.5. Ubicquia. If Customer purchases Lightpost hardware and installation services, any warranties for the hardware 
are provided exclusively by the third-party manufacturer Ubicquia. All hardware-related support or warranty 
claims must be directed to the respective third-party provider. Axon is not responsible for servicing or replacing 
hardware. Axon will provide and support software components in accordance with the applicable Quote.
3.6. Installation. Installation of Axon Lightpost equipment will be performed by a third-party service provider 
authorized by Axon. Axon does not directly perform installation services.
3.7. Power. Customer agrees to supply a power source, in compliance with Lightpost requirements, at each site 
where a Lightpost device is installed. The power must be available on a 24-hour, 7 days per week (24/7) basis.
20. Wireless Offload Server
7.1 License Grant. Axon grants Customer a non-exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide, perpetual license to use 
Wireless Offload Server ("WOS"). "Use" means storing, loading, installing, or executing WOS solely for data 
communication with Axon Devices for the number of licenses purchased. The WOS term begins upon the start 
of the Axon Evidence Subscription.
7.2 Restrictions. Customer may not: (a) modify, alter, tamper with, repair, or create derivative works of WOS; (b) 
reverse engineer, disassemble, or decompile WOS, apply any process to derive the source code of WOS, or 
allow others to do so; (c) access or use WOS to avoid incurring fees or exceeding usage limits; (d) copy WOS 
in whole or part; (e) use trade secret information contained in WOS; (f) resell, rent, loan or sublicense WOS; 
(g) access WOS to build a competitive device or service or copy any features, functions or graphics of WOS; 
or (h) remove, alter or obscure any confidentiality or proprietary rights notices (including copyright and 
trademark notices) of Axon or Axon’s licensors on or within WOS. 
7.3 Updates. If Customer purchases WOS maintenance, Axon will make updates and error corrections to WOS 
("WOS Updates") available electronically via the Internet or media as determined by Axon. Customer is 
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate Internet access to receive WOS Updates and 
maintaining computer equipment necessary for use of WOS. The Quote will detail the maintenance term.
7.4 WOS Support. Upon request by Axon, Customer will provide Axon with access to Customer’s store and forward 
servers solely for troubleshooting and maintenance. 
21. Acceptance Checklist. If Axon provides Services to Customer pursuant to any statement of work in 
connection with Axon ALPR Products, within seven (7) days of the date on which Customer retrieves 
Customer's vehicle(s) from the Axon installer or Axon Outpost or Axon Lightpost installation is complete, 
said ALPR Products having been installed and configured with tested and fully and properly operational 
hardware and software identified above, Customer will receive a Professional Services Acceptance 
Checklist to submit to Axon indicating acceptance or denial of said deliverables. In the event Customer 
does not respond to the Professional Services Acceptance Checklist within seven (7) business days, the 
installation of the ALPR Products and services shall be deemed accepted.
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 89 ---
Master Services and Purchasing Agreement
Version: 25
Release Date:
 
Page 10 of 12
Axon Application Programming Interface Appendix
This Appendix applies if Axon’s API Services or a subscription to Axon Cloud Services are included on the Quote.
1.
Definitions. 
1.1.
"API Client" means the software that acts as the interface between Customer’s computer and the server, which 
is already developed or to be developed by Customer. 
1.2.
"API Interface" means software implemented by Customer to configure Customer’s independent API Client 
Software to operate in conjunction with the API Service for Customer’s authorized Use.
1.3.
"Axon Evidence Partner API, API or Axon API" (collectively "API Service") means Axon’s API which 
provides a programmatic means to access data in Customer’s Axon Evidence account or integrate Customer’s 
Axon Evidence account with other systems. 
1.4.
"Use" means any operation on Customer’s data enabled by the supported API functionality.
2.
Purpose and License.
2.1.
Customer may use API Service and data made available through API Service, in connection with an API Client 
developed by Customer. Axon may monitor Customer’s use of API Service to ensure quality, improve Axon 
devices and services, and verify compliance with this Agreement. Customer agrees to not interfere with such 
monitoring or obscure from Axon Customer’s use of API Service. Customer will not use API Service for 
commercial use. 
2.2.
Axon grants Customer a non-exclusive, non-transferable, non-sublicensable, worldwide, revocable right and 
license during the Term to use API Service, solely for Customer’s Use in connection with Customer’s API 
Client.
2.3.
Axon reserves the right to set limitations on Customer’s use of the API Service, such as a quota on operations, 
to ensure stability and availability of Axon’s API. Axon will use reasonable efforts to accommodate use beyond 
the designated limits. 
3.
Configuration. Customer will work independently to configure Customer’s API Client with API Service for Customer’s 
applicable Use. Customer will be required to provide certain information (such as identification or contact details) as 
part of the registration. Registration information provided to Axon must be accurate. Customer will inform Axon 
promptly of any updates. Upon Customer’s registration, Axon will provide documentation outlining API Service 
information. 
4.
Customer Responsibilities. When using API Service, Customer and its End Users shall not:
4.1.
use API Service in any way other than as expressly permitted under this Agreement; 
4.2.
use in any way that results in, or could result in, any security breach to Axon;
4.3.
perform an action with the intent of introducing any virus, worm, defect, Trojan horse, malware, or any item of 
a destructive nature to Axon Devices and Services; 
4.4.
interfere with, modify, disrupt or disable features or functionality of API Service or the servers or networks 
providing API Service;
4.5.
reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble, or translate or attempt to extract the source code from API Service 
or any related software; 
4.6.
create an API Interface that functions substantially the same as API Service and offer it for use by third parties;
4.7.
provide use of API Service on a service bureau, rental or managed services basis or permit other individuals 
or entities to create links to API Service;
4.8.
frame or mirror API Service on any other server, or wireless or Internet-based device;
4.9.
make available to a third-party, any token, key, password or other login credentials to API Service; 
4.10. take any action or inaction resulting in illegal, unauthorized or improper purposes; or
4.11. disclose Axon’s API manual.
5.
API Content. All content related to API Service, other than Customer Content or Customer’s API Client content, is 
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 90 ---
Master Services and Purchasing Agreement
Version: 25
Release Date:
 
Page 11 of 12
considered Axon’s API Content, including: 
5.1.
the design, structure and naming of API Service fields in all responses and requests; 
5.2.
the resources available within API Service for which Customer takes actions on, such as evidence, cases, 
users, or reports;
5.3.
the structure of and relationship of API Service resources; and 
5.4.
the design of API Service, in any part or as a whole. 
6.
Prohibitions on API Content. Neither Customer nor its End Users will use API content returned from the API 
Interface to:
6.1.
scrape, build databases, or otherwise create permanent copies of such content, or keep cached copies longer 
than permitted by the cache header;
6.2.
copy, translate, modify, create a derivative work of, sell, lease, lend, convey, distribute, publicly display, or 
sublicense to any third-party;
6.3.
misrepresent the source or ownership; or
6.4.
remove, alter, or obscure any confidentiality or proprietary rights notices (including copyright and trademark 
notices).
7.
API Updates. Axon may update or modify the API Service from time to time ("API Update"). Customer is required to 
implement and use the most current version of API Service and to make any applicable changes to Customer’s API 
Client required as a result of such API Update. API Updates may adversely affect how Customer’s API Client access 
or communicate with API Service or the API Interface. Each API Client must contain means for Customer to update 
API Client to the most current version of API Service. Axon will provide support for one (1) year following the release 
of an API Update for all depreciated API Service versions.
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536

--- page 91 ---
Master Services and Purchasing Agreement
Version: 25
Release Date:
 
Page 12 of 12
Axon Event Offer Appendix
If the Agreement includes the provision of, or Axon otherwise offers, ticket(s), travel and/or accommodation for select 
events hosted by Axon (“Axon Event”), the following shall apply:
1.
General. Subject to the terms and conditions specified below and those in the Agreement, Axon may provide 
Customer with one or more offers to fund Axon Event ticket(s), travel and/or accommodation for Customer-selected 
employee(s) to attend one or more Axon Events. By entering into the Agreement, Customer warrants that it is 
appropriate and permissible for Customer to receive the referenced Axon Event offer(s) based on Customer’s 
understanding of the terms and conditions outlined in this Axon Event Offer Appendix. 
2.
Attendee/Employee Selection. Customer shall have sole and absolute discretion to select the Customer 
employee(s) eligible to receive the ticket(s), travel and/or accommodation that is the subject of any Axon Event 
offer(s).
3.
Compliance. It is the intent of Axon that any and all Axon Event offers comply with all applicable laws, regulations 
and ethics rules regarding contributions, including gifts and donations. Axon’s provision of ticket(s), travel and/or 
accommodation for the applicable Axon Event to Customer is intended for the use and benefit of Customer in 
furtherance of its goals, and not the personal use or benefit of any official or employee of Customer. Axon makes this 
offer without seeking promises or favoritism for Axon in any bidding arrangements.  Further, no exclusivity will be 
expected by either party in consideration for the offer. Axon makes the offer with the understanding that it will not, as 
a result of such offer, be prohibited from any procurement opportunities or be subject to any reporting requirements. 
If Customer’s local jurisdiction requires Customer to report or disclose the fair market value of the benefits provided 
by Axon, Customer shall promptly contact Axon to obtain such information, and Axon shall provide the information 
necessary to facilitate Customer's compliance with such reporting requirements.
4.
Assignability. Customer may not sell, transfer, or assign Axon Event ticket(s), travel and/or accommodation provided 
under the Agreement.
5.
Availability. The provision of all offers of Axon Event ticket(s), travel and/or accommodation is subject to availability 
of funds and resources. Axon has no obligation to provide Axon Event ticket(s), travel and/or accommodation.
6.
Revocation of Offer. Axon reserves the right at any time to rescind the offer of Axon Event ticket(s), travel and/or 
accommodation to Customer if Customer or its selected employees fail to meet the prescribed conditions or if changes 
in circumstances render the provision of such benefits impractical, inadvisable, or in violation of any applicable laws, 
regulations, and ethics rules regarding contributions, including gifts and donations.
Docusign Envelope ID: E326A88E-E712-41F6-805A-6A4002CA3536