--- page 1 ---
NEWS
San Francisco Resident’s Surveillance ‘Walking Tour’ Maps Big Brother’s Expansion in the City
Independent writer Larry Kubin documented a fast-growing police network of license plate cameras and drones.
Jun 22, 2026
Updated 5:54 pm PT
By Samantha Kennedy
Live Radio
BBC World Service

--- page 2 ---
ps 8

~~



--- page 3 ---


--- page 4 ---
In an aerial view, an automated license plate reader is seen mounted on a pole on June 13, 2024, in San Francisco, California. Independent writer Larry Kubin of "The Fogline" toured the city to find a wide network of surveillance, including Flock Safety ca
San Francisco is a surveillance city — or at least, that’s how local writer Larry Kubin now sees it.
He even worries that it might soon look like something out of a sci-fi show. Humanoid robots and things like that.
Kubin toured the city in search of the same surveillance infrastructure technology that sparked a recent surge in criticism over privacy concerns. He discovered around 700 San Francisco Polic
Kubin has since published those findings in The Fogline, an independent site he runs with his wife.

--- page 5 ---
“It’s just where trends are heading, and thinking about where to draw the line on what makes people safe versus where it starts to get a little invasive,” Kubin said.
Kubin’s research included scrutiny of the around 400 Flock Safety automated license plate readers that SFPD uses. Police Chief Derrick Lew said last week that out-of-state and federal law enf
The incident prompted SFPD to stop sharing Flock data with NCRIC and another agency, the Western States Information Network.

--- page 6 ---
SL es a ap,
2 eS ce es a:
i ele ;
Se
— Sn go or



--- page 7 ---


--- page 8 ---
Flock Safety automated license plate readers in the St. Francis Wood neighborhood in San Francisco, California. (Courtesy of Larry Kubin)
It wasn’t the first of the city’s problems with Flock. In 2025, an investigation by The San Francisco Standard revealed that SFPD had allowed out-of-state agencies to search its system 1.6 mill
Bay Area cities Santa Cruz, Mountain View, El Cerrito and the town of Los Altos Hills have canceled Flock contracts over similar concerns surrounding improper data sharing, after each city d
Flock’s attention in the media, plus a 2019 look at Seattle’s surveillance infrastructure, was part of Kubin’s inspiration for the tour.
“I wanted to look more into that because my initial reaction was, like, ‘Oh, reading a license plate, that’s not so bad,’” Kubin said.
But then he started spotting cameras in “postcard views” of the city and places where people relax. He said it feels like a much different world than the one he grew up in.

--- page 9 ---
“We shouldn’t have to need this much technology,” Kubin said. “We shouldn’t need a police surveillance technology inventory that’s continuing to expand.”

--- page 10 ---


--- page 11 ---


--- page 12 ---
A public safety camera, at right, on the same street as the Painted Ladies in San Francisco, California. (Courtesy of Larry Kubin)
Kubin partly blamed the city’s voter-approved Proposition E. The 2024 ballot measure gave SFPD the green light to roll out new surveillance technology for a full year without an official policy
“I’m just picturing where we are now and whether it can become like a sci-fi TV show, right?” Kubin said. Kubin said that with the “new powers of things like Proposition E, the checks and bal
Proponents of the measure have defended it, with a former spokesperson for the Yes on E campaign saying officers are “highly trained and should be trusted to make smart decisions” regardin

--- page 13 ---
RELATED ARTICLE
SFPD’s surveillance network has increased in recent years, opening its fully operational Real Time Investigation Center at its headquarters last year. Mayor Daniel Lurie touted it as an import
The center houses a central hub that synthesizes real-time data from Flock cameras, drones and other public safety cameras. As of its reopening, the center helped make at least 800 arrests, ac
But the San Francisco-based Electronic Frontier Foundation is a critic of the center and its origin story.
EFF said that these centers, which other cities like San José also have, are “basically control rooms that pull together all feeds from a vast warrantless digital dragnet.”
SFPD’s center was funded partly through Proposition E, with later additional backing from crypto billionaire and Ripple CEO Chris Larsen. Larsen, through Ripple and his nonprofit San Fran
Larsen’s support was another source of inspiration for Kubin’s deep dive into surveillance. He said that, while Larsen’s “crypto billionaire” title was not enough to upset him, his name had com
Kubin said that the introduction of each surveillance tool in isolation — Flock automated license plate reader cameras, drones, ShotSpotter technology and so on — might’ve made sense at the
“The fact that all those different modalities are coming together into this Real-Time Investigation Center, the whole of that is now greater than the sum of its parts,” Kubin said.
Oakland Council Expands Flock License Plate Reader Netw

--- page 14 ---
TV
Radio
Podcasts
Events
Newsletters
For Educators
For TV/Film Producers
Footage Licensing
Corporate Sponsorship
Careers
News
Science
Arts & C
Technol
Labor
Crosswo
Download the KQED app:
Copyright © 2026 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy

--- page 15 ---
word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word
word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word
word word
mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1
mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1
mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1
mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1
mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1
mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1
mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1