San Francisco Keeps Its Flock Cameras, With New Restrictions | KQED Skip to Nav Skip to Main Skip to Footer Become a KQED Sponsor Sign In Saved Articles Account Newsletters Sign Out Donate Search News Politics Arts & Culture Science Food Education Housing Criminal Justice Immigration Bay Area Fall Guide Browse our guide on the best concerts, plays, galleries, and more to see this fall. News Politics Arts & Culture Science Food Education Housing Criminal Justice Immigration Podcasts & Radio KQED Podcasts & Shows Listen to Live Radio Radio Schedule KQED Forum Political Breakdown Bay Curious The Speaker The story of Nancy Pelosi’s rise in American politics. Podcasts & Radio KQED Podcasts & Shows Listen to Live Radio Radio Schedule KQED Forum Political Breakdown Bay Curious Video & TV Watch On Demand Livestream KQED 9 TV Schedule KQED Passport Check, Please! Bay Area Deep Look Emma’s Must-Sees See TV Programming Manager Emma Casley’s recommendations from this month’s KQED 9, PLUS and Passport schedules. Video & TV Watch On Demand Livestream KQED 9 TV Schedule KQED Passport Check, Please! Bay Area Deep Look Events KQED Live Events Events Around the Bay Area Member Benefits with KQED Live Videos from KQED Live Watch recordings of recent KQED Live events. Events KQED Live Events Events Around the Bay Area Member Benefits with KQED Live Support KQED Membership Sponsorship Donate A Vehicle Legacy Giving More Ways To Support Help Center Donor-Advised Funds Support KQED by using your donor-advised fund to make a charitable gift. Support KQED Membership Sponsorship Donate A Vehicle Legacy Giving More Ways To Support Help Center Featured Bay Area Fall Guide Browse our guide on the best concerts, plays, galleries, and more to see this fall. The Speaker The story of Nancy Pelosi’s rise in American politics. Emma’s Must-Sees See TV Programming Manager Emma Casley’s recommendations from this month’s KQED 9, PLUS and Passport schedules. Videos from KQED Live Watch recordings of recent KQED Live events. Donor-Advised Funds Support KQED by using your donor-advised fund to make a charitable gift. upper waypoint News Home / Technology San Francisco Keeps Its Flock Cameras, With New Restrictions The tighter rules are meant to strengthen privacy protections while doubling down on the controversial surveillance technology. Sep 30, 2026 Jose Velasquez San Francisco Mayor Daniel Lurie speaks to members of the press after unveiling the renamed federal building in honor of Senator Dianne Feinstein on June 29, 2026 in San Francisco, California. Mayor Lurie unveiled a new privacy policy for the city’s automated license plate reader system. (Heather Diehl/Getty Images) As public scrutiny over Flock Safety cameras mounts, San Francisco officials announced new restrictions and increased oversight on Tuesday for the city’s use of license plate readers. San Francisco Mayor Daniel Lurie joined District Attorney Brooke Jenkins, Police Chief Derrick Lew and Assemblymember Matt Haney to share a raft of new policies intended to strengthen privacy protections — while doubling down on the city’s Flock contract. “This technology keeps San Franciscans safe,” Lurie said, “and we will not go back to a time where people can break into cars, rob businesses or commit serious crime and expect to get away with it.” An automated license plate reader is seen mounted on a pole on June 13, 2024, in San Francisco. (Justin Sullivan/Getty Images) Standing underneath a Flock license plate reader on Mission Street, the mayor credited the cameras with reduced crime and improved public safety, while acknowledging residents “also have a right to expect strong protections about how information is accessed.” Under the new rules, San Francisco Police Department personnel will lose access to license plate data after 30 days, and officers’ use of the technology must be justified and reported. “Every active search will have to be connected to a specific incident number,” Lurie said. “The officer will have to state the reason for the search and the system will record who conducted it.” Used by thousands of law enforcement agencies throughout the country, the technology has raised alarms over the potential for misuse and unauthorized sharing of information. In June, the SFPD revealed that their Automated License Plate Reader, or ALPR, data had been improperly accessed hundreds of times by out-of-state and federal agencies. Lurie emphasized on Tuesday that the city doesn’t willingly share ALPR data with federal agencies. Related Article This SF Renter Is Trying to Beat the AI-Fueled Housing Boom With an Analog Approach Lurie and Haney said in the announcement that they would also work together to pursue state legislation strengthening penalties for police officers or any public safety personnel who misuse ALPR data or disclose it without authorization. That’s after a San José police officer was fired in April for using the technology to track a civilian who accused his family member of domestic violence. There’s currently no state law preventing officers from misusing or sharing ALPR data without authorization. Assemblymember Matt Haney said the system is broken and that the San José police officer should be criminally charged. “You don’t get to use that information to track someone for personal reasons, share it with a friend or family member,” Haney said. “Or use it for anything unrelated to your job. If you abuse that access, there should be criminal consequences — and you should be prosecuted.” Both Lurie and Jenkins said they’re not aware of any instances of police officers in San Francisco misusing Flock cameras. The district attorney called for the city to get ahead of any potential violation to maintain public trust. Become a KQED Sponsor “Our job isn’t to react after something bad happens,” Jenkins said. In a press release , the mayor said SFPD will conduct monthly reviews for potential violations. And the Department of Police Accountability will conduct regular independent audits of the department’s use of the technology. Training will be required for personnel with access to ALPR systems. Officers who violate the new policy face department discipline or termination, the release said. lower waypoint Stay in touch. Sign up for our daily newsletter. Subscribe to News Daily for essential Bay Area news stories, sent to your inbox every weekday. Email Address: Subscribe To learn more about how we use your information, please read our privacy policy . Successfully subscribed. Browse more newsletters next waypoint Download the KQED app: Copyright © 2026 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy TV Radio Podcasts Events Newsletters For Educators For TV/Film Producers Footage Licensing Corporate Sponsorship Careers News Science Arts & Culture Technology Labor Crossword About KQED Annual Report Strategic Plan Community Representation Statement Accessibility Financial and FCC Files Help Center Contact Us Download the KQED app: Copyright © 2026 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy Live Radio Morning Edition Player sponsored by word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1