Menlo Park Joins Growing List of Bay Area Cities Reining in Flock Cameras | KQED Skip to Nav Skip to Main Skip to Footer Become a KQED Sponsor Sign In Saved Articles Account Newsletters Sign Out Donate Search News Politics Arts & Culture Science Food Education Housing Criminal Justice Immigration Bay Area Fall Guide Browse our guide on the best concerts, plays, galleries, and more to see this fall. News Politics Arts & Culture Science Food Education Housing Criminal Justice Immigration Podcasts & Radio KQED Podcasts & Shows Listen to Live Radio Radio Schedule KQED Forum Political Breakdown Bay Curious Life, Automated Life, Automated explores how AI and automation are reshaping everyday life through conversations with researchers, practitioners, artists, and other unexpected experts. Podcasts & Radio KQED Podcasts & Shows Listen to Live Radio Radio Schedule KQED Forum Political Breakdown Bay Curious Video & TV Watch On Demand Livestream KQED 9 TV Schedule KQED Passport Check, Please! Bay Area Deep Look Emma’s Must-Sees See TV Programming Manager Emma Casley’s recommendations from this month’s KQED 9, PLUS and Passport schedules. Video & TV Watch On Demand Livestream KQED 9 TV Schedule KQED Passport Check, Please! Bay Area Deep Look Events KQED Live Events Events Around the Bay Area Member Benefits with KQED Live Videos from KQED Live Watch recordings of recent KQED Live events. Events KQED Live Events Events Around the Bay Area Member Benefits with KQED Live Support KQED Membership Sponsorship Donate A Vehicle Legacy Giving More Ways To Support Help Center Donor-Advised Funds Support KQED by using your donor-advised fund to make a charitable gift. Support KQED Membership Sponsorship Donate A Vehicle Legacy Giving More Ways To Support Help Center Featured Bay Area Fall Guide Browse our guide on the best concerts, plays, galleries, and more to see this fall. Life, Automated <em>Life, Automated</em> explores how AI and automation are reshaping everyday life through conversations with researchers, practitioners, artists, and other unexpected experts. Emma’s Must-Sees See TV Programming Manager Emma Casley’s recommendations from this month’s KQED 9, PLUS and Passport schedules. Videos from KQED Live Watch recordings of recent KQED Live events. Donor-Advised Funds Support KQED by using your donor-advised fund to make a charitable gift. upper waypoint News Home / Local Menlo Park Joins Growing List of Bay Area Cities Reining in Flock Cameras The department found that a third-party agency conducted around 700 searches deemed “out of compliance” with its data-sharing policies. Aug 28, 2026 Updated 1:54 pm PT Katie DeBenedetti A Flock camera monitors the intersection at McKee Road and North White Road in San José on Apr. 2, 2026. The Menlo Park Police Department’s decision to overhaul its data-sharing agreements comes after several other Bay Area law enforcement agencies terminated contracts with Flock Safety. (Martin do Nascimento/KQED) Menlo Park Police is tightening its license plate reader data-sharing policies after finding that an outside organization misused its data for the second time since 2025. The department announced that it would nullify all existing data-sharing agreements after a June audit — which found that a regional anti-crime organization coordinating between law enforcement agencies conducted hundreds of improper searches. Since 2024, Menlo Park Police has contracted with surveillance technology company Flock Safety to operate 35 of its Automatic License Plate Reader cameras, crediting the technology for helping identify missing people, stolen and wanted vehicles and gathering active warrant and investigation information. Flock’s technology has been widely integrated by law enforcement agencies across the country in recent years, credited with “revolutionizing” their methods for solving crimes, but several law enforcement agencies in the Bay Area and beyond have ended contracts with Flock Safety following repeated reports that out-of-state agencies have illegally accessed its customer agencies’ data. A protester holds a sign during a rally opposing Berkeley’s proposed contract expansion with surveillance company Flock Safety outside the Berkeley Unified School District boardroom in Berkeley on May 7, 2026. (Gustavo Hernandez/KQED) Flock advertises that its data-sharing offerings allow customers to share camera data with other contracted agencies on either a national, state or one-to-one sharing level. In part, the tool is intended to increase coordination between neighboring departments, such as being able to track a suspect vehicle that travels from one jurisdiction to another. But its data-sharing practices have come under scrutiny after several data-sharing scandals, with clients accusing Flock of altering their data-sharing settings without permission and allowing out-of-state agencies, including U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, to access their cameras’ information. Many Bay Area agencies say they do not participate in the “National Lookup,” in line with California state law, which prohibits agencies from sharing license plate reader data with federal and out-of-state agencies. Related Article Menlo Park Police said it shares data with other agencies on a one-to-one basis. Since the June audit, it said it would nullify existing sharing agreements and require partner agencies to execute updated ones. Menlo Park Police has also instituted regular internal and external audits of its Flock system, following an investigation by The Almanac in 2025 that found its camera data was shared with police departments in Houston and Sauk Village in Illinois. According to Menlo Park Police’s most recent quarterly update, recent routine audits found no instances of noncompliance with its data-sharing permissions. But after the San Francisco Police Department found in June that a regional anti-crime organization had improperly accessed its cameras hundreds of times , Menlo Park Police conducted a separate investigation. Both San Francisco and Menlo Park police departments authorized the Northern California Regional Intelligence Center, also known as NCRIC, to access their data at the time of the searches, but SFPD’s audit found that the organization gave access to analysts from a third-party group, the West States Information Network, “during night hours.” “Although Menlo Park’s data-sharing relationship with NCRIC was authorized and consistent with Department policy and applicable law when established, the Department immediately revoked NCRIC’s access and conducted its own audit,” the quarterly report said. In an aerial view, an automated license plate reader is seen mounted on a pole on June 13, 2024, in San Francisco, California. The city of San Francisco has installed 100 automated license plate readers across the city and plans to install 300 more in the coming weeks as officials look to technology to help combat crime in the city. (Justin Sullivan/Getty Images) Menlo Park Police found that the agency conducted about 700 searches deemed “out of compliance” with its policy between February 2025 and June 2026. None of the searches referenced Immigration and Customs Enforcement or immigration enforcement in their search justifications, the department said. According to its transparency portal , Menlo Park Police currently shares ALPR data with the East Palo Alto and South San Francisco police departments, the San Diego County District Attorney’s Office and San Mateo’s Police and County Sheriff’s Office. Related Article Earlier this month at a Police Advisory Committee meeting, the Redwood City Police Department revealed that its Flock cameras have also been improperly accessed multiple times since 2023, even before the department had signed a contract with the company. The department said the improper searches were “all errors and inconsistencies [that] resulted from Flock Safety’s mismanagement.” According to the committee report, Flock had enabled its “National Lookup” feature without permission, allowing outside agencies, including the FBI, to conduct dozens of searches in 2023. According to Redwood City Police Chief Kristina Bell, those searches didn’t yield any results, since they occurred before the city’s cameras were installed. In 2024 and 2025, Redwood City Police identified additional improper searches by Flock clients who were miscategorized by the company as California law enforcement agencies. Flock also conducted its own searches of Redwood City’s data without permission, Bell told the Police Advisory Committee. Stanford University also quietly terminated its contract with Flock Safety and will replace its ALPR cameras with ones operated by a different company. In January, Santa Cruz became the first city in California to cancel its contract with Flock. Other jurisdictions, including Mountain View and Santa Clara County , have also distanced themselves from Flock in recent months. Become a KQED Sponsor lower waypoint Stay in touch. Sign up for our daily newsletter. Subscribe to News Daily for essential Bay Area news stories, sent to your inbox every weekday. Email Address: Subscribe To learn more about how we use your information, please read our privacy policy . Successfully subscribed. Browse more newsletters next waypoint Download the KQED app: Copyright © 2026 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy TV Radio Podcasts Events Newsletters For Educators For TV/Film Producers Footage Licensing Corporate Sponsorship Careers News Science Arts & Culture Technology Labor Crossword About KQED Annual Report Strategic Plan Community Representation Statement Accessibility Financial and FCC Files Help Center Contact Us Download the KQED app: Copyright © 2026 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy Live Radio KQED News Player sponsored by word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1