--- page 1 ---
NEWS
San José Residents Sue City, Saying Flock Safety Cameras Allow ‘Mass Surveillance’
The lawsuit alleges that the use of the automated license plate reader technology is unconstitutional and seeks class-action status on behalf of all residents.
Apr 16, 2026
Updated 4:05 pm PT
By Katie DeBenedetti
Live Radio
BBC World Service

--- page 2 ---


--- page 3 ---


--- page 4 ---
Flock cameras monitor the intersection at McKee Road and North White Road in San José on April 2, 2026. The lawsuit alleges the use of the automated license plate reader technology is unconstitutional, and seeks class-action status on behalf of all res
Residents are suing San José over its Flock Safety cameras, alleging that the city’s use of the license-plate reading technology creates an unconstitutional “mass surveillance system.”
The civil rights suit, filed in federal court on Wednesday, said the cameras allow the San José Police Department to monitor residents’ movements in violation of the Fourth Amendment, whic
“San José is operating nearly 500 license plate reader cameras connected with AI technology around the city to essentially spy on everyday people going about their business,” said Daniel Woi
The three San José residents bringing the suit have alleged that the city’s system of readers conducts constant monitoring, allowing the SJPD and other agencies to track residents’ whereabout
They’re seeking a class-action status on behalf of all city dwellers who have or will have their license plate data recorded.
“No officer ever has to establish probable cause, swear to the facts in a warrant application, or await the approval of a judge,” the suit said. “Officers can run searches based on a hunch, idle cu

--- page 5 ---


--- page 6 ---


--- page 7 ---
A Flock Safety license plate recognition camera is seen near the intersection of Marine Street and Arapahoe Avenue in Boulder on March 5, 2026. (Matthew Jonas/MediaNews Group/Boulder Daily Camera via Getty Images)
Wednesday’s legal challenge follows a similar state-level suit brought against San José by civil liberties groups in the fall, alleging their use of Flock Safety cameras violates the California const
It comes as dozens of municipalities across the U.S. terminate or rethink contracts with Flock, a leading company selling the technology, over growing privacy and legal concerns stemming fro
Data sharing is an advertised part of Flock’s offerings — the company offers contracted agencies multiple options to share data with other customers, including “National” and “State” lookups,
RELATED ARTICLE
City officials have said this can be helpful to follow a suspect’s vehicle movements between nearby jurisdictions. In recent months, though, some Bay Area cities have amended their controls a
More than two dozen municipalities across the U.S. — including Santa Cruz and Los Altos Hills — have terminated contracts with Flock altogether. Others, like Oakland and San Francisco, ha
But the San José residents represented in the suit say that the city’s more than 470 cameras have created a system of “mass surveillance.” Plaintiff Zhaocheng Anthony said in court documents
“Pervasively tracking a person’s movements and then storing them in a government database … creates precisely the type of suffocating atmosphere of surveillance the Framers adopted the Fo
The residents say that Flock can create “vehicle journey maps” that can be traced to a driver, allowing the city to track residents’ routines, habits and outings, especially to sensitive locations li
What Is the Point of California’s Privacy Laws if Big Tech I

--- page 8 ---


--- page 9 ---


--- page 10 ---
San José Mayor Matt Mahan helps to install a Flock Safety brand automated license plate reader on April 23, 2024. Civil liberties groups are now suing the city and Mahan over the technology’s uses. (Joseph Geha/KQED)
In March, San José’s city council put restrictions on where the city can position cameras, including near reproductive health care facilities and places of worship; reduced the default data reten
“The San Jose Police Department has robust, transparent policies in place to ensure that the information is not misused in any way, including policies that prohibit direct access to the data to 
SJPD said it conducted a review of internal and external searches in 2025, and found that “all searches were in compliance with department policy and California law.”
CAL
Peer
Regu

--- page 11 ---
TV
Radio
Podcasts
Events
Newsletters
News
Science
Arts & C
Technol
Labor

--- page 12 ---
word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word
word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word
word word
mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1
mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1
mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1
mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1
mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1
mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1
mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1
For Educators
For TV/Film Producers
Footage Licensing
Corporate Sponsorship
Careers
Crosswo
Download the KQED app:
Copyright © 2026 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy