Richmond Could Be the Latest Bay Area City to Leave Flock Safety | KQED Skip to Nav Skip to Main Skip to Footer Become a KQED Sponsor Sign In Saved Articles Account Newsletters Sign Out Donate Search News Politics Arts & Culture Science Food Education Housing Criminal Justice Immigration Bay Area Fall Guide Browse our guide on the best concerts, plays, galleries, and more to see this fall. News Politics Arts & Culture Science Food Education Housing Criminal Justice Immigration Podcasts & Radio KQED Podcasts & Shows Listen to Live Radio Radio Schedule KQED Forum Political Breakdown Bay Curious The Speaker The story of Nancy Pelosi’s rise in American politics. Podcasts & Radio KQED Podcasts & Shows Listen to Live Radio Radio Schedule KQED Forum Political Breakdown Bay Curious Video & TV Watch On Demand Livestream KQED 9 TV Schedule KQED Passport Check, Please! Bay Area Deep Look Emma’s Must-Sees See TV Programming Manager Emma Casley’s recommendations from this month’s KQED 9, PLUS and Passport schedules. Video & TV Watch On Demand Livestream KQED 9 TV Schedule KQED Passport Check, Please! Bay Area Deep Look Events KQED Live Events Events Around the Bay Area Member Benefits with KQED Live Videos from KQED Live Watch recordings of recent KQED Live events. Events KQED Live Events Events Around the Bay Area Member Benefits with KQED Live Support KQED Membership Sponsorship Donate A Vehicle Legacy Giving More Ways To Support Help Center Donor-Advised Funds Support KQED by using your donor-advised fund to make a charitable gift. Support KQED Membership Sponsorship Donate A Vehicle Legacy Giving More Ways To Support Help Center Featured Bay Area Fall Guide Browse our guide on the best concerts, plays, galleries, and more to see this fall. The Speaker The story of Nancy Pelosi’s rise in American politics. Emma’s Must-Sees See TV Programming Manager Emma Casley’s recommendations from this month’s KQED 9, PLUS and Passport schedules. Videos from KQED Live Watch recordings of recent KQED Live events. Donor-Advised Funds Support KQED by using your donor-advised fund to make a charitable gift. upper waypoint News Home / Local Richmond Could Be the Latest Bay Area City to Leave Flock Safety The Richmond City Council is set to vote Tuesday on a $12 million contract with a new license plate reader company. Sep 22, 2026 Updated 10:46 am PT Emily Tenorio-Molina A Flock camera monitors the intersection at McKee Road and North White Road in San José on Apr. 2, 2026. Flock’s automated license plate-readers have drawn criticism across California. (Martin do Nascimento/KQED) In response to backlash over data-sharing practices and privacy concerns, Richmond may join a growing list of Bay Area cities saying goodbye to Flock Safety — and replacing the technology with other vendors. Richmond City Council is set to vote Tuesday on a $12 million contract with Axon Enterprise, a competing surveillance company. The city council will also hear a presentation from the digital rights group Electronic Frontier Foundation about whether license plate-reading technology has reduced crime in the city, according to the meeting agenda. A protester holds a sign during a rally opposing Berkeley’s proposed contract expansion with surveillance company Flock Safety outside the Berkeley Unified School District boardroom in Berkeley on May 7, 2026. (Gustavo Hernandez/KQED) “As the City considers the continued use, expansion, or oversight of this technology, it is important that the City Council have objective information about whether LPRs are achieving their intended public safety outcomes and whether any benefits outweigh the risk of misuse of these technologies now or in the future,” a Sept. 22 agenda report states. The city’s police chief, Timothy Simmons, wants the city to expand its relationship with Axon, which it already uses for its body-worn cameras, taser devices, interview room equipment and virtual reality training equipment. “Axon Enterprise was shortlisted because it proposed a comprehensive, turnkey law enforcement solution that would integrate with technology already utilized by the Richmond Police Department,” Simmons wrote in a Sept. 15 agenda report. Related Article Axon will provide 110 solar-powered cameras, 60 CCTV cameras and drones for the Richmond Police Department to use starting next month. The switch from Flock to Axon will reduce annual costs by about $200,000, according to the report. Some community members, however, questioned the difference between the camera vendors and said they’d rather see the money spent on things like road safety and parks. Carlos Juarez, a member of community safety advocacy group Reimagine Richmond, called Axon a “sub” for Flock, and said the city has more important issues related to road safety. “It doesn’t necessarily make sense,” Juarez told KQED. “They’re always telling the community of Richmond that they don’t have money for the Richmond infrastructure.” Become a KQED Sponsor Flock’s technology is used by thousands of law enforcement agencies in the U.S. But cities throughout California have ended contracts with Flock Safety following public concerns around surveillance and repeated reports that out-of-state agencies have illegally accessed its customer agencies’ data. Richmond city staff “determined that concerns about reliability, transparency, system performance and public confidence warranted consideration in the City’s overall evaluation,” according to the agenda report from Simmons. The Richmond Police Department in Richmond on Aug. 6, 2025. (Martin do Nascimento/KQED) In August, Antioch approved a $661,687 contract with Axon to start using their cameras, starting next month through November 2030. Stanford University also cut ties with Flock that same month and opted for Genetec Cloudrunner, which will be used for internal data sharing. Become a KQED Sponsor Flock CEO Garrett Langley told NPR in August that he’s not worried about losing customers to competitors, like Axon. He said that similar competitors lack Flock’s “guardrails” that provide transparency and accountability to providers. The Richmond Police Department said it will hold data from the cameras for up to 30 days and won’t share it without authorization. Yet, Juarez said that the adoption of another surveillance tool doesn’t relieve concerns around civil liberties from residents. Become a KQED Sponsor “They do the same thing at the end of the day. They’re tracking us without our consent.” lower waypoint Stay in touch. Sign up for our daily newsletter. Subscribe to News Daily for essential Bay Area news stories, sent to your inbox every weekday. Email Address: Subscribe To learn more about how we use your information, please read our privacy policy . Successfully subscribed. Browse more newsletters next waypoint Download the KQED app: Copyright © 2026 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy TV Radio Podcasts Events Newsletters For Educators For TV/Film Producers Footage Licensing Corporate Sponsorship Careers News Science Arts & Culture Technology Labor Crossword About KQED Annual Report Strategic Plan Community Representation Statement Accessibility Financial and FCC Files Help Center Contact Us Download the KQED app: Copyright © 2026 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. Terms of Service Privacy Policy Live Radio Morning Edition Player sponsored by word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1