Transparency Portal
Visit Flock
Alameda CA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Sat Jun 13 2026

OVERVIEW

The Alameda California Police Department uses Flock Safety technology and AXON mobile ALPR technology to capture objective evidence without compromising individual privacy. The Alameda California Police Department utilizes retroactive searches to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, the Alameda CA PD utilizes real-time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

POLICIES

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Alameda California Police Department and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harrassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
USAGE

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

36

None: Alameda does not share with outside agencies

Organizations granted access to Alameda CA PD data.

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

California SVS, NCMEC Amber Alert

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

514,106

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

4,830

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

270

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV
ADDITIONAL INFO

ALPR Policy Link

https://www.alamedaca.gov/files/assets/public/departments/alameda/police/fixed-alpr-policy.pdf

Provided by Flock Safety