source: packet.pdf
sha256: 5c128b58433d82eb89c1b8eec3b0a37f24f89b7782b55d5fd3e0e942715c3213
pages: 302
ocr_pages: 27
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
April 15, 2024
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Lisa Diaz Nash, Mayor
Rob Newsom Jr., Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Amourence Lee
Adam Loraine
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: April 15, 2024
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 850 2950 7140      Passcode: 053043
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting. 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CEREMONIAL
1.
City Clerk Patrice M. Olds – Commendatory Retirement Resolution
2.
Dispatcher Appreciation Week – Proclamation
3.
Volunteer Appreciation Week - Recognition
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
4.
Citywide Small Trash Capture Project – Agreement
Approve an agreement with United Storm Water, Inc. for the Citywide Small Trash Capture Project in the amount
of $697,277; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $105,000; and authorize the Public Works Director
to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders as allowed by the contract
documents and within the contingency amount.
CEQA: This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation,
repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures,
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or
former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
1 of 302

--- page 2 ---
5.
Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel – Construction Contract
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure to award a construction contract to Angeles
Contractor, Inc. in the amount of $379,386.64; approve the construction contract and establish a contingency
reserve in the amount of $57,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in
substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
CEQA: This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation,
repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures,
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or
former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
6.
Temporary Standby Generator for Dale Avenue Pump Station Upgrade – Change Order
Approve Contract Change Order No. 4 to the Agreement with Herc Rentals, Inc. for a temporary emergency
standby generator to support the Dale Ave Pump Station Upgrade project in an amount not to exceed
$66,565.48, increasing the total agreement amount to $569,608.17; add $45,000 to the contingency reserve;
extend the Agreement term to July 31, 2024; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the change
order in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
CEQA: The work addressed by this administrative report is being undertaken to support the Clean Water Program.
This project is subject to the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the general
components of which are included as part of the Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR)
(SCH No. 201532006) that was prepared for the Clean Water Program. The Final PEIR was certified by City Council
on June 6, 2016.
7.
2024 Annual Investment Policy – Approval
Adopt a Resolution to approve the City of San Mateo 2024 Investment Policy
CEQA: This 2024 Investment Policy is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
8.
Enterprise Resource Planning Software Project - Supplemental Budget Appropriation and Change Orders
Adopt a Resolution to approve a supplemental budget appropriation of $211,305 of unassigned fund balance
from the Equipment Replacement Fund to increase the budget for the Enterprise Resource Planning Software
Project; approve Change Order No. 7 to the master services agreement with Collaborative Solutions, LLC for ERP
implementation services in the amount of $396,705, for a new agreement total of $4,539,370; approve Change
Order No. 443997 to the master subscription agreement with Workday, Inc. for delivery assurance services in the
amount of $24,600, for a new agreement total of $177,355; and authorize the City Manager to execute the
Change Orders in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: Approval of the change orders for ERP implementation support is not subject to CEQA review under the
common sense exemption in it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the activity in question
may have a significant effect on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061.) In addition, approval of a
supplemental budget appropriation for the Project is not subject to CEQA review in that it consists of a
governmental fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a
potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).
9.
City Council Priority List – Adoption
Adopt the City Council Priority List for fiscal year 2024-25.
2 of 302

--- page 3 ---
CEQA: This City Council Priority List is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
10.
B Street Pedestrian Mall Improvements Project – Bid Rejection
Adopt a Resolution to reject all bids received for the B Street Pedestrian Mall Improvements Project; and
authorize the Public Works Department to initiate a second Notice Inviting Bids.
CEQA: This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as a project that has been disapproved. (CEQA Guidelines
Section 15270.)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
 
PUBLIC HEARING
City Council action on the following public hearing(s) represents a final decision concluding all administrative proceedings. Judicial
review may be had only if a petition is filed with the Court not later than the 90th day following the date the decision is made.
Judicial review of environmental determinations may be subject to a time period for litigation as short as 30 days following the date
the decision is made.
 
11.
Fiscal Year 2024-25 Comprehensive Fee Schedule – Approval
Adopt a Resolution to approve the revisions to the proposed fiscal year 2024-25 Comprehensive Fee Schedule.
CEQA: This Comprehensive Fee Schedule update for fiscal year 2024-25 is not a project subject to CEQA, because it
is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in
a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NEW BUSINESS
12.
2024-29 Capital Improvement Plan Preview
Receive a preview and provide feedback on the 2024-29 Capital Improvement Plan.
CEQA: This budget preview is not a project subject CEQA because it is a government fiscal activity, which does not
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
13.
General Fund 2024-25 Operating Budget – Preview and General Fund Ten-Year Forecast
Receive the General Fund 2024-25 operating budget preview and General Fund ten-year forecast
CEQA: This report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
14.
City Manager, City Attorney, Department Head and Deputy Director Compensation Plan – Amendment
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Compensation Plan to: 1) add Juneteenth, June 19th as an annual holiday; 2)
increase the salary range for the Police Chief classification; and 3) increase the salary range for the Human
3 of 302

--- page 4 ---
Resources Director classification.
CEQA: This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
4 of 302

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 21-4678
File ID: 24-8556
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
April 15, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Citywide Small Trash Capture Project – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with United Storm Water, Inc. for the Citywide Small Trash Capture Project in the amount of 
$697,277; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $105,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute 
the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders as allowed by the contract documents and 
within the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board (Regional Board) has mandated the City of San Mateo (City) to 
reduce trash discharged to the San Francisco Bay through the City’s storm drain system based on a 2009 baseline trash 
generation rate. The permit requires a 100% reduction rate, relative to the 2009 baseline values, by June 30, 2025. 
To date, the City has achieved approximately 87% reduction through the following methods: existing trash capture 
devices, source control measures, creek and shoreline cleanups, street sweeping, and other control mechanisms. The 
credits for jurisdiction-wide source control efforts and creek and shoreline cleanups will no longer count toward 
compliance after June 30, 2025. In order to ensure the City achieves the 100% trash reduction mandate by June 30, 2025, 
the City must install additional trash capture devices in strategic trash generation areas throughout the City. Non-
compliance with trash reduction targets can result in enforcement actions or fines from the Regional Board, or other 
exposures.
The Citywide Small Trash Capture Project (Project) is designed to satisfy Regional Board requirements, bringing the City 
closer to the required 100% reduction by installing approximately 450 small trash capture inlet devices at strategic trash 
generation areas throughout San Mateo. 
The Project was advertised on February 8, 2024, and a total of six (6) bids were received and opened on March 7, 2024. 
The bids received are listed below in order of increasing bid amount. 
Company Name
Total Bid Amount
United Storm Water Inc.
$697,277.00
GSW Construction
$830,020.00
ETIC
$987,449.38
Cazadoro Construction
$1,206,600.00
Golden Bay Construction
$1,283,426.00
Ghilotti Bros
$1,329,000.00
5 of 302

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The engineer’s estimate is $1,470,000. Staff reviewed the bids and determined that United Storm Water Inc. is the lowest 
responsive, responsible bidder and recommends for it be awarded the construction contract.  Staff is requesting a larger 
contingency amount of 15% to cover potential unexpected storm drainage system site conditions given the volume of 
devices to be installed Citywide. In addition, staff may need to make minor modifications or replace existing storm drain 
inlets at some locations to allow installation of the small trash capture devices.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds in Project #46C001 to fund this work in the amount of $697,277.00 and the contingency reserve 
of $105,000.00 for a total of $802,277.00.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Jimmy Vo, Senior Engineer
jvo@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7319
6 of 302

--- page 7 ---
AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT WITH UNITED STORM WATER, INC. 
FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT 
FOR 
CITYWIDE SMALL TRASH CAPTURE PROJECT 
CITY PROJECT NO. 46C001-46000-0005-46350 
 
THIS AGREEMENT FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS (“Agreement”), made and entered into in the 
City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, by and between the CITY OF SAN 
MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, (hereinafter called 
"City") and UNITED STORM WATER, a corporation, with offices at 14000 E. Valley Blvd., City of 
Industry, CA 91746 (hereinafter called "Contractor"), entered into this day of ___________________.   
 
RECITALS: 
 
(a) City has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize construction of the public work and 
improvements or other matters herein provided, and execution of this Agreement. 
 
(b) A notice was duly published for bids for the contract for the improvement hereinafter 
described. 
 
(c) After notice duly given, on the date hereof, the City awarded the contract for the construction 
of the improvements hereinafter described to Contractor. 
 
IT IS AGREED, as follows: 
 
1. 
Scope of Work. Contractor shall perform the work according to the Contract Book entitled: 
 
CITYWIDE SMALL TRASH CAPTURE PROJECT 
 
CITY PROJECT NO. 46C001-46000-0005-46350 
 
7 of 302

--- page 8 ---
2. 
Contract Price. City shall pay, and the Contractor shall accept, the sum of SIX-HUNDRED NINETY-
SEVEN THOUSAND TWO-HUNDRED AND SEVENTY-SEVEN ($697,277.00) in full payment for the 
work set forth above. 
 
Said price is determined by the prices contained in Contractor's bid, and shall be paid as described 
in the Contract Book. In the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a 
reduction of those set forth in Contractor's bid and the specifications herein, such work and 
materials will be paid for as described in the Contract Book. 
 
3. 
The Contract Documents. The complete contract consists of the following documents: this 
Agreement; the Notice Inviting Sealed Proposals; the Accepted Proposal; the Contract Book which 
includes the Special Provisions and Contract Drawings, Addendum Number 1 issued to the 
Contract Book, the APWA-AGC Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction, 2015 
Edition, the Faithful Performance Bond, and the Labor and Material Bond (hereinafter referred to 
as the “contract documents”). 
 
All rights and obligations of City and Contractor are fully set forth and described in the contract 
documents.  The contract documents constitute the entire contract between the parties hereto 
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, fully supersede any and all prior understandings, 
representations, warranties and agreements between the parties hereto, or any of them, 
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and may be modified only by written agreement signed 
by all of the parties hereto. 
 
All of the above-named documents are complementary and are intended to operate in harmony, so 
that any work called for in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the 
same as if mentioned in all said documents. In the event of any variation or discrepancy between any 
portion of this Agreement and any portion of the contract documents, this Agreement shall prevail. 
The precedence of the remaining contract documents will be as specified in the Contract Book. 
 
4. 
Schedule. All work shall be performed in accordance with the schedule provided pursuant to the 
Contract Book. 
 
5. 
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, City shall 
immediately give written notice thereof to Contractor and Contractor's sureties, and the sureties 
shall have the right to take over and perform the Agreement, provided, however, that if the sureties, 
within 5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give City written notice of their 
intention to take over the performance thereof within 5 days after notice to City of such election, City 
may take over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it 
may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of Contractor, and the sureties shall be 
liable to City for any excess cost or damages occasioned City thereby; and, in such event, City may, 
without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing the work, such materials, 
appliances, plant and other property belonging to Contractor as may be on the site of the work and 
necessary therefor. 
 
8 of 302

--- page 9 ---
6. 
Legal Work Day - Penalties for Violation. Eight hours of labor shall constitute a legal day's work. 
Contractor shall not require more than 8 hours labor in a day and 40 hours in a calendar week 
from any person employed by Contractor in the performance of such work unless such excess 
work is compensated for at not less than 1-1/2 times the basic rate of pay. Contractor shall forfeit 
as a penalty to City the sum of $25.00 for each laborer, workman or mechanic employed in the 
execution of this contract by Contractor, or by any subcontractor for each calendar day during 
which such laborer, workman or mechanic is required or permitted to labor more than 8 hours in 
any calendar day and 40 hours in any one calendar week in violation of the provisions of Sections 
1810 and 1816, inclusive, of the Labor Code of the State of California. 
 
7. 
Prevailing Wage Scale. The prevailing wage scale as determined by the Director of Industrial Relations 
of the State of California, in force on the day the bid was announced, will be the minimum paid to all 
craftsmen and laborers working on this project. Contractor shall also require any subcontractors who 
work or provide any services related to the project to pay all persons performing labor or rendering 
service under said subcontract or other arrangement at least the general prevailing rate of wages, 
determined as set forth herein for the respective crafts and employments, including such wages for 
holiday and overtime work. A copy of the correct determination will be posted at the job site. It is 
understood that it is the responsibility of Contractor to determine the correct scale. Copies of the 
prevailing wage rates are on file at the City Clerk's office, however, errors or defects in the materials 
in the City Clerk's office will not excuse a bidder's failure to comply with the actual scale then in force. 
Contractor must submit certified payrolls to the Department of Industrial Relations in accordance 
with Labor Code Section 1776. 
 
Contractor agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal 
Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price 
Index escalator. 
 
8. 
Senate Bill 854 Compliance Required.  In accordance with Labor Code Sections 1725.5 and 1771.1, 
all contractors and subcontractors must be registered with the Department of Industrial Relations. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1771.4 the contractor must post job site notices as 
required by regulation and this project will be subject to compliance monitoring and enforcement 
by the Department of Industrial Relations. 
 
9. 
Insurance. The Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and five years 
thereafter the insurance as specified in Exhibit A of this agreement. 
 
10. Indemnity. Contractor agrees to hold harmless and indemnify City, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense 
arising out of Contractor’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of 
City’s active negligence, sole negligence or willful misconduct.  Contractor agrees to defend City, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The Contractor’s duty 
to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement. 
 
9 of 302

--- page 10 ---
11. Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by 
the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of 
this Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial 
court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or 
actions.  It is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than 
$5000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement. 
 
12. Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The 
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties 
shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, 
the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The 
mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
13. Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition to and not 
in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to City. 
 
14. Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified mail, 
postage prepaid.  
 
a. 
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed as follows: 
 
Director of Public Works 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Notices required to be given to Contractor shall be addressed as appears in the signature 
block as shown on the Bidder's Statement. 
 
15. Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes the 
plural and vice versa. 
 
16. Governing Law and Venue. This Agreement, the contract documents, and the performance hereon 
shall be governed, interpreted, construed, and regulated by the laws of the State of California. The 
10 of 302

--- page 11 ---
parties agree that any action related to this Agreement or the contract documents will be venued 
in the County of San Mateo. 
 
17. Headings. The title and headings of the various sections of this Agreement and the contract 
documents are intended solely for convenience of reference and are not intended to explain, 
modify, or place any construction on any provisions. 
 
18. No Partnership or Agency. Nothing in this Agreement nor the contract documents shall be deemed 
to constitute a partnership in law between City and Contractor, or any sub-contractor, to 
constitute either party as an agent of the other for any purpose; or to entitle either party to 
commit or bind the other in any manner unless expressly agreed upon in the contract documents. 
 
19. Severability. If any part or provision of the contract documents is determined by any court to be 
illegal, invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the contract documents shall continue to be 
valid as to its other provisions and the remainder of the affected provision, unless it can be 
concluded from the circumstances that, in the absence of the provisions found to be null and void, 
the parties would not have entered into the contract documents. The parties shall use all 
reasonable efforts to replace any and all provisions or parts found to be null and void with 
provisions that are valid under the applicable law and come closest to their original intention. 
 
20. Waiver. None of the following shall operate as a waiver of any provision of the contract documents, 
or of any power herein reserved by the City, or any right to damages herein provided: 1) inspection 
by the City or its authorized agents or representatives; 2) any order or certificate for payment, or any 
payment for, or acceptance of the whole or any part of the work by the City; 3) an extension of time; 
or 4) any position taken by the City or its authorized agents or representatives. 
 
21. Warranty. Contractor warrants and guarantees that the materials and equipment provided shall be 
at least of the quality specified and new unless otherwise required or permitted by the contract 
documents, and, if no quality is specified, then the materials and equipment shall be of commercial 
grade, suitable for heavy public use in facilities of similar size and complexity, that the work 
performed hereunder will be free from defects, and that the work will conform to the requirements 
of the contract documents. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
 
11 of 302

--- page 12 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement between the CITY OF SAN MATEO and UNITED STORM 
WATER, INC. has been duly executed by the parties hereinabove named, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
 
Matt Fabry 
Public Works Director 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
<Insert Name>  
Its Authorized Agent 
<Insert Title> 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus an 
additional 
corporate 
officer 
(i.e., 
Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below. 
 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
<Insert Name>  
<Insert Title> 
 
Date 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
 
12 of 302

--- page 13 ---
Exhibit A  
Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts 
 
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract, and for x years thereafter, 
insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise from or in 
connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the Contractor, his agents, 
representatives, employees, or subcontractors.  
 
MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE  
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:  
 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 covering CGL 
on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property damage, bodily 
injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $5,000,000 per occurrence. If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this 
project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required 
occurrence limit.   
2. Automobile Liability:  Insurance Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), with 
limits no less than $5,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.  
3. Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, 
and Employers’ Liability insurance with a limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.  
4. Surety Bonds as described below. 
5. Contractors’ Pollution Legal Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and Omissions 
(if project involves environmental hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or 
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate. 
 
If the contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above, 
the Entity requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or higher limits maintained by 
the contractor. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance 
and coverage shall be available to the Entity. 
Self-Insured Retentions  
Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the Entity. At the option of the Entity, 
either: the contractor shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions 
as respects the Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; or the Contractor shall provide 
a financial guarantee satisfactory to the Entity guaranteeing payment of losses and related 
investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. The policy language shall provide, or be 
endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be satisfied by either the named insured or 
Entity. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions  
13 of 302

--- page 14 ---
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
1. The Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional 
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed 
by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection 
with such work or operations and automobiles owned, leased, hired, or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to 
the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10, 
CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
2. For any claims related to this project, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the Entity, its officers, 
officials, employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the Entity, 
its officers, officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance and 
shall not contribute with it.  
3. Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, 
except with notice to the Entity. 
 
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) Insurance  
Contractor may submit evidence of Builder’s Risk insurance in the form of Course of Construction 
coverage. Such coverage shall name the Entity as a loss payee as their interest may appear. 
If the project does not involve new or major reconstruction, at the option of the Entity, an Installation 
Floater may be acceptable. For such projects, a Property Installation Floater shall be obtained that 
provides for the improvement, remodel, modification, alteration, conversion or adjustment to existing 
buildings, structures, processes, machinery and equipment.  The Property Installation Floater shall 
provide property damage coverage for any building, structure, machinery or equipment damaged, 
impaired, broken, or destroyed during the performance of the Work, including during transit, 
installation, and testing at the Entity’s site. 
Claims Made Policies – (If at all possible avoid and require occurrence type CGL policies) 
If any coverage required is written on a claims-made coverage form:  
1. The retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the execution date of the 
contract or the beginning of contract work. 
2. Insurance must be maintained and evidence of insurance must be provided for at least five (5) 
years after completion of contract work.  
3. If coverage is canceled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made policy form 
with a retroactive date prior to the contract effective, or start of work date, the Contractor must 
purchase extended reporting period coverage for a minimum of five (5) years after completion 
of contract work.  
4. A copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the Entity for review.  
5. If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification/remediation, the Contractors 
Pollution Liability policy shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos exclusions. If the services 
involve mold identification/remediation, the Contractors Pollution Liability policy shall not 
contain a mold exclusion, and the definition of Pollution shall include microbial matter, including 
mold.  
 
14 of 302

--- page 15 ---
Acceptability of Insurers  
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current A.M. 
Best rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the Entity.  
Waiver of Subrogation  
Contractor hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any insurer of Contractor may acquire 
from Contractor by virtue of the payment of any loss. Contractor agrees to obtain any endorsement 
that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The Workers’ Compensation policy shall be 
endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of the Entity for all work performed by the Contractor, 
its employees, agents and subcontractors.  
Verification of Coverage  
Contractor shall furnish the Entity with original Certificates of Insurance including all required amendatory endorsements 
(or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and 
Endorsement Page of the CGL policy listing all policy endorsements to Entity before work begins. However, failure to obtain 
the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s obligation to provide them.  The Entity 
reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements, required 
by these specifications, at any time.    
Subcontractors  
Contractor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all the 
requirements stated herein, and Contractor shall ensure that Entity is an additional insured on insurance 
required from subcontractors. For CGL coverage subcontractors shall provide coverage with a form at 
least as broad as CG 20 38 04 13. 
Surety Bonds  
Contractor shall provide the following Surety Bonds: 
1. Bid bond 
2. Performance bond 
3. Payment bond 
4. Maintenance bond 
The Payment Bond and the Performance Bond shall be in a sum equal to the contract price. If the 
Performance Bond provides for a one-year warranty a separate Maintenance Bond is not necessary.  If 
the warranty period specified in the contract is for longer than one year a Maintenance Bond equal to 
10% of the contract price is required.  Bonds shall be duly executed by a responsible corporate surety, 
authorized to issue such bonds in the State of California and secured through an authorized agent with 
an office in California. 
Special Risks or Circumstances 
Entity reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of the risk, 
prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other circumstances. 
City of San Mateo (CSM) SPECIAL PROVISIONS TEMPLATE.  
 
15 of 302

--- page 16 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 82-468
File ID: 24-8569
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
April 15, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel – Construction Contract 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure to award a construction contract to Angeles 
Contractor, Inc. in the amount of $379,386.64; approve the construction contract and establish a contingency reserve in 
the amount of $57,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form 
presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
The Shoreview Park public restrooms are due for remodeling. Renovations are needed to replace old infrastructure and 
upgrade the facilities to comply with current accessibility standards required by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). 
In 2016, the Public Works Facilities Division and the Parks and Recreation Department assessed the restrooms and 
developed a long-term plan for remodeling based on greatest need and available funding. Park restrooms included in 
Phases I, II, III and IV (Beresford and Los Prados, Martin Luther King, Bayside, Parkside, Indian Springs, Casanova, and Fiesta 
Meadows) were remodeled in 2016-2023. The park restrooms included in Phase V include the Shoreview and Lakeshore 
parks. 
The construction drawings for the renovation of the Shoreview Park restrooms were developed by Public Works in 
coordination with the Parks and Recreation Department. The scope of work includes improving accessible site features, 
new fixtures, flooring, wall finishes, lighting, and painting. The City’s Building Division approved the construction drawings 
for a building permit, which was used as the basis for development of a fixed-price proposal utilizing a process called “job 
order contracting” (JOC). The JOC process includes a contract for a fixed term or maximum dollar value in which a 
contractor is selected based on a competitive bid to perform various and separate job orders in the future, during the life 
of the contract. The JOC contract serves as an "on call" contracting program that is procured through one umbrella or 
framework contract. The contract is competitively procured at the onset of the program using a unit price book (UPB), unit 
price list construction catalog, or custom list of construction prices as a basis for pricing in the procurement process. Each 
individual job order is then priced from that UPB and allows for rapid deployment of projects with a transparent pricing 
mechanism. 
The JOC process is a competitive procurement method for construction services approved by the City Council by resolution 
on March 18, 2019, pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.60.070(h)(3), which permits the use of procedures 
approved by the Council that are not set forth in the purchasing ordinance. Specifically, this process involves the 
development of a detailed project list, establishment of a firm price using a unit price book, and the selection of a pre-
qualified construction contractor upon the City’s authorization to proceed. 
In this case, a multi-step process was used to select Angeles Contractor, Inc. to perform the work, subject to Council 
16 of 302

--- page 17 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
approval. First, Sourcewell (formerly known as the National Joint Powers Alliance or NJPA) conducted a competitive 
proposal process to select The Gordian Group, Inc. (Gordian) to implement JOC on behalf of Sourcewell member agencies. 
Second, Gordian competitively bids and administers the JOC process with the use of Gordian’s unit price book that will 
provide the best price to the City. This allows the City to complete required public improvements efficiently by eliminating 
the need to develop project specifications and eliminating solicitation of bids through a project-specific competitive 
bidding process. Here, Gordian used the JOC process to select Angeles Contractor, Inc., the low bidder and pre-qualified 
contractor selected to construct the improvement project.  
The request for 15% contingency is above the typical 10% and is based on experiences with previous park restroom 
remodels such as foundation movement, existing non-compliant conditions, or underground utility conflicts.  Similar 
conditions are expected at this location during construction.
With contract approval, construction will begin in May 2024 and be complete by August 2024. Based on the above, staff 
recommends award of the contract to Angeles Contractor, Inc. because of their experience and availability to perform 
these construction services. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is sufficient funding available in the Phase V Park Restroom Project (46F015) project to award this agreement. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Contract
STAFF CONTACT
Steve Wu, Project Manager II
swu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7345
17 of 302

--- page 18 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2024) 
 
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE TO AWARD A CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT TO 
ANGELES CONTRACTOR, INC. FOR THE SHOREVIEW PARK RESTROOM REMODEL 
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to
approve alternative purchasing procedures upon a finding that the alternative purchasing procedure is
in the best interest of the City; and
WHEREAS, Sourcewell (formerly known as NJPA) has conducted competitive bidding processes to select 
Gordian, Inc. (Gordian) to implement Job Order Contracting on behalf of their member agencies; and
WHEREAS, the Job Order Contracting process allows for an umbrella construction contract to cover 
various and separate job orders during the life of the contract, and is beneficial for renovation, remodeling, or 
alterations where many small project tasks will arise, but the timing, type, and quantity of work are unknown; 
and
WHEREAS, Sourcewell and Gordian have conducted competitive bidding to select contractors to perform 
Job Order Contracting based on Gordian’s Unit Price Book; and
WHEREAS, unit price books provide fixed unit prices used for establishing budgets for contractor 
services at member agencies; and
WHEREAS, use of Gordian’s Unit Price Book and contract provides a competitive price to the City and 
allows the City to complete required public improvements efficiently by eliminating the need to develop project 
specifications or solicit bids for each minor project task; and
WHEREAS, on March 18, 2019, the City Council adopted a resolution approving Job Order Contracting as 
a competitive procurement method for construction services based upon findings that the Job Order 
Contracting process with Gordian is in the best interests of the City; and
WHEREAS, the Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel project is designed and documented to be priced 
using Gordian’s Unit Price Book; and
WHEREAS, Angeles Contractor, Inc. was selected based on their experience and availability to perform 
construction services using the Gordian’s Unit Price Book; and
WHEREAS, based on these circumstances, staff has determined that this is the best price available 
because companies have submitted competitive bids. 
18 of 302

--- page 19 ---
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that: 
 
1.
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15301, this project is categorically exempt from CEQA as 
an “existing facility” in that it consists of the renovation of an existing building and involves negligible 
or no expansion of existing or former use.
2.
The Job Order Contracting process, as approved by City Council on March 18, 2019, utilizing Gordian’s 
contract and Unit Price Book to award a construction contract to Angeles Contractor, Inc. is in the 
best interests of the City because it offers the best price to the City and allows the City to complete 
the restroom remodel efficiently by eliminating the need to develop project specifications eliminating 
solicitation of bids through a project-specific competitive bidding process.
19 of 302

--- page 20 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 1 of 46
CONTRACT FOR CONSTRUCTION
This Contract is by and between.
OWNER
CONTRACTOR
The City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Street
San Mateo, California 94403
Angeles Contractor, Inc.
783 Phillips Drive
City of Industry, CA 91748
Owner and Contractor hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 - THE WORK
1.01
Work
A.
Work includes all labor, materials, equipment, services, and documentation necessary to 
construct the Project defined herein.  The Work may include related services such as testing, 
start-up, and commissioning, all as required by the Contract Documents.
B.
The Contractor shall complete all Work as specified or indicated in the Contract Documents. 
The Project is generally described as follows:
1.
Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel which includes site barriers; demolition and 
disposal; framing; plumbing; electrical; mechanical; new fixtures; new accessories; 
wall tile; flooring; painting; inspection; testing and closeout.
2.
The Site of the Work includes designated work areas described in greater detail in the 
Contract Documents but generally located at 950 Ocean Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94401.
ARTICLE 2 - DEFINITIONS AND TERMINOLOGY
2.01
Defined Terms
A.
Wherever used in the Bidding Requirements or Contract Documents, a term printed with 
initial capital letters, including the term’s singular and plural forms, will have the meaning 
indicated in the definitions below. In addition to terms specifically defined, terms with initial 
capital letters in the Contract Documents include references to identified articles and 
paragraphs, and the titles of other documents or forms.
1.
Constituent of Concern—Asbestos, petroleum, radioactive materials, polychlorinated 
biphenyls (PCBs), hazardous waste, and any substance, product, waste, or other 
material of any nature whatsoever that is or becomes listed, regulated, or addressed 
pursuant to (a) the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and 
Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. §§9601 et seq. (“CERCLA”); (b) the Hazardous Materials 
Transportation Act, 49 U.S.C. §§5501 et seq.; (c) the Resource Conservation and 
Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. §§6901 et seq. (“RCRA”); (d) the Toxic Substances Control Act, 
15 U.S.C. §§2601 et seq.; (e) the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§1251 et seq.; (f) the Clean 
Air Act, 42 U.S.C.  §§7401 et seq.; or (g) any other federal, state, or local statute, law, 
rule, regulation,  ordinance, resolution, code, order, or decree regulating, relating to, or 
imposing liability or  standards of conduct concerning, any hazardous, toxic, or 
dangerous waste, substance, or material.
20 of 302

--- page 21 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 2 of 46
2.
Hazardous Environmental Condition— The presence at the Site of Constituents of 
Concern in such quantities or circumstances that may present a danger to persons or 
property exposed thereto. The presence at the Site of materials that are necessary for 
the execution of the Work, or that are to be incorporated in the Work, and that are 
controlled and contained pursuant to industry practices, Laws and Regulations, and the 
requirements of the Contract, does not establish a Hazardous Environmental Condition.
3.
Resident Project Representative - The authorized representative of Owner assigned to 
assist Owner at the Site. As used herein, the term Resident Project Representative or 
“RPR” includes any assistants or field staff of Resident Project Representative.  The RPR 
for this project is:
a.
Steve Wu, City of San Mateo
2.02
Terminology
A.
The words and terms discussed in the following paragraphs are not defined but, when used 
in the Bidding Requirements or Contract Documents, have the indicated meaning.
B.
Intent of Certain Terms or Adjectives:
1.
The Contract Documents include the terms “as allowed,” “as approved,” “as ordered,” 
“as directed” or terms of like effect or import to authorize an exercise of professional 
judgment by Owner, Engineer, or Architect. In addition, the adjectives “reasonable,” 
“suitable,” “acceptable,” “proper,” “satisfactory,” or adjectives of like effect or import 
are used to describe an action or determination of Engineer as to the Work. It is 
intended that such exercise of professional judgment, action, or determination will be 
solely to evaluate, in general, the Work for compliance with the information in the 
Contract Documents and with the design concept of the Project as a functioning whole 
as shown or indicated in the Contract Documents (unless there is a specific statement 
indicating otherwise). The use of any such term or adjective is not intended to and shall 
not be effective to assign to Engineer any duty or authority to supervise or direct the 
performance of the Work, or any duty or authority to undertake responsibility contrary 
to the provisions of any provision of the Contract Documents.
C.
Day:
1.
The word “day” means a calendar day of 24 hours measured from midnight to the next 
midnight.
D.
Defective:
1.
The word “defective,” when modifying the word “Work,” refers to Work that is 
unsatisfactory, faulty, or deficient in that it:
a.
does not conform to the Contract Documents; or
b.
does not meet the requirements of any applicable inspection, reference standard, 
test, or approval referred to in the Contract Documents; or
c.
has been damaged prior to Engineer’s recommendation of final payment (unless 
responsibility for the protection thereof has been assumed by Owner at Substantial 
Completion.
E.
Furnish, Install, Perform, Provide:
21 of 302

--- page 22 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 3 of 46
1.
The word “furnish,” when used in connection with services, materials, or equipment, 
shall mean to supply and deliver said services, materials, or equipment to the Site (or 
some other specified location) ready for use or installation and in usable or operable 
condition.
2.
The word “install,” when used in connection with services, materials, or equipment, 
shall mean to put into use or place in final position said services, materials, or equipment 
complete and ready for intended use.
3.
The words “perform” or “provide,” when used in connection with services, materials, or 
equipment, shall mean to furnish and install said services, materials, or equipment 
complete and ready for intended use.
4.
If the Contract Documents establish an obligation of Contractor with respect to specific 
services, materials, or equipment, but do not expressly use any of the four words 
“furnish,” “install,” “perform,” or “provide,” then Contractor shall furnish and install 
said services, materials, or equipment complete and ready for intended use.
F.
Unless stated otherwise in the Contract Documents, words or phrases that have a well- 
known technical or construction industry or trade meaning are used in the Contract 
Documents in accordance with such recognized meaning.
2.03
Contract Documents Defined
A.
The Contract Documents consist of the following documents:
1.
This Contract.
2.
Performance bond.
3.
Payment bond.
4.
Exhibits to this Contract (enumerated as follows):
a.
Exhibit A – Scope of Work
b.
Exhibit B – Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts.
5.
National Joint Powers Alliance - Book 2: IQCC Standard Terms and Conditions and 
Contract General Conditions.
6.
National Joint Powers Alliance - Book 3: Task Catalog.
7.
National Joint Powers Alliance Book 4: Technical Specifications.
8.
The following which may be delivered or issued on or after the Effective Date of the 
Contract:
a.
Work Change Directives.
b.
Change Orders.
c.
Field Orders.
22 of 302

--- page 23 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 4 of 46
ARTICLE 3 - CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
3.01
Intent of Contract Documents
A.
It is the intent of the Contract Documents to describe a functionally complete project. The 
Contract Documents do not indicate or describe all the Work required to complete the 
Project. Additional details required for the correct installation of selected products are to be 
provided by the Contractor and coordinated with the Owner and RPR. This Contract 
supersedes prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, whether written or oral. 
The Contract Documents are complementary; what is required by one part of the Contract 
Documents is as binding as if required by other parts of the Contract Documents.
B.
During the performance of the Work and until final payment, Contractor and Owner shall 
submit all matters in question concerning the requirements of the Contract Documents or 
relating to the acceptability of the Work under the Contract Documents to the RPR. RPR will 
be the initial interpreter of the requirements of the Contract Documents, and judge of the 
acceptability of the Work thereunder.
C.
RPR will render a written clarification, interpretation, or decision on the issue submitted, or 
initiate a modification to the Contract Documents.
D.
Contractor, and its subcontractors and suppliers, shall not have or acquire any title to or 
ownership rights to any of the Drawings, Specifications, or other documents (including copies 
or electronic media editions) prepared by RPR or its consultants.
3.02
Reporting and Resolving Discrepancies
A.
Reporting Discrepancies:
1.
Contractor’s Verification of Figures and Field Measurements: Before undertaking each 
part of the Work, Contractor shall carefully study the Contract Documents, and check 
and verify pertinent figures and dimensions therein, particularly with respect to 
applicable field measurements. Contractor shall promptly report in writing to Engineer 
any conflict, error, ambiguity, or discrepancy that Contractor discovers, or has actual 
knowledge of, and shall not proceed with any Work affected thereby until the conflict, 
error, ambiguity, or discrepancy is resolved, by a clarification or interpretation by 
Engineer, or by an amendment or supplement to the Contract Documents.
2.
Contractor’s Review of Contract Documents: If, before or during the performance of the 
Work, Contractor discovers any conflict, error, ambiguity, or discrepancy within the 
Contract Documents, or between the Contract Documents and (a) any applicable Law 
or Regulation, (b) actual field conditions, (c) any standard specification, manual, 
reference standard, or code, or (d) any instruction of any Supplier, then Contractor shall 
promptly report it to Engineer in writing. Contractor shall not proceed with the Work 
affected thereby (except in an emergency as required by Paragraph 7.15) until the 
conflict, error, ambiguity, or discrepancy is resolved, by a clarification or interpretation 
by Engineer, or by an amendment or supplement to the Contract Documents issued 
pursuant to Paragraph 11.01.
3.
Contractor shall not be liable to Owner or Engineer for failure to report any conflict, 
error, ambiguity, or discrepancy in the Contract Documents unless Contractor had 
actual knowledge thereof.
23 of 302

--- page 24 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 5 of 46
B.
Resolving Discrepancies:
1.
Except as may be otherwise specifically stated in the Contract Documents, the 
provisions of the Contract Documents shall take precedence in resolving any conflict, 
error, ambiguity, or discrepancy between such provisions of the Contract Documents 
and:
a.
the provisions of any standard specification, manual, reference standard, or code, 
or the instruction of any Supplier (whether or not specifically incorporated by 
reference as a Contract Document); or
b.
the provisions of any Laws or Regulations applicable to the performance of the 
Work (unless such an interpretation of the provisions of the Contract Documents 
would result in violation of such Law or Regulation).
2.
When a conflict exists between drawings or between drawings and details, the more 
stringent of the two shall prevail.  When a conflict exists between two specifications, 
the more stringent of the two shall prevail.
3.
In the event of a conflict that cannot be resolved by interpreting the Contract 
Documents as a single, integrated document and giving effect to each provision therein, 
the Contract Document higher in precedence shall control and supersede the Contract 
Documents lower in precedence in accordance with the following listing arranged from 
the highest to the lowest in precedence: 
a.
Change Order.
b.
Addenda.
c.
Contract.
d.
Technical Specifications included as an Exhibit to this Contract.
e.
Drawings included as an Exhibit to this Contract.
f.
Owner Standard Specifications.
g.
Owner Standard Drawings.
h.
National Joint Powers Alliance Book 4: Technical Specifications.
i.
National Joint Powers Alliance - Book 2: IQCC Standard Terms and Conditions and 
Contract General Conditions.
j.
The provisions of any standard specification, manual, reference standard, or code, 
or the instruction of any Supplier (whether or not specifically incorporated by 
reference as a Contract Document).
k.
The provisions of any Laws or Regulations applicable to the performance of the 
Work (unless such an interpretation of the provisions of the Contract Documents 
would result in violation of such Law or Regulation).
l.
Notice to Bidder.
m.
Instruction to Bidder.
24 of 302

--- page 25 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 6 of 46
ARTICLE 4 - CONTRACT TIMES
4.01
Contract Times
A.
The Work will be substantially completed within 365 days after the Effective Date of the 
Contract and completed and ready for final payment within 395 days after the Effective Date 
of the Contract.
4.02
Liquidated Damages
A.
Contractor and Owner recognize that time is of the essence in the performance of the 
Contract, and that Owner will incur damages if Contractor does not complete the Work 
according to the requirements of Paragraph 4.01. Because such damages for delay would be 
difficult and costly to determine and the parties agree that $1000 per day is a reasonable 
approximation of the Owner’s damages, Owner and Contractor agree that as liquidated 
damages for delay (but not as a penalty) Contractor shall pay Owner $1000 for each day that 
expires after the Contract Time for substantial completion.
4.03
Delays in Contractor’s Progress
A.
If Owner, RPR, or anyone for whom Owner is responsible, delays, disrupts, or interferes with 
the performance or progress of the Work, then Contractor shall be entitled to an equitable 
adjustment in the Contract Times and Contract Price. Contractor’s entitlement to an 
adjustment of the Contract Times is conditioned on such adjustment being essential to 
Contractor’s ability to complete the Work within the Contract Times.
B.
Contractor shall not be entitled to an adjustment in Contract Price or Contract Times for 
delay, disruption, or interference caused by or within the control of Contractor or their 
subcontractors or suppliers.
C.
If Contractor’s performance or progress is delayed, disrupted, or interfered with by 
unanticipated causes not the fault of and beyond the control of Owner, Contractor, and those 
for which they are responsible, then Contractor shall be entitled to an equitable adjustment 
in Contract Times.
D.
Contractor shall not be entitled to an adjustment in Contract Price or Contract Times for any 
delay, disruption, or interference if such delay is concurrent with a delay, disruption, or 
interference caused by or within the control of Contractor or Contractor’s subcontractors or 
suppliers.
4.04
Progress Schedules
A.
Contractor shall develop a progress schedule and submit to the RPR for review and comment 
before starting Work on the Site. The Contractor shall modify the schedule in accordance 
with the comments provided by the RPR.
B.
The Contractor shall update and submit the progress schedule to the RPR each month. The 
Owner may withhold payment if the Contractor fails to submit the schedule.
ARTICLE 5 - CONTRACT PRICE
5.01
Payment
A.
Owner shall pay Contractor in accordance with the Contract Documents, the lump sum 
amount of $379,386.64 for all Work.
25 of 302

--- page 26 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 7 of 46
B.
For any additional Work authorized by Owner, Owner shall pay Contractor in an amount 
equal to the total of all extended prices for actual Work completed. The extended price is 
determined by multiplying the unit price in the National Joint Powers Alliance - Book 3: Task 
Catalog times the actual quantity of that Work item completed. Actual quantities installed 
will be determined by the RPR.
ARTICLE 6 - BONDS AND INSURANCE
6.01
Bonds
A.
Before starting Work, Contractor shall furnish a performance bond and a payment bond from 
surety companies that are duly licensed or authorized to issue bonds in the required amounts 
in the jurisdiction in which the Project is located. Each bond shall be in an amount equal to 
the Contract Price, as security for the faithful performance and payment of all of Contractor’s 
obligations under the Contract. These bonds shall remain in effect until the completion of 
the correction period specified in Paragraph 7.12 but, in any case, not less than one year 
after the date when final payment becomes due.
B.
Performance by Sureties.  In the event of any termination, Owner shall immediately give 
written notice to Contractor and Contractor’s sureties, and the sureties shall have the right 
to take over and perform the Contract, provided, however, that if the sureties, within five 
days after giving them notice of said termination, do not give Owner written notice of their 
intention to take over the performance thereof within five days after notice, Owner may take 
over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it 
may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of Contractor, and the sureties shall 
be liable to Owner for any excess cost or damages occasioned Owner thereby; and, in such 
event, Owner may, without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing 
the work, such materials, appliances, plant and other property belonging to Contractor as 
may be on the site of the work and necessary therefore
6.02
Insurance
A.
The Contractor shall procure and maintain the insurance specified in the Exhibit B of this 
Contract for the greater of (1) the duration of the contract plus a period of five (5) years after 
completion of the Project or (2) the duration shown in Exhibit B.
ARTICLE 7 - CONTRACTOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES
7.01
Supervision and Superintendence
A.
Contractor shall supervise and direct the Work competently and efficiently, devoting such 
attention thereto and applying such skills and expertise as may be necessary to perform the 
Work in accordance with the Contract Documents. Contractor shall be solely responsible for 
the means, methods, techniques, sequences, safety, and procedures of construction.
B.
Contractor shall assign a competent resident superintendent who is to be present at all times 
during the execution of the Work. This resident superintendent shall not be replaced without 
written notice to and approval by the Owner and RPR except under extraordinary 
circumstances.
C.
Contractor shall at all times maintain good discipline and order at the Site.
26 of 302

--- page 27 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 8 of 46
D.
Except as otherwise required for the safety or protection of persons or the Work or property 
at the Site or adjacent thereto, and except as otherwise stated in the Contract Documents, 
all Work at the Site shall be performed during regular working hours, Monday through Friday.
7.02
Other Work at the Site
A.
In addition to and apart from the Work of the Contractor, other work may occur at or 
adjacent to the Site. Contractor shall take reasonable and customary measures to avoid 
damaging, delaying, disrupting, or interfering with the work of Owner, any other contractor, 
or any utility owner performing other work at or adjacent to the Site.
7.03
Services, Materials, and Equipment
A.
Unless otherwise specified in the Contract Documents, Contractor shall provide and assume 
full responsibility for all services, materials, equipment, labor, transportation, construction 
equipment and machinery, tools, appliances, fuel, power, light, heat, telephone, water, 
sanitary facilities, temporary facilities, and all other facilities and incidentals necessary for 
the performance, testing, start up, and completion of the Work, whether or not such items 
are specifically called for in the Contract Documents.
B.
All materials and equipment incorporated into the Work shall be new, of good quality and 
shall be stored, applied, installed, connected, erected, protected, used, cleaned, and 
conditioned in accordance with instructions of the applicable supplier, except as otherwise 
may be provided in the Contract Documents.
7.04
Subcontractors and Suppliers
A.
Contractor may retain subcontractors and suppliers for the performance of parts of the Work 
acceptable to Owner, provided that no work may be performed by a subcontractor who is 
debarred pursuant to Labor Code Sections 1777.1 or 1777.7. 
7.05
Quality Management
A.
Contractor is fully responsible for the managing quality to ensure Work is completed in 
accordance with the Contract Documents.
7.06
Licenses, Fees and Permits
A.
Contractor shall pay all license fees and royalties and assume all costs incident to performing 
the Work or the incorporation in the Work of any invention, design, process, product, or 
device which is the subject of patent rights or copyrights held by others.
B.
Contractor shall obtain and pay for all construction permits and licenses unless otherwise 
provided in the Contract Documents.
7.07
Laws and Regulations; Taxes
A.
Contractor shall give all notices required by and shall comply with all local, state, and federal 
Laws and Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. Except where otherwise 
expressly required by applicable Laws and Regulations, neither Owner nor RPR shall be 
responsible for monitoring Contractor’s compliance with any Laws or Regulations.
B.
Contractor shall bear all resulting costs and losses, and shall indemnify and hold harmless 
Owner and RPR, and the officers, directors, members, partners, employees, agents, 
consultants, and subcontractors of each and any of them from and against all claims, costs, 
27 of 302

--- page 28 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 9 of 46
losses, and damages if Contractor performs any Work or takes any other action knowing or 
having reason to know that it is contrary to Laws or Regulations.
C.
Contractor shall pay all applicable sales, consumer, use, and other similar taxes Contractor is 
required to pay in accordance with Laws and Regulations.
D.
In accordance with Public Contract Code Section 7103.5, the contractor offers and agrees to 
assign to the awarding body all rights, title, and interest in and to all causes of action it may 
have under Section 4 of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. Sec. 15) or under the Cartwright Act 
(Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 16700) of Part 2 of Division 7 of the Business and 
Professions Code), arising from purchases of goods, services, or materials pursuant to the 
public works contract or the subcontract.  This assignment shall be made and become 
effective at the time the awarding body tenders final payment to the contractor, without 
further acknowledgment by the parties. 
E.
Contractor shall give notice of hazardous materials and certain changed conditions in jobs 
involving trenching more than four feet deep.  
F.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1773.2, contractor will make travel and subsistence 
payments as required by statute.  
G.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1771, contractor must pay prevailing wages.  The 
prevailing wage scale as determined by the Director of Industrial Relations of the State of 
California, in force on the day the bid was announced, will be the minimum paid to all 
craftsmen and laborers working on this project.  Contractor shall also require any 
subcontractors who work or provide any services related to the project to pay all persons 
performing labor or rendering service under said subcontract or other arrangement at least 
the general prevailing rate of wages, determined as set forth herein for the respective crafts 
and employments, including such wages for holiday and overtime work.  A copy of the correct 
determination will be posted at the job site.  It is understood that it is the responsibility of 
Contractor to determine the correct scale.  Copies of the prevailing wage rates are on file at 
the City Clerk’s office; however, errors or defects in the materials in the City Clerk’s office will 
not excuse a bidder’s failure to comply with the actual scale then in force.  In accordance 
with Labor Code Section 1775, the statutory provisions for failure to pay prevailing wages 
will be enforced.
H.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1776, contractor must comply with the statutory 
requirements relating to certified copies of payroll records.  
I.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1777.5, contractor must comply with the statutory 
requirements relating to the employment of apprentices.  
J.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1810, eight hours labor constitutes a legal day’s work.  
Contractor shall not require more than eight hours’ labor in a day and 40 hours in a calendar 
week from any person employed by Contractor in the performance of such work unless such 
excess work is compensated for at not less than one and one-half times the basic rate of pay.  
Contractor shall forfeit as a penalty to Owner the sum of $25.00 for each laborer, workman, 
or mechanic employed in the execution of this contract by Contractor, or by any 
subcontractor, for each calendar day during which such laborer, workman, or mechanic is 
required or permitted to labor more than eight hours in any calendar day and 40 hours in 
any one calendar week in violation of the provisions of Section 1810 and 1816, inclusive, of 
the Labor Code of the State of California.  
28 of 302

--- page 29 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 10 of 46
K.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1813, the statutory provisions for penalties for failure 
to comply with wage and hour laws will be enforced.  
L.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1860, the contractor must secure the payment of 
workers’ compensation to its employees.  
M.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 6705, the contractor must submit a detailed plan of 
the shoring and bracing for trenches five feet deep or more for contracts in excess of $25,000.  
N.
In accordance with Labor Code Sections 1725.5 and 1771.1, all contractors and 
subcontractors must be registered with the Department of Industrial Relations.  In 
accordance with Labor Code Section 1771.4, the contractor must post job site notices as 
required by regulation and this project will be subject to compliance monitoring and 
enforcement by the Department of Industrial Relations.  
7.08
Record Documents
A.
Contractor shall maintain one printed record copy of all Drawings, Specifications, Addenda, 
Change Orders, Work Change Directives, Field Orders, written interpretations and 
clarifications, and approved shop drawings in a safe place at the Site. Contractor shall 
annotate them to show changes made during construction. Contractor shall deliver these 
record documents to RPR upon completion of the Work.
7.09
Safety and Protection
A.
Contractor shall be solely responsible for initiating, maintaining, and supervising all safety 
precautions and programs in connection with the Work.
B.
Contractor shall take all necessary precautions for the safety of, and shall provide the 
necessary protection to prevent damage, injury, or loss to:
1.
All persons on the Site or who may be affected by the Work;
2.
All the Work and materials and equipment to be incorporated therein, whether in 
storage on or off the Site; and
3.
Other property at the Site or adjacent thereto, including trees, shrubs, lawns, walks, 
pavements, roadways, structures, other work in progress, utilities, and underground 
facilities not designated for removal, relocation, or replacement in the course of 
construction.
C.
All damage, injury, or loss to any property caused, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, 
by Contractor, or anyone for whose acts the Contractor may be liable, shall be remedied by 
Contractor at its expense (except damage or loss attributable to the fault of Contract 
Documents or to the acts or omissions of Owner or RPR and not attributable, directly or 
indirectly, in whole or in part, to the fault or negligence of Contractor).
D.
Contractor shall be responsible for coordinating any exchange of material safety data sheets 
or other hazard communication information required to be made available to or exchanged 
between or among employers at the Site in accordance with Laws or Regulations.
E.
In emergencies affecting the safety or protection of persons or the Work or property at the 
Site or adjacent thereto, Contractor shall act to prevent threatened damage, injury, or loss. 
Contractor shall give RPR prompt written notice if Contractor believes that any significant 
changes in the Work or variations from the Contract Documents have been caused thereby 
or are required as a result thereof. If RPR determines that a change in the Contract 
29 of 302

--- page 30 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 11 of 46
Documents is required because of the action taken by Contractor in response to such an 
emergency, a Work Change Directive or Change Order will be issued.
7.10
Shop Drawings, Samples, and Other Submittals
A.
Contractor shall review and coordinate the shop drawing and samples with the requirements 
of the Work and the Contract Documents and shall verify all related field measurements, 
quantities, dimensions, specified performance and design criteria, installation requirements, 
materials, catalog numbers, and similar information.
B.
Each submittal shall bear a stamp or specific written certification that Contractor has satisfied 
Contractor’s obligations under the Contract Documents with respect to Contractor’s review 
of that submittal, and that Contractor approves the submittal.
C.
With each submittal, Contractor shall give RPR specific written notice, in a communication 
separate from the submittal, of any variations that the shop drawing or sample may have 
from the requirements of the Contract Documents.
D.
RPR will provide timely review of shop drawings and samples.
E.
RPR’s review and approval will not extend to means, methods, techniques, sequences, or 
procedures of construction or to safety precautions or programs.
F.
RPR’s review and approval of a separate item does not indicate approval of the assembly in 
which the item functions.
G.
Contractor shall make corrections required by RPR and shall return the required number of 
corrected copies of shop drawings and submit, as required, new samples for review and 
approval. Contractor shall direct specific attention in writing to revisions other than the 
corrections called for by RPR on previous submittals.
H.
Shop drawings are not Contract Documents.
7.11
Warranties and Guarantees
A.
Contractor warrants and guarantees to Owner that all Work will be in accordance with the 
Contract Documents and will not be defective. RPR and its officers, directors, members, 
partners, employees, agents, consultants, and subcontractors shall be entitled to rely on 
Contractor’s warranty and guarantee.
7.12
Correction Period
A.
If within one year after the date of substantial completion, any Work is found to be defective, 
or if the repair of any damages to the Site, adjacent areas that Contractor has arranged to 
use through construction easements or otherwise, and other adjacent areas used by 
Contractor as permitted by Laws and Regulations, is found to be defective, then Contractor 
shall promptly and without cost to Owner, correct such defective Work.
7.13
Indemnification
A.
To the fullest extent permitted by Laws and Regulations, and in addition to any other 
obligations of Contractor under the Contract or otherwise, Contractor shall indemnify and 
hold harmless Owner and RPR, and the officials, employees, and agents, of each and any of 
them from and against all claims, costs, losses, and damages (including but not limited to all 
fees and charges of RPR, architects, attorneys, and other professionals and all court or 
arbitration or other dispute resolution costs) arising out of or relating to the performance of 
30 of 302

--- page 31 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 12 of 46
the Work.  Contractor will defend Owner, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents against any such claims.  However, this provision does not apply to claims, loss, 
liability, damage, or expense arising from the sole negligence or willful misconduct of the 
Owner
ARTICLE 8 - OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITIES
8.01
Owner’s Responsibilities
A.
Except as otherwise provided in the Contract Documents, Owner shall issue all 
communications to Contractor through RPR.
B.
Owner shall make payments to Contractor as provided in this Contract.
C.
Owner shall provide Site and easements required to construct the Project.
D.
If Owner intends to contract with others for the performance of other work at or adjacent to 
the Site, unless stated elsewhere in the Contract Documents, Owner shall have sole authority 
and responsibility for such coordination.
E.
The Owner shall be responsible for performing inspections and tests required by applicable 
codes.
F.
The Owner shall not supervise, direct, or have control or authority over, nor be responsible 
for, Contractor’s means, methods, techniques, sequences, or procedures of construction, or 
the safety precautions and programs, or for any failure of Contractor to comply with Laws 
and Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. Owner will not be responsible 
for Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents.
G.
While at the Site, Owner’s employees and representatives shall comply with the specific 
applicable requirements of Contractor’s safety programs of which Owner has been informed.
H.
Owner shall furnish copies of any applicable Owner safety programs to Contractor.
I.
In accordance with Public Contract Code Section 9201, Owner shall give contractor timely 
notification of the receipt of any third-party claims relating to the contract. 
ARTICLE 9 - RPR’S STATUS DURING CONSTRUCTION
9.01
RPR’s Status
A.
RPR will be Owner’s representative during construction. The duties and responsibilities and 
the limitations of authority of RPR as Owner’s representative during construction are set 
forth in this Contract.
B.
Neither RPR’s authority or responsibility under this Article 9 or under any other provision of 
the Contract, nor any decision made by RPR in good faith either to exercise or not exercise 
such authority or responsibility or the undertaking, exercise, or performance of any authority 
or responsibility by RPR, shall create, impose, or give rise to any duty in contract, tort, or 
otherwise owed by RPR to Contractor, any subcontractor, any supplier, any other individual 
or entity, or to any surety for or employee or agent of any of them.
C.
RPR will make visits to the Site at intervals appropriate to the various stages of construction. 
RPR will not be required to make exhaustive or continuous inspections on the Site to check 
the quality or quantity of the Work.
31 of 302

--- page 32 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 13 of 46
D.
RPR has the authority to reject Work if Contractor fails to perform Work in accordance with 
the Contract Documents.
E.
RPR will render decisions regarding the requirements of the Contract Documents and judge 
the acceptability of the Work.
F.
RPR will not supervise, direct, control, or have authority over or be responsible for 
Contractor’s means, methods, techniques, sequences, or procedures of construction, or the 
safety precautions and programs, or for any failure of Contractor to comply with Laws and 
Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. RPR will not be responsible for 
Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents.
ARTICLE 10 - CHANGES IN THE WORK
10.01
Authority to Change the Work
A.
Without invalidating the Contract and without notice to any surety, Owner may, at any time 
or from time to time, order additions, deletions, or revisions in the Work.
10.02
Change Orders
A.
Owner and Contractor shall execute appropriate Change Orders covering:
1.
Changes in the Contract Price or Contract Times which are agreed to by the parties, 
including any undisputed sum or amount of time for Work actually performed in 
accordance with a Work Change Directive;
2.
Changes in the Work which are: (a) ordered by Owner or (b) agreed to by the parties or 
(c) resulting from the RPR’s decision, subject to the need for RPR’s recommendation if 
the change in the Work involves the design (as set forth in the Drawings, Specifications, 
or otherwise), or other engineering or technical matters; and
3.
Changes in the Contract Price or Contract Times or other changes which embody the 
substance of any final binding results under Article 12.
B.
If the provisions of any bond require notice to be given to a surety of any change affecting 
the general scope of the Work or the provisions of the Contract Documents (including, but 
not limited to, Contract Price or Contract Times), the giving of any such notice will be 
Contractor’s responsibility. The amount of each applicable bond will be adjusted to reflect 
the effect of any such change.
ARTICLE 11 - DIFFERING SUBSURFACE OR PHYSICAL CONDITIONS
11.01
Differing Conditions Process
A.
If Contractor believes that any subsurface or physical condition including but not limited to 
utilities or other underground facilities that are uncovered or revealed at the Site either 
differs materially from that shown or indicated in the Contract Documents or is of an unusual 
nature, and differs materially from conditions ordinarily encountered and generally 
recognized as inherent in Work of the character provided for in the Contract Documents then 
Contractor shall, promptly after becoming aware thereof and before further disturbing the 
subsurface or physical conditions or performing any Work in connection therewith (except 
in an emergency), notify Owner and RPR in writing about such condition. Contractor shall not 
further disturb such condition or perform any Work in connection therewith (except with 
32 of 302

--- page 33 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 14 of 46
respect to an emergency) until receipt of a written statement permitting Contractor to do 
so.
B.
After receipt of written notice, RPR will promptly:
1.
Review the subsurface or physical condition in question;
2.
Determine necessity for Owner obtaining additional exploration or tests with respect to 
the condition;
3.
Determine whether the condition falls within the differing site condition as stated 
herein;
4.
Obtain any pertinent cost or schedule information from Contractor;
5.
Prepare recommendations to Owner regarding the Contractor’s resumption of Work in 
connection with the subsurface or physical condition in question and the need for any 
change in the Drawings or Specifications; and
6.
Advise Owner in writing of RPR’s findings, conclusions, and recommendations.
C.
After receipt of RPR’s written findings, conclusions, and recommendations, Owner shall issue 
a written statement to Contractor regarding the subsurface or physical condition in question, 
addressing the resumption of Work in connection with such condition, indicating whether 
any change in the Drawings or Specifications will be made, and adopting or rejecting RPR’s 
written findings, conclusions, and recommendations, in whole or in part.
ARTICLE 12 - CLAIMS AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION
12.01
Claims Process
A.
The party submitting a claim shall deliver it directly to the other party to the Contract and 
the RPR promptly (but in no event later than 10 days) after the start of the event giving rise 
thereto.
B.
The party receiving a claim shall review it thoroughly, giving full consideration to its merits. 
The two parties shall seek to resolve the claim through the exchange of information and 
direct negotiations. All actions taken on a claim shall be stated in writing and submitted to 
the other party.
C.
If efforts to resolve a claim are not successful, the party receiving the claim may deny it by 
giving written notice of denial to the other party. If the receiving party does not take action 
on the claim within 45 days, the claim is deemed denied.
D.
If the dispute is not resolved to the satisfaction of the parties, Owner or Contractor shall give 
written notice to the other party of the intent to submit the dispute to a court of competent 
jurisdiction unless the Owner and Contractor both agree to an alternative dispute resolution 
process.
12.02
Mediation
Should any dispute arise out of this Contract, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall 
be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each 
submit one name from mediators listed by the American Arbitration Association, the California 
State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be 
33 of 302

--- page 34 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 15 of 46
selected by a blind draw.  The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither 
party shall be deemed the prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action 
without first meeting in mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated 
settlement.  The mediation process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last 
until agreement is reach by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is 
extended by the parties.
ARTICLE 13 - TESTS AND INSPECTIONS; CORRECTION OF DEFECTIVE WORK
13.01
Tests and Inspections
A.
Owner and RPR will have access to the Site and the Work at reasonable times for their 
observation, inspection, and testing. Contractor shall provide them proper and safe 
conditions for such access.
B.
Contractor shall give RPR timely notice of readiness of the Work for all required inspections 
and tests and shall cooperate with inspection and testing personnel to facilitate required 
inspections and tests.
C.
If any Work that is to be inspected, tested, or approved is covered by Contractor without 
written concurrence of RPR, Contractor shall, if requested by RPR, uncover such Work for 
observation. Such uncovering shall be at Contractor’s expense.
13.02
Defective Work
A.
Contractor shall ensure that the Work is not defective.
B.
RPR has the authority to determine whether Work is defective, and to reject defective Work.
C.
Prompt notice of all defective Work of which Owner or RPR has actual knowledge will be 
given to Contractor.
D.
The Contractor shall promptly correct all such defective Work.
E.
When correcting defective Work, Contractor shall take no action that would void or 
otherwise impair Owner’s special warranty and guarantee, if any, on said Work.
F.
If the Work is defective or Contractor fails to supply sufficient skilled workers or suitable 
materials or equipment, or fails to perform the Work in such a way that the completed Work 
will conform to the Contract Documents, then Owner may order Contractor to stop the Work, 
or any portion thereof, until the cause for such order has been eliminated.
ARTICLE 14 - PAYMENTS TO CONTRACTOR
14.01
Progress Payments
A.
The Contractor shall prepare a schedule of values that will serve as the basis for progress 
payments. The schedule of values will be in a form of application for payment acceptable to 
RPR. The unit price breakdown submitted with the bid will be used for unit price work. Break 
lump sum items into units that will allow for measurement of Work in progress.
14.02
Applications for Payments:
A.
Contractor shall submit an application for payment in a form acceptable to the RPR, no more 
frequently than monthly, to RPR. Applications for payment will be prepared and signed by 
34 of 302

--- page 35 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 16 of 46
Contractor. Contractor shall provide supporting documentation required by the Contract 
Documents. Payment will be paid for Work completed as of the date of the application for 
payment.
B.
Beginning with the second application for payment, each application shall include an affidavit 
of Contractor stating that all previous progress payments received on account of the Work 
have been applied on account to discharge Contractor’s legitimate obligations associated 
with prior applications for payment.
14.03
Retainage
A.
The Owner shall retain 5% of each progress payment until the Work is substantially complete.
14.04
Review of Applications
A.
Within 10 days after receipt of each application for payment, the RPR will either indicate in 
writing a recommendation for payment and present the application for payment to Owner 
or return the application for payment to Contractor indicating in writing RPR’s reasons for 
refusing to recommend payment. The Contractor will make the necessary corrections and 
resubmit the application for payment.
B.
RPR will recommend reductions in payment (set-offs) which, in the opinion of the RPR, are 
necessary to protect Owner from loss because the Work is defective and requires correction 
or replacement.
C.
The Owner is entitled to impose set-offs against payment based on any claims that have been 
made against Owner on account of Contractor’s conduct in the performance of the Work, 
incurred costs, losses, or damages on account of Contractor’s conduct in the performance of 
the Work, or liquidated damages that have accrued as a result of Contractor’s failure to 
complete the Work.
14.05
Contractor’s Warranty of Title
A.
Contractor warrants and guarantees that title to all Work, materials, and equipment 
furnished under the Contract will pass to Owner free and clear of (1) all liens and other title 
defects, and (2) all patent, licensing, copyright, or royalty obligations, no later than seven 
days after the time of payment by Owner.
14.06
Substantial Completion
A.
The Contractor shall notify Owner and RPR in writing that the Work is substantially complete 
and request the RPR issue a certificate of substantial completion when Contractor considers 
the Work ready for its intended use. Contractor shall at the same time submit to Owner and 
RPR an initial draft of punch list items to be completed or corrected before final payment.
B.
RPR will make an inspection of the Work with the Owner and Contractor to determine the 
status of completion. If RPR does not consider the Work substantially complete, RPR will 
notify Contractor and Owner in writing giving the reasons therefor.
C.
If RPR considers the Work substantially complete or upon resolution of all reasons for non-
issuance of a certificate identified in 14.06.B, RPR will deliver to Owner a certificate of 
substantial completion which shall fix the date of substantial completion and include a punch 
list of items to be completed or corrected before final payment.
35 of 302

--- page 36 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 17 of 46
14.07
Final Inspection
A.
Upon written notice from Contractor that the entire Work is complete, RPR will promptly 
make a final inspection with Owner and Contractor and will notify Contractor in writing of all 
particulars in which this inspection reveals that the Work, or agreed portion thereof, is 
incomplete or defective. Contractor shall immediately take such measures as are necessary 
to complete such Work or remedy such deficiencies.
14.08
Final Payment
A.
Contractor may make application for final payment after Contractor has satisfactorily 
completed all Work defined in the Contract, including providing all maintenance and 
operating instructions, schedules, guarantees, bonds, certificates or other evidence of 
insurance, certificates of inspection, annotated record documents and other documents.
B.
The final application for payment shall be accompanied (except as previously delivered) by:
1.
All documentation called for in the Contract Documents;
2.
Consent of the surety to final payment;
3.
Satisfactory evidence that all title issues have been resolved such that title to all Work, 
materials, and equipment has passed to Owner free and clear of any liens or other title 
defects, or will so pass upon final payment;
4.
A list of all disputes that Contractor believes are unsettled; and
5.
Complete and legally effective releases or waivers (satisfactory to Owner) of all lien 
rights arising out of the Work, and of liens filed in connection with the Work.
C.
The Work is complete (subject to surviving obligations) when it is ready for final payment as 
established by the RPR’s written recommendation of final payment.
14.09
Waiver of Claims
A.
The making of final payment will not constitute a waiver by Owner of claims or rights against 
Contractor.
B.
The acceptance of final payment by Contractor will constitute a waiver by Contractor of all 
claims and rights against Owner other than those pending matters that have been duly 
submitted.
ARTICLE 15 - SUSPENSION OF WORK AND TERMINATION
15.01
Owner May Suspend Work
A.
At any time and without cause, Owner may suspend the Work or any portion thereof for a 
period of not more than 60 consecutive days by written notice to Contractor and RPR. Such 
notice will fix the date on which Work will be resumed. Contractor shall resume the Work on 
the date so fixed. Contractor shall be entitled to an adjustment in the Contract Price or an 
extension of the Contract Times, or both, directly attributable to any such suspension.
15.02
Owner May Terminate for Cause
A.
Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents or 
other failure to comply with a material term of the Contract Documents will constitute a 
default by Contractor and justify termination for cause.
36 of 302

--- page 37 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 18 of 46
B.
If Contractor defaults in its obligations, then after giving Contractor and any surety ten days 
written notice that Owner is considering a declaration that Contractor is in default and 
termination of the Contract, Owner may proceed to:
1.
Declare Contractor to be in default, and give Contractor and any surety notice that the 
Contract is terminated; and
2.
Enforce the rights available to Owner under any applicable performance bond.
C.
Owner may not proceed with termination of the Contract under Paragraph 15.02.B if 
Contractor within seven days of receipt of notice of intent to terminate begins to correct its 
failure to perform and proceeds diligently to cure such failure.
D.
Subject to the terms and operation of any applicable performance bond, if Owner has 
terminated the Contract for cause, Owner may exclude Contractor from the Site, take 
possession of the Work, incorporate in the Work all materials and equipment stored at the 
Site or for which Owner has paid Contractor but which are stored elsewhere, and complete 
the Work as Owner may deem expedient.
E.
In the case of a termination for cause, if the cost to complete the Work, including related 
claims, costs, losses, and damages, exceeds the unpaid contract balance, Contractor shall pay 
the difference to Owner.
15.03
Owner May Terminate for Convenience
A.
Upon seven days written notice to Contractor, Owner may, without cause and without 
prejudice to any other right or remedy of Owner, terminate the Contract. In such case, 
Contractor shall be paid for, without duplication of any items:
1.
Completed and acceptable Work executed in accordance with the Contract Documents 
prior to the effective date of termination, including fair and reasonable sums for 
overhead and profit on such Work;
2.
Expenses sustained prior to the effective date of termination in performing services and 
furnishing labor, materials, or equipment as required by the Contract Documents in 
connection with uncompleted Work, plus fair and reasonable sums for overhead and 
profit on such expenses; and
3.
Other reasonable expenses directly attributable to termination, including costs incurred 
to prepare a termination for convenience cost proposal.
B.
Contractor shall not be paid on account of loss of anticipated overhead, profits, or revenue, 
or other economic loss arising out of or resulting from such termination.
ARTICLE 16 - CONTRACTOR’S REPRESENTATIONS
16.01
Contractor Representations
A.
Contractor makes the following representations when entering into this Contract:
1.
Contractor has examined and carefully studied the Contract Documents, and any data 
and reference items identified in the Contract Documents.
2.
Contractor has visited the Site, conducted a thorough visual examination of the Site and 
adjacent areas, and become familiar with and is satisfied as to the general, local, and 
Site conditions that may affect cost, progress, and performance of the Work.
37 of 302

--- page 38 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 19 of 46
3.
Contractor is familiar with and is satisfied as to all Laws and Regulations that may affect 
cost, progress, and performance of the Work.
4.
Contractor has considered the information known to Contractor itself; information 
commonly known to contractors doing business in the locality of the Site; information 
and observations obtained from visits to the Site; the Contract Documents; and the Site-
related reports and drawings identified in the Contract Documents, with respect to the 
effect of such information, observations, and documents on:
a.
The cost, progress, and performance of the Work;
b.
The means, methods, techniques, sequences, and procedures of construction to be 
employed by Contractor; and
c.
Contractor’s safety precautions and programs.
5.
Based on the information and observations referred to in the preceding paragraph, 
Contractor agrees that no further examinations, investigations, explorations, tests, 
studies, or data are necessary for the performance of the Work at the Contract Price, 
within the Contract Times, and in accordance with the other terms and conditions of 
the Contract.
6.
Contractor is aware of the general nature of work to be performed by Owner and others 
at the Site that relates to the Work as indicated in the Contract Documents.
7.
Contractor has given RPR written notice of all conflicts, errors, ambiguities, or 
discrepancies that Contractor has discovered in the Contract Documents, and the 
written resolution thereof by RPR is acceptable to Contractor.
8.
The Contract Documents are generally sufficient to indicate and convey understanding 
of all terms and conditions for performance and furnishing of the Work.
9.
Contractor’s entry into this Contract constitutes an incontrovertible representation by 
Contractor that, without exception, all prices in the Contract are premised upon 
performing and furnishing the Work required by the Contract Documents.
ARTICLE 17 - MISCELLANEOUS
17.01
Cumulative Remedies
A.
The duties and obligations imposed by this Contract and the rights and remedies available 
hereunder to the parties hereto are in addition to, and are not to be construed in any way as 
a limitation of, any rights and remedies available to any or all of them which are otherwise 
imposed or available by Laws or Regulations, by special warranty or guarantee, or by other 
provisions of the Contract. The provisions of this paragraph will be as effective as if repeated 
specifically in the Contract Documents in connection with each particular duty, obligation, 
right, and remedy to which they apply.
17.02
Limitation of Damages
A.
Neither Owner, RPR, nor any of their officers, directors, members, partners, employees, 
agents, consultants, or subcontractors, shall be liable to Contractor for any claims, costs, 
losses, or damages sustained by Contractor on or in connection with any other project or 
anticipated project.
38 of 302

--- page 39 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 20 of 46
17.03
No Waiver
A.
A party’s non-enforcement of any provision shall not constitute a waiver of that provision, 
nor shall it affect the enforceability of that provision or of the remainder of this Contract.
17.04
Survival of Obligations
A.
All representations, indemnifications, warranties, and guarantees made in, required by, or 
given in accordance with the Contract, as well as all continuing obligations indicated in the 
Contract, will survive final payment, completion, and acceptance of the Work or termination 
or completion of the Contract or termination of the services of Contractor.
17.05
Contractor’s Certifications
A.
Contractor certifies that it has not engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive 
practices in competing for or in executing the Contract.
17.06
Controlling Law and Venue
A.
This Contract is to be governed by the law of the state of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.  
17.07
Notices
A.
All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person, or transmitted by certified mail, 
postage prepaid.  Notices required to be given to Owner or Contractor shall be addressed as 
appears in the signature block at the end of this Contract.
17.08
No Partnership or Agency
A.
Nothing in this Contract nor in the contract documents shall be deemed to constitute a 
partnership in law between Owner and Contractor, or any subcontractor, to constitute either 
party as an agent of the other for any purpose; or to entitle either party to commit or bind 
the other in any manner unless expressly agreed upon in the contract documents. 
17.09
Severability
A.
If any part or provision of the contract documents is determined by any court to be illegal, 
invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the contract documents shall continue to be 
valid as to its other provisions and the remainder of the affected provision, unless it can be 
concluded from the circumstances that, in the absence of the provisions found to be null and 
void, the parties would not have entered into the contract documents.  The parties shall use 
all reasonable efforts to replace any and all provisions or parts found to be null and void with 
provisions that are valid under the applicable law and come closest to their original intention. 
17.10
Waiver
A.
None of the following shall operate as a waiver of any provision of the contract documents, 
or of any power herein reserved by the Owner, or any right to damages herein provided:  1) 
inspection by the Owner or its authorized agents or representatives; 2) any order or 
certificate for payment, or any payment for, or acceptance of the whole or any party of the 
work by the Owner; 3) an extension of time; or 4) any position taken by the Owner or its 
authorized agents or representatives. 
39 of 302

--- page 40 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 21 of 46
17.11
Warranty
A.
Contractor warrants and guarantees that the materials and equipment provided shall be at 
least of the quality specified and new unless otherwise required or permitted by the contract 
documents and, if no quality is specified, then the materials and equipment shall be of 
commercial grade, suitable for heavy public use in facilities of similar size and complexity,, 
that the work performed hereunder will be free from defects, and that the work will conform 
to the requirements of the contract documents. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Owner and Contractor have signed this Contract.
This Contract will be effective on __________________ (which is the Effective Date of the Contract).
OWNER:
CONTRACTOR:
By:
Matt Fabry
By:
Young Kang
Title:
Public Works Director
Title:
President
Address for giving notices:
Address for giving notices:
330 West 20th Avenue
783 Phillips Drive
San Mateo, CA  94403
City of Industry, CA 91748
License No.:
CA License # 858483
(where applicable)
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Linh Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
40 of 302

--- page 41 ---
EXHIBIT A

SCOPE OF WORK

Contractor's Price Proposal - Summary

Date: March 18, 2024
Re: IQC Master Contract #: CA-R6-GB-101723-ACI

Work Order #: 125766.00

Owner PO #:

Title: San Mateo Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel

Contractor: Angeles Contractor Inc.

Proposal Value: $379,386.64
Accessories $13,283.18
ADA Parking $2,190.99
Asphalt $26,460.31
Bathroom Remodel $4,446.13
BMPs Erosion Controls $14,989.92
Bond Fee $10,154.96
Builder's Risk Policy $7,948.24
Carpenter $3,140.70
Concrete $44,440.22
Corners $115.19
Coving $7.34
Demo $13,346.31
Doors $8,778.56
Earthwork $5,629.74
Electrical $2,101.34
Flooring $12,158.53
Landscaping $1,145.18
Mobilization $24,869.43
Neolith $113,609.13
Paint $1,815.56
Pedestrian Safety $3,737.24
Plumbing $40,808.59
Pluming $845.57
Risk Register $23,000.00
Signage $364.28
Proposal Total $379,386.64

This! total represents the correct total for the proposal. Any discrepancy between line totals,
sub-totals and the proposal total is due to rounding.

The Percentage of NPP on this Proposal: %

Contractor's Price Proposal - Summary Page 1 of 1
3/18/2024

41 of 302


--- page 42 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail

Date: March 18, 2024
Re: IQC Master Contract #: CA-R6-GB-101723-ACI
Work Order #: 125766.00
Owner PO #:
Title: San Mateo Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel
Contractor: Angeles Contractor Inc.
Proposal Value: $379,386.64
Sect. Item Mod. UOM Description Line Total
Labor Equip. Material (Excludes)
Accessories
1 10 28 13 130055 EA Two Roll, Surface Mounted, Stainless Steel Toilet Tissue Dispenser (Bobrick $547.82
Contura B-4288)
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 194.90 * 1.4054 = 847.82
Sheet 3
Accessories Schedule on sheet
2 10 28 13 130126 EA 20 Gallon, Surface Mounted, Stainless Steel Waste Receptacle (Bobrick $1,515.89
B-275)
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 47668 1.4054 = 1,339.85
Demolition 2.00 x 62.63 x 1.4054 = 176.04
Sheet 3
Accessories Schedule on sheet
3 10 28 13 130170 EA 36" Length, 1-1/2" Diameter, Stainless Steel Grab Bar (Bobrick B-6806x36) $408.21
Installat Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 120.18 * 4.4054 = 337.80
Demolition 2.00 x 25.05 x 1.4054 = 70.41
Sheet 3
Accessories Schedule on sheet
4 10 28 13 130172 EA 48" Length, 1-1/2" Diameter, Stainless Steel Grab Bar (Bobrick B-6806x48) $432.86
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 128.95 * 1.4054 = 362.45
Demolition 2.00 x 25.05 x 1.4054 = 70.41
Sheet 3
Accessories Schedule on sheet
5 10 28 13 130251 EA Surface Mounted, Automatic Sensor, White Epoxy Finish Steel Cover, CPC $4,027.20
Technology, Dries Hands In 10 To 12 Seconds, Hand Dryer (American Dryer
CPC9-M)CPC technology kills germs naturally with no chemicals. Electronically
adjustable sound and speed.
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 1,391.38 * 1.4054 ~ 3,910.89
Demolition 2.00 x 41.38 x 1.4054 = 116.31
Sheet 3
Accessories Schedule on sheet
6 10 28 13 130386 EA 24" x 36", Surface Mounted, Fixed-Position Tilt, Stainless Steel Frame Glass $1,367.37
Mirror (Bobrick B-293 2436)
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 455.15 * 1.4054 = 1,279.34
Demolition 2.00 x 31.32 x 1.4054 = 88.03
Sheet 3
Accessories Schedule on sheet
7 22 42 39 000183 EA Electronic Soap Dispenser And Faucet Combination (Sloan Optima $4,983.83
ESD-30880-BDT)
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 1,636.61 * 1.4054 = 4,600.18
Demolition 2.00 x 136.49 x 1.4054 = 383.65
Sheet 3
Accessories Schedule on sheet
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Page 1 of 20
3/18/2024

42 of 302


--- page 43 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..

Work Order Number:  125766.00

Work Order Title: San Mateo Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel
Subtotal for Accessories $13,283.18
ADA Parking
8 10 14 53 110024 EA 9" x 12" Aluminum Engineer Grade Traffic Sign $126.40
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 4497 * 1.4054 ~ 126.40
Ref. sheet 4/7 [C3.0] and 7/7 [C5.0] detail #8-minimum fine & Van accessible sign
9 10 14 53 110030 EA 12" x 18" Aluminum Engineer Grade Traffic Sign $82.27
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 1.00 x 58.54 x 1.4054 * 82.27
Ref. sheet 4/7 [C3.0] and 7/7 [C5.0] detail #8-Handicap symbol sign
10 1014 53 110229 EA 12', 2-3/8" Diameter, Galvanized Steel Tubular Sign Post $249.12
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 400 * 177.26 * 1.4054 * 249.12
Ref. sheet 4/7 [C3.0] and 7/7 [C5.0] detail #8-signage post
11. +10 14 53 110275 EA 2-3/8" Outside Diameter, Double Side Sign Bracket Setincludes 2 double side $263.77
sign post brackets
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 3.00 x 62.56 x 1.4054 = 263.77
Ref. sheet 4/7 [C3.0] and 7/7 [C5.0] detail #8-signage bracket
12 3217 13 190001 EA 6" x 8" x 4' Precast Concrete Wheel Stop With Dowels $95.47
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 100 x 67.93 x 1.4054 ~ 95.47
Ref. sheet 4/7 [C3.0] and 7/7 [C5.0] detail #8-wheelstop
13. 32.17 23 130070 LF Single 4" Wide Solid Line, Painted Pavement Striping For Parking Areas $61.73
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 3600 422. * 1.4054 * 61.73
Ref. sheet 4/7 [C3.0] and 7/7 [C5.0] detail #8-striping ADA stall
14 3217 23 130074 SF Solid Area, Painted Pavement Marking For Parking AreasUse task for lines $818.36
>12" wide, stop bars, transverse lines, diagonal lines, crossing lanes, etc.
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 90.00 * 647 x 1.4054 = 818.36
Ref. sheet 4/7 [C3.0] and 7/7 [C5.0] detail #8-cross hatch striping [5'x18']
15 3217 23 130076 EA 12" High, Letter/Number, Painted Pavement Marking For Parking Areas $97.77
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 9.00 x 773 x 1.4054 = 97.77
Ref. sheet 4/7 [C3.0] and 7/7 [C5.0] detail #8-stencil "NO PARKING"
16 3217 23 130076 0067 MOD For Up To 10, Add $11.89
| Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 9.00 x 0.94 x 1.4054 = 11.89
17 3217 23 130088 EA Handicap Symbol For Van Parking Stalls, Painted Pavement Marking For $78.28

Parking AreasApproximate overall dimensions: 4-1/3' width x 5' height. White
or blue symbol. Excludes striping.

Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 100 55.70 * 1.4054 78.28
Ref. sheet 4/7 [C3.0] and 7/7 [C5.0] detail #8-stencil ADA stall
18 3217 23 130088 0390 MOD For Blue Background With White Symbol And Border, Add $100.56
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 4.00 x 71.55 x 1.4054 = 100.56

Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Page 2 of 20
3/18/2024

43 of 302


--- page 44 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..

Work Order Number: 125766.00
Work Order Title: San Mateo Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel

ADA Parking

19 32 31 13 130010 VLF 12" Diameter Hole, Auger By Machine Fence Post Hole In Soil $89.93
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 3.00 * 21.33 1.4054 = 89.93
Ref. sheet 4/7 [C3.0] and 7/7 [C5.0] detail #8-ADA parking post footing
20 32 31 13 130027 VLF 12" Diameter, Concrete Fill For Post Hole $115.44
, Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 3.00 x 27.38 «© 1.4054 ~ 115.44

Ref. sheet 4/7 [C3.0] and 7/7 [C5.0] detail #8-ADA parking post footing

Subtotal for ADA Parking $2,190.99
Asphalt
21 02 41 13 130040 SF >3" To 6" By Hand, Break-up And Remove Bituminous Paving $5,991.94
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 851.00 x 501 x 1.4054 = 5,991.94

The removal of the Asphalt

22 02 41 19 130071 EA Saw Cut Minimum ChargeFor projects where the total saw cutting charge is $1,478.87
less than the minimum charge, use this task exclusively. This task should not
be used in conjunction with any other tasks in this section.

, Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 1.00 * 4,052.28 * 1.4054 = 1,478.87
Saw Cut minium for the new Asphalt.
23 «32:01 13 610002 EA Asphalt Seal Coating Minimum ChargeFor projects where the total charges are $1,240.25

less than the minimum set-up charge, use this task exclusively. This task
should not be used in conjunction with any other tasks in this section.

. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 100 88249 Xx 1.4054 = 1,240.25
Asphalt pavement repair seal coat
24 3201 16 710008 SY >3" To 6" Depth, Limited Cold Milling Of Asphalt $5,979.20
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 113.00 * 37.65 Xx 1.4054 = 5,979.20
Sheet 3/7 [C2.0] keynote #3-remove (E) asphalt [1010 SF + 9 = 113 SY]
25 3201 17 630022 EA Asphalt Placement For Small Repair Areas, Hot Mix Modified, Up To 3 TonsFor $3,113.83

small areas of existing asphalt is removed to allow work such as trenching
across or in a road, excavating a drainage structure, uncovering a utility line,
ete.

Quantity Unit Price Factor Total

Installation 4.00 * 2,215.62 * 1.4054 = 3,113.83

Sheet 4/7 [C3.0] keynote #11 and detail #2/C5.0-AC pavement [854 SF x 3"/12 + 27 = 8 CY x 2.025 Ton/CY =
16 Tons] CTC task for 1st 3 Tons

26 3201 17 630023 TON Asphalt Placement For Small Repair Areas, Hot Mix ModifiedFor each ton over $5,239.71
3 to 100 tons. For small areas of existing asphalt is removed to allow work
such as trenching across or in a road, excavating a drainage structure,
uncovering a utility line, etc.
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total

Installation 13.00 x 286.79 x 1.4054 ~ 5,239.71

Sheet 4/7 [C3.0] keynote #11 and detail #2/C5.0-AC pavement [854 SF x 3"/12 + 27 = 8 CY x 2.025 Ton/CY =
16 Tons] CTC task for remainder 16 total Tons less 1st 3 Tons = 13 Tons

27 33:05 81 000029 EA 12" Square Aluminum Manhole Cover With Frame $3,340.69
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 1,188.52 * 1.4054 = 3,340.69

SUBDRAINS: Area drains.

Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Page 3 of 20
3/18/2024

44 of 302


--- page 45 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..

Work Order Number: 125766.00

Work Order Title: San Mateo Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel
Asphalt
28 3305 97 230006 CLF 3" Detectable Utility Warning Tape $75.82
instaltals Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
nstallation 5.00 * 10.79 * 4.4054 = 75.82

Used throughout the course of the construction.

Subtotal for Asphalt $26,460.31

Bathroom Remodel

29 01 31 33 000004 EA Cement Mason Minimum ChargeThis task should not be used in conjunction $1,043.82
with any other tasks utilizing this labor trade, unless approved by owner. Task
quantity is 1, unless approved by owner.
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total

Installation 4.00 * 74272 4.4054 = 1,043.82

One (1) site visit to perform layout and coordinate with the plumber, and second (2) site visit to install cmu
block for plumbing chase in new masonry block wall, allow and wait for plumber install supply line and drain
line, and return to the site to complete the wall.

30 = §©02 41 13 130043 SF >3" To 6" By Hand, Break-up And Remove Concrete Paving $903.50
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 98.00 * 656 (X 4.4054 = 903.50

Demolition of concrete.

31 02 41 19 130071 EA Saw Cut Minimum ChargeFor projects where the total saw cutting charge is $1,478.87
less than the minimum charge, use this task exclusively. This task should not
be used in conjunction with any other tasks in this section.

; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 100 * 1,052.28 1.4054 = 1,478.87
saw Cut Miniun for new layout proposed.
32 03 21 11 000120 LF #4, Grade 40, Slab On Grade, Steel Reinforcement Bar $57.34
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 40.00 x 102 * 1.4054 ~ 57.34
New rebar 18" OC
33° 03 21 11 000120 0177 MOD For Up To 100, Add $33.45
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 35.00 x 0.68 x 1.4054 ~ 33.45
34 03 30 53 000009 CF Hand Mix And Place ConcreteFor use where conventional equipment access is $753.10

limited or when directed by the owner.
Includes local aggregate, sand, bagged cement ( Type |) and water.

Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 2600 * 2061 * 1.4054 = 753.10
Bathroom location
35 03 30 53 000009 0026 MOD For Up To 25 CF, Add $80.16
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 23.00 * 248 x 1.4054 = 80.16
36 03 30 53 000009 0029 MOD For 3,500 PSI Concrete, Add $13.25
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 23.00 * 041 1.4054 ~ 13.25
37 =03 35 13 000006 SF Steel Trowel, Concrete Floor Finish $82.64
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 3500 x 168 x 1.4054 = 82.64

Finish the cement at the repour of the cement for the pour back and relocation of new layout.

Subtotal for Bathroom Remodel $4,446.13

BMPs Erosion Controls

Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Page 4 of 20
3/18/2024

45 of 302


--- page 46 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..

Work Order Number: 125766.00

Work Order Title: San Mateo Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel

BMPs Erosion Controls

38 01 55 23 000002 EA Temporary Stabilized Construction Entrance Assemblylncludes excavation of $2,461.46
30' x 14' x 6" deep pit, filter fabric at base and sides, filled with 3" rock, and
compaction.
| Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 100 x 4,751.43 X 1.4054 = 2,461.46
Sheet 5/7 [C4.0] detail #5 & sheet 6/7 [C4.1] BMPs requirements
39 01 55 23 000004 SF >4" To 6" Rock Temporary Stabilized Construction Entrance Assemblyincludes $5,609.22
up to 12" excavation of pit, hauling and disposal of soil, filter fabric at base and
sides, filled with rock, and compaction.
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 851.00 * 469 1.4054 = 5,609.22
Sheet 5/7 [C4.0] details & sheet 6/7 [C4.1] BMPs requirements
40 0174 19 000021 MO Rampless Concrete Washout BinIncludes delivery. $828.48
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 400 * 589.50 1.4054 * 828.48
Sheet 5/7 [C4.0] detail #4 & sheet 6/7 [C4.1] BMPs requirements
41 0174 19 000023 EA Interim Vacuum Service, Concrete Washout BinIncludes vacuum and recycle $853.70
excess clear liquid from the unfilled bin to allow additional space for washout
material.
installati Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
nstalation 100 * 607.44 x 1.4054 * 853.70
Sheet 5/7 [C4.0] detail #4 & sheet 6/7 [C4.1] BMPs requirements
42 0174 19 000024 EA Vacuum, Pickup, Swap And Dump, Concrete Washout BinIncludes vacuum the $1,849.68
liquid from the full bin and pick up the bin, and recycle all material. An empty
bin will be left at the site if the project is not completed.
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 100 * 1,316.12 * 1.4054 1,849.68
Sheet 5/7 [C4.0] detail #4 & sheet 6/7 [C4.1] BMPs requirements
43 31 25 14 230012 BAG 50 LB Capacity Gravel Bag With Gravel $1,218.48
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 75.00 11.56 x 1.4054 1,218.48
Sheet 5/7 [C4.0] details & sheet 6/7 [C4.1] BMPs requirements
44 31 25 14 260033 LF 8" Diameter Fiber Roll, (Sterile Straw Filled Rolls, With Natural Fiber $1,869.18
Wrapping), CALTRANS Type 1
lat Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200.00 * 665 1.4054 1,869.18
Sheet 5/7 [C4.0] detail #1 & 3 & sheet 6/7 [C4.1] BMPs requirements
45 31 25 14 260043 EA 2'x4'x3' Inlet Protection Sediment Bag $299.72
| Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 106.63 * 1.4054 299.72
Sheet 5/7 [C4.0] detail #1 & 2 & sheet 6/7 [C4.1] BMPs requirements
Subtotal for BMPs Erosion Controls $14,989.92
Bond Fee
46 01 22 16 000002 EA Reimbursable FeesReimbursable Fees will be paid to the contractor for eligible $10,154.96
costs as directed by Owner. Insert the appropriate quantity to adjust the base
cost to the actual Reimbursable Fee. If there are multiple Reimbursable Fees,
list each one separately and add a comment in the "note" block to identify the
Reimbursable Fee (e.g. sidewalk closure, road cut, various permits, extended
warranty, expedited shipping costs, etc.). A copy of each receipt, invoice, or
proof of payment shall be submitted with the Price Proposal.
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 7,225.67 1.00 * 1.4054 ~ 10,154.96
Bond fees: calculated at 2% of total amount for proposal value of $361,283.44
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Page 5 of 20
3/18/2024

46 of 302


--- page 47 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..

Work Order Number:  125766.00
Work Order Title: San Mateo Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel

Subtotal for Bond Fee $10,154.96

Builder's Risk Polic’

47 01 22 16 000002 EA Reimbursable FeesReimbursable Fees will be paid to the contractor for eligible $7,948.24

costs as directed by Owner. Insert the appropriate quantity to adjust the base

cost to the actual Reimbursable Fee. If there are multiple Reimbursable Fees,

list each one separately and add a comment in the "note" block to identify the

Reimbursable Fee (e.g. sidewalk closure, road cut, various permits, extended

warranty, expedited shipping costs, etc.). A copy of each receipt, invoice, or

proof of payment shall be submitted with the Price Proposal.

Quantity Unit Price Factor Total

7,225.67 * 1.00 * 1.1000 ~ 7,948.24
Builder's Risk Insurance at 2% of the proposal value of $361,283.44

Installation

Subtotal for Builder's Risk Policy $7,948.24

Carpenter

48 01 31 33 000002 EA Carpenter Minimum ChargeThis task should not be used in conjunction with $1,570.35
any other tasks utilizing this labor trade, unless approved by owner. Task
quantity is 1, unless approved by owner.

Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 1.00 x 1,117.37 x 1.4054 ~ 1,570.35
Exterior wood repair/replacement of dry rot damaged fascia board
49 01 31 33 000002 EA Carpenter Minimum ChargeThis task should not be used in conjunction with $1,570.35

any other tasks utilizing this labor trade, unless approved by owner. Task
quantity is 1, unless approved by owner.
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total

Installation 4.00 x 4,117.37. * 1.4054 = 1,870.35

Install custom wall backing and bracing for new concrete ramp sink provided by plumber

Subtotal for Carpenter $3,140.70
Concrete
50 01 22 23 000132 DAY 185 CFM Diesel Powered Portable Air Compressor $1,882.04
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 500 x 26783 * 1.4054 * 1,882.04
Concrete at Demolition: Delivery of compressor.
51 +01 31 33 000004 EA Cement Mason Minimum ChargeThis task should not be used in conjunction $2,087.64

with any other tasks utilizing this labor trade, unless approved by owner. Task
quantity is 1, unless approved by owner.
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total

Installation 200 * 742.72 * 1.4054 = 2,087.64

One (1) site visit to perform layout and coordinate with the plumber, and second (2) site visit to install cmu
block for plumbing chase in new masonry block wall, allow and wait for plumber install supply line and drain
line, and return to the site to complete the wall.

52 0171 13 000002 EA First 25 Miles, Equipment Delivery, Pickup, Mobilization And Demobilization $626.25
Using A Rollback Flatbed TruckIncludes loading, tie-down of equipment,
delivery of equipment, off loading on site, rigging, dismantling, loading for
return and transporting away. For equipment such as trenchers, skid-steer
loaders (bobcats), industrial warehouse forklifts, sweepers, scissor platform
lifts, telescoping and articulating boom man lifts with up to 40° boom lengths,
etc.

Quantity Unit Price Factor Total

Installation 4.00 * 44560 * 1.4054 ~ 626.25

Concrete: Delivery of jackhammer and compressor

Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Page 6 of 20
3/18/2024

47 of 302


--- page 48 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..

Work Order Number:  125766.00
Work Order Title: San Mateo Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel
Concrete
53 02 41 13 130043 SF >3" To 6" By Hand, Break-up And Remove Concrete Paving $5,347.27
lati Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 580.00 * 656 (x 1.4054 ~ 5,347.27
New proposed sidewalk.
* Section 1) 70 Lx 6 W = 420 sqft.
* Section 2) 12 L+ 6 W =72 sqft.
* Section 3) 25 L + 6 W = 150 saft.
54 02 41 19 130039 CF Exterior Brick, Concrete Block Or Composite Removal $385.36
| Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 20.00 * 1371 x 1.4054 = 385.36
New cmu concrete block wall at drinking fountain.
55 02 41 19 130071 EA Saw Cut Minimum ChargeFor projects where the total saw cutting charge is $1,478.87
less than the minimum charge, use this task exclusively. This task should not
be used in conjunction with any other tasks in this section.
eleel Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
nstaliation 100 * 1,052.28 * 1.4054 = 1,478.87
Sawcut sidewalk prior to removal
56 03 11 13 000005 SF Mat Foundation Wood Formwork $9,797.89
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 580.00 * 1202 * 1.4054 = 9,797.89
Concrete Forms for new concrete sidealk per Site Plan Sheet Plan 3
57 +03 15 16 000006 LF 1/2" x 1" Polyurethane Expansion Joint, Poured, 2 Parts $349.10
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 60.00 x 414 x 1.4054 = 349.10
Expansion joint between the concrete pad and the sidewalk and structure of building.
58 03 21 11 000251 EA Dowels Or Hairpin, 1/2" x 30" Length, Drilled And Epoxy In Concrete, 6" $1,469.77
Embedment
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 35.00 x 29.88 x 1.4054 = 1,469.77
MASONRY WALL: Install dowels into concrete slab for new rebar tie-ins. 4 dowels at 18" O.C.
59 03 31 13 000027 cy Concrete Pump, Place 3,000 PSI Concrete Mat FoundationExcludes pumping $1,991.81
equipment.
| Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 638 x 222.14 X 1.4054 = 1,991.81
Flatwork at Drinking Fountain Area:
580 SF.
580 SF x .25 = 145 CF.
TOTAL
145 CF/27 =5.38 CY.
5.38 CY + 1 CY short load = Total 6.38 CY.
60 03 31 13 000027 0029 MOD For 3,500 PSI Concrete, Add $0.00
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 0.00 =X 1051 * 1.4054 = 0.00
61 03 31 13 000027 0040 MOD For Up To 20, Add $45.78
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 6.80 x 479 x 1.4054 = 45.78
62 03 31 13 000087 cY Delivery Fee For Small Concrete Purchases (Short Load) Per CY For Each CY $273.97
Less Than 9 CYThe task quantity is 9 minus the number of CY's delivered. For
example, the delivery fee for 2CY's is: (9-2) = 7.
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 6.00 x 32.49 x 1.4054 = 273.97
Shortload
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Page 7 of 20
3/18/2024

48 of 302


--- page 49 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..

Work Order Number: 125766.00
Work Order Title: San Mateo Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel
Concrete
63 03 35 13 000004 SF Broom, Concrete Floor Finish $1,043.37
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 580.00 * 128 1.4054 * 1,043.37
Broom finish for the new sidwalk proposed.
64 03 35 13 000004 0052 MOD For >250 To 500, Add $224.86
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 500.00 * 032 * 1.4054 = 224.86
65 31 23 16 130007 CY Excavation For Trenching By Hand In Soillncludes stockpiling excess materials $352.92
and trimming sides and bottom of trench.
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 125.56 * 1.4054 * 352.92
See notes for details. Excavation for the exposing sewer lines.
66 3216 13 130010 LF 6" x 24" Cast In Place Concrete Curb $3,170.58
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 50.00 * 3281 * 1.4054 * 2,305.56
Demolition 50.00 x 12.31 x 1.4054 = 865.02
Ref. sheet 7/7 [C5.0] detail #4 - Vertical curb 8" x 16" [46 LF] and detail #6- 12" thick flush curb [5 LF] [Closest
CTC task for this size of curb since CTC do not have 8" and 12" thick curb]
67 3216 13 130010 0073 MOD For >20 To 50, Add $754.70
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 50.00 1074 x 1.4054 * 754.70
68 32 16 13 130022 LF 6" x 30" Cast In Place Concrete Gutter With 6" Curb And Face - Straight $2,028.55
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 20.00 * 52.23 x 1.4054 = 1,468.08
Demolition 20.00 x 19.94 x 1.4054 = 560.47
Ref. sheet 7/7 [C5.0] detail #4 - Vertical curb and gutter (21 LF]
69 3216 13 130022 0077 MOD For Up To 20, Add $993.06
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 20.00 * 35.33 * 1.4054 * 993.06
70 32 16 23 000002 SF 4" Cast In Place Concrete Sidewalk $8,061.66
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 580.00 * 989 * 1.4054 ~ 8,061.66
Per SOW and Plans new proposed sidewalk.
71 32 16 23 000017 LF For Hand Trowel Finish At Sidewalk Edges (Picture Frame) $326.31
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 94.00 x 247 x 4.4054 = 326.31
Ref. Sheet 3
72 32.17 26 000002 SF Surface Applied VPC Truncated Dome Detectable Warning Surfacelncludes $1,480.31
adhesive, fasteners and sealant at perimeter. Also raised strips or directional
bars. All colors.
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 15.00 x 70.22 x 4.4054 = 1,480.31
OPTION FOR CONCRETE SIDEWALK: Truncated Domes, VERIFY QTY [C3.0 Keynote #12 = 5'x3']
73 32 31 13 13.0755 LF Removal And Reinstallation Of Chain Link Fence Up To 5' Height $268.15
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 10.00 * 19.08 * 1.4054 = 268.15
Removal of fencing.
Subtotal for Concrete $44,440.22
Corners
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Page 8 of 20
3/18/2024

49 of 302


--- page 50 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..

Work Order Number: 125766.00

Work Order Title: San Mateo Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel
Corners
74 09 34 00 000030 EA Corners, 0.008" Polyethylene Membrane With Polypropylene Fleece $115.19

Laminated On Both Sides, Bonded Waterproof Corner (Schluter®
KERDI-Kereck-F)
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total

Installation 4.00 x 20.49 x 1.4054 ~ 115.19

Waterproofing at the four inside wall corners.

Subtotal for Corners $115.19
Coving
75 09 34 00 000027 LF 5" Wide, 0.008" Polyethylene Membrane With Polypropylene Fleece Laminated $7.34
On Both Sides, Bonded Waterproof Strip Membrane (Schluter® KERDI
100/200/5M)
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 100 * 522 * 1.4054 ~ 7.34

Install on top of wall sheathing for water barrier behind new epoxy flooring materials

Subtotal for Coving $7.34
Demo
76 01 22 20 000023 HR LaborerFor tasks not included in the Construction Task Catalog® and as $9,343.10
directed by owner only.
instalal Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
nstaliation 80.00 * 83.10 x 1.4054 * 9,343.10

Demolition of interior restroom finishes to bare studs in walls, and stand by time for carpenters, neolith
installers subcontractor, and electricians. (1 laborer - 40 hours x 2 weeks)

77 ~=01 74 19 000014 EA 20 CY Dumpster (3 Ton) "Construction Debris"Includes delivery of dumpster, $962.70
rental cost, pick-up cost, hauling, and disposal fee. Non-hazardous material.
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 1400 x 685.00 x 1.4054 = 962.70
One (1) for disposal of demolition debris and one (1) for construction debris generator during construction
work
78 0174 19 000017 EA 10 CY Low-Boy Dumpster "Concrete Or Asphalt Only"Includes delivery of $3,013.95
dumpster, rental cost, pick-up cost, hauling, and disposal fee. Concrete or
asphalt only.
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 300 * 71485 x 1.4054 = 3,013.95

Sheet 3/7 [C2.0] - bin for disposal of demolish asphalt and concrete pavement - [Asphalt = 1010 SF x 3/12" +
27 = 10 CY x 1.25 bulk factor = 12.5 CY + PCC pavement = 360 SF x 5"/12 + 27 = 6 CY x 1.40 bulk factor =
8.4 CY, total 21 CY or 3 loads of 10 CY bin

79 02 84 16 000006 EA Recycle TSCA-Exempt Polychlorinated Biphenyl (PCB) Ballast Removed From $26.56
Up To 4' Length Fixtures
| Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 x 9.45 x 4.4054 7 26.56

Remove existing ballast from 2'x4' fixtures for retrofitting with LED's

Subtotal for Demo $13,346.31
Doors
80 01 31 33 000002 EA Carpenter Minimum ChargeThis task should not be used in conjunction with $1,570.35

any other tasks utilizing this labor trade, unless approved by owner. Task
quantity is 1, unless approved by owner.
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total

Installation 1.00 x 4,117.37 x 1.4054 = 1,570.35

Exterior wood repair/replacement around the new replaced doors.

Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Page 9 of 20
3/18/2024

50 of 302


--- page 51 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..

Work Order Number:  125766.00
Work Order Title: San Mateo Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel
Doors
81 08 71 11 000021 PR 5" x 4" Standard Duty, Half Surface, Ball Bearing, Brass/Bronze, Satin Chrome $486.80
Finish Hinge
lati Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
nstallation 200 * 173.19 * 1.4054 * 486.80
Door hardware
82 08 71 11 000618 EA Heavy Duty, Surface Mounted, Dark Bronze Finish, Overhead Door $2,197.79
Holder/Stop (Glynn Johnson 90)
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 750.58 1.4054 ~ 2,100.73
Demolition 2.00 x 31.33 x 1.4054 = 88.06
Door Harware
83 0871 11 000790 EA Latch Protector $142.62
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 2.00 x 38.21 x 4.4054 = 107.40
Demolition 2.00 x 12.53 x 1.4054 = 35.22
Specified Hardware: Latch Protector 320-RKW 630 Rockwood
84 0871 11 002094 EA 8" x 16", Satin Finish, Stainless Steel Push Plate Door Hardware $222.36
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 71.28 1.4054 ~ 200.35
Demolition 2.00 x 7.83 x 1.4054 = 22.01
Door Hardware
85 0871 11 002270 EA Surface Mounted Heavy Duty Door Closer (LCN 4010/4020/4110 Series) $1,778.20
| Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 596.29 * 1.4054 = 1,676.05
Demolition 2.00 x 36.34 x 1.4054 = 102.14
Specified Door Hardware
86 08 71 11 002322 EA Extra Heavy Duty Cylindrical, F84 Classroom LocksetSatin chrome plated $1,720.15
US26D (BHMA 626) - BHMA 156.2-1989, Grade 1(Corbin Russwin CL 3300).
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 580.65  * 1.4054 * 1,632.09
Demolition 2.00 x 31.33 x 1.4054 = 88.06
Specified door hardware: Lockset
87 0871 11 002465 EA Single Cylinder Deadbolt, Key One Side, Knob One SideCylindrical, ANSI $660.29
Grade 1, interchangeable core, bright brass or satin chromium finish.
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 203.58 * 1.4054 = 572.22
Demolition 2.00 x 31.33 x 1.4054 = 88.06
Specified door hardware: Schlage B662P Double Cylinder Deadbolt Lock Grade 1.
Subtotal for Doors $8,778.56
Earthwork
88 3105 13 000002 CY Bank Run/Fill Sand $50.14
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 100 * 35.68 * 1.4054 = 50.14
Backfill around new drain pipe.
89 31 23 16 130011 CY Backfilling or Placing Subbase for Trenches with Imported or Stockpiled $49.02
Materials by Hand
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 100 x 34.88 (x 1.4054 ~ 49.02

SUBDRAINS: Backfilling for new drain lines.

Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail

Page 10 of 20
3/18/2024

51 of 302


--- page 52 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..

Work Order Number:  125766.00

Work Order Title: San Mateo Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel
Earthwork
90 31 23 16 130014 CY Compaction of Fill or Subbase for Trenches by Hand $331.81
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 6.00 x 39.35 x 4.4054 = 331.81
SUBDRAINS: Compact backfill for subdrain trench
91 31 24 13 000020 SY Finish Grade Roadway, Parking Areas, Landscaping And Embankments By $138.12
Machine
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 94.50 x 1.04 x 1.4054 = 138.12
Finish Grade
92 31 24 13 000021 LF Finish Grade For Curb $83.86
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 51.00 x 147 x 1.4054 = 83.86
Ref. sheet 7/7 [C5.0] detail #4 - grading for vertical curb 8" x 16" [46 LF] and detail #6- 12" thick flush curb [5
LF]
93 31 24 13 000022 LF Finish Grade For Curb And Gutter $42.20
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 21.00 x 1.43 x 1.4054 = 42.20
Ref. sheet 7/7 [C5.0] detail #4 - grading for vertical curb and gutter [21 LF]
94 3211 16 160004 CY Class II Graded Crushed Aggregate Roadway Base Course $3,121.63
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 2100 * 105.77. * 1.4054 ~ 3,121.63
Sheet 4/7 [C3.0] keynote #11 and detail #2/C5.0-Class 2 Aggregate base [854 SF x 8"/12 + 27 = 21 CY]
95 32 14 40 000003 SF 1" Thick, >54 to 108 SI Slate Paverincludes 6" x 12", 9" x 9", 6" x 18", 9" x 12" $1,083.56
and other similar size pavers.
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 100.00 * 5.14 x 1.4054 ~ 722.38
Demolition 100.00 x 2.57 x 1.4054 = 361.19
Temporary remove and salvage (E) pavers impacted by new work and reinstall later approx. 100 SF [CTC task
exclude material unit cost for this scope, re-use existing]
96 3214 40 000003 0113 MOD For Up To 100, Add $729.40
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 100.00 * 5.19 x 1.4054 * 729.40
Subtotal for Earthwork $5,629.74
Electrical
97 2601 20 910002 EA Lock Out/Tag Out Local DisconnectExcludes tag or padlock See CSI section $837.34
26 01 20 91-0004 for padlock, 26 01 20 91-0005 for tag(s).
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 10.00 * 50.58 x 1.4054 = 837.34
Lock out tags to run all new spec electrical
98 2601 20 910004 EA Lock Out Padlock Devicelncludes the installation and removal of pad lock $46.52
when required
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 2.00 x 16.55 x 1.4054 = 46.52
lock at pad for safety lock out.
99 2605 29 000167 EA 1/2", One Hole Steel Conduit Strap $204.13
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 25.00 x 581 x 1.4054 = 204.13

Electrical Mise

Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail

Page 11 of 20
3/18/2024

52 of 302


--- page 53 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..

Work Order Number: 125766.00

Work Order Title: San Mateo Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel
Electrical
100 2605 33 131503 EA 1/2" Schedule 40 Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) Conduit 90 Degree ElbowSee CSI $153.64
section 26 05 33 13-2329 for conduit field bending.
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 400 * 27.33 =X 1.4054 ~ 153.64
Electrical Misc
101 26 05 33 131516 EA 1/2" Schedule 40 Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) Conduit 45 Degree ElbowSee CSI $153.64
section 26 05 33 13-2329 for conduit field bending.
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 400 * 27.33 1.4054 = 183.64
Electrical Misc
102 2605 53 000021 EA Label Both Ends Of One 4 Pair Cable $91.46
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 x 32.54 x 1.4054 = 91.46
Electrical
103 2609 23 000167 EA Mount And Wire To Control Single Fixture $512.86
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 182.46 X 1.4054 * 512.86
Electrical
104 26 51 33 000056 LF For Each Additional LF Of Interior Lighting Wire Whip, AddWire whips are $101.75

included with interior lighting fixtures, where necessary, up to six feet in length.
Use this task for additional required whip length. For example, if the fixture
requires a 15' wire whip then use 9 LF of this task to reach required length.

Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 40.00 * 181 * 1.4054 ~ 101.75
Electrical Mise
Subtotal for Electrical $2,101.34
Flooring
105 01 22 23 000680 DAY 10 KW, 18 HP Gas Powered Generator SetFuel consumption: 100% load - 1.5 $151.61
gallons per hour
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 1.00 * 107.88 =X 1.4054 = 151.61
Epoxy flooring subcontractor will need 470v to operate equipment.
106 0171 13 000002 EA First 25 Miles, Equipment Delivery, Pickup, Mobilization And Demobilization $626.25

Using A Rollback Flatbed TruckIncludes loading, tie-down of equipment,
delivery of equipment, off loading on site, rigging, dismantling, loading for
return and transporting away. For equipment such as trenchers, skid-steer
loaders (bobcats), industrial warehouse forklifts, sweepers, scissor platform
lifts, telescoping and articulating boom maan lifts with up to 40' boom lengths,

etc.
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 1.00 x 445.60 x 1.4054 = 626.25
FLOORING: Delivery of pressure washer for flooring subcontractor
107 03 15 13 130002 LF 3/16" Thick x 4" Wide Ribbed Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) Waterstop $943.11
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 58.00 1.57 x 1.4054 * 943.11
Install waterstop inside the flooring perimeter at the base of the restroom walls prior to installing the epoxy
flooring.
108 03 35 43 000002 SF Mechanically Grind Concrete Floor With 40 Grit Metal Bonded Diamond $257.19
Wheels
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 100.00 * 183 * 1.4054 = 257.19

FLOORING: Surface Preparation for new epoxy flooring

Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Page 12 of 20
3/18/2024

53 of 302


--- page 54 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..

Work Order Number: 125766.00
Work Order Title: San Mateo Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel

Flooring

109 03 35 83 000006 SF Bush Hammer Cured Concrete, New Concrete Wall Finishes $1,131.35
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 100.00 * 8.05 1.4054 ~ 1,131.35
FLOORING: Bush hammer to scarify concrete floor to prepare for epoxy flooring, 100 sqft
110 03 54 16 000008 SF 1" Thick Self Leveling Cementitious Underlayment For Floorsincluding Surface $1,620.43
Preparation
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 100.00 * 11.53 * 1.4054 = 1,620.43
Self Leveling Prepperation
111. 06 16 33 000013 SF 5/8" Interior BC Plywood Wall SheathingApplied to wall studs. $4.51
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 1.00 x 321 x 1.4054 = 4.51
Backing for epoxy floor coving.
112 06 16 33 000013 SF 5/8" Interior BC Plywood Wall SheathingApplied to wall studs. $248.12
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 55.00 321 * 1.4054 = 248.12
Backing for epoxy floor coving
113, 09 67 16 000003 SF Epoxy Marble Chip Floor, Topping 3/16" Thick, Heavy Duty Epoxylncludes $2,651.99
primer, 3/16" marble chip coat and top seal coat.
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 100.00 * 1887 * 1.4054 = 2,651.99
Epoxy Flooring in restroom.
114 09 67 16 000003 0159 MOD For Skid Resistant Abrasive Sand Finish, Add $14.05
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 100.00 * 0.10 1.4054 = 14.05
115 09 67 16 000003 0160 MOD For Skid Resistant, Orange Peel Texture, Non-Abrasive Topping, Add $14.05
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 100.00 * 0.10 1.4054 = 14.05
116 09 67 23 000009 SF 3/8" Chemical Resistant (10,000 To 12,000 PSI) Epoxy Flooring Trowel Applied $3,724.31
Mortar Compoundincludes primer, two 3/16" slurry coats and top seal coats
(color).
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 100.00 * 26.50 * 1.4054 ~ 3,724.31

Restroom is 8.5'x6.5' = 55.25 SF of Floor Space.

* Two 3/16” coats = 3/8” thickness covering 55.25 SF.

+ Estimated 30 LF of interior walls, cove up w wall 3”.

* 3” of coving is estimated at 8 SF.

+ 55.25 SF + 8 SF = 63 SF.

+ Estimated an additional 12 SF per room of mortar compound for sloping to meet ADA requirements , 12

117 09 67 23 000009 0161 MOD For Up To 500, Add $771.56
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 400.00 * 549 Xx 1.4054 = 771.56
Subtotal for Flooring $12,158.53

Landscaping
118 01 31 33 000011 EA Landscape Maintenance Worker Minimum ChargeThis task should not be used $1,145.18
in conjunction with any other tasks utilizing this labor trade, unless approved by
owner. Task quantity is 1, unless approved by owner.
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total

Installation 1.00 x 814.84 x 4.4054 ~ 1,145.18

One landscaper at the end of the job for the landscaping portion. Restore ladscaping to its original form.

Subtotal for Landscaping $1,145.18

Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Page 13 of 20
3/18/2024

54 of 302


--- page 55 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..

Work Order Number: 125766.00
Work Order Title: San Mateo Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel

Mobilization

119 01 52 13 000030 MO 8' x 8' x 10° Storage Container $709.31
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 252.35 * 1.4054 ~ 709.31
Two months of storage.
120 01 52 19 000003 MO Portable Chemical Toilet $843.24
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 300 * 200.00 * 1.4054 ~ 843.24
Required for the duration of the job length.
121. 01 52 19 000003 0005 MOD For Each Additional Servicing Per Unit Per Week, Add $140.54
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 400 * 25.00 * 1.4054 = 140.54
122 0152 19 000003 0006 MOD For Each Delivery And Set-up, Add $70.27
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 100 * 50.00 * 1.4054 ~ 70.27
123 0152 19 000007 MO Two Station Portable Handwash $684.80
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 3.00 * 16242 * 1.4054 = 684.80
Required for the duration of the job length.
124 0152 19 000007 0006 MOD For Each Delivery And Set-up, Add $140.54
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 x 50.00 * 1.4054 = 140.54
125 01 55 26 000021 CLF 3", 4 Mil Polyethylene Printed Barricade Tape, Non-Fluorescent $57.12
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 400 * 10.16 * 1.4054 = 57.12
Traffic control
126 01 55 26 000034 MO 28" Cone With Reflective Collar $159.79
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 1500 * 758 x 1.4054 = 159.79
Traffic control
127 01 55 26 000050 DAY Type Ill Barricade, Up To 5' Wide With Three Reflective Rails $77.07
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 1200 * 457. Xx 1.4054 = 77.07
Traffic control
128 01 56 16 000084 SF 3/4" Thick, Plywood For Temporary Floor Protection $1,433.51
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 500.00 * 204 x 1.4054 = 1,433.51
Protection for parking area as needed. The perimiter that can be reused as locations of work are being
mobilized.
129 01 56 26 000007 LF Temporary 10' High Chain Link Fence And Posts, Up To 6 Months $5,260.76
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 175.00 * 21.39 1.4054 * 5,260.76
Temp Fencing will be used to enclosed the perimeter of the job site.
130 01 56 26 000007 0070 MOD For >500, Deduct -$892.43
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 250.00 * 254 Xx 1.4054 = 892.43
131 01 56 26 000007 0074 MOD For Each LF Shade Cloth, Add $1,668.91
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 250.00 * 475 x 1.4054 = 1,668.91

Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail

Page 14 of 20
3/18/2024

55 of 302


--- page 56 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..

Work Order Number: 125766.00

Work Order Title: San Mateo Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel
Mobilization
132 01 56 26 000034 EA 10' Wide, 6' High, Temporary Chain Link Fence Gate, Up To 6 Months $1,306.32
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 46475 * 1.4054 ~ 1,306.32
Will have two gates installed at opposite sites of the fencing.
133 01 56 26 000034 0082 MOD For Each LF Shade Cloth, Add $79.67
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 100 * 56.69 Xx 1.4054 * 79.67
134 01 56 26 000158 BAG Temporary Chain Link Fence Panels (Portable) SandbagIncludes placement $680.92
and removal.
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 75.00 646 x 1.4054 * 680.92
Snadbags to be place at the fencing.
135 0171 13 000004 EA First 25 Miles, Equipment Delivery, Pickup, Mobilization And Demobilization $12,449.09

Using A Tractor Trailer With Up To 53' BedIncludes loading, tie-down of
equipment, delivery of equipment, off loading on site, rigging, dismantling,
loading for return and transporting away. For equipment such as bulldozers,
motor scrapers, hydraulic excavators, gradalls, road graders, loader-backhoes,
heavy duty construction loaders, tractors, pavers, rollers, bridge finishers,
straight mast construction forklifts, telescoping boom rough terrain construction
forklifts, telescoping and articulating boom man lifts with >40' boom lengths,
etc.
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total

Installation 600 x 1,476.34 * 1.4054 = 12,449.09

SITE WORKS: Earthworks, Concrete and Paving Crew Equipment - (1) skid-steer, (1) mini-bobcat, (1) roller,
(1) paving machine, (1) cold-milling machine, (1) Buffalo water truck

Subtotal for Mobilization $24,869.43
Neolith
136 06 16 33 000013 SF 5/8" Interior BC Plywood Wall SheathingApplied to wall studs. $2,567.67
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 420.00 * 321. * 1.4054 * 1,894.76
Demolition 420.00 x 1.14 x 1.4054 = 672.91

STEP 1 - NEOLITH: %" Interior BC Plywood Wall Sheathing. Total Lengths of Interior Restroom Walls:
5'1+9'2+51+9'2=28'6LF

29Lx 7H = 203 sqft x 2 units

Estimated 420 sqft +/-

Thin-Set System vertical section - Wood and Metal Studs Wall Construction . Layers of materials in order of
installation.

1. SHEATHING (fasten to wall studs).

2. Water Resistive Barrier (fasten to sheathing).

3. Lath + Mortar Scratch Coat (placed on top of water resistive barrier).

4. Adhesive Mortar (placed on top of lath/mortar material).

5. Neolith® Slab (placed on top of adhesive mortar).

137 06 16 33 000013 0007 MOD For Application To Metal Studs, Joists, Or Rafters, Add $253.82
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 420.00 x 0.43 x 1.4054 = 253.82
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Page 15 of 20
3/18/2024

56 of 302


--- page 57 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..

Work Order Number:  125766.00

Work Order Title: San Mateo Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel
Neolith
138 09 32 13 000004 SF 3/4" Portland Cement Plaster Scratch Coat for Wallsincludes 15 LB felt and $12,549.10
expanded metal lath.

Installati Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
nstallation 420.00 * 1496 * 1.4054 = 8,830.41
Demolition 420.00 x 6.30 x 1.4054 = 3,718.69
Step 3

Thin-Set System vertical section - Wood and Metal Studs Wall Construction . Layers of materials in order of
installation.

1. SHEATHING (fasten to wall studs).

2. Water Resistive Barrier (fasten to sheathing).

3. Lath + Mortar Scratch Coat (placed on top of water resistive barrier).

4. Adhesive Mortar (placed on top of lath/mortar material).

5. Neolith® Slab (placed on top of adhesive mortar).

139 09 34 00 000002 SF Waterproof And Crack Prevention Membrane, RedGard® $3,606.54
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 420.00 * 401 * 1.4054 = 2,366.97
Demolition 420.00 x 2.10 x 1.4054 = 1,239.56

STEP 2: Interior Restroom Walls:
5'1+9'2+5'1+9'2 = 28'6 LF
29 Lx 7H = 203 sqft x 2 units
Estimated 420 sqft +/-

Thin-Set System vertical section - Wood and Metal Studs Wall Construction . Layers of materials in order of
installation.

1. SHEATHING (fasten to wall studs).

2. Water Resistive Barrier (fasten to sheathing).

3. Lath + Mortar Scratch Coat (placed on top of water resistive barrier).

4. Adhesive Mortar (placed on top of lath/mortar material).

5. Neolith® Slab (placed on top of adhesive mortar).

140 09 35 13 000002 SF Thin Set - Epoxy Mortarlmpact and chemical resistant. $4,344.37
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 420.00 * 597 * 1.4054 = 3,523.90
Demolition 420.00 x 1.39 x 1.4054 = 820.47

STEP 4 - NEOLITH WALL PANELS - Thin-Set System vertical section - Wood and Metal Studs Wall
Construction. Layers of materials in order of installation.

1. Sheathing (fasten to wall studs).

2. Water Resistive Barrier (fasten to sheathing).

3. Lath + Mortar Scratch Coat (placed on top of water resistive barrier).

4. ADHESIVE MORTAR (placed on top of lath/mortar material).

5. Neolith® Slab (placed on top of adhesive mortar).

141 09 78 23 000129 EA 1/4" Thick, Group D, 4’ x 10' Varia Ecoresin Panel $80,700.26
installat Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
nstallation 1200 * 4,785.13 * 1.4054 ~ —-80,700.26

STEP 5 - NEOLITH WALL PANELS - Wall Wainscot Specifications, Manufacturer: Neolith. Estatuario Silk E05
quartz tile panels and are available in 1/4" or 1/2" thickness and 126"x60" in size. Wall panels are to be cut to
a size of 48" x 48", up 8'-0” high. 100% Natural minerals composition. Neolith to be installed by manufacturer
approved contractor per manufacturer's recommendations. Prepare plywood or drywall as needed for thinset of

Neolith.
+ Estimated Total Number of Neolith Panels =11 qty.
142 09 78 23 000129 0428 MOD For 6 To 14 Panels, Deduct -$2,334.06
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 11.00 * -150.98 Xx 1.4054 = 2,334.06
143 09 78 23 000199 EA Laser Cutting Set Up On 4' x 10' PanelsPolished Cut Edge $5,630.65
| Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 1200 * 33387 * 1.4054 = 5,630.65

NEOLITH - The Neolith panels sizes are not available in the standard size of 8'-0" x 4'-0" and in order to meet
the project specifications the panel available only in a size of 126" x 60".

Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Page 16 of 20
3/18/2024

57 of 302


--- page 58 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..

Work Order Number: 125766.00

Work Order Title: San Mateo Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel
Neolith
144 09 78 23 000200 SF Laser Cutting $6,290.78
installat Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 203.00 x 22.05 x 1.4054 ~ 6,290.78

NEOLITH - Manufacturer: Neolith,

+ Estatuario Silk E05 quartz tile panels and are available in .” or .” thickness, .” is used for pricing.

* Based on the information on their website, the Estatuario Silk E05 quartz tile panels are only available in
126" x 60" size.

* 8 panels will need a total of three cuts, two 4’ cuts and one 10.5’ cut.

* Calculation: 4’+ 4’+ 10.5’ = 18.5 SF per panel.

* 18.5’ x 11 panels = Total of 203 SF.

+ Estimated Total Quantity, 203 SF.

Subtotal for Neolith $113,609.13
Paint
145 0991 13 000040 SF 2 Coats Paint, Brush Work, Paint Exterior Concrete Block Walls $733.62
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200.00 * 261 * 1.4054 = 733.62

Inteior bathroom wall locations above the installation of the Neolith
100 sqft per bathroom 2x = 200 saft

146 0991 13 000041 SF 1 Coat Texture Paint, Brush Work, Paint Exterior Concrete Block Walls $449.73
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200.00 * 1.60 * 1.4054 ~ 449.73
Inteior bathroom wall locations above the installation of the Neolith
147 0991 23 000263 EA 1 Coat Paint, Brush/Roller Work, Both Faces, Paint Interior Metal Door $632.21
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 400 * 11246 X 1.4054 ~ 632.21

Inteior bathroom Doors Interior Only two coats.

Subtotal for Paint $1,815.56
Pedestrian Safety
148 01 22 20 000023 HR LaborerFor tasks not included in the Construction Task Catalog® and as $3,737.24
directed by owner only.
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 3200 * 83.10 * 1.4054 ~ 3,737.24

LABORER: Reconfiguring and moving temporary fencing,

moving barricades for pedestrian control and safety, and to remove obstructions from walkways and drive
areas in the morning and put back in the afternoon. Remove and relocate soil and broken-up concrete using
wheel-barrow from excavation to dumpster. Assist mason with the building of the masonry wall.

Subtotal for Pedestrian Safety $3,737.24
Plumbing
149 0505 19 000010 EA 3/8" Diameter x 3" Length, Zinc Plated Steel, Wedge Anchor Expansion Bolt $138.46
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 6.00 x 16.42 x 1.4054 = 138.46
Install concrete wedge anchors to fasten support post to pad at the corner of the sink.
150 09 34 00 000031 EA Pipe Seals, 0.008" Polyethylene Membrane With Polypropylene Fleece $140.89

Laminated On Both Sides, Bonded Waterproof Pipe Seals (Schluter®
KERDI-Seal-PS)

Quantity Unit Price Factor Total

Installation 5.00 x 20.05 x 1.4054 = 140.89

Membrane at pipe penetration locations, three at lavatory sink and two at water closet.

Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Page 17 of 20
3/18/2024

58 of 302


--- page 59 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..

Work Order Number: 125766.00
Work Order Title: San Mateo Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel

Plumbing

151 2205 76 000003 EA 2" Floor Cleanout, Round Or Square Top, Cast Iron With Cast Bronze Screw $2,039.74
Plug And Nickel Bronze Cover
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 72568 1.4054 ~ 2,039.74
Plumbing: Install new clean out for plumbing.
152 2205 76 000004 EA 3" Floor Cleanout, Round Or Square Top, Cast Iron With Cast Bronze Screw $2,228.15
Plug And Nickel Bronze Cover
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 792.71 * 1.4054 * 2,228.15
Plumbing: Install new clean out for plumbing.
153 2205 76 000048 EA 2" Cleanout Tee With Cast Bronze Screw Plug $1,244.14
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 442.63 * 1.4054 = 1,244.14
Two clean out location one per bathroom.
154 2207 16 000002 EA Neoprene Insulation Kit For Under Lavatories $966.30
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 343.78 x 1.4054 * 966.30
Plumbing: Install around piping under the lavatory sink.
155 22 11 16 000378 LF 2" Hard Drawn Type L Copper Tube/Pipe $1,060.80
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 2000 27.98 x 1.4054 * 786.46
Demolition 20.00 x 9.76 x 1.4054 = 274.33
156 22 11 16 000378 0184 MOD For Work In Restricted Working Space, Add $123.11
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 20.00 * 438 * 1.4054 = 123.11
157 22 11 16 000378 LF 2" Hard Drawn Type L Copper Tube/Pipe $978.50
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 2000 * 27.98 x 1.4054 = 786.46
Demolition 14.00 x 9.76 x 1.4054 = 192.03
DRAIN LINE: For lavatory sink
158 2211 16 000378 0184 MOD For Work In Restricted Working Space, Add $123.11
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 2000 * 438 x 1.4054 = 123.11
159 22 11 16 000757 EA Up To 1/2", Cut And Prepare Existing In Place Copper Pipe $92.03
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 4.00 16.37 x 1.4054 = $2.03
Cut existing supply lines to lavatory sink.Cut existing supply lines
160 2211 16 000824 EA 1/2" Copper x Female Iron Pipe Thread Dielectric Union $482.67
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 4.00 x 66.22 x 1.4054 = 372.26
Demolition 2.00 x 39.28 x 1.4054 = 110.41
Connect new copper to existing iron supply pipe.
161 2211 16 000900 LF 1/2" Inside Diameter Copper Pipe/Tubing Type L Assemblyincludes all hangers $1,848.38

and couplings, elbow, tee, reducer fittings. All hangers are complete
assemblies. Not for use where detail is available.

. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 40.00 3059 * 1.4054 = 1,719.65
Demolition 20.00 x 4.58 x 1.4054 = 128.73

WATER SUPPLY PIPING: Includes piping for , lavatory sink, and water closet

Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Page 18 of 20
3/18/2024

59 of 302


--- page 60 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..

Work Order Number: 125766.00
Work Order Title: San Mateo Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel

Plumbing

162 22 11 19 000041 EA 1/2" Inlet/Outlet, Flow Through Automatic Trap Primer (JR Smith 2699) $1,018.16
lati Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 337.68 1.4054 ~ 949.15
Demolition 2.00 x 24.55 x 1.4054 = 69.01
Application to the sinks.
163. 22 11 19 000095 EA Up To 11 Fixture Unit Capacity, 1/2" M.P.T Brass Connection, Copper Body, $1,080.30
Piston Type Water Hammer Arrestor (MI Fab MWH-A)
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 400 * 192.17. * 1.4054 ~ 1,080.30

Used for two units for pluming fixtures.

164 22 13 13 000004 EA Wall Mounted Water Closet, Single Fixture Rough-In, Cast Iron Waste And $5,036.05
Vent Pipelncludes cast iron waste and vent pipe and copper domestic supply .
Excludes fixture, carrier and flush valve.

; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 1,791.68 Xx 1.4054 ~ 5,036.05
Ref Sheet 3
Two new wall mount locations
165 22 42 13 130016 EA Flush Valve Type, Blow Out, Wall Mounted, Wall Outlet, Handicap Accessible, $3,976.05
Elongated Vitreous China Water Closet (Kohler® Stratton™)
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 1414.56 * 1.4054 = 3,976.05
Ref Sheet 3
Two new wall mount locations
166 22 42 13 130053 EA Horizontal Adjustable, No-Hub, Single Water Closet Carrier $3,353.06
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 4,192.92 * 4.4054 = 3,353.06
Ref Sheet 3
Two new wall mount locations
167 22 42 16 130087 EA 1 Station Lavatory Sink, Quartz Surface Evero® (Bradley Verge LVRD1) $9,888.31
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 351797 * 1.4054 * 9,888.31
LAV - Ramp sink per pluming Fixtures.
168 22 42 43 000022 EA 1.28 GPF, Top Spud, Concealed Infrared Water Closet Flush Valve (Toto $4,372.87
EcoPower TET2LN32 Or TET3LN32)
. Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 * 1,504.36 Xx 1.4054 * 4,228.46
Demolition 2.00 x 51.38 x 1.4054 = 144.42

New electrical will need to be installed
to provide power to the new plumbing fixtures.

169 22 42 43 000026 EA 6 Volt DC, 120 Volt AC Hardwired Power Transformer (Sloan EL-451) $450.04
inetalat Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
nstallation 200 * 151.84 X 1.4054 ~ 426.79
Demolition 2.00 x 8.27 x 1.4054 = 23.25
To step down power for DC power to new infrared plumbing fixtures
170 2601 20 910002 EA Lock Out/Tag Out Local DisconnectExcludes tag or padlock See CSI section $167.47
26 01 20 91-0004 for padlock, 26 01 20 91-0005 for tag(s).
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 200 x 59.58 x 1.4054 = 167.47

Pluming water valves.

Subtotal for Plumbing $40,808.59

Pluming

Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Page 19 of 20
3/18/2024

60 of 302


--- page 61 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..

Work Order Number: 125766.00
Work Order Title: San Mateo Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel

Plumin

171 02 41 19 130347 EA Core Drill Minimum ChargeFor projects where the total core drilling charge is $845.57
less than the minimum charge, use task "Minimum Charge For Core Drilling"
exclusively. Task "Minimum Charge For Core Drilling" should not be used in
conjunction with any other tasks in this section. Does not apply to sections
"Drilling In Concrete Per Inch Of Depth" or "Drilling In Brick Or Block Per Inch
Of Depth" or "Drilling In Wood Or Plastic Per Inch Of Depth”.
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total

Installation 1.00 * 845.57 x 4.0000 = 845.57

Plumber: Core hole for new plumbing through concrete block wall from chase to utility room

Subtotal for Pluming $845.57

Risk Register

172 01 22 16 000002 EA Reimbursable FeesReimbursable Fees will be paid to the contractor for eligible $23,000.00
costs as directed by Owner. Insert the appropriate quantity to adjust the base
cost to the actual Reimbursable Fee. If there are multiple Reimbursable Fees,
list each one separately and add a comment in the "note" block to identify the
Reimbursable Fee (e.g. sidewalk closure, road cut, various permits, extended
warranty, expedited shipping costs, etc.). A copy of each receipt, invoice, or
proof of payment shall be submitted with the Price Proposal.

Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 23,000.00 * 100 x 1.0000 = —-23,000.00
Allowance log
Subtotal for Risk Register $23,000.00
Signage
173, 10 14 23 110026 Sl >100 SI, Acrylic, Surface Mount, Indoor/Outdoor Signs With Braille $283.33
Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 288.00 * 060 x 1.4054 = 242.85
Demolition 288.00 x 0.10 x 1.4054 = 40.48
New Signage: 2 SF. 2 signs per room. 1 SF per sign = 2 SF.
174 1014 23 110026 0218 MOD For Molded Plastic Frame, Add $80.95
; Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 288.00 x 0.20 x 1.4054 ~ 80.95
Subtotal for Signage $364.28

Proposal Total $379,386.64

This total represents the correct total for the proposal. Any discrepancy between line totals,
sub-totals and the proposal total is due to rounding.

The Percentage of NPP on this Proposal: %

Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Page 20 of 20
3/18/2024

61 of 302


--- page 62 ---
EXHIBIT B
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS
ARTICLE 18 - MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE 
18.01
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract, and for five (5) years 
thereafter, insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may 
arise from or in connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the Contractor, his 
agents, representatives, employees, or subcontractors. 
18.02
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
A.
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 covering 
CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property 
damage, bodily injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $5,000,000 
per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall 
apply separately to this project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate 
limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.  
B.
Automobile Liability:  Insurance Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), 
with limits no less than $5,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
C.
Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory 
Limits, and Employers’ Liability insurance with a limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident 
for bodily injury or disease. 
D.
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) insurance utilizing an “All Risk” (Special Perils) 
coverage form, with limits equal to the completed value of the project and no coinsurance 
penalty provisions.
E.
Surety Bonds as described below.
F.
Professional Liability (if Design/Build), with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence or 
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.
G.
Contractors’ Pollution Legal Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and 
Omissions (if project involves environmental hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 per 
occurrence or claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.
18.03
If the contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown 
above, the City requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or the higher limits 
maintained by the contractor. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified 
minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall be available to the City.
18.04
Self-Insured Retentions. Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. At 
the option of the City, either: the contractor shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate 
such self-insured retentions as respects the City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; 
or the Contractor shall provide a financial guarantee satisfactory to the City guaranteeing 
payment of losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. The 
62 of 302

--- page 63 ---
policy language shall provide, or be endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be 
satisfied by either the named insured or City.
ARTICLE 19 - OTHER INSURANCE PROVISIONS 
19.01
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
A.
The City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional 
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or equipment 
furnished in connection with such work or operations and automobiles owned, leased, hired, 
or borrowed by or on behalf of the Contractor. General liability coverage can be provided in 
the form of an endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 
20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10, CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if 
later revisions used).
B.
For any claims related to this project, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the City, its officers, 
officials, employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, 
its officers, officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance 
and shall not contribute with it. 
C.
Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage shall not be 
canceled, except with notice to the City.
19.02
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) Insurance 
A.
Contractor may submit evidence of Builder’s Risk insurance in the form of Course of 
Construction coverage. Such coverage shall name the City as a loss payee as their interest 
may appear.
B.
If the project does not involve new or major reconstruction, at the option of the City, an 
Installation Floater may be acceptable. For such projects, a Property Installation Floater shall 
be obtained that provides for the improvement, remodel, modification, alteration, 
conversion or adjustment to existing buildings, structures, processes, machinery and 
equipment.  The Property Installation Floater shall provide property damage coverage for 
any building, structure, machinery or equipment damaged, impaired, broken, or destroyed 
during the performance of the Work, including during transit, installation, and testing at the 
City’s site.
19.03
Claims Made Policies
A.
If any coverage required is written on a claims-made coverage form: 
1.
The retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the execution date 
of the contract or the beginning of contract work.
2.
Insurance must be maintained, and evidence of insurance must be provided, for at least 
five (5) years after completion of contract work. 
3.
If coverage is cancelled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made 
policy form with a retroactive date prior to the contract effective, or start of work date, 
the Contractor must purchase extended reporting period coverage for a minimum of 
five (5) years after completion of contract work. 
63 of 302

--- page 64 ---
4.
A copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the City for review. 
5.
If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification/remediation, the 
Contractors Pollution Liability policy shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos 
exclusions. If the services involve mold identification/remediation, the Contractors 
Pollution Liability policy shall not contain a mold exclusion, and the definition of 
Pollution shall include microbial matter, including mold. 
19.04
Acceptability of Insurers 
A.
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a 
current A.M. Best rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
19.05
Waiver of Subrogation 
A.
Contractor hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any insurer of Contractor 
may acquire from Contractor by virtue of the payment of any loss. Contractor agrees to 
obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The 
Workers’ Compensation policy shall be endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of 
the City for all work performed by the Contractor, its employees, agents and subcontractors. 
19.06
Verification of Coverage 
A.
Contractor shall furnish the City with original Certificates of Insurance including all required 
amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage 
required by this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL 
policy listing all policy endorsements to City before work begins. However, failure to obtain 
the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies 
of all required insurance policies, including endorsements, required by these specifications, 
at any time.
19.07
Subcontractors 
A.
Contractor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all 
requirements stated herein, and Contractor shall ensure that City is an additional insured on 
insurance required from subcontractors. For CGL coverage, subcontractors shall provide 
coverage with a form at least as broad as CG 20 38 04 13.
19.08
Surety Bonds. 
A.
Contractor shall provide the following Surety Bonds:
1.
Performance Bond
2.
Payment Bond
3.
Maintenance Bond
B.
The Payment Bond and the Performance Bond shall be in a sum equal to the contract price. 
If the Performance Bond provides for a one-year warranty a separate Maintenance Bond is 
not necessary.  If the warranty period specified in the contract is for longer than one year a 
Maintenance Bond equal to 10% of the contract price is required.  Bonds shall be duly 
executed by a responsible corporate surety, authorized to issue such bonds in the State of 
California and secured through an authorized agent with an office in California.
64 of 302

--- page 65 ---
19.09
Special Risks or Circumstances.  
A.
City reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of 
the risk, prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other circumstances.
65 of 302

--- page 66 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4674
File ID: 24-8538
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
April 15, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Temporary Standby Generator for Dale Avenue Pump Station Upgrade – Change Order
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Contract Change Order No. 4 to the Agreement with Herc Rentals, Inc. for a temporary emergency standby 
generator to support the Dale Ave Pump Station Upgrade project in an amount not to exceed $66,565.48, increasing the 
total agreement amount to $569,608.17; add $45,000 to the contingency reserve; extend the Agreement term to July 31, 
2024; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the change order in substantially the form presented and issue 
change orders within the contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
The Basins 2 & 3 Collection System Improvements (Basins 2 & 3) is a Clean Water Program project that increases capacity 
and improves flow management to prevent sanitary sewer overflows in several areas throughout the City, including one at 
Dale Avenue Pump Station (DAPS). The DAPS Upgrade project included refurbishment of force mains, pump station 
equipment upgrades, and replacement of the existing emergency standby generator. 
In October 2019, City Council awarded an agreement to Anvil Builders, Inc. (Anvil) to construct the DAPS Upgrade project. 
Anvil’s scope of work is nearly complete; however, there is still ongoing work associated with installation of a permanent 
emergency standby generator. The emergency standby generator at DAPS is critical, providing backup power for the 
pumps and facility during power failures.  DAPS is the City’s largest sewer pump station, with a significant portion of 
overall wastewater flow routed through the station.  Due to Bay Area Air Quality Management District requirements to 
comply with the latest air quality emission standards, installation of new pollution abatement equipment for the generator 
is required. While installing the new generator and pollution abatement equipment, a temporary standby generator is 
required to ensure continuous power capability at the station. 
In August 2022, City Council approved a $222,090.41 agreement with Herc Rentals, Inc. (Herc) to provide a temporary 
standby generator required to support the DAPS Upgrade Project throughout the remainder of Anvil’s efforts to install the 
permanent emergency standby generator. The Council also approved establishing a $110,046 contingency reserve in case 
of unforeseen conditions or delays. At the time of the agreement approval, the new permanent emergency generator was 
expected to be installed by the end of summer of 2023. 
In July 2023, the Public Works Director utilized the contingency reserve to execute Contract Change Order No. 1, adding 
$107,170.16 to the agreement. This change order addressed additional costs not accounted for in the original quote and 
agreement, such as utilizing longer cables to relocate the temporary generator from the public right of way onto the DAPS 
site. Residential property owners adjacent to the DAPS site raised a concern that storing the temporary generator in the 
public right of way impacted residential parking, so the temporary generator was relocated onto the DAPS property to 
address this concern. 
66 of 302

--- page 67 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
In August 2023, City Council approved Contract Change Order No. 2 to increase the total agreement value to $436,477.21, 
to extend contract end date to January 2024, and approved an additional contingency reserve of $80,000. 
In February 2024, the Public Works Director utilized the contingency reserve to execute Contract Change Order No. 3 to 
extend the use of the temporary generator through April 2024. Completion of the DAPS project has been challenging due 
to continued procurement delays and seismic design updates, which have extended the anticipated completion date to 
July 2024. As a result, an increase of $66,565.48 to the temporary generator agreement with Herc is required in order to 
have a temporary standby generator available through the end of July 2024, which is the estimated completion for the 
new permanent generator. 
Based on the above, staff recommends approval of Contract Change Order No. 4 to increase the value of the agreement by 
$66,565.48, increasing the total agreement value to $569,608.17, to add $45,000 to the contingency reserve in case 
further unforeseen delays associated with procurement, installation, testing, and startup of the new permanent generator 
occur, and to extend the Agreement term until July 31, 2024. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the Basins 2 and 3 Collection System Improvements Project (46s003) to fund this change 
order.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The work addressed by this administrative report is being undertaken to support the Clean Water Program. This project is 
subject to the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the general components of which are 
included as part of the Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) (SCH No. 201532006) that was 
prepared for the Clean Water Program. The Final PEIR was certified by City Council on June 6, 2016.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Contract Change Order No. 4
STAFF CONTACT
Tom Williams, Senior Engineer
twilliams@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7307
Deryk Daquigan, Engineering Manager
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7287
67 of 302

--- page 68 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
330 WEST 20TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
(650) 522-7300
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER # 4
PROJECT:
Temporary Standby Generator for Dale Ave Pump Station Upgrade
TO: Herc Rentals, Inc.
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER NO. 
4
           Page 1 of 1
PO/SCON No.
PO-0000378
Date
4/1/2024
Fund
590 Capital Projects Fund
Cost Center
Wastewater Treatment Plant
Spend Category
Other Contractual Services
You are hereby directed to make the herein described changes from the plans and specifications or do the following described work not 
included in the plans and specifications on your contract.
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
Following is a description of work to be done, estimate of quantities, and prices to be paid. 
The Original Agreement for renting of the 1000 kW temporary emergency standby generator at Dale Avenue Pump Station (DAPS) was 
signed with HercRentals on October 10, 2022. This rental agreement was for a period from September 16, 2022 through June 16, 2023. 
Subsequently, CCO No. 1 was issued on August 7, 2023 for the supply of additional length of cables associated with relocation of the 
generator and for extending the rental period from June 16 through September 2023. Subsequent CCO No. 2 issued on August 29, 2023 
extended the generator rental period through January 2024 and CCO No. 3 issued on February 16, 2024 further extended the rental period 
through April 31, 2024. 
This Contract Change Order includes an extension of the temporary 1000 kW emergency standby generator rental for additional three (3) 
months from May 1, 2024 through July 31, 2024. The total cost of this extended rental period is $66,565.48 as per the attached quote from 
HercRentals.
Total cost of change not to exceed: $66,565.48
We, the undersigned contractor, have given careful consideration to the change 
proposed and hereby agree, if this proposal is approved, that we will provide all 
equipment, furnish all materials, except as may otherwise be noted above, and 
perform all services necessary for the work above specified, and will accept as 
full payment therefore the prices shown above.
By reason of this proposed change, extension of time through July 31, 2024 will 
be allowed.
Date Accepted: 
Contractor: Herc Rentals, Inc.
By: 
Title: 
DISTRIBUTION: Purchasing, City Clerk, Contractor, Construction Manager, 
Project Analyst, Project File
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNT
Original Contract Price
$ 222,090.41
Previous Change Orders
$294,468.12
Total to date
$516,558.53
This Change Order
$66,565.48
Revised Contract Price
$569,608.17
Date Approved: 
By: 
Matt Fabry, Director of Public Works
NOTE: This change order is not effective until approved by the 
Director of Public Works.
68 of 302

--- page 69 ---
Show R.A. Number on all Correspondence

QUOTE a R.A.No. 55690832

™
cor» FltercRentals age 1 of3

HERC OAKLAND PROSOLUTIONS CITY OF SAN MATEO DALE AVE PUMP STATION
7727 OAKPORT STREET 330 WEST 20TH AVE 1025 PATRICIA AVE

OAKLAND, CA 94621 SAN MATEO, CA 94403-1338 SAN MATEO, CA 94401

510-633-2040
650-823-1266

DESCRIPTION/CHARGES

EST START: 5/01/24 8:00 EST RETURN: 7/24/24 8:00 DROP DATE:
SHIPPED BY: ORDERED BY: LEARNMONTH, ROB DROP TIME:
ORDER DATE: 1/30/24 SALESPERSON: 407 SALES COORDINATOR:

PO# / JOBH: PO-0000378 / DALE AVE PUMP STATIO Rates subject to availability

Herc Rentals offers peace of mind when you purchase Rental Protection Plan ("RPP") at the start of your rental. This
optional program limits your responsibility when accidental damage or theft occurs on covered equipment. You will be
charged the RPP fee if you choose to purchase RPP or until you provide an acceptable certificate of insurance. View

the benefits, details, and exclusions to RPP by visiting our website at
https:/Awww.hercrentals.com/services/rpp-rental-protection-plan/terms-and-conditions.html or contact your Herc Rentals

servicing location for more information.

Qty Equipment # Hre/ Min Hour Day Week Month Amount

1 1000KW GENERATOR DSL 8/ 2160.00 360.00 2160.00 5568.00 16500.00 49500.00
5012100

CA PROPERTY TAX RECOVERY FEE 2217999001 371.25
CABLE 4/0 50FT CAMLOCK ° 20.00 60.00 10080.00
9400815

CA PROPERTY TAX RECOVERY FEE 2217999001
FEMALE PIGTAIL 4/0 UNDER 10FT
9400870

CA PROPERTY TAX RECOVERY FEE 2217999001
MALE PIGTAIL 4/0 UNDER 10FT
9400880

CA PROPERTY TAX RECOVERY FEE 2217999001
* * * Items are priced per piece * * *

CONTINUED

CAREFULLY READ THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS THAT APPEAR BELOW AND ON REVERSE SIDE OF THIS PAGE ("TERMS")

RENTAL PROTECTION PLAN. Customer must either show proof of Property Insurance as required in Section 8 on reverse side hereof or purchase Rental Protection Plan ("RPP"). Herc Rentals Inc. or its affiliate ("Herc") may offer RPP
for a fee to Customer on certain Equipment and for certain types of loss or damage to limit Customer's liability for property loss or damage to such Equipment for such loss or damage. RPP is not offered on all types of Equipment.
NOTWITHSTANDING PAYMENT OF THE RPP FEE, RPP DOES NOT APPLY, AND CUSTOMER IS LIABLE FOR, ALL DAMAGES TO OR REPLACEMENT COST OF, THE EQUIPMENT, AS APPLICABLE, AND ANY ADMINISTRATIVE
FEES AND EXPENSES OF HERC: (1) CAUSED BY THE EQUIPMENT BEING USED OR OPERATED IN VIOLATION OF ANY OF THE TERMS; (2) IN CASE OF NEGLIGENCE, AS DETERMINED IN HERC’S SOLE DISCRETION; AND/OR
(3) IF COVERAGE IS EXCLUDED UNDER THE RPP TERMS AND CONDITIONS POSTED ON HERC’S WEBSITE. Upon accepting RPP, Customer agrees to pay an RPP fee. Customer must review the RPP Terms and Conditions posted
on Here's website at https:/Avww.hercrentals.com/services/rpp-rental-protection-plan/terms-and-conditions.html before deciding whether to accept RPP. If Herc offers RPP to Customer for certain Equipment and Customer accepts RPP
and pays Herc the RPP fee, in return for the RPP fee, if at the time of the claim, RPP covers such repair or replacement, Here agrees to waive certain claims for accidental damages to or theft of such covered Equipment occurring during
normal and careful use. Customer remains liable for all other damages as set forth in the Terms. RPP IS NOT INSURANCE. TO THE EXTENT HERC DOES NOT OFFER RPP TO CUSTOMER, OR CUSTOMER DOES NOT ACCEPT RPP,
CUSTOMER MUST MAINTAIN THE PROPERTY INSURANCE COVERAGE REQUIRED BY PARAGRAPH 8. PLEASE BE AWARE THAT IF CUSTOMER DOES NOT ELECT TO TAKE RPP AND IT ELECTS TO MAINTAIN PROPERTY
INSURANCE COVERAGE, AND IF THE CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE PROVIDED TO HERC TO EVIDENCE SUCH INSURANCE COVERAGE IS UNACCEPTABLE TO HERC OR THE APPLICABLE POLICIES EXPIRE, CUSTOMER
AGREES THAT HERC MAY CHARGE RPP FOR ALL APPLICABLE RENTALS UNTIL SUCH TIME AS AN ACCEPTABLE AND VALID CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE IS PROVIDED AND SUCH MATTERS ARE CORRECTED TO
HERC'S REASONABLE SATISFACTION. NOTWITHSTANDING ANY NOTATION ON THE RENTAL RECORD, RPP IS NOT OFFERED ON OR AVAILABLE FOR THE RENTAL OF PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES AND CERTAIN

OTHER EQUIPMENT LISTED ON HERC’S WEBSITE.

A detailed description of fees and surcharges that may be applicable to Customer's rental can be found on Here's THE EQUIPMENT IS RENTED BY HERC TO THE CUSTOMER PURSUANT TO THE TERMS. CUSTOMER
wepste at ‘nt s:/Awww.hercrentals.com/services-associated-charges.html ‘Customer agrees (0 pay. in gadiuon to REPRESENTS HAVING READ AND AGREED TO SAME. 7

all rental charges, all fees and charges set forth above and, the following charges as applicable: (i) based on -

Customer's possession’ and/or use of the Equipment, all consumables, Bes, jigenses, Stecerit oniure taxes and | PARAGRAPH 11 ON THE BACK OF THIS PAGE IS IN LIEU OF (i) ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR

any other governmental charges; (ii) additional charges for more than one shift use; (iii) freight, delivery, pick up, STATUTORY, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY AND THE
transportation charges; (iv) transportation service surcharges; (v) repairs and replacement per this contract; (vi) TAO IRONIC POR DAMAea” A PARTICULAR PURPOSE; AND (ii) ALL OBLIGATIONS ON THE PART OF

cleaning charge for Equipment returned with excessive dirt, concrete and/or paint; (vii) fees for lost keys; (viii)
refueling service charges; (ix) fines for use of dyed diesel fuel in on road Equipment; (x) preventative maintenance CUSTOMER WAIVES ALL INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR SPECIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF

charges; (xi) emissions and environmental surcharges and fees; (xii) vehicle license fees. HERC COLLECTS OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE RENTAL, MAINTENANCE,
THESE FEES AND CHARGES AS REVENUE AND USES THEM AT ITS DISCRETION. USE, OPERATION, STORAGE, ERECTION, DISMANTLING OR TRANSPORTATION OF THE EQUIPMENT.

Customer is obligated to return the Equipment in a good, clean, and uncontaminated condition, free of any and all hazardous substances.

Quote Valid For 30 Days From Order Date

Terms are due upon receipt Not valid without Barcode

Customer Name Title

Customer Signature Date ||

For GREAT DEALS on USED EQUIPMENT - visit us on-line at HercRentals.com

69 of 302


--- page 70 ---
Show R.A. Number on all Correspondence

—— a R.A. No. 55690832

™M
** COPY ** HercRentals Page 2 of 3

HERC OAKLAND PROSOLUTIONS CITY OF SAN MATEO DALE AVE PUMP STATION
7727 OAKPORT STREET 330 WEST 20TH AVE 1025 PATRICIA AVE

OAKLAND, CA 94621 SAN MATEO, CA 94403-1338 SAN MATEO, CA 94401
510-633-2040

QUOTE

650-823-1266

DESCRIPTION/CHARGES

EST START: 5/01/24 8:00 EST RETURN: 7/24/24 8:00 DROP DATE:
SHIPPED BY: ORDERED BY: LEARNMONTH, ROB DROP TIME:
ORDER DATE: SALESPERSON: 407 SALES COORDINATOR:

Rates subject to availability
Month

1/30/24

/ DALE AVE PUMP STATIO
Hrs/

PO# / JOB#: PO-0000378

Qty Equipment # Amount

Min Day Week
350.00

60376.85

6188.63

66565.48

PICKUP CHARGE

Taxable Sub-total: 60376.85

CAREFULLY READ THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS THAT APPEAR BELOW AND ON REVERSE SIDE OF THIS PAGE ("TERMS")

RENTAL PROTECTION PLAN. Customer must either show proof of Property Insurance as required in Section 8 on reverse side hereof or purchase Rental Protection Plan ("RPP"). Herc Rentals Inc. or its affiliate ("Herc") may offer RPP
for a fee to Customer on certain Equipment and for certain types of loss or damage to limit Customer's liability for property loss or damage to such Equipment for such loss or damage. RPP is not offered on all types of Equipment.
NOTWITHSTANDING PAYMENT OF THE RPP FEE, RPP DOES NOT APPLY, AND CUSTOMER IS LIABLE FOR, ALL DAMAGES TO OR REPLACEMENT COST OF, THE EQUIPMENT, AS APPLICABLE, AND ANY ADMINISTRATIVE
FEES AND EXPENSES OF HERC: (1) CAUSED BY THE EQUIPMENT BEING USED OR OPERATED IN VIOLATION OF ANY OF THE TERMS; (2) IN CASE OF NEGLIGENCE, AS DETERMINED IN HERC’S SOLE DISCRETION; AND/OR
(3) IF COVERAGE IS EXCLUDED UNDER THE RPP TERMS AND CONDITIONS POSTED ON HERC’S WEBSITE. Upon accepting RPP, Customer agrees to pay an RPP fee. Customer must review the RPP Terms and Conditions posted
on Here’s website at https:/Avww.hercrentals.com/services/rpp-rental-protection-plan/terms-and-conditions.html before deciding whether to accept RPP. If Herc offers RPP to Customer for certain Equipment and Customer accepts RPP
and pays Herc the RPP fee, in return for the RPP fee, if at the time of the claim, RPP covers such repair or replacement, Herc agrees to waive certain claims for accidental damages to or theft of such covered Equipment occurring during
normal and careful use. Customer remains liable for all other damages as set forth in the Terms. RPP IS NOT INSURANCE. TO THE EXTENT HERC DOES NOT OFFER RPP TO CUSTOMER, OR CUSTOMER DOES NOT ACCEPT RPP,
CUSTOMER MUST MAINTAIN THE PROPERTY INSURANCE COVERAGE REQUIRED BY PARAGRAPH 8. PLEASE BE AWARE THAT IF CUSTOMER DOES NOT ELECT TO TAKE RPP AND IT ELECTS TO MAINTAIN PROPERTY
INSURANCE COVERAGE, AND IF THE CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE PROVIDED TO HERC TO EVIDENCE SUCH INSURANCE COVERAGE IS UNACCEPTABLE TO HERC OR THE APPLICABLE POLICIES EXPIRE, CUSTOMER
AGREES THAT HERC MAY CHARGE RPP FOR ALL APPLICABLE RENTALS UNTIL SUCH TIME AS AN ACCEPTABLE AND VALID CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE IS PROVIDED AND SUCH MATTERS ARE CORRECTED TO
HERC'S REASONABLE SATISFACTION. NOTWITHSTANDING ANY NOTATION ON THE RENTAL RECORD, RPP IS NOT OFFERED ON OR AVAILABLE FOR THE RENTAL OF PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES AND CERTAIN

OTHER EQUIPMENT LISTED ON HERC’S WEBSITE.

A detailed description of fees and surcharges that may be applicable to Customer's rental can be found on Here's
website at https:/Awww_hercrentals.com/services-associated-charges.html Customer agrees to pay, in addition to
all rental charges, all fees and charges set forth above and, the following charges as applicable: (i) based on
Customer's possession and/or use of the Equipment, all consumables, fees, licenses, present and future taxes and
any other governmental charges; (ii) additional charges for more than one shift use; (iii) freight, delivery, pick up,
transportation charges; (iv) transportation service surcharges; (v) repairs and replacement per this contract; (vi)
cleaning charge for Equipment returned with excessive dirt, concrete and/or paint; (vii) fees for lost keys; (viii)
refueling service charges; (ix) fines for use of dyed diesel fuel in on road Equipment; (x) preventative maintenance
charges; (xi) emissions and environmental surcharges and fees; (xii) vehicle license fees. HERC COLLECTS
THESE FEES AND CHARGES AS REVENUE AND USES THEM AT ITS DISCRETION.

Customer is obligated to return the Equipment in a good, clean, and uncontaminated conditio!

Customer Name Title

Customer Signature Date

For GREAT DEALS on USED EQUIPMENT - visit us on-line at HercRentals.com

THE EQUIPMENT IS RENTED BY HERC TO THE CUSTOMER PURSUANT TO THE TERMS. CUSTOMER
REPRESENTS HAVING READ AND AGREED TO SAME.

PARAGRAPH 11 ON THE BACK OF THIS PAGE IS IN LIEU OF (i) ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR
STATUTORY, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY AND THE
IMPLIED WARRANTY OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE; AND (ii) ALL OBLIGATIONS ON THE PART OF
HERC TO CUSTOMER FOR DAMAGES.

CUSTOMER WAIVES ALL INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR SPECIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF
OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE RENTAL, MAINTENANCE,
USE, OPERATION, STORAGE, ERECTION, DISMANTLING OR TRANSPORTATION OF THE EQUIPMENT.

free of any and all hazardous substances.

Quote Valid For 30 Days From Order Date
Terms are due upon receipt Not valid without Barcode

70 of 302


--- page 71 ---
RESERVATION AND RENTAL CONTRACT - HERC RENTALS INC. AND AFFILIATES ("HERC")

This Agreement ("Agreement") is for the rental of the vehicles and equipment and related services described on the other side of this page ("Front"), including all parts of and attachments and accessories to such
EquinIENE ("Equipment"). This Agreement is between the customer identified on the Front ("Customer") and Herc. Both parties acknowledge that this Agreement consists of the terns written or printed on this page and the
ront.

1. NATURE OF THIS AGREEMENT. This Agreement is solely for the purpose of creating a rental transaction, which allows Customer to use the Equipment as permitted by this Agreement. CUSTOMER REPRESENTS THAT
THE EQUIPMENT |S TO BE USED SOLELY AND EXCLUSIVELY FOR BUSINESS OR COMMERCIAL PURPOSES. The Equipment is owned by Herc. Customer acknowledges that no one other than Herc may transfer or assign
the Equipment or any rights or obligations under this Agreement. Neither Customer nor any Authorized Operators (as defined below) are agents of Herc. No one may repair or alter the Equipment without Here's prior written
approval. Customer will not suffer any liens or encumbrances to attach to the Equipment and will defend, indemnify, and hold Herc harmless from all loss, liability, and expense by reason thereof.

2. WHO MAY OPERATE THE EQUIPMENT. Only Customer and the following persons with Customer's express permission, subject to the requirements of this Section, ("Authorized Operators") may operate the Equipment:
Customer's employer, employees, and fellow employees operating the Equipment in the course and scope of such employee’s regular employment, and persons approved by Herc in writing. Customer and all Authorized Operators
must: only use the Equipment in the course and scope of Customer's or Customer's employer's regular business operations, hold a valid driver's license to operate a motor vehicle, be of legal age to operate the Equipment, be
properly qualified and trained to operate the Equipment, and have a valid operator s license with respect to the Equipment where required by law. Customer is solely responsible for determining that the Authorized Operators have
met the requirements of this Section and are properly qualified and trained to use the Equipment prior to operating the Equipment. Customer is site iesnions! ble for limiting the use of the Equipment to Authorized Operators meeting
the requirements of this Section and for the acts and omissions of any person that operates, uses, stores or moves the Equipment regardless of whether that person is an Authorized Operator.

3. RENTAL FEES AND OTHER CHARGES. Customer will pay Herc on demand to the address and by the date specified in the applicable invoice, all charges, including without limitation, rental, time, mileage, service, transportation,
refueling service, surcharges, sales and use taxes, and tax reimbursements imposed with respect to the Equipment and this Agreement, and all expenses, including reasonable attomey’s fees and costs incurred in collecting same,
all in accordance with this Agreement. A detailed description of all fees and surcharges that ray be applicable to Custorer’s rental can be found on Herc’s website at https./www hefcrentals.com/services-associated-charges html
Customer must notify Herc in writing of any disputed charge within 30 days of receipt of such invoice or Customer shall be deemed to have imevocably waived such disputed charge. The basic daily, weekly and 4-week rental rates
will entitle Customer to a maximum of one-shift use (/.e., a maximum of 8 hours per day, 40 hours per week, 160 hours per 4 weeks). Use in excess of one shift will be payable at the hourly rate of 1/8 of the daily charge (for a daily
rental), 1/40 of the weely charge (for a weekly rental) and 1/160 of the 4-week charge (for a 4-week rental), plus applicable taxes. All charges are subject to final audit by Herc. Herc will have a lien as allowed by law for charges
incurred hereunder upon the premises and improvernents upon which the Equipment is employed. Rentals are F.O.B. the Herc Branch unless otherwise specified. Shipping charges from such Branch to the Customer's destination
and retum and all loading, unloading, assembling and dismantling will be paid by Customer. All rates for rentals in excess of 4 weeks are subject to change on 30 days' written notice to the Customer with respect to any portion of the
rental period then remaining. Charges not paid on time, as required by this Agreement, may be subject to a late payment fee as prowded in this Agreement. Customer may also be charged a reasonable fee for any check used for
payment hereunder that is returned unpaid. Customer agrees in the event of a default, that any deposit made by Customer shall be used by Herc for unpaid rent and other charges, damages and costs incurred due to the default.

4. CUSTOMER’S RESPONSIBILITIES. Customer is responsible to Herc for all loss or damage to the Equipment, and for its return in the same condition it was received, except for ordinary wear, and free of any hazardous materials
and/or contaminants. Such responsibility is limited to the full value of the Equipment at the time it is lost or damaged, less its salvage value, plus any administrative fees and Herc’s related expenses, such as loss of use, appraisal fees
Or recovery costs ("Full Value"). The Equipment must be returned to Herc at the renting Herc Branch by the Estimated Return Date (EST RETURN) specified on the Front, or sooner if demanded by Herc. Customer must notify Herc if
it desires to change the EST RETURN for all or some of the Equipment. Customer acknowledges that it must confirm retum receipt of the Equipment by Herc at the expiration or earlier termination of the rental. Until such time as Herc
receives actual possession of the Equipment, Customer agrees to hold said Equipment in a safe and secure manner. The Equipment will be used and kept only at Customer’ s place of business or the job site at which the Equipment is
used and will not be moved without the prior written consent of Herc. The Equipment will be used only in accordance with the manufacturer s instructions within its rated capacity. Customer will perform or cause to be perfonned and
pay for all normal periodic and other basic service, adjustments and lubrication of the Equipment, including but not limited to: checking of the Equipment before each shift; checking and maintaining crankcase, transmission, cooling and
fluid systems daily, and checking tire pressures and battery fluid and charge levels weekly. If the Equipment fails to operate properly or becomes in need of repair, Customer will immediately cease using same and will immediately
notify Herc. Customer is solely responsible for providing a secure and safe work environment for all parties, including Herc and its employees, and for ensuring that the possession, storage, use and operation of the Equipment is
carried out in compliance with applicable laws and industry standards, (including but not limited to those relating to worker safety and the environment). Customer is solely responsible for supervising the use and operation of the
Equipment to ensure it is used in accordance with manufacturer instructions for proper operation and safety, for ensuring that the Equipment is proper for Customer's intended use and environment, and for ensuring users of the
Equipment are qualified, trained, and familiar with the Equipment

5. RISK OF LOSS. All loss of or darnage to the Equipment from any cause whatsoever while on rental and whether or not due to the fault of Customer, including, but not limited to, fire, flood, theft, comprehensive losses, collision and
rollover, and Acts of God, will be the sole responsibility of Customer and will be paid to Herc promptly upon Customer’s receipt of an invoice therefor. Such responsibility is limited to the Full Value of the Equipment at the time it is lost or
damaged. THE COST OF LABOR FOR REPAIRS WILL BE EITHER HERC’S THEN PREVAILING HOURLY RATE FOR LABOR, POSTED AT THE HERC BRANCH WHERE THE EQUIPMENT IS TO BE REPAIRED, OR THE
REPAIRER’S HOURLY RATE FOR LABOR CHARGED TO HERC FOR REPAIRS AS THE CASE MAY BE. PARTS WILL BE CHARGED AT HERC’S COST PLUS A RETAIL MARKUP. Use of the Equipment by persons other than
Customer or Authorized Operators will be at Customer's sole risk.

6. EVENTS OF DEFAULT. Customer shall be in default of this Agreement if Customer fails to pay any amount when due hereunder, or if Customer breaches any of the other terms of this Agreement, or if Customer becomes insolvent
or ceases to do business as a going concern, or if a petition in bankruptcy is filed by or against Customer, or if Customer is in default pursuant to the provisions of any other agreement by and between Customer and Herc. Customer
will further be deemed to be in default if the Equipment is obtained from Herc through fraud or misrepresentation or is stored or used: (A) in violation of any law or ordinance including without limitation, any local, state or federal law or
regulation involving “Hazardous Materials," including "DOT Hazardous Materials," as set forth in 49 C.F.R. 171-180; (6) in a reckless, negligent or abusive manner, or is damaged while being rented by Customer, (C) in violation of
Paragraph 4 above, (D) in any fashion or manner for which the Equipment was not designed or beyond the manufacturer s rated capacity for the Equipment.

7. REMEDIES OF HERC. In case of default by Customer, or if Herc deems itself insecure, Herc may, but is not required to, peaceably enter the premises where the Equipment is located and render it inoperative or remove same
with or without process of law and without any notice to Customer or liability. Custorner hereby waives any right to any hearing or to receive any notice of legal process, as a pre-condition for Herc recovering the Equipment.
Customer agrees to permit such entry and action by Herc. In such case Herc may also terminate this Agreement without notice to Customer or prejudice to any remedies or claims which Herc might otherwise have for any amount
due hereunder, expense of retaking, court costs arid reasonable attorneys’ fees. Customer will remain liable for the Equipment or for any loss or injury to the Equipment, any property and/or persons, notwithstanding such
termination. Herc shall have the right to issue and circulate theft notices, cause warrants to be issued and take any other steps which Herc may reasonably deem necessary to recover the Equipment, if the Equipment is not
retumed on the date specified on the Front or sooner as permitted by the terms of this Agreement. The remedies provided herein in favor of Herc are not exclusive but shall be curnulative and in addition to all other remedies
existing at law or in equity, any one or more of which may be exercised simultaneously or successively.

8. INSURANCE. Liability Insurance for Injury/Darmage to Third Parties - Customer agrees to maintain and carry, at its own expense and at all times during the term of this Agreement, the following insurance: (1) commercial
automobile insurance, with at least a per occurrence limit of $1 million, which includes coverage for owned and non-owned motor vehicles. Herc shall be named as an additional insured for all claims arising out of the maintenance,
operation, or use of the vehicle. All insurance, whether issued on a primary or umbrella/excess basis, afforded to Herc hereby shall be primary to, and non-contributory with, any other insurance on which Herc is a named insured,
whether such other insurance is primary, excess, self-insurance, or insurance on any other basis, to the furthest extent permitted by law. Where, by operation of law, Herc is required to provide primary coverage, such primary and
epee A protection shall not exceed the minimum limits renee by the automobile financial tesponsilty laws of the applicable state. Such protection will conform to the basic requirements of the spplicable No-Fault law,
BUT DOES NOT INCLUDE UNINSURED/UNDERINSURED MOTORIST, SUPPLEMENTARY NO FAULT OR ANY OTHER OPTIONAL COVERAGE. TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, HERC AND CUSTOMER REJECT

THE INCLUSION OF ANY SUCH COVERAGE. If such coverage is imposed by operation of law, then the limits of such coverage will be the minimum required by the law of the applicable state; (2) commercial general liability
insurance (providing coverage equal to or greater than the standard ISO CG 00 01 12 04 form), including contractual liability coverage covering Customer's indemnity obligations of Section 9, with limits of insurance not less than $1
million per occurrence and $2 million in the aggregate. Customer shall name Herc as an additional insured for all claims and liability arising out of the maintenance, operation, or use by the Customer of equipment leased to Customer
by Here (providing coverage equal or greater than the standard ISO CG 20 28 11 85). Such insurance shall be primary and non-contributory to any other insurance maintained by Herc. Customer further agrees that the amount of
insurance available to Herc shall be for the full amount of the 103s up to policy limits of liability and shall not be limited to the minimum requirements of this agreement. In the event any policy provided in compliance with this
agreement states that the insurance afforded to an additional insured will not be broader than that required by contract, or words of similar meaning, Customer agrees that nothing in this agreement is intended to restrict or limit the
breadth of such insurance; and (3) property insurance for the full replacement cost of the Equipment, including coverage for all risks of loss or damage to the Equipment. The policy must expressly cover owned and non-owned
Equipment, including motor vehicles (if applicable), while in your care, custody and control. Customer shall cary workers compensation and employers’ liability insurance with at least a per occurrence limit of $1 million. Customer
shall name Herc as an additional insured for all claims arising out of the maintenance, operation or use of the equipment, and as an additional loss payee. Any deductibles or self-insured retentions shall be the sole responsibility of
the Customer. All insurance required by this Rental Agreement shall include a waiver of rights of recovery against Herc or its insurers by the Customer and its insurers, as well as a waiver of subrogation against Herc or its insurers
The policies required hereunder shall provide that Herc must receive not less than 30 days’ notice prior to any cancellation. Customer shall provide Here with documented proof of all required insurance coverage,

including copies of all applicable additional insured endorsements. FOR RENTAL OF EQUIPMENT NOT LICENSED FOR ROAD USE, CUSTOMER MUST EITHER (i) ELECT TO NAME HERC AS LOSS PAYEE EVIDENCING
PROPERTY INSURANCE COVERAGE, OR (ii) ELECT TO PURCHASE THE RENTAL PROTECTION PLAN. Nothing contained in this insurance Section shall limit or modify the obligations set forth in Section 9

9. INDEMNIFICATION. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, AND FOR AND IN ADDITIONAL CONSIDERATION OF PROVIDING THE EQUIPMENT HEREIN, CUSTOMER WILL DEFEND, INDEMNIFY AND HOLD.
HARMLESS HERC, ITS PARENT COMPANY, THEIR AFFILIATES, AND THEIR RESPECTIVE DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES (COLLECTIVELY "HERC INDEMNIFIED PARTIES"), FROM AND AGAINST
ANY AND ALL ACTUAL, ALLEGED, POTENTIAL OR PERCEIVED RISKS OF INJURY, DEMANDS, CLAIMS, SUITS, LIABILITIES, LOSSES, SETTLEMENTS, JUDGMENTS, DAMAGES (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
COSTS, EXPENSES, DELAYS, DEDUCTIBLE AMOUNTS OF INSURANCE, THE COSTS OF ENFORCING ANY RIGHT TO INDEMNIFICATION UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, THE COST OF PURSUING ANY INSURANCE
PROVIDERS, AND LIQUIDATED, CONSEQUENTIAL AND PUNITIVE DAMAGES), ENVIRONMENTAL SPILLS, ATTORNEYS! FEES AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION COSTS, WHETHER OR NOT SUCH LOSSES, LIABILITIES,
CLAIMS OR DAMAGES ARE BASED, IN WHOLE ORIN PART UPON ANY OF THE HERC INDEMNIFIED PARTIES’ ALLEGED NEGLIGENCE OR PARTICIPATION IN THE WRONG OR UPON ANY ALLEGED BREACH OF A
STATUTORY OR REGULATORY DUTY OR OBLIGATION ON THEIR PART, ARISEN OUT OF OR ALLEGED TO HAVE ARISING OUT OF ANY ACT OR OMISSION IN CONNECTION WITH THE CUSTOMER’S MAINTENANCE,
USE, POSSESSION, OPERATION, ERECTION, DISMANTLING, SERVICING OR TRANSPORTATION OF THE EQUIPMENT OR MOTOR VEHICLE OR CUSTOMER'S FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THE TERMS OF THIS
AGREEMENT,BY REASON OF BODILY INJURY, INCLUDING DEATH, AND PROPERTY DAMAGE, SUSTAINED BY ANY PERSON OR PERSONS, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO EMPLOYEES OF CUSTOMER
CUSTOMER WILL, AT ITS SOLE EXPENSE, COMPLY WITH ALL FEDERAL, STATE AND LOCAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS AFFECTING THE EQUIPMENT AND ITS USE, OPERATION, ERECTION, DESIGN AND
TRANSPORTATION, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, LICENSING AND BUILDING CODE REQUIREMENTS, AND WILL DEFEND, INDEMNIFY AND HOLD HERC INDEMNIFIED PARTIES HARMLESS FROM ALL LOSS,
UABILITY OR EXPENSE RESULTING FROM ACTUAL OR ALLEGED VIOLATIONS OF ANY SUCH LAWS, REGULATIONS OR REQUIREMENTS. The foregoing indemnification provisions will not reduce or affect the other rights
or obligations which would otherwise exist in favor of the Herc Indemnified Parties. Any insurance requirements set forth in this Agreernent or any Agreement will not limit foregoing indemnification

10. NOTICE OF LOSS OR ACCIDENT. In the event of an accident, loss of, theft of, or darnage to, spill or leak of hazardous materials from, the Equipment, Customer agrees to notify Herc as soon as possible by telephone
and, thereafter, to immediately report in writing to Herc and to the public authorities (where required by law or by Herc) all necessary information relating to the loss or accident.

11. CONDITION OF THE EQUIPMENT. Customer acknowledges having examined the Equipment upon its delivery to Customer. The Equipment shall be deemed to be accepted by Customer upon delivery and subject to the terms
and conditions of this Agreement. Customer shall notify Herc in writing within 24 hours of delivery of the Equipment of any problem with the Equipment. If the Equipment is found by Customer not to be in good mechanical condition,
as a result of conditions not the responsibility of Customer, nor caused by the fault or negligence of Customer or Customer's employees or agents, Customer will so notify Herc, whereupon Herc will then, at its option and without
any other liability or responsibility by Herc to Customer: (a) repair or suitably replace the Equipment within a reasonable time during Herc’s normal working hours, with the commencement or running of the terms of this Agreement to
be tolled for the period the Equipment is "dawn", or (b) remove the Equipment and terminate this Agreement and refund payments of rental charges, if any, for the unexpired term of the Agreement, less whatever is due Herc for
damage to or maintenance of Equipment which is the responsibility of Customer. Customer agrees to provide full access to the Equipment to Herc’s representatives to enable Herc to meet its responsibilities hereunder.

12. LATE PAYMENT FEE. Should Customer fail to pay any invoice to Herc in accordance with the terms of such invoice, Customer will pay a late payment fee to Herc on such delinquent payment until fully paid, at an amount up
to the maximum rate allowed by the laws of the jurisdiction in which the Herc location specified on the Front is located

13. FUELING SERVICE CHARGE. Herc agrees to provide the Equipment to Customer with full fuel tanks. Customer agrees to retum the Equipment with full fuel tanks). If Customer retums the Equipment with the fuel tank(s) less
than full, Customer will pay to Herc a sum equal to Herc’s then applicable refueling service charge posted at Herc’s location where the Equipment is retumed for the number of gallons required to refill the tank(s) at the time of
retum

14. MERGER/MODIFICATION/SEVERABILITY. This Agreement expresses the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof. No modification or alteration of the terms hereof will be effective as
against Herc unless same is in writing and signed by a duly authorized officer of Herc. Customer's use and/or delivery of the Equipment and/or Customer's signing of this Agreement shall be deemed execution of this Agreement
and shall constitute Customer's acceptance of all of the Terms contained on the Front hereof and herein, and the exclusion of any terms and conditions otherwise stated by Customer or contained in any of Custorner's documents.
The paragraph headings contained in this Agreement are for convenience only and will not be used to expand or limit the actual terns and conditions hereof. Customer and the person signing this Agreement represent that: (a)
they both have full authority to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement; and (b) this Agreement is a legal, valid and binding obligation of Customer, enforceable in accordance with its terms

15. GOVERNING LAWHJURISDICTIONJURY TRIAL WAIVER/LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. This Agreement shall be govemed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the state of Delaware without regard to its rules of
conflict of laws. Customer irrevocably and unconditionally consents to submit to the jurisdiction of the state and federal courts within the State of Delaware (the "Delaware Courts") or Florida ("Florida Courts") for any litigation arising
out of or relating to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, and waives any objection to the laying of venue and forum in the Delaware Courts and/or the Florida Courts. If any prowsion, or any part of any provision
of this Agreement or the application thereof is thereafter held invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby and to this end the provisions of this Agreement are declared severable. Each
party hereby waives and releases all right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim brought by either party hereto against the other (and/or against its officers, directors, employees, agents, or subsidiary or affiliated
entities) on any matters whatsoever arising out of or in any way connected with this Agreement. THE MAXIMUM LIABILITY OF HERC, ITS OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS OR AFFILIATES UNDER THIS
AGREEMENT (REGARDLESS OF WHETHER A CLAIM IS BASED UPON WARRANTY, CONTRACT, TORT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) SHALL NOT EXCEED THE AMOUNT PAID TO HERC BY CUSTOMER UNDER

THIS AGREEMENT

16. ELECTRONIC SIGNATURES. Customer agrees that this Agreement may be signed manually or by scanning and sending .pdf or other copies thereof via email or via any other electronic means and in one or more counterparts,
each of which shall be (i) an original, and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement, (ii) a valid and binding agreement and fully admissible under state and federal rules of evidence; and (ili) enforceable
under the applicable Uniform Commercial Code Section 24-204, Section 3-309 and under any other similar statute applicable to this Agreement

17. FAMILIARIZATION. All familiarization requests must be made in writing not less than five (5) calendar days before scheduled delivery date or at time of purchase. Request(s) must be submitted to the location in which the
Equipment was rented and identify the name of the person(s) designated to receive the Equipment. If requested, the User as defined by ANSI A92/CSA B354 agrees to have the person designated present at the time of delivery to
receive the equipment familiarization. Familiarization will be made in accordance ta ANSI A92 & CSA 8364. Familiarization is not considered training or certification and does not impact the obligations of Section 2

U.S. RA 03-30-23

71 of 302


--- page 72 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2011
File ID: 24-8571
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
April 15, 2024 
SUBJECT:
2024 Annual Investment Policy – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the City of San Mateo 2024 Investment Policy
BACKGROUND:
The investment of funds by a California local agency, including the types of securities in which an agency may invest, is 
governed by the California Government Code (Sections 53000-53610). The City’s Investment Policy may be more 
restrictive than the Government Code; however, it may not be more permissive. Formal investment policies by local 
agencies are not required by law, but they are considered a best practice to provide guidelines for investing City funds in 
accordance with the Government Code. The City’s practice is to have the City Council review and approve the policy 
annually regardless of whether or not there are recommended changes. 
The changes to the 2024 Investment Policy are mainly language cleanup to reflect mandates from Senate Bill 1489, which 
prohibits forward settlement time for trades from exceeding 45 days.  Accordingly, the City's Investment Policy, included in 
Att 2, was updated to ensure compliance with the updated legislation. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Approval of the proposed changes to the City's Investment Policy for 2024 will not have a budgetary impact.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This 2024 Investment Policy is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - 2024 Investment Police Track Changes
STAFF CONTACT
Karen Huang, Finance Director
khuang@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7110
72 of 302

--- page 73 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ___ (2024)
ADOPTING THE INVESTMENT POLICY FOR THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
WHEREAS, investment policies guide staff and their advisors for all investment activities on 
behalf of cities; and
WHEREAS, those investment activities are primarily governed by the individual city’s adopted 
investment policies and by California state law (Government Code sections 53600-53610); and
WHEREAS, the Investment Policy for the City of San Mateo is consistent with state law and, for 
the purpose of added safety and liquidity, is more restrictive than state law; and
WHEREAS, Government Code section 53646 requires annual review and approval of a city’s 
investment policy only if there are changes, however it encourages cities to conduct an annual review 
and approval process even if there are no proposed changes; and
WHEREAS, recognizing the importance of the City’s Investment Policy, staff proposes to 
continue the annual Council review and approval process even if there are no proposed changes; and
WHEREAS, the Investment Advisory Committee concurs with staff’s recommendation to adopt 
the 2024 Investment Policy;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE SAN MATEO CITY COUNCIL HEREBY RESOLVES that:
1.
In accordance with California Quality Act Guidelines section 15378(b)(5), this activity is 
not a project subject to CEQA in that it can be seen with certainty that it won’t have a significant 
impact on the environment.
2.
The 2024 Investment Policy for the City is hereby adopted.
73 of 302

--- page 74 ---
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO 
AND CITY OF SAN MATEO, ACTING AS SUCCESSOR AGENCY TO THE REDEVELOPMENT 
AGENCY OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
I. 
SCOPE AND AUTHORITY 
In accordance with the Charter of the City of San Mateo, (the “City”), the Finance Director/City 
Treasurer is responsible for investing the unexpended cash of the City and the Successor Agency to 
the Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Mateo (the “Successor Agency”) in the City 
Treasury. The authority governing investments for local agencies is set forth in the California 
Government Code Sections 41006 and 53600 et. seq. 
 
This Investment Policy (the “Policy”) applies to all the investment activities of the City and the 
Successor Agency. The Policy will also apply to all other funds under the Finance Director/City 
Treasurer’s span of control unless specifically exempted by statute or ordinance. All the invested 
financial assets are accounted for in the City’s fund accounting system which includes: General 
Fund, Special Revenue Funds, Capital Project Funds, Enterprise Funds, Debt Service Funds, 
Internal Service Funds, and Successor Agency Funds. 
 
All cash shall be pooled for investment purposes. The investment income derived from the pooled 
investment account shall be allocated to the contributing funds based upon the proportion of the 
respective average balances relative to the total pooled balance. Investment income shall be 
distributed to the individual funds not less than annually. 
 
II. 
OBJECTIVES 
City and Successor Agency funds shall be invested in accordance with all applicable City policies 
and codes, State statutes, and Federal regulations, and in a manner designed to accomplish the 
following objectives, which are listed in priority order: 
 
A. 
Safety of principal 
 
Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the investment program. Investments will be 
undertaken in a manner that seeks to ensure the preservation of capital in the overall 
portfolio. To attain this objective, the City will diversify its investments by investing funds 
among a variety of securities with independent returns. 
 
B. 
Liquidity Standard 
 
The investment portfolio will remain sufficiently liquid to meet all operating requirements 
that may be reasonably anticipated.  
 
 
20232024 
INVESTMENT POLICY 
74 of 302

--- page 75 ---
C. 
Return on investment 
 
The City’s investment portfolio shall be structured to attain a market-average rate of return 
through economic cycles, taking into account the investment risk constraints for safety and 
liquidity needs. 
 
III. 
DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY 
Authority to manage the City’s investment program is derived from California Government Code, 
Sections 41006 and 53600 et seq. 
 
The City Council is responsible for the management of the City’s funds, including the administration 
of this investment policy. Management responsibility for the cash management of the City’s funds 
is hereby delegated to the Finance Director/City Treasurer (or his/her designee), who is appointed 
by the City Manager in accordance with the City Charter.  Staff members of the Finance 
Department’s Treasury Division may be assigned to perform the day-to-day treasury activities 
related to the investment of City funds. No person may engage in an investment transaction except 
as expressly provided under the terms of this Policy. 
 
The City may utilize the services of an investment adviser registered under the Investment Advisers 
Act of 1940, so long as it can be demonstrated that these services produce a net financial advantage 
or necessary financial protection of the City’s financial resources. The adviser shall follow this 
Policy and such other written instructions as provided. Use of professional investment advisers is 
subject to City review and overriding discretion which will be exercised as needed. External 
investment advisers may be granted discretion to purchase and sell investment securities in 
accordance with this investment policy. 
 
The City’s overall investment program shall be designed and managed with a degree of 
professionalism that is worthy of the public trust. The City recognizes that in a diversified portfolio, 
occasional measured losses may be inevitable and must be considered within the context of the 
overall portfolio’s return and the cash flow requirements of the City. 
 
IV. 
INTERNAL CONTROLS 
The Finance Director/City Treasurer has established a system of internal controls to ensure 
compliance with the investment policies and procedures of the City, the Successor Agency, and the 
California Government Code. Such controls shall be designed to prevent losses of public funds 
arising from fraud, employee error, and misrepresentation by third parties, or imprudent actions by 
employees of the City. Investment decisions are made by the Finance Director/City Treasurer or 
his/her designee and executed by staff of the Finance Department’s Treasury Division. All wire 
transfers initiated by Finance Department staff members must be approved and transmitted by the 
Finance Director/City Treasurer or his/her designee. Proper documentation obtained from 
confirmation and cash disbursement wire transfers is required for each investment transaction. 
Timely bank reconciliation is conducted to ensure proper handling of all transactions. 
 
The investment portfolio and all related transactions are reviewed and balanced to appropriate 
general ledger accounts by senior finance staff on a monthly basis. An independent analysis by an 
external auditor shall be conducted annually to review and perform procedure testing on the City’s 
cash and investments. The Finance Director/City Treasurer shall review and assure compliance with 
investment processes and procedures. 
 
 
75 of 302

--- page 76 ---
V. 
ETHICS AND CONFLICT OF INTEREST 
In accordance with California Government Code Sections 1090 et seq. and 87100 et seq., officers 
and employees of the City will refrain from any activity that could conflict with the proper execution 
of the investment program or which could impair their ability to make impartial investment 
decisions, and all investment personnel shall subordinate their personal investment transactions to 
those of the City. In addition, City Council members, the City Manager, and Finance Director/City 
Treasurer, shall comply with the reporting requirements of California Government Code Section 
87203 and regulations of the Fair Political Practices Commission and file a Statement of Economic 
Interest annually. 
 
VI. 
PRUDENT INVESTOR STANDARD 
The standard of prudence to be used for managing the City’s investments shall be California 
Government Code Section 53600.3, the prudent investor standard, which states that “When 
investing, reinvesting, purchasing, acquiring, exchanging, selling, or managing public funds, a 
trustee shall act with care, skill, prudence, and diligence under the circumstances then prevailing, 
including, but not limited to, the general economic conditions and the anticipated needs of the 
agency, that a prudent person acting in a like capacity and familiarity with those matters would use 
in the conduct of funds of a like character and with like aims, to safeguard the principal and maintain 
the liquidity needs of the agency. Within the limitations of this section and considering individual 
investments as part of an overall strategy, investments may be acquired as authorized by law.” 
 
The City recognizes that market prices of securities will vary depending on economic and interest 
rate conditions at any point in time. It is further recognized, that in a well-diversified investment 
portfolio, occasional measured losses may occur due to economic, bond market, or individual 
security credit events. These occasional declines in value must be considered within the context of 
the overall investment program objectives and the resultant long-term rate of return. 
 
The Finance Director/City Treasurer and other individuals assigned to manage the investment 
portfolio, acting within the intent and scope of this Policy and other written procedures and 
exercising due diligence, shall be relieved of personal responsibility and liability for an individual 
security’s credit risk or market price changes, provided deviations from expectations are reported 
in a timely manner and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments. 
 
VII. 
AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS 
All investments and deposits of the City shall be made in accordance with California Government 
Code Sections 16429.1, 53600-53609, and 53630-53686. Within the investments permitted by the 
Code, the City seeks to further restrict eligible investments to the guidelines listed below. In the 
event a discrepancy is found between this policy and the Code, the more restrictive parameters will 
take precedence. Percentage holding limits and minimum credit quality listed in this section apply 
at the time the security is purchased.  
 
Any investment currently held at the time the policy is adopted which does not meet the new policy 
guidelines can be held until maturity, and shall be exempt from the current policy. At the time of 
the investment’s maturity or liquidation, such funds shall be reinvested only as provided in the 
current policy.  
 
An appropriate risk level shall be maintained by primarily purchasing securities that are of high 
quality, liquid, and marketable. The portfolio shall be diversified by security type and institution to 
avoid incurring unreasonable and avoidable risks regarding specific security types or individual 
issuers. The authorized investments are described below. 
 
A. 
United States Treasury notes, bonds, bills, or certificates of indebtedness, or those for which 
the full faith and credit of the United States are pledged for the payment of principal and 
76 of 302

--- page 77 ---
interest. There is no limitation on the percentage of the portfolio that can be invested in this 
category. The maximum maturity shall not exceed five years. 
 
B. 
Federal agency or United States government-sponsored enterprise (“GSE”) obligations, 
participations, or other instruments, including those issued by or fully guaranteed as to 
principal and interest by federal agencies or United States government-sponsored enterprises. 
The aggregate investment in federal agency securities/GSEs shall not exceed 70 percent of 
the City’s total portfolio, and the securities of any one federal agency/GSE shall not exceed 
40 percent of the City’s total portfolio. The maximum percent of agency callable securities in 
the portfolio will be 20 percent. The maximum maturity shall not exceed five years. 
 
C. 
A mortgage passthrough security, collateralized mortgage obligation, mortgage-backed or 
other pay-through bond, equipment lease-backed certificate, consumer receivable passthrough 
certificate, or consumer receivable-backed bond not defined in paragraphs A or B of the 
Authorized Investments section of this policy. Securities eligible for investment under this 
subdivision shall be rated in a rating category of “AA” or its equivalent or better by an NRSRO 
and have a maximum remaining maturity of five years or less. No more than 5 percent of the 
City’s total portfolio shall be invested in any one issuer. Purchase of securities authorized by 
this subdivision shall not exceed 20 percent of the City’s total portfolio. 
 
D. 
Medium-Term Notes issued by corporations organized and operating within the United States 
or by depository institutions licensed by the United States or any state and operating within 
the United States and rated in a rating category of “A” or the equivalent or better by a 
Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization(NRSRO). The aggregate investment 
in medium-term notes shall not exceed 30 percent of the City’s total portfolio, and no more 
than 5 percent of the City’s total portfolio shall be invested in the medium-term notes of any 
one issuer. The maximum maturity shall not exceed five years. 
 
E. 
Non-negotiable Certificates of Deposit with a maturity not exceeding three years from the 
date of trade settlement, in state- or nationally-chartered banks or savings banks that are 
insured by the FDIC, subject to the limitations of California Government Code Section 
53638. Amounts in excess of FDIC insurance coverage shall be secured in accordance with 
California Government Code Section 53652. No more than 5 percent of the City’s total 
portfolio shall be invested in the deposits of any one bank. The aggregate investment in non-
negotiable certificates of deposit shall not exceed 30 percent of the City’s total portfolio. The 
maximum maturity shall not exceed three years. 
 
F. 
“Prime” commercial paper with a maturity not exceeding 270 days from the date of trade 
settlement with the highest ranking or of the highest letter and number rating as provided for 
by an NRSRO. The entity that issues the commercial paper shall meet all of the following 
conditions in either sub-paragraph A. or sub-paragraph B. below: 
 
1) The entity shall (1) be organized and operating in the United States as a general 
corporation, (2) have total assets in excess of $500,000,000 and (3) have debt other 
than commercial paper, if any, that is rated in a rating category of “A” or the 
equivalent or better by an NRSRO. 
 
2) The entity shall (1) be organized within the United States as a special purpose 
corporation, trust, or limited liability company, (2) have program-wide credit 
enhancements, including, but not limited to, overcollateralization, letters of credit or 
surety bond; and (3) have commercial paper that is rated at least “A-1” or the 
equivalent by an NRSRO. 
 
77 of 302

--- page 78 ---
The City may purchase no more than 10 percent of the outstanding commercial paper of any 
one issuer, and the aggregate investment in commercial paper shall not exceed 25 percent of 
the City’s total portfolio. Under a provision sunsetting on January 1, 2026, no more than 40% 
of the portfolio may be invested in Commercial Paper if the Agency’s investment assets under 
management are greater than $100,000,000. Further, no more than 5 percent of the City’s 
total portfolio shall be invested in the commercial paper of any one issuer. 
 
G. 
Eligible Banker’s Acceptances with a maturity not exceeding 180 days from the date of trade 
settlement, rated at least “A-1” or the equivalent or better by an NRSRO, drawn on or 
accepted by a commercial bank, whose deposits are insured by the FDIC, and whose senior 
long-term debt is rated in a rating category of “A” or the equivalent or better by an NRSRO 
at the time of purchase. No more than 5 percent of the City’s total portfolio shall be invested 
in banker’s acceptances of any one issuer, and the aggregate investment in banker’s 
acceptances shall not exceed 40 percent of the City’s total portfolio. 
 
H. 
Repurchase Agreements with a final termination date not exceeding 90 days collateralized by 
obligations of the U.S. Treasury, federal agencies and/or government-sponsored enterprises 
(described in sections VII.A and VII.C above). For the purpose of this section, the term 
collateral shall mean purchased securities under the terms of the City’s approved Master 
Repurchase Agreement. The purchased securities shall have a minimum market value 
including accrued interest of 102 percent of the dollar value of the funds borrowed. All 
collateral must be delivered to the City’s custodian bank by book entry, physical delivery, or 
by a third- party custodial agreement. The market value of the collateral securities shall be 
marked-to- the-market at least quarterly, and the value of the underlying collateral must be 
brought back up to 102 percent no later than the next business day. Market value must be 
calculated each time there is a substitution of collateral. No more than 10 percent of the City’s 
total portfolio shall be invested in repurchase agreements with any one counterparty, and the 
aggregate investment in repurchase agreements shall not exceed 10 percent of the City’s total 
portfolio. 
 
The City or its custodian shall have a perfected first security interest under the Uniform 
Commercial Code in all securities subject to Repurchase Agreement. 
 
The City may enter into Repurchase Agreements only with primary dealers of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York. Approved Repurchase Agreement counterparties shall have a 
short-term credit rating of at least “A-1”, or the equivalent or better, and a long-term credit 
rating in the rating category of “A”, or the equivalent or better, by a NRSRO. Repurchase 
agreement counterparties shall execute a City-approved Master Repurchase Agreement with 
the City. The Finance Director/City Treasurer shall maintain a copy of the City’s approved 
Master Repurchase Agreement along with a list of broker/dealers who have executed this 
agreement. 
 
Reverse repurchase agreements will not be permitted. 
 
I. 
LOCAL AGENCY INVESTMENT FUND. The City may invest in the Local Agency 
Investment Fund (LAIF) established by the State Treasurer (per Government Code Section 
16429.1) for the benefit of local agencies up to the maximum amount permitted by LAIF. 
 
J. 
SAN MATEO COUNTY POOL. The City may invest in the San Mateo County Pool 
established by the San Mateo County Treasurer for the benefit of local agencies (as 
established in California Code Section 53684). No more than 30 percent of the market value 
of the City’s total portfolio may be invested in this category. 
 
78 of 302

--- page 79 ---
K. 
CALIFORNIA ASSET MANAGEMENT PROGRAM. The City may invest in the California 
Asset Management Program (CAMP) a California Joint Powers Authority established to 
provide California public agencies with professional investment services (California Code 
Section 53601 (p)). No more than 30 percent of the market value of the City’s total portfolio 
may be invested in this category. 
 
L. 
Shares of beneficial interest issued by a diversified management company that are money 
market funds registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment 
Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. Sec. 80a-1 et seq.). Provided that the money market funds 
are “no-load” (no commission or fee shall be charged on purchases or sales of shares); (2) have a 
constant daily net asset value per share of $1.00; (3) have a rating of “AAA” or the equivalent by 
at least two NRSROs or have retained an investment adviser registered or exempt from 
registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission with not less than five years’ 
experience managing money market mutual funds with assets under management in excess of five 
hundred million dollars ($500,000,000). No more than 10 percent of the City’s total portfolio 
shall be invested in any one issuer and the aggregate investment in money market funds shall not 
exceed 20 percent of the City’s total portfolio. 
 
M. 
Obligations of the State of California or any local agency within the state, including bonds 
payable solely out of revenues from a revenue-producing property owned, controlled, or 
operated by the state or any local agency or by a department, board, agency, or authority of 
the state or any local agency. 
 
Registered treasury notes or bonds of any of the other 49 states in addition to California, 
including bonds payable solely out of the revenues from a revenue-producing property owned, 
controlled, or operated by a state or by a department, board, agency, or authority of any of the 
other 49 states, in addition to California. 
 
Securities in this section must have a short-term rating of “A-1” or the equivalent or better by 
an NRSRO or a long-term rating in the category of “A” or the equivalent or better by an 
NRSRO. No more than 5 percent of the City’s total portfolio shall be invested in any one 
municipal issuer, and the aggregate investment in municipal bonds shall not exceed 20 percent 
of the City’s total portfolio. The maximum maturity shall not exceed five years. 
 
N. 
Negotiable certificates of deposit or deposit notes issued by a nationally- or state-chartered 
bank, a savings association or a federal association (as defined by Section 5102 of the 
Financial Code), a state or federal credit union, or by a federally-licensed or by a state- 
licensed branch of a foreign bank. Eligible negotiable certificates of deposit in amounts up to 
the FDIC insured limit do not require any credit ratings. Amounts above the FDIC insured 
limit must be issued by institutions which have long-term obligations rated in a rating category 
of “A” or its equivalent or better by at least one NRSRO, or have short-term obligations rated 
“A-1” or its equivalent, or higher by an NRSRO. No more than 5 percent of the City’s total 
portfolio shall be invested in the negotiable certificates of deposit of any one issuer, and the 
aggregate investment in negotiable certificates of deposit shall not exceed 30 percent of the 
City’s total portfolio. The maximum maturity shall not exceed five years. 
 
O. 
United States dollar denominated senior unsecured unsubordinated obligations issued or 
unconditionally guaranteed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 
International Finance Corporation, or Inter-American Development Bank, with a maximum 
remaining maturity of five years or less, and eligible for purchase and sale within the United 
States. Investments under this subdivision shall be rated in a rating category of “AA” or its 
equivalent or better by an NRSRO and shall not exceed 30 percent of the City’s moneys that 
79 of 302

--- page 80 ---
may be invested pursuant to this section. No more than 10 percent of the portfolio may be 
invested in one single issuer. 
 
 
P. 
Collateralized bank deposits that are the City’s deposits with financial institutions. Bank 
deposits will be collateralized with pledged securities per California Government Code, 
Section 53651. There are no limits on the dollar amount or percentage that the City may invest 
in collateralized bank deposits. 
 
The foregoing list of authorized securities and transactions shall be strictly interpreted. Any 
deviation from this list must be approved in advance by resolution of the City Council. 
 
NOTE 1: References throughout this document to “the City’s total portfolio” will be the market 
value of the portfolio at the time the specific security is purchased. 
 
VIII. 
PROHIBITED INVESTMENT VEHICLES AND PRACTICES 
State law notwithstanding, any investments not specifically described herein are prohibited, 
including, but not limited to futures and options. In accordance with Government Code, Section 
53601.6, investment in inverse floaters, range notes, or mortgage derived interest-only strips is 
prohibited. Investment in any security that could result in a zero interest accrual if held to maturity 
is prohibited. Under a provision sunsetting on January 1, 2026, securities backed by the U.S. 
Government that could result in a zero- or negative-interest accrual if held to maturity are permitted. 
Trading securities for the sole purpose of speculating on the future direction of interest rates is 
prohibited. Purchasing or selling securities on margin is prohibited. The use of reverse repurchase 
agreements, securities lending or any other form of borrowing or leverage is prohibited. The 
purchase of foreign currency denominated securities is prohibited. Local governments that are not 
Qualified Institutional Buyers (QIB) as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission are 
prohibited from purchasing Private Placement Securities.  The SEC defines a QIB as having at least 
$100,000,000 in securities owned and invested. The purchase of a security with a forward settlement 
date exceeding 45 days from the time of the investment is prohibited. 
 
In the event all general objectives mandated by state law and set forth in Section III above are met 
and created equal, investments in corporate securities and depository institutions will be evaluated 
for social and environmental concerns. Investments are prohibited in entities that receive a 
significant portion of their revenues from the manufacture of tobacco products, fossil fuels, firearms, 
or weapons not used in our national defense. 
IX. 
INVESTMENT POOLS/MUTUAL FUNDS 
The City shall conduct a thorough investigation of any pool or mutual fund prior to making an 
investment, and on a continual basis thereafter.  The Finance Director/Treasurer shall develop a 
questionnaire which will answer the following general questions: 
 
A description of eligible investment securities, and a written statement of investment policy 
and objectives. 
 
A description of interest calculations and how it is distributed, and how gains and losses are 
treated. 
 
A description of how the securities are safeguarded (including the settlement processes), 
and how often the securities are priced and the program audited. 
 
A description of who may invest in the program, how often, what size deposit and 
withdrawal are allowed. 
 
A schedule for receiving statements and portfolio listings. 
 
Are reserves, retained earnings, etc. utilized by the pool/fund? 
 
A fee schedule, and when and how is it assessed. 
 
Is the pool/fund eligible for bond proceeds and/or will it accept such proceeds?  
80 of 302

--- page 81 ---
X. 
SELECTION OF BROKER/DEALERS 
The Finance Director/City Treasurer shall maintain a list of broker/dealers approved for investment 
purposes, and it shall be the policy of the City to conduct transactions only with those authorized 
firms. To be eligible, a firm must be licensed by the State of California as a broker/dealer as defined 
in Section 25004 of the California Corporations Code, and: 
1. 
Be recognized as a Primary Dealer by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or 
2. 
Report voluntarily to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or 
3. 
Qualify under Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rule 15c3-1 (Uniform Net Capital 
Rule). 
 
Each authorized broker/dealer shall be required to submit and annually update a City approved 
Broker/Dealer Information form. The Finance Director/City Treasurer shall maintain a list of the 
broker/dealers that have been approved by the City, along with each firm’s most recent 
Broker/Dealer Information Request form. 
 
If the City has not engaged the support services of an outside investment advisor while in the process 
of executing a particular transaction, the authorized broker/dealer(s) shall provide certification of 
having received and reviewed this Policy. For transactions initiated through an investment advisor, 
the investment advisor may use their own list of approved broker/dealers and financial institutions, 
which it will maintain and review periodically. 
 
The City may purchase commercial paper from direct issuers even though they are not on the 
approved broker/dealer list as long as they meet the criteria outlined in Item F of the Authorized 
Investments section of this Policy. 
 
XI. 
COMPETITIVE TRANSACTIONS 
Each investment transaction shall be competitively transacted with authorized broker/dealers. At 
least three broker/dealers shall be contacted for each transaction, and their bid and offering prices 
shall be recorded. 
If the City is offered a security for which there is no other readily available competitive offering, 
then the Finance Director/City Treasurer will document quotations for comparable or alternative 
securities. When purchasing original issue instrumentality securities, no competitive offerings will 
be required as all dealers in the selling group offer those securities at the same original issue price. 
 
XII. 
SELECTION OF BANKS 
The Finance Director/City Treasurer shall maintain a list of banks approved to provide depository 
and other banking services for the City. To be eligible for authorization, a bank shall qualify as a 
depository of public funds in the State of California as defined in California Government Code 
Section 53630.5, shall be a member of the FDIC, and shall secure all deposits exceeding FDIC 
insurance coverage in accordance with California Government Code Section 53652. 
 
XIII. 
SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY 
The Finance Director/City Treasurer shall select a bank to provide safekeeping and custodial 
services for the City, in accordance with the provisions of Section 53608 of the California 
Government Code. A City-approved Safekeeping Agreement shall be executed with the custodian 
bank prior to utilizing that bank’s safekeeping services. The custodian bank will be selected on the 
basis of its ability to provide satisfactory safekeeping services and the competitive pricing of them. 
 
The purchase and sale of securities and repurchase agreement transactions shall be settled on a 
delivery-versus-payment basis. All securities shall be perfected in the name of the City. Sufficient 
evidence to title shall be consistent with modern investment, banking, and commercial practices. 
 
All investment securities will be delivered by either book entry or physical delivery and will be held 
81 of 302

--- page 82 ---
by the City’s custodian bank, its correspondent bank or its Depository Trust Company (DTC) 
participant account. 
 
XIV. 
MAXIMUM MATURITY 
To the extent possible, investments shall be matched with anticipated cash flow requirements and 
known future liabilities.  
 
The City will not invest in securities maturing more than five (5) years from the date of trade 
settlement, unless the City Council has by resolution granted authority to make such an investment, 
either specifically or as a part of an investment program approved by the City Council no less than 
three months prior to the investment. 
 
XV. 
RISK MANAGEMENT AND DIVERSIFICATION 
 
Mitigating Credit Risk in the Portfolio  
Credit risk is the risk that a security or a portfolio will lose some or all its value due to a real or 
perceived change in the ability of the issuer to repay its debt. The City will mitigate credit risk by 
adopting the following strategies: 
 
 
The diversification requirements included in the “Authorized Investments” section of this 
policy are designed to mitigate credit risk in the portfolio. 
 
 
No more than 5 percent of the total portfolio may be deposited with or invested in securities 
issued by any single issuer unless otherwise specified in this policy. 
 
 
The City may elect to sell a security prior to its maturity and record a capital gain or loss in 
order to manage the quality, liquidity or yield of the portfolio in response to market 
conditions or City’s risk preferences. 
 
 
If the credit ratings of any security owned by the City are downgraded to a level below the 
quality required by this investment policy, it will be the City’s policy to review the credit 
situation and make a determination as to whether to sell or retain such securities in the 
portfolio. 
 
o If a security is downgraded, the Finance Director/City Treasurer will use discretion 
in determining whether to sell or hold the security based on its current maturity, the 
economic outlook for the issuer, and other relevant factors. 
 
o If a decision is made to retain a downgraded security in the portfolio, its presence in 
the portfolio will be monitored and reported monthly to the City Council. 
 
Mitigating Market Risk in the Portfolio  
Market risk is the risk that the portfolio value will fluctuate due to changes in the general level of 
interest rates. The City recognizes that, over time, longer-term portfolios have the potential to 
achieve higher returns. On the other hand, longer-term portfolios have higher volatility of return. 
The City will mitigate market risk by providing adequate liquidity for short-term cash needs, and 
by making longer-term investments only with funds that are not needed for current cash flow 
purposes. 
 
The City further recognizes that certain types of securities, including variable rate securities, 
securities with principal paydowns prior to maturity, and securities with embedded options, will 
affect the market risk profile of the portfolio differently in different interest rate environments. The 
City, therefore, adopts the following strategies to control and mitigate its exposure to market risk: 
82 of 302

--- page 83 ---
 
The City will maintain a minimum of six months of budgeted operating expenditures in 
short term investments to provide sufficient liquidity for expected disbursements. 
 
 
The maximum stated final maturity of individual securities in the portfolio will be five (5) 
years, except as otherwise stated in this policy. 
 
 
The duration of the portfolio will generally be approximately equal to the duration 
(typically, plus or minus 20 percent) of a Market Benchmark, an index selected by the City 
based on the City’s investment objectives, constraints, and risk tolerances. 
 
XVI. 
PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE 
The investment portfolio shall be designed to attain a market rate of return throughout budgetary 
and economic cycles, taking into account prevailing market conditions, risk constraints for eligible 
securities, and cash flow requirements. An appropriate benchmark or benchmarks will be 
established against which portfolio performance shall be compared on a regular basis. When 
comparing the performance of the City’s portfolio, its rate of return will be computed net of all fees 
and expenses. 
 
XVII. 
MONTHLY REPORTING 
Monthly, the Finance Director/City Treasurer shall submit to the City Council a report of the 
investment earnings and performance results of the City’s investment portfolio. The report shall 
include the following information: 
 
1. Investment type, issuer, date of purchase and maturity, par value and dollar amount invested in 
all securities, and investments and monies held by the City; 
2. A description of the funds, investments and programs; 
3. A market value as of the date of the report (or the most recent valuation as to assets not valued 
monthly) and the source of the valuation; 
4. A statement of compliance with this Policy or an explanation for non-compliance; and 
5. A statement of the City’s ability to meet expenditure requirements for six months, and an 
explanation of why money will not be available if that is the case. 
6. A statement of transactions made during the month. 
 
XVIII. INVESTMENT POLICY ADOPTION 
This Investment Policy shall be adopted by resolution of the City Council. The Policy shall be reviewed 
annually by the Investment Advisory Committee and any modifications made thereto must be approved 
by the City Council. 
83 of 302

--- page 84 ---
From:
Mason Fong
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Clerk
Subject:
Public Comment for 4/15/24 Council Agenda Items 7, 12 & 13
Date:
Monday, April 15, 2024 6:46:52 PM
Attachments:
Screen Shot 2024-04-15 at 6.35.22 PM.png
Screen Shot 2024-04-15 at 6.24.18 PM.png
Greetings Councilmembers,
Just wanted to share a few thoughts on the Council agenda tonight:
Item #7: Investment Policy
1. The State government code restricts investments in crypto currencies. However, the
State code does not restrict Cities from investing in convertible debt notes. From my
non-expert perspective of the State Code, the City may be able to theoretically contact a
company that is crypto-adjacent and make a deal to purchase a convertible debt note. 
Example: The City of San Mateo contacts the company Microstrategy (MSTR) and
requests to purchase a convertible debt note that would amortize much better than the
City's current investments (which only bring in around 3% revenue/year), capitalizing
on crypto market trends. Without explaining the complexities of Bitcoin and why it is a
good asset to time through this funding strategy, just simply look at
MSTR's performance over the past year (which admittedly is cyclical and volatile). A
special convertible debt note might be able to be agreed upon that produces a more
positive result/return than the City's current investment vehicles.
- I would recommend the Council inquire with City staff if a City could purchase a
convertible debt note from a private company. If so, then this might be of merit in
studying, especially to address the recurring structural deficit related to the VLF/ERAF
issue.
84 of 302

--- page 85 ---
Item #12: Capital Improvement Plan
1. Council should look at utilizing the City's Wastewater Treatment Facility as a revenue
source, making a deal with any other water provider to sell your excess water to them.
This is something I explored while working in the City of San Jose between the City of
San Jose and the Santa Clara Valley Water District and while as a Councilmember in
the City of Sunnyvale.
- I would recommend Council ask questions of City staff to see what plans the City has
to make water deals to generate revenue for the General Fund through the Wasterwater
Treatment Facility. If no plans at this time, this should be prioritized for further study.
2.  The Central Park Master Plan needs to incorporate the establishment of a permanent
dog park and a permanent basketball court. The current pilot dog park also needs more
resourcing in the form of a water station at the very least. We have baseball, softball,
tennis, pickleball but no basketball, this should be changed. I currently travel to Foster
City to play basketball with friends and have done so since growing up here.
- I would recommend Council motion to 1) add a water station to the current pilot dog
park & 2) direct City staff to return to Council at the next opportunity with a plan to
incorporate a permanent dog park at Central Park and a permanent Basketball Court.
Item #13: Budget
1. The City should look at Pension Obligation Bonds (POBs) as a mechanism to ease UAL
stresses on the budget and make smart investments that can pay off over time. The City
should consult with the City of San Jose's recent POB studies and hire consultants to
look at this as a solution to addressing the City's recurring structural deficits resulting
from the VLF/ERAF issue. If the State does not change the VLF/ERAF issue, the City
must get creative to ensure high quality public services don't get cut over time and that
city employees are protected in their pension outlooks. Here is the study session from
the City of San Jose in 2021.
- I recommend the Council ask about POBs and direct City staff to return to Council at
the next available time with a pro/con assessment of utilizing POBs either now or in the
future to meet unfunded liabilities.
Here is a slide from that study session of the potential positive impacts of POBs:
85 of 302

--- page 86 ---
Thank you for your consideration and for your public service.
-- 
Sincerely,
- Mason Fong
86 of 302

--- page 87 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2111
File ID: 24-8583
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Information Technology Department
MEETING DATE:
April 15, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Enterprise Resource Planning Software Project - Supplemental Budget Appropriation and Change Orders
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve a supplemental budget appropriation of $211,305 of unassigned fund balance from the 
Equipment Replacement Fund to increase the budget for the Enterprise Resource Planning Software Project; approve 
Change Order No. 7 to the master services agreement with Collaborative Solutions, LLC for ERP implementation services in 
the amount of $396,705, for a new agreement total of $4,539,370; approve Change Order No. 443997 to the master 
subscription agreement with Workday, Inc. for delivery assurance services in the amount of $24,600, for a new agreement 
total of $177,355; and authorize the City Manager to execute the Change Orders in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
In February 2022, the City Council awarded a contract to Collaborative Solutions, LLC in the amount of $2,527,160 as part 
of the enterprise resource planning (ERP) system replacement project (Project). Collaborative Solutions, LLC is now known 
as Cognizant. 
The ERP supports the City’s core administration functions of Human Capital Management (HCM), Payroll, and Core 
Financials. ERP implementation has occurred in phases. Phase 1 covered Core Financials, began in March 2022, and went 
live on November 1, 2022. Phase 2 began in October 2022 and covers HCM and Payroll. The Plan, Architect, and Configure 
Stages of Phase 2 have been completed, and project work is currently focused on the End-to-End Test Stage. When the 
End-to-End Test Stage is complete, the project will continue with Parallel testing, Deployment, and Post-Production 
Support. End-to-End testing is a critical time when HR and Payroll staff verify the system works as configured. Delays with 
End-to-End testing have resulted in the need for timeline extensions and Change Orders. 
End-to-End testing was originally scheduled for completion on August 18, 2023, but was extended by 26 weeks with the 
approval by Council of Change Orders No. 5 and No. 6 on September 18, 2023. This resulted in a new target Go-Live in June 
2024 and increased the Project budget by $780,580. However, in November 2023, it became clear that insufficient testing 
progress was occurring to meet the new Go-Live target. While Change Orders No. 5 and No. 6 extended the Project 
schedule and increased consultant resource commitments, they did not properly address the root causes of Project delays.
  
Approval of Change Order No.7 will extend the Project timeline an additional 26 weeks for a Go-Live in December 2024, 
concurrent with the first pay period of calendar year 2025.  It will require significantly less funding than prior Change 
Orders. Rather than extend time and money on the same trajectory, the project team will address Project deficiencies and 
remediate them through a Project re-plan.  This new approach will re-emphasize City staff doing the functional work, as is 
the best practice for Workday projects, rather than outsource that work to consultants to fill resource gaps.  This re-plan 
also includes new Cognizant project managers and leadership to provide more support and guidance for the Project.  
Additionally, the City’s Project Steering Committee formerly consisted of HR and Finance Directors who have since left City 
87 of 302

--- page 88 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
employment. These roles have been re-filled by the City’s new Finance Director, IT Director, and an Interim HR Director 
(recruitment for a permanent Director is underway).  The Project Steering Committee reports to the City Manager, who 
serves as the Project Sponsor.
Change Order No. 7 is a critical step in the Project re-plan. Change Order No.7 extends the timeline through December 
2024, but also takes a more efficient approach to the Project plan, work tasks, resources, and project execution. HR and 
Payroll staff are re-committed to the Project with full support of leadership. Project management flaws have been 
corrected, Project status is being closely monitored, and a clear escalation path is defined that goes directly to the City 
Manager. Change Order No. 7 increases project costs, but to a far lesser extent than previous change orders, and in a more 
tightly managed context where City subject matter experts and leadership are shouldering the appropriate burden, rather 
than paying for consultant resources to fill functional gaps. As reflected in Attachment 2 (Change Order No. 7), the 
additional scope cost is $370,705. Cognizant has provided a ‘project investment’ credit of $80,000, reducing that cost to 
$290,705. Recognizing the importance of organizational change management and training (OC&T), this change order also 
adds $106,000 on a time and materials basis to ensure successful system roll-out to the citywide user base. As reflected in 
Attachment 3 (Change Order No. 443997), the additional delivery assurance services from Workday for the extended 
period will cost $24,600. All told, the Project cost increase is $421,305, minus a $210,000 savings from City staff members 
performing the functional work rather than consultants, resulting in a net Project increase and new appropriation of 
$211,305.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The proposed resolution, included as Attachment 1, approves adding $211,305 supplemental budget appropriations for 
the ERP Project from unassigned fund balance of the Equipment Replacement Fund. This fund balance will be replenished 
over a 10-year period.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Approval of the change orders for ERP implementation support is not subject to CEQA review under the common sense 
exemption in it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the activity in question may have a significant 
effect on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061.) In addition, approval of a supplemental budget appropriation 
for the Project is not subject to CEQA review in that it consists of a governmental fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Change Order No. 7
Att 3 - Change Order No. 443997
STAFF CONTACT
Pete Owen, Director, Information Technology
powen@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7074
Karen Huang, Deputy Director
khuang@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7110
88 of 302

--- page 89 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2024)
APPROVING A SUPPLEMENTAL BUDGET APPROPRIATION IN THE AMOUNT OF $211,305 FROM THE 
UNASSIGNED FUND BALANCE OF THE EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT FUND TO THE CAPITAL BUDGET 
FOR THE ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING SOFTWARE PROJECT (Project No. 200001)
WHEREAS, the City Council awarded a master services agreement to Collaborative Solutions, LLC in 
February 2022 for enterprise resource planning (ERP) system implementation services; and
WHEREAS, additional time is required to complete End-to-End testing to ensure proper system 
functioning and to prevent payroll or benefits errors that may adversely impact employees at go-live; and
WHEREAS, an additional 26 weeks will provide Human Resources and Payroll more time to complete 
testing, develop training materials, deliver training to users, and deploy on a new go-live date of December 22, 
2024; and
WHEREAS, approval of the appropriation will enable the execution of Change Orders with Collaborative 
Solutions, LLC and Workday, Inc. to assist with ERP-related services during the additional 26 weeks.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, FINDS and RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This City Council action consisting of the adoption of a resolution approving a supplemental 
budget appropriation for the Enterprise Resource Planning Software Project is not subject to 
CEQA review, in that it consists of a governmental fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact 
on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
2.
A supplemental budget appropriation of $211,305, of unassigned fund balance from the 
Equipment Replacement Fund, to increase the budget for the Enterprise Resource Planning 
Software Project (Project No. 200001) by $211,305 is approved.
89 of 302

--- page 90 ---
> cognizant

Project Change Order #7



--- page 91 ---
2
Contents
Project change order.................................................................................................................................3
Summary.....................................................................................................................................................3
Request Description ..................................................................................................................................4
Business Purpose / Reason for Change ................................................................................................4
Impact Assessment ...................................................................................................................................5
Payment Terms..........................................................................................................................................6
Assumptions ...............................................................................................................................................6
Authorization...............................................................................................................................................7
 
91 of 302

--- page 92 ---
3
Project change order
This Change Order form is used for requesting, documenting and approving changes to the 
Workday deployment or other applicable service offering, including, but not limited to, changes 
to the project’s Scope, changes for a major configuration element, project timeline/schedule 
changes, integration specifications changes, addition of resources or any other deliverable 
change from the originally planned Workday deployment or applicable service offering. 
Summary
Client:
City of San Mateo
SOW/Project Name:
PROJ_54648/ City of San Mateo, CA – HCM/Pay - Phase 2
Change Order #:
C07
Project Manager (Client):
Pete Owen, Director of IT
Project Sponsor (Client):
Pete Owen, Director of IT
Engagement Manager:
Ken Clark Cognizant
Acceptance Due Date:
4/30/2024
Change Type:
Term Extension (additional hours added)
Impact Assessed by:
Jane Davis, Ken Clark, Neil Brosnan, Sarah Gardner, Rachel 
Taylor, Pete Owen, Jenifer Forsythe
Priority:
High
Billing:
Change #1: The project extension scope will be billed under 
current project.
Change #2: The OC&T scope of work to be billed separately 
under new T&M project.
Contract Line Type:
The project extension scope will be Fixed Fee.
The OC&T scope of work will be Time & Material
Is new PO# required?
No new PO# needed
92 of 302

--- page 93 ---
4
Request Description
Change #1: This Change Order extends the project timeline 26 weeks and set the anticipated Go-Live 
date to December 22, 2024. The Client has also decided to not move forward with Recruiting.  
Go-Live Push Items
Change Order Price
Extension of Resources for all Functional areas 
including the EM
$361,630.00
Removal of Recruiting. Decouple recruiting 
from the HCM business process (Hire, Job 
change & Add Additional Job BP).  Provide 
additional testing support related to regression 
testing the modified business processes. 
$9,075.00
Sub Total
$370,705.00
Cognizant Investment
$80,000.00
“Go-Live” Change Order Amount
$290,705.00
Change #2: New Scope. Provide additional Organizational Change Management & Training (OC&T) 
support as outlined in Appendix A.
OC&T Proposal Items
Change Order Price
OC&T Architect
- Includes advising on resistance approach & 
advice on sustainment best practices.
- Provide recommendations on training methods & 
reinforcement activities to increase adoptions
$22,000.00
Training support
$42,000.00
OC&T support
$42,000.00
“OC&T” Change Order Amount
$106,000.00
Change #3: The following projects end dates will also be revised: 
•
City of San Mateo, CA - FINS - Phase 1 (The remaining Adaptive working is under this 
project)
•
City of San Mateo – Change Order #6 – Staff Aug on current project (Testing staff 
augmentation is under this project) 
93 of 302

--- page 94 ---
5
Business Purpose / Reason for Change
Change #1: The client required more time to complete the End-to-End testing. Therefore, the 
project go-live date will move to 12/22/2024 from 7/21/2024 (CO#5). As a result of the 
extension of the project go-live date, the extended Post production support for Integrations 
and Payroll support, as stated under CO#6, end date will become on 4/11/2025.
Change #2: The client has requested additional Organizational Change Management & 
Training services to augment their Change Management work. 
Change #3: Need to align all projects end dates to ensure work can continue. 
Impact Assessment
Project Activities 
Affected:
Timeline and Scope affected as a result of this change order
Deliverables 
Affected:
As per Appendix A
Project Schedule 
Impact:
Schedule impact will include: 
•
Project extension of 26 weeks
•
Current Go-Live Date 07/21/2024
•
New Go-Live Date 12/22/2024
•
Extended E2E testing by 14 weeks
•
Extended Parallel testing by 4 weeks
•
UES period will occur after the Parallel testing and be for 8 weeks
•
Current Project end date 10/13/2024
•
Revised project end date 4/11/2025
Current Timeline
Total 109 weeks
4
12
16
49
8
4
16
Current
Plan Stage
Architect 
Stage
Configuration 
& Prototype 
Testing
Payroll 
Parallel
Deploy
Post 
Production
Start
9/12/2022
10/10/2022
1/2/2023
4/24/2023
4/1/2024
5/27/2024
6/24/2024
End
10/7/2022
1/1/2023
4/23/2023
3/31/2024
5/26/2024
6/23/2024
10/13/2024
Revised Timeline 
Total 135 weeks
4
12
16
63
20
4
4
Revised
Plan Stage
Architect 
Stage
Configuration 
& Prototype 
Testing
Payroll 
Parallel + 
UES
Deploy
Post 
Production
Start
9/12/2022
10/10/2022
1/2/2023
4/24/2023
7/8/2024
11/25/2024
12/24/2024
End
10/7/2022
1/1/2023
4/23/2023
7/7/2024
11/24/2024
12/23/2024
4/11/2025
Change
0
0
0
14
12
0
0
94 of 302

--- page 95 ---
6
Pricing Matrix
Change #2: The following is the T&M Pricing Matrix:
Role
Hourly 
Rate
Estimated 
Effort
Total
Senior Principal Consultant
$275
80
$22,000.00
Principal Consultant – Training
$210
200
$42,000.00
Principal Consultant – OC&T
$210
200
$42,000.00
Total
480
$106,000.00
Payment Terms
Change #1: The Total amount $290,705.00 will be split amongst the current milestone 
payment schedule. Payments for this change order will be made according to the milestone 
payment schedule below:
Fixed Fee and Invoicing
Event
Invoice 
Date
Current 
Invoice 
Amount
CO7
Revised 
Amount 
(After C07)
Plan Stage:  Delivery of Plan Artifacts
10/7/2022
$124,314.00
N/A
Architect Stage:  Sign off
1/01/2023
$251,529.75
N/A
Configure Stage:  Delivery of End to End 
Tenant 
4/23/2023
$385,603.09
N/A
Test Stage: Delivery of End to End – 2 
Tenant
10/02/2023
$499,280.00
N/A
Test Stage:  Completion of End to End 
Test 
3/31/2024
6/7/2024
$431,223.09
$156,533.46 
$587,756.55 
Test Stage: Completion of Parallel Test
5/26/2024
9/30/2024
$385,603.07
$134,171.54
 
$519,774.61 
Deploy Stage:  Completion of Push to 
Production (Go Live) 
6/23/2024
12/23/2024
$310,785.00
$0 
$310,785.00 
Post Production Support:  Completion of 
Project
7/21/2024
4/11/2025
$155,757.00
$0 
$155,757.00 
Total Payments
$2,544,095.00
$290,705.00 
$2,834,800.00 
Change #2: Time & Materials SOW: This Change Order will be billed monthly on a Time and 
Materials (“T&M”) Basis based on actual usage at the rates set forth in the SOW and as 
identified in the Pricing Matrix above.
Assumptions
95 of 302

--- page 96 ---
7
•
Any additional changes after this date will go through our Change Control process and 
may have to be handled post go-live. 
•
All Assumptions from the SOW dated 21 February 2022 apply to this Change Order
•
Authorization
Client Authorization Signature
Cognizant Authorization Signature
Name
Name
Job Title
Job Title
Date
Date
96 of 302

--- page 97 ---
8
Appendix A - Organizational Change Management Scope
Cognizant Services
Client Responsibilities
Organizational 
Change 
Management
•
Facilitate weekly OC&T 
workstream meetings for 
on-going support and guidance 
on usage of tools and 
templates, for the duration of 
the project
•
Advise on resistance 
management approach
•
Provide overview of reward and 
recognition materials
•
Confirm major change impacts 
for inclusion in readiness 
materials
•
Support the development of 
end-user communications 
verbiage, up to fifty (50) hours, 
throughout the remainder of the 
project
•
Develop updated Change 
Champion Network Plan
•
Support Change Champion 
Network activities, up to 
fifty (50) hours, throughout the 
remainder of the project
•
Develop Change Impact 
Readout
•
Introduce In-System Guidance 
planning tools
•
Advise on sustainment best 
practices
•
Provide organizational change 
counterpart to regularly 
interface 
with Cognizant’s OC&T team 
•
Engage project sponsor in 
overview presentation of 
resistance management and 
reward and recognition 
materials 
•
Partner in the confirmation of 
change impacts 
•
Assume ownership of the 
Change Impact Analysis 
•
Assume ownership of 
communications plan
•
Develop and deliver all 
communications beyond 
Cognizant’s defined scope
•
Provide input and approve of 
updated Change Champion 
Network Plan
•
Identify Change Champions
•
Design, manage, and 
implement Change Champion 
Network activities beyond 
Cognizant’s defined scope
•
Provide input and approval of 
Change Impact Readout
•
Execute sustainment activities
Training
•
Provide two hundred (200) 
hours of training support, to be 
divided between:
o
Leading the development 
of prioritized training 
materials, as defined in the 
Training Needs 
Assessment and 
Curriculum Plan
o
Delivering end-user 
training, as defined in the 
Training Needs 
Assessment and 
Curriculum Plan, 
throughout the remainder 
of the project
•
Own the development, 
conversion, and maintenance of 
In-System Guidance (Help Text, 
Guided Tours, etc.) 
•
Own the development of 
training materials beyond the 
defined Cognizant effort 
allowance
•
Own the delivery of training 
activities beyond the defined 
Cognizant effort allowance
•
Own training logistics, including 
but not limited to: registering 
participants, tracking training 
attendance and completion, 
scheduling, etc.
97 of 302

--- page 98 ---
9
Cognizant Services
Client Responsibilities
•
Recommend training evaluation 
methods
•
Recommend additional 
reinforcement activities to 
increase adoption
•
Evaluate training effectiveness
•
Coordinate training 
reinforcement activities, as 
needed
•
Measure and report on end-
user adoption
Appendix A – Timeline Extension
Function
Amount
WD HCM Core Lead 
$36,300 
WD HCM Consultant
$17,820 
WD Absence Management Lead
$27,225 
WD Absence Management Consultant
$17,820 
WD Time Tracking Lead 
$27,225 
WD Time Tracking Consultant
$17,820 
WD Benefits Lead 
$21,725 
WD Talent Management Lead
$16,225 
WD Learning Lead
$16,225 
WD Payroll Lead
$27,225 
WD Payroll SR. Principal Consultant
$27,225 
WD Change Management Lead
$10,620 
WD Reporting Lead 
$11,000 
WD Data Conversion Lead
$11,000 
WD Integrations Lead 
$16,225 
WD Integrations Principal 
$16,225 
WD Engagement Manager
$52,800 
 
$370,705
98 of 302

--- page 99 ---
Confidential
Change Order (Delivery Assurance)
©2023 Workday, Inc. v23.4
Page 1 of 2
CHANGE ORDER # 443997
TO MASTER SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENT (“MSA”)
(DELIVERY ASSURANCE – CHANGES FOR ACTIVE PROJECT ONLY)
Customer Name
City of San Mateo
Workday Entity Name
Workday, Inc. 6110 Stoneridge Mall Rd., Pleasanton, CA 94588
MSA Effective Date
February 23, 2022
Change Order Effective Date
The later of the dates beneath the parties’ signatures below
Original Order Form #
ORDER FORM #319918
Currency
USD
Total Additional Consulting Fees
$24,600.00
This Change Order is supplemental to and is governed by the terms and conditions stated in the Original Order 
Form referenced above.
The Order Term of the Original Order Form is hereby extended and will end on December 22, 2024. 
Fees and Payment. Customer will be invoiced for the Total Additional Consulting Fees upon the Change Order 
Effective Date with fees payable in accordance with the terms of the MSA. All remittance advice and invoice inquiries 
may be directed to Accounts.Receivable@workday.com. Any travel and other expenses associated with the 
Professional Services set forth in this Change Order are subject to the terms of the Original Order Form or the MSA 
to which the Original Order Form is subject, as the case may be.
Customer Contact Information
Billing, In Care of
Contact Name
Peter Owen
Street Address
City/Town, State/Region/Province, Zip/Postal Code 
Country
330 W 20th Ave
San Mateo, California 94403
United States
Phone/Fax #
650-522-7000
Email (required)
powen@cityofsanmateo.org
This Change Order is only valid and binding on the parties when executed by both parties and is subject to the 
additional terms in the MSA and Addendum A to the Original Order Form referenced above. 
99 of 302

--- page 100 ---
Confidential
Change Order (Delivery Assurance)
©2023 Workday, Inc. v23.4
Page 2 of 2
THE VALIDITY OF THIS CHANGE ORDER IS CONDITIONED ON WORKDAY RECEIVING A FULLY SIGNED 
COPY OF THIS CHANGE ORDER NO LATER THAN NOON PACIFIC TIME ON April 15, 2024 (“DEADLINE”). 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Workday reserves the right to accept the Change Order signed after the Deadline 
in Workday’s sole discretion and will provide confirmation of its acceptance by adding its initials on the Change 
Order after the Deadline if it deems fit.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Change Order is entered into and becomes a binding part of the above-referenced 
MSA as of the Change Order Effective Date, defined above.
City of San Mateo
Workday, Inc.
Signature
Signature
Name 
Name
Title
Title
Date Signed 
Date Signed
100 of 302

--- page 101 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 24-8604
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
April 15, 2024 
SUBJECT:
City Council Priority List – Adoption 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt the City Council Priority List for fiscal year 2024-25. 
BACKGROUND:
The City Council's goal-setting process comprises a three-step deliberation procedure culminating in the adoption of a 
Priority List, facilitating comprehensive resource planning over multiple years. The first step of the process was a City 
Council workshop, held on February 3, 2024. At this workshop, the City Council reviewed the adopted fiscal year 2023-24 
Priority List, removed operationalized and completed items, and proposed new priorities to add to the Priority List for 
fiscal year 2024-25. 
The second step of the process was held during a City Council meeting on March 18, 2024. At this meeting, the City Council 
reviewed the proposed work plan for each objective and the estimated resource requirements to needed to achieve the 
proposed work plan objectives and received public comment on the draft Priority List. Some revisions were made to the 
Draft Priority List during the meeting, which included: 
•
Updated the proposed work plan on two items, #26 and #27, to accurately reflect the original intention of the City 
Councilmember who proposed the items. These items are highlighted in yellow on Attachment 1. 
Priority 
Updated Work Plan based on Council Direction
#26: Improve and strengthen democratic 
systems and decrease polarization.
Conduct a variety of educational outreach to current and 
future voters by, including registration events, utilizing mailers, 
and collaborating with service organizations. Staff will continue 
to conduct post-election review and will add additional metrics 
and analysis as an enhancement to this review.
#27: Work with schools, community colleges, 
businesses, and other organizations to expand 
youth and senior workforce development & 
civic leadership opportunities.
Attract and retain youth/young adult interns by partnering 
with organizations, such as Empowerment Through Action and 
local businesses, and centralizing internships. Improve our 
volunteer program to attract and retain volunteers, especially 
seniors.
•
Modified the priority language on 3 items, #24, #28, and #37, to refine the priorities based on the progress staff 
has made over the years and to accurately capture Councilmembers’ goals. These items are highlighted in green 
on Attachment 1. 
101 of 302

--- page 102 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Draft Priority from Blue Sky 
Modified Verbiage based on Council Direction
#18: Update the General Plan. 
Implement the adopted General Plan.
#24: Enable more quick-build bicycle/micro 
mobility/pedestrian projects by identifying 
reliable City funding and installation via 
Public Works staff and/or a trusted on-call 
contractor.
Prioritize planning, design, construction and maintenance of 
rapid safety improvement projects citywide and ensure there is 
a reliable City fund for long term success.
#27: Fund and deliver the Clean Water 
Program.
Deliver the Clean Water Program.
#37: Complete all High and Medium-High 
priority projects in the 2020 Bicycle Master 
Plan and the Pedestrian Master Plan.
Complete all High and Medium-High priority projects in the 
2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the Pedestrian Master Plan with 
the goal of prioritizing quick-build projects where feasible.
The fiscal year 2024-25 Priority List, included as Attachment 1, is now before the City Council for adoption. Staff will return 
to the City Council in the fall for a progress report of the Priority List that will include updates on the status of each 
objective.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this agenda item. A majority of the resource requirements for the adopted Priority List are 
incorporated into the fiscal year 2024-25 budget proposal and the remainder will be brought back as needed, as the 
projects evolve following further analysis and Council direction.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This City Council Priority List is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - City Council Priority List FY 2024-2025
STAFF CONTACT
Denise Garcia, Management Analyst II
dgarcia@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7277
102 of 302

--- page 103 ---
Proposed Fiscal Year 2024-25 City Council Priorities
 #
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Requirement 
intensity
Work Plan FY 24-25
Additional resources required above current budget 
Approved Modifications 
1
City Manager's Office
Establish policies to decarbonize existing buildings and 
infrastructure and eliminate methane gas use by 2030. 
Medium
Conduct community outreach and provide education; present findings to Sustainability and 
Infrastructure Commission for recommendations to City Council; return to City Council with 
narrowed down policy options and related resource needs and receive final Council direction 
on policy formation. 
Consultant and staff support for community 
outreach/education and policy exploration is already 
budgeted. Additional resources may be required 
depending on final policy direction from City Council.
2
City Manager's Office
Create a comprehensive, ongoing Citywide Community Outreach 
and Engagement Program.
High
Onboard and train new communications team and retain professional communications 
consultants to reestablish regular eNews, implement biannual print newsletters, bolster 
social media campaigns, improve high interest webpages, work with staff Citywide to 
enhance public engagement, establish a townhall program, and develop civic engagement 
forums. Enhance customer service and community outreach training and education 
opportunities for staff citywide.   
$150K is spread throughout parts of the CMO budget for 
professional services and hosting specials events; a 
significant amount of staff resources would be dedicated 
to this priority throughout the City.
3
Public Works 
Create a Capital Infrastructure Plan or process for reinvesting in 
infrastructure to allow the City to evaluate City facilities and assets 
when upgrades are needed.
High
Budget for and engage a consultant to complete a Capital Improvement Program 
organizational assessment to optimize the process for identifying all City infrastructure 
improvements, evaluate the process of prioritizing improvements, and assess the scheduling 
and budgeting methodologies. In addition, procure a consultant to complete a 
comprehensive facilities assessment to identify required improvements.
Budget required for CIP organizational assessment and 
facilities infrastructure study, which is included in the 
Operating Budget requests.
4
City Manager's 
Office/Community 
Development
Provide greater support to business development centers or 
mixed use development areas to increase economic vitality. 
Medium
Hire an economic consultant to provide peer reviews of proposed new development with 
ground floor commercial space; develop a list of best practices for ground floor commercial 
marketability that can be shared with developers and incorporated into future planning 
documents, including the Downtown Area Plan Update; continue to monitor commercial 
vacancies Citywide and engage with building owners as needed to understand vacancy and 
support getting space re-occupied. 
Would need to publish a request for proposals for 
consultant work and dedicate staff time to administer 
program and work with developers and prospective 
business owners.
5
Public Works
Expedite efforts to improve the stormwater collection, drainage, 
and storage system, including dredging the Marina lagoon.
High
Continue Stormwater Master Plan Update and complete critical components of data 
collection. Complete Marina Lagoon Maintenance Dredging design and initiate construction 
in Summer 2025.
$1M is requested in upcoming budget from the new 
Stormwater Fund to complete the Stormwater Master 
Plan Update.  No additional resources anticipated for 
Maintenance Dredging beyond what Council previously 
appropriated.  
6
City Attorney's Office
Explore adopting a Gardening Waste ordinance.
Low
Conduct legal research and survey other local jurisdictions.  
No additional resources required.
7
City Manager's Office
Explore a resolution affirming the City's commitment to integrate 
new technologies, such as artificial intelligence(AI), without 
displacing work force.
Low
Research County of San Mateo resolution.
No additional resources required.
8
City Clerk's Office & Parks 
and Recreation
Increase organizational capacity to support the Toyonaka Sister 
City Program within the Parks & Recreation Department and City 
Clerk Department.
Medium
Develop a sister city policy or resolution to define City staff and non-profit roles and scope 
(look at Redwood City). 
No additional resources required to develop a policy. 
Depending on the nature of the policy, additional 
resources may be required to facilitate.
9
Public Works
Conduct an Annual Transportation Review of progress on all 
ongoing plans, including project updates and key metrics such as 
City mode share, collision and safety data.
Low
Staff will gather key metrics and present an annual transportation review to City Council.
No additional resources required.
Items to be Completed within the Fiscal Year
yellow - updated work plan
green - priority modification
1
103 of 302

--- page 104 ---
Proposed Fiscal Year 2024-25 City Council Priorities
 #
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Requirement 
intensity
Work Plan FY 24-25
Additional resources required above current budget 
Approved Modifications 
10
City Manager's Office
Consider the adoption of wage theft protections
High
Partner and work with the County's Office of Labor Relations.
No additional resources required. 
11
City Manager's Office
Integrate master plans to increase efficiency and community 
impact
Low
Continuously cross reference all city planning documents to ensure consistency.
No additional resources required. 
12
Public Works and City 
Manager's Office
Design and implement capital improvements for permanent street 
closure
Medium
Complete construction of the B Street Pedestrian Mall Improvement Project by Fall 2024. 
The estimated construction cost increase range is up to 
$675K depending upon Council direction at the April 1, 
2024 study session.
13
Finance
Initiate a Community Budget Process for anticipated revenue from 
Measure CC
Medium 
Continue to monitor Measure CC revenue.  Report the results through quarterly updates.  
No additional resources needed.
14
Public Works
Remove North Shoreview from FEMA Flood Assessment
High
Continue coordination with FEMA on formal removal of flood zone designation by Summer 
2024/Fall 2024.
Likely no additional resources required if FEMA accepts 
the latest information submittals.  If additional data is 
again required to be submitted, $50,000 in additional 
consultant support may be needed.
15
City Manager's Office
Explore the establishment of Property-Based Improvement 
Districts
Medium
Bring a study session to council for discussion.
No additional resources required.
16
City Manager's Office
Explore the implementation of a Customer Response Management 
or 311 system
High
Research methods by which the City currently receives service requests and back-end 
systems where requests are managed. Select a suitable CRM that will work with existing 
back-end systems.
CIP request of $100k. Yearly operational request of $25k 
for CRM subscription.
17
City Manager's Office and 
Public Works
Enhance city-wide disaster response and emergency preparedness High
Continue working with Office of Emergency Services on updates to the City's Emergency 
Operations Plan including associated staff training and exercises, ongoing training for staff 
roles and responsibilities at the Emergency Operations Center, and training on the transition 
to new virtual EOC software (Veoci); bolster City staff resources with emergency 
preparedness expertise; update departmental emergency plans and COOP/COGs; purchase 
additional emergency rations/provisions and equipment; pursue flood control permitting 
and upgrades; procure grant professional writing assistance; evaluate City infrastructure for 
resilience and fitness during disaster/extreme events. 
Approximately $475k ($95k emergency standby 
generator, $200k staff, $75k grant writing consultant, 
$100k rations/equipment/training supplies)
Items to be Completed within 2 to 5 Years
yellow - updated work plan
green - priority modification
2
104 of 302

--- page 105 ---
Proposed Fiscal Year 2024-25 City Council Priorities
 #
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Requirement 
intensity
Work Plan FY 24-25
Additional resources required above current budget 
Approved Modifications 
18
Community Development
Implement the adopted General Plan
High
Support adoption of a resolution to place a ballot measure amending Measure Y on the 
November 2024 election; initiate a comprehensive Zoning Code update to implement the 
General Plan, including community outreach and engagement, starting with an RFP for a 
consultant to support the effort, with a target to initiate the update effort in Q3.
Approx. $500k-$750k for consultant support will be 
required for the comprehensive Zoning Code update and 
community outreach and engagement, with funding 
coming from the Long Range Planning Fund.
Modify priority to include amending 
Measure Y and initiating Zoning 
Code amendments to implement 
General Plan 2040. 
19
Community Development
Implement Housing Element Policies
High
Begin implementation of all 2023-2031 Housing Element policies and programs with a 
2024/2025 target date.
Approx $100k from Long Range Planning Fund will be 
needed for housing consultants to support 
implementation of the HE programs with 24/25 
completion targets. 
20
Library and Public Works
Address structural issues at the Marina Library 
High
Complete design process, including addition structural analysis, by December 2024 and 
begin construction work in late Spring 2025. Complete Construction by the end of FY 25/26.
Need to procure resources for branch improvements 
beyond essential structural work.
21
Public Works
Reconstruct all failed streets in San Mateo by 2026
High
Complete construction of Phase 4 by Fall 2024 and award construction contract for  Phase 5 
Spring 2025. Phase 5 is the final phase of the Smooth Streets Program.
No additional resources required.
22
Public Works
Replace all remaining high voltage circuits to improve safety and 
reliability of the street light system
High
Complete construction of Phase 3. Complete Design for Phase 4 (Final Phase). Construction 
for Phase 4 is expected to begin in FY 25-26.
No additional resources required.
23
City Manager's Office
Implement a robust, year-round Downtown Activation Program as 
part of our core City services.
High
Organize a committee to focus on the vibrancy of Downtown.
Significant staff time diverted from other priority tasks, 
potential financial resources depending on Program 
objectives
24
Public Works 
Prioritize planning, design, construction and maintenance of rapid 
safety improvement projects citywide and ensure there is a 
reliable City fund for long term success.
High
Consolidate safety projects identified in existing and future plans into a prioritized list. 
Develop an implementation strategy that includes staff resources and funding for each 
phase (planning, design, construction and maintenance). 
Continue to progress in safety projects in design
- Delaware Safe Routes to School Protected Bike Lane
- Hillsdale GAP Closure
- 3rd and Norfolk Safety Improvement Project 
[COST BELOW ASSUME A 5 YEAR DELIVERY WINDOW 
AND COST ARE A TOTAL OF 5 YEARS]
I. Consultant to create a consolidated and prioritized list. 
~$72,000
II. Designers to develop rapid build plans for 
construction. ~$150,000
III. Construction management team to manage the 
construction of the rapid safety projects. ~$200,000
IV. Maintenance options to maintain these rapid safety 
improvements. ~$230,000 
V. Immediate implementation of curb markings to 
improve safety in key locations. ~$50,000 for internal 
staff to start installation. 
Priority verbiage was modified 
during the March 18, 2024 City 
Council meeting.
25
City Manager's 
Office/Community 
Development
Explore piloting a City Grant Fund.
Medium
Identify funding source and amount (50k),  staff resources, structure, and process.
$50K plus staff resources
26
City Clerk's Office & City 
Attorney's Office
Improve and strengthen democratic systems and decrease 
polarization. 
Medium
Conduct a variety of educational outreach to current and future voters by, including 
registration events, utilizing mailers, and collaborating with service organizations. Staff will 
continue to conduct post-election review and will add additional metrics and analysis as an 
enhancement to this review.
Post-election review of campaign ordinance does not 
require additional resources. Additional resources may 
be required to broaden outreach depending on the 
objective.
27
City Manager's Office and 
Human Resources
Work with schools, community colleges, businesses, and other 
organizations to expand youth and senior workforce development 
& civic leadership opportunities. 
Medium
Attract and retain youth/young adult interns by partnering with organizations, such as 
Empowerment Through Action and local businesses, and centralizing internships. Improve 
our volunteer program to attract and retain volunteers, especially seniors.
Outreach for both programs can be absorbed in existing 
budget.
28
Public Works
Deliver the Clean Water Program.
High
Complete all identified construction projects by the end of FY 25/26.
No additional resources required.
Deleted the reference of "Fund" as 
all funding is in place.
yellow - updated work plan
green - priority modification
3
105 of 302

--- page 106 ---
Proposed Fiscal Year 2024-25 City Council Priorities
 #
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Requirement 
intensity
Work Plan FY 24-25
Additional resources required above current budget 
Approved Modifications 
29
Library
Implement Library Space Master Plan
High
Complete rest of space enhance projects: Cafe, Lobby, Teen Area, Business Library, 
Jobseekers Space, Biotech Learning Center, Periodical Storage Space
No existing funding for project. Meet w/ EHDD 
(architects of Main Library) to reevaluate plans since 
original plans are now 7 years old. Est. cost of new 
consultation process is approximately $100k
30
Parks & Recreation
Implement the Central Park Master Plan
High
Staff will complete phase 1 of the Central Park Playground Improvements, which consist of 
directing the project manager to solicit bids and manage the construction process.
Through the CIP process, additional resources will be 
requested and identified to fulfill this item.
31
Public Works
Expedite efforts to improve the stormwater collection, drainage, 
and storage system, including dredging the Marina lagoon
High
Adopt a prioritized, long-term 5-Year Capital Improvement Plan based on Stormwater 
Master Plan Update. Initiate and complete environmental approval process for dredging of 
the Marina Lagoon. Begin implementation of other highly prioritized stormwater capital 
improvement projects as funding and resources allow.
Anticipate $2M for full design, permitting, and 
environmental review for full-scale Marina Lagoon 
Dredging project (federal earmark requested, with $500k 
proposed from the Stormwater Fund as local match).  
Staff is still pursuing other near-term implementation 
projects for small-scale drainage improvements and 
camera/sensor installation with previously appropriated 
funding from Council.
32
Public Works
Implement a Green Fleet by 2030
High
Complete design and initiate construction of City Hall/City Plaza EV charging infrastructure 
improvements by end of calendar year 2025. Seek additional grant funding and plan for Corp 
Yard/PD EV charging infrastructure improvements. 
Significant additional funds will be needed to fully 
implement. Some grant funding may be available for 
electric vehicles and charging infrastructure.
33
Public Works
Expedite efforts to provide high quality effluent from the 
wastewater treatment plant upgrades to support the future 
production of potable water.
High
Continue participating in the Peninsula Pure Water (formerly San Francisco Peninsula 
Regional Purification) project to pursue a wastewater purification facility at the Silicon Valley 
Clean Water facility in Redwood Shores.
No additional resources needed for staff participation in 
the longer-term effort.
34
Public Works
Minimize impacts to residents from train horn noise at City at-
grade crossings
High
Complete construction of all rail safety measures required for Train Horn Noise Quiet Zone 
(Quiet Zone) qualification by end of calendar year 2024. Staff to work with FRA and required 
stakeholders (e.g. CPUC, Caltrain, and Union Pacific) to complete administrative steps to 
establish Quiet Zone by end of calendar year 2025.
No additional resources required.
35
Public Works
Study resource feasibility for the downtown grade separations and 
long-term train corridor improvements
High
Identify resource needs for staffing, grant writer, and design consultant to implement the 
feasibility study.
Funds needed for a Consultant Grant Writer and 
Consultant Designer.
36
Public Works
Improve traffic flow on 19th Ave and Fashion Island Boulevard 
from Grant to Mariners Island Boulevard
High 
Continue the design for 463338 Norfolk/Fashion Island intersection improvements.  Continue 
design for the 19th Avenue Smart Corridor Project. Finalize negotiations to combine both 
projects on 19th Avenue and Fashion Island to help expedite delivery and coordination of 
both projects.
No additional resources required.
37
Public Works
Complete all High and Medium-High priority projects in the 2020 
Bicycle Master Plan and the Pedestrian Master Plan with the goal 
of prioritizing quick-build projects where feasible.
High
Program all existing 2020 BMP projects into the Bike San Mateo Program in order to 
expedite the design and delivery of all High and Med-High bicycle projects. This will include 
quick-build bicycle projects. Identify all incomplete PMP projects and develop a workplan for 
expedited completion. Complete design for the Delaware SRTS Protected Bike Lane Project, 
Hillsdale Gap Closure project and the 3rd and Norfolk Island Intersection Safety 
Improvement project. Continue to the design for the 19th Avenue and Fashion Island Class IV 
bike lane projects. 
Need Design Staff
Need Implementation Staff
Need funding above and beyond what is in the CIP
Partial priority verbiage was 
modified during the March 18, 2024 
City Council meeting.
Items to be completed in 5 or more years
yellow - updated work plan
green - priority modification
4
106 of 302

--- page 107 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4662
File ID: 24-8620
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
April 15, 2024 
SUBJECT:
B Street Pedestrian Mall Improvements Project – Bid Rejection
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to reject all bids received for the B Street Pedestrian Mall Improvements Project; and authorize the 
Public Works Department to initiate a second Notice Inviting Bids.
BACKGROUND:
On May 17, 2021, City Council directed staff to establish a year-round Pedestrian Mall on the segment of B Street from 1st 
to 3rd Avenues (Pedestrian Mall). On October 4, 2021, Council adopted the Pedestrian Malls Ordinance, found in San 
Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Chapter 11.29. Thereafter, staff began work on the design phase of the Pedestrian Mall 
Improvement Project (Project), which includes enhancements such as street furnishings, planters, safety barriers (bollards) 
at the street ends, ADA access improvements, and bike racks. 
 
The City entered into an agreement with Community Design + Architecture in January 2022 to design the above-described
improvements to the Pedestrian Mall.  By March 2024, Community Design + Architecture completed the design. The 
Project’s construction documents were prepared so that the bollards to be installed between 2nd and 3rd Avenues were 
included as part of the base bid (main contract). Meanwhile, the bollards to be installed between 1st and 2nd Avenues were 
included as “add alternate” bid items, meaning the City could choose to include the “add alternate” bid items at the time 
of contract award. The Engineer’s Estimate for the base bid was $980,000, and if the add alternative items were included, 
the total Engineer’s Estimate would be $1,347,000. 
 
In accordance with Municipal Code section 3.60.030, a competitive public process was used to obtain bids for the Project. 
A Notice Inviting Sealed Proposals was issued to advertise the Project on March 7, 2024. On the March 28, 2024 bid 
opening date, four bids were received:  
 
Bidder Rank
Contractor
Base Bid
Add. Alt. Bid
Total Bid
1
BuildCorp Inc.
$935,000
$144,000
$1,079,000
2
VNH Builders
$980,700
$205,000
$1,185,700
3
Golden Bay Construction
$1,326,834
$463,830
$1,790,664
4
Tennyson Electric
$1,639,290
$712,150
$2,351,440
 
On April 1, 2024, staff presented an update on the Pedestrian Mall to City Council and requested direction on supporting a 
pilot program for the pedestrian mall between 1st and 2nd Avenues and on whether to install bollards or planter barriers on 
each block. City Council directed staff to move forward with planter barriers on both blocks of the pedestrian mall and not 
to install bollards at this time. Therefore, the Project as currently prepared cannot move forward as it includes bollards 
107 of 302

--- page 108 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
between 2nd and 3rd Avenues as part of the main contract. Staff recommends rejecting all bids pursuant to SMMC section 
3.60.040(a)(4) and readvertise the Project without the bollard scope. 
Staff intends to start the re-advertisement of the revised Project by the end of this April. Staff will bring a future 
construction agreement award recommendation to City Council prior to the construction occurring in late summer/fall 
2024. Staff will install the planter barriers through a separate procurement effort outside of the Project scope to facilitate 
their installation as soon as possible.   
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for the rejection of bids.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as a project that has been disapproved.  (CEQA Guidelines Section 15270.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Stephanie Piñon, Senior Engineer
spinon@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7315
108 of 302

--- page 109 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2024)
REJECTING ALL BIDS FOR THE B STREET PEDESTRIAN MALL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT
WHEREAS, on October 4, 2021, the City Council adopted the Pedestrian Malls Ordinance, 
codified in San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Chapter 11.29; and 
WHEREAS, the Pedestrian Mall Improvement Project (Project) was developed to include 
enhancements to street furnishings, planters, safety barriers (bollards) at the street ends, ADA access 
improvements, and bike racks along B Street between 1st and 3rd Avenue in the City; and
WHEREAS, in 2022, work began on the design phase of the Project; and
WHEREAS, the City advertised the Project on March 7, 2024, in accordance with SMMC Section 
3.60.040; and
WHEREAS, on the March 28, 2024 bid opening date, four bids were received; and
WHEREAS, on April 1, 2024, staff presented an update on the Project to City Council and 
requested direction whether to install bollards or planter barriers on each block; and 
WHEREAS, Council directed staff to move forward with planter barriers on both blocks of the 
pedestrian mall and not to install bollards at this time; and
WHEREAS, the Project as currently prepared cannot move forward as it includes bollards 
between 2nd and 3rd Avenues as part of the main contract instead planter barriers; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.60.040(a)(4), the City Council, in its 
discretion, may reject all bids received. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY 
RESOLVES that:
1.
This Council action is categorically exempt from CEQA as a project that has been 
disapproved.  (CEQA Guidelines Section 15270.) 
2.
In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.040(a)(4), all bids for the B 
Street Pedestrian Mall Improvements Project are hereby rejected.
3.
City staff is authorized to readvertise the Project for bidding.
109 of 302

--- page 110 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 10-2021
File ID: 24-8580
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
April 15, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Fiscal Year 2024-25 Comprehensive Fee Schedule – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the revisions to the proposed fiscal year 2024-25 Comprehensive Fee Schedule.
BACKGROUND:
Section 3.64.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code requires the City Manager to submit the City’s fee schedule to the City 
Council for approval prior to submittal of the annual budget. It is the City's policy and practice to increase fees annually by 
Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the San Francisco Bay Area. The proposed increases reflect the City's increase in materials 
and maintenance costs incurred in providing services. The City uses the CPI from the previous October, which is the most 
recent data available at the beginning of the review process (CPI for 2024-25 is 2.8% from November 2022 to October 
2023). Certain fees are adjusted using other formulas including the San Francisco, CA Construction Cost Index (CCI) which 
was 0.7% this year. Other adjustments to fees are made periodically as deemed necessary to reflect actual staff costs, 
market alignments, or to comply with policy. The proposed fee adjustments are based on the annual CPI increase, a 
periodic adjustment, or are the result of a fee study and detailed analyses of the cost for providing specific 
programs/activities. 
The Wastewater Capacity Charge is a fee based on the cost of construction, therefore annual adjustments should be made 
in accordance with the CCI. In FY21-22 to FY23-24, the Wastewater Capacity Charge fee was inadvertently adjusted 
annually according to the CPI resulting in a lower increase. In the proposed FY24-25 fee schedule, the proposed 
Wastewater Capacity Charge fee resolves the errors and includes the current CCI increases for FY24-25. 
 
Recreation fees and park in-lieu fees were reviewed by the Parks and Recreation Commission at its February 13, 2024 
meeting. Library fees were reviewed by the Library Board at its February 26, 2024 meeting. All fees will become effective 
July 1, 2024, except where otherwise noted. Sewer service charges are set separately by ordinance and are not part of this 
fee revision process. Tables summarizing the new fees and various fee changes including those in excess of CPI are 
provided in Attachment 3.
Public Works currently collects a deposit for plan review and inspection services for large multi-family, commercial, and 
mixed-used building permits (new or redevelopment projects with associated Planning Applications). This current practice 
results in excessive administrative and overhead costs to keep the deposit account current. With larger building permits 
taking 2 – 5 years to complete it also presents challenges with auditors as deposits have a high volume of transactions and 
have proven to be difficult to track.   
The new proposed Public Works Building Permit Support fee of 25% of the building permit fee will remove the deposit-
110 of 302

--- page 111 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
based practice to establish a more streamlined approach. The flat fee will also provide better transparency to developers 
planning to develop in San Mateo as this fee can be calculated and accounted for upfront. The 2024 Public Works Fee 
Study recommended a building support fee of around 30% – 32%. Public Works is proposing 25% as a conservative number 
to make sure over-collection does not occur.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
 The changes to the fee schedule should result in some additional revenue in the new fiscal year. However, the actual 
amounts are difficult to calculate because the use of some services is voluntary, and the volume of activity varies.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Comprehensive Fee Schedule update for fiscal year 2024-25 is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a 
government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially 
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met. In accordance with Government Code sections 66018 and 6062a, notice of 
the fee increases was published twice, beginning 10 days in advance of the public hearing. Prior to the meeting, City staff 
made the data available for the public, indicating the amount of cost, or estimated cost, required to provide the service for 
which the fee or service charge is levied, and the receiving fund of the fee revenue.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Proposed Comprehensive Fee Schedule FY 2024-2025
Att 3 - Tables Summarizing Changes
STAFF CONTACT
Karley Toffey, Senior Management Analyst
ktoffey@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7106
Karen Huang, Finance Director
khuang@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7110
111 of 302

--- page 112 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ___ (2024)
ESTABLISHING A COMPREHENSIVE FEE SCHEDULE FOR FISCAL YEAR 2024-2025
WHEREAS, the City reviews its Comprehensive Fee Schedule on an annual basis; and
WHEREAS, it is the City’s policy and practice to establish service fees sufficient to recover its costs, 
including inflation, based on increases to the Consumer Price Index, the Construction Cost Index, and to 
eliminate or reduce fees that are obsolete, no longer applicable to services provided, or succeeded by state or 
county agencies; and 
WHEREAS, the increase to the Consumer Price Index (CPI) from November 2022 to October 2023 is 
2.8%, and the increase to the Construction Cost Index is 0.7% from March 2023 to February 2024, which will be 
reflected in the fiscal year 2024-2025 budget; and
WHEREAS, fee increases in excess of the 2.8% CPI factor are appropriate, when based on increases in 
the City’s actual costs or market analyses, as follows:
•
Police Outside Detail Rates
•
Temporary No Parking Signs
•
Utility Permits
•
Encroachment Permits
•
Grading Permits
•
Mapping and Agreements Fees
•
Curb Painting
•
Wireless Permits
WHEREAS, an exception to reliance on the Consumer Price Index is the Wastewater Capacity Charge, 
which is a fee based on the cost of construction, and annual adjustments are therefore made in accordance with 
the San Francisco, CA Construction Cost Index; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with Government Code section 66016, the Council held a public hearing to 
consider these fee increases on April 15, 2024; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with Government Code section 66019, at least ten days prior to the public 
hearing, the City made data available to the public supporting the need for fee increases.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that:
1.
The approval of a Comprehensive Fee Schedule is not a project subject to CEQA because it is a 
government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which 
may result in a potentially significant impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15378(b)(4).)
112 of 302

--- page 113 ---
2.
The fees included in the Comprehensive Fee Schedule are approved.
3.
All fees shall become effective July 1, 2024, except where otherwise noted.
113 of 302

--- page 114 ---
Proposed 
Comprehensive Fee Schedule
July 1, 2024 - June 30, 2025
114 of 302

--- page 115 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
COMPREHENSIVE FEE SCHEDULE
Table of Contents
Parks & Recreation…………………………………………………………….........…8.1
Police……………………………………………………………………….…….....…9.1
Library……………………………………………………………………………........7.1
City Clerk's………………………………………………………………………….....1.1
Community Development
Building…………………...…………..……..…...………………..…....2.1
Code Enforcement………………………………………...………….....3.1
Planning………………...…………..………..…...……………...….…..4.1
Finance…………………………………………...………………………...……....….5.1
Information Technology………………………………………………………….....…6.1
Effective July 1, 2020, customers using credit/debit cards to pay for services will be charged a service fee payable to 
the City's merchant service provider at the rate of 2.6%+ in addition to the cost of services. The credit card service fee 
will be reflected as a separate transaction on your credit card statement. As an alternative, checks and money orders 
are acceptable by mail or cash, check, e-check and money orders in person at City facilities.
Public Works…………………………………………………………………............10.1
Penalties & Interest……………………………………………………………...…....11.1
Impact, In-lieu, and Linkage Fees…………………………………………....…...…..12.1
115 of 302

--- page 116 ---
UNIT
FEE
I. ELECTION DOCUMENT COPIES
Per Page
$0.10
II. PHOTOCOPIES
Per Page
$0.15
III. OUTSIDE SERVICES
Reproductions not performed by City (maps, photos, etc.).
Per Reproduction
Actual Costs
IV. CERTIFICATIONS
Each
$1.50
V. APPEALS to the City Council of a decision by the Planning 
Commission, Community Relations Commission, or Public 
Works Commission.
Each Appeal
$565.00
VI. INITIATIVE FILING FEE
Each
$200.00
CITY CLERK
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 1.1
116 of 302

--- page 117 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
I.
A.
% of Building Permit Fee
70%
B.
% of Building Permit Fee
75%
C.
% of Building Permit Fee
65%
II.
A.
Valuation
$288.95 
Valuation
$288.95 
(for 1st $500) $12.84 for each add'l $100 or fraction 
thereof
Valuation
$500.86 
(for 1st $2,000) $22.33 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,065.98 
(for 1st $25,000) $28.48 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,849.38 
(for 1st $50,000) $21.94 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$3,056.64 
(for 1st $100,000) $14.16 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$5,394.10 
(for 1st $250,000) $7.75 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$7,526.03 
(for 1st $500,000) $6.96 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$11,353.31 
(for 1st $1,000,000) $3.48 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
$500,001 to $1,000,000
$250,001.00 - $500,000
$1,000,001 and Over
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
BUILDING PLAN REVIEW FEES
$1.00 - $500.00
$2,001.00 - $25,000.00
$50,001.00 - $100,000.00
$100,001.00 - $250,000.00
BUILDING PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES
$25,001.00 - $50,000.00
SINGLE FAMILY/DUPLEX RESIDENTIAL PLAN 
REVIEW
COMMERCIAL BUILDING PLAN REVIEW
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDING PLAN 
REVIEW
SINGLE FAMILY/DUPLEX RESIDENTIAL PERMIT 
AND INSPECTION
$501.00 - $2,000.00
Page 2.1
117 of 302

--- page 118 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
II.
B.
Valuation
$288.95 
Valuation
$288.95 
(for 1st $500) $12.84 for each add'l $100 or fraction 
thereof
Valuation
$500.86 
(for 1st $2,000) $30.96 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,284.27 
(for 1st $25,000) $25.68 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,990.66 
(for 1st $50,000) $29.65 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$3,621.74 
(for 1st $100,000) $8.87 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$7,526.03 
(for 1st $500,000)  $10.55 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$13,331.17 
(for 1st $1,00,000)  $1.64 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$20,549.09 
(for 1st $5,000,000) $2.60 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$34,830.84 
(for 1st $10,000,000) $1.39 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$57,743.26 
(for 1st $25,000,000) $1.04 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$86,306.76 
(for 1st $50,000,000) $1.04 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$114,870.26 
(for 1st $75,000,000) $0.52 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
$50,000.01 - $100,000.00
$100,000.01 - $500,000.00
$500,000.01 - $1,000,000.00
$1,000,000.01 - $5,000,000.00
$5,000,000.01 - $10,000,000.00
COMMERCIAL BUILDING PERMIT AND INSPECTION
$501.00 - $2,000.00
$2,001.00 - $25,000.00
$1.00 - $500.00
$25,000.01 - $50,000.00
BUILDING PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES (continued)
$10,000,000.01 - $25,000,000.00
$25,000,000.01 - $50,000,000.00
$50,000,000.01 - $75,000,000.00
$75,000,000.01 and Over
Page 2.2
118 of 302

--- page 119 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
II.
C.
Valuation
$288.95 
Valuation
$288.95 
(for 1st $500) $12.84 for each add'l $100 or fraction 
thereof
Valuation
$500.86 
(for 1st $2,000) $30.96 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,284.27 
(for 1st $25,000) $25.68 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,990.66 
(for 1st $50,000) $29.65 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$3,621.74 
(for 1st $100,000) $8.87 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$7,526.03 
(for 1st $500,000)  $10.55 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$13,331.17 
(for 1st $1,00,000)  $3.57 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$29,025.69 
(for 1st $5,000,000) $5.16 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$57,435.12 
(for 1st $10,000,000) $1.73 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$85,998.63 
(for 1st $25,000,000) $1.55 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$128,689.81 
(for 1st $50,000,000) $1.04 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$157,253.30 
(for 1st $75,000,000) $0.52 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
NOTE: Valuation shall be determined based upon the International Code Council's most recently published Building Valuation Table with a regional cost 
modifier of 2.93. The project valuation will be inclusive of all trades - Building, Electrical, Mechanical, and Plumbing. The Building Official may adjust the 
plan checking/permit fee for an individual project when costs to the City are not congruent with this fee schedule.
BUILDING PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES (continued)
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDING PERMT 
AND INSPECTION
$1.00 - $500.00
$501.00 - $2,000.00
$2,001.00 - $25,000.00
$25,000.01 - $50,000.00
$50,000.01 - $100,000.00
$100,000.01 - $500,000.00
$500,000.01 - $1,000,000.00
$1,000,000.01 - $5,000,000.00
$5,000,000.01 - $10,000,000.00
$10,000,000.01 - $25,000,000.00
$25,000,000.01 - $50,000,000.00
$50,000,000.01 - $75,000,000.00
$75,000,000.01 and Over
Page 2.3
119 of 302

--- page 120 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
III.
A.
1.
Commercial and Multi-Residential
0 -10,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
10,001-35,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
35,001-75,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
75,001-120,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
Over 120,000 Square Feet
Per Hour
*See Note Below
2.
Single Family and Duplex Plan Review
0-10,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
B.
Fee
10% of Building Permit Fee, with a minimum fee of 
$210
C.
1.
Commercial
% of Building Permit Fee
25%
2.
Multifamily Residential
% of Building Permit Fee
25%
3.
Mixed-Use
% of Building Permit Fee
25%
D.
Hourly Rate
Please refer to Building, Fire and Planning Hourly 
Rate
E.
Fee / Actual Cost
 Actual Cost for all City Departments for additional 
identical and mirror image plan checks where 
applicable codes have not changed. 
F.
a. Park and Recreation Tax on Residential Building 
Permits
 Per $100 Valuation on 
Building Permit App. 
$0.30
a. Consultants for specialized plan checking and 
inspection services or to expedite plan checking and 
inspection services
Fee is per Consultant's rate
b. Reimburse cost of staff or consultant time spent in 
plan check or inspection services.  Park Plan Check and 
Inspection Services on Building Permits. Fee to be 
collected at time of Building Permit application. After 
payment of fees, Permittee may apply for an exemption 
for projects having no Park Plan Check or Inspection 
Requirements.
Building Valuation on Those 
Building Permits Whose 
Valuation is Over $5,000
0.05%
G.
Construction Valuation of  
All Projects
0.59% of valuation
H.
Fee
 13 mills/$1,000 valuation
Residential (Minimum $0.50)
28 mills/$1,000 valuation
Non-Residential. (Minimum $0.50) 
I.
Fee
 $1/$25,000 valuation 
J.
Percentage
0.15% of valuation
K
All Required Permits
 Minimum of 100% of all building permit fees 
ADDITIONAL REQUIRED PLAN REVIEW & BUILDING 
PERMIT FEES
FIRE PLAN CHECK
*These fees are collected on behalf of the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department. The current fee charged may be higher than those listed. Please see the San 
Mateo Consolidated Fire Department's fee schedule for current fees that will be collected by the City of San Mateo on behalf of San Mateo Consolidated Fire 
Department at: smcfire.org/i-want-to
PLANNING SUPPORT FEE (PLAN 
CHECK/INSPECTION)
(Fee covers initial review and 2 resubmittals)  The fee will be 
charged for all projects which require a planning application, 
for new single-family homes and duplexes, and for any other 
permit application that requires review by the Planning  
Division.
ADDITIONAL PLAN REVIEW FEES FOR PROJECTS 
REVIEWED 4TH REVIEW AND BEYOND
PLAN CHECK FEES FOR IDENTICAL AND MIRROR 
IMAGE PLANS
PARKS AND RECREATION FEES
1. Park and Landscape Resources
2. Development Project Review Fee
PUBLIC WORKS SUPPORT FEE
This fee will be charged for building permit reviews related 
to approved Planning Applications
GENERAL PLAN MAINTENANCE FEE
STATE TAX
Strong motion instrumentation and seismic hazard mapping 
(Fee set by State of California).
BUILDING STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION SPECIAL 
REVOLVING FUND
TECHNOLOGY FEE
CONSTRUCTION WITHOUT A PERMIT
Penalty incurred when any construction is performed without 
a permit.
Page 2.4
120 of 302

--- page 121 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
IV.
A.
Per Hr (Min. 2 Hours)
$282.78 
B.
Per Hr (Min. 1 Hour)
$282.78 
C.
Per Hr
(Min. 1/2 Hour)
$294.87 
D.
Per Reactivation
$176.04 
E.
Per Hour
$244.27 
F.
Each
$644.77 
G.
Each
$907.73 
H.
$217.85 
I.
Per Permit
$100.00*
J.
Each
$905.00 
K.
1. Single Family Dwellings/Duplex's
Flat Fee
$539.14 
2. Multi-Family, Mixed Use/Commercial
0-5,000 Sq Ft
Flat Fee
$539.14 
Over 5,000 Sq Ft
Flat Fee
$962.75 
L.
1. Bathroom or Kitchen Remodels - Per Remodel
Each Combination Permit
$719.58 
M.
Flat Fee
$430.21 
N.
Flat Fee
$642.56 
O.
Each
$648.06 
P.
Each
$2,831.57 
Each
$2,031.12 
Each
$1,455.43 
Q.
Each
$1,454.02 
MISC. INSPECTIONS AND FEES
Applicable to building, plumbing, electrical and mechanical 
permits.
INSPECTIONS OUTSIDE OF NORMAL BUINESS 
HOURS 
REINSPECTION FEE
PLAN REVIEW REQUIRED BY CHANGES, ADDITIONS 
OR REVISIONS TO APPROVED PLANS, OR MORE 
THAN TWO RECHECKS
REACTIVIATION FEE FOR EXPIRED PERMITS (Use 
50% of original permit fee if permit fee is less than the 
reactivation fee)
APPLICATION FOR DEMOLITION OF RESIDENTIAL 
UNITS WHICH HAVE BEEN DECLARED A PUBLIC 
NUISANCE OR WHICH ARE BEING DEMOLISHED ON 
APPROVAL OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL UNDER 
SECTION 23.06.100.
APPLICATION FOR ALTERNATE MATERIALS AND 
CODE INTERPRETATIONS
PERMITS FOR SMALL ANIMAL & FOWL
RE-ROOF'S
COMBINATION BUILDING, PLUMBING, ELECTRICAL, 
AND MECHANICAL PERMITS FOR MINOR 
RESIDENTIAL REMODELS:
HARDSHIP WAIVER FOR DISABLED ACCESS 
REQUIREMENTS
WINDOW REPLACEMENTS FOR SINGLE FAMILY 
AND DUPLEX (same location, same size, 5 maximum)
WINDOW REPLACEMENTS FOR SINGLE FAMILY 
AND DUPLEX (same location, same size, more than 5)
PROTECTED TREE REMOVAL PERMIT
ADDRESS ASSIGNMENT FEE to be charged when 
assignment is not required as a conditioin of construction; 
charge for non-essential address changes only
See Parks & rec section page 8 for other costs VII. PARK 
AND LANDSCAPE RESOURCES
CALIFORNIA'S EARTHQUAKE BRACE AND BOLT 
RETROFIT PROGRAM
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
Remodel
New Construction
Eligible Manufacture, Pre-Fab, or Pre-Approved
Page 2.5
121 of 302

--- page 122 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
IV.
R.
Flat Fee
$450.00 
S.
1. Single Family Dwellings
Each Combination Permit
$450.00 
2. Multi-family Buildings
Up to 15 kW 
Each
$450.00 
16 kW and up
Each
$465.00 
+ $15.00 for each additional kW
3. Commercial Buildings
Up to 50 kW
Each
$1,000.00 
51 kW to 250 kW
Each
$1,007.00 
+ $7.00 for each additional kW up to 250 kW
251 kW and up
Each
$2,405.00 
+ $5.00 for each additional kW over 250 kW
T.
1. Single Family Dwellings
Each Combination Permit
$450.00 
2. Multi-family Buildings
Up to 15 kWth 
Each
$450.00 
16 kWth and up
Each
$450.00 
+ $15.00 for each additional kW
3. Commercial Buildings
Up to 30 kWth
Each
$1,000.00 
31 kWth to 260 kWth
Each
$1,007.00 
+ $7.00 for each additional kWth up to 260 kWth
261 kWth and up
Each
$2,615.00 
+ $5.00 for each additional kWth over 260 kWth
U.
1. Single Family Dwellings & Duplexes
Each
$213.45 
2. Multi-Family/Commercial (Level I/II)
1-6 Stations
Flat Fee
$600.76 
7+ Stations
Flat Fee
$1,129.99 
Multi-Family/Commercial (Level III)
1-6 Stations
Each
$981.45 
7+ Stations
Each
$1,464.47 
V.
Each
$481.92 
V.
ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES
A.
RESIDENTIAL ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$289.37 
B.
COMMERCIAL ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$1,245.52 
C.
Sq Ft.
$0.24 
D.
Each
$924.24 
MISC. INSPECTIONS AND FEES (continued)
Applicable to building, plumbing, electrical and mechanical 
permits.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (Fee set by State of California 
AB-1124; sunsets 1/1/2025)
SOLAR THERMAL SYSTEMS (Fee set by State of 
California AB-1124; sunsets 1/1/2025)
ELECTRICAL VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS
NEW ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS ONLY (Fee set by 
State of California AB-1124; sunsets 1/1/2025)
TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS: 
ELECTRICAL WORK ONLY
ELECTRICAL REWIRING FOR SFR AND DUPLEX
Page 2.6
122 of 302

--- page 123 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
VI. MECHANICAL PERMIT FEES
A.
RESIDENTIAL MECHANICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$289.37 
B.
COMMERCIAL MECHANICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$962.75 
C.
Sq Ft.
$0.24 
D.
Each
$828.51 
VII. PLUMBING PERMIT FEES
A.
RESIDENTIAL PLUMBING PERMIT FEE
 Each 
$289.37 
B.
COMMERCIAL PLUMBING PERMIT FEE
 Each 
$962.75 
C.
Sq Ft.
$0.24 
D.
TANKLESS WATER HEATER
 Each 
$507.23 
E.
 Each 
$924.24 
VIII. SIGN PERMIT FEES**
Permit fee determined by Commercial Valuation Table
 Each 
$217.85 
IX. CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE
 Per Sq. Ft. 
A.
Per Dwelling Unit
$4,677.29
Per Dwelling Unit
$3,373.46
B.
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.39
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.67
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.22
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.14
X.
A.
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$13.11 
B.
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$6.55 
C.
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$32.76 
XI.
 Each 
1.19% of valuation
HVAC INSTALLATIONS (RELOCATIONS AND NEW 
INSTALLATIONS FOR SFR AND DUPLEX)
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS: 
PLUMBING WORK ONLY
All permanent signs
Temporary Banner (30-day)
**PENALTY: When a sign permit is required and a sign is installed prior to obtaining a permit, a double fee shall be charged.
HOTELS
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS: 
MECHANICAL WORK ONLY
RETAIL, RESTAURANTS, AND SERVICES
OFFICE, RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT USES, AND 
MEDICAL OFFICES
ART IN PUBLIC PLACE FEE
The fee is applicable to commercial and multi-family residential 
projects exceeding three (3) million dollars in total building 
valuation, excluding land acquisition and off-site improvement 
costs.
2. Multi-family
3. Industrial
4. Hotel
COMMERCIAL LINKAGE FEE
(City Council adopted September 16, 2016 - effective November 
16, 2016)
New commercial construction in excess of 5,000 
Exempts public uses such as hospitals, nonprofit and government 
facilities, churches, schools and child care centers. Developers 
who enter written agreements to pay area standard wages to all 
construction workers on the project are entitled to a 25% 
reduction of the fee. Additionally, developers may provide 
construction of affordable housing units in lieu of the fee 
t
REPIPE FOR WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS FOR SFR 
AND DUPLEX
Residential
1. Single-family
2. Office
1. Retail
Commercial
Page 2.7
123 of 302

--- page 124 ---
UNIT
I.
1.
First Citation
$100.00
If not Abated, Second Citation
$200.00
If not Abated, Third Citation
$500.00
II.
First Citation
$200.00
If not Abated, Second Citation
$300.00
If not Abated, Third Citation
$500.00
III.
Each Case
Actual Cost *
IV.
Each Appeal
$565.00
V.
Each Inspection
$100.00
ABATEMENT ORDER VIOLATION CORRECTION RE-INSPECTION 
FEE
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
CODE ENFORCEMENT
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
 FEE 
NUISANCE ABATEMENT FEES FOR VIOLATIONS OF THE SMMC 
WHICH ARE SUBJECT TO ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION PER 
SMMC 1.10.
Violations of the SMMC Administrative Citation Ordinance which have 
been abated within 10 days of service and verified by the Code 
Enforcement Division have a reduced fee.
NUISANCE ABATEMENT FEES FOR VIOLATIONS OF THE SAME 
SMMC SECTION WITHIN 12 MONTHS OF INITIAL CITATION
VIOLATIONS OF THE SMMC REQUIRING 1) ORDER OF 
ABATEMENT, 2) AN INSPECTION OF SEIZURE WARRANT, 3) A 
POSTING OF AN ORDER DESIGNATING THE PROPERTY AS 
UNSAGE TO OCCUPY, 4) THE COMMENCEMENT OF THE CIVIL 
LITIGATION PROCEEDINGS OR 5) SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF 
*Actual Cost includes all costs of abatement, including, but not limited to: code 
enforcement staff, and associated indirect costs, such as labor, equipment, private 
contractor, materials, materials storage, and all other costs reasonable and 
necessary to abate the nuisance.
APPEAL OF A DECISION OR ORDER TO ABATE
Page 3.1
124 of 302

--- page 125 ---
CHARGE TYPE
FEE OR INITIAL DEPOSIT
I.
PLANNING APPLICATIONS
A. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- ZONING ADMINISTRATOR 
DECISION (SINGLE FAMILY ONLY OR CERTIFICATE OF 
PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY - ALCOHOLIC 
BEVERAGES)
Initial Deposit
$4,000.00
B. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- ZONING ADMINISTRATOR 
DECISION (OTHER THAN SINGLE FAMILY OR PCNs)
Initial Deposit
$6,000.00
C. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- PLANNING COMMISSION 
DECISION - IF NO PRE-APPLICATION REQUIRED
Initial Deposit
$10,000.00
D. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- PLANNING COMMISSION 
DECISION - IF PRE-APPLICATION REQUIRED
Initial Deposit
$50,000.00
E. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- PLANNING COMMISSION & 
CITY COUNCIL DECISION 
Initial Deposit
$100,000.00
F. FENCE EXCEPTION SPAR PLANNING APPLICATION
Initial Deposit
$2,000.00
G. SPECIAL USE PERMIT - DAY CARE FACILITIES
Flat fee
$2,000.00
H. ANNUAL REVIEW OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
Initial Deposit
$4,500.00
I.
DESIGN REVIEW BY CONSULTING ARCHITECT (required for 
projects with 6+ units, 10,000+ SF non-residential; or other projects 
as determined by City Resolution)
Initial Deposit
$5,000.00
J.
LARGE PROJECT PRE-APPLICATION
Initial Deposit
$25,000.00
K. INFORMATIONAL NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING (PRE-
APPLICATION) PUBLIC NOTICE LIST PREPARATION
Flat Fee
$500.00
L. MODIFICATIONS OF APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATIONS-
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR DECISION
Initial Deposit
$3,000.00
M. MODIFICATIONS OF APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATIONS-
PLANNING COMMISSION DECISION
Initial Deposit
$10,000.00
II.
ENVIRONMENTAL CLEARANCE (CEQA) PROCESSING
A. CATEGORICAL OR STATUTORY EXEMPTION (Excluding 
Single Family and PCNs)
Initial Deposit
$500.00
B. INITIAL STUDY/NEGATIVE DECLARATION
Initial Deposit
$5,000.00
C. INITIAL STUDY/EIR
Initial Deposit
$10,000.00
D. MANDATED FEDERAL, STATE OR COUNTY FEES (e.g., Fish 
& Game CEQA Fee; Fish & Game Code §711.4; Negative 
Declaration; EIR)
As Mandated by State
N/A
III. CITY STAFF TIME
Planning Staff
Hourly Rate
$291.50
All City departments reviewing a planning application.
Hourly Rate
Actual Cost
IV. MONITORING OF REQUIRED MITIGATION MEASURE
Initial Deposit for 
Determined for each project.
V.
INVESTIGATION
FEE for properties with code violations before or after planning 
approval.
Hourly Rate
$291.50
VI. RESEARCH FEE
A. RETRIEVAL OF OFF-SITE PLANNING APPLICATION 
Flat Fee
$180.20
B. RESEARCH REQUIRING EXTENSIVE STAFF TIME
Hourly Rate
$291.50
C. POST PLANNING APPLICATION PROJECT CONSULTATION
Hourly Rate
$291.50
VII. APPEALS
A. APPEAL FEE - ALL PLANNING APPLICATIONS
Flat Fee
$565.00
VIII. LANDSCAPE UNIT IN-LIEU FEES
Per Landscape Unit
$357.07
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
PLANNING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 4.1
125 of 302

--- page 126 ---
CHARGE TYPE
FEE OR INITIAL DEPOSIT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
PLANNING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
IX. SUBORDINATION PROCESSING FEE
Applies to requests to allow City Housing Program loans to 
subordinate to new mortgage lenders in conjunction with refinances.
Per Loan
$250.00
X.
A. In Lieu Fees for Fractional Units
1. Rental
0.1 Housing Unit
$33,452.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$66,903.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$100,355.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$133,807.00
2. Owner
0.1 Housing Unit
$30,701.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$61,401.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$92,102.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$122,802.00
B. In Lieu Fee for Projects Less than 11 Units
1. Rental
5 Unit Project
$167,259.00
6 Unit Project
$200,710.00
7 Unit Project
$234,162.00
8 Unit Project
$267,614.00
9 Unit Project
$301,065.00
10 Unit Project
$334,517.00
2. Owner
5 Unit Project
$153,503.00
6 Unit Project
$184,203.00
7 Unit Project
$214,904.00
8 Unit Project
$245,604.00
9 Unit Project
$276,305.00
10 Unit Project
$307,005.00
XI. POLICIES RE: PLANNING FEES
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.
H.
The cost for staff time expended by all city staff pursuant to a planning application shall be billed to the project account at the 
hourly rate in section III.
Under extenuating circumstances, the Community Development Director has the authority to set a deposit amount below the 
amount indicated in the fee schedule.
"Planning applications" include: site plan and architectural review; special use permit; temporary use permit; variance; site 
development permit; subdivision and parcel maps; reclassification; planned development; general plan amendment; specific plan 
amendment; code amendments regarding land use regulation; development agreements, downtown economic development permit;  
planned signing districts and freestanding signs over 8 feet in commercial districts, single family dwelling design review (SFDDR), 
mills act contract, historic building survey amendment,  historic building demolition permit and other planning applications as set 
forth in Chapter 27 of the San Mateo Municipal Code.
BELOW MARKET RATE HOUSING FEE
A fee in lieu of constructing affordable housing units onsite per Below 
Market Rate program:
If the cost of the staff time spent on the application(s) is less than the amount of the deposit, the balance shall be refunded to the 
applicant.
If at any time before action is taken on an application, more than 70% of the deposit has been expended on the application, the 
applicant shall be required to pay an additional deposit.
No public hearing on a planning application shall be held unless all deposits requested have been fully paid. No application by an 
applicant shall be accepted as complete pursuant to title 27 of the San Mateo Municipal Code if that applicant has failed to pay 
amounts due and payable for another planning application.
The applicant is responsible for paying the costs of staff and consultant time incurred pursuant to any appeal.
The applicant shall pay the actual cost of any consultant services required to process a planning application including the 
environmental (CEQA) clearance processing.
Page 4.2
126 of 302

--- page 127 ---
UNIT
FEE
I. BUSINESS LICENSE LISTING
Each Qtr.
$32.00
II. RETURNED CHECK PROCESSING CHARGE
(Non-sufficient fund checks and other issues)
Each
$25.00
III. STATE MANDATED DISABILITY ACCESS FEE (SB 1186)
On each Business Tax application and renewal
Each
$4.00
IV. NEW BUSINESS - FIRE INSPECTION
Each
See Note Below* 
V. COLLECTION REFERRAL CHARGE
Each
$25.00
FINANCE
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
*This fee is collected on behalf of the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department. Please see the San Mateo Consolidated Fire 
Department's fee schedule for current fees that will be collected by the City of San Mateo on behalf of San Mateo Consolidated 
Fire Department at: smcfire.org/i-want-to
Page 5.1
127 of 302

--- page 128 ---
UNIT
FEE
I.
A. GIS SERVICES
Hour
$91.00
Additional Time (Hourly)
$91.00
B. HARDCOPY PLOTS OF CITY MAPS
Each
$16.75
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
GIS MAPPING / ELECTRONIC DATA FEES
Page 6.1
128 of 302

--- page 129 ---
UNIT
FEE
I. FINES
A. OVERDUE MATERIAL
1. Adult  Materials
Per Day & Per Item
N/A
2. Juvenile Materials
Per Day & Per Item
N/A
No overdue fines for borrowers ages 19 & under
3. Technology Lending Devices
Per Day & Per Item
$1.00
a. Cleaning Fee for Devices
Per Item
$10.00
B. OVERDUE MAXIMUM FINE
1. Adult
Per Item
N/A
2. Juvenile
Per Item
N/A
C. LINK + SERVICE
1. Overdue materials
Per Day & Per Item
N/A
2. Overdue maximum fine
Per Item
N/A
3. Replacement charges
Per Item
$115.00
II. FEES
A.
Per Item
Price of material
+ processing fee of $5.00
B. COPY CHARGES
1. Photocopy machine
a. Black/white copies
Per Copy
$0.15
2. Computer printer copy
a. Black/white copies
Per Page After 3 Pages
$0.15
b. Microform reader-printer
Per Copy
$0.15
c. Color computer printer copy
Per Copy
$0.30
C. COMMUNITY MEETING ROOMS, MAIN LIBRARY
1. Oak Room and courtyard
a. Non profit/not for profit (business hours)
$205.00 for 1st 4 hours
+ $30 each additional hour
b. Non profit/not for profit (after hours)
Per Hour
$175.00
c. Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$140.00
 Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$210.00
d. Non-Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$210.00
Non-Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$275.00
e. San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$210.00
San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$315.00
f. Non San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$315.00
Non San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$420.00
g. Music recitals
Per Use (Up to 3 Hours)
$160.00
h. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
$360.00
2. Laurel and Cedar Rooms
a. Non profit/not for profit (business hours)
$110.00 for 1st 4 hours
+ $20 each additional hour
b. Non profit/not for profit (after hours)
Per Hour
$105.00
c. Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$105.00
 Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$210.00
d. Non-Resident (business hours) 
Per Hour
$140.00
Non-Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$245.00
e. San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$210.00
San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$315.00
f. Non San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$315.00
Non San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$420.00
g. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
$260.00
REPLACEMENT CHARGE FOR EACH ITEM LOST OR 
DAMAGED
LIBRARY
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 7.1
129 of 302

--- page 130 ---
UNIT
FEE
LIBRARY
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
II. FEES (continued)
3. Library computer training room
a. Non profit/not for profit Use of:
1 -10 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$210.00 per every 4 hrs
11 - 20 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$280.00 per every 4 hrs
21 – 26 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$355.00 per every 4 hrs
b. Resident or Non-Resident Use of:
1 -10 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$210.00 per every 4 hrs
11 - 20 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$280.00 per every 4 hrs
21 – 26 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$355.00 per every 4 hrs
c. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
$500.00
d. A/V Technician Use of:
1 - 10 computers
Per Use
$40.00
11 - 20 computers
Per Use
$80.00
21 – 26 computers
Per Use
$130.00
4. Library – Other Areas
a. Other Library areas – fees to be determined on a case-by-case
basis by City Librarian or designee
Per Hour/Per Area
Up to $410.00
b. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
Up to $500.00
5. Miscellaneous Meeting Room Fees
a. A/V Technician
Per Use
$40.00
A/V Technician – special projects
Per Hour
$60.00
b. Portable Stage rental:
Single stage (8’x6’x16”)
Per Use
$175.00
Double stage (16’x6’x16”)
Per Use
$245.00
c. Conference Phone rental
Per Use
$40.00
d. Piano tuning (special request)
Each
$205.00
D. COMPUTER FILES STORAGE DEVICES
1. USB flash drive
Each
$15.00
E. MATERIAL RECOVERY FEE
Per Account
$10.00
F. LIBRARY LOGO REUSABLE BAGS
Each
$2.50
G.
1. One-time use fee per digital file for any medium
a. Personal/non profit use
Each
$20.00
b. For profit/commercial use
Each
$40.00
III. RESEARCH SERVICE
A. OBITUARY SEARCH SERVICE
Each
$20.00
Search for Non-San
Mateo County residents
USE FEES FOR PHOTOGRAPHS FROM DIGITAL ARCHIVES
Page 7.2
130 of 302

--- page 131 ---









PARKS AND RECREATION
RECREATION COST RECOVERY AND PRICING POLICY*
The following shall serve as the policy guidance for establishing a Recreation Activities Cost Recovery Plan, developing annual activity budgets, and establishing fees to be charged 
for recreation activities. The specific elements of this policy are that:
The Park and Recreation Cost Recovery and Pricing Model shall be used.
In recognition of the wide variety of service values and revenue generating potentials of various activities, specific cost recovery thresholds shall be 
established for each recreation activity area at the most specific programming level that is administratively practical.
The thresholds shall include both minimum and target levels of cost recovery.
Strategies for achieving the minimum and target thresholds shall be established by staff for each activity area. These strategies may include immediate or 
gradual action depending upon the best interests of maintaining a strong program, achieving the target within a reasonable time period and current fiscal 
conditions.
Activity areas unable to meet their minimum threshold after these strategies have been applied shall be reviewed by the Park and Recreation Commission for 
consideration of recommending appropriate action: reduce costs; reduce cost recovery target; eliminate activity.
Activities that have achieved or exceeded their target threshold shall be evaluated to determine if the target can/should be increased.
 The Cost Recovery Plan shall, where appropriate, also include specific other fee considerations (e.g. benchmarking to a specific competitor) that may 
supersede cost recovery target considerations.
Once a Cost Recovery Plan is established, and within that context, staff shall have the authority to set and adjust fees, except that no fee increase shall 
exceed 20% within a 1-year period without the review of the Park and Recreation Commission and approval of the City Council.
As part of the budgetary process, the Park and Recreation Commission shall review the Cost Recovery Plan and the performance of each activity compared 
to the plan and make any recommendations for changes to the plan.
Page 8.1
131 of 302

--- page 132 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
Operating Indirect Overhead (Op IOH): Division level and shared costs, such as departmental management, brochure, printing, 
photocopying, training, accounting support, technology, credit card discount costs, administrative office clerical support, computer, and 
recreation equipment sinking fund charges
Facility Indirect Overhead (Fac IOH): Calculated charges for the Public Works Building Maintenance for on-going maintenance and 
repairs (e.g. plumbing, electrical, mechanical, carpentry, painting).
Recreation Cost Tier Definitions
Direct: The specific “go-away” costs at the course or activity level. These include leaders, instructors and materials or services (e.g. 
transportation) specific to the course or activity.
Program Direct Overhead (DOH): Direct supervision of the program, and minor miscellaneous items such as supervisor mileage.
Facility Overhead (FOH): The combination of facility direct costs (the day-to-day costs to keep the building open- receptionist, custodial 
services, custodial products, utilities) and facility direct overhead (primarily facility supervision).
Page 8.2
132 of 302

--- page 133 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
MINIMUM
Direct
Direct
75% Direct
Direct
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
MINIMUM
Direct
50% of Direct
100% Subsidy
Direct
Direct
Direct
Direct
Direct
Direct
Summer Flex Camps
Recreation Swim
ACTIVITY
Swimming Lessons
King Center Teen Programs
Building Blocks
TARGET
Through FOH
Through DOH
Direct
Through DOH
100% Subsidy
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
Benchmark fees to bottom end of Peninsula cities
Benchmark fees to mid-point of Peninsula cities
King Center Drop-In
Senior Services Link
Group 2- Composed of core programs for youth and seniors, with service values as higher consideration. Typical thresholds ranges: Minimum- Direct 
cost recovery. Target- Through Direct Overhead (DOH).
ACTIVITY
Children's Services Center Based Programs
King Center Children's Programs
Youth Art
Youth Gymnastics
Teen Dances
Senior Center Programs
Senior Center Special Events
Children's Services Special Events
Youth Dance/Dance Shows
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
Benchmark fees to mid-point of Peninsula cities.
RECREATION PROGRAMS COST RECOVERY PLAN - TABLE OF TARGETS
Group 1- Highest service value consideration- composed of core youth programs. Typical thresholds ranges: Minimum- From 100% subsidy to direct 
cost recovery. Target- From 100% subsidy through Direct Overhead (DOH).
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
TARGET
Direct +20%
Direct
100% Subsidy
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Direct
Direct
Through DOH
Page 8.3
133 of 302

--- page 134 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
MINIMUM
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Direct + additional 
required office staffing
Through DOH
67% of food costs
MINIMUM
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
NOTE:
*
Fees established through the Recreation Cost Recovery and Pricing Policy shall be collected at the time of course registration, with certain 
exceptions. Prior to completion of a course, patrons may withdraw from a course and receive a refund. Refunds may be returned immediately 
or left on account with the Recreation Division.
Does not include special non-general fund revenues or expenses from grants, trust, etc.
Adult Fitness
Youth Fitness
Full Cost Recovery
Adult Music/Drama
Adult Dance
Through FOH
Through FOH
Direct
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Specialized Aquatics Programs
Group 4- Composed primarily of specialty activities, with cost recovery considerations of highest consideration among the 4 groups. Typical thresholds 
ranges: Minimum- Through Direct Overhead (DOH). Target- range of from through Facility Overhead (FOH) to full recovery.
ACTIVITY
Through Operating 
Benchmark fees to less than top of market.
Fees less than top of market.
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
TARGET
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Adult Swimfit
Tennis
Adult Sports Leagues
Adult Arts and Crafts
Senior Lunch
Golf Lessons
Youth Music/Drama
Through FOH
Benchmark fees to San Mateo Foster City School 
Through FOH
Youth Sports Camps
Miscellaneous Athletic Activities
Beresford Kids Club
Through FOH
Through FOH
Ice Skating
Youth Leisure Education
Adults Leisure Education
Martial Arts
Through Operating 
Indirect Overhead
Through FOH
Through FOH
TARGET
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
RECREATION PROGRAMS COST RECOVERY PLAN - TABLE OF TARGETS (continued)
Group 3- Composed primarily of adult core, and youth additional typical programs, in which both service and cost recovery values are of strong 
consideration. Typical thresholds ranges: Minimum- Through Direct Overhead (DOH). Target- Through Facility Overhead (FOH)
ACTIVITY
Page 8.4
134 of 302

--- page 135 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
 UNIT 
FEES EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 12/31/24
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/25
I.
FACILITY RENTAL FEES
A.
Small Picnic Area (up to 30)
Beresford Park
Areas 1 or 3
Per Use
$71.00
$73.00
Bocce Court Tables
Per Use
$71.00
$73.00
Per Use
$71.00
$73.00
Indian Springs Park
Per Use
$71.00
$73.00
King Park
Per Use
$71.00
$73.00
Lakeshore Park Area 1, 2 or 3
Per Use
$71.00
$73.00
Laurelwood Park
Per Use
$71.00
$73.00
Laurie Meadows Park Area 1 or 2
Per Use
$71.00
$73.00
Paddock Park
Per Use
$71.00
$73.00
Medium Picnic Area (31-60)
Beresford Park Area 2
Per Use
$93.00
$96.00
Casanova Park
Per Use
$93.00
$96.00
Central Park Area 2, 3, or 4
Per Use
$93.00
$96.00
Joinville Park Area 1, 2 or 3
Per Use
$93.00
$96.00
Los Prados Park
Per Use
$93.00
$96.00
Parkside Aquatic Park
Per Use
$93.00
$96.00
Ryder Park Area 1, or 2
Per Use
$93.00
$96.00
Large Picnic Area (61+)
Central Park Area 1
Per Use
$195.00
$200.00
Shoreview Park
Per Use
$195.00
$200.00
Beresford Park Shelter
Per Use
$233.00
$240.00
Miscellaneous Fees
Alcohol Fee 
Per Use
$53.00
$55.00
Jumper Fee
Per Use
$26.50
$28.00
Catering Services Vendor Fee
Per Use
N/A
$28.00
Non-resident picnic reservation surcharge
Per Use
$20.00
$20.00
Non-Profit groups (Classification B) are eligible for 25% discount)
Discount Per Use
-25%
-25%
Picnic Re-scheduling Fee
Per Use
N/A
$20.00
Picnic Use/Cleanup Fee
All areas if needed
Per Use
$270.00
$278.00
Picnic Cancellation Fee
At least 10 working days prior to the permit date
Per use
$20.00
$20.00
Less than 10 working days prior to the permit date
Per use
$20.00
$20.00
Picnic Re-Scheduling Fee
Per use
N/A
$20.00
PICNIC AREAS
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Harborview Park
The approved applicant and/or organization will be responsible for any damage or loss sustained to 
the grounds, building, furnishings, and equipment (or unusual clean-up required), as a result of the 
applicant's an/or organization's occupancy of the facility.
Page 8.5
135 of 302

--- page 136 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
 UNIT 
FEES EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 12/31/24
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/25
B. SPECIAL PARK PERMITS 
Filming for commercial purposes 
Hour
$53.00
$54.00
Central outdoor stage
Per Hour
$55.00
$56.00
Special Event Fee (minimum two hours)
Per Hour
$25.00
$25.00
Special Event Alcohol Fee
Per Use
$275.00
$275.00
C. Japanese Garden or Rose Garden Fees
Resident
First 2 hours
$215.00
$220.00
Non-Resident
First 2 hours
$270.00
$277.00
Resident Extra Hours
Per Additional Hour
$105.00
$107.00
Non Resident Extra Hours
Per Additional Hour
$132.00
$135.00
Non-Profit Rate 
Per Booking (2 HOURS)
$31.00
$31.00 
Chair Set-up
Per Use
$29.00
$29.00 
Fee to rent Japanese or Rose Garden when renting in conjunction with Central Center
Per Use
$150.00
$154.00
II.
Field Reservations
Priority 1
No fee
No fee
Priority 2
Youth Field Player Fee (Per season)
Per Player
$8.00  $             8.00 
Weekday and Half Day
Per Use
$8.00  $             8.00 
Weekend/Holiday/Full Day 
Per Use
$15.00  $           15.00 
Tournament
Per Hour/Field
$105.00
$13.00
Tournament Refundable Deposit
Per Use/Field
$275.00
$280.00
Priority 3-4
Youth Field Player Fee (Per season)
Per Player
$21.00
$22.00
Weekday and Half Day
Per Use
$31.00
$32.00
Weekend/Holiday/Full Day 
Per Use
$53.00
$55.00
Tournament
Per Hour/Field
$220.00
$28.00
Tournament Refundable Deposit
Per Use/Field
$275.00
$280.00
Priority 5
Resident Adult Field Reservation (Per season)
Per Hour
$26.00
$27.00
Priority 6
NR Adult Reservation Field
Per Hour
$34.00
$34.00
Camp or Clinic Fee
Soccer (Grass)
Per Hour
$53.00
$55.00
Soccer (Turf)
Per Hour
$63.00
$65.00
Baseball/Softball (Grass)
Per Hour
$42.00
$44.00
Baseball/Softball (Turf)
Per Hour
$53.00
$55.00
Non-Athletic based NP Field Reservation
Per Hour
$15.00
$16.00
Private Tournament
Per Hour/Field
$225.00
$29.00
Refundable Deposit
Per Use/Field
$280.00
$280.00
Light Charges
Per Hour
$29.00
$30.00
Fields - Unlocked Soccer Goal Fee 
Per Request
$31.00
$32.00
Field Attendant
Per Hour
$22.00
$23.00
Tennis Court Rental for Organizations
Per Hour
$12.50
$12.50
Tennis Court Reservation
Per Hour
$9.50
$9.50
Bocce Courts (4 hours or less) 
Per Booking
$11.50
$11.50
Bocce Courts (4+ hours) 
Per Booking
$26.00
$26.00
Outdoor Fitness Fee
Per Hour
$26.00
$27.00
San Mateo High School Gymnasium Rentals
Gym
Per Hour
$105.00
$108.00
Lobby
Per Hour
$31.00
$32.00
Dance Studio
Per Hour
$42.00
$44.00
Multi-Purpose Room
Per Hour
$42.00
$44.00
Facility Specialist
Per Hour 
N/A
$23.00
Custodian
Per Hour
N/A
$32.00
Tournament Refundable Deposit
Per Use
N/A
$280.00
ATHLETICS (Priority Levels defined on page 8.13)
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 8.6
136 of 302

--- page 137 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
UNIT
FEES EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 12/31/24
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/25
III.
AQUATICS - (See Classification Categories on page 8.12)
A. CENTER RENTALS - (See pages 8.10 - 8.12)
JOINVILLE
Large Pool (includes Dressing Room)
Classification A
No Charge
No Charge
Classification B
$25.00
$25.00
Classification C
$36.00
$36.00
Non-Resident
$44.00
$44.00
Small Pool (includes Dressing Room)
Classification A
No Charge
No Charge
Classification B
$12.00
$12.00
Classification C
$18.00
$18.00
Non-Resident
$22.00
$22.00
Multi-Purpose Room
See Community Centers 
Category 4 (pg 8.11)
See Community 
Centers 
Category 4 (pg 
8.11)
Off Season Closure Period
By negotiation - full cost 
recovery
By negotiation - 
full cost recovery
BIRTHDAY PARTY FEE
Reservation Fee/Deposit
Includes 15 Guests
$95.00
$95.00
Additional Guests
Up to 20 Guests
$6.00
$6.00
KING POOL
Both Pools (includes Dressing Room)
Classification A
No Charge
No Charge
Classification B
$20.00
$20.00
Classification C
$30.00
$30.00
Non-Resident
$37.00
$37.00
Off Season Closure Period
By negotiation - full cost 
recovery
By negotiation - 
full cost recovery
FACILITY PERS. RATES
Custodian
Per Hour
Staff Rate
$32.00
Facility Specialist
Per Hour
Staff Rate
$23.00
LIFEGUARDS
1st Guard - Senior Guard
Per Hour
Staff Rate
Staff Rate
2nd & each additional Guard
Per Hour
Staff Rate
Staff Rate
IV.
MISCELLANEOUS FEES
Volleyball net and standards rental
Per Weekend
$30.00
$30.00
Bocce Set
Per Set
$30.00
$30.00
Equipment Refundable Deposit
$100.00
$100.00
Photocopies
Per Page
$0.15
$0.15
V.
SCHOOL DISTRICT FEES
A.  
B.  
UNIT
FEES EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 6/30/24
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
7/1/24
VI.
GOLF COURSE
A.  GENERAL
Weekdays
Per Round
$43.00
$44.00
Weekday Twilight
Per Round
$32.00
$33.00
Weekday Super Twilight
Per Round
$24.00
$24.00
Weekends (Fri., Sat., Sun., Holiday) 
Per Round
$59.00
$60.00
Weekend Twilight
Per Round
$39.00
$40.00
Weekend Super Twilight 
Per Round
$31.00
$32.00
Weekday-back 9
Per Round
$26.00
$26.00
Weekend-back 9
Per Round
$30.00
$30.00
Sr. 10 Play Card
Each
$330.00
$340.00
B. RESIDENT
Weekdays
Per Round
$38.00
$39.00
Weekday Twilight
Per Round
$32.00
$33.00
Weekday Super Twilight
Per Round
$24.00
$24.00
Weekends (Fri., Sat., Sun., Holiday) 
Per Round
$51.00
$52.00
Weekend Twilight
Per Round
$39.00
$40.00
Weekend Super Twilight 
Per Round
$31.00
$31.00
Weekday-back 9
Per Round
$26.00
$26.00
Weekend-back 9
Per Round
$30.00
$30.00
Senior Weekdays
Per Round
$33.00
$34.00
Sr. 10 Play Card
Each
$280.00
$290.00
C. JUNIOR
Jr. Weekdays
Per Round
$17.00
$17.00
Jr. Weekend
Per Round
$22.00
$22.00
D. RESIDENT GOLF I.D. CARD
Per Annual Fee
$20.00
$20.00
E. RANGE BALLS (BUCKET)
Size: Warm-up
$5.00
$5.00
Small
$8.00
$8.00
Medium
$11.00
$11.00
Large
$14.00
$14.00
F. MEMBERSHIP SUBSCRIPTION
Per Month
$29.99
$29.99
Golf Fees ‐ The Parks and Recreation Director may adjust green fee amounts for 
marketing and promotional activities as is necessary to encourage optimum play at 
the municipal golf courses.
SAN MATEO FOSTER CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT (SMFCSD)
Unless otherwise specified in an adopted facility use agreement, indoor and athletic facility fees shall be calculated administratively to be comparable to the SMFCSD fee 
schedule as it pertains to City use of similar SMFCSD facilities. Picnic and special park facility fees, and staffing fees charged to SMFCSD shall be at the rates described in other 
sections of the fee schedule. Pool fees for SMFCSD use shall be charged at the non-profit rate.
Fees shall be applied to the district and affiliated organizations (eg. PTA, Boosters, Foundation) as follows:
SAN MATEO HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
Unless otherwise specified in an adopted facility use agreement, indoor, swimming pool and athletic facility fees shall be calculated administratively to be comparable to the 
SMUHSD fee schedule as it pertains to City use of similar SMUHSD facilities.
Picnic and special park facility fees, and staffing fees charged to SMUHSD shall be at the rates described in other sections of the fee schedule.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 8.7
137 of 302

--- page 138 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
UNIT
FEES EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 12/31/24
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/25
VII.
PARK AND LANDSCAPE RESOURCES
A.  HERITAGE TREE PERMIT
Per Permit
$105.00
$107.00
Tree Replacement Cost (24" Box Tree)
Per Tree
$784.00
$805.00
Right of Way Tree Removal
Per Hour
Actual cost charged by 
a city designated 
private tree care 
company
Actual cost 
charged by a 
city designated 
private tree 
care company
B. MEMORIAL BENCH
Per Bench
$2,650.00
$2,650.00
C. TREE REPLACEMENT COST (15 gallon)
Each
$490.00
$503.00
D. TREE REPLACEMENT COST (36 inch box)
Each
$1,550.00
$1,593.00
E. TREE REPLACEMENT COST (48 inch box)
Each
$3,130.00
$3,217.00
F. COMMEMORATIVE TREE
Per Tree
$1,060.00
$1,089.00
G. COMMUNITY GARDENS - Community Garden Plots
Per Square Ft.
$0.30
$0.30
H.
Each
$550.00
$565.00
I. MARINA LAGOON
Boating pass (power boats 5 hp and up)
Annual
$450.00
$450.00
Daily
$40.00
$40.00
Boating pass (under 5 hp and sail over 8 ft.)
Annual
$250.00
$250.00
Daily
$25.00
$25.00
UNIT
FEES EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 6/30/24
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
7/1/24
J.
Each
$100.00
$100.00
Per Residential Unit Type:
Per Unit*
Per Unit*
Single Family
$29,029.40
$25,914.00
Multi-family 2-4 Units
$23,385.00
$25,474.00
Multi-family 5+ Units
$20,351.00
$18,510.00
Single Family
2.94
                                          
persons per unit
Multi-family 2-4 units
2.89
                                          
persons per unit
Multi-family 5+ units
2.10
                                          
persons per unit
UNIT
FEES EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 12/31/24
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/25
VIII.
A.
Fee is per Consultant's 
rate
Fee is per 
Consultant's 
rate
B.
Building Valuation on Those 
Building Permits Whose 
Valuation is Over $5,000
0.05%
0.05%
REIMBURSE COST OF STAFF OR CONSULTANT TIME SPENT IN PLAN CHECK OR 
INSPECTION SERVICES. PARK PLAN CHECK AND INSPECTION SERVICES ON BUILDING 
PERMITS. FEE TO BE COLLECTED AT TIME OF BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATION. AFTER 
PAYMENT OF FEES, PERMITTEE MAY APPLY FOR AN EXEMPTION FOR PROJECTS HAVING 
NO PARK PLAN CHECK OR INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
PARK IN-LIEU FEE / PARK IMPACT FEE FOR RESIDENTIAL PLANNING APPLICATION 
PROJECTS INVOLVING PARCEL MAPS, SUBDIVISION AND OTHER MULTI-FAMILY 
RESIDENTIAL PROJECTS.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT REVIEW FEE1
CONSULTANTS FOR SPECIALIZED PLAN CHECKING AND INSPECTION SERVICES OR TO 
EXPEDITE PLAN CHECKING AND INSPECTION SERVICES
HERITAGE TREE APPEAL TO PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSION (Applicant Exempt from 
Fee)
1These fees are collected by Community Development's Building Division - see page 2.3
K.
* Fee = Land Dedication Requirement x Median Land Value of $4,407,190 per acre adopted by City Council Resolution, where Land Dedication Requirement = [(Quantity of proposed dwelling units x 
population factor per dwelling unit type) less (quantity of existing dwelling units x population factor per dwelling unit type)] x (2 acres/ 1000 population) per Muni Code Section 26.64. The population 
factors per dwelling unit type are as follows:
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
TEMPORARY PARK ACCESS PERMIT
Page 8.8
138 of 302

--- page 139 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
1
2
3
4
-
$           
-
$                             
-
$              
 $       -   
40.00
$       
30.00
$                         
25.00
$           
 $  15.00 
120.00
$     
95.00
$                         
75.00
$           
 $  40.00 
150.00
$     
120.00
$                       
95.00
$           
 $  50.00 
Per Hour
Non-residents, Businesses and schools 
(other than San Mateo Union High 
School District and San Mateo-Foster 
City School District per Section IV).
B: Non-Profit or Not-For-Profit groups 
serving the majority of City of San 
Mateo residents and whose membership 
is open to  the general public.          
Non -Profit as defined as 501c through 
the IRS. Not-For-Profit as approved by 
the Parks and Recreation Director or 
approved delegate. 
Per Use
C: Residents of the City of San Mateo
Per Hour
Bookings on weekends or during non-operating hours will 
be charged:
• $50.00 additional per hour. 
• $23.00/hour for Rental Officer 
• $32.00/hour for Custodial staff required for set up and 
break down. 
• $53.00/booking Alcohol permit fee if serving alcohol 
during the event
• $250.00 Refundable Security Deposit for rentals serving 
alcohol (All or part of this security deposit will be 
withheld if event goes past end time on contract or if there 
are damages to the property.)
Category
Patron Classification
Additional Charges - applicable to patrons in Classifications B, 
C and Non-residents
A: City of San Mateo internal or 
sponsored meetings, activities or events 
as aproved by the Parks and Recreation 
Director or approved delegate.
Page 8.9
139 of 302

--- page 140 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
Standing
Theatre
Facility
Room
Category
Beresford
Assembly
1
614
439
Beresford
Social
3
359
256
Beresford
Activity
3
540
385
Beresford
Conference
4
Beresford
Studio
4
333
238
Beresford
Club
4
342
244
Central
Activity A/B
2
265
189
Central
Activity A
4
Central
Stage
4
Central
Lounge
4
307
219
Central
Activity B
4
254
181
King
Assembly
1
211
150
King
Social A/B
2
235
168
King
Studio
4
King
Social A
4
King
Conference
4
King
Social B
4
King
Gym
4
250
178
Joinville Pool
Multipurpose
4
125
89
Shoreview
Assembly
3
125
89
Shoreview
Social
4
84
60
Sr. Center
Assem/MP
1
Sr. Center
Activity
3
Sr. Center
Assem/MP A
4
Sr. Center
Conference
4
162
116
Sr. Center
Game Room
4
170
122
Sr. Center
Library Room
4
101
72
158
113
125
89
158
113
182
130
150
107
C. FACILITY CATEGORY TABLES
Beresford
Assembly
205
King
Assembly
120
Central
Assembly
Facility
Room
Banquet
Category 1
Activity
102
111
114
88
Activity A/B
Sr. Center
Assembly
180
Central
King
Social A/B
Beresford
Category 2
Category 3
King
Social B
Beresford
Social
Studio
83
Category 4
85
Sr. Center
Activity
70
Beresford
Beresford
Conference
Joinville Pool
Multipurpose
Shoreview
Assembly
75
42
Beresford
Studio B
42
Beresford
Club
28
Beresford
Studio A
26
Central
Lounge
Central
Stage
53
Shoreview
Social
61
Sr. Center
Assem/MP A 
50
34
King
Studio
53
King
Social A
42
King
Activity A
54
Central
Activity B
57
Note - Capacities are fire safety maximums. Rental capacities may vary and are established by each center consistent with use needs.
Conference
Central
Page 8.10
140 of 302

--- page 141 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
Non-Resident, Businesses, and schools (other than San Mateo Union High School District and San Mateo-Foster City School 
District per Section IV).
Classification B:
Non-profit and/or not-for-profit groups serving majority of City of San Mateo residents and whose membership is open to the 
general public. Non-Profit as defined as 501c through the IRS. Not-For-Profit as approved by the Parks and Recreation Director 
or approved delegate
Classification C:
FACILITY PERMIT CLASSIFICATION DEFINITIONS
Classification A:
City of San Mateo internal or sponsored meetings, activities or events as approved by the Parks and Recreation Director or 
approved delegate.
Resident of the City of San Mateo (Simplified Definition)
Non-Resident:
Page 8.11
141 of 302

--- page 142 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
Priority 5:
A. Adult resident sports groups or teams.
B. Resident private rentals.
Youth or Adult non-resident groups, teams, or individuals. Nonresident is defined as having an organization address outside of the 
San Mateo City limits and/or having less than 25% residency.
Programs conducted by Elementary Schools (K-8) within the City of San Mateo. Also programs conducted by organizations that 
limit their recruitment and sign-ups to individuals living within the San Mateo City limits and are recreational in nature having a 
"everyone plays; no child is turned away" philosophy. Residency requirement for Priority 2 consideration is a minimum of 90%
Athletics Field Priorities
Priority 1:
Programs and activities conducted or sponsored by the City of San Mateo. This includes the San Mateo Police Activities League 
program(s).
Priority 6:
Priority 3:
Programs conducted by private high schools within the City of San Mateo. Also, programs conducted by organizations in which 
participants must "tryout" or be selected based on skill level. Organizations may be "select" in that participants may be recruited 
from cities other than San Mateo. Residency requirement for Priority 3 consideration is a minimum of 50%. Residency verification 
may be required.
Priority 4:
Programs conducted by organizations in which participants must "tryout" or be selected based on skill level. Organizations may be 
"select" in that participants may be recruited from cities other than San Mateo. Residency requirement for Priority 4 consideration is 
a minimum of 25% residency. Residency verification may be required.
Priority 2:
Page 8.12
142 of 302

--- page 143 ---
UNIT
I.
PERMITS
A. MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT:
1. Establishment Certificate for Non-Practitioner Owners
Base Fee for Processing
$638.00
+ Actual Time Spent x Rate Per 
Hour as Appropriate
2. Establishment Certificate for Owner/Practitioners
Verification/Processing/Safety Inspection
Base Fee for Processing
$317.00
+ Actual Time Spent x Rate Per 
Hour as Appropriate
B. MASSAGE PRACTITIONER OFF- PREMISE
Verification/Processing
Each
$59.00
C. TANNING SALON
1. Tanning Facility Application Fee
Each
$541.00
2. Tanning Facility Biyearly Renewal Fee
Each Facility
$88.00
D.  TAXI CAB DRIVER Investigation/Processing
New/Renewal
$121.00 1
E. TAXI CAB INSPECTION
$146.00 2
F. ENTERTAINMENT PERMIT
Each
$347.00
G. TOW SERVICE
1. Tow Truck Application Fee
$316.00 1
2. Tow Truck Rotation List
$48.00
3. Tow Truck Licensing Fee
$3.00
H.
Fee/Per Hour
$173.00
II.
COPIES OF REPORTS
A. ACCIDENT REPORTS
Per Page
$0.15
B. CAD REPORTS
Per Page
$0.15
C. ARREST REPORTS
Per Page
$0.15
D. CLEARANCE LETTER
Each
$10.00
E. PUBLIC RECORDS REQUEST
Per Page
$0.15
III.
VIDEO/AUDIO TAPE RECORDS AND PHOTOS
A. VIDEO RECORDINGS
1.
Each
$12.00
B. PHOTOS
Each
$5.00
IV.
Each
$15.00
V.
A.
Per 1/4 Hour
$6.00
B.
Per Page
$0.10
C.
Each
Actual Cost
DVD / CD / Flash drive Recording
FILING OF REPORT OF REPOSSESSION 
(State Law GC 41612)
SUBPOENA DUCES TECUM                                                                              
(State Law CEC 1563)
CLERICAL COSTS (Charged on a 1/4 hr basis w/the hrly rate set at $24.00)
STANDARD REPRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS OF A SIZE OF 8 1/2 X 
14 INCHES OR LESS
REPRODUCTION OF OVERSIZE DOCUMENTS, DOCUMENTS 
REQUIRING SPECIAL PROCESSING, POSTAGE, RETRIEVAL/RETURN 
OF RECORDS HELD OFF-SITE
POLICE
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
FEE
Background Investigation/Verification/ Processing/Safety Inspection
PROJECT PLAN CHECKING FEE ON BUILDING PERMITS
Page 9.1
143 of 302

--- page 144 ---
POLICE
UNIT
VI.
FALSE ALARMS
First alarm starting each fiscal year (7/1/21)
One
Free
2nd & over
Each
$117.00
VII.
Each
As determined by the County
VIII. OFFICER RESPONSE
A.
Per Hour
$97.00
B.
Per Hour
$97.00
Per Officer
(one (1) hour min.)
C.
See “SPECIAL COMMUNITY EVENTS PERMIT” Section
D.
Each
$275.00
(per CA Government Code 
68097.2)
IX.
VEHICLE RELEASES
A. IMPOUNDED/STORED VEHICLE
Each
$21.00
X.
One
$120.00
Additional
$78.00
XI.
OUTSIDE DETAIL RATES 3, 4
Police Officer
Per Hour
$118.67
Police Sergeant
Per Hour
$142.37
Community Service Officer
Per Hour
$71.83
Police Reserve Officer
Per Hour
$93.09
Police Vehicle Abatement Officer
Per Hour
$57.05
Contracted Parking Enforcement Officer
Per Hour
$46.31
Police Officer
Per Hour
$148.34
Police Sergeant
Per Hour
$177.97
Community Service Officer
Per Hour
$89.79
Police Reserve Officer
Per Hour
$116.36
Police Vehicle Abatement Officer
Per Hour
$71.31
Contracted Parking Enforcement Officer
Per Hour
$57.89
Police Department Footnotes:
1 Plus prevailing State, Federal and County Fees for fingerprinting of applicants that are at the following costs:
DOJ Prevailing Fee
$32.00
FBI Prevailing Fee
$17.00
County Prevailing Fee
$5.00
$54.00
2
3
4
In the event the Police Department must augment staffing of an outside detail with personnel from an allied agency, the outside detail rate 
charged shall be commensurate to the actual rate which is charged by that agency, which may be higher/lower than the rate listed.
The rates charged for Outside Detail may be updated during the Fiscal Year to reflect negotiated salary increases and ensure full cost recovery.
Category B: Fund raising events organized, conducted and sponsored by 
registered non- profit organizations.
Category C: Events sponsored by for-profit business or non-tax-exempt 
i
i
The fee will include up to two re-inspections at no additional cost.  Additional inspections will be billed at 50% of the original cost.
OUTSIDE DETAIL
CIVIL SUBPOENA WITNESS FEE DEPOSIT (Governed by State Law). 
Actual costs will be charged
(excluding vehicles towed exclusively under the authority of VC 22651(c), 
(g), (k), (o), (i.)(l), or VC 226.55.5).
Category A: City organized, conducted, sponsored, or co-sponsored events, or 
non- profit sponsored events that benefit city programs.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
FEE
BOOKING FEE (UPON CONVICTION) STATE LAW SECTION 29550.1.
EMERGENCY RESPONSE TO DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE 
(DUI) upon conviction (Gov't Code Section 53150-58)
DISTURBANCE SERVICE FEE
(loud parties, barking dogs, etc.)
STORAGE OF FIREARM 
(Includes safekeeping)
Page 9.2
144 of 302

--- page 145 ---
POLICE
$79.00/ $10.00 w/POC
$47.00/ $10.00 w/POC
$47.00/ $10.00 w/POC
$43.00
$47.00
$43.00
$47.00
$47.00
$47.00
$47.00
$43.00
$47.00
$43.00
$47.00
$47.00
$347.00
$43.00
$347.00
$47.00
$47.00
$58.00
$47.00
$347.00
$149.00
$149.00
$47.00
$47.00
$47.00
$47.00
$47.00
$43.00
$43.00
$43.00
$43.00
$43.00
$43.00
$43.00
$47.00
$43.00
$43.00
$43.00
$43.00
$43.00
Overtime in meter zone/feeding meter
$43.00
$43.00
$43.00
$43.00
$47.00
11.48.070
Parking in bus zone (curb marked)
17.08.20
Boat or other object parked on public right-of-way
11.44.150
Meter violation
11.44.160
11.44.165
Repeat violations for overtime parking (2nd violation-same day, same place)
11.48.030
Parking in alley
11.40.110
Parked on private property w/o consent
11.44.090
Parked in front of a hooded meter
11.44.130
Parking over lines
11.40.060
Curb wheels/set brake on hill
11.40.070
Parking so as to obstruct traffic
11.40.100
Violation of emergency signs posted
11.40.040(a)
Restricted parking on City street (posted) (No residential parking permit)
11.40.040(b)
Restricted parking on City lot (posted) i.e., City Hall, Rec Centers, Library, etc.
11.40.055
Street sweeping
11.36.010(1)
Parallel parking in angle slot
11.36.020
Angle parking (right front tire not within 18” of curb)
11.40.040(a)
Restricted parking on City street (posted)
11.32.070
Red, yellow, etc., curb markings
11.32.100
Commercial vehicle on residential street, 10,000 lbs. GVW
11.32.105
Oversized vehicle/trailer parked on residential street
22523(b)
Abandon vehicle-public/private property
11.32.030
Truck parked on City street (may be used for limos, small shuttle buses, and small school buses)
11.32.040
Parked on parkway (Planting strip)
22521
Parking within 7 ½ feet of train tracks
22522
Blocking disabled ramp
22523(a)
Abandoned vehicle- any highway
22514
Blocking fire hydrant
22515(a)
Parked with engine running and/or parking brake not set
22516
Person locked in vehicle
22500(l)
Blocking wheelchair access to sidewalk
22502(a)
Not within 18” of the curb
22507.8
Handicapped parking
22500(h)
Double parking
22500(i)
Parking within bus zone
22500(k)
Parking upon any bridge
22500(e)
Blocking any driveway
22500(f)
Parking on a sidewalk
22500(g)
Obstructing traffic by parking near excavation
22500(b)
Parking within a crosswalk
22500(c)
Parking within a safety zone
22500(d)
Parking within 15 ft. of fire station driveway
21113
Parking on public grounds-no permit
22500.1
Fire lane
22500(a)
Parking within an intersection
PARKING PENALTY SCHEDULE
Only one violation per citation
4000(a)
Expired registration (make sure you check the POC box)
5200
License plates failure to display (make sure you check the POC box)
5204
Tabs (make sure you check the POC box)
Page 9.3
145 of 302

--- page 146 ---
UNIT
FEE
I.
PARKING FEES
A. TEMPORARY NO PARKING METERS (1)
Up to 7 days
Per Day/Per Meter
$12.85
8 – 49 days
Per Wk./Per Meter
$77.10
50 – 98 days
Per Wk./Per Meter
$154.20
99+ days
Per Wk./Per Meter
$308.40
Per Installation
$79.16
B. TEMPORARY "NO PARKING" SIGNS
Each
$4.00
C. DOWNTOWN PARKING FEE PARKING PASSES
2nd and El Camino Real 
Monthly
$66.82
Central Parking
Monthly
$102.80
Tennis Court Garage 
Monthly
$66.82
Main Street Garage 
Monthly
$102.80
Transit Center
Monthly
$66.82
Kiku Downtown Public Garage
Monthly
$66.82
Railroad Avenue between 5th to 9th
Monthly
$41.12
Low-Income Parking Permit
Monthly
$41.12
D. ON-STREET AND OFF-STREET RATES (per SMMC 11.40.010)
($0.50 minimum for credit cards at pay stations)
Time Limit:
Premium On-Street Space 
3 Hours/per Hour
$1.54
Premium Off-Street Facilities 
3 Hours/Per Hour
$1.29
Premium Off-Street Facilities
No Limit
$1.29
(Central Garage – Lots 4, 5, 6), Main Street Garage
Value On-Street Spaces
3 Hours/Per Hour
$1.03
Value Off-Street Facilities 
3 Hours/Per Hour
$0.77
Value Off-Street Facilities
No Limit
$0.77
No Limit
$0.26
E. VALET PARKING PERMIT FEE 
Permit Fee 
Per Permit
$491.38
Implementation/Replacement Costs:
Curb Marking
Each Location
$87.38
Signs
Per Sign
$144.95
Meter Pole/Bracket
Per Pole/Bracket
$41.12
F.
Annually Per Space Per Day
$1.03
G. PUBLIC EV CHARGING STATION
Per kW/h
$0.27
NOTES:
I.
PARKING FEES
D.
PUBLIC WORKS
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
For each time the City installs and removes a meter bag.
(Main Street Garage – Lot 1, Second and ECR Garage – Lot 2, Tennis Court Garage – Lot 3, 5th and B 
Lot – Lot 7, 4th and Railroad Lot – Lot 8, Transit Center – Lot 9, 5th to 9th Ave on S. Railroad Ave), 
Kinko’s Lot – Lot 10, and Worker’s Resource Lot – Lot 11
USE OF PUBLIC PARKING SPACES FOR VALET STATIONS
Beginning 7/1/2023, the credit card Merchant Service Provider will begin charging a credit card transaction fee. This fee applies to all transactions completed with a 
credit card.
Page 10.1
146 of 302

--- page 147 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
II.
ENCROACHMENT PERMITS (see Encroachment Permit Notes (II))
A. FLAT FEE ENCROACHMENT PERMITS
1. Minor Encroachment (Driveway/Sidewalk/Curb/Gutter Replacement)
Each
$695.00
This fee is waived if the applicant was notified by the City to repair sidewalk tripping hazards.
2.
Each
$833.00
3. Temporary Encroachment (Dumpsters, scaffolding, potholing, excavation, etc.)
Each
$551.00
4. Temporary Rental Storage Container (Pods, etc.)
Each
$229.00
5. Traffic Control Only
Each
$369.00
6. Outdoor Dinning Permit
a. Outdoor Furnishings (Sidewalks and Ped Mall)
i.
Permit Application Fee
Each
$419.64
ii. Annual Renewal Fee
Each
$419.64
b. Parklets (Citywide and Ped Mall)
i.
Permit Application Fee
Each
$544.84
ii. Annual Renewal Fee
Per Parking Stall Occupied
$272.42
7. Dock Permit
a. Construction, Maintenance, or Demo
Each
$4,608.00
b. Annual Fee
Per Dock
$67.00
8. Banner Permit
a. Central Garage Banner
Per Request
$953.00
b. Street Light Bannger
Per 5 Poles
$370.00
9. Utility Permit
a. Standard Utility Base Fee
Each
$1,932.00
b. Additional Fee for Excavation (up to 250-sq.ft.)
Each
$827.00
B. MAJOR ENCROACHMENT PERMITS
1. Plan Review Fees
$0 - $50K ROW Construction Costs
Base
$865.00
$50K - $100K ROW Construction Costs
Base
$865.00
Each additional dollar above $50K
% of costs above $50K
12.01%
$100K - $500K ROW Construction Costs
Base
$6,872.00
Each additional dollar above $100K
% of costs above $100K
3.18%
$500K - $1M ROW Construction Costs
Base
$19,730.00
Each additional dollar above $500K
% of costs above $500K
2.20%
$1M+  ROW Construction Costs
Base
$30,742.00
Each additional dollar above $1M
% of costs above $1M
1.10%
Additional Review Cycles (4th and beyond) or Revisions
Per Occurance
$1,329.00
2. Permit and Inspection Fees
$0 - $50K ROW Construction Costs
Base
$2,661.00
$50K - $100K ROW Construction Costs
Base
$2,661.00
Each additional dollar above $50K
% of costs above $50K
9.14%
$100K - $500K ROW Construction Costs
Base
$7,232.00
Each additional dollar above $100K
% of costs above $100K
4.06%
$500K - $1M ROW Construction Costs
Base
$23,467.00
Each additional dollar above $500K
% of costs above $500K
1.97%
$1M+  ROW Construction Costs
Base
$33,321.00
Each additional dollar above $1M
% of costs above $1M
0.99%
Additional Inspections over Allotment
Per Inspection
$353.00
C. PERMIT MODIFCATION
1. Rider / Scope Change
Each
$229.00
2. Time Extension
Each
$45.52
D. SECURITY BOND OR DEPOSIT
1. Minor Encroachment Permits
Deposit
$2,500.00
2. Sewer Lateral Permits
Deposit
$2,000.00
3. Temporary Permits
Deposit
$1,000.00
4. Dock Permits
Deposit
$1,000.00
5. Street Light Banner Permits
Deposit
$500.00
6. Major Encroachment Permits
Minimum Deposit
$10,000.00
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Sewer Lateral
Utility permit scopes that exceed 250 square feet or $50,000 in valuation shall instead apply for a Major 
Encroachment permit.
Page 10.2
147 of 302

--- page 148 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
III. GRADING PERMITS
A.  SITE DEVELOPMENTS PERMIT FEE
 
0 - 1,000 cubic yards of earthwork activity
Base
$2,725.00
Per 25 cubic yards above 0
Per 25 cubic yards
$50.98
1,000 - 10,000 cubic yards of earthwork activity
Base
$4,764.00
Per 25 cubic yards above 1,000
Per 25 cubic yards
$10.82
10,000 cubic yards or greater of earthwork activity
Base
$8,660.00
Per 25 cubic yards above 10,000
Per 25 cubic yards
$5.41
B. STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PERMIT (STOPPP)
1. STOPPP Permit Fee
a. STOPPP Type I Projects
Each
No Fee
b. STOPPP Type II Projects
Each
$522.00
c. STOPPP Type III Projects
Each
$1,440.00
d. STOPPP Type IV Projects
Each
$2,060.00
2. Erosion Control Compliance Deposit
For STOPPP Type II Projects greater than 50CY or Type III & IV Projects any size.
a. Minimum Deposit
Minimum Deposit
$397.00
b. Additional Deposit
Per 100 cubic yards
$58.00
C. GRADING SECURITY BOND OR DEPOSIT
1. Minimum Deposit
Minimum Deposit
$10,000.00
2. Additional Deposit above 250 cubic yards
Per cubic yard
$40.00
IV.
MAPPING AND AGREEMENTS
A. PARCEL MAPS
Per Map
$8,014.00
B. FINAL MAPS & CONDO CONVERSIONS
Per Map
$10,128.00
C. LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT (CERTIFICATE)
Each
$4,041.00
D. LOT CONFORMANCE (CERTIFICATE)
Each
$3,329.00
E. MAP CORRECTION (CERTIFICATE)
Each
$3,458.00
F. RIGHT-OF-WAY/PUBLIC EASEMENT (NOT PART OF A MAP)
Each
$6,316.00
G. ADDITIONAL MAPPING REVIEWS (4TH REVIEW AND BEYOND)
Each
$1,189.00
H. ENGINEERING AGREEMENTS (SIA, E&M, STORMWATER, ETC)
Each
$4,065.00
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 10.3
148 of 302

--- page 149 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
V.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE FEES
A. CLASS A WASTE DISCHARGE PERMIT ANNUAL FEE
Each
$1,167.00
B. CLASS B WASTE DISCHARGE PERMIT ANNUAL FEE
Each
$778.00
C. STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERMIT ANNUAL FEE
Each
$707.00
D. POLLUTION PREVENTION INSPECTION FEE
Per Hour
$244.00
E. INSPECTION/INVESTIGATION FEE
Per Hour
$253.00
Per Hour OT
$294.00
F. SAMPLING FEE
Per Hour
$260.00
Per Hour OT
$305.00
G. ANALYTICAL SERVICES FEE
Each
$246.00
H. HYDRAULIC LOADING CHARGE
Per 100 Cu. Ft.
Basic Sewer Service 
Charge rate
I.
DEFICIENCY RESULTING IN “SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE”
Each
$485.00
J.
FAILURE TO CONDUCT SELF-MONITORING
Per Hour
$246.00
K.
Each
$449.00
L. ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP/ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCE
1.
Labor
Per Hour
$257.00
Per Hour OT
$300.00
2.
Material And Equipment
Each
Cost
3.
Contract Services
Each
Cost
M. APPEAL - of decision to issue permit, levy fees, or finding of noncompliance
Each Appeal
$565.00
N.
Each Case
$5,523.00
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH OFFICIAL NOTICE TO CORRECT VIOLATION
VIOLATIONS REQUIRING INSPECTION WARRANT, OR COMMENCEMENT OF CIVIL 
LITIGATION PROCEEDINGS
Page 10.4
149 of 302

--- page 150 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
NOTES:
V.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE FEES
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.
H.
I.
J.
K.
L.
M.
N.
Violations Requiring Inspection Warrant or Commencement of Civil Litigation Proceedings. In the event that the user refuses the Director entry to the premises, inspection 
may be made only upon the issuance of a search warrant by a duly authorized magistrate. In the event that the user refuses entry after the request has been made, the 
Director is hereby empowered to seek assistance from the court in obtaining such entry; Any person who has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this Chapter 
or any order or permit issued hereunder, shall be subject to the imposition of civil penalties pursuant to Chapter 1.11 of this Code. (7.38.350, 7.39.140, 7.38.410, 7.39.200, 
7.38.480, 7.39.290)
Appeal of Decision to Issue Permit, Levy fees, or Finding of Noncompliance. Any person affected by any decision, action or determination, including administrative 
remedies, made in interpreting or implementing the provisions of this Chapter may appeal therefrom to the City of San Mateo Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission. 
(7.39.200). Fee is refunded if appellant prevails.
Environmental Cleanup/Abatement of Public Nuisance. City may impose a charge upon the user to reimburse the City or District for the cost of cleaning and/or repair of 
City facilities, including mitigation of waste discharge to the storm drainage system; any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this 
Chapter is a threat to the public health, safety and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance., and may be summarily abated and/or restored by the City. The cost of 
such abatement and restoration shall be borne by the owner of the property. (7.38.180, 7.38.470, 7.39.280).
Class B Discharge Permit. A Class B permit shall be issued, at the discretion of the Director, to any user who is not a significant industrial user, yet requires periodic 
inspection and/or monitoring to verify compliance with this Chapter. A Class B permit may be required for discharge of industrial waste from stationary sources, trucked 
wastes, contaminated groundwater, and other industrial wastes approved by the Director for discharge to the sanitary sewer. (7.38.260). Cost based on 1.5 hours admin 
and inspection time per year at standard labor rate.
Class A Discharge Permit. A Class A permit shall be issued to all significant industrial users (SIU). Class A permit holders are regulated in accordance with the 
requirements specified in the pretreatment regulations, 40 CFR Part 403 and 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471, as amended, and this Chapter. (7.38.260) 
Cost based on 4 hours admin and inspection time per year at standard labor rate.
Inspection/Investigation Fee. Applies to inspection and investigation activities not covered in D. or K. Cost based on standard labor rate.
Sampling Fee. The Director shall have the right to establish on any property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling or metering operations. During all 
inspections as provided herein, the official may take any samples deemed necessary to aid in the pursuit of the inquiry or in the recording of activities on the  site. 
(7.38.350, 7.39.140). Cost based standard labor rate.
Failure to Comply with Official Notice to Correct Violation. When an authorized enforcement official finds that a user has violated or is violating this Chapter, or a permit 
or order issued hereunder, the official may serve upon said user a Notice of Violation which enumerates the violations found, and orders compliance by a date certain. 
(7.38.460, 7.39.270); any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter is a threat to the public health, safety and welfare, and 
is declared and deemed a nuisance. (7.38.470, 7.39.280)
Failure to Conduct Self-monitoring. The Director may require that the user conduct a sampling and analysis program of the user’s waste or stormwater discharge of a 
frequency and type required by the Director to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this Chapter. (7.38.360, 7.39.160).
Deficiency Resulting in “Significant Noncompliance”. At least annually, the Director shall provide public notice in the largest local daily newspaper a list of those 
significant industrial users that, during the previous twelve (12) months, were found in significant noncompliance, as defined in the pretreatment regulations and this 
Chapter. (7.38.420). Cost based on administrative time and cost of publication for 3 days in San Mateo County Times.
The following fees are intended to help recover the cost of implementation and enforcement of SMMC Chapter 7.38
Hydraulic Loading Charge. The Director may impose upon the user a hydraulic loading charge for discharge of groundwater or other waters in cases where conventional 
sewer service charges applied by the City or District do not account for said flows or uses. User discharges which exceed 10,000 gallons per batch discharge or users 
undertaking long term discharges of groundwater to the sanitary sewer shall be metered and levied a hydraulic loading charge based upon the basic sewer service charge 
rate. (7.38.260)
Stormwater Management Permit. A property that is required to install, operate, and maintain stormwater treatment facilities, or maintain parking lots, storm drain inlets, or 
other facilities for stormwater pollution prevention as specified in project conditions, shall obtain a Stormwater Management (SWM) permit from the Director of Public 
Works. (7.39.235). Cost based on 2 hours admin and inspection time per year at standard labor rate.
Analytical Services Fee. Cost based in service provider cost of service.
Pollution Prevention Inspection Fee. The Director is authorized to conduct all inspection, surveillance, and monitoring procedures necessary to assure compliance with this 
Chapter. The Director may enter without unreasonable delay, during facility hours of operation, any premises of any user in which a potential pollutant discharge source 
exists or in which facility discharge and materials and waste records are kept. Records shall be made available to the Director for inspection and copying. Reasonable times 
for inspection and sampling may include times that are unannounced. (7.38.350, 7.39.140) Cost based on 0.5- hour admin and inspection time per year at standard labor 
rate.
Page 10.5
150 of 302

--- page 151 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
VI. DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES (subject to annual review)
A. WASTEWATER CAPACITY CHARGE
a.
Per Dwelling Unit
$11,866.37
b.
Per Dwelling Unit
$5,932.59
Per Dwelling Unit
$9,888.45
Per Dwelling Unit
$11,866.37
c.
Per Room/Apartment
$5,932.59
d.
Per Bedroom
$5,932.59
e.
Per Square Foot
$5.93
a.
Per Meter
$11,866.37
Per Meter
$12,710.84
Per Meter
$13,999.45
b.
Per Meter
$19,776.89
Per Meter
$21,183.94
Per Meter
$23,332.42
c.
Per Meter
$39,553.78
Per Meter
$42,369.07
Per Meter
$46,664.84
d.
Per Meter
$63,285.34
Per Meter
$67,789.56
Per Meter
$74,663.74
e.
Per Meter
$118,660.16
Per Meter
$127,106.02
Per Meter
$139,993.33
f.
Per Meter
$197,766.53
Per Meter
$211,842.97
Per Meter
$233,323.01
g.
Per Meter
$395,533.07
Per Meter
$423,687.12
Per Meter
$466,646.02
h.
Per Meter
$632,852.20
Per Meter
$677,899.16
Per Meter
$746,633.86
a.
Per Gallon Per Day
$91.85
b.
Per Pound Per Day
$2,218.97
c.
Per Pound Per Day
$2,000.81
Multi-family
ii. 2 bedroom
i. Studio & 1 bedroom
2. Commercial/Institutional
The capacity charge for commercial/institutional uses is based on water meter size and wastewater class. *see footnote 
below for class explanation*
Accessory Dwelling Unit
Meter size of 8 inches
i. Class B
iii. Class D
Flow
Board or lodging houses
Hotels or motels
iii. 3+ bedroom
Single-family
1. Residential
Class A represents all residential uses, a biological oxygen demand of 200mg/L, and a suspended solids measurement 
of 200mg/L
i. Class B
ii. Class C
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
i. Class B
ii. Class C
iii. Class D
Meter size of up to 3/4 inch
Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD)
Suspended Solids (SS)
*Wastewater Class Thresholds
●Class B represents standard strength, a biological oxygen demand of 200 mg/L, and a suspended solids measurement of 200 mg/L 
●Class C represents moderate strength, a biological oxygen demand of 400 mg/L, and a suspended solids measurement of 400 mg/L 
●Class D represents high strength, a biological oxygen demand of 800 mg/L, and a suspended solids measurement of 600 mg/L 
ii. Class C
iii. Class D
3. Industrial
The capacity charge for industrial uses is based on estimated wastewater flow and strength.
i. Class B
ii. Class C
iii. Class D
Meter size of 6 inches
Meter size of 1 inch and 1/2 inch
i. Class B
i. Class B
ii. Class C
iii. Class D
iii. Class D
ii. Class C
Meter size of 3 inches
i. Class B
ii. Class C
iii. Class D
Meter size of 4 inches
Meter size of 1 inch
i. Class B
ii. Class C
iii. Class D
Meter size of 2 inches
Page 10.6
151 of 302

--- page 152 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
VI. DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES (subject to annual review) (continued)
B. TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE 
1.
Residential
a. Single-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$7,406.95
b. Multi-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$3,740.77
2.
Commercial and Industrial
a. Retail
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$29,911.98
b. Office
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$9,023.33
c. Industrial
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$4,949.80
d. Hotel
Per Room
$4,710.60
e. Institution
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$3,848.53
C.
Per Space
$62,227.81
VII. NEWSRACK ORDINANCE VIOLATION
A. ABATEMENT FEE
failure to abate violation for Chapter 17.12 of the S.M.M.C.
Per Violation
$75.78
B. APPEAL OF ABATEMENT ORDER FEE 
(Fee refunded if appellant prevails).
Per Violation
$147.05
VIII. MISCELLANEOUS FEES
A. TRANSPORTATION PERMIT (ON CITY STREETS)
1.
Oversized Load - Annual (subject to CVC 35795)
Per Hour
$90.00
2.
Oversized Load - Singular Trip (subject to CVC 35795)
Per Hour
$16.00
B. CURB PAINTING
1.
Review
a. Red Tipping
Per Request
$674.00
b. Blue Curb (Disabled)
Per Request
$488.00
c. Yellow Curb (Loading Zone)
Per Request
$384.00
d. White Curb (Passenger Loading)
Per Request
$384.00
e. Green Curb (Limited-Time)
Per Request
$384.00
f. Non-Critical Red Zones
Per Request
$186.00
2.
Installation
a. Red Tipping
Per Request
$227.00
b. Blue Curb (Disabled)
Per Request
$657.00
c. Yellow Curb (Loading Zone)
 Per Request 
$509.00
d. White Curb (Passenger Loading)
Per Request
$412.00
e. Green Curb (Limited-Time)
Per Request
$671.00
f. Non-Critical Red Zones
Per Request
$357.00
C. WIRELESS PERMITS
1.
Wireless Permit Application Fee (Drawdown Deposit)
Min Deposit Per Location 
$4,500.00
2.
Master License Agreement or Amendment Fee
 Min Deposit 
$2,500.00
3.
Annual License Fee for attachment to City-owned Pole (subject to FCC 18-133)
Per Location Per Year
$270.00
D. SHARED MOBILITY PERMIT APPLICATION FEE (not subject annual increases)
Each
$5,300.00
E. TIE-BACKS IN THE PUBLIC ROW FEE
Each
$2,274.00
F.
1.
Review or coordination
Per Hour
$210.00
2.
Inspection
Per Hour
$183.00
STAFF HOURLY RATES FOR SERVICES NOT LISTED
CENTRAL PARKING IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT PER SPACE IN-LIEU FEE
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 10.7
152 of 302

--- page 153 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
IX.
SPECIAL COMMUNITY EVENTS PERMITS
A. NO-FEE EVENTS
Each
No Fee
B. NON-PROFIT, LOW-IMPACT EVENT
Each
$100.00
C. NON-PROFIT, HIGH-IMPACT EVENT
Each
$230.00
D. FOR-PROFIT, LOW-IMPACT EVENT
Each
$500.00
E. FOR-PROFIT, HIGH-IMPACT EVENT
Each
$1,000.00
F. SERVICE FEES (IF REQUIRED TO SUPPORT THE EVENT)
1.
Overtime rates for personnel not regularly on duty who are required to work the event.
Per Hour
Staff Overtime Rates
2.
Fair market value charges for utilization of City equipment and/or vehicles for the event.
Per Hour
Market Rates
3.
Regular rates for personnel who may be required to prepare specialized logistic plans for the event.
Per Hour
Staff Rates
4.
Actual costs for consumable supplies, e.g. parking meter signs, garbage bags, etc., used for the event.
Actual Costs
Actual Costs
5.
Actual cost for specialized services contracted by the City that are required for the event.
Actual Costs
Actual Costs
UNIT
FEE
X. COMMERCIAL FILMING PERMITS
A. USE FEES
1.
Public Streets and Right-of Ways
a. Videos/Travel/Documentary/Still Photography/Industrial Commercials
Per Day
$217.94
b. Television Series/Movies/Pilot and Feature Films
Per Day
$326.90
c. All other uses
Per Day
$108.97
2. Civic Facilities, Parks, and Special Use Areas (For all uses)
Per Hour
$54.48
B. SUPPORT SERVICES FEES
C. DEPOSIT
Deposit
$1,000.00
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
For events sponsored by a non-profit organization that is not classified as a high-impact event.
Fees for use of overtime personnel shall be calculated at the top step prevailing overtime rate for the 
classification(s) utilized plus a 25% administrative overhead fee.
All businesses shall submit a refundable deposit at the time fees are due and payable to cover any 
unanticipated support services fees, property damage repair, etc.
For events open to the general public, sponsored by a non-profit organization, not for fundraising purposes, 
where no registration or admission fee is charged, no donations or contributions are solicited, or where no 
money exchanges hands.
For events sponsored by a non-profit organization that is classified as high-impact event. A high-impact 
event meets two or more of the following criteria: 1) being held for the first time; 2) expected to draw more 
than 500 participants; 3) held on a recurring basis; 4) requiring the support of 2 or more City departments; 
5) following a route with a different start and finish; 6) requiring a street closure; or 7) requiring interagency 
coordination.
For events sponsored by a for-profit organization that is not classified as a high-impact event.
For events sponsored by a for-profit organization that is classified as a high-impact event.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Filming fees shall apply to commercial businesses desiring to film on public streets, right of ways or within city 
owned facilities, including parks, civic facilities and buildings or special use areas, such as Poplar Creek Golf 
Course.  Prior to the granting of a permit, all businesses shall comply with all applicable policies and 
procedures, including, but not limited to, evidence of insurance, permits and licenses, and appropriate hold 
harmless language.
Any filming use that requires any of the following, shall be billed in accordance with the guidelines outlined 
within the Special Community Events Permit Fee section, Category C designation; i.e. for-profit businesses 
or non-tax exempt organizations:
Fees for use of City equipment, consumable supplies, preparation of specialized logistic plans, specialized 
contracted services and on-duty personnel will be billed at cost, plus a 25% administrative overhead fee.
Page 10.8
153 of 302

--- page 154 ---
Page 11.1 
Chapter 3.64 
FEES 
Sections: 
3.64.010 
Fees. 
3.64.020 
Penalties & Interest 
3.64.030 
Fees for Code Enforcement 
3.64.010 - FEES.  
Prior to submittal of the annual budget, the City Manager shall submit to the City Council the fees proposed 
for the next fiscal year. The prior year’s fees shall continue if the City Manager does not submit new 
proposed fees. If the proposed fees do not represent a percentage increase exceeding the percentage 
increase for the preceding twelve (12) month period as shown by the San Francisco Bay Area Consumer 
Price Index of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, United States Department of Labor, under the heading All 
Items, or any index substituted by the Department of Labor therefor, the proposed fees shall become 
effective on the following July 1, unless a different date is set forth in the submission, provided however that 
the Council may amend the fees before the effective date. If the proposed fees represent a percentage 
increase exceeding the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index, they must be approved by the 
Council before becoming effective. Notwithstanding the above, the Council may amend any fee at any time. 
(Ord. 1994-12 § 1, 1994; Ord. 1989-8 § 1, 1989; Ord. 1986-26 § 1, 1986). 
3.64.020 - PENALTIES AND INTEREST.  
Any fee imposed by this chapter shall be due and payable within thirty days after the bill is mailed by the 
City. The fees shall be delinquent if not paid within said thirty days. Any person who fails to remit any fee 
within the time required shall pay a penalty of ten percent of the amount due, per month to a maximum of 
three months, plus interest at the rate of 1-1/2 percent per month, or fraction thereof, computed from the 
delinquent date of the fee until and including the date of payment. (Ord. 1989-8 § 1, 1989). 
3.64.030 - FEES FOR CODE ENFORCEMENT. 
(a)
Nuisances. The Council is authorized to adopt fees for administrative costs incurred in the
enforcement of Title 7. No fee shall be charged if a property owner or agent abates the nuisance or
violation within thirty (30) days after first notification of the violation is mailed by the City.
(b)
Other Violations. The City shall be authorized to adopt fees for costs incurred in the enforcement of
Municipal Code violations which result in a requirement for a planning application or building permit, if such
application is made or permit applied for more than thirty days after notification of the violation is mailed.
(Ord. 1990-5 § 4, 1990; Ord. 1989-8 § 1, 1989).
154 of 302

--- page 155 ---
UNIT
FEE
I.
A. WASTEWATER CAPACITY CHARGE
1. Residential
Class A represents all residential uses, a biological oxygen demand of 200mg/L, and a suspended solids 
measurement of 200mg/L
a.   Single-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$11,100.63
b.   Multi-family
i. Studio & 1 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$5,549.76
ii. 2 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$9,250.34
iii. 3+ bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$11,100.63
c. Hotels or motels
Per Room/Apartment
$5,549.76
d. Board or lodging houses
Per Bedroom
$5,549.76
e. Accessory Dwelling Unit
Per Square Foot
$5.55
2. Commercial/Institutional
The capacity charge for commercial/institutional uses is based on water meter size and wastewater class. *see 
footnote below for class explanation*
a.   Meter size of up to 3/4 inch
     i.    Class B
Per Meter
$11,100.63
     ii.   Class C
Per Meter
$11,890.60
     iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$13,096.06
b.   Meter size of 1 inch
     i.    Class B
Per Meter
$18,500.68
     ii.   Class C
Per Meter
$19,816.93
     iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$21,826.77
c.   Meter size of 1 and 1/2 inch
     i.    Class B
Per Meter
$37,001.36
     ii.   Class C
Per Meter
$39,634.98
     iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$43,653.53
d.   Meter size of 2 inches
     i.    Class B
Per Meter
$59,201.51
     ii.   Class C
Per Meter
$63,415.07
     iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$69,845.66
e.   Meter size of 3 inches
     i.    Class B
Per Meter
$111,002.96
     ii.   Class C
Per Meter
$118,903.81
     iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$130,959.50
f.   Meter size of 4 inches
     i.    Class B
$185,004.57
     ii.   Class C
Per Meter
$198,172.65
     iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$218,266.57
g.   Meter size of 6 inches
     i.    Class B
Per Meter
$370,009.14
     ii.   Class C
Per Meter
$396,346.40
     iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$436,533.14
h.   Meter size of 8 inches
     i.    Class B
Per Meter
$592,013.95
     ii.   Class C
Per Meter
$634,154.02
     iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$698,453.24
3.   Industrial
      The capacity charge for industrial uses is based on estimated wastewater flow and strength.
a.   Flow
Per Gallon Per Day
$85.93
b.   Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD)
Per Pound Per Day
$2,075.78
c.   Suspended Solids (SS)
Per Pound Per Day
$1,871.70
IMPACT, IN-LIEU, AND LINKAGE FEES
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES (subject to annual review)
*Wastewater Class Thresholds
●Class B represents standard strength, a biological oxygen demand of 200 mg/L, and a suspended solids measurement of 200 mg/L 
●Class C represents moderate strength, a biological oxygen demand of 400 mg/L, and a suspended solids measurement of 400 mg/L 
●Class D represents high strength, a biological oxygen demand of 800 mg/L, and a suspended solids measurement of 600 mg/L 
Page 12.1
155 of 302

--- page 156 ---
UNIT
FEE
IMPACT, IN-LIEU, AND LINKAGE FEES
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
I.
B. TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE
1.   Residential
a.   Single-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$7,406.95
b.   Multi-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$3,740.77
2.   Commercial and Industrial
a.   Retail
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$29,911.98
b.   Office
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$9,023.33
c.   Industrial
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$4,949.80
d.   Hotel
Per Room
$4,710.60
e. Institution
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$3,848.53
C.
Per Space
$62,227.81
II.
Each
1.19% of valuation
III.
Per Tree
$805.00
A.
Single Family
$25,914.00
Multi-family 2-4 Units
$25,474.00
Multi-family 5+ Units
$18,510.00
IV. CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE
A. Residential
1. Single-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$4,677.29
2. Multi-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$3,373.46
B. Commercial
1. Retail
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.39
2. Office
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.67
3. Industrial
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.22
4. Hotel
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.14
V. COMMERCIAL LINKAGE FEE
(City Council  adopted September 16, 2016 - effective November 16, 2016)
New commercial construction in excess of 5,000 sq. ft.
Exempts public uses such as hospitals, nonprofit and government facilities, churches, schools and child 
care centers. Developers who enter written agreements to pay area standard wages to all construction 
workers on the project are entitled to a 25% reduction of the fee. Additionally, developers may provide 
construction of affordable housing units in lieu of the fee payment.
A. HOTELS
Per Sq. Ft.
$13.11
B. RETAIL, RESTAURANTS, AND SERVICES
Per Sq. Ft.
$6.55
C. OFFICE, RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT USES, AND MEDICAL OFFICES
Per Sq. Ft.
$32.76
VI.
A. In Lieu Fees for Fractional Units
1. Rental
0.1 Housing Unit
$33,452.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$66,903.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$100,355.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$133,807.00
2. Owner
0.1 Housing Unit
$30,701.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$61,401.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$92,102.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$122,802.00
B. In Lieu Fee for Projects Less than 11 Units
1. Rental
5 Unit Project
$167,259.00
6 Unit Project
$200,710.00
7 Unit Project
$234,162.00
8 Unit Project
$267,614.00
9 Unit Project
$301,065.00
10 Unit Project
$334,517.00
2. Owner
5 Unit Project
$153,503.00
6 Unit Project
$184,203.00
7 Unit Project
$214,904.00
8 Unit Project
$245,604.00
9 Unit Project
$276,305.00
10 Unit Project
$307,005.00
PARK AND LANDSCAPE RESOURCES
PARK IN-LIEU FEE / PARK IMPACT FEE FOR RESIDENTIAL PLANNING APPLICATION 
PROJECTS INVOLVING PARCEL MAPS, SUBDIVISION AND OTHER MULTI-FAMILY 
RESIDENTIAL PROJECTS.
Tree Replacement Cost (24" Box Tree)
BELOW MARKET RATE HOUSING FEE
A fee in lieu of constructing affordable housing units onsite per Below Market Rate program:
ART IN PUBLIC PLACE FEE
The fee is applicable to commercial and multi-family residential projects exceeding three (3) million dollars 
in total building valuation, excluding land acquisition and off-site improvement costs.
CENTRAL PARKING IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT PER SPACE IN-LIEU FEE
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES (subject to annual review) (continued)
Page 12.2
156 of 302

--- page 157 ---
Att ‐ 4
SUMMARYꢀOFꢀFISCALꢀIMPACTS
I
II
ANNUALꢀGENERALꢀFUND
ANNUALꢀOTHERꢀFUNDS
NewꢀFees
NewꢀFees
Various Public Works Fees
Various Parks & Recreation Fees
IncreaseꢀinꢀExcessꢀofꢀCPI
Police Department - Outside Detail Rates
Public Works - Various Fees
$
$
587,622.98
-
IncreaseꢀinꢀExcessꢀofꢀCPI
$
$
$
-
-
‐
GeneralꢀFundꢀTotal:
OtherꢀFundsꢀTotal:
$
‐
157 of 302

--- page 158 ---
SUMMARYꢀOFꢀNEWꢀFEES:ꢀꢀ2024‐25
ProposedꢀFee
orꢀDeposit
AnnualꢀRevenueꢀ
Item
CostꢀMethodology
Estimate
Parksꢀ&ꢀRecreation
Bocce Set
$
30.00 New fee for the use of bocce ball set.
Added new fee for food vendors permit due to community interest for this option for picnic rentals
Catering Service Fee
$
28.00
Adding facilities: King gym, Shoreview Social and Assembly, Senior Center Library and Game room
Facility Listings
Varies
New fees to reflect appropriate charges for individuals / business who wish to use soccer, baseball or softball fields for camps or clinics.
Camp or Clinic Fee - Soccer, Baseball, Softball
Facility Specialist
$55.00 - 64.00
Added fee to reflect cost of staffing as related to athletic facility rentals
Added fee to reflect cost of staffing as related to athletic facility rentals
$
-
$
23.00
32.00
Custodian
Tournament Refundable Deposit
$
$
288.00 Added fee for deposit related to tournaments (refundable)
Added picnic cancellation fee to specific cancellations made within 10 days do not receive a refund. Stipulates cancellation 10+ days or more
subject to $20 cancellation fee to cover admin costs.
20.00
20.00 Added picnic rescheduling fee to cover administrative costs
Picnic Cancellation Fee
Picnic Rescheduling Fee
$
$
PublicꢀWorks
Utility permits currently are lumped into Major EP. A separate fee streamlines administrative work.
Utility Permits - Standard Base Fee
Utility Permits - Excavation Fee
$
$
$
1,932.00
Additional staff time is involved with utility permits that excavate such as traffic control and restoration review.
827.00
Major Encro permits are generally large/complex projects. Review should be assessed and charged upfront. Tiered system.
Major Encroachments - Plan Review Fee
865.00
Major Encro permits are generally large/complex projects. Inspection should be assessed and charged prior to issuance. Tiered system.
Major Encroachments - Permit & Inspection Fee
Permit Modification - Rider / Scope Change
$
$
2,661.00
229.00 Permit Riders require more time than a simple time extension.
Flat deposit for minor encroachments to streamline administrative work. Replaces calculated deposits
Deposits - Minor Encroachment Permits
Deposits - Sewer Lateral Permits
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
2,500.00
Flat deposit for sewer lateral permits to streamline administrative work. Replaces calculated deposits
2,000.00
Flat deposit for temporary permits to for PW to remove in event permittee fails to. New deposit.
Deposits - Temporary Permits
1,000.00
Flat deposit for dock permits to streamline administrative work. Replaces calculated deposits
Deposits - Dock Permits
1,000.00
Defines flat deposit for street light banner permits to for PW to remove in event permittee fails to. New deposit.
Deposits - Street Light Banner Permits
Deposits - Major Encroachment Permits
Erosion Control Compliance Deposit - Additional
Grading Security - Minimum Deposit
500.00
$
587,622.98
Defines deposit for Major encroachment. Replaces calculated deposits
10,000.00
Providing a fomula for staff to use when calculating the deposit amount for Erosion Control Compliance.
58.00
Grading security defined for PW to utilize if permittee fails to stabilize or infill site.
10,000.00
Grading security defined for PW to utilize if permittee fails to stabilize or infill site.
40.00
3,458.00 Map correction service not previously listed in fee schedule.
Grading Security - Additional Deposit
Map Correction (Certificate)
$
$
Additional reviews beyond the typical 3 involve additional staff expenses.
Additional Mapping Reviews (4th and Beyond)
Engineering Agreements
$
$
$
1,189.00
Staff time spent on drafting and coordinating Engineering agreements for developments.
4,065.00
Transportation Permit processing service not previously defined nor charged.
Transportation Permit - Annual
90.00
Transportation Permit processing service not previously defined nor charged.
16.00
210.00 Staff hourly rates not previously defined.
183.00 Staff hourly rates not previously defined.
Transportation Permit - Singular
Staff Hourly Rate - Review
Staff Hourly Rate - Inspection
$
$
$
EstimatedꢀAnnualꢀRevenue: $ꢀꢀꢀꢀꢀꢀꢀꢀꢀꢀ587,622.98
158 of 302

--- page 159 ---
SUMMARYꢀOFꢀFEESꢀINꢀEXCESSꢀOFꢀCPI:ꢀꢀ2024‐25
ProposedꢀFee
AnnualꢀRevenueꢀ
Item
CurrentꢀFee
orꢀDeposit
CostꢀMethodology
Estimate
Police
Rates charged are updated per the salary schedule based on the top step and known
negotiated salary increases
Outside Detail Rates
Various
Various
ꢀ$
‐ꢀꢀꢀ
PublicꢀWorks
Wastewater Capacity Charge
Correction to the WCC to realign with ENR-CCI-SF since previously adjusted using CPI
for FY22-23 and FY23-24.
ꢀ$
184,730.29ꢀ
Various Fees
Staff time estimate and materials increases per user fee study.
EstimatedꢀRevenues: $ꢀꢀꢀꢀꢀꢀꢀꢀꢀꢀꢀꢀꢀꢀꢀꢀꢀ184,730.29
159 of 302

--- page 160 ---
SUMMARY OF ELIMINATED/REDUCED: 2024-25
Department
Fee
Reason for Elimination/Reduction
Eliminated Fees
Passport Processing Services
Mobile Homes In Lieu Fees
These fees have been removed from the fee schedule due to Passport
Service closure.
Library
We are deleting Mobile homes category as there is no data from 2022
American Community Survey census data.
Parks & Recreation
Reduced Fees
Public Works
Wireless Permit - Annual License Fee
Annual Wireless license fees are limited to $270 maximum per FCC Order 18-
133. Fee reduced to match max allowable.
160 of 302

--- page 161 ---
Proposed 
Comprehensive 
Fee Schedule
July 1, 2024 – June 30, 2025
Karley Toffey
Senior Management Analyst
Finance Department
1
161 of 302

--- page 162 ---
2024-25 Comprehensive Fee Schedule
• Annual public hearing for the fee schedule.
• Public Notice was given on April 3, 2024 and April 6, 2024.
• Annually fees are reviewed and most are increased by CPI. This year, 
CPI is 2.8%.
• Fees are cost recovery; not to exceed the cost of providing the 
service.
• Sewer service fees are not included in this revision process.
2
162 of 302

--- page 163 ---
Revision 
Highlights
Proposed New Fees:
• Parks & Recreation – Various Picnic & Facility Fees, 
Bocce Sets, Catering Service Fee, Tournament 
Deposits, etc.
• Public Works – Various fees, Utility Permits, Permit 
Deposits, Major encroachment, etc.
3
Fees increased in Excess of CPI (less than cost of 
service):
• Police – Outside Detail Rates
• Public Works – Wastewater Capacity Charge, 
Various fees
163 of 302

--- page 164 ---
Revision Highlights
Reduced Fee:
• Public Works – Wireless Permits – Annual License Fee (to comply with 
FCC order limiting amount of fee)
4
Eliminated Fees:
• Library – Passport Processing Services
• Parks & Recreation – Mobile Homes In Lieu Fees
164 of 302

--- page 165 ---
Thank You
Karley Toffey
Senior Management Analyst
Finance Department
ktoffey@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7106
5
165 of 302

--- page 166 ---
Required 
Board 
Action
• Adopt a resolution to approve 
the 2024-2025 Comprehensive 
Fee Schedule
6
166 of 302

--- page 167 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-4651
File ID: 24-8586
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
April 15, 2024 
SUBJECT:
2024-29 Capital Improvement Plan Preview
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a preview and provide feedback on the 2024-29 Capital Improvement Plan.
BACKGROUND:
As part of the Capital Improvement Program (CIP) budget development process, City departments prepare funding 
requests that capture five-year capital project needs. Total project costs are developed and tied to appropriate funding 
sources, such as the General Fund, Measure S, or special revenues such as those restricted to transportation purposes or 
the sewer enterprise fund. New and ongoing capital project requests are prioritized and recommended for funding 
through review and analysis by the City Manager, Assistant City Manager, Public Works Director, Parks and Recreation 
Director, and Finance Director. The prioritization process includes evaluating the criticality of a project with regard to 
public health and safety, maintaining the viability of a City asset or facility, whether projects are already underway with 
existing investments, and whether a project can be phased to spread costs over a longer period of time.  
A primary focus of the five-year CIP budget development process is balancing available General Fund and Measure S 
funding with project budget needs, while determining if future deficits require additional revenue sources. Annually, 
capital project contributions from the General Fund and Measure S typically total $4.25 million and $3.0 million, 
respectively, for a total available contribution of $7.25 million. After closing out completed projects with remaining 
balances from these sources, the 2024-25 amount available for allocation is greater at $9.95 million. Preliminary General 
Fund CIP project budget requests, including Measure S, total $9.6 million for 2024-25, with a proposed $6.5 million 
requested for existing projects and $3.1 million for new projects.  
With the typical available funding, the five-year CIP projects a total revenue of $39.0 million from the General Fund and 
Measure S for Capital Projects. When looking at projected needs, staff estimates a total of $70.3 million in project budget 
requests, resulting in a five-year deficit of $31.4 million. As part of the current budget process, staff will continue 
prioritizing the outer years of the five-year CIP to develop a plan that matches available revenue but wanted to provide the 
Council with the full picture of capital needs. Consistent with the Council’s adopted Blue Sky priority to have a 
comprehensive review of capital needs, staff will be coming back to Council in the coming fiscal year to dive deeper into 
the challenges of meeting the needs of maintaining and upgrading City facilities with limited available revenue.  
Special revenue and restricted funding, including Gas Tax, Measure A, Measure W, Measure M, and Road Maintenance 
and Rehabilitation Account (RMRA) funds, are restricted for specific purposes. For example, use of Gas Tax revenues is 
generally limited to public streets and highways, while Measure A is typically the City’s sole non-General Fund grant 
matching fund source for transportation projects. The average annual revenue allocated to Capital Projects from these 
funding sources totals $8.3 million; however, after closing out completed projects with remaining balances from these 
167 of 302

--- page 168 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
sources, the 2024-25 amount available for allocation is greater at $11.1 million. The proposed project budget requests 
funded from these special revenue and restricted funding sources total $11.0 million for 2024-25, with $10.4 million 
requested for existing projects and $0.6 million for new projects. The five-year CIP projects a total revenue of $44.3 million 
from special revenue and restricted funding and a total of $42.8 million in transportation-related project budget requests.  
The City also has restricted sewer and storm funding, via ongoing sewer rates and the newly approved Community Flood 
and Stormwater Protection Fee. For the sanitary sewer system, the CIP includes significant sewer system improvement 
projects, primarily all part of the 10-year, $1 billion Clean Water Program. Sewer CIP projects are fully funded from the 
rate revenue, with $27.8 million proposed for 2024-25. With the new Stormwater Protection Fee, which generates 
approximately $4.0 million annually, staff is establishing a new restricted fund to include operational and CIP needs. The 
ongoing annual revenue available for stormwater CIP projects will need to be established over time, but staff are currently 
planning for $3.5 million available for capital needs. Staff will be updating the City‘s Storm Drain Master Plan during 2024-
25, which will provide a prioritized capital improvement program for 2025-26 and beyond that will need to be 
incorporated into future Council discussions and budgets. For 2024-25, $0.5 million from the Stormwater Protection Fee 
revenue will be used to fund stormwater CIP projects.
The following table details the five-year CIP needs, with 2024-25 as a proposed CIP that matches available revenue/funds 
and years two through five as total needs irrespective of available revenue. The five-year needs total $269.4 million with 
$65.7 million proposed for 2024-25. By project type, the total five-year CIP needs can generally be broken down into 
$103.3 million (38.4%) for sewer-related projects, including the Clean Water Program (funded by sewer enterprise funds), 
$67.4 million (25.0%) for building- and facility-related projects (primarily General Fund and Measure S), $54.2 million 
(20.1%) for transportation projects including street rehabilitation and bicycle/pedestrian improvements (primarily 
transportation-focused special revenue and restricted funding), $23.2 million (8.6%) for parks-related projects (primarily 
General Fund, Measure S, and Parks and Recreation fees), $9.9 million (3.7%) for miscellaneous/other project types, $9.8 
million (3.6%) for bridge improvements, and $1.6 million (0.6%) for storm-related projects. 
Project Budget Requests by Project Type (All Funding Sources)
Project Type
2024-25 
Proposed
2025-26
Need
2026-27
Need
2027-28
Need
2028-29
Need
Bridges
$8,930,000
$800,000
$20,000
-
-
Buildings/Facilities
$9,543,600
$32,425,000
$21,010,000
$3,210,000
$1,210,000
Parks & Recreation
$4,833,000
$13,406,828
$1,895,000
$1,775,000
$1,275,000
Sewer
$27,806,000
$7,812,000
$27,660,000
$20,725,000
$19,320,000
Stormwater
$1,000,000
$150,000
$150,000
$150,000
$150,000
Streets & Transportation
$9,281,420
$11,275,319
$15,018,636
$9,725,000
$8,875,000
Miscellaneous/Other
$4,307,000
$2,139,000
$1,227,000
$1,227,000
$1,027,000
TOTAL
$65,701,020
$68,008,147
$66,980,636
$36,812,000
$31,857,000
As indicated above, there is a significant projected CIP deficit with regard to projects that rely on General Fund and 
Measure S. Some of the major contributors to the deficit include structural upgrades to the 2nd and El Camino Real parking 
garage ($18.0 million), multiple recreation center and City Hall roof replacements ($3.9 million), structural repair of the 
Main Library Garage ($4 million), City Council Chamber improvements ($6.5 million), waterproofing and painting the Main 
Street, Central, and Transit Parking Garages ($5.7 million), and Phase VI of park restroom refurbishment ($1.3 million), all 
of which highlight the significant need related to City facilities due to aging infrastructure. Staff will be implementing a 
comprehensive facilities assessment during 2024-25, which may identify additional capital needs for the dozens of City 
facilities.    
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no direct budgetary impact resulting from this report.  The 2024-29 CIP Preview identifies $269.4 million in capital 
168 of 302

--- page 169 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
improvement needs, predominantly reflecting sewer, building/facilities, and streets and transportation projects.  Any 
feedback and/or direction received from the Council as a result of this report and supporting presentation will be 
incorporated into the FY 2024-25 proposed CIP budget and the 2024-29 five-year capital improvement program.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This budget preview is not a project subject CEQA because it is a government fiscal activity, which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - 2024-29 CIP Preview by Project Type
STAFF CONTACT
Matt Fabry, Public Works Director
mfabry@cityofsanmateo.org
650 522 7309
169 of 302

--- page 170 ---
Att 1 - 2024-29 CIP Project Needs by Project Type
Preliminary for Budget Discussion Purposes Only
Project 
Type
Project
2024-25
Proposed
2025-26
Project Needs
2026-27
Project Needs
2027-28
Project Needs
2028-29
Project Needs
5-Year Total
Bridges
462250
Bermuda Drive Bridge Replacement
8,880,000
            
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
8,880,000
               
462004
Citywide Bridge Maintenance
50,000
                   
50,000
                   
20,000
                   
-
                                 
-
                                 
120,000
                   
NEW
Ryder Creek Bridge Painting
-
                                 
750,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
750,000
                   
Bridges Total
8,930,000
$          
800,000
$               
20,000
$                 
-
$                          
-
$                          
9,750,000
$             
Buildings/Facilities
469031
ADA Compliance and Transition Planning
-
                                 
250,000
                
35,000
                   
35,000
                   
35,000
                   
355,000
                   
460058
ADA Entry Compliance - Beresford
350,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
350,000
                   
46f033
Beresford Basketball Court Resurface
-
                                 
200,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
200,000
                   
NEW
Beresford Recreation Center: Roof Replacement
-
                                 
700,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
700,000
                   
NEW
Central Recreation Center: Roof Replacement
450,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
450,000
                   
NEW
City Hall - Council Chambers Improvements
-
                                 
600,000
                
6,500,000
            
-
                                 
-
                                 
7,100,000
               
NEW
City Hall - Roof Replacement
-
                                 
-
                                 
1,600,000
            
-
                                 
-
                                 
1,600,000
               
46f008
City Hall Improvements
100,000
                
100,000
                
100,000
                
100,000
                
-
                                 
400,000
                   
46f030
Citywide Facilities Condition Assessment
600,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
600,000
                   
460057
Citywide Fire - Intrusion Alarm System Upgrade
250,000
                
250,000
                
250,000
                
250,000
                
-
                                 
1,000,000
               
46F003
Corp Yard Misc Improvements
-
                                 
-
                                 
1,000,000
            
1,000,000
            
-
                                 
2,000,000
               
46F013
Corp Yard Underground Tank Replacement
750,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
750,000
                   
NEW
Corp Yard: Park Maint Yard: Women's RR/Lockers
-
                                 
350,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
350,000
                   
NEW
Corporation Yard Paving
150,000
                
800,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
950,000
                   
461001
Downtown Parking Improvements
-
                                 
100,000
                
100,000
                
100,000
                
100,000
                
400,000
                   
NEW
Downtown Restrooms
25,000
                   
25,000
                   
25,000
                   
25,000
                   
25,000
                   
125,000
                   
46F005
Exterior and Interior Painting - Central Park Garage
300,000
                
-
                                 
2,000,000
            
-
                                 
-
                                 
2,300,000
               
46F006
Exterior and Interior Painting - Transit Center
-
                                 
-
                                 
900,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
900,000
                   
NEW
Fire Station 21 - Interior Painting
-
                                 
200,000
                
200,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
400,000
                   
NEW
Fire Station 27 - Roof Replacement
-
                                 
-
                                 
500,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
500,000
                   
NEW
Hillsdale Library - Roof Replacement
-
                                 
-
                                 
500,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
500,000
                   
46f036
King Center Resiliency Improvements
850,000
                
3,000,000
            
3,000,000
            
-
                                 
-
                                 
6,850,000
               
NEW
King Recreation Center: Roof Replacement
-
                                 
900,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
900,000
                   
46f028
Lakeshore Recreation Center ADA Entry
-
                                 
100,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
100,000
                   
46f034
Los Prados Court Lighting Improvements
-
                                 
300,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
300,000
                   
NEW
Main Library Improvements
-
                                 
100,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
100,000
                   
46F016
Main Library Painting
-
                                 
800,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
800,000
                   
NEW
Main Library: Carpet Replacement
-
                                 
650,000
                
650,000
                
650,000
                
-
                                 
1,950,000
               
NEW
Main Library: Lighting Controls Upgrade
300,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
300,000
                   
NEW
Main Library: Parking Garage Structural Repair
-
                                 
1,000,000
            
1,000,000
            
1,000,000
            
1,000,000
            
4,000,000
               
NEW
Main Street Garage - Waterproofing
50,000
                   
1,300,000
            
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
1,350,000
               
170 of 302

--- page 171 ---
Project 
Type
Project
2024-25
Proposed
2025-26
Project Needs
2026-27
Project Needs
2027-28
Project Needs
2028-29
Project Needs
5-Year Total
665100
Marina Library Structural Improvements
3,858,600
            
300,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
4,158,600
               
46f021
Offices - Acoustic attenuation - City Hall
75,000
                   
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
75,000
                      
460054
Paint Exterior Main Street Garage
-
                                 
-
                                 
1,500,000
            
-
                                 
-
                                 
1,500,000
               
46F018
Panic Buttons at Counters and Offices
(65,000)
                  
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
(65,000)
                    
46F025
Parking Facility Structural Repairs
-
                                 
18,000,000
         
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
18,000,000
            
NEW
Parking Lot Resurfacing (Shoreline/Lakeshore/Los Prados/Beresford)
-
                                 
600,000
                
600,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
1,200,000
               
NEW
Police Station: Parking Deck Resurfacing
1,300,000
            
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
1,300,000
               
NEW
Police Station: Parking Garage Waterproofing
-
                                 
50,000
                   
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
50,000
                      
NEW
Recreation Center Backup Generator Connection
50,000
                   
50,000
                   
50,000
                   
50,000
                   
50,000
                   
250,000
                   
NEW
Senior Center: Roof Replacement
-
                                 
700,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
700,000
                   
NEW
Shoreview Recreation Center - Roof Replacement
-
                                 
-
                                 
500,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
500,000
                   
NEW
Tennis Court Garage Lifespan Evaluation
50,000
                   
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
50,000
                      
NEW
WWTP Paving
100,000
                
1,000,000
            
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
1,100,000
               
Buildings/Facilities Total
9,543,600
$          
32,425,000
$       
21,010,000
$       
3,210,000
$          
1,210,000
$          
67,398,600
$          
Miscellaneous
310600
Child Care Facilities
450,000
                
450,000
                
450,000
                
450,000
                
450,000
                
2,250,000
               
NEW
Citywide Assistive Listening Devices
-
                                 
200,000
                
200,000
                
200,000
                
-
                                 
600,000
                   
NEW
Citywide Fence Improvements
100,000
                
100,000
                
100,000
                
100,000
                
100,000
                
500,000
                   
310520
Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Community Facilities
40,000
                   
40,000
                   
40,000
                   
40,000
                   
40,000
                   
200,000
                   
310026
Community Development Department Services Improvement - Electronic and Digital
250,000
                
250,000
                
250,000
                
250,000
                
250,000
                
1,250,000
               
46c004
Development Design Standards
75,000
                   
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
75,000
                      
460037
El Camino Real at Highway 92 Landscapre Improvement
3,000,000
            
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
3,000,000
               
46c003
Green Fleet Charging Infrastructure Projects
125,000
                
100,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
225,000
                   
315000
Housing Rehabilitation
60,000
                   
60,000
                   
60,000
                   
60,000
                   
60,000
                   
300,000
                   
310521
Minor Home Repair
127,000
                
127,000
                
127,000
                
127,000
                
127,000
                
635,000
                   
513000
Police Radios - Hand Held and Mobile
-
                                 
772,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
772,000
                   
NEW
Seal Point Park Pond H2S Investigation and Remediation
80,000
                   
40,000
                   
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
120,000
                   
Miscellaneous Total
4,307,000
$          
2,139,000
$          
1,227,000
$          
1,227,000
$          
1,027,000
$          
9,927,000
$             
Parks & Recreation
NEW
Laurelwood Park 
-
                                 
775,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
775,000
                   
NEW
Parkside Aquatic Play Area  
400,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
400,000
                   
NEW
Beresford Pickleball Courts
25,000
                   
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
25,000
                      
NEW
Beresford: Picnic Shelter Slab Replacement
-
                                 
50,000
                   
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
50,000
                      
610027
Central Park
3,700,000
            
3,000,000
            
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
6,700,000
               
NEW
Citywide Emergency Field Lighting
120,000
                
120,000
                
120,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
360,000
                   
610014
Citywide Park Fencing and Structures
200,000
                
200,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
400,000
                   
610017
Citywide Park Play Area Upgrade
(3,700,000)
          
241,828
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
(3,458,172)
             
46F024
Gateway Park Pedestrian Bridge Improvements
300,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
300,000
                   
618278
Golf Course - Well Drilling
53,000
                   
250,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
303,000
                   
171 of 302

--- page 172 ---
Project 
Type
Project
2024-25
Proposed
2025-26
Project Needs
2026-27
Project Needs
2027-28
Project Needs
2028-29
Project Needs
5-Year Total
618280
Golf Course Upgrades FY 2018-19 (Golf Sub-Fund)
-
                                 
85,000
                   
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
85,000
                      
610060
Irrigation Controller Upgrade
100,000
                
100,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
200,000
                   
NEW
Japanese Garden Repairs
-
                                 
250,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
250,000
                   
NEW
Lakeshore Basketball Court - Resurface
-
                                 
400,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
400,000
                   
NEW
Lakeshore Childcare
1,250,000
            
3,250,000
            
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
4,500,000
               
NEW
Laurelwood Park Playground TBC
-
                                 
1,610,000
            
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
1,610,000
               
NEW
Laurelwood Park Retaining Wall Repair
100,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
100,000
                   
NEW
Los Prados Basketball Court - Resurface
-
                                 
450,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
450,000
                   
NEW
Los Prados: Picnic Area Improvements
-
                                 
50,000
                   
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
50,000
                      
462897
Park Citywide Playground Equipment Replacement - Public Works
500,000
                
500,000
                
500,000
                
500,000
                
500,000
                
2,500,000
               
46F015
Park Restroom Phase V
150,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
150,000
                   
NEW
Park Restroom Refurbishment - Phase VI
-
                                 
1,300,000
            
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
1,300,000
               
46F023
Shoreview Basketball Court Resurfacing
-
                                 
-
                                 
500,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
500,000
                   
610038
Skate Plaza Updates
185,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
185,000
                   
610023
Sports Fields Conversion - Synthetic Turf
1,000,000
            
500,000
                
500,000
                
1,000,000
            
500,000
                
3,500,000
               
610008
Tree Planting - Parks Division
450,000
                
275,000
                
275,000
                
275,000
                
275,000
                
1,550,000
               
Parks & Recreation Total
4,833,000
$          
13,406,828
$       
1,895,000
$          
1,775,000
$          
1,275,000
$          
23,184,828
$          
Sewer
46s191
Annual Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation
-
                                 
-
                                 
7,120,000
            
10,350,000
         
8,500,000
            
25,970,000
            
46s005
Basin 4 Collection System Improvements
(14,000,000)
        
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
(14,000,000)
          
46s091
Clean Water Program (CWP) Annual Citywide Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation
11,000,000
         
2,900,000
            
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
13,900,000
            
46s093
Clean Water Program (CWP) Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) Inspection Program
700,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
700,000
                   
46t090
Clean Water Program (CWP) WWTP Annual Major Components
2,100,000
            
2,000,000
            
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
4,100,000
               
469988
East San Mateo Lift Station
533,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
533,000
                   
469981
Program Management - Sewer Projects
(5,000,000)
          
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
(5,000,000)
             
469933
Root Foaming
400,000
                
412,000
                
425,000
                
438,000
                
452,000
                
2,127,000
               
46s193
Sanitary Sewer CCTV Inspection Program
-
                                 
-
                                 
900,000
                
635,000
                
955,000
                
2,490,000
               
46s190
Sanitary Sewer Flow Monitoring and Reporting
-
                                 
-
                                 
125,000
                
125,000
                
125,000
                
375,000
                   
46s192
Sanitary Sewer Pump Station Upgrades
-
                                 
-
                                 
13,020,000
         
3,000,000
            
3,000,000
            
19,020,000
            
46s101
TMDL Enhanced Planning and Infrastructure Improvements
2,500,000
            
2,500,000
            
2,500,000
            
2,500,000
            
2,500,000
            
12,500,000
            
46t003
WWTP and Flow Management Upgrade and Expansion
29,573,000
         
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
29,573,000
            
46t190
WWTP Annual Repairs
-
                                 
-
                                 
3,570,000
            
3,677,000
            
3,788,000
            
11,035,000
            
Sewer Total
27,806,000
$       
7,812,000
$          
27,660,000
$       
20,725,000
$       
19,320,000
$       
103,323,000
$       
Stormwater
46c005
Adaptation Plan
50,000
                   
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
50,000
                      
46c002
Citywide Soil Stabilization
450,000
                
150,000
                
150,000
                
150,000
                
150,000
                
1,050,000
               
NEW
Marina Lagoon Dredging Design/Permitting
500,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
500,000
                   
Stormwater Total
1,000,000
$          
150,000
$               
150,000
$               
150,000
$               
150,000
$               
1,600,000
$             
172 of 302

--- page 173 ---
Project 
Type
Project
2024-25
Proposed
2025-26
Project Needs
2026-27
Project Needs
2027-28
Project Needs
2028-29
Project Needs
5-Year Total
Streets & Transportation
46r015
101 / 92 Multi-Modal (Fashion Island Class IV Bike Lane)
554,545
                
831,819
                
4,188,636
            
-
                                 
-
                                 
5,575,000
               
NEW
28th Avenue Gap Closure Construction
550,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
550,000
                   
NEW
Alameda De Las Pulgas and Barneson Intersection Safety and Optimization
-
                                 
200,000
                
700,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
900,000
                   
46r024
Bike San Mateo Program
250,000
                
902,000
                
700,000
                
700,000
                
-
                                 
2,552,000
               
465162
Citywide Bicycle Parking
-
                                 
10,000
                   
10,000
                   
-
                                 
-
                                 
20,000
                      
461008
Citywide Paid Parking Evaluation and Implementation
-
                                 
66,500
                   
155,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
221,500
                   
46r019
Citywide Safe Routes to School Program
240,000
                
240,000
                
240,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
720,000
                   
466607
Citywide Sign Inventory and Replacement
-
                                 
150,000
                
150,000
                
150,000
                
-
                                 
450,000
                   
467771
Citywide Street Reconstruction Package I
675,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
675,000
                   
467772
Citywide Street Reconstruction Package II
(3,994,898)
          
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
(3,994,898)
             
467773
Citywide Street Reconstruction Package III
5,319,898
            
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
5,319,898
               
467001
Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package I
(325,000)
               
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
(325,000)
                  
467008
Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package II
(550,000)
               
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
(550,000)
                  
467009
Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package III
(375,000)
               
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
(375,000)
                  
469997
Citywide Street Rehabilitation Program
6,050,000
            
8,100,000
            
8,100,000
            
8,100,000
            
8,100,000
            
38,450,000
            
466600
Citywide Traffic Calming
150,000
                
150,000
                
150,000
                
150,000
                
150,000
                
750,000
                   
465333
Citywide Traffic Signal Retiming
-
                                 
25,000
                   
25,000
                   
25,000
                   
25,000
                   
100,000
                   
461214
Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Projects
750,000
                
450,000
                
450,000
                
450,000
                
450,000
                
2,550,000
               
46r022
Delaware Safe Routes to School Corridor
1,400,000
            
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
1,400,000
               
46r017
Downtown Grade Separation Study
(1,100,000)
          
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
(1,100,000)
             
46R009
Grammercy Drive Retaining Wall
-
                                 
50,000
                   
50,000
                   
50,000
                   
50,000
                   
200,000
                   
46r011
High Priority Bicycle Project Design Package
(452,000)
               
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
(452,000)
                  
46r018
Hillsdale Bike Ped Bridge Feasibility
(165,000)
               
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
(165,000)
                  
46r001
Hillsdale Boulevard and Alameda De Las Pulgas Signal
400,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
400,000
                   
462226
Neighborhood Traffic Management
100,000
                
100,000
                
100,000
                
100,000
                
100,000
                
500,000
                   
NEW
Quick Build Mobility Program
500,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
500,000
                   
46M001 Railroad Crossing Improvements
(846,125)
               
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
(846,125)
                  
46r023
Traffic Impact Fee Update
(100,000)
               
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
(100,000)
                  
462205
Train Quiet Zone
250,000
                
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
250,000
                   
Streets & Transportation Total
9,281,420
$          
11,275,319
$       
15,018,636
$       
9,725,000
$          
8,875,000
$          
54,175,375
$          
Grand Total
65,701,020
$       
68,008,147
$       
66,980,636
$       
36,812,000
$       
31,857,000
$       
269,358,803
$       
173 of 302

--- page 174 ---
2024-29 Capital 
Improvement 
Plan Preview
CIP Study Session
April 15, 2024
1
174 of 302

--- page 175 ---
Agenda
• Funding Sources
• 2024-29 CIP Preview
• Unfunded Projects
2
175 of 302

--- page 176 ---
General Fund & Measure S
3
Revenue Source
Annual 
Baseline 
Amount
2024-25
Amount
General Fund Contribution
$4.25 M
$4.25 M
Measure S
$3.00 M
$3.70 M
Closed Projects*
$2.00 M
Total
$7.25 M
$9.95 M
*Remaining funding projected to be released from closing completed projects.
176 of 302

--- page 177 ---
General Fund & Measure S
4
Category
2024-25 
Proposed
2025-26
Project Needs
2026-27
Project Needs
2027-28
Project Needs
2028-29
Project Needs
Contributions to CIP
$9,950
$7,250
$7,250
$7,250
$7,250
Project Budget Requests
$9,637
$32,334
$20,535
$4,960
$2,860
Net Total
$313
($25,084)
($13,285)
$2,290
$4,390
2024-29 Resources vs Requested (in thousands)
177 of 302

--- page 178 ---
General Fund & Measure S
5
2024-29 Resources vs Requests (in millions)
178 of 302

--- page 179 ---
General Fund & Measure S
6
Project Type
2024-25 
Proposed
2025-26 
Project Needs
2026-27 
Project Needs
2027-28 
Project Needs
2028-29 
Project Needs
Funded Projects
$6,492
$21,289
$7,990
$2,935
$1,685
New Projects
$3,145
$11,045
$12,545
$2,025
$1,175
Total
$9,637
$32,334
$20,535
$4,960
$2,860
2024-29 Project Needs (in thousands)
179 of 302

--- page 180 ---
General Fund & Measure S
7
Project Type
2024-25 
Proposed
2025-26 
Project Needs
2026-27 
Project Needs
2027-28 
Project Needs
2028-29 
Project Needs
Bridges
$300
$750
-
-
-
Buildings/Facilities
$6,517
$25,625
$17,910
$3,110
$1,210
Parks & Recreation
$2,495
$3,670
$1,120
$500
$500
Stormwater
-
$150
$150
$150
$150
Streets/Transportation
$100
$967
$1,055
$900
$900
Misc.
$225
$1,172
$300
$300
$100
Total
$9,637
$32,269
$20,535
$4,960
$2,860
2024-29 Project Requests by Project Type (in thousands)
180 of 302

--- page 181 ---
General Fund & Measure S
8
Marina Library Structural 
Improvements
$2,100,000
Police Station Parking Deck 
Resurfacing
$1,300,000
Corp Yard Underground 
Tank Replacement
$617,000
181 of 302

--- page 182 ---
General Fund & Measure S
9
Citywide Facilities 
Condition Assessment
$600,000
Quick Build Mobility 
Program
$500,000
Parks Citywide Playground 
Equipment Replacement
$500,000
182 of 302

--- page 183 ---
General Fund & Measure S
2nd & El Camino Garage:
• Critical structural component repairs
• Weatherproofing installation
• Security and signage upgrades
• Pedestrian safety improvements
Total Project Need: $18.0 M
10
Parking Facility Structural Improvements
183 of 302

--- page 184 ---
General Fund & Measure S
11
City Council Chambers 
Improvements
$7,100,000
Facility Roof Replacements 
at Various Locations
$5,850,000
Garage Painting and 
Waterproofing
$5,200,000
184 of 302

--- page 185 ---
Special Revenue Funds
12
Revenue Source
Annual 
Baseline 
Amount
2024-25 
Amount
Gas Tax
$1.30 M
$2.30 M
Measure A
$3.30 M
$3.60 M
Measure M
$0.35 M
$0.95 M
Measure W
$1.00 M
$1.05 M
RMRA
$2.70 M
$3.20 M
Total
$8.30 M
$11.10 M
185 of 302

--- page 186 ---
Special Revenue Funds
13
Project Type
2024-25 
Proposed
2025-26 
Project Needs
2026-27 
Project Needs
2027-28 
Project Needs
2028-29 
Project Needs
Gas Tax
$2,300
$1,300
$1,300
$1,300
$1,300
Measure A
$3,453
$2,877
$3,345
$2,175
$2,025
Measure M
$950
$350
$350
$350
$350
Measure W
$1,050
$1,000
$1,000
$1,000
$1,000
RMRA
$3,200
$2,700
$2,700
$2,700
$2,700
Total
$10,953
$8,227
$8,695
$7,525
$7,375
2024-29 Project Requests by Funding Source (in thousands)
186 of 302

--- page 187 ---
Special Revenue Funds
14
Project Type
2024-25 
Proposed
2025-26 
Project Needs
2026-27 
Project Needs
2027-28 
Project Needs
2028-29 
Project Needs
Bike/Pedestrian
$323
$452
$450
-
-
Bridges
$2,530
$50
$20
-
-
Streets
$7,000
$7,450
$7,450
$7,450
$7,300
Traffic
$850
$275
$775
$75
$75
Misc.
$250
-
-
-
-
Total
$10,953
$8,227
$8,695
$7,525
$7,375
2024-29 Project Requests by Project Type (in thousands)
187 of 302

--- page 188 ---
2024-29 5-Year CIP Plan/Needs
15
Project Type
2024-25 
Proposed
2025-26 
Project Needs
2026-27 
Project Needs
2027-28 
Project Needs
2028-29 
Project Needs
Bridges
$8,930
$800
$20
-
-
Buildings/Facilities
$9,544
$32,425
$21,010
$3,210
$1,210
Parks & Recreation
$4,833
$13,407
$1,895
$1,775
$1,275
Sewer
$27,806
$7,812
$27,660
$20,725
$19,320
Stormwater
$1,000
$150
$150
$150
$150
Streets/Transportation
$9,281
$11,275
$15,019
$9,725
$8,875
Misc.
$3,490
$1,322
$300
$300
$100
Total
$63,634
$60,664
$66,079
$35,810
$30,855
*Shown in thousands
188 of 302

--- page 189 ---
2024-29 5-Year CIP Plan/Needs
16
Project Type
5-Year 
Project Needs Percentage
Bridges
$9,750
3.6%
Buildings/Facilities
$67,399
25.0%
Parks & Recreation
$23,185
8.6%
Sewer
$103,323
38.4%
Stormwater
$1,600
0.6%
Streets & Transportation
$54,175
20.1%
Miscellaneous/Other
$9,927
3.7%
Total
$269,358
*Shown in thousands
189 of 302

--- page 190 ---
Preliminary Unfunded Projects
Preliminary Unfunded Projects Total : $324 M
• Will increase as 5-year CIP is prioritized
Priority Unfunded Projects:
• Central Park - $64.5 M
• New Downtown Parking Garage - $32.0 M
• New Corp Yard Facility - $26.0 M
• Aquatic Facility Improvements $20.0 M
17
190 of 302

--- page 191 ---
City Plaza Office Space
Current Lease:
• Ends March 2025
• Approximately $570k annually
• Houses PW Engineering staff
Future Needs:
• Consider whether to relocate 
staff
18
191 of 302

--- page 192 ---
THANK YOU!

192 of 302


--- page 193 ---
From:
Mason Fong
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Clerk
Subject:
Re: Public Comment for 4/15/24 Council Agenda Items 7, 12 & 13
Date:
Monday, April 15, 2024 9:22:16 PM
Attachments:
Screen Shot 2024-04-15 at 6.35.22 PM.png
Screen Shot 2024-04-15 at 6.24.18 PM.png
Screen Shot 2024-04-15 at 9.18.35 PM.png
Council,
Apologies as I didn't get to raise my hand in time for the public comment on the CIP.
To add, I am a big fan of using funds as a way to save money over time. I see online that the
2022 Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR) shows the City had at the time $766
million in investment funds to play with (granted most of these funds are probably in long
term investments that aren't liquid, but some may be liquid investments that could be
transferred to the general fund now). I would see this funding as a source of funding to utilize
towards the CIP to invest in major projects that would benefit from current investment and
save costs from future repair, such as some of the garages mentioned during staff presentation.
I was told in the past that the smarter cities actually spent $ in 2008 during the crash rather
than cutting funding and being conservative, which saved costs in labor/construction costs for
public works projects.
I think about the math this way - the ~3% revenue increase these investment funds are gaining
per year are losing to inflation and won't be more savings than current investment in projects
that would save more money over time, thus reinvestment of investment funds into public
works projects would be a better investment.
- I recommend Council ask about utilizing investment funds towards the CIP
On Mon, Apr 15, 2024 at 6:46 PM Mason Fong <masonraymondfong@gmail.com> wrote:
Greetings Councilmembers,
Just wanted to share a few thoughts on the Council agenda tonight:
193 of 302

--- page 194 ---
Item #7: Investment Policy
1. The State government code restricts investments in crypto currencies. However, the
State code does not restrict Cities from investing in convertible debt notes. From my
non-expert perspective of the State Code, the City may be able to theoretically contact
a company that is crypto-adjacent and make a deal to purchase a convertible debt note.
Example: The City of San Mateo contacts the company Microstrategy (MSTR) and
requests to purchase a convertible debt note that would amortize much better than the
City's current investments (which only bring in around 3% revenue/year), capitalizing
on crypto market trends. Without explaining the complexities of Bitcoin and why it is
a good asset to time through this funding strategy, just simply look at
MSTR's performance over the past year (which admittedly is cyclical and volatile). A
special convertible debt note might be able to be agreed upon that produces a more
positive result/return than the City's current investment vehicles.
- I would recommend the Council inquire with City staff if a City could purchase a
convertible debt note from a private company. If so, then this might be of merit in
studying, especially to address the recurring structural deficit related to the
VLF/ERAF issue.
Item #12: Capital Improvement Plan
1. Council should look at utilizing the City's Wastewater Treatment Facility as a revenue
source, making a deal with any other water provider to sell your excess water to them.
This is something I explored while working in the City of San Jose between the City
of San Jose and the Santa Clara Valley Water District and while as a Councilmember
in the City of Sunnyvale.
- I would recommend Council ask questions of City staff to see what plans the City
has to make water deals to generate revenue for the General Fund through the
Wasterwater Treatment Facility. If no plans at this time, this should be prioritized for
194 of 302

--- page 195 ---
further study.
2.  The Central Park Master Plan needs to incorporate the establishment of a permanent
dog park and a permanent basketball court. The current pilot dog park also needs more
resourcing in the form of a water station at the very least. We have baseball, softball,
tennis, pickleball but no basketball, this should be changed. I currently travel to Foster
City to play basketball with friends and have done so since growing up here.
- I would recommend Council motion to 1) add a water station to the current pilot dog
park & 2) direct City staff to return to Council at the next opportunity with a plan to
incorporate a permanent dog park at Central Park and a permanent Basketball Court.
Item #13: Budget
1. The City should look at Pension Obligation Bonds (POBs) as a mechanism to ease
UAL stresses on the budget and make smart investments that can pay off over time.
The City should consult with the City of San Jose's recent POB studies and hire
consultants to look at this as a solution to addressing the City's recurring structural
deficits resulting from the VLF/ERAF issue. If the State does not change the
VLF/ERAF issue, the City must get creative to ensure high quality public services
don't get cut over time and that city employees are protected in their pension outlooks.
Here is the study session from the City of San Jose in 2021.
- I recommend the Council ask about POBs and direct City staff to return to Council
at the next available time with a pro/con assessment of utilizing POBs either now or in
the future to meet unfunded liabilities.
Here is a slide from that study session of the potential positive impacts of POBs:
Thank you for your consideration and for your public service.
-- 
195 of 302

--- page 196 ---
Sincerely,

- Mason Fong

Sincerely,

- Mason _ =

196 of 302


--- page 197 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 24-8572
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
April 15, 2024 
SUBJECT:
General Fund 2024-25 Operating Budget – Preview and General Fund Ten-Year Forecast
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive the General Fund 2024-25 operating budget preview and General Fund ten-year forecast
BACKGROUND:
Development of the fiscal year 2024-25 budget has been underway since January, and the proposed budget document is 
beginning to take shape.  Before finalizing the proposed budget for City Council approval at a public hearing in June, staff 
wishes to provide a preview of the General Fund’s 2024-25 budget estimates for Council comment and direction.  
Additionally, this report includes a ten-year forecast of the General Fund to support budget planning discussions.
General Economic Conditions
This year’s budget development encountered notable challenges due to economic uncertainties, particularly concerning 
interest rates, inflation, and labor market conditions. Recent developments indicate that the U.S. and local economies 
remain strong. However, local government agencies continue to grapple with sustained inflation, a competitive labor 
market, and high interest rates.  These factors collectively have placed downward pressure on real estate-related tax 
revenues and increased costs of providing municipal services.
• Economic Growth:  Real GDP increased at an annual rate of 3.4% in the fourth quarter of 2023 (chart 1) and is 
projected to maintain a trend growth of 2.4% for both 2024 and 2025. 
• Labor Market:  The labor market remains robust with the U.S. unemployment rate stable at 3.8% as of March 2024 
(chart 2), and nonfarm payroll employment adding 303,000 jobs, significantly more than the 200,000 jobs economists 
expected.  San Mateo County’s unemployment rate, at 3.7%, is below the national average. 
• Inflation:  Inflation, measured by the Core Personal Consumption Expenditure Price Index (PCE), decreased to 2.9% in 
February 2024 (chart 3). Reduction in core PCE index signifies easing inflation, yet it is still higher than the Fed’s long-
term 2% target.  As such, inflation remains a concern to the economy. 
• Interest Rates - From March 2022 through July 2023, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) increased the 
federal funds rate eleven times in response to elevated inflation. Since July 2023, the federal funds rate has remained 
between 5.25% and 5.5%.  In the Federal Reserve’s March 2024 policy meeting, the Fed decided to keep the interest 
rates unchanged, marking the fourth consecutive meeting the Fed kept interest rates on hold.  With a strong labor 
market, the markets now anticipate the Fed will take a gradual and cautious approach on interest-rate adjustments 
(chart 4) and will likely wait until the latter half of 2024 before considering any rate cuts.
197 of 302

--- page 198 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Chart 1: U.S. Real GDP Growth
Chart 2:  U.S. Unemployment Rate
   Source: U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis
Chart 3: Inflation - Personal Consumption 
Expenditure (PCE) Index Year-Over-Year Change
Chart 4:  Market Projections for Federal Fund Rate 
General Fund 2024-25 Budget Preview 
The 2024-25 budget preview offers a rough estimate of the General Fund’s revenues and expenditures at the baseline budget 
levels. While not providing exact figures, this provides an early review of the City’s financial standing. 
Total General Fund revenues are projected to be $166.8 million, a $5.3 million (3.3%) increase compared to the 2023-24 
mid-year projections. The assumptions for major tax revenues are noted below: 
•
Property Tax:  Expected to reach $83.7 million, an increase of $5.3 million (or 6.8%) from the 2023-24 mid-year 
estimates, primarily due to secured property tax growth and assumed receipt of the 2022-23 VLF shortfall. 
•
Sales Tax:  Projected at $30.6 million, comprising $23.1 million of the local 1% (Bradley Burns) sales tax and $7.5 
million of local 1/4% (Measure S) transaction tax. Sales tax annual growth is expected to be moderate at 1%-2%.
•
Real Property Transfer Tax (RPTT):  Assumed to average $8 million, aligning with long-term baseline projections.
•
Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT): Anticipated to be at $4 million, reflecting a significant decrease from the previous 
projection of $7 million, due to the San Mateo Marriott closure.  
198 of 302

--- page 199 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Total General Fund expenditures are expected to reach $177.3 million, up $5.6 million (or 3.3%) compared to the 2023-24 
adopted budget.  
Personnel costs, including salaries, wages, overtime, healthcare, and pension, are projected to be $88.2 million. As a full-
service city, to provide core services, approximately half of the total General Fund expenditure is for employee 
compensation.  It’s worth noting that the City’s annual contribution to SMC Fire for fire services is currently included under 
other operating costs.  When factoring in the city’s share of SMC Fire’s personnel and legacy costs, the total personnel 
expenses will represent a higher percentage of the General Fund expenditures, approximately 68% rather than 50%. 
The projected personnel cost reflects negotiated increases in employee compensation, rising healthcare expenses, and 
increases in pension contributions. The latter of which will begin increasing significantly in fiscal year 2024-25 as a result of 
the California Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS) investment loss of negative 7.5% in fiscal year 2021-22.  It is 
anticipated that the unfunded pension liability payment will continue to increase until it reaches its peak in 2030-31 before 
gradually decreasing.  
Other General Fund expenditures include:
•
Non-personnel operating expenditures, projected to be $76.1 million, which reflects preliminary baseline budget 
projections and inflation adjustments.
•
Transfers out, anticipated to be $13.0 million, comprising of $8.0 million contributions to Capital Improvement 
Plan (CIP), of which $3.7 million from Measure S, $2.7 million from Measure S for debt service related to the 2020A 
Revenue Bonds issued for flood control and street rehabilitation projects, $2.0 million to replenish the General 
Liability Insurance Internal Service Fund’s fund balance, and $0.4 million annual contribution to the Equipment and 
Vehicle Replacement Fund for major building component replacement. 
In summary, the General Fund total expenditures are projected to exceed total revenues in 2024-25, resulting in a budget 
deficit of approximately $10.5 million. It will require drawing on the General Fund’s Rainy Day Reserve to maintain core 
services and investments in CIP.  
General Fund Ten-Year Forecast Scenarios
This year’s General Fund ten-year forecast has been challenging due to two major uncertainties: (1) VLF shortfalls and (2) 
the impacts of interest rates on real property-related tax revenues.
VLF Shortfalls
Property tax in-lieu of Vehicle License Fee (VLF) is a key component of the City’s property tax revenues, accounting for 
approximately 18% of total property tax revenues or approximately 10% of total General Fund revenues.  As explained by 
the County of San Mateo in Attachment 2, currently there is no reliable funding source for VLF shortfalls.  With more 
school districts shifting from non-basic-aid to basic-aid status, the County of San Mateo’s VLF shortfall continues to grow.  
The county-wide VLF shortfalls are expected to be $70 million for fiscal year 2022-23 and $114 million for fiscal year 2023-
24.  The City’s share of the countywide VLF shortfall is roughly 6%, translating to $4.2 million and $6.6 million for 2022-23 
and 2023-24, respectively.  Currently, there are only five non-basic-aid school districts remaining in the San Mateo County.  
The County forecasts that all school districts will become basic-aid schools within the next 7-8 years.  As such, the City’s 
VLF shortfall is projected to reach $24 million by 2034-35.
Historically, the State has reimbursed counties and cities for any in-lieu VLF shortfalls through a special appropriation in 
the State budget.  However, as the county-wide VLF shortfalls continue to widen, the State’s willingness to fund this 
obligation may diminish, particularly during fiscal years when the State experiences significant deficits.  As of this report, 
the State has not included the county-wide 2022-23 VLF shortfall of $70 million into its 2024-25 proposed budget.  
Therefore, it is imperative for the county and cities in San Mateo County to continue advocating for the VLF revenue, as 
losing State funding on VLF shortfalls would severely impact to the City’s financial health.  This funding should remain local 
as it is tax revenue remitted from property owners within the City and County.
199 of 302

--- page 200 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Interest Rates and Real Estate Market
Interest rates play an important role in the real estate market.  High-interest rates are expected to restrain economic 
activity and serve the Fed’s goal to gradually bring inflation down to the target 2%.  High-interest rates also dampen the 
real estate market, both residential and commercial.  Over the last 13 years, the City’s real property assessed value has 
grown annually by an average of 6.9%. Due to high interest rates, the real estate market has shown signs of slowing down.  
Property tax annual growth dropped to 5.5% in 2023-24 and is forecasted to further decline to 3.0% in 2024-25.   If interest 
rates persist at elevated levels, the cooling effect on the real estate market will continue to impact the City’s tax revenues.  
Staff remains optimistic about regional real estate demand, believing that once interest rates decrease, the real estate 
market will rebound.  However, the timing and pace of interest rate cuts remain uncertain, posing a significant challenge 
to the long-range forecast.
SCENARIO ANALYSIS:
The General Fund ten-year forecast (Attachment 1) illustrates the fiscal challenges and uncertainties facing the City, 
particularly VLF shortfalls and the impact of high interest rates on tax revenues.  To address these uncertainties, staff 
developed three scenarios - optimistic, pessimistic, and middle-ground - to outline potential fiscal outcomes, highlighting 
the needs for strategic planning and preparedness for various economic conditions to maintain the City’s long-term 
financial health.
Optimistic Scenario:  This scenario projects the highest growth in revenue sources, assuming favorable budget conditions. 
In this scenario, staff assumes that the State will backfill 100% of the City’s VLF shortfalls with a two-year gap and interest 
rates will start to decline within the next 12-24 months. Property tax, as the primary revenue source, is projected to 
experience significant annual growth (averaging 6% annually), alongside modest increases in other tax revenues.  As 
shown in Attachment 1 – Scenario B, this scenario reflects robust economic growth and optimistic fiscal health.  Although 
rising labor costs and unfunded pension liability continue to put pressure on the City’s operations, under this scenario, the 
General Fund maintains a healthy balance.  It projects that after a few years of operating deficits, the General Fund will 
start having surplus in the second half of the 10-year forecast, with its fund balance returning to the $100 million level by 
2034-35.  
Pessimistic Scenario: As shown in Attachment 1 – Scenario C, the State refuses to backfill the VLF shortfalls, resulting in 
significant revenue loss for the county and cities in San Mateo County. In addition, this scenario assumes that interest 
rates remain high and property tax experiences 3% annual growth for the next two fiscal years before aligning with the 4% 
long-term growth rate again. With slower growth in secured property tax and the possibility of losing VLF revenue, this 
scenario presents the most conservative projections.  If realized, the results would be devastating for the City.  And the 
City would need to make drastic cuts to service levels to balance the budget.  It highlights the importance of continuing to 
advocate for the VLF revenue and exercising cautious fiscal management.
Middle-Ground Scenario: Reflected in Attachment 1 – Scenario A is the middle ground scenario, which represents a 
balanced forecast, assuming a 4% year-over-year growth for property tax, reduced VLF revenues, RPTT at $8 million 
baseline, TOT at $4 million baseline, and moderate growth in all other major revenues.  In this scenario, the General Fund 
faces a structural deficit.  The General Fund total fund balance decreases to $31 million in 2034-35, which is just enough to 
cover 15% of the General Fund’s operating expenses.
OTHER CHALLENGES
City Facilities and Infrastructure Needs
In the April 15 meeting, Public Works staff will present a five-year CIP Budget Preview to the City Council, detailing the 
funding needs for City facilities and infrastructure improvements.  As outlined in Attachment 1, the three scenarios for the 
General Fund ten-year forecast were developed based on an assumption of $7.25 million baseline annual contribution to 
CIP from the General Fund.  The baseline CIP contributions include $4.25 million from the main General Fund and $3.0 
million from Measure S (a General Fund sub-fund).  The City’s funding needs for CIP far exceed these baseline annual 
200 of 302

--- page 201 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
contributions, not to mention the City still has over $300 million in unfunded CIP projects.  This underscores the 
substantial gap between current funding levels and the actual needs for capital improvements. 
Pension Costs
Due to the high degree of market volatility, CalPERS reported an investment loss of negative 7.5% in FY 2021-22, missing 
its long-term investment goal of 6.8%.   As a result, the City’s unfunded pension liabilities went up $101 million, driving the 
City’s total unfunded pension liabilities to nearly $300 million.  This investment loss will be amortized over a 20-year 
period, beginning in FY 2024-25.  
As shown in Chart 5, the City’s pension costs consist of two components: (1) normal cost and (2) unfunded accrued liability 
(UAL) payment.  While normal costs are projected to be steady and growing at a moderate pace, UAL payments are 
projected to increase significantly.  Due to the 2021-22 investment loss, the City will pay an additional $2 million to $8 
million annually for UAL during the five-year ramp-up period (2024-25 through 2028-29).  Once the five-year ramping has 
been completed, the increase in pension contributions is projected to be an additional $10 million per year for four years 
(2029-30 through 2032-33), as compared to that for 2023-24, before gradually decreasing.  The General Fund’s share of 
the UAL payments is roughly 86% of the citywide UAL, translating to an additional $2.1 million and $2.9 million for 2024-25 
and 2025-26, respectively, and then an additional $4 to $8 million per year until it peaks in 2030-31 before the UAL 
requirements start to ramp down. 
Chart 5:  Citywide All Funds - Pension Outlook
Source of information: CalPERS pension outlook.  * UAL payment includes Fire UAL legacy costs and is projected under the annual prepayment option.
RECOMMENDATIONS AND STRATEGIES 
In light of the uncertainties surrounding VLF and real estate market recovery, staff recommends taking the middle ground 
approach for the City's long-term planning.  More information, particularly regarding VLF funding, may become available in 
June. Staff will continue to provide the City Council with updates and refined forecasting.
Under the optimistic scenario, if the City continues to receive 100% VLF shortfalls from the State and the real estate 
market rebounds and remains strong, the General Fund’s deficits will be temporary.  While the City may not have 
sufficient resources to fully fund all CIP needs, it will be able to maintain core services and support baseline annual 
contributions to fund essential CIP projects.  Under the middle ground scenario, however, the City is projecting to face a 
structural deficit issue and will be required to take actions to balance the budget.
201 of 302

--- page 202 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Currently, the City’s General Fund is in a strong fiscal position with an estimated $109.9 million in reserves at the end of 
the current fiscal year 2023-24.  The estimated reserves include $39.4 million allocated to the Operating Reserve, $5.9 
million assigned to the Housing Set Aside, $8.3 million committed to CIP Projects, and $56.4 million for the Rainy Day 
Reserve.  
In contrast to the City’s limited fiscal position during the Great Recession, the City Council’s prudent fiscal discipline during 
the period of recovery and growth post-Great Recession placed the City’s General Fund in a solid position. This enabled the 
City to draw on its Rainy Day Reserve in times of economic uncertainties. As such, the City has the resources to navigate 
these uncertainties in the next 12-24 months.  It also gives the City time to plan for measurable actions to address the 
budget deficit issue and meet CIP funding needs.  
NEXT STEP:
Any feedback and/or direction received from the Council as a result of this report and supporting presentation will be 
incorporated into the recommended FY 2024-25 budget and corresponding long-term financial plan. Staff anticipates 
delivering the budget to the City Council with a public hearing and budget adoption in June.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no direct budgetary impact resulting from this report. The financial status of the General Fund will continue to be 
monitored.  Updated final estimates will be incorporated into the recommended 2024-26 Business Plan.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment.  
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - General Fund Ten-Year Forecast 
Scenario A – Middle Ground
Scenario B – Optimistic 
Scenario C – Pessimistic 
Att 2 - Conceptual Overview of the VLF shortfall in San Mateo County
STAFF CONTACT
Karen Huang, Finance Director
khuang@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7110
202 of 302

--- page 203 ---
City of San Mateo
Attachment 1
General Fund Ten-Year Forecast
Scenario A - Middle Ground
Note: Directional estimates are provided solely to facilitate budget planning discussions
*Revenue Assumptions on Property Tax:
(1) Property assessed values (AV) grow 4% annually.
(2) Property tax in-lieu of VLF (VLF):  Assuming the City will receive VLF revenue, but only at reduced levels.
$80.6 
$78.4 
$83.7 
$85.5 
$88.8 
$92.4 
$96.0 
$99.8 
$103.7 
$107.7 
$111.9 
$116.3 
$120.9 
-10
10
30
50
70
90
110
130
150
2022-23
 Actuals
2023-24
Mid-Year
Estimates
2024-25
Baseline
Budget
Est.
2025-26 2026-27 2027-28 2028-29 2029-30 2030-31 2031-32 2032-33 2033-34 2034-35
General Fund - Top 4 Tax Revenues
(in millions)
Property Tax*
Sales Tax (including Measure S)
Property Transfer Tax
TOT
0
50
100
150
200
250
2022-23
 Actuals
2023-24
Mid-Year
Estimates
2024-25
Baseline
Budget
Est.
2025-26
2026-27
2027-28
2028-29
2029-30
2030-31
2031-32
2032-33
2033-34
2034-35
General Fund Revenues vs. Expenses 
(in millions)
Operating Expenses (Baseline)
Contribution to CIP
Total Revenues
$117.9 
$109.9 
$99.4 
$90.4 
$80.5 
$70.8 
$60.1 
$50.4 
$41.7 
$35.5 
$31.2 
$30.2 
$31.7 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
2022-23
 Actuals
2023-24
Mid-Year
Estimates
2024-25
Baseline
Budget
Est.
2025-26 2026-27 2027-28 2028-29 2029-30 2030-31 2031-32 2032-33 2033-34 2034-35
General Fund Balance Forecast
(in millions)
General Fund - Ending Fund Balance
25% Operating Reserve
 $-
 $5
 $10
 $15
 $20
 $25
Millions
VLF Forecast 
Middle-Ground Scenario: Reduced Revenue
VLF available
VLF shortall backfilled by State
VLF Middle-Ground Scenario
VLF Best Scenario
VLF Worst Scenario
VLF entitlement
1 of 6
203 of 302

--- page 204 ---
City of San Mateo
General Fund Ten-Year Forecast
Attachment 1
Scenario A - Middle Ground (continued)
Note: Directional estimates are provided solely to facilitate budget planning discussions
10-YEAR FORECAST
GENERAL FUND
2022-23
 Actuals
2023-24 
Mid-Year 
Estimates
2024-25 
Baseline 
Budget Est.
2025-26 
2026-27 
2027-28 
2028-29 
2029-30 
2030-31 
2031-32 
2032-33 
2033-34 
2034-35 
REVENUES
Property Tax*
$80.6
$78.4
$83.7
$85.5
$88.8
$92.4
$96.0
$99.8
$103.7
$107.7
$111.9
$116.3
$120.9
Sales Tax (including Measure S)
29.6
             
29.9
             
30.6
                 
31.2
             
31.8
             
32.4
             
33.1
             
33.7
             
34.4
             
35.1
             
35.8
             
36.5
             
37.2
             
Property Transfer Tax
7.4
               
7.0
               
8.0
                   
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
TOT
6.1
               
5.3
               
4.0
                   
4.1
               
4.2
               
4.2
               
4.3
               
4.4
               
4.5
               
4.6
               
4.7
               
4.8
               
4.9
               
Other Taxes
12.4
             
10.1
             
9.9
                   
10.1
             
10.2
             
10.4
             
10.6
             
10.7
             
10.9
             
11.1
             
11.3
             
11.5
             
11.7
             
Charges for Services, Fees and Other
29.7
             
30.8
             
30.7
                 
31.5
             
32.4
             
33.3
             
34.3
             
35.3
             
36.3
             
37.3
             
38.4
             
39.5
             
40.6
             
Total Revenues
165.9
           
161.5
           
166.8
               
170.4
           
175.4
           
180.7
           
186.3
           
191.9
           
197.8
           
203.8
           
210.1
           
216.5
           
223.3
           
EXPENDITURES
Personnel Costs
67.7
             
68.7
             
75.3
                 
77.7
             
79.5
             
81.1
             
82.7
             
84.3
             
86.0
             
87.8
             
89.5
             
91.3
             
93.1
             
Non-Personnel Costs
34.8
             
37.7
             
39.9
                 
40.4
             
42.2
             
43.8
             
45.5
             
46.9
             
48.5
             
50.0
             
51.7
             
53.3
             
55.1
             
SMC Fire and Legacy Costs
32.8
             
34.3
             
36.1
                 
37.7
             
39.0
             
40.3
             
42.0
             
43.1
             
44.3
             
45.2
             
46.2
             
46.9
             
47.9
             
Pension Unfunded Liability
11.7
             
11.4
             
13.0
                 
13.3
             
14.3
             
15.0
             
16.5
             
17.0
             
17.3
             
16.8
             
16.7
             
15.8
             
15.5
             
Debt Service and Other Transfer Out
4.6
               
4.1
               
5.0
                   
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
Operating Expenses (Baseline)
151.6
           
156.3
           
169.3
               
172.2
           
178.0
           
183.2
           
189.7
           
194.4
           
199.2
           
202.8
           
207.1
           
210.4
           
214.6
           
Contribution to CIP
7.9
               
13.2
             
8.0
                   
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
Total Expenditures
159.5
           
169.5
           
177.3
               
179.4
           
185.3
           
190.5
           
196.9
           
201.7
           
206.4
           
210.1
           
214.3
           
217.6
           
221.8
           
Surplus / (Deficit)
6.4
(8.0)
(10.5)
(9.0)
(9.9)
(9.7)
(10.7)
(9.7)
(8.6)
(6.2)
(4.2)
(1.1)
1.5
General Fund - Beginning Fund Balance
111.5
117.9
109.9
99.4
90.4
80.5
70.8
60.1
50.4
41.7
35.5
31.2
30.2
General Fund - Ending Fund Balance
$117.9
$109.9
$99.4
$90.4
$80.5
$70.8
$60.1
$50.4
$41.7
$35.5
$31.2
$30.2
$31.7
Assumptions:
(1) Property assessed values grow 4% annually.
(2) Property tax in-lieu of VLF (VLF):  City will receive VLF revenue, but only at reduced levels.
2 of 6
204 of 302

--- page 205 ---
City of San Mateo
General Fund Ten-Year Forecast
Attachment 1
Scenario B - Optimistic
Note: Directional estimates are provided solely to facilitate budget planning discussions
*Revenue Assumptions on Property Tax:
(1) Property assessed value (AV) annual growth will slow down in the next two years, then rebound to 6% annual growth thereafter.
(2) Property tax in-lieu of VLF (VLF):  Assuming the State will backfill 100% of the VLF shortfall (with 2-year gap).
80.6 
78.4 
83.7 
88.4 
89.8 
94.0 
101.8 
108.6 
115.7 
120.5 
122.8 
128.1 
137.5 
-10
10
30
50
70
90
110
130
150
General Fund - Top 4 Tax Revenues
(in millions)
Property Tax*
Sales Tax (including Measure S)
Property Transfer Tax
TOT
0
50
100
150
200
250
General Fund Revenues vs. Expenses
(in million)
Operating Expenses (Baseline)
Contribution to CIP
General Fund Total Revenues
$117.9 
$109.9 
$99.4 
$93.2 
$84.4 
$76.3 
$71.4 
$70.4 
$73.8 
$80.3 
$86.9 
$97.7 
$115.8 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
General Fund Balance Forecast 
(in millions)
General Fund - Ending Fund Balance
25% Operating Reserve
$12 
$8 
$12 
$16 
$11 
$14 
$16 
$13 
$13 
$16 
$18 
$20 
$20 
$16 
$16 
$19 
 $-
 $5
 $10
 $15
 $20
 $25
Millions
VLF Forecast
100% Backfilled by State (with 2-Year Gap)
VLF available
VLF shortall backfilled by State
VLF - Best Scenario
VLF entitlement
3 of 6
205 of 302

--- page 206 ---
City of San Mateo
General Fund Ten-Year Forecast
Attachment 1
Scenario B - Optimistic (continued)
Note: Directional estimates are provided solely to facilitate budget planning discussions
10-YEAR FORECAST
2022-23
 Actuals
2023-24 
Mid-Year 
Estimates
2024-25 
Baseline 
Budget Est.
2025-26 
2026-27 
2027-28 
2028-29 
2029-30 
2030-31 
2031-32 
2032-33 
2033-34 
2034-35 
REVENUES
Property Tax*
80.6
             
78.4
             
83.7
                 
88.4
             
89.8
             
94.0
             
101.8
          
108.6
          
115.7
          
120.5
          
122.8
          
128.1
          
137.5
          
Sales Tax (including Measure S)
29.6
             
29.9
             
30.6
                 
31.2
             
31.8
             
32.4
             
33.1
             
33.7
             
34.4
             
35.1
             
35.8
             
36.5
             
37.2
             
Property Transfer Tax
7.4
               
7.0
               
8.0
                   
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
TOT
6.1
               
5.3
               
4.0
                   
4.1
               
4.2
               
4.2
               
4.3
               
4.4
               
4.5
               
4.6
               
4.7
               
4.8
               
4.9
               
Other Taxes
12.4
             
10.1
             
9.9
                   
10.1
             
10.2
             
10.4
             
10.6
             
10.7
             
10.9
             
11.1
             
11.3
             
11.5
             
11.7
             
Charges for Services, Fees and Othe
29.7
             
30.8
             
30.7
                 
31.5
             
32.4
             
33.3
             
34.3
             
35.3
             
36.3
             
37.3
             
38.4
             
39.5
             
40.6
             
General Fund Total Revenues
165.9
          
161.5
          
166.8
              
173.2
          
176.4
          
182.4
          
192.0
          
200.7
          
209.8
          
216.6
          
220.9
          
228.4
          
239.9
          
EXPENDITURES
Personnel Costs
67.7
             
68.7
             
75.3
                 
77.7
             
79.5
             
81.1
             
82.7
             
84.3
             
86.0
             
87.8
             
89.5
             
91.3
             
93.1
             
Non-Personnel Costs
34.8
             
37.7
             
39.9
                 
40.4
             
42.2
             
43.8
             
45.5
             
46.9
             
48.5
             
50.0
             
51.7
             
53.3
             
55.1
             
SMC Fire and Legacy Costs
32.8
             
34.3
             
36.1
                 
37.7
             
39.0
             
40.3
             
42.0
             
43.1
             
44.3
             
45.2
             
46.2
             
46.9
             
47.9
             
Pension Unfunded Liability
11.7
             
11.4
             
13.0
                 
13.3
             
14.3
             
15.0
             
16.5
             
17.0
             
17.3
             
16.8
             
16.7
             
15.8
             
15.5
             
Debt Service and Other Transfers
4.6
               
4.1
               
5.0
                   
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
Operating Expenses (Baseline)
151.6
          
156.3
          
169.3
              
172.2
          
178.0
          
183.2
          
189.7
          
194.4
          
199.2
          
202.8
          
207.1
          
210.4
          
214.6
          
Contribution to CIP
7.9
               
13.2
            
8.0
                   
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
General Fund Total Expenditures
159.5
          
169.5
          
177.3
              
179.4
          
185.3
          
190.5
          
196.9
          
201.7
          
206.4
          
210.1
          
214.3
          
217.6
          
221.8
          
Surplus / (Deficit)
6.4
(8.0)
(10.5)
(6.2)
(8.9)
(8.1)
(4.9)
(0.9)
3.4
6.5
6.6
10.8
18.1
General Fund - Beginning Fund Balance
111.5
117.9
109.9
99.4
93.2
84.4
76.3
71.4
70.4
73.8
80.3
86.9
97.7
General Fund - Ending Fund Balance
$117.9
$109.9
$99.4
$93.2
$84.4
$76.3
$71.4
$70.4
$73.8
$80.3
$86.9
$97.7
$115.8
Assumptions:
(1) Property assessed value annual growth will slow down in the next two years and rebound to 6% annual growth thereafter
(2) Property tax in-lieu of VLF (VLF):  Assuming the State will backfill 100% of the VLF shortfall (with 2-year gap).
4 of 6
206 of 302

--- page 207 ---
City of San Mateo
General Fund Ten-Year Forecast
Attachment 1
Scenario C - Pessimistic
Note: Directional estimates are provided solely to facilitate budget planning discussions
*Revenue Assumptions on Property Tax:
(1) Property assessed value (AV) annual growth will slow down in the next two years, then align with the long-term growth rate at 4% per year.
(2) Property tax in-lieu of VLF (VLF):  Assuming the State will refuse to pay local VLF shortfall.
$80.6 
$78.4 
$83.7 
$80.4 
$81.3 
$82.3 
$85.9 
$88.5 
$93.8 
$95.2 
$96.5 
$96.8 
$100.7 
-10
10
30
50
70
90
110
130
150
2022-23
 Actuals
2023-24
Mid-Year
Estimates
2024-25
Baseline
Budget
Est.
2025-26 2026-27 2027-28 2028-29 2029-30 2030-31 2031-32 2032-33 2033-34 2034-35
General Fund - Top 4 Tax Revenues
(in millions)
Property Tax*
Sales Tax (including Measure S)
Property Transfer Tax
TOT
0
50
100
150
200
250
2022-23
 Actuals
2023-24
Mid-Year
Estimates
2024-25
Baseline
Budget
Est.
2025-26
2026-27
2027-28
2028-29
2029-30
2030-31
2031-32
2032-33
2033-34
2034-35
General Fund Revenues vs. Expenses
(in millions)
Operating Expenses (Baseline)
Contribution to CIP
General Fund Total Revenues
$117.9 
$109.9 
$99.4 
$85.3 
$67.9 
$48.1 
$27.3 
$6.3 
($12.2)
($31.0)
($50.7)
($71.2)
($89.9)
-150
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
2022-23
 Actuals
2023-24
Mid-Year
Estimates
2024-25
Baseline
Budget
Est.
2025-26 2026-27 2027-28 2028-29 2029-30 2030-31 2031-32 2032-33 2033-34 2034-35
General Fund Balance Forecast
(in millions)
$8 
$12 
$16 
$11 
$14 
$9 
$7 
$5 
$6 
$5 
$7 
$5 
$3 
$-
$-
$12 
$13 
$14 
$15 
$16 
$16 
$17 
$18 
$18 
$19 
$20 
$21 
$21 
$22 
$23 
$24 
 $-
 $5
 $10
 $15
 $20
 $25
Millions
VLF Forecast
State Refuses to Backfill VLF Shortfall
VLF available
VLF shortall backfilled by State
VLF - Worst Scenario
VLF entitlement
5 of 6
207 of 302

--- page 208 ---
City of San Mateo
General Fund Ten-Year Forecast
Attachment 1
Scenario C - Pessimistic (continued)
Note: Directional estimates are provided solely to facilitate budget planning discussions
10-YEAR FORECAST
GENERAL FUND
2022-23
 Actuals
2023-24 
Mid-Year 
Estimates
2024-25 
Baseline
Budget Est.
2025-26 
2026-27 
2027-28 
2028-29 
2029-30 
2030-31 
2031-32 
2032-33 
2033-34 
2034-35 
REVENUES
Property Tax*
$80.6
$78.4
$83.7
$80.4
$81.3
$82.3
$85.9
$88.5
$93.8
$95.2
$96.5
$96.8
$100.7
Sales Tax (including Measure S)
29.6
             
29.9
             
30.6
                 
31.2
             
31.8
             
32.4
             
33.1
             
33.7
             
34.4
             
35.1
             
35.8
             
36.5
             
37.2
             
Property Transfer Tax
7.4
               
7.0
               
8.0
                   
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
8.0
               
TOT
6.1
               
5.3
               
4.0
                   
4.1
               
4.2
               
4.2
               
4.3
               
4.4
               
4.5
               
4.6
               
4.7
               
4.8
               
4.9
               
Other Taxes
12.4
             
10.1
             
9.9
                   
10.1
             
10.2
             
10.4
             
10.6
             
10.7
             
10.9
             
11.1
             
11.3
             
11.5
             
11.7
             
Charges for Services, Fees and Other
29.7
             
30.8
             
30.7
                 
31.5
             
32.4
             
33.3
             
34.3
             
35.3
             
36.3
             
37.3
             
38.4
             
39.5
             
40.6
             
General Fund Total Revenues
165.9
           
161.5
           
166.8
               
165.3
           
167.9
           
170.6
           
176.2
           
180.6
           
187.8
           
191.3
           
194.7
           
197.1
           
203.1
           
EXPENDITURES
Personnel Costs
67.7
             
68.7
             
75.3
                 
77.7
             
79.5
             
81.1
             
82.7
             
84.3
             
86.0
             
87.8
             
89.5
             
91.3
             
93.1
             
Non-Personnel Costs
34.8
             
37.7
             
39.9
                 
40.4
             
42.2
             
43.8
             
45.5
             
46.9
             
48.5
             
50.0
             
51.7
             
53.3
             
55.1
             
SMC Fire and Legacy Costs
32.8
             
34.3
             
36.1
                 
37.7
             
39.0
             
40.3
             
42.0
             
43.1
             
44.3
             
45.2
             
46.2
             
46.9
             
47.9
             
Pension Unfunded Liability
11.7
             
11.4
             
13.0
                 
13.3
             
14.3
             
15.0
             
16.5
             
17.0
             
17.3
             
16.8
             
16.7
             
15.8
             
15.5
             
Debt Service and Other Transfer Out
4.6
               
4.1
               
5.0
                   
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
Operating Expenses (Baseline)
151.6
           
156.3
           
169.3
               
172.2
           
178.0
           
183.2
           
189.7
           
194.4
           
199.2
           
202.8
           
207.1
           
210.4
           
214.6
           
Contribution to CIP
7.9
               
13.2
             
8.0
                   
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
7.3
               
General Fund Total Expenditures
159.5
           
169.5
           
177.3
               
179.4
           
185.3
           
190.5
           
196.9
           
201.7
           
206.4
           
210.1
           
214.3
           
217.6
           
221.8
           
Surplus / (Deficit)
6.4
(8.0)
(10.5)
(14.1)
(17.4)
(19.8)
(20.7)
(21.0)
(18.6)
(18.8)
(19.6)
(20.6)
(18.7)
General Fund - Beginning Fund Balance
111.5
117.9
109.9
99.4
85.3
67.9
48.1
27.3
6.3
(12.2)
(31.0)
(50.7)
(71.2)
General Fund - Ending Fund Balance
$117.9
$109.9
$99.4
$85.3
$67.9
$48.1
$27.3
$6.3
($12.2)
($31.0)
($50.7)
($71.2)
($89.9)
Assumptions:
(1) Property assessed value annual growth will slow donw in the next two years, then grow 4% annually.
(2) Property tax in-lieu of VLF (VLF):  Assuming the State refuse to pay local VLF shortfall.
6 of 6
208 of 302

--- page 209 ---
IMPORTANT NOTE: This slide presentation was prepared by the County Executive’s Office 
with input from the County Attorney’s Office.  The purpose of this slide presentation is to 
provide a conceptual overview of the VLF shortfall in San Mateo County.  Local school 
funding, Prop. 98, the administration of the local property tax system, and the calculation 
and funding of VLF are all complex processes based on detailed legal and fiscal frameworks, 
a comprehensive description and explanation of which are beyond the scope of this slide 
presentation.  All examples and figures have been simplified for explanatory purposes.  
Specific data on the distribution of local property taxes among taxing jurisdictions in San 
Mateo County can be reviewed in the annual Property Tax Highlights for San Mateo County, 
published by the San Mateo County Controller’s Office and available at 
https://www.smcgov.org/controller/property-tax-highlights. 
The explanatory text contained in this presentation describe the specific graphics and 
examples depicted in these slides.  The text and notes of the slides are not intended as 
independent explanations of concepts separate from the the specific graphics and slides to 
which they are attached and should not be cited or quoted as such.  
1
Overview of the Vehicle License Fee Shortfall 
in San Mateo County
Attachment 2
209 of 302

--- page 210 ---
• Under Prop. 13 and its implementing legislation, the 1% general tax levy is divided 
among all local taxing jurisdictions.
• On a countywide basis in San Mateo County, local school districts in FY22-23 were 
apportioned approximately 52% of the general levy, with the rest divided among the 
cities, special districts, County, and RDA successor agencies.  To simplify the discussion, 
this graphic shows a 50/50 split between school districts, on one hand, and cities, 
special districts, and the County, on the other.
2
•
County
•
Cities
•
Special Districts
School Districts 
1% General Levy 
Local Property Tax Apportionment
Attachment 2
210 of 302

--- page 211 ---
• Because the funding mechanism of VLF is intertwined with the manner of local school 
district funding, it’s important to start with an overview of how local K-12 school 
districts get funded. [Note: community college districts and county offices of education 
are subject to a similar funding framework, but the focus of this presentation is on K-12 
schools]. 
• Historically, school district funding was driven primarily by the amount of local property 
taxes apportioned to each local district, as represented by the blue bars of varying 
heights on this slide.
3
School District B
School District C
School District D
K-12 School District Funding 
School District A
Attachment 2
211 of 302

--- page 212 ---
•
In 1988, Prop. 98 obligated the State to guarantee that every district receives a 
minimum amount of per-student funding.  This minimum funding guarantee was 
previously known as the “revenue limit” but is now known as the Local Control Funding 
Formula or LCFF. 
•
When a local school district’s local property tax revenues are equal to or exceed the 
LCFF (represented by School District D in this graphic), it is known as a Basic Aid school 
district.  The State has no obligation to provide additional funding to this school district 
to meet its minimum funding guarantee other than the constitutionally required 
minimum funding, or “basic aid,” which is approximately $120/student.
4
LCFF (Local Control Funding Formula) 
Non-Basic Aid Districts 
Basic Aid Districts 
School District B
School District C
School District D
K-12 School District Funding 
School District A
Attachment 2
212 of 302

--- page 213 ---
•
School districts that do not receive sufficient local property tax revenue to meet the 
LCFF (represented by school districts A, B, and C in this graphic) are known as Non-Basic-
Aid Districts (non-BA districts).  For these districts, the State is obligated under Prop. 98 
to provide the additional funding needed by each district to fill the gap (represented by 
the red bracket in this graphic) between the minimum funding guarantee, or LCFF, and 
the amount of local property tax revenue received by each district.
5
LCFF (Local Control Funding Formula) 
Non-Basic Aid Districts 
Basic Aid Districts 
School District B
School District C
School District D
K-12 School District Funding 
School District A
Attachment 2
213 of 302

--- page 214 ---
• As part of efforts to address the State’s budget crisis in the early 1990s, the State created 
the Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund, or ERAF, as an additional source of local 
funding for school districts to help meet the State’s minimum funding obligation. 
• To understand how this funding mechanism works, we return to the graphic of the 
allocation of the 1% general tax levy among local jurisdictions.
6
•
County
•
Cities
•
Special Districts
School Districts 
1% General Levy 
ERAF (Education Revenue Augmentation Fund) 
Attachment 2
214 of 302

--- page 215 ---
• The ERAF framework involves a complex set of calculations and processes, but at a 
conceptual level, it shifts of a certain amount of local property taxes from the cities, 
County, and special districts, and makes those funds available to satisfy the State’s Prop. 
98 guarantee to fund non-BA districts up to their LCFF.
7
•
County
•
Cities
•
Special Districts
School Districts 
1% General Levy 
ERAF (Education Revenue Augmentation Fund) 
ERAF
Attachment 2
215 of 302

--- page 216 ---
• Let’s return to the graphic depicting school district funding prior to the creation of ERAF 
to show the impact of ERAF.  
• The State’s obligation to fill the gap between each non-BA district’s local property tax 
revenue and the minimum funding guarantee is represented by the red brackets.
8
LCFF (Local Control Funding Formula) 
Non-Basic Aid Districts 
Basic Aid Districts 
School District B
School District C
School District D
School District
K-12 School District Funding - ERAF 
School District A
Attachment 2
216 of 302

--- page 217 ---
• Under the ERAF framework, each non-BA school district now receives an ERAF 
entitlement, represented by the orange block.
• The State is still obligated under Prop. 98 to provide any additional funding needed for 
each non-BA district to meet the LCFF, but because of the ERAF allocation to non-BA 
school districts, the gap that the State must fill is now reduced (represented by School 
Districts A & B in this example) or even eliminated (School District C).
• While this graphic represents only a theoretical example of a mix of four school districts 
in a county, it approximates the funding landscape in the vast majority (~52) of counties 
in the State: while there may be some basic aid districts, most districts are non-BA, and 
even after ERAF is distributed to non-BA districts, the State must still provide additional 
funding to non-BA districts to fill them up to their LCFF.
• In San Mateo County, the ERAF entitlement is sufficient to fill each non-BA district to its 
LCFF. In other words, all school districts in San Mateo County as of 2023-24 fall into the 
situation generally represented by either School District C or D in this graphic.
9
LCFF (Local Control Funding Formula) 
Non-Basic Aid Districts 
Basic Aid Districts 
School District
School District
School District D
School District
K-12 School District Funding - ERAF 
School District A
School District C
School District B
ERAF
ERAF
ERAF
Attachment 2
217 of 302

--- page 218 ---
• Let’s return to the basic K-12 school funding model.  The school district funding 
environment is dynamic, and multiple factors may cause the gap between the amount of 
local property taxes received by a non-BA school district and the LCFF to shrink or even 
be eliminated, causing a non-BA district to “turn basic aid” (the reverse also occurs but is 
not the primary focus of this presentation).
• There are two key factors that contribute to a district turning basic aid.  
10
LCFF (Local Control 
Funding Formula) 
Non-Basic Aid Districts 
Basic Aid Districts 
School District
School District
School District D
Key Factors for a School District Turning Basic Aid
School District A
School District C
ERAF
ERAF
School District B
Attachment 2
218 of 302

--- page 219 ---
• First, a school district’s local property tax revenues might grow relatively faster than the 
LCFF.  This is depicted in this graphic by a relatively higher blue bar for School District C.
11
LCFF (Local Control 
Funding Formula) 
Non-Basic Aid Districts 
Basic Aid Districts 
School District
School District
School District D
Key Factors for a School District Turning Basic Aid
School District A
School District C
ERAF
ERAF
School District B
Attachment 2
219 of 302

--- page 220 ---
• Second, the minimum funding guarantee (calculated on a per-student basis) for a school 
district could become relatively lower, for example, due to lower enrollment caused by 
local demographic changes or disenrollment from the public school district. This would 
have the effect, as depicted here, of a lower LCFF for School District C.
12
LCFF (Local Control 
Funding Formula) 
Non-Basic Aid Districts 
Basic Aid Districts 
School District
School District
School District D
Key Factors for a School District Turning Basic Aid
School District A
School District C
ERAF
ERAF
School District B
Attachment 2
220 of 302

--- page 221 ---
• What is the result when these sorts of dynamics play out across all non-BA districts?
• School District C now receives sufficient local property tax revenues to exceed 
the LCFF.  It has now “turned basic aid,” and the State no longer has any 
obligation to provide additional funding to meet the minimum funding 
guarantee.
13
LCFF (Local Control 
Funding Formula) 
Non-Basic Aid Districts 
Basic Aid Districts 
School District
School District
School District D
Key Factors for a School District Turning Basic Aid
School District A
School District C
ERAF
ERAF
School District B
Attachment 2
221 of 302

--- page 222 ---
•
School District A is still non-BA, but with just its ERAF entitlement, it now has sufficient 
funding to meet its minimum funding guarantee. The State does not have to provide any 
additional funding to this district despite the fact that it is still non-BA.  [Note: this is the 
case for all non-BA districts in San Mateo County.]
•
School District B still requires additional State funding to meet its minimum funding 
guarantee, but the gap that the State must fill is reduced.
•
Because of the change in dynamics with School Districts A and C, the full ERAF entitlement is no 
longer needed to fund these districts to their LCFF. By law, after funding non-basic aid schools to 
their LCFF (as well as certain special education costs), the unneeded portion of ERAF (termed 
“excess ERAF” under the statute) must be returned to the contributing jurisdictions from which 
that revenue was originally shifted.  In other words, that portion of ERAF must be returned to 
the cities, special districts, and County.  For this reason, locally we call this “Returned ERAF”.
•
Note: ERAF is returned to the contributing taxing agencies only after all school districts are 
funded to at least their LCFF amount.  School districts that meet their LCFF level through their 
own property tax apportionment (i.e., basic aid districts) cannot receive ERAF by law, and those 
funds must be returned to the contributing agencies.
14
LCFF (Local Control 
Funding Formula) 
Non-Basic Aid Districts 
Basic Aid Districts 
School District
School District
School District D
Key Factors for a School District Turning Basic Aid
School District A
School District C
ERAF
ERAF
ERAF
School District B
ERAF
Attachment 2
222 of 302

--- page 223 ---
• The VLF (annual amount paid to register a vehicle in California) has been a long-standing 
traditional source of funding for local government.  As a key component of local 
jurisdictions’ general fund budgets, it funds core local services including public safety, 
health, housing, and other critical local services.
• The 2004 State budget compromise involved a complex set of measures and tradeoffs 
both at the State and local levels needed to address the State budget deficit, the full 
scope of which is beyond the focus of this presentation.  Significantly, the 2004 budget 
compromise included the VLF swap statute, which fundamentally revised the VLF 
framework.  
• Key components for our purposes:
• The statute de-coupled the VLF revenues for local jurisdictions from the actual 
amounts received by the State for vehicle registration. 
• The funding obligation to local governments became known as the “in-lieu” VLF 
payment.  It is payable to local jurisdictions from the property tax and ERAF 
entitlements of non-BA school districts (who are in turn, backfilled by the State). 
This statutory funding mechanism is described in the next slides.
• The statute expressly provides that the VLF swap shall not reduce Returned 
(Excess) ERAF.
• The growth of the in-lieu VLF payment was tied to the growth rate of local 
assessed values.
15
School District
In-Lieu Vehicle License Fee (VLF)
• Part of budget compromise of 2004
• Created State’s In-lieu VLF payment obligation to counties 
and cities (VLF no longer tied to vehicle registration 
collected by State)
• VLF growth tied to local assessed value growth
Attachment 2
223 of 302

--- page 224 ---
• This graphic depicts how the State meets its in-lieu VLF funding obligation through the 
funding for local school districts.
• We start with the basic model of K-12 local school funding, where non-BA districts 
receive their property tax apportionments, ERAF entitlements, and the State additional 
funding to meet their LCFF.
16
LCFF (Local Control Funding Formula) 
Non-Basic Aid Districts 
Basic Aid Districts 
School District
School District
School District D
School District
In-Lieu VLF Funding Sources 
School District A
School District C
School District B
ERAF
ERAF
ERAF
ERAF
Attachment 2
224 of 302

--- page 225 ---
•
Under the VLF statute, the local auditor-controller, who administers the local property 
tax system, uses the property taxes and ERAF entitlements that would otherwise go to 
non-BA districts to pay the State’s in-lieu VLF obligation to the cities and county (green 
bracket in this graphic).
17
LCFF (Local Control Funding Formula) 
Non-Basic Aid Districts 
Basic Aid Districts 
School District
School District
School District D
School District
In-Lieu VLF Funding Sources 
School District A
School District C
School District B
ERAF
ERAF
ERAF
ERAF
VLF In-Lieu
VLF In-Lieu
VLF In-Lieu
Attachment 2
225 of 302

--- page 226 ---
• The State then backfills those districts dollar-for-dollar up to their LCFF (red brackets). 
• NOTE: the non-BA school districts are held harmless in this process. Both before and 
after the VLF swap statute, those districts receive their full LCFF amount as guaranteed 
by the State under Prop. 98.  They receive their minimum per-student funding guarantee 
in both scenarios.
• Further NOTE: Even though the VLF framework calls for the State’s In-lieu VLF funding 
obligation to be paid in the first instance from non-BA districts’ ERAF and property taxes, 
the State still effectively pays the full in-lieu VLF amount to cities and counties because 
the State backfills the non-BA schools for every dollar of their property taxes and ERAF 
that is used to pay the in-lieu VLF obligation.
18
LCFF (Local Control Funding Formula) 
Non-Basic Aid Districts 
Basic Aid Districts 
School District
School District
School District D
School District
In-Lieu VLF Funding Sources 
School District A
School District C
School District B
ERAF
ERAF
ERAF
ERAF
VLF In-Lieu
VLF In-Lieu
VLF In-Lieu
Attachment 2
226 of 302

--- page 227 ---
• In San Mateo County and 2 other counties, there is a shortfall created when the 
available funding sources in the VLF swap statute are insufficient to fully cover the 
State’s in-lieu VLF payment obligation to cities and counties. This is due in part to the 
phenomenon of districts turning basic aid.  Two examples will demonstrate conceptually 
how this works. 
• In example 1, the in-lieu VLF obligation of $110M is paid through the property taxes and 
ERAF of non-BA districts (A, B, and C), which are more than sufficient to satisfy the 
obligation.
19
Non-Basic Aid Districts 
Basic Aid Districts 
School District
School District
School District D
School District
Vehicle License Fee Shortfall
School District A
School District C
School District B
ERAF
ERAF
ERAF
ERAF
School District C
40
10
30
10
20
10
VLF Funding Example 1: 
VLF Obligation – $110M
Available Sources -$120M 
Attachment 2
227 of 302

--- page 228 ---
• In example 2, School District C has turned basic aid through the dynamics described 
earlier in this presentation. 
20
Non-Basic Aid Districts 
Basic Aid Districts 
School District
School District
School District D
Vehicle License Fee Shortfall
School District A
School District C
School District B
ERAF
ERAF
ERAF
ERAF
School District C
Attachment 2
228 of 302

--- page 229 ---
• Now, because School District C’s property taxes and ERAF are no longer available to fund 
the VLF obligation, in example 2 there is only $70M in available sources under the VLF 
framework, resulting in a $40M shortfall.
• NOTE: While VLF and excess ERAF are two distinct sources of revenue to which counties 
and cities are entitled, both are impacted by a school district turning basic aid.  However, 
as this graphic shows, the loss in available revenue sources to fund the VLF obligation 
caused by a district turning basic aid (in this example, $50M) is greater than any impact 
on excess ERAF (here, $10M). 
21
Non-Basic Aid Districts 
Basic Aid Districts 
School District
School District D
Vehicle License Fee Shortfall
School District A
School District C
School District B
ERAF
ERAF
ERAF
School District C
VLF In-Lieu
VLF In-Lieu
School District C
School District C
ERAF
40
10
30
10
20
10
VLF Funding Example 2:
VLF Obligation - $110M
Available Sources - $70M
Shortfall: $40M
Attachment 2
229 of 302

--- page 230 ---
22
What Happens When There Is a VLF Shortfall?
• The VLF Swap Statute does not specify how the State funds its in-lieu VLF obligation when the 
specified funding sources are insufficient to fully satisfy amounts owed to the cities and county.
• If there is a shortfall, the county auditor controller files a claim with the State/DOF requesting payment 
to county and cities
• Statewide, only 3 counties (and cities within) experience VLF shortfalls: San Mateo, Alpine and Mono
• All other 55 counties (and cities within) receive their full annual VLF revenue amounts from the State through the 
funding mechanism specified in the VLF Swap Statute
• Historically, the State has always made counties and cities whole by reimbursing any in-lieu VLF 
shortfalls through a special appropriation in the State budget.
• In years when the State has failed to include VLF shortfall amounts in the proposed budget, the 
counties and cities have relied on their state delegations to advocate for the inclusion of the 
reimbursement in the enacted State budget. 
Attachment 2
230 of 302

--- page 231 ---
General Fund 
2024-25 
Budget Preview & 
Ten-Year Forecast
April 15, 2024
1
231 of 302

--- page 232 ---
Agenda
• General Fund 
• Challenges
• 2024-25 Budget Preview
• 10-Year Forecast
• Budget Strategies and Planning
• Questions and Feedback
2
232 of 302

--- page 233 ---
Background
January 2024
February 2024
April 2024
June 2024
Budget 
Kickoff
February 20
2023-24 Mid-Year 
Updates
April 15
2024-29 CIP 
Preview
2024-25 Budget 
Preview
June 3
Proposed Budget
Public Hearing
June 17
Budget Adoption 
Public Hearing
Budget Process
3
233 of 302

--- page 234 ---
General Fund Challenges
4
• Costs of providing essential city services
• Fund long-term, legally-obligated 
liabilities
• Maintain and repair city facilities 
• Provide for infrastructure needs
Costs to 
Provide City 
Services
Long-Term 
Obligations
City Facilities 
& 
Infrastructure
Revenues
234 of 302

--- page 235 ---
General Fund Challenges
VLF 
Shortfall
a major threat to 
the city’s fiscal 
stability
High 
Interest 
Rates 
negative impact 
on tax revenues
Two Major Uncertainties
5
235 of 302

--- page 236 ---
General Fund Budget Preview FY 24-25
6
General Fund FY 2024-25 
Revenues Estimates
$166.8 million
236 of 302

--- page 237 ---
General Fund Budget Preview FY 24-25
General Fund FY 2024-25 
Expenditure Estimates
$177.3 million
Personnel 
Costs*
 120.5 
68%
Non-
Personnel 
Costs
 43.8 
25%
Debt 
Service and 
Other 
Transfers
 5.0 
3%
Contribution 
to CIP
 8.0 
4%
*Personnel Costs included 
the City’s share of SMC 
Fire personnel costs and 
legacy costs.
(shown in millions)
7
237 of 302

--- page 238 ---
2024-25 Budget Highlights
Revenues:
• Property Tax:  annual growth slows down to 3%
• VLF:  Assuming the State will backfill the FY 22-23 VLF shortfall of $4.2 million 
• TOT – baseline $4 million (dropped from $7 million baseline) 
Expenditures:
• High inflation put pressure on operating expenses
• Pension Cost will rise starting in FY 2024-25 – additional $2 million 
• Contribution to CIP:  $7.25 million
8
238 of 302

--- page 239 ---
General Fund Budget Preview FY 24-25
Account Type
2023-24 
Mid-Year 
Projection
2024-25
Baseline Budget 
Estimates
Changes in $
Total Revenues
$161.5
$166.8
$5.3
Total Expenditures
169.5
177.3
7.8
Deficit
($8.0)
($10.5)
($2.5)
*shown in millions
9
239 of 302

--- page 240 ---
General Fund Balance
*shown in millions
GENERAL FUND
2023-24 
MID-YEAR
 PROJECTION
2024-25 BASELINE 
BUDGET 
ESTIMATES
Up (Down) $
Total Revenues
161.5
$               
166.8
$               
5.3
$            
Total Expenditures
169.5
                 
177.3
                 
7.8
              
Surplus / (Deficit)
(8.0)
$                 
(10.5)
$               
(2.5)
$           
Beginning Fund Balance
117.9
                 
109.9
                 
(8.0)
             
Ending Fund Balance
109.9
$               
99.4
$                 
(10.5)
$         
10
240 of 302

--- page 241 ---
General Fund Balance
*shown in millions
GENERAL FUND
2023-24 
MID-YEAR
 PROJECTION
2024-25 BASELINE 
BUDGET 
ESTIMATES
Up (Down) $
25% Operating Reserve
39.4
$                 
41.7
$                 
2.4
$            
Housing Reserve
5.9
                     
7.0
                     
1.1
              
Committed to CIP
8.3
                     
8.0
                     
(0.3)
             
Rainy Day Reserve
56.3
                   
42.7
                   
(13.6)
           
Ending Fund Balance
109.9
$               
99.4
$                 
(10.5)
$         
11
241 of 302

--- page 242 ---
General Fund 10-Year Forecast
3 Scenarios
• Optimistic
• Pessimistic
• Middle-Ground
12
242 of 302

--- page 243 ---
General Fund 10-Year Forecast
Expenditure Assumptions:
• Personnel Costs
• Salaries and Wages – increase with general alignment of historical CPI
• Medical Costs – an annual growth rate of 6.5% 
• Pension Costs – based on CalPERS valuation data
• Non-Personnel Costs – 4% compounded annual growth rate was used for FY 
2024-25 and 2025-26, then 3% for the out years in the forecast 
• Transfer Out – $7.25 million of baseline annual contribution to CIP, and 
required debt service
13
243 of 302

--- page 244 ---
General Fund 10-Year Forecast
Expenditures
*shown in millions.  Personnel Costs included the City’s share of SMC Fire personnel costs and legacy costs.
159.5 
169.5 
177.3 
179.4 
185.3 
190.5 
196.9 
201.7 
206.4 
210.1 
214.3 
217.6 
221.8 
 -
 50.0
 100.0
 150.0
 200.0
 250.0
2022-23
 Actuals
2023-24
Mid-Year
Estimates
2024-25
Baseline
Budget Est.
2025-26
2026-27
2027-28
2028-29
2029-30
2030-31
2031-32
2032-33
2033-34
2034-35
General Fund Expenditures
Personnel Costs*
Non-Personnel Costs
Debt Service and Other Transfers
Contribution to CIP
General Fund Total Expenditures
68% 
Personnel 
Costs
27% Non-
Personnel 
Costs
14
244 of 302

--- page 245 ---
General Fund 10-Year Forecast
Contributions to CIP
7.9 
13.2 
2024-25 
Baseline
Budget Est., 8.0 
 -
 2.0
 4.0
 6.0
 8.0
 10.0
 12.0
 14.0
2022-23
 Actuals
2023-24
Mid-Year
Estimates
2024-25
Baseline
Budget Est.
2025-26
2026-27
2027-28
2028-29
2029-30
2030-31
2031-32
2032-33
2033-34
2034-35
Annual Contribution to CIP 
*shown in millions.  
Actuals
Mid-Year Est.
Forecast
$7.25 million baseline
15
245 of 302

--- page 246 ---
General Fund 10-Year Forecast
Pension Costs
2023-24, $17.3
2030-31, $26.1
$0
$5
$10
$15
$20
$25
$30
General Fund Forecast
Pension Costs (in millions)
Normal Cost
UAL Payment, including Fire Legacy Costs
16
246 of 302

--- page 247 ---
General Fund 10-Year Forecast
17
Revenue Assumptions:
• Sales Tax stays relatively flat with moderate 1-2% increase
• TOT – baseline $4 million (dropped from $7 million baseline) 
• Property Transfer Tax – baseline $8 million
• Fees and Other Revenues – moderate growth
247 of 302

--- page 248 ---
General Fund 10-Year Forecast
Sales Tax
2024-25 Budget 
Estimates, $30.6 
$0
$5
$10
$15
$20
$25
$30
$35
$40
Sales Tax (in million)
Actuals
Mid-Year Est.
Forecast
Note: including ¼ transaction tax for Measure S
18
248 of 302

--- page 249 ---
General Fund 10-Year Forecast
Transient Occupancy Tax
2024-25 Budget 
Estimates, $4
$0
$1
$2
$3
$4
$5
$6
$7
$8
Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) 
(in millions)
Actuals
Mid-Year Est.
Forecast
19
249 of 302

--- page 250 ---
General Fund 10-Year Forecast
Real Property Transfer Tax
2024-25 Budget 
Estimates, $8
$0
$2
$4
$6
$8
$10
$12
$14
$16
Real Property Transfer Tax (RPTT) 
(in millions)
Actuals
Mid-Year Est.
Forecast
$8 million baseline
20
250 of 302

--- page 251 ---
General Fund 10-Year Forecast
21
Revenue Assumptions:
Property Tax – depending on the outcome of the two major uncertainties:
Property Tax:
Optimistic Scenario
Pessimistic Scenario
Middle Ground Scenario
VLF Shortfalls
100% State Backfilled 
(2-year gap)
State refuses to backfill
Reduced-levels
Housing Market
Strong growth @ 6%
3%-4% growth
4% growth
251 of 302

--- page 252 ---
Property Tax in-lieu of VLF (VLF)
$12 
$13 
$14 
$15 
$16 
$16 
$17 
$18 
$18 
$19 
$20 
$21 
$21 
$22 
$23 
$24 
 $-
 $5
 $10
 $15
 $20
 $25
Millions
VLF Entitlement
VLF available
VLF shortfall
VLF entitlement
22
252 of 302

--- page 253 ---
Property Tax in-lieu of VLF (VLF)
$12 
$8 
$12 
$16 
$11 
$14 
$16 
$13 
$13 
$16 
$18 
$20 
$20 
$16 
$16 
$19 
 $-
 $5
 $10
 $15
 $20
 $25
Millions
VLF Shortfall 100% Backfilled by State (with 2-Year Gap)
VLF available
VLF shortall backfilled by State
VLF - Best Scenario
VLF entitlement
23
253 of 302

--- page 254 ---
Property Tax in-lieu of VLF (VLF)
24
$8 
$12 
$16 
$11 
$14 
$9 
$7 
$5 
$6 
$5 
$7 
$5 
$3 
$-   
$-   
$12 
$13 
$14 
$15 
$16 
$16 
$17 
$18 
$18 
$19 
$20 
$21 
$21 
$22 
$23 
$24 
 $-
 $5
 $10
 $15
 $20
 $25
Millions
State Refuses to Backfill VLF Shortfall
VLF available
VLF shortall backfilled by State
VLF - Worst Scenario
VLF entitlement
VLF Revenues
$118 million
254 of 302

--- page 255 ---
Property Tax in-lieu of VLF (VLF)
 $-
 $5
 $10
 $15
 $20
 $25
Millions
Middle-Ground Scenario: Reduced Revenue
VLF available
VLF shortall backfilled by State
VLF Middle-Ground Scenario
VLF entitlement
25
255 of 302

--- page 256 ---
Housing Market – Mortgage Rates
6.88%
26
256 of 302

--- page 257 ---
Housing Market – Single Family Residences
 $-
 $0.5
 $1.0
 $1.5
 $2.0
 $2.5
0
50
100
150
200
250
Millions
Median Sales Price
Inventory
Sold
Average Days on Market
27
257 of 302

--- page 258 ---
General Fund 10-Year Forecast
Optimistic Scenario
0
50
100
150
200
250
2022-23
 Actuals
2023-24
Mid-Year
Estimates
2024-25
Baseline
Budget
Est.
2025-26 2026-27 2027-28 2028-29 2029-30 2030-31 2031-32 2032-33 2033-34 2034-35
General Fund Revenues vs. Expenses
(in million)
Operating Expenses (Baseline)
Contribution to CIP
General Fund Total Revenues
$117.9 
$109.9 
$99.4 
$93.2 
$84.4 
$76.3 
$71.4 
$70.4 
$73.8 
$80.3 
$86.9 
$97.7 
$115.8 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
2022-23
 Actuals
2023-24
Mid-Year
Estimates
2024-25
Baseline
Budget
Est.
2025-26 2026-27 2027-28 2028-29 2029-30 2030-31 2031-32 2032-33 2033-34 2034-35
General Fund Balance Forecast 
(in millions)
General Fund - Ending Fund Balance
25% Operating Reserve
• VLF Shortfall 100% Backfilled by the State of California (with 2-year gap)
• Strong Housing Market – Averaging 6% AV Annual Growth
28
258 of 302

--- page 259 ---
General Fund 10-Year Forecast
Pessimistic Scenario
• State refuses to fund its VLF obligation
• Slowdown in Housing Market – Averaging 3%-4% AV Annual Growth
0
50
100
150
200
250
2022-23
 Actuals
2023-24
Mid-Year
Estimates
2024-25
Baseline
Budget Est.
2025-26
2026-27
2027-28
2028-29
2029-30
2030-31
2031-32
2032-33
2033-34
2034-35
General Fund Revenues vs. Expenses
(in millions)
Operating Expenses (Baseline)
Contribution to CIP
General Fund Total Revenues
$117.9 
$109.9 
$99.4 
$85.3 
$67.9 
$48.1 
$27.3 
$6.3 
($12.2)
($31.0)
($50.7)
($71.2)
($89.9)
-150
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
2022-23
 Actuals
2023-24
Mid-Year
Estimates
2024-25
Baseline
Budget
Est.
2025-26
2026-27
2027-28
2028-29
2029-30
2030-31
2031-32
2032-33
2033-34
2034-35
General Fund Balance Forecast
(in millions)
29
259 of 302

--- page 260 ---
General Fund 10-Year Forecast
Middle Ground Scenario
0
50
100
150
200
250
2022-23
 Actuals
2023-24
Mid-Year
Estimates
2024-25
Baseline
Budget Est.
2025-26
2026-27
2027-28
2028-29
2029-30
2030-31
2031-32
2032-33
2033-34
2034-35
General Fund Revenues vs. Expenses 
(in millions)
Operating Expenses (Baseline)
Contribution to CIP
Total Revenues
• State backfills some VLF revenues, but at reduced levels
• Housing Market – Averaging 4% AV Annual Growth
$117.9 
$109.9 
$99.4 
$90.4 
$80.5 
$70.8 
$60.1 
$50.4 
$41.7 
$35.5 
$31.2 
$30.2 
$31.7 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
2022-23
 Actuals
2023-24
Mid-Year
Estimates
2024-25
Baseline
Budget
Est.
2025-26
2026-27
2027-28
2028-29
2029-30
2030-31
2031-32
2032-33
2033-34
2034-35
General Fund Balance Forecast
(in millions)
General Fund - Ending Fund Balance
25% Operating Reserve
30
260 of 302

--- page 261 ---
Budget Strategies and Planning
• Assumes continued weakness in General Fund revenues until 
• Interest rates decrease and housing market rebounds
• VLF shortfall funding issue is resolved
• Short-term
• Reliance on Rainy Day Reserve
• Long-term
• Address the funding needs for operational and CIP needs
31
261 of 302

--- page 262 ---
Budget Strategies and Planning
• Measurable Actions 
• Cost Recovery
• Use special and restricted funding first
• Grant funding opportunities
• Potential Revenue Measure
• Citywide Financial Sustainability Plan
• Develop a Comprehensive Reserve Policy
32
262 of 302

--- page 263 ---
Council Feedback & Direction
Approach for General Fund Long-Range Planning 
•
Optimistic
•
Pessimistic
•
Middle-Ground (staff recommended)
33
263 of 302

--- page 264 ---
Q&A
Karen Huang
Finance Director
khuang@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7110
34
264 of 302

--- page 265 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  14
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 24-8609
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
April 15, 2024 
SUBJECT:
City Manager, City Attorney, Department Head and Deputy Director Compensation Plan – Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Compensation Plan to: 1) add Juneteenth, June 19th as an annual holiday; 2) increase the 
salary range for the Police Chief classification; and 3) increase the salary range for the Human Resources Director 
classification.
BACKGROUND:
Juneteenth, June 19th
On February 22, 2024, Juneteenth was recognized by City Council as an annual Citywide holiday beginning this year. The 
proposed resolution (Attachment 1) recommends updating the City Manager, City Attorney, Department Head and Deputy 
Director Compensation Plan to include Juneteenth, June 19th, as an additional holiday.
Police Chief and Human Resources Director Salary Increases
The City Council determines the salary and benefits compensation for employees. The directors and deputy directors are 
not represented by a bargaining group, and their salary ranges are determined by the City Council. The department heads 
are at-will employees and serve at the pleasure of the City Manager. In February 2024, HR retained the services of Bryce 
Consulting to conduct a total compensation study of the director and deputy director classifications utilizing the market 
survey agencies listed in the City’s Management Association Memorandum of Understanding to set the top salary range. 
Byrce Consulting determined that other department head and deputy director classifications in the City are also 
behind market/below median. Staff anticipates bringing those  department head and deputy director compensation 
adjustment recommendations to the Council this fall, commensurate with the completion and outcome of 
negotiations with multiple labor groups.
The Police Chief classification last received an increase to its salary range on March 5, 2023. The compensation study 
showed the Police Chief salary range is 11.9% below market median. A review of the top salary steps between the Police 
Chief and the highest-level subordinate Police Captain, which belongs to the Management Safety bargaining group, shows 
a salary difference of 18%. With the upcoming 3% salary increase for Management Safety employees on June 23, 2024, the 
salary difference between the Police Chief and the Police Captain will be 15%. Based on the total compensation survey 
data and the salary compaction analysis, the proposed resolution recommends a twelve percent (12.0%) salary range 
increase for the Police Chief classification effective April 28, 2024. This salary range would be approximately 4.2% below 
the current salary for the City Manager, and 26.2% above the salary range of the highest-level subordinate, Police Captain.
The Human Resources Director classification last received an increase to its salary range on March 5, 2023. The 
compensation study showed the Human Resources Director salary range is 3.2% below market median. The recent 
executive search was unsuccessful as it did not result in a hire. Based on the total compensation survey and consistent 
265 of 302

--- page 266 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
with the City’s compensation philosophy to pay competitive salaries in order to attract and retain highly qualified 
employees, the proposed resolution recommends a three and a half percent (3.5%) salary range increase for the Human 
Resources Director classification effective April 28, 2024.
Pursuant to City Charter Section 4.02, the City Council provides for the compensation of all officers and employees and 
salaries shall be fixed by resolution. Title 2 of the California Code of Regulations (CCR), Section 570.5, requires the City 
Council to adopt a full salary schedule, as a standalone document detailing the rates of pay for each City classification, and 
to maintain this salary schedule as a publicly available document for at least five years. CalPERS uses this salary schedule to 
determine the “compensation earnable” when calculating the monthly pension an individual will receive when they retire. 
“Compensation earnable” is defined by the Public Employees’ Retirement Law (PERL) Government Code Sections 20636, 
and 20636.1 as pay rate and special compensation as defined in the statutes. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with the approval of Juneteenth, June 19th, as an additional holiday. Approval of the 
Police Chief’s salary increase will cost an estimated $8,300 in fiscal year 2023-24, which can be absorbed within the 
department’s operating budget. Beginning in fiscal year 2024-25, this salary increase will be built into the Police 
Department’s personnel budget.  Approval of the Human Resources Director’s salary increase will have no budget impact 
in fiscal year 2023-24. Beginning in fiscal year 2024-25, this salary will be built into the Human Resources Department’s 
personnel budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
            Exhibit A - City Manager, City Attorney, Department Head, Deputy Director Compensation Plan 
Att 2 - Track Changes Exhibit A - City Manager, City Attorney, Department Head, Deputy Director Compensation Plan
STAFF CONTACT
Shawnna Maltbie, Interim Director of Human Resources
smaltbie@cityofsanmateo.org
650.522.7276
266 of 302

--- page 267 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ___ (2024)
APPROVING AMENDMENTS TO THE DEPARTMENT HEAD 
AND DEPUTY DIRECTOR COMPENSATION PLAN
WHEREAS, the Department Heads are not represented by a bargaining group, and compensation is 
determined by the City Council; and,
WHEREAS, executive positions consist of the at-will heads of city departments who serve at the pleasure 
of the City Manager; and,
WHEREAS, a consolidated compensation plan specific to the Department Heads and Deputy Directors 
has been set forth in a resolution; and,
WHEREAS, the City Council recognizes Juneteenth, June 19th, as a Citywide holiday beginning this year; 
and,
WHEREAS, the addition of Juneteenth, June 19th, to the compensation plan will have not have a budget 
impact; and,
WHEREAS, the total compensation survey and compaction analysis recommends a twelve (12.0%) 
increase to the Police Chief salary range effective April 28, 2024; and,  
WHEREAS, the resolution results in an estimated $8,300 in fiscal year 2023-24; and,
WHEREAS, for Fiscal Year 2024-25, this salary increase will be built into the Police Department’s 
personnel budget; and,
WHEREAS, the total compensation survey and the City’s compensation philosophy to pay competitive 
salaries for recruitment and retention purposes recommends a three and a half percent (3.5%) increase to the 
Human Resources Director salary range effective April 28, 2024; and,  
WHEREAS, the resolution results in no budget impact in fiscal year 2023-24; and,
WHEREAS, for Fiscal Year 2024-25, this salary increase will be built into the Human Resources 
Department’s personnel budget.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This City Council action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity 
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially 
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).
2.
The addition of Juneteenth, June 19th, to the Consolidated City Manager, City Attorney, Department 
Head and Deputy Director Compensation Plan, as a City holiday, is approved.
3.
The amendments to the Consolidated City Manager, City Attorney, Department Head and Deputy 
267 of 302

--- page 268 ---
Director Compensation Plan, for the Police Chief and Human Resources Director classifications, are 
approved as follows:
Salary Increases effective April 28, 2024:
12.0% increase for Police Chief
3.5% increase for Human Resources Director
4.
The Consolidated City Manager, City Attorney, Department Head and Deputy Director 
Compensation Plan, including the salaries set forth in Exhibit A Attachment 1 attached hereto are 
approved.
268 of 302

--- page 269 ---
EXHIBIT A
CONSOLIDATED CITY MANAGER, CITY ATTORNEY, DEPARTMENT HEAD AND DEPUTY DIRECTOR 
COMPENSATION PLAN
SALARY
Successful employee performance is a key factor in determining compensation.
Salaries have been established for the City Manager and the City Attorney.  The current amounts are 
listed in Attachment 1.
A three-step salary range has been established for each Department Head and Deputy Director 
classification.  The proposed salary ranges for the Police Chief classification with a twelve percent 
(12.0%) increase, and the Human Resources Director classification with a three and a half percent (3.5%) 
increase are listed in Attachment 1. Salary placement is based upon performance review and 
experience.
The City Manager is authorized to offer unrepresented management employees or potential 
unrepresented management employees, on a case by case basis, additional fringe benefits incentives, 
not to exceed 10% of the position’s base salary.  
TEMPORARY UPGRADE PAY
In the event the City Manager determines that it is necessary to assign a Department Head or Deputy 
Director to perform all of the duties of a higher paid classification for two or more consecutive 
workweeks, he/she shall receive payment for the higher classification for the entire duration of the 
assignment.  The City Manager shall set the salary within the established salary range.  Except with the 
approval of the City Manager, a temporary upgrade assignment shall not continue for longer than one 
year. 
When an employee performs a significant portion but not all of the duties of a higher paid classification, 
the employee may petition the City Manager for a differential in pay of up to 10%, to be determined by 
duties assigned for this work out of class.
EMERGENCY WORK
In the event a City Council declared emergency necessitates the devotion of excessive working time by 
certain management employees in order to maintain essential public services, the City Manager may 
authorize overtime on a case-by-case basis.  Such authorization shall terminate upon cessation of the 
City Council declared emergency. 
PERSONAL TRAINING
Department Heads and Deputy Directors are encouraged to attend instructional programs, conferences 
and seminars as available in the department’s budget.  If the cost to attend exceeds $2,000, attendance 
must be pre-approved by the City Manager.   
LEAVE ACCRUALS
Employees shall accrue vacation leave, sick leave and holiday leave on a pro-rata basis in proportion to 
regular hours on the payroll.  Credit shall not be received for time off without pay. Vacation leave, sick 
leave, and holiday credits shall accrue from date of appointment.
269 of 302

--- page 270 ---
Absences of less than four hours shall not be deducted from leave balances. Employees are expected to 
work a minimum of 40 hours per week, with schedules that may vary from day to day based on 
workplace needs.
HOLIDAYS
The holidays to be observed are as follows:
A.
New Year's Day, January 1st
B.
Martin Luther King's Birthday, 3rd Monday in January
C.
President's Day, 3rd Monday in February
D.
Memorial Day, last Monday in May
E.
Juneteenth, June 19th
F.
Independence Day, July 4th
G.
Labor Day, 1st Monday in September
H.
Veteran's Day, November 11
I.
Thanksgiving Day, 4th Thursday in November
J.
The day after Thanksgiving
K.
Christmas Day, December 25th
L.
Every day approved by the City Council as a public holiday, public fast, or a day of mourning
M.
Three (3) floating holidays to be taken on working days mutually agreeable to the employee and 
the department.  Employees shall accrue twelve (12) hours of floating holiday time during the 
first full pay period in January and July each year.
If a holiday falls on Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed.  If a holiday falls on Saturday, the 
preceding Friday shall be observed as the holiday.  If a holiday falls on one’s regularly scheduled day off, 
holiday time shall be granted. 
In the event holidays fall while an employee is on vacation leave, such holidays shall not be charged as 
vacation leave.
Employees have a forty (40) hour maximum holiday accumulation.   
Realizing that not all Safety Department Heads and Safety Deputy Directors are able to take holidays 
when they fall, as determined by the City Manager, such managers shall be compensated by being 
placed on a bi-weekly holiday factor.   Holiday leave shall never accumulate to more than eighty (80) 
hours.  Effective with the pay period starting December 29, 2019, such managers shall be compensated 
by receiving holiday-in-lieu pay at the rate of 5.0% of base pay each pay period.
VACATION
Vacations are essential to the employee's welfare and they are granted by the City to allow employees 
relaxation and rest from their duties.  It is the policy of the City not to allow the excess accumulation of 
vacation leave.  All full-time employees shall be entitled to vacation leave with pay as provided below 
after completion of continuous service with the City.  The time at which an employee may take vacation 
shall take into consideration the needs of the City. 
Employees shall accrue a vacation allowance at the rate of 20 days per year for the first 12 years of 
service, 22.5 days per year for 13 through 23 years of service, and 25 days per year at the beginning of 
24 years of service.  The above allowances shall be pro-rated for employees beginning employment or 
leaving employment with the City during a biweekly pay period.   
270 of 302

--- page 271 ---
The City Manager is authorized to provide at-will department heads with vacation accrual based upon 
the number of years of prior service with public entity employers.   The City Manager and City Attorney 
are provided with this benefit.  
The City Manager can provide new Department Heads and Deputy Directors with a balance of up to 80 
hours of vacation leave upon hire. The City Manager and City Attorney are provided with this benefit. 
Department Heads and Deputy Directors may not accrue more than two times (2x) their vacation leave.  
Employees who leave employment shall be paid the straight-time salary equivalent in a lump sum for all 
accrued vacation leave earned.  Such compensation for prorated vacation of separated employees shall 
be paid by adding or deducting from his or her final paycheck.
VACATION SELL BACK
An employee may make an irrevocable election to sell back to the City eighty (80) hours of accumulated 
vacation at the employee’s established rate of pay per calendar year. At the time of election, the 
employee must already have taken a minimum of two (2) weeks’ vacation in the preceding twelve (12) 
months.
Requests must be received by Payroll no later than December 31 for the following year elections. No 
employee can elect to sell back more than their annual vacation accrual. Elected hours not requested for 
distribution (sell back) by December 1 will be automatically distributed in the next pay period (sell back 
cannot be more than the hours available at time of distribution).
EXECUTIVE LEAVE
Department Heads and Deputy Directors shall accrue forty-eight (48) hours per year of executive leave, 
on a pay period basis.   Executive leave shall have a maximum balance of eighty (80) hours.  Department 
Heads and Deputy Directors may sell back up to forty (40) hours per calendar year, following the 
procedures outlined in ‘VACATION SELL BACK’. 
A Department Head may recommend to the City Manager that an additional amount of executive leave 
be authorized for a Deputy Director, up to an additional forty (40) hours. This additional leave may be 
granted based on excessive hours, the value of the extraordinary effort, and the performance of the 
employee.  The City Manager has full discretion in deciding whether to grant additional leave. In the 
event that the additional hours take the employee over the eighty (80) hour maximum, they must sell 
back any hours above the maximum accumulation allowable.  
SICK LEAVE
The purpose of sick leave is to continue the compensation of employees who must remain off their jobs 
because of illness or disability.  Such sick leave is a privilege which employees can exercise in the event 
of his/her bona fide illness or disability or in the event their presence away from work is essential 
because of illness, death or disability of their immediate family.  
For full-time employees, leave shall be accrued at the rate of 3.7 hours for each biweekly pay period (12 
days per year).  Unused sick leave shall be accumulated.  Any employee who is on paid leave shall 
continue to earn sick leave.  An employee who is on leave without pay shall not accrue sick leave.  Sick 
leave shall accrue during an absence due to a work-related disability.  
The City Manager can provide new Department Heads and Deputy Directors with up to 80 hours of sick 
leave upon hire.  The City Manager and City Attorney are provided with this benefit.  
271 of 302

--- page 272 ---
A Department Head is responsible for determining that only bona fide personal or family sick leave is 
taken, consistent with standards established by the City.  This may include the submission of a doctor’s 
certificate with prior notice.
Protected Sick Leave
Protected sick leave may be taken and if taken, shall be charged to sick leave, vacation, holiday, or 
executive leave for the following reasons:
o
The diagnosis, care, or treatment of an existing health condition of, or preventative care for, an 
employee.
o
The diagnosis, care or treatment of an existing health condition of, or preventative care for, an 
employee’s family member.
o
An employee who is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
Employee family member means parent, spouse, domestic partner, son, daughter, domestic partner’s 
child, sibling, stepchildren, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents and grandchildren.
Not more than six (6) days of such protected sick leave shall be granted in any one (1) calendar year.  
However, if extenuating circumstances exist in the opinion of the City Manager, a reasonable extension 
of the six (6) day limit may be granted.  Any additional leave so granted shall be charged against the 
worker's sick leave accumulation.
Family Care Leave
In accordance with the Federal Family and Medical Leave Act and the California Family Rights Act, the 
City will grant job protected unpaid family and medical leave to eligible workers for up to 12 weeks per 
rolling 12-month period.  The City-wide policy will adhere to applicable Federal and State laws. 
Bereavement
In the event of a death in the immediate family, employees may take accrued sick leave of up to three 
(3) days (two (2) shifts for 56-hour employees), or up to five (5) days at the discretion of the City 
Manager.  Bereavement Leave shall be tracked separately from Protected Sick Leave. In this context, 
immediate family shall be defined as:  spouse, domestic partner, child, foster child who resided with the 
employee at the time of his/her death, stepchild, mother, father, stepmother, stepfather, mother-in-
law, father-in-law, brother, stepbrother, sister, stepsister, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandmother, 
grandfather, spouse’s grandmother, spouse’s grandfather, son-in-law, daughter-in-law or grandchildren.
Sick Leave Payout
Upon service or disability retirement, employees shall be paid fifty (50%) of their accrued sick leave up 
to a maximum of four hundred eighty (480) hours payment; see “DEFERRED COMPENSATION AND 
RETIREMENT HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNT (RHSA)” section for more details.  No payments of sick leave 
shall be due or owed to anyone who is terminated by the City.  
DISABILITY LEAVE
The purpose of this Section is to continue the compensation of employees who must remain off their 
jobs as a result of disability occasioned or injury received as a result of the discharge of their duties as 
employees of the City.  The Department Head is responsible for determining that only bona fide 
disability leave is taken.   
For each disability, employees shall be allowed disability leave up to and including sixty (60) working 
days.  Such disability leave shall be at full pay, less the amount paid by Workers' Compensation. 
Disability in excess of that provided in this Section shall be compensated for only under the provisions of 
the Workers' Compensation Act of the State of California
272 of 302

--- page 273 ---
If the sixty (60) working days is exhausted, additional time off may be charged to sick leave with the 
following exception; employees shall not be charged sick leave for that portion of their salary for which 
temporary disability payments are received under the State Worker's Compensation Law.
Additional compensation may be awarded by Resolution of the City Council to employees disabled or 
injured in line of duty, if recommended by the City Manager. 
JURY LEAVE
Employees required to report for jury duty shall be granted a leave of absence with pay from their 
assigned duties until released by the court, provided the employee notifies their Department Head 
immediately of the notice of jury duty.    
MILITARY LEAVE
Military leave shall be granted by the City in accordance with the provisions of State and Federal laws.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
Regardless of the combination of paid and unpaid leave used, a leave of absence shall not exceed twelve 
(12) months in duration, unless otherwise required by law.
Leaves of absence may be granted in cases of illness; in cases of personal emergencies, including 
childbirth; for education and training; or when such absences would not be contrary to the best 
interests of the City.  Any request for leave of absence shall be made in writing for review and approval 
by the City Manager.
LONG TERM DISABILITY INSURANCE
The City shall provide long-term disability insurance providing for a sixty (60) day elimination period, 
subject to prior exhaustion of accrued sick leave or other applicable benefits, and payment of a monthly 
benefit equivalent to sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 ⅔%) of full basic monthly salary less any 
deductible benefits.  
SOCIAL SECURITY
Social Security for miscellaneous employees is paid equally by the City and the employee at 6.2% on the 
Social Security Wage Base. Safety employees hired on or after April 1, 1986 pay 1.45% as the Medicare 
cost of Social Security. 
          
RETIREMENT
Retirement benefits shall be compensated for under applicable legislation pertaining to the California 
Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS).  The City currently provides the following retirement 
benefits:
Safety     
o
3% @ 50 Formula with Single Highest Year Final Compensation for safety employees hired before 
December 9, 2012. 
o
3% @ 55 Formula with highest average annual pensionable compensation earned during 36 
consecutive months of service for “classic” members hired on or after December 9, 2012.
o
2.7% @ 57 Formula with highest average annual pensionable compensation earned during 36 
consecutive months of service for “new” members hired on or after January 1, 2013. 
o
1959 Survivor Benefit Level 4
o
COLA 2% in retirement
o
Death Benefit (DB) Continues (spouse continues to get DB after remarriage)
273 of 302

--- page 274 ---
o
Pre-Retirement Option 2 DB (If retirement eligible employee dies prior to retirement, spouse can 
elect to get ongoing retirement benefits)
o
Military Service Buyback
o
Retired Death Benefit (DB) $500
o
Prior Service Credit
o
Peace Corps: VISTA Buyback
Classic members with the 3% @ 50 Formula or 3% @ 55 Formula pay 50% of the total normal cost rate. 
The contributions toward employer rate will be pre-tax under 414(h)2. New members of PERS hired 
after January 1, 2013 with the 2.7% @ 57 Formula pay 50% of the normal cost rate. The contributions 
toward employer rate will be pre-tax under 414(h)2.
Miscellaneous    
o
2% @ 55 Formula with single highest year compensation for “classic members” hired before 
December 9, 2012
o
2% @ 55 Formula with three-year final compensation for “classic members” hired on or after 
December 9, 2012
o
2% @ 62 Formula with three-year final compensation for “new members” hired on or after January 
1, 2013
o
Social Security Coverage
o
COLA 2% in retirement
o
Death Benefit (DB) Continues (spouse continues to get DB after remarriage)
o
Pre-Retirement Option 2 DB (If retirement eligible employee dies prior to retirement, spouse can 
elect to get ongoing retirement benefits)
o
Military Service Buyback
o
Retired Death Benefit (DB) $500
o
Prior Service Credit
o
Peace Corps: VISTA Buyback
Classic members with the 2% @ 55 Formula pay 50% of the total normal cost rate. The contributions 
toward employer rate will be pre-tax under 414(h)2.  New members hired after January 1, 2013 with the 
2% @ 62 Formula pay 50% of the normal cost rate. The contributions toward employer rate will be pre-
tax under 414(h)2.
HEALTH INSURANCE
The City shall make contributions on behalf of employees eligible for Group Medical Coverage under the 
various plans available to the City in the amounts necessary to a maximum contribution of $160.00 per 
employee per month.  The City's health contribution during part-time employment shall be made on a 
pro rata basis in accordance to hours on the payroll.
The City shall make available to eligible current and retired employees, benefits equal to the 
Meyers-Geddes State Employees' Medical and Hospital Care Act.
    
 FLEXIBLE BENEFITS PLAN
All contributions to the flexible benefits plan are contingent upon compliance with state and federal 
rules and regulations.  Benefits shall be taxed as required by law. 
The City shall contribute up to $1,797.71 (inclusive of the $160 maximum City contribution towards group 
medical insurance) per month towards the flexible benefit plan.
274 of 302

--- page 275 ---
On January 1, 2019 and each January during the term of this Agreement, the City’s contribution to the 
Plan will be increased up to 100% of the Bay Area Kaiser Single rate, 90% of the Bay Area Kaiser Two-Party 
rate, and 90% of the Bay Area Kaiser Family rate.
If an employee is eligible for alternative group medical insurance through a spouse or domestic partner’s 
employer-sponsored medical plan, or through a parent’s insurance, the employee may waive the City’s 
medical insurance coverage and select such alternate plan. Proof of such alternate coverage is required 
prior to waiving coverage through the City plan. Any employee who waives medical coverage entirely shall 
be eligible to receive $160.00 per month as taxable income.
LIFE INSURANCE
The City shall provide $50,000 life insurance and $10,000 accidental death and dismemberment 
insurance without regard to membership in any health plan.
DENTAL INSURANCE
The City shall provide dental care benefits for employees and their dependents including domestic 
partners. The dental benefits 100/80/80 include a maximum calendar year payment of $3,000 and 50% 
orthodontic coverage with a $3,500 lifetime maximum. 
VISION INSURANCE
Vision Benefits include an annual exam, lenses, and frames with an annual deductible of twenty-five 
dollars ($25).   
MONTHLY AUTO ALLOWANCE OR MILEAGE ALLOWANCE
The City Manager and City Attorney shall receive a $375.00 monthly allowance. With City Manager 
approval, department heads shall receive a $375.00 monthly auto allowance.
Upon department head recommendation and City Manager approval, certain deputy directors shall 
receive a $300.00 monthly auto allowance.
Employees that do not receive a monthly auto allowance and must use their private vehicles for official 
city business shall be reimbursed at the IRS established rate.
UNIFORM ALLOWANCE
The Police Chief and Deputy Police Chief shall receive $36.73 per pay period. 
DAMAGE REIMBURSEMENT
Safety employees shall be reimbursed the reasonable value of any personal equipment or clothing 
damaged or destroyed in discharging duties under stress or strain where normal caution cannot be 
exercised. 
HOUSING ASSISTANCE 
It shall be the policy of the City to assist newly appointed Charter Officers, consisting of the City 
Manager, City Attorney and Department Heads, to reside within the City of San Mateo by making 
available, as part of their compensation, a secured loan of City funds to acquire local housing.  Said loans 
shall be made available only upon the following terms and conditions:
o
It shall constitute a part of the compensation for said employees’ services, to be evidenced by a 
separate written agreement entered into at or near the time of initial appointment.
o
The loan shall not exceed an amount which is equal to four (4) times the appointee’s annual 
compensation.
275 of 302

--- page 276 ---
o
The loan shall be available only upon residential property within the City which is, in fact, the 
residence of the employee, and shall be due and payable in full upon termination of the 
employment.
o
The loan must be secured to the satisfaction of the City Council, and evidenced by a promissory note 
secured by a deed of trust, which shall be due and payable in full upon sale or transfer of the 
property, or upon termination of the employment of the employee borrower, whichever occurs 
first.
o
The interest rate initially charged on the loan shall equal the interest rate received by the City on the 
investment of all City funds for the most recently concluded calendar year, as calculated and 
determined by the City Treasurer. The initial interest rate shall remain constant for five years from 
date of the initial agreement and shall thereafter be adjusted on each fifth anniversary of the 
agreement to the interest rate received by the City for the then most recently concluded calendar 
year.
DEFERRED COMPENSATION AND RETIREMENT HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNT (RHSA)   
Employees are eligible to participate in the City-offered 457 deferred compensation plans.  All 
contributions to deferred compensation plans and retirement health savings accounts are contingent 
upon compliance with state and federal rules and regulations.  
Effective September 10, 2017, the RHSA Plan was modified regarding contributions and separation pay 
to reflect the following:
 
Safety Department Heads hired by the City before June 1, 2000: 
o
1% City contribution to deferred compensation
o
No leave balances to RHSA upon separation from City Service
Safety Department Heads hired by the City on or after June 1, 2000: 
o
1% City contribution to RHSA
o
100% of eligible sick leave, and 100% of discretionary leave to RHSA upon separation from City 
Service
Miscellaneous Department Heads hired before January 1, 1977:
o
2% Employee/City match to deferred compensation
o
0.5% City contribution to deferred compensation
o
100% of eligible sick leave, and 50% of discretionary leave, to RHSA upon separation from City 
Service 
City Manager, City Attorney, and Miscellaneous Department Heads hired on or after January 1, 1977:
o
2% Employee / City match to RHSA
o
0.5% City contribution to deferred compensation
o
100% of eligible sick leave, and 100% of vacation leave, to RHSA upon separation from City service
Safety Deputy Directors:
o
2% Employee contribution to RHSA
o
1% City contribution to deferred compensation
o
100% of eligible sick leave, and 100% of vacation leave, to RHSA upon separation from City Service
Miscellaneous Deputy Directors:
o
$50.00 per pay period employee contribution to RHSA
o
2% Employee / City match to deferred compensation
o
0.5% City contribution to deferred compensation
276 of 302

--- page 277 ---
o
100% of eligible sick leave to RHSA upon from City service
SEVERANCE
Employees separating from the City shall not be allowed to remain on the payroll after their last day at 
work.  Severance payment shall be provided in a lump-sum for all leave accrual eligible for payout.  The 
intent of this paragraph is to prevent employees from running out vacation and thereafter not returning 
to work or returning for only a very short time period.
With City Manager approval, Department Heads shall be eligible for severance payment equal to as 
much as six months of base salary and six months benefits payment or continuation of benefits upon 
involuntary termination without “just cause”. 
PROFESSIONAL DUES
Upon request, the City shall pay a reasonable amount for membership dues for one professional 
organization for each employee. 
PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS
Employee performance goals are set early in the evaluation year. A mid-year review of the employee’s 
progress towards completing the performance goals should occur. A written evaluation shall be 
completed by the supervisor and reviewed with the employee at the end of the evaluation year.
EMPLOYMENT PROVISIONS SPECIFICALLY FOR DEPUTY DIRECTORS
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
The probationary period is the length of time required for an employee to become proficient in his/her 
position, and for the Department Head to adequately judge the proficiency.  The standard probationary 
period shall be twelve months, but the Department Head may shorten or lengthen it by up to six months 
depending on the proven proficiency of the probationer. 
LIMITED DURATION POSITION
The City may hire employees in limited duration positions (non-permanent positions) that will not 
exceed three (3) years for any of the following reasons:  (1) where the position is created for a project(s) 
or work that is expected to be completed within three (3) years; (2) where the position is funded by 
grant funds of three (3) or less years in duration; or (3) where the position is funded by moneys from 
capital or enterprise funds that may be unavailable after three (3) years.  Employees shall be informed 
of the duration of the position at the time of employment.  At the end of the position’s duration, 
employment shall terminate and the employee shall not have layoff rights, bumping rights, severance 
payments or reemployment rights.  This provision shall supersede Personnel Rule Sections 1 (13) and 
(24).  Should an employee who was originally hired to fill a limited duration position be later appointed 
to a permanent merit position, his/her hire date will be that date that service began in the limited 
duration position. 
CONTINUOUS SERVICE
Continuous service shall mean service in any merit classification since original appointment with the 
City, excluding any time prior to a break in service. One (1) year of completed continuous service shall 
include, but not be limited to, all time while the employee is on sick leave and/or vacation leave.  
Neither military leave nor leave of absence without pay shall constitute an interruption in computing 
continuous service.  However, leaves of absence without pay of over one month shall not be included 
when computing length of continuous service for vacation purposes. 
277 of 302

--- page 278 ---
LAYOFF
Whenever, in the judgment of the City Council, it becomes necessary to abolish a position(s), including 
the reduction of work hours over twenty percent (20%) per year, the employee(s) displaced shall be 
deemed to be laid off (employees may accept an hours reduction in excess of twenty percent (20%) 
without exercising their layoff rights).  The rights of employees affected by the abolishment of positions 
by the City Council shall be hereafter set forth.
Seniority for purposes of layoff need not be continuous and shall include total accumulated length of 
service under the following types of appointment:
o
Emergency appointment under SMMC 2.57.60(h) or previous SMMC Section 2.57.020 (11).
o
Regular appointment under SMMC 2.57.080.
o
Provisional appointment under SMMC 2.57.070(d).
o
Appointment as City Manager's assistants under SMMC 2.57.060(a) from a position in the classified 
service.
o
Appointment as a Department Head under SMMC 2.57.060(d) from a position in the classified 
service.
In the case of ties, seniority shall be determined on the basis of greater hire date seniority, then by 
random number if necessary.
 
Seniority for Layoff Purposes
o The least senior employee in the classification from which the position is abolished is to be first laid 
off.  Prior to layoff of regular employees, temporary and/or provisional employees in the same 
classification will be laid off first.  For purposes of initial layoff, seniority means time in the 
classification in question.  Flexibly staffed positions will be considered a single classification for layoff 
purposes. 
o For the purposes of Bumping Rights, seniority is defined as seniority within the classification and 
seniority in a directly related higher classification; i.e., a classification that is within the promotional 
line and has a higher salary.
Bumping Rights
Employees laid off may elect to be reassigned to a formerly held classification in any Unit held by an 
employee with less seniority as defined in 22.2, provided the following conditions are met:
o
The formerly held classification exists and has positions allocated and budgeted.  Formerly held 
position includes successor classification if determined by the City to exist.  A successor classification 
exists where the Personnel Board has changed the title of a position or included new duties in the 
same titled classification, provided that a competitive test was not thereafter given for the retitled 
or re-dutied classification.
o
The employee has the ability to perform the essential functions of the formerly held classification.  
Qualifications may be tested by the City as described in the current job description.
o
If the employee has more than one formerly held City classification, they shall bump to the 
classification most recently held; the employee may bump into another formerly held classification if 
no position is available in the "most recently held" classification. 
Mutually Agreed Upon Transfer
The City and an employee who has been laid off or bumped may agree to an appointment to a 
classification that has a vacant position without the need for competitive testing.  The following 
conditions shall apply:
o The City may test the ability of the employee for the position prior to City's decision on whether it 
will mutually agree to the transfer;
278 of 302

--- page 279 ---
o The appointment shall be subordinate to the bumping rights of other employees and may not be 
used to prevent another employee from having access to the vacant position if permitted by the 
bumping provisions.
Severance Package
In the event there is not a less senior, formerly held position for the employee to access through layoff 
or bumping, the employee will be provided a severance package equal to two (2) weeks of pay for each 
complete year of service, to a maximum of six (6) months’ worth of pay.  The City shall make 
arrangements to provide employees laid off with job search assistance for forty-five (45) days following 
the effective date of layoff.  Job search assistance shall include job and career counseling, resume 
preparation, and job search assistance at City expense.
Salary in Event of Change Due to Layoff
An employee's rate of compensation in the event of position change resulting from layoff shall be the 
salary step in the classification to which the employee is laid off which is closest to the base salary 
received immediately prior to layoff.
Notice of Layoff
The City will notice the employee to be laid off and the employees who will be impacted by bumping by 
registered mail or hand delivery.  Affected employee organizations shall be noticed concurrently by 
registered mail.  The notice shall be sent to the mailing address as shown on the employee's last 
paycheck unless a more recent address has been provided to the Human Resources Department by the 
employee.  After notice to the employee and employee organizations, the names of employees to whom 
layoff notices have been sent will be posted at the Human Resources Department in City Hall.  The 
notice shall state the layoff action to be taken, the options available to the employee, reemployment 
rights, and layoff procedures.  Employees shall have ten (10) calendar days to inform the Human 
Resources Department in writing of the decisions on options stated in the notice.  In the event that the 
employee fails to state their decision, the City shall select an option and City's decision shall not be 
subject to appeal.  The City shall select an option that retains employment with the City if such option 
exists.  The failure to receive notice shall not be grounds to set aside actions taken.
Effective Date of Layoff
Thirty (30) calendar days after notice is mailed to the employee, unless a later effective date is stated in 
the notice.  An appeal shall not modify the effective date, provided, however, that where an appeal is 
successful and the layoff is nullified the employee shall be provided salary and benefits as if there was 
not a layoff.
Appeal of Layoff
An employee may not appeal the decision to lay off his/her position, but may appeal the order of layoff, 
the bumping provisions (except the test or results of a test of qualifications), and the seniority 
computation by filing a written appeal with the Human Resources Department stating the basis of the 
appeal.  An appeal must be filed within fourteen (14) calendar days of mailing of notice.  The appeal 
shall be heard by the City Manager/designee within ten (10) calendar days of filing the appeal.  A 
decision will be rendered within ten (10) calendar days of the hearing.  Notice will be given by first class 
mail to the employee and the Association.  A further appeal to the Personnel Board may be filed within 
five (5) calendar days of mailing by filing a written appeal with the Human Resources Office stating the 
basis for the appeal.  The hearing will be held within ten (10) calendar days of the filing of the appeal or 
as soon thereafter as a quorum of the Board may be gathered and a decision rendered within five (5) 
calendar days of the hearing.
Recall and Reinstatement
279 of 302

--- page 280 ---
Employees shall be entitled to recall rights to the position from which they were laid off or bumped for a 
period of two (2) consecutive years from the effective date of layoff or bumping.  The effective date of 
layoff or bumping shall be the employee's last day of work in the classification from which they were laid 
off or bumped.
When a vacancy occurs in a job classification, laid off or bumped employees eligible to return to that job 
classification shall be recalled in the inverse order of bump or layoff.  Permanent employees who were 
laid off or bumped are eligible to return to the job classification in which permanent status was held.  
Employees reinstated under this Section shall not be subject to a new probationary period.  
Probationary employees who did not have permanent status at the time of layoff shall be required to 
serve the remainder of any probationary period upon recall.
When a vacancy exists and employees are to be recalled, notice of the opening(s) shall be sent to the 
mailing address as shown on the employee's last paycheck unless a more recent address has been 
furnished by the laid off/bumped employee.  To expedite recall, more than one employee may be 
notified of an opening.
The employee shall have fourteen (14) calendar days to reply to City from the date of mailing of the 
recall notice.  If employees fail to respond within fourteen (14) calendar days of notice to the City, they 
shall lose all recall rights.  It is the responsibility of the employee who has been laid off to keep the City 
informed of their address and telephone number.  The City has no responsibility to attempt to trace an 
employee if notice of reinstatement is not delivered by the Post Office.
Employees reinstated after layoff shall be treated as though they have been on leave of absence without 
pay in computing salary, vacation, sick leave and other benefits.  The right to reinstatement is 
contingent upon the ability of the employee to perform the essential functions of the position to which 
the employee is being returned.
REEMPLOYMENT
Any permanent employee, separated from a position through resignation and without fault of 
delinquency on their part, upon recommendation of the reemploying Department Head may be 
reemployed to the former position, or to another position in the same class, within two (2) years, 
provided there is an authorized vacancy and the employee meets the requirements for employment.  
Reemployed employees shall be subject to a probationary period, and upon the recommendation of the 
reemploying Department Head, may receive credit for former employment in the determination of the 
amount of vacation allowance, sick leave, other benefits and their salary step.  
DISCIPLINARY ACTION
Employees who are safety personnel covered by the Police Officers’ Bill of Rights (POBR) shall continue 
to have those rights afforded them.   
The term "disciplinary action" shall include the following actions which may be taken by a Department 
Head:
A.
Letter of Reprimand (for employees covered by the POBR only)
B.
Suspension without pay up to thirty (30) calendar days;
C.
Salary reduction;
D.
Demotion; or
E.
Dismissal
A reduction in hours or a change in schedule, scheduling for workload reasons, a change in work 
assignment, layoff, letter of reprimand, and performance evaluations shall not be considered as 
280 of 302

--- page 281 ---
discipline (unless otherwise noted above).  
Whenever a disciplinary action is proposed to be taken against a deputy director, he/she shall be 
notified in writing of the proposed disciplinary action at least five (5) working days in advance of the pre-
disciplinary (“Skelly”) hearing. “Working days” is defined as days on which City Hall is open for business.  
Such written notification shall include a statement of the proposed disciplinary action to be taken; a 
statement of the facts upon which the disciplinary action is based which  shall set forth clearly and with 
such particularity the charges against the employee so he/she can understand said charges; a statement 
indicating the cause for the disciplinary action pursuant to the Personnel Rules or other relevant City 
policies; and a statement describing any actions taken against the employee in the past.
Whenever disciplinary action is taken against a deputy director, he/she shall be notified in writing of the 
action taken.   Such written notification shall include a statement of the disciplinary action taken; a 
statement of the facts upon which the disciplinary action is based, which shall set forth clearly and with 
such particularity the charges against the employee so he/she can understand said charges; a statement 
indicating the cause for the disciplinary action pursuant to the Personnel Rules or other relevant City 
policies; a statement describing any actions taken against the employee in the past; and a statement 
advising the employee that the written notice is to be placed in his/her official personnel file and that 
he/she has a right to appeal to the Personnel Board.  A Department Head may impose discipline 
immediately.
APPEAL OF DISCIPLINARY ACTION
A deputy director can appeal the receipt of disciplinary action to the Personnel Board by delivering a 
written notice of appeal to the Human Resources Department within ten (10) working days of the date 
the written notice of disciplinary action was served upon him/her.  In the event the deputy director fails 
to deliver a notice of appeal to the Human Resources Department within said ten (10) working day 
period, the disciplinary action shall become final, and the Deputy Director shall have no further right to 
appeal.   
The written notice of appeal filed with the Human Resources Department shall not be required to be in 
any particular format; however, it shall contain at least the following information:
1. 
The name and address of the deputy director;
2.
The date of the disciplinary action and a statement to the effect that the deputy director appeals 
the disciplinary action; and
3. 
The notice of appeal shall be dated and signed by the deputy director or by his/her representative.
When the Human Resources Department receives a notice of appeal which complies with the 
requirements set forth herein, the Human Resources Director shall schedule the matter for hearing. For 
a Letter of Reprimand (for employees covered by the POBR only), the hearing is with the Department 
Head or his/her designee.  For suspension without pay, in-grade salary reduction, demotion, or 
dismissal, the hearing is scheduled at the next available regular meeting of the Personnel Board at least 
fifteen (15) working days after receipt of the notice of appeal. 
For Letters of Reprimand issued to employees covered by the POBR, the Department Head or his/her 
designee shall render a final decision concerning the appeal following the hearing, within ten (10) days 
after the matter is submitted.  The decision of the Department Head or his/her designee shall be final 
and conclusive. For suspension without pay, in-grade salary reduction, demotion, or dismissal, the 
Personnel Board shall render written findings and recommendations and final decisions concerning the 
appeal within ten (10) working days after the matter is submitted.  The decision of the Personnel Board 
shall be final and conclusive unless determined otherwise by a court of competent jurisdiction.
281 of 302

--- page 282 ---
SAFETY SHOES
The City shall provide a reimbursement of up to $200.00 every two years for one (1) pair of safety shoes 
for classifications approved for reimbursement by the department head as deemed necessary.  Said 
reimbursement shall be paid against official receipts for safety shoe expenditures. Safety shoes shall be 
defined by a classification’s standard or by the employee’s department head. 
282 of 302

--- page 283 ---
Consolidated City Manager, City Attorney, Department Head and Deputy Director Compensation Plan
ATTACHMENT 1
City Manager and City Attorney 
The salary for City Manager was effective August 21, 2023 based on City Council action taken on June 20, 2023. 
The salary for City Attorney was effective February 4, 2024 based on City Council action taken on February 5, 
2024.
TITLE
HOURLY
BI-WEEKLY
MONTHLY
ANNUAL
CITY MANAGER
$162.50
$13,000.00
$28,166.67
$338,000.00
CITY ATTORNEY
$137.02
$10,961.54
$23,750.00
$285,000.00
Salary is based on a 40-hour work week.
Department Heads 
Effective April 28, 2024, the City Manager shall establish salaries for department heads for their respective 
positions at a step within the monthly ranges indicated below.  
JOB 
CODE
TITLE
STEPS
HOURLY
BI-WEEKLY
MONTHLY
ANNUAL
1260
ASST CITY 
MANAGER
STEP 1
123.32
9,865.73
21,375.76
256,509.10
 
 
STEP 2
129.49
10,359.02
22,444.55
269,334.56
 
 
STEP 3
135.96
10,876.97
23,566.77
282,801.28
1140
CHIEF OF 
POLICE
STEP 1
141.29
11,303.34
24,490.58
293,887.01
 
STEP 2
148.36
11,868.51
25,715.10
308,581.25
 
 
STEP 3
155.77
12,461.94
27,000.86
324,010.28
1230
CITY CLERK
STEP 1
93.89
7,511.11
16,274.08
195,288.92
 
STEP 2
98.58
7,886.66
17,087.77
205,053.27
 
 
STEP 3
103.51
8,281.00
17,942.16
215,305.96
1210
CITY 
LIBRARIAN
STEP 1
105.90
8,472.17
18,356.36
220,276.37
 
STEP 2
111.20
8,895.78
19,274.18
231,290.22
 
 
STEP 3
116.76
9,340.56
20,237.89
242,854.69
1160
DIR COMM 
DEVELOPMEN
T
STEP 1
106.02
8,481.29
18,376.12
220,513.49
 
STEP 2
111.32
8,905.35
19,294.93
231,539.20
 
 
STEP 3
116.88
9,350.62
20,259.68
243,116.15
1270
DIR INFO 
TECHNOLOGY
STEP 1
103.28
8,262.23
17,901.49
214,817.87
 
STEP 2
108.44
8,675.33
18,796.55
225,558.66
 
 
STEP 3
113.86
9,109.10
19,736.39
236,836.71
1250
DIR PARKS & 
RECREATION
STEP 1
106.02
8,481.29
18,376.12
220,513.49
 
STEP 2
111.32
8,905.35
19,294.93
231,539.20
283 of 302

--- page 284 ---
STEP 3
116.88
9,350.62
20,259.68
243,116.15
1120
DIR PUBLIC 
WORKS
STEP 1
111.94
8,955.56
19,403.71
232,844.48
 
STEP 2
117.54
9,403.33
20,373.89
244,486.70
 
 
STEP 3
123.42
9,873.50
21,392.59
256,711.11
1220
FINANCE 
DIRECTOR
STEP 1
111.69
8,935.25
19,359.71
232,316.58
 
STEP 2
117.28
9,382.01
20,327.69
243,932.34
 
 
STEP 3
123.14
9,851.12
21,344.09
256,129.04
1180
HUMAN 
RESOURCES 
DIR
STEP 1
106.89
8,551.41
18,528.04
222,336.50
 
STEP 2
112.24
8,978.97
19,454.43
233,453.21
 
 
STEP 3
117.85
9,427.92
20,427.16
245,125.99
Salary is based on a 40-hour work week.
Deputy Directors
The Department Head, with City Manager concurrence, has the authority to fix compensation for his/her 
respective Deputy Director(s) in the same manner the City Manager establishes salary for department heads.   A 
deputy director who disagrees with his/her placement within the range may discuss it with the City Manager.  
Effective March 5, 2023, the deputy directors of city departments shall receive monthly salaries for their 
respective positions at a step within the monthly ranges indicated below.  
JOB 
CODE
TITLE
STEPS
HOURLY
BI-WEEKLY
MONTHLY
ANNUAL
2237
DEPUTY 
CITY 
LIBRARIAN
STEP 1
80.11
6,409.08
13,886.33
166,635.96
 
 
STEP 2
84.12
6,729.52
14,580.63
174,967.61
 
 
STEP 3
88.33
7,066.00
15,309.67
183,716.09
2135
DEPUTY 
CDD 
DIRECTOR
STEP 1
92.19
7,375.03
15,979.23
191,750.71
 
 
STEP 2
96.80
7,743.77
16,778.17
201,338.10
 
 
STEP 3
101.64
8,130.96
17,617.09
211,405.09
2271
DEPUTY 
DIRECTOR 
PARKS & 
REC
STEP 1
88.29
7,063.56
15,304.39
183,652.69
STEP 2
92.71
7,416.74
16,069.61
192,835.35
STEP 3
97.34
7,787.58
16,873.08
202,477.02
284 of 302

--- page 285 ---
2117
DEP DIR 
PUBLIC 
WORKS
STEP 1
90.94
7,275.56
15,763.72
189,164.61
 
 
STEP 2
95.49
7,639.34
16,551.91
198,622.95
 
 
STEP 3
100.27
8,021.30
17,379.49
208,553.91
2545
DEPUTY 
POLICE 
CHIEF
STEP 1
114.39
9,151.06
19,827.30
237,927.59
 
 
STEP 2
120.11
9,608.61
20,818.66
249,823.90
 
 
STEP 3
126.11
10,089.04
21,859.59
262,315.13
2029
DEPUTY 
DIRECTOR 
OF FINANCE
STEP 1
89.35
7,148.20
15,487.77
185,853.29
STEP 2
93.82
7,505.62
16,262.17
195,146.02
STEP 3
98.51
7,880.89
17,075.27
204,903.26
Salary is based on a 40-hour work week.
285 of 302

--- page 286 ---
EXHIBIT A 
 
CONSOLIDATED CITY MANAGER, CITY ATTORNEY, DEPARTMENT HEAD AND DEPUTY DIRECTOR 
COMPENSATION PLAN 
 
SALARY 
 
Successful employee performance is a key factor in determining compensation. 
 
Salaries have been established for the City Manager and the City Attorney.  The current amounts are 
listed in Attachment 1. 
 
A three-step salary range has been established for each Department Head and Deputy Director 
classification.  The proposed salary ranges for the revised Assistant City ManagerPolice Chief 
classification with a thirteen twelve percent (1312.0%) increase, and the Human Resources Director 
classification with a three and a half percent (3.5%) increase is are listed in Attachment 1. Salary 
placement is based upon performance review and experience. 
 
The City Manager is authorized to offer unrepresented management employees or potential 
unrepresented management employees, on a case by case basis, additional fringe benefits incentives, 
not to exceed 10% of the position’s base salary.   
 
TEMPORARY UPGRADE PAY 
In the event the City Manager determines that it is necessary to assign a Department Head or Deputy 
Director to perform all of the duties of a higher paid classification for two or more consecutive 
workweeks, he/she shall receive payment for the higher classification for the entire duration of the 
assignment.  The City Manager shall set the salary within the established salary range.  Except with the 
approval of the City Manager, a temporary upgrade assignment shall not continue for longer than one 
year.  
 
When an employee performs a significant portion but not all of the duties of a higher paid classification, 
the employee may petition the City Manager for a differential in pay of up to 10%, to be determined by 
duties assigned for this work out of class. 
 
 
EMERGENCY WORK 
In the event a City Council declared emergency necessitates the devotion of excessive working time by 
certain management employees in order to maintain essential public services, the City Manager may 
authorize overtime on a case-by-case basis.  Such authorization shall terminate upon cessation of the 
City Council declared emergency.  
 
PERSONAL TRAINING 
Department Heads and Deputy Directors are encouraged to attend instructional programs, conferences 
and seminars as available in the department’s budget.  If the cost to attend exceeds $2,000, attendance 
must be pre-approved by the City Manager.    
 
LEAVE ACCRUALS 
Employees shall accrue vacation leave, sick leave and holiday leave on a pro-rata basis in proportion to 
regular hours on the payroll.  Credit shall not be received for time off without pay. Vacation leave, sick 
leave, and holiday credits shall accrue from date of appointment. 
 
286 of 302

--- page 287 ---
Absences of less than four hours shall not be deducted from leave balances. Employees are expected to 
work a minimum of 40 hours per week, with schedules that may vary from day to day based on 
workplace needs. 
 
 
HOLIDAYS 
 
The holidays to be observed are as follows: 
 
A. 
New Year's Day, January 1st 
 
B. 
Martin Luther King's Birthday, 3rd Monday in January 
 
C. 
President's Day, 3rd Monday in February 
 
D. 
Memorial Day, last Monday in May 
E. 
Juneteenth, June 19th 
 
F. 
Independence Day, July 4th 
 
G. 
Labor Day, 1st Monday in September 
 
H. 
Veteran's Day, November 11 
 
I. 
Thanksgiving Day, 4th Thursday in November 
 
J. 
The day after Thanksgiving 
 
K. 
Christmas Day, December 25th 
 
L. 
Every day approved by the City Council as a public holiday, public fast, or a day of mourning 
 
M. 
Three (3) floating holidays to be taken on working days mutually agreeable to the employee and 
the department.  Employees shall accrue twelve (12) hours of floating holiday time during the 
first full pay period in January and July each year. 
 
If a holiday falls on Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed.  If a holiday falls on Saturday, the 
preceding Friday shall be observed as the holiday.  If a holiday falls on one’s regularly scheduled day off, 
holiday time shall be granted.  
 
In the event holidays fall while an employee is on vacation leave, such holidays shall not be charged as 
vacation leave. 
 
 
Employees have a forty (40) hour maximum holiday accumulation.    
 
 
Realizing that not all Safety Department Heads and Safety Deputy Directors are able to take holidays 
when they fall, as determined by the City Manager, such managers shall be compensated by being 
placed on a bi-weekly holiday factor.   Holiday leave shall never accumulate to more than eighty (80) 
hours.  Effective with the pay period starting December 29, 2019, such managers shall be compensated 
by receiving holiday-in-lieu pay at the rate of 5.0% of base pay each pay period. 
 
VACATION 
Vacations are essential to the employee's welfare and they are granted by the City to allow employees 
relaxation and rest from their duties.  It is the policy of the City not to allow the excess accumulation of 
vacation leave.  All full-time employees shall be entitled to vacation leave with pay as provided below 
after completion of continuous service with the City.  The time at which an employee may take vacation 
shall take into consideration the needs of the City.  
 
Employees shall accrue a vacation allowance at the rate of 20 days per year for the first 12 years of 
service, 22.5 days per year for 13 through 23 years of service, and 25 days per year at the beginning of 
24 years of service.  The above allowances shall be pro-rated for employees beginning employment or 
leaving employment with the City during a biweekly pay period.    
 
287 of 302

--- page 288 ---
The City Manager is authorized to provide at-will department heads with vacation accrual based upon 
the number of years of prior service with public entity employers.   The City Manager and City Attorney 
are provided with this benefit.   
 
The City Manager can provide new Department Heads and Deputy Directors with a balance of up to 80 
hours of vacation leave upon hire. The City Manager and City Attorney are provided with this benefit.  
 
Department Heads and Deputy Directors may not accrue more than two times (2x) their vacation leave.   
 
Employees who leave employment shall be paid the straight-time salary equivalent in a lump sum for all 
accrued vacation leave earned.  Such compensation for prorated vacation of separated employees shall 
be paid by adding or deducting from his or her final paycheck. 
 
VACATION SELL BACK 
An employee may make an irrevocable election to sell back to the City eighty (80) hours of accumulated 
vacation at the employee’s established rate of pay per calendar year. At the time of election, the 
employee must already have taken a minimum of two (2) weeks’ vacation in the preceding twelve (12) 
months. 
 
Requests must be received by Payroll no later than December 31 for the following year elections. No 
employee can elect to sell back more than their annual vacation accrual. Elected hours not requested for 
distribution (sell back) by December 1 will be automatically distributed in the next pay period (sell back 
cannot be more than the hours available at time of distribution). 
 
EXECUTIVE LEAVE 
Department Heads and Deputy Directors shall accrue forty-eight (48) hours per year of executive leave, 
on a pay period basis.   Executive leave shall have a maximum balance of eighty (80) hours.  Department 
Heads and Deputy Directors may sell back up to forty (40) hours per calendar year, following the 
procedures outlined in ‘VACATION SELL BACK’.  
 
A Department Head may recommend to the City Manager that an additional amount of executive leave 
be authorized for a Deputy Director, up to an additional forty (40) hours. This additional leave may be 
granted based on excessive hours, the value of the extraordinary effort, and the performance of the 
employee.  The City Manager has full discretion in deciding whether to grant additional leave. In the 
event that the additional hours take the employee over the eighty (80) hour maximum, they must sell 
back any hours above the maximum accumulation allowable.   
 
SICK LEAVE 
The purpose of sick leave is to continue the compensation of employees who must remain off their jobs 
because of illness or disability.  Such sick leave is a privilege which employees can exercise in the event 
of his/her bona fide illness or disability or in the event their presence away from work is essential 
because of illness, death or disability of their immediate family.   
 
For full-time employees, leave shall be accrued at the rate of 3.7 hours for each biweekly pay period (12 
days per year).  Unused sick leave shall be accumulated.  Any employee who is on paid leave shall 
continue to earn sick leave.  An employee who is on leave without pay shall not accrue sick leave.  Sick 
leave shall accrue during an absence due to a work-related disability.   
 
The City Manager can provide new Department Heads and Deputy Directors with up to 80 hours of sick 
leave upon hire.  The City Manager and City Attorney are provided with this benefit.   
 
288 of 302

--- page 289 ---
A Department Head is responsible for determining that only bona fide personal or family sick leave is 
taken, consistent with standards established by the City.  This may include the submission of a doctor’s 
certificate with prior notice. 
 
Protected Sick Leave 
Protected sick leave may be taken and if taken, shall be charged to sick leave, vacation, holiday, or 
executive leave for the following reasons: 
o The diagnosis, care, or treatment of an existing health condition of, or preventative care for, an 
employee. 
o The diagnosis, care or treatment of an existing health condition of, or preventative care for, an 
employee’s family member. 
o An employee who is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking. 
 
Employee family member means parent, spouse, domestic partner, son, daughter, domestic partner’s 
child, sibling, stepchildren, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents and grandchildren. 
Not more than six (6) days of such protected sick leave shall be granted in any one (1) calendar year.  
However, if extenuating circumstances exist in the opinion of the City Manager, a reasonable extension 
of the six (6) day limit may be granted.  Any additional leave so granted shall be charged against the 
worker's sick leave accumulation. 
 
Family Care Leave 
In accordance with the Federal Family and Medical Leave Act and the California Family Rights Act, the 
City will grant job protected unpaid family and medical leave to eligible workers for up to 12 weeks per 
rolling 12-month period.  The City-wide policy will adhere to applicable Federal and State laws.  
 
Bereavement 
In the event of a death in the immediate family, employees may take accrued sick leave of up to three 
(3) days (two (2) shifts for 56-hour employees), or up to five (5) days at the discretion of the City 
Manager.  Bereavement Leave shall be tracked separately from Protected Sick Leave. In this context, 
immediate family shall be defined as:  spouse, domestic partner, child, foster child who resided with the 
employee at the time of his/her death, stepchild, mother, father, stepmother, stepfather, mother-in-
law, father-in-law, brother, stepbrother, sister, stepsister, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandmother, 
grandfather, spouse’s grandmother, spouse’s grandfather, son-in-law, daughter-in-law or grandchildren. 
 
 
Sick Leave Payout 
Upon service or disability retirement, employees shall be paid fifty (50%) of their accrued sick leave up 
to a maximum of four hundred eighty (480) hours payment; see “DEFERRED COMPENSATION AND 
RETIREMENT HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNT (RHSA)” section for more details.  No payments of sick leave 
shall be due or owed to anyone who is terminated by the City.   
 
 
DISABILITY LEAVE 
The purpose of this Section is to continue the compensation of employees who must remain off their 
jobs as a result of disability occasioned or injury received as a result of the discharge of their duties as 
employees of the City.  The Department Head is responsible for determining that only bona fide 
disability leave is taken.    
 
For each disability, employees shall be allowed disability leave up to and including sixty (60) working 
days.  Such disability leave shall be at full pay, less the amount paid by Workers' Compensation. 
Disability in excess of that provided in this Section shall be compensated for only under the provisions of 
the Workers' Compensation Act of the State of California 
 
289 of 302

--- page 290 ---
If the sixty (60) working days is exhausted, additional time off may be charged to sick leave with the 
following exception; employees shall not be charged sick leave for that portion of their salary for which 
temporary disability payments are received under the State Worker's Compensation Law. 
 
Additional compensation may be awarded by Resolution of the City Council to employees disabled or 
injured in line of duty, if recommended by the City Manager.  
 
JURY LEAVE 
Employees required to report for jury duty shall be granted a leave of absence with pay from their 
assigned duties until released by the court, provided the employee notifies their Department Head 
immediately of the notice of jury duty.     
 
 
MILITARY LEAVE 
Military leave shall be granted by the City in accordance with the provisions of State and Federal laws. 
 
LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY 
Regardless of the combination of paid and unpaid leave used, a leave of absence shall not exceed twelve 
(12) months in duration, unless otherwise required by law. 
 
Leaves of absence may be granted in cases of illness; in cases of personal emergencies, including 
childbirth; for education and training; or when such absences would not be contrary to the best 
interests of the City.  Any request for leave of absence shall be made in writing for review and approval 
by the City Manager. 
 
LONG TERM DISABILITY INSURANCE 
The City shall provide long-term disability insurance providing for a sixty (60) day elimination period, 
subject to prior exhaustion of accrued sick leave or other applicable benefits, and payment of a monthly 
benefit equivalent to sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 ⅔%) of full basic monthly salary less any 
deductible benefits.   
 
 
SOCIAL SECURITY 
Social Security for miscellaneous employees is paid equally by the City and the employee at 6.2% on the 
Social Security Wage Base. Safety employees hired on or after April 1, 1986 pay 1.45% as the Medicare 
cost of Social Security.  
 
           RETIREMENT 
Retirement benefits shall be compensated for under applicable legislation pertaining to the California 
Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS).  The City currently provides the following retirement 
benefits: 
 
Safety      
o 3% @ 50 Formula with Single Highest Year Final Compensation for safety employees hired before 
December 9, 2012.  
o 3% @ 55 Formula with highest average annual pensionable compensation earned during 36 
consecutive months of service for “classic” members hired on or after December 9, 2012. 
o 2.7% @ 57 Formula with highest average annual pensionable compensation earned during 36 
consecutive months of service for “new” members hired on or after January 1, 2013.  
o 1959 Survivor Benefit Level 4 
o COLA 2% in retirement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o Death Benefit (DB) Continues (spouse continues to get DB after remarriage)  
290 of 302

--- page 291 ---
o Pre-Retirement Option 2 DB (If retirement eligible employee dies prior to retirement, spouse can 
elect to get ongoing retirement benefits) 
 
 
 
o Military Service Buyback 
 
 
 
 
o Retired Death Benefit (DB) $500 
 
 
 
o Prior Service Credit 
 
 
 
 
 
o Peace Corps: VISTA Buyback 
 
Classic members with the 3% @ 50 Formula or 3% @ 55 Formula pay 50% of the total normal cost rate. 
The contributions toward employer rate will be pre-tax under 414(h)2. New members of PERS hired 
after January 1, 2013 with the 2.7% @ 57 Formula pay 50% of the normal cost rate. The contributions 
toward employer rate will be pre-tax under 414(h)2. 
Miscellaneous     
o 2% @ 55 Formula with single highest year compensation for “classic members” hired before 
December 9, 2012 
o 2% @ 55 Formula with three-year final compensation for “classic members” hired on or after 
December 9, 2012 
o 2% @ 62 Formula with three-year final compensation for “new members” hired on or after January 
1, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o Social Security Coverage 
 
 
 
 
o COLA 2% in retirement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o Death Benefit (DB) Continues (spouse continues to get DB after remarriage)  
o Pre-Retirement Option 2 DB (If retirement eligible employee dies prior to retirement, spouse can 
elect to get ongoing retirement benefits) 
 
 
 
 
o Military Service Buyback 
 
 
 
 
o Retired Death Benefit (DB) $500 
 
 
 
o Prior Service Credit 
 
 
 
 
 
o Peace Corps: VISTA Buyback 
 
Classic members with the 2% @ 55 Formula pay 50% of the total normal cost rate. The contributions 
toward employer rate will be pre-tax under 414(h)2.  New members hired after January 1, 2013 with the 
2% @ 62 Formula pay 50% of the normal cost rate. The contributions toward employer rate will be pre-
tax under 414(h)2. 
 
HEALTH INSURANCE 
The City shall make contributions on behalf of employees eligible for Group Medical Coverage under the 
various plans available to the City in the amounts necessary to a maximum contribution of $160.00 per 
employee per month.  The City's health contribution during part-time employment shall be made on a 
pro rata basis in accordance to hours on the payroll. 
 
The City shall make available to eligible current and retired employees, benefits equal to the 
Meyers-Geddes State Employees' Medical and Hospital Care Act. 
     
 FLEXIBLE BENEFITS PLAN 
All contributions to the flexible benefits plan are contingent upon compliance with state and federal 
rules and regulations.  Benefits shall be taxed as required by law.  
 
The City shall contribute up to $1,797.71 (inclusive of the $160 maximum City contribution towards group 
medical insurance) per month towards the flexible benefit plan. 
 
291 of 302

--- page 292 ---
On January 1, 2019 and each January during the term of this Agreement, the City’s contribution to the 
Plan will be increased up to 100% of the Bay Area Kaiser Single rate, 90% of the Bay Area Kaiser Two-Party 
rate, and 90% of the Bay Area Kaiser Family rate. 
 
If an employee is eligible for alternative group medical insurance through a spouse or domestic partner’s 
employer-sponsored medical plan, or through a parent’s insurance, the employee may waive the City’s 
medical insurance coverage and select such alternate plan. Proof of such alternate coverage is required 
prior to waiving coverage through the City plan. Any employee who waives medical coverage entirely shall 
be eligible to receive $160.00 per month as taxable income. 
 
LIFE INSURANCE 
The City shall provide $50,000 life insurance and $10,000 accidental death and dismemberment 
insurance without regard to membership in any health plan. 
 
DENTAL INSURANCE 
The City shall provide dental care benefits for employees and their dependents including domestic 
partners. The dental benefits 100/80/80 include a maximum calendar year payment of $3,000 and 50% 
orthodontic coverage with a $3,500 lifetime maximum.  
 
VISION INSURANCE 
Vision Benefits include an annual exam, lenses, and frames with an annual deductible of twenty-five 
dollars ($25).    
 
MONTHLY AUTO ALLOWANCE OR MILEAGE ALLOWANCE 
The City Manager and City Attorney shall receive a $375.00 monthly allowance. With City Manager 
approval, department heads shall receive a $375.00 monthly auto allowance. 
 
Upon department head recommendation and City Manager approval, certain deputy directors shall 
receive a $300.00 monthly auto allowance. 
 
Employees that do not receive a monthly auto allowance and must use their private vehicles for official 
city business shall be reimbursed at the IRS established rate. 
 
UNIFORM ALLOWANCE 
The Police Chief and Deputy Police Chief shall receive $36.73 per pay period.  
 
DAMAGE REIMBURSEMENT 
Safety employees shall be reimbursed the reasonable value of any personal equipment or clothing 
damaged or destroyed in discharging duties under stress or strain where normal caution cannot be 
exercised.  
 
HOUSING ASSISTANCE  
It shall be the policy of the City to assist newly appointed Charter Officers, consisting of the City 
Manager, City Attorney and Department Heads, to reside within the City of San Mateo by making 
available, as part of their compensation, a secured loan of City funds to acquire local housing.  Said loans 
shall be made available only upon the following terms and conditions: 
o It shall constitute a part of the compensation for said employees’ services, to be evidenced by a 
separate written agreement entered into at or near the time of initial appointment. 
o The loan shall not exceed an amount which is equal to four (4) times the appointee’s annual 
compensation. 
292 of 302

--- page 293 ---
o The loan shall be available only upon residential property within the City which is, in fact, the 
residence of the employee, and shall be due and payable in full upon termination of the 
employment. 
o The loan must be secured to the satisfaction of the City Council, and evidenced by a promissory note 
secured by a deed of trust, which shall be due and payable in full upon sale or transfer of the 
property, or upon termination of the employment of the employee borrower, whichever occurs 
first. 
o The interest rate initially charged on the loan shall equal the interest rate received by the City on the 
investment of all City funds for the most recently concluded calendar year, as calculated and 
determined by the City Treasurer. The initial interest rate shall remain constant for five years from 
date of the initial agreement and shall thereafter be adjusted on each fifth anniversary of the 
agreement to the interest rate received by the City for the then most recently concluded calendar 
year. 
 
DEFERRED COMPENSATION AND RETIREMENT HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNT (RHSA)    
Employees are eligible to participate in the City-offered 457 deferred compensation plans.  All 
contributions to deferred compensation plans and retirement health savings accounts are contingent 
upon compliance with state and federal rules and regulations.   
 
Effective September 10, 2017, the RHSA Plan was modified regarding contributions and separation pay 
to reflect the following: 
  
Safety Department Heads hired by the City before June 1, 2000:  
o 1% City contribution to deferred compensation 
o No leave balances to RHSA upon separation from City Service 
 
Safety Department Heads hired by the City on or after June 1, 2000:  
o 1% City contribution to RHSA 
o 100% of eligible sick leave, and 100% of discretionary leave to RHSA upon separation from City 
Service 
 
Miscellaneous Department Heads hired before January 1, 1977: 
o 2% Employee/City match to deferred compensation 
o 0.5% City contribution to deferred compensation 
o 100% of eligible sick leave, and 50% of discretionary leave, to RHSA upon separation from City 
Service  
 
City Manager, City Attorney, and Miscellaneous Department Heads hired on or after January 1, 1977: 
o 2% Employee / City match to RHSA 
o 0.5% City contribution to deferred compensation 
o 100% of eligible sick leave, and 100% of vacation leave, to RHSA upon separation from City service 
 
Safety Deputy Directors: 
o 2% Employee contribution to RHSA 
o 1% City contribution to deferred compensation 
o 100% of eligible sick leave, and 100% of vacation leave, to RHSA upon separation from City Service 
 
Miscellaneous Deputy Directors: 
o $50.00 per pay period employee contribution to RHSA 
o 2% Employee / City match to deferred compensation 
o 0.5% City contribution to deferred compensation 
293 of 302

--- page 294 ---
o 100% of eligible sick leave to RHSA upon from City service 
 
SEVERANCE 
Employees separating from the City shall not be allowed to remain on the payroll after their last day at 
work.  Severance payment shall be provided in a lump-sum for all leave accrual eligible for payout.  The 
intent of this paragraph is to prevent employees from running out vacation and thereafter not returning 
to work or returning for only a very short time period. 
 
With City Manager approval, Department Heads shall be eligible for severance payment equal to as 
much as six months of base salary and six months benefits payment or continuation of benefits upon 
involuntary termination without “just cause”.  
 
PROFESSIONAL DUES 
Upon request, the City shall pay a reasonable amount for membership dues for one professional 
organization for each employee.  
 
PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS 
Employee performance goals are set early in the evaluation year. A mid-year review of the employee’s 
progress towards completing the performance goals should occur. A written evaluation shall be 
completed by the supervisor and reviewed with the employee at the end of the evaluation year. 
 
 
EMPLOYMENT PROVISIONS SPECIFICALLY FOR DEPUTY DIRECTORS 
 
PROBATIONARY PERIOD 
The probationary period is the length of time required for an employee to become proficient in his/her 
position, and for the Department Head to adequately judge the proficiency.  The standard probationary 
period shall be twelve months, but the Department Head may shorten or lengthen it by up to six months 
depending on the proven proficiency of the probationer.  
 
LIMITED DURATION POSITION 
The City may hire employees in limited duration positions (non-permanent positions) that will not 
exceed three (3) years for any of the following reasons:  (1) where the position is created for a project(s) 
or work that is expected to be completed within three (3) years; (2) where the position is funded by 
grant funds of three (3) or less years in duration; or (3) where the position is funded by moneys from 
capital or enterprise funds that may be unavailable after three (3) years.  Employees shall be informed 
of the duration of the position at the time of employment.  At the end of the position’s duration, 
employment shall terminate and the employee shall not have layoff rights, bumping rights, severance 
payments or reemployment rights.  This provision shall supersede Personnel Rule Sections 1 (13) and 
(24).  Should an employee who was originally hired to fill a limited duration position be later appointed 
to a permanent merit position, his/her hire date will be that date that service began in the limited 
duration position.  
 
CONTINUOUS SERVICE 
Continuous service shall mean service in any merit classification since original appointment with the 
City, excluding any time prior to a break in service. One (1) year of completed continuous service shall 
include, but not be limited to, all time while the employee is on sick leave and/or vacation leave.  
Neither military leave nor leave of absence without pay shall constitute an interruption in computing 
continuous service.  However, leaves of absence without pay of over one month shall not be included 
when computing length of continuous service for vacation purposes.  
 
294 of 302

--- page 295 ---
LAYOFF 
Whenever, in the judgment of the City Council, it becomes necessary to abolish a position(s), including 
the reduction of work hours over twenty percent (20%) per year, the employee(s) displaced shall be 
deemed to be laid off (employees may accept an hours reduction in excess of twenty percent (20%) 
without exercising their layoff rights).  The rights of employees affected by the abolishment of positions 
by the City Council shall be hereafter set forth. 
 
Seniority for purposes of layoff need not be continuous and shall include total accumulated length of 
service under the following types of appointment: 
o Emergency appointment under SMMC 2.57.60(h) or previous SMMC Section 2.57.020 (11). 
o Regular appointment under SMMC 2.57.080. 
o Provisional appointment under SMMC 2.57.070(d). 
o Appointment as City Manager's assistants under SMMC 2.57.060(a) from a position in the classified 
service. 
o Appointment as a Department Head under SMMC 2.57.060(d) from a position in the classified 
service. 
 
In the case of ties, seniority shall be determined on the basis of greater hire date seniority, then by 
random number if necessary. 
  
Seniority for Layoff Purposes 
o The least senior employee in the classification from which the position is abolished is to be first laid 
off.  Prior to layoff of regular employees, temporary and/or provisional employees in the same 
classification will be laid off first.  For purposes of initial layoff, seniority means time in the 
classification in question.  Flexibly staffed positions will be considered a single classification for layoff 
purposes.  
o For the purposes of Bumping Rights, seniority is defined as seniority within the classification and 
seniority in a directly related higher classification; i.e., a classification that is within the promotional 
line and has a higher salary. 
 
Bumping Rights 
Employees laid off may elect to be reassigned to a formerly held classification in any Unit held by an 
employee with less seniority as defined in 22.2, provided the following conditions are met: 
o The formerly held classification exists and has positions allocated and budgeted.  Formerly held 
position includes successor classification if determined by the City to exist.  A successor classification 
exists where the Personnel Board has changed the title of a position or included new duties in the 
same titled classification, provided that a competitive test was not thereafter given for the retitled 
or re-dutied classification. 
o The employee has the ability to perform the essential functions of the formerly held classification.  
Qualifications may be tested by the City as described in the current job description. 
o If the employee has more than one formerly held City classification, they shall bump to the 
classification most recently held; the employee may bump into another formerly held classification if 
no position is available in the "most recently held" classification.  
 
Mutually Agreed Upon Transfer 
The City and an employee who has been laid off or bumped may agree to an appointment to a 
classification that has a vacant position without the need for competitive testing.  The following 
conditions shall apply: 
o The City may test the ability of the employee for the position prior to City's decision on whether it 
will mutually agree to the transfer; 
295 of 302

--- page 296 ---
o The appointment shall be subordinate to the bumping rights of other employees and may not be 
used to prevent another employee from having access to the vacant position if permitted by the 
bumping provisions. 
 
Severance Package 
In the event there is not a less senior, formerly held position for the employee to access through layoff 
or bumping, the employee will be provided a severance package equal to two (2) weeks of pay for each 
complete year of service, to a maximum of six (6) months’ worth of pay.  The City shall make 
arrangements to provide employees laid off with job search assistance for forty-five (45) days following 
the effective date of layoff.  Job search assistance shall include job and career counseling, resume 
preparation, and job search assistance at City expense. 
 
Salary in Event of Change Due to Layoff 
An employee's rate of compensation in the event of position change resulting from layoff shall be the 
salary step in the classification to which the employee is laid off which is closest to the base salary 
received immediately prior to layoff. 
 
Notice of Layoff 
The City will notice the employee to be laid off and the employees who will be impacted by bumping by 
registered mail or hand delivery.  Affected employee organizations shall be noticed concurrently by 
registered mail.  The notice shall be sent to the mailing address as shown on the employee's last 
paycheck unless a more recent address has been provided to the Human Resources Department by the 
employee.  After notice to the employee and employee organizations, the names of employees to whom 
layoff notices have been sent will be posted at the Human Resources Department in City Hall.  The 
notice shall state the layoff action to be taken, the options available to the employee, reemployment 
rights, and layoff procedures.  Employees shall have ten (10) calendar days to inform the Human 
Resources Department in writing of the decisions on options stated in the notice.  In the event that the 
employee fails to state their decision, the City shall select an option and City's decision shall not be 
subject to appeal.  The City shall select an option that retains employment with the City if such option 
exists.  The failure to receive notice shall not be grounds to set aside actions taken. 
 
Effective Date of Layoff 
Thirty (30) calendar days after notice is mailed to the employee, unless a later effective date is stated in 
the notice.  An appeal shall not modify the effective date, provided, however, that where an appeal is 
successful and the layoff is nullified the employee shall be provided salary and benefits as if there was 
not a layoff. 
 
Appeal of Layoff 
An employee may not appeal the decision to lay off his/her position, but may appeal the order of layoff, 
the bumping provisions (except the test or results of a test of qualifications), and the seniority 
computation by filing a written appeal with the Human Resources Department stating the basis of the 
appeal.  An appeal must be filed within fourteen (14) calendar days of mailing of notice.  The appeal 
shall be heard by the City Manager/designee within ten (10) calendar days of filing the appeal.  A 
decision will be rendered within ten (10) calendar days of the hearing.  Notice will be given by first class 
mail to the employee and the Association.  A further appeal to the Personnel Board may be filed within 
five (5) calendar days of mailing by filing a written appeal with the Human Resources Office stating the 
basis for the appeal.  The hearing will be held within ten (10) calendar days of the filing of the appeal or 
as soon thereafter as a quorum of the Board may be gathered and a decision rendered within five (5) 
calendar days of the hearing. 
 
Recall and Reinstatement 
296 of 302

--- page 297 ---
Employees shall be entitled to recall rights to the position from which they were laid off or bumped for a 
period of two (2) consecutive years from the effective date of layoff or bumping.  The effective date of 
layoff or bumping shall be the employee's last day of work in the classification from which they were laid 
off or bumped. 
 
When a vacancy occurs in a job classification, laid off or bumped employees eligible to return to that job 
classification shall be recalled in the inverse order of bump or layoff.  Permanent employees who were 
laid off or bumped are eligible to return to the job classification in which permanent status was held.  
Employees reinstated under this Section shall not be subject to a new probationary period.  
Probationary employees who did not have permanent status at the time of layoff shall be required to 
serve the remainder of any probationary period upon recall. 
 
When a vacancy exists and employees are to be recalled, notice of the opening(s) shall be sent to the 
mailing address as shown on the employee's last paycheck unless a more recent address has been 
furnished by the laid off/bumped employee.  To expedite recall, more than one employee may be 
notified of an opening. 
 
The employee shall have fourteen (14) calendar days to reply to City from the date of mailing of the 
recall notice.  If employees fail to respond within fourteen (14) calendar days of notice to the City, they 
shall lose all recall rights.  It is the responsibility of the employee who has been laid off to keep the City 
informed of their address and telephone number.  The City has no responsibility to attempt to trace an 
employee if notice of reinstatement is not delivered by the Post Office. 
 
Employees reinstated after layoff shall be treated as though they have been on leave of absence without 
pay in computing salary, vacation, sick leave and other benefits.  The right to reinstatement is 
contingent upon the ability of the employee to perform the essential functions of the position to which 
the employee is being returned. 
 
REEMPLOYMENT 
Any permanent employee, separated from a position through resignation and without fault of 
delinquency on their part, upon recommendation of the reemploying Department Head may be 
reemployed to the former position, or to another position in the same class, within two (2) years, 
provided there is an authorized vacancy and the employee meets the requirements for employment.  
Reemployed employees shall be subject to a probationary period, and upon the recommendation of the 
reemploying Department Head, may receive credit for former employment in the determination of the 
amount of vacation allowance, sick leave, other benefits and their salary step.   
 
DISCIPLINARY ACTION 
Employees who are safety personnel covered by the Police Officers’ Bill of Rights (POBR) shall continue 
to have those rights afforded them.    
 
The term "disciplinary action" shall include the following actions which may be taken by a Department 
Head: 
A. 
Letter of Reprimand (for employees covered by the POBR only) 
B. 
Suspension without pay up to thirty (30) calendar days; 
C. 
Salary reduction; 
D. 
Demotion; or 
E. 
Dismissal 
 
A reduction in hours or a change in schedule, scheduling for workload reasons, a change in work 
assignment, layoff, letter of reprimand, and performance evaluations shall not be considered as 
297 of 302

--- page 298 ---
discipline (unless otherwise noted above).   
 
Whenever a disciplinary action is proposed to be taken against a deputy director, he/she shall be 
notified in writing of the proposed disciplinary action at least five (5) working days in advance of the pre-
disciplinary (“Skelly”) hearing. “Working days” is defined as days on which City Hall is open for business.  
Such written notification shall include a statement of the proposed disciplinary action to be taken; a 
statement of the facts upon which the disciplinary action is based which  shall set forth clearly and with 
such particularity the charges against the employee so he/she can understand said charges; a statement 
indicating the cause for the disciplinary action pursuant to the Personnel Rules or other relevant City 
policies; and a statement describing any actions taken against the employee in the past. 
 
Whenever disciplinary action is taken against a deputy director, he/she shall be notified in writing of the 
action taken.   Such written notification shall include a statement of the disciplinary action taken; a 
statement of the facts upon which the disciplinary action is based, which shall set forth clearly and with 
such particularity the charges against the employee so he/she can understand said charges; a statement 
indicating the cause for the disciplinary action pursuant to the Personnel Rules or other relevant City 
policies; a statement describing any actions taken against the employee in the past; and a statement 
advising the employee that the written notice is to be placed in his/her official personnel file and that 
he/she has a right to appeal to the Personnel Board.  A Department Head may impose discipline 
immediately. 
 
APPEAL OF DISCIPLINARY ACTION 
A deputy director can appeal the receipt of disciplinary action to the Personnel Board by delivering a 
written notice of appeal to the Human Resources Department within ten (10) working days of the date 
the written notice of disciplinary action was served upon him/her.  In the event the deputy director fails 
to deliver a notice of appeal to the Human Resources Department within said ten (10) working day 
period, the disciplinary action shall become final, and the Deputy Director shall have no further right to 
appeal.    
 
The written notice of appeal filed with the Human Resources Department shall not be required to be in 
any particular format; however, it shall contain at least the following information: 
 
1.  
The name and address of the deputy director; 
2. 
The date of the disciplinary action and a statement to the effect that the deputy director appeals 
the disciplinary action; and 
3.  
The notice of appeal shall be dated and signed by the deputy director or by his/her representative. 
 
When the Human Resources Department receives a notice of appeal which complies with the 
requirements set forth herein, the Human Resources Director shall schedule the matter for hearing. For 
a Letter of Reprimand (for employees covered by the POBR only), the hearing is with the Department 
Head or his/her designee.  For suspension without pay, in-grade salary reduction, demotion, or 
dismissal, the hearing is scheduled at the next available regular meeting of the Personnel Board at least 
fifteen (15) working days after receipt of the notice of appeal.  
 
For Letters of Reprimand issued to employees covered by the POBR, the Department Head or his/her 
designee shall render a final decision concerning the appeal following the hearing, within ten (10) days 
after the matter is submitted.  The decision of the Department Head or his/her designee shall be final 
and conclusive. For suspension without pay, in-grade salary reduction, demotion, or dismissal, the 
Personnel Board shall render written findings and recommendations and final decisions concerning the 
appeal within ten (10) working days after the matter is submitted.  The decision of the Personnel Board 
shall be final and conclusive unless determined otherwise by a court of competent jurisdiction. 
 
298 of 302

--- page 299 ---
SAFETY SHOES 
The City shall provide a reimbursement of up to $200.00 every two years for one (1) pair of safety shoes 
for classifications approved for reimbursement by the department head as deemed necessary.  Said 
reimbursement shall be paid against official receipts for safety shoe expenditures. Safety shoes shall be 
defined by a classification’s standard or by the employee’s department head.  
 
 
 
299 of 302

--- page 300 ---
Consolidated City Manager, City Attorney, Department Head and Deputy Director Compensation Plan 
 
ATTACHMENT 1 
 
City Manager and City Attorney  
The salary for City Manager was effective August 21, 2023 based on City Council action taken on June 20, 2023. 
The salary for City Attorney was effective October 16, 2022February 4, 2024 based on City Council action taken 
on October 3, 2022February 5, 2024. 
 
TITLE 
HOURLY 
BI-WEEKLY 
MONTHLY 
ANNUAL 
CITY MANAGER 
$162.50 
$13,000.00 
$28,166.67 
$338,000.00 
CITY ATTORNEY 
$127.50137
.02 
$10,200.0010,96
1.54 
$22,100.0023,75
0.00 
$265,200.00285,0
00.00 
 
Salary is based on a 40-hour work week. 
 
Department Heads  
Effective October 29, 2023April 28, 2024, the City Manager shall establish salaries for department heads for 
their respective positions at a step within the monthly ranges indicated below.   
 
JOB 
COD
E 
TITLE 
STEPS 
HOURLY 
BI-WEEKLY 
MONTHLY 
ANNUAL 
1260 
ASST CITY 
MANAGER 
STEP 
1 
123.32 
9,865.73 
21,375.76 
256,509.10 
  
  
STEP 
2 
129.49 
10,359.02 
22,444.55 
269,334.56 
  
  
STEP 
3 
135.96 
10,876.97 
23,566.77 
282,801.28 
1140 
CHIEF OF 
POLICE 
STEP 
1 
141.29126.1
5 
11,303.3410,092.2
7 
24,490.5821,866.5
9 
293,887.01262,399.1
2 
  
STEP 
2 
148.36132.4
6 
11,868.5110,596.8
8 
25,715.1022,959.9
1 
308,581.25275,518.9
7 
  
  
STEP 
3 
155.77139.0
8 
12,461.9411,126.7
3 
27,000.8624,107.9
1 
324,010.28289,294.8
9 
1230 
CITY CLERK 
STEP 
1 
93.89 
7,511.11 
16,274.08 
195,288.92 
  
STEP 
2 
98.58 
7,886.66 
17,087.77 
205,053.27 
  
  
STEP 
3 
103.51 
8,281.00 
17,942.16 
215,305.96 
1210 
CITY 
LIBRARIAN 
STEP 
1 
105.90 
8,472.17 
18,356.36 
220,276.37 
  
STEP 
2 
111.20 
8,895.78 
19,274.18 
231,290.22 
  
  
STEP 
3 
116.76 
9,340.56 
20,237.89 
242,854.69 
1160 
DIR COMM 
DEVELOPMEN
T 
STEP 
1 
106.02 
8,481.29 
18,376.12 
220,513.49 
300 of 302

--- page 301 ---
STEP 
2 
111.32 
8,905.35 
19,294.93 
231,539.20 
  
  
STEP 
3 
116.88 
9,350.62 
20,259.68 
243,116.15 
1270 
DIR INFO 
TECHNOLOGY 
STEP 
1 
103.28 
8,262.23 
17,901.49 
214,817.87 
  
STEP 
2 
108.44 
8,675.33 
18,796.55 
225,558.66 
  
  
STEP 
3 
113.86 
9,109.10 
19,736.39 
236,836.71 
1250 
DIR PARKS & 
RECREATION 
STEP 
1 
106.02 
8,481.29 
18,376.12 
220,513.49 
  
STEP 
2 
111.32 
8,905.35 
19,294.93 
231,539.20 
  
  
STEP 
3 
116.88 
9,350.62 
20,259.68 
243,116.15 
1120 
DIR PUBLIC 
WORKS 
STEP 
1 
111.94 
8,955.56 
19,403.71 
232,844.48 
  
STEP 
2 
117.54 
9,403.33 
20,373.89 
244,486.70 
  
  
STEP 
3 
123.42 
9,873.50 
21,392.59 
256,711.11 
1220 
FINANCE 
DIRECTOR 
STEP 
1 
111.69 
8,935.25 
19,359.71 
232,316.58 
  
STEP 
2 
117.28 
9,382.01 
20,327.69 
243,932.34 
  
  
STEP 
3 
123.14 
9,851.12 
21,344.09 
256,129.04 
1180 
HUMAN 
RESOURCES 
DIR 
STEP 
1 
106.89103.2
8 
8,551.418,262.23 
18,528.0417,901.4
9 
222,336.50214,817.8
7 
  
STEP 
2 
112.24108.4
4 
8,978.978,675.33 
19,454.4318,796.5
5 
233,453.21225,558.6
6 
  
  
STEP 
3 
117.85113.8
6 
9,427.929,109.10 
20,427.1619,736.3
9 
245,125.99236,836.7
1 
 
Salary is based on a 40-hour work week. 
 
Deputy Directors 
The Department Head, with City Manager concurrence, has the authority to fix compensation for his/her 
respective Deputy Director(s) in the same manner the City Manager establishes salary for department heads.   A 
deputy director who disagrees with his/her placement within the range may discuss it with the City Manager.   
 
Effective March 5, 2023, the deputy directors of city departments shall receive monthly salaries for their 
respective positions at a step within the monthly ranges indicated below.   
 
Effective Date: 3/5/23 
301 of 302

--- page 302 ---
JOB 
CODE 
TITLE 
STEPS 
HOURLY 
BI-WEEKLY 
MONTHLY 
ANNUAL 
2237 
DEPUTY 
CITY 
LIBRARIAN 
STEP 1 
80.11 
6,409.08 
13,886.33 
166,635.96 
  
  
STEP 2 
84.12 
6,729.52 
14,580.63 
174,967.61 
  
  
STEP 3 
88.33 
7,066.00 
15,309.67 
183,716.09 
2135 
DEPUTY 
CDD 
DIRECTOR 
STEP 1 
92.19 
7,375.03 
15,979.23 
191,750.71 
  
  
STEP 2 
96.80 
7,743.77 
16,778.17 
201,338.10 
  
  
STEP 3 
101.64 
8,130.96 
17,617.09 
211,405.09 
2271 
DEPUTY 
DIRECTOR 
PARKS & 
REC 
STEP 1 
88.29 
7,063.56 
15,304.39 
183,652.69 
 
 
STEP 2 
92.71 
7,416.74 
16,069.61 
192,835.35 
 
 
STEP 3 
97.34 
7,787.58 
16,873.08 
202,477.02 
2117 
DEP DIR 
PUBLIC 
WORKS 
STEP 1 
90.94 
7,275.56 
15,763.72 
189,164.61 
  
  
STEP 2 
95.49 
7,639.34 
16,551.91 
198,622.95 
  
  
STEP 3 
100.27 
8,021.30 
17,379.49 
208,553.91 
2545 
DEPUTY 
POLICE 
CHIEF 
STEP 1 
114.39 
9,151.06 
19,827.30 
237,927.59 
  
  
STEP 2 
120.11 
9,608.61 
20,818.66 
249,823.90 
  
  
STEP 3 
126.11 
10,089.04 
21,859.59 
262,315.13 
2029 
DEPUTY 
DIRECTOR 
OF FINANCE 
STEP 1 
89.35 
7,148.20 
15,487.77 
185,853.29 
 
 
STEP 2 
93.82 
7,505.62 
16,262.17 
195,146.02 
 
 
STEP 3 
98.51 
7,880.89 
17,075.27 
204,903.26 
 
Salary is based on a 40-hour work week. 
 
 
302 of 302