Transparency Portal
Visit Flock
Monterey CA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Thu Jul 16 2026

OVERVIEW

Monterey CA PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Monterey CA PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Monterey CA PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

POLICIES

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race, Immigration

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Monterey CA PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
USAGE

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

37

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Monterey CA PD data.

Cal Fire
California State Parks
Carmel CA PD
Marina CA PD
Monterey County CA SO
Monterey County District Attorney's Office
Oakland CA PD
Pacific Grove CA PD
Palo Alto CA PD
Rohnert Park Department of Public Safety (CA)
Salinas CA PD
Seaside CA PD
Watsonville CA PD

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

California SVS, NCMEC Amber Alert

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

489,461

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

1,696

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

88
ADDITIONAL INFO

Monterey PD: ALPR Policy & Map

https://files.monterey.gov/Document-Center/Departments/Police/Inside-MPD/Policies-Procedures-Training/ALPR/MPD-433-ALPR-Policy.pdf

Monterey PD: Camera Map Locations

https://files.monterey.gov/Document-Center/Departments/Police/Inside-MPD/Policies-Procedures-Training/ALPR/ALPR-Cameras.pdf

Provided by Flock Safety