source: packet.pdf
sha256: e3581d450713db6ebfca0ea7bc560280f0b9c26194a26c4e08a06f9397bf0e60
pages: 445
ocr_pages: 26
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
July 19, 2021
7:00 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: July 19, 2021 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 819 3623 1836
Passcode: 433038
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CEREMONIAL
1.
Park and Recreation Month
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
2.
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meeting of June 7, 2021.
3.
Ordinance Adoption – “Property Maintenance” Code Amendment
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Section 7.14 “Property Maintenance” to adopt the
2021 International Property Maintenance Code and comply with the California Health and Safety Code.
4.
Downtown Landscape Maintenance Services – Agreement
Approve an agreement with Brightview Landscape Services for maintenance of Downtown area planters in the
amount of $112,840, and authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute the agreement in
substantially the form presented and to approve change orders totaling up to 10% of the amount of the
agreement.
5.
Community Development Department – Classification Update
1 of 445

--- page 2 ---
Adopt a Resolution to reallocate an Executive Assistant position to an Administrative Technician position in the
Community Development Department.
6.
Board and Commission – Appointment Subcommittee and Appointment to Community Relations Commission and
Planning Commission
Appoint Mayor Rodriguez and Council Member Goethals to the Senior Citizen Commission Appointment
Subcommittee, appoint Sheri Boles to the Community Relations Commission for a partial term ending June 10,
2022 and Adam Nugent to the Planning Commission for a term ending June 10, 2025.
7.
COVID-19 Update
Receive an update on operational impacts and other City efforts related to COVID-19, and confirm rules and
regulations issued by the City Manager acting as the Director of Emergency Services in response to declared
emergency.
8.
Bay Meadows Community Facilities District – Special Tax Levy Fiscal Year 2021-22
Adopt a Resolution to authorize the levy of special taxes for fiscal year 2021-22 for the Community Facilities
District No. 2008-1 (Bay Meadows).
9.
Bay Meadows Block 4 – Public Service Easement Summary Vacation
Adopt a Resolution to vacate a public service easement on Bay Meadows Phase II, No.2 Final Map, Block 4, in
substantially the form presented.
10.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Supply of Sodium Bisulfite – Contract
Award a contract with Univar USA Inc. for the supply of sodium bisulfite in the amount of $246,923 including sales
tax; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented.
11.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Supply of Ferric Chloride – Contract
Award a contract to Thatcher Company of California for the supply of ferric chloride in the amount of $153,940,
including sales tax; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form
presented.
12.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Supply of Sodium Hypochlorite – Contract
Award a contract to Olin Corporation for the supply of sodium hypochlorite in the amount of $259,755, including
sales tax; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented.
13.
Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package 3B – Agreement
Approve an agreement with WRECO for design services in the amount not to exceed $310,000; establish a
contingency reserve of $31,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in
substantially the form presented and approve amendments within the contingency amount.
14.
Fiber Optic Network Facilities – Agreement
Approve a Utility Equipment Agreement with Intermountain Infrastructure Group, LLC for the construction,
installation, maintenance, and operation of fiber optic network facilities within the public right-of-way and
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form attached.
15.
California Department of Transportation Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Program – Grant Funding and
Agreement
2 of 445

--- page 3 ---
Adopt a Resolution to approve the acceptance of grant funding with the California Department of Transportation
for the Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Program and authorize the City Manager to execute a funding
agreement and any necessary documents.
3 of 445

--- page 4 ---
16.
Natural Gas Line Replacement and Improvements – Agreement
Award an agreement to EPS, Inc. dba Express Plumbing for construction of the Natural Gas Line Replacement and
Improvements Project in an amount not to exceed $250,711; establish a contingency reserve in an amount of
$25,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented
and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
City Council action on the following public hearing(s) represents a final decision concluding all administrative proceedings. Judicial
review may be had only if a petition is filed with the Court not later than the 90th day following the date the decision is made. Judicial
review of environmental determinations may be subject to a time period for litigation as short as 30 days following the date the
decision is made.
17.
Wireless Telecommunications Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way – Amended Design Standards, Application
Requirements and Permit Fees
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Design Standards and Application Requirements, authorize the Director of
Public Works to make future revisions to the Design Standards, as necessary, to comply with applicable rules and
laws, and amend the Wireless Communications Facilities Permit fee in the Adopted Comprehensive Fee Schedule
for fiscal year 2021-22.
OLD BUSINESS
18.
Transition to Elections By-District – Updated Schedule
Adopt a Resolution to approve an updated schedule to transition to district-based elections and authorize staff to
make adjustments, as needed, to the schedule.
19.
Downtown Surplus Properties – Selection of Development Team
Direct staff to negotiate an Exclusive Negotiating Agreement with the Prometheus/Harvest Properties/Alta
Housing development team to explore the development of affordable housing on the City-owned parking lot
located at East 4th Avenue and South Railroad Avenue (Talbot’s parking lot) and reject the other proposals
submitted for East 4th Avenue and South Railroad and for the 308 East 5th Avenue (Ravioli parking lot) sites.
NEW BUSINESS
20.
Report on Legislative Committee Consideration of Pending State Legislation
Receive staff report and provide direction on whether letters of support/opposition should be submitted on
California Senate and Assembly bills brought forward by the Legislative Committee.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4 of 445

--- page 5 ---
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and
you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and
provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
5 of 445

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4257-10
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
July 19, 2021 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meeting of June 7, 2021.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Special Meeting Minutes 6/7/21
Att 2 – Regular Meeting Minutes 6/7/21
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
6 of 445

--- page 7 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 06/07/2021
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Diane Papan
Amourence Lee
Joe Goethals
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes - REVISED
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Monday, June 7, 2021
Remote 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER - This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency.
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
Remote:    Mayor Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor Bonilla, Council Members: Papan, Lee, and Goethals
CEREMONIAL
1.
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer (LGBTQ) “Pride Month”
CONSENT CALENDAR
The following items, 2 through 20 were considered to be routine by the City Council. After the titles of the items were 
read by the City Clerk, the public was invited to comment and there were no speakers. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Goethals, Seconded: Lee
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Lee, Papan and Goethals
Noes: 
None
The City Clerk gave the oath of office to Park & Recreation Commissioner Sarah Fields.
2.
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meeting of May 17, 2021.
3.
Ordinance Adoption – Electronic Campaign Statement Filing Requirement Amendment
Adopt an uncodified ordinance to update the existing ordinance requiring electronic filing of campaign statements.
Enactment:  Ordinance No. 2021-15
4.
Ordinance Introduction – “Claims for Tax Refunds” Chapter Amendments Including Electronic Claims Filing
Introduce an Ordinance to amend Municipal Code Chapter 3.35 "Claims for Tax Refunds" to provide for other 
forms of claims and to authorize the electronic filing of claims. 
5.
Senior Transportation “Get Around” Program – Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to find that calling for bids is impracticable, unavailing, or impossible and award an agreement 
to Serra Yellow Cab, Inc. for the Get Around Senior Transportation Project up to the amount of $150,000 for fiscal 
year 2021-22, with an option for the City to extend for an additional year, and authorize the Director of Parks and 
Recreation to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
7 of 445

--- page 8 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 06/07/2021
Page 2
Enactment:  Resolution No. 46 (2021)
6.
Senior Catered Lunch Services Program – Agreement 
Approve an agreement with Corporate Cuisine for senior catered lunch services in the amount of $100,000; 
establish a contingency of $10,000; and authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute the agreement 
in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
7.
Landscape Maintenance Services: Medians, Islands, and Right of Ways - Agreement 
Approve an agreement with Loral Landscaping, Inc. for landscape maintenance of medians, islands, and right of 
ways located within the city limits in the amount of $223,600 for fiscal year 2021-22, with the option for three 
additional one-year extensions; establish a contingency of $17,000; and authorize the Director of Parks and 
Recreation to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the 
contingency amount. 
8.
Animal Control Services – Agreement
Approve an agreement with the County of San Mateo for continued provision of animal control services for a five-
year term commencing July 1, 2021, with an estimated cost of $871,467 for the first year and cost to be 
recalculated annually for subsequent years, and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in 
substantially the form presented. 
9.
Police Department Patrol Vehicles – Purchase and Build-out Contracts
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing process and approve the purchase contract with National 
Auto Fleet Group for the purchase of nine (9) 2021 Ford Hybrid Police Interceptor Utility vehicles in the amount of 
$475,534.44 and to adopt the findings for an alternative bidding process and approve an agreement with Priority 1 
Public Safety for the purchase and installation of public safety equipment in the amount of $144,336.33; establish 
a contingency reserve in the amount of $62,000.00; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the 
purchase contract and agreement for services in substantially the form presented and issue any change orders as 
allowed by the agreements and within the contingency amount. 
Enactment:  Resolution No. 47 (2021)
10.
Fiscal Year 2020-21 Budget Appropriation - Police Department 
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $200,000 to the 2020-21 Police Department operating budget, which will be 
fully offset by reimbursement revenue.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 48 (2021)
11.
Fiscal Year 2021-22 General Obligation Bond – Tax Rate Levy
Adopt a Resolution to levy the property tax rate of $0.0064 per $100 of assessed value (equates to $6.40 per 
$100,000 assessed value) for the voter-approved General Obligation Bond annual debt service payment. 
Enactment:  Resolution No. 49 (2021)
12.
Citation Processing Services and Traffic/Moving Citation Equipment Purchase – Agreement 
Approve an agreement with Turbo Data Systems, Inc. for citation processing, payment, and adjudication services 
for a term beginning July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2026; purchase 30 nFORCER-II Scan traffic/moving citation units 
for a total cost of $102,000 plus $80 per unit per month for support/maintenance/communications fee; and 
authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
8 of 445

--- page 9 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 06/07/2021
Page 3
13.
25th Avenue Grade Separation Project and Delaware Street Relief Sewer Project – Interagency Amendment and 
Agreements
Approve an Amendment to the Cooperative Agreement, a License Agreement in the amount of $16,500, and a 
Service Agreement in the estimated amount of $133,049 between the Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board, San 
Mateo County Transit District, and the City of San Mateo; and authorize the Mayor to execute the amendment and 
agreements in substantially the form presented. 
14.
Clean Water Program Labor Compliance Consultants – Amendments 
Approve amendments to agreements with Silveira Consulting and TSG Enterprises, Inc. DBA The Solis Group for 
on-call labor compliance services for the Clean Water Program in an amount not to exceed $200,000 each, for a 
total amount of $400,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreements in substantially 
the form presented.
15.
Sale of City-Owned Real Property Adjacent to Private Property and Abutting the Marina Lagoon 
Adopt a Resolution to authorize the sale of real property adjacent to private property on Los Prados Street and 
Lago Street, finding that the real property transfers serve the public convenience and necessity, and authorize the 
execution of a grant deed for the City-owned portion of Lot 16, Block 1 of the Los Prados Segundos Subdivision and 
a grant deed for the City-owned portion of Lot 17, Block 1 of the Los Prados Primeros Subdivision, by the Mayor in 
substantially the form presented. 
Enactment:  Resolution No. 50 (2021)
16.
Downtown Affordable Housing Site Planning-Related Costs – Fund Appropriation
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $488,000 from the Construction Services Fund to planning application projects 
for the Downtown Affordable Housing Sites project, located at 480 East Fourth Avenue known as Kiku Crossing, to 
cover planning-related costs. 
Enactment:  Resolution No. 51 (2021)
17.
Downtown Parking Equipment Network Hosting and Materials – Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to approve an exception to the City’s competitive bidding requirement and approve an 
agreement with IPS Group, Inc. for parking equipment network hosting and materials in the amount of $300,000 
and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented. 
Enactment:  Resolution No. 52 (2021)
18.
Downtown Business Improvement Area – Resolution of Intent for Annual Renewal
Accept the fiscal year 2020-21 Downtown San Mateo Association Annual Report; adopt a Resolution of Intent to 
Levy the Annual Assessments for the Downtown Business Improvement Area; and set a public hearing for the June 
21, 2021 City Council meeting to consider levying the annual assessment. 
Enactment:  Resolution No. 53 (2021)
19.
Below Market Rental Rates, Sales Prices and Unit Community Priorities – 2021 Revisions
Adopt a Resolution to establish 2021 maximum rental rates and sales prices for affordable housing as required by 
the City of San Mateo's Below Market Rate (BMR) housing program; and establish Community Priority for units 
containing 3 or more bedrooms, which may allow a developer to provide fewer BMR units in exchange for units 
with more bedrooms as long as all other BMR program provisions are followed. 
Enactment:  Resolution No. 54 (2021)
9 of 445

--- page 10 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 06/07/2021
Page 4
20.
Park and Recreation Commission and Community Relations Commission – Appointment Subcommittee 
Recommendations
At the recommendation of the Appointment Subcommittees: Appoint Sarah Fields to the Park and Recreation 
Commission for a full four-year term ending June 10, 2025 and appoint Meghan Crowell to the Community 
Relations Commission for a full four-year term ending June 10, 2025.
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Vince DeFriese proposed bingo ordinance changes and George spoke to Recycling Center Convenience Zones issues.
PUBLIC HEARING 
21.
Proposed 2021-22 Budget and 2021-26 Capital Improvement Program
Rich Lee, Finance Director, presented information about the proposed budget for 2021-22 and the 2021-26 Capital 
Improvement Program. Council asked questions of staff.  Public Comment – there were no speakers.
OLD BUSINESS
22.
Ordinance Introduction – “Short-Term Rentals” Amendment
Denise Garcia, Management Analyst, presented information clarifying the intent of the Short Term Rentals (STR) 
ordinance amendment with regard to Accessory Dwelling Units, terminology used in the ordinance and that 
annual limits only pertain to STR properties when a host is not on site. Council had no questions. Public Comment 
– there were no speakers.
Motion to Introduce an Ordinance to amend Municipal Code Chapter 5.66 “Short Term Rentals” to clarify that only 
properties where the host is not present have an annual limit on the number of days they can be rented, that STR 
properties do not need to be the owner’s primary residence, and that accessory dwelling units cannot be used for 
short-term rentals. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Bonilla
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Lee, Papan and Goethals
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Ordinance No. 2021-17
23.
COVID-19 Update
Drew Corbett, City Manager, presented operational updates on the City’s response to the ongoing state of 
emergency noting that City Hall will resume normal operations to the public on June 15, 2021; council meetings 
will continue to be remote for the time being; and he highlighted Park and Recreation and Library operations 
services being added for return to normal operations . Council asked questions of staff.  Public Comment – there 
were no speakers.  Council by consensus confirmed the actions of the City Manager for the phased return to 
normal plans for Parks and Recreation, Library and City Hall.
NEW BUSINESS
24.
Development Impact Fee Study – Report Review
Brian Alexander, Sr. Management Analyst, and Khushboo Hussain, Sr. Manager, Matrix Consulting Group 
presented an overview of the Development Impact and In-Lieu Fee studies outlining the methodology used in the 
10 of 445

--- page 11 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 06/07/2021
Page 5
study, legal justification, overview of in-lieu fees and development impact fees, and provided a fee comparison. 
Council asked questions of staff.
Public Comment - Ken Busch, asked about his 189 apartment project that got derailed from the Covid shut down 
and the significant hit these new fees would be on the project itself. Preston O’Connell – appreciated the 
cooperation of the City staff grandfathering in new fees for already existing projects.
Guidance Requested from Council:  Is the Council comfortable with the proposed structural changes to the Park 
Impact/In-Lieu, Childcare Impact, and Sewer Fees? Does the Council wish to subsidize any of the fees presented 
tonight either to achieve a specific policy aim or to maintain a fee structure aligned with peer jurisdictions?  When 
would the Council like any changes to go into effect, and how should they apply to projects currently in the 
pipeline? Does the Council have any additional direction or concerns with the information presented in the nexus 
studies?
Council commented they are comfortable with consolidating proposed structural changes; exploring subsidizing 
affordable housing with regard to development impact fees; and having changes to go into effect as soon as 
possible except for those projects that are already in the pipeline – pre-application phase and beyond. Council also 
expressed how interesting the study was and thanked them for all the great work.
25.
Ordinance Introduction – Wireless Telecommunications Facilities in the Public Right of Way
Tracy Scramaglia, Sr. Engineer, presented information on the timing of the adoption and implementation and 
required changes of the Wireless Telecommunications Facilities ordinance since originally adopted in June 2018.  
She provided an overview of the key objectives of the code and standards update. Council asked questions of staff.
Public comment - Maureen Cruzen, Verizon – thanked staff and staff’s effort to balance the legal issues.
Council asked additional questions. 
Motion to Introduce an Ordinance to amend Chapter 17.10, “Wireless Communication Facilities in the Public Right-
of-Way”, to the San Mateo Municipal Code Title 17 “Streets and Sidewalks” and review the proposed Design and 
Engineering Standards and Application Requirements. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Lee
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Lee, Papan and Goethals
Noes: 
None
26.
Citywide Communications – Informational Update
Samantha Weigel, Communications Manager, presented an overview and update of the City’s communication 
goals and priorities. She reviewed survey results from the 2020 Community Survey with regard to 
communications. Council asked questions of staff and expressed appreciation. 
Public Comment – George recommended sub reddit.  Drew stated communication notices are phenomenal, Nixle, 
email, notice on community meetings only being pushed out on social media those not on social media miss out. 
27.
2020 Climate Action Plan – Annual Progress Report
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst, provided the report updating actions taken to be in compliance with the 
Climate Action Plan and she highlighted achievements and initiatives undertaken.  There were no questions and no 
speakers.  Council commended the great work.
11 of 445

--- page 12 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 06/07/2021
Page 6
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Council Member Lee discussed consideration of a letter to State Officials requesting an extension of the current 
residential eviction moratorium through calendar year 2021 as part of the legislation approving the FY 2021/22 State 
Budget.  Council Member Bonilla suggested a mailer be sent to renters informing of the tools available to help.  Council 
was in favor of tasking staff with developing strategy recommendations to address the looming potential of evictions. 
ADJOURNMENT – Following a moment of silence, the meeting adjourned at 10:46 pm in honor of Dr. James L. 
Hutchinson’s, who passed away at age 98, while still serving the San Mateo community as a medical doctor, and he was 
noted for his community leadership, empathy and for being the first black doctor in San Mateo County.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                      
                                                           
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor                                                   
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
12 of 445

--- page 13 ---
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Diane Papan
Amourence Lee
Joe Goethals
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Monday, June 7, 2021
Remote 5:30 PM
Special Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency.
Roll Call
Remote:    Mayor Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor Bonilla, Council Members: Papan, Lee and Goethals 
CLOSED SESSION 
Following the opportunity for public comment, there were no speakers, the City Council convened into Closed Session to 
consider:
1.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Anticipated Litigation
Significant exposure to litigation pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 54956.9:  one potential case.
Govt. Code § 54956.9(d)(2): “[a] point has been reached where, in the opinion of the legislative body of the local 
agency on the advice of its legal counsel, based on existing facts and circumstances, there is a significant exposure to 
litigation against the local agency.
ADJOURNMENT – The meeting adjourned at 6:50 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                    
  
                                                           
Eric Rodriguez Mayor
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
13 of 445

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4308-02
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
July 19, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Ordinance Adoption – “Property Maintenance” Code Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Section 7.14 “Property Maintenance” to adopt the 2021 
International Property Maintenance Code and comply with the California Health and Safety Code.
BACKGROUND:
Ordinance Introduction date: June 21, 2021
NOTICE PROVIDED
All noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Christine Civiletti, Code Enforcement Manager
cciviletti@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7154
14 of 445

--- page 15 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
AMENDING TITLE 7, CHAPTER 7.14 OF THE SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE “PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE”
WHEREAS, the International Code Council (ICC), an internationally recognized association of 
professionals, maintains, amends, and updates elective model codes and standards used by local jurisdictions 
related to building design, construction, and compliance processes; and
WHEREAS, the ICC model codes and standards include an International Property Maintenance Code; and
WHEREAS, the City utilizes the International Property Maintenance Code as a basis for its local property 
maintenance code as codified in Title 7, Chapter 7.14; and
WHEREAS, the City reviews the ICC model codes every three years for amendments; and
WHEREAS, the City’s wishes to adopt the 2021 International Property Maintenance Code with local 
amendments.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 7.14.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
7.14.010 Adoption
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Property Maintenance Code" and will be referred 
to in this chapter as "this code."
(a) The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety, and welfare in both existing 
residential and nonresidential buildings, structures, and premises within the City.
(b) The 2021 edition of the International Property Maintenance Code as published by the International 
Code Council is adopted with amendments as listed below as the rules, regulations, and standards as to all 
matters contained therein.
(c) A copy of this code shall be maintained on file in the office of the City Clerk.
Section 2. Section 7.14.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
7.14.020 Scope and Administration
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration is amended as follows:
(a) Section 102.8.1 Conflicts is amended as follows:
Where conflicts occur between provision of this code and the referenced standards, the provisions of 
this code shall apply. Where conflicts occur between either this code or the referenced standards and 
15 of 445

--- page 16 ---
California Building Standards Code, as adopted by the City in Title 23 Buildings and Construction of the 
municipal code, the provisions of Title 23 shall apply.
(b) Section 103.1 Creation of agency is amended as follows:
The community development director, or their designees, shall be known as the code official.
(c) Section 105.1 General is amended as follows:
The code official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this code, as well as the 
State Housing Law as contained in Part 1.5 of Division 13 of the Health and Safety Code. The code official 
shall have the authority to render interpretations of this code and to adopt policies and procedures in 
order to clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations, policies, and procedures shall be in 
compliance with the intent and purpose of this code. Such policy and procedures shall not have the 
effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in this code.
(d) Section 107 Means of Appeal is not adopted: 
Appeals of administrative citations or compliance orders of the code official issued under this code shall 
be conducted in accordance with Chapter 1.10 Administrative Citations or Chapter 1.14 Administrative 
Compliance Orders
(e) Section 109.1 Unlawful acts is amended as follows:
It is unlawful and a public nuisance for any person, firm or corporation to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, 
repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any premises, 
building, structure, building service equipment in violation of this code or Title 23, or in a substandard 
condition; or cause or permit the same to be done.
(f) Section 110.4 Failure to comply is amended as follows:
Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a stop work order, except such 
work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable for 
penalties in accordance with Chapter 1.04 General Penalty.
(g) Section 111.1 Unsafe conditions is amended as follows:
When a premises, building, structure, or equipment is found by the code official based on a 
determination by the building official to be unsafe, or when a structure is found unfit for human 
occupancy, or is found unlawful, such structure shall be posted in accordance with this section and 
declared to be a public nuisance and the violations shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition 
or removal pursuant to the applicable provisions of the adopted California Standards Building Code and 
this code where applicable.
(h) Section 111.4 Unlawful structure is amended as follows:
16 of 445

--- page 17 ---
An unlawful structure is one found in whole or in part to be occupied by more persons than permitted 
under this code, or was erected, altered, occupied or maintained contrary to law; or one that is partially 
constructed, reconstructed or demolished, and such work is abandoned. Work is deemed abandoned if 
there is no valid building or demolition permit.
(i) Section 111.7 Placarding is amended as follows:
When the code official determines a structure, equipment or premise has been erected, constructed, 
enlarged, altered, repaired, moved, improved, removed, damaged, converted or demolished, equipped, 
used, occupied or maintained in violation of the adopted building codes and/or this code and/or the 
structure, equipment or premise constitutes a danger to the life, limb, property or safety of the public or 
the occupants, the code official shall post a placard on the structure, equipment or premise in a 
conspicuous place in or about the affected structure, equipment or premise. The placard shall clearly 
state the code official's order regarding the structure, equipment or premise, and specify the conditions 
which necessitated the posting. Furthermore, the placard shall direct the premise owner/ manager to 
contact building department for necessary approvals/ permits/ inspections where applicable. (model 
code text removed in its entirety)
(j) Section 111.7.1 Placard removal is amended as follows:
The code official shall remove the placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the placarding 
action was based has been eliminated. Any person who defaces or removes a placard without the 
approval of the code official shall be subject to the penalties provided by this code and applicable state 
law.
(k) Section 111.8 Prohibited occupancy is amended as follows:
It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, owner's authorized agent, or other person responsible for the 
premise to occupy or allow to be occupied a placarded structure or premise or operate placarded 
equipment in violation of the code official's posted order.
(l) Section 112.6 Hearing is amended as follows:
Any person ordered to take emergency measures shall comply with such order forthwith. Any affected 
person shall thereafter, upon petition directed to the Community Relations Commission, be afforded an 
appeal hearing as prescribed in Section 1.10.060.
Section 3. Section 7.14.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
Chapter 2 Section 202 Definitions is amended as follows:
(a) Inoperable Motor Vehicle is amended as follows:
Inoperative motor vehicle is defined in section 7.16.041 of the municipal code.
17 of 445

--- page 18 ---
(b) Substandard Building is added as follows:
A substandard building is any building or portion thereof, or the premises on which the same is located, 
in which there exists any of the conditions listed in the rules and regulations of the State Housing Law, 
as codified in section 17920.3 of the Health and Safety Code.
(c) Temporary is added as follows:
Temporary shall mean buildings, facilities, or structures intended for use at one location for not more 
than 180 days or as approved by the building official for the purpose of this code only.
(d) Weeds is added as follows:
Weeds is defined in section 7.20.020 of the municipal code.
Section 4. Section 7.14.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
Chapter 3 General Requirements is amended as follows:
(a) Section 302.1 Sanitation is amended as follows:
The property owner is responsible for ensuring the property exterior and premises is maintained in a 
clean, safe and sanitary condition. Such owner or authorized agent shall remain liable for violations 
thereof regardless of any contract or agreement with any third party regarding such property. The 
occupant may also be held jointly and severally liable for causing or contributing violations of this 
section.
(b) Section 302.2 Grading and drainage is amended as follows:
All premises shall be graded and maintained in accordance with Title 23 Building and Construction, to 
prevent the erosion of soil and prevent the accumulation of stagnant water thereon, or within any 
structure located thereon. Exception: Approved retention areas and reservoirs.
(c) Section 302.4 Weeds is amended as follows:
No owner, authorized agent, lessee or occupant or other person having charge or control of any 
building, lot or premises within the city shall permit weeds exceeding twelve inches in height to remain 
or accumulate upon such premises or upon public sidewalks or streets or alleys between such premises 
and the centerline of any public street or alley. All noxious weeds shall be prohibited.
Upon failure of the owner or agent having charge of a property to cut and destroy weeds after service of 
a notice of violation, they shall be subject to citation, administrative enforcement, or other means of 
enforcement prescribed by the municipal code or state law. Upon failure to comply with the notice of 
violation, any duly authorized employee of the city or contractor hired by the city shall be authorized to 
18 of 445

--- page 19 ---
enter upon the property in violation and cut and destroy the weeds growing thereon, and the costs of 
such removal shall be paid by the owner or authorized agent responsible for the property.
(d) Section 303 Swimming Pools, Spas, and Hot Tubs is not adopted.
(e) Section 304.3 Premises identification is not adopted.
(f) Section 304.14 Insect screens is amended as follows:
Every door, window and other outside opening required for ventilation of habitable rooms, food 
preparation areas, food service areas or any areas where products to be included or utilized in food for 
human consumption are processed, manufactured, packaged or stored shall be supplied with approved 
tightly fitting screens of minimum 16 mesh per inch (16 mesh per 25mm), and every screen door used 
for insect control shall have a self-closing in good working condition.
Exception: Screens shall not be required where other approved means, such as air curtains or insect 
repellent fans, are employed.
(g) Section 304.15 Doors is amended as follows:
All exterior doors, door assemblies including weather stripping, thresholds and hardware shall be 
maintained in good condition. Locks at all entrances to dwelling units and sleeping units shall tightly 
secure the door.
(h) Section 304.16 Basement hatchways is amended as follows:
Basement hatchways and under-floor access doors and ventilation openings shall be maintained to 
prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface drainage water. Doors shall be tight fitting and 
ventilation openings shall be properly screened with corrosion-resistant wire mesh having openings not 
exceeding 1/4 inch in any dimension or alternate approved materials pursuant to the adopted California 
Building Standards Code.
(i) Section 309 Pest Elimination is amended as follows:
If pest infestation, determined by a licensed pest control professional, is found in the habitable space 
the owner of the structure shall promptly eliminate the infestation by an approved process that will not 
be injurious to human health. After pest elimination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent 
reinfestation.  
If reinfestation is determined by a licensed pest control professional to be caused by failure of an 
occupant to prevent such infestation in the area occupied, the occupant and owner shall be responsible 
for pest elimination.
(j) 309.3 Single occupant is amended as follows:
19 of 445

--- page 20 ---
The occupant of a one-family dwelling or of a single- tenant nonresidential structure, who has occupied 
the structure for two (2) years or more, shall be responsible for pest elimination on the premises.
(k) 309.4 Multiple occupancy 
The owner of a structure containing four (4) or more dwelling units, a multiple occupancy, a rooming 
house or a nonresidential structure shall be responsible for pest elimination in the public or shared 
areas of the structure and exterior property. 
The Code Official shall require the property owner to provide a report and remediation plan from a 
licensed pest control professional. 
(l) 309.5 Occupant Is not adopted. 
Section 5. Section 7.14.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
Chapter 5 Plumbing Facilities and Fixture Requirements is amended as follows:
(a) Section 505.4 Water heating facilities is amended as follows:
Water heating facilities shall be properly installed, maintained and capable of providing an adequate 
amount of water to be drawn at every required sink, lavatory, bathtub, shower and laundry facility at a 
minimum temperature of 110° F (43°C). A gas-burning water heater shall not be located in any 
bathroom, toilet room, bedroom or other occupied room normally kept closed, unless the installation 
complies with Title 23 Buildings and Construction. An approved combination temperature and pressure-
relief valve discharge pipe shall be properly installed and maintained on water heaters.
Section 6. Section 7.14.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
Chapter 6 Mechanical and Electrical Requirements is amended as follows:
(a) Section 602.2 Residential occupancies is amended as follows:
Dwellings shall be provided with heating facilities in accordance with Title 23 Buildings and Construction. 
Cooking appliances, fireplaces, and portable space heaters shall not be used as a means to provide 
required heating.
(b) Section 602.3 Heat Supply is amended as follows:
Every owner and operator of any building who rents, leases or lets one or more dwelling units or 
sleeping units on terms, either expressed or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall 
supply heat in accordance with Title 23 Buildings and Construction.
(c) Section 604.3 Electrical system hazards is amended as follows:
20 of 445

--- page 21 ---
Where it is found by the code official that the electrical system in a structure constitutes a hazard to the 
occupants or the structure by reason of inadequate service, improper fusing, insufficient receptacle and 
lighting outlets, improper wiring or installation including the improper use of extension cords as 
permanent wiring, deterioration or damage, or for similar reasons, the code official shall require the 
defects to be corrected to eliminate the hazard.
Section 7. Section 7.14.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
Chapter 7 Fire Safety Requirements is amended as follows:
(a) Section 702.1 General is amended as follows:
A safe, continuous and unobstructed path of travel shall be provided from any point in a building or 
structure to the public way. Means of egress shall comply with Title 23 Buildings and Construction.
(b) Appendix B Means of Appeal is not adopted.
Appeals of administrative citations or compliance orders of the code official issued under this code shall 
be conducted in accordance with Chapter 1.10 Administrative Citations or Chapter 1.14 Administrative 
Compliance Orders.
Section 8. Environmental Determination. This item is exempt from environmental review in that amending the 
Property Maintenance Code is a continuing administrative activity under section 15378(b)(2), of the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines.
Section 9. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 10. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 11. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
21 of 445

--- page 22 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4877
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
July 19, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Downtown Landscape Maintenance Services – Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with Brightview Landscape Services for maintenance of Downtown area planters in the amount of 
$112,840, and authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
presented and to approve change orders totaling up to 10% of the amount of the agreement.
BACKGROUND:
In pursuit of a clean, verdant, and pleasant Downtown area, the Landscape Resources Division (Division) contracts the 
cultivation, irrigation, and maintenance of more than 100 pots and planters, including replacement with seasonal flowers 
four times per year. The Division solicited bids via the City's Bid Posting website and an advertisement in the local 
newspaper, and two bidders responded. The low bidder was Brightview Landscape Services at $112,840 for a two-year 
contract. The only other bidder, Northern Landscape Management, bid $236,814. Brightview has maintained the 
Downtown area satisfactorily for the past four years. Based on their past work performance and the fact that they are the 
low bidder, the Division is recommending Brightview be awarded the agreement.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds for this work in the Downtown Facilities Maintenance budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21065, entry into this agreement is not a project subject to CEQA 
because it can be seen with certainty that the landscape maintenance work will not impact the environment.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement 
STAFF CONTACT
Matthew Fried, Managing Arborist
mfried@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7422
22 of 445

--- page 23 ---
LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE SERVICES FOR: 
PLANTER AREAS IN THE DOWNTOWN AREA 
FOR PUBLIC SERVICES, CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State 
of California, by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation, hereinafter 
called "City", and __BRIGHTVIEW LANDSCAPE SERVICES, (a California corporation,) 
hereinafter called "Proposer", as of the ___ day of ____________, 2021. 
 
 
R E C I T A L S: 
 
 
(a) City has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize contracting of landscape maintenance 
services and execution of this contract. 
 
 
(b) A notice was duly published for proposals for the contract for the improvement hereinafter 
described. 
 
 
(c) After notice duly given, on the date hereof, the City awarded the contract for landscape 
maintenance services hereinafter described to Proposer. 
 
 
IT IS AGREED, as follows: 
 
1. 
Scope of Work.  Proposer shall perform the work according to the Specification Book therefore 
entitled: 
“Landscape Maintenance Services For: 
Planter Areas in the Downtown Area” 
 
2. 
Contract Price.  City shall pay, the Proposer shall accept, in full payment for the work above 
agreed to be done the sum of $__112,840.00______ for July 20th 2021-June 30th 2023.  The Parks 
and Recreation Director can execute three (3) one year extensions.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Said price is determined by the prices contained in Proposer's proposal, and shall be paid 
as described in the Specification Book.  In the event work is performed or materials furnished in 
addition to or a reduction of those set forth in Proposer's proposal and the specifications herein, such 
work and materials will be paid for as described in the Specification Book. 
 
 
3.  The Contract Documents.  The complete contract consists of the following documents: This 
Agreement; the Notice Inviting Sealed Proposals; the Accepted Proposal; the Specification Book 
which includes the General Provisions, Special Provisions and Contract Drawings, Addendum 
Number       0        issued to the Specification Book, Landscape Maintenance Services. 
 
 
 
All rights and obligations of City and Proposer are fully set forth and described in the 
contract documents. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C14B271C-A90C-480E-9B40-0B5E48990F42
23 of 445

--- page 24 ---
All of the above-named documents are intended to cooperate, so that any work called for 
in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the same as if mentioned in all 
said documents.  The documents comprising the complete contract will hereinafter be referred to as 
"the contract documents".  In the event of any variation or discrepancy between any portion of this 
agreement and any portion of the other contract documents, this agreement shall prevail.  The 
precedence of the remaining contract documents will be as specified in the Specification Book. 
 
 
4.  Schedule.  All work shall be performed in accordance with the schedule provided pursuant 
to the Specification Book. 
 
 
5.  Payment.  The awarded contractor will be paid monthly 100% (1/12 of yearly amount) of 
the value of work satisfactorily completed and accepted by the City, including any extras, if any.  Each 
monthly payment will be made within fifteen (15) days after approval by the Parks & Recreation 
Department of the Proposer’s invoice which must include 1) list of work performed for the previous 
month, 2) an irrigation schedule for the next month, 3) an irrigation report of the previous month’s 
work performed and 4) the previous month’s pesticide use report to be submitted in order for the 
processing of payment. 
 
 
6. 
Insurance.  The Proposer shall provide and maintain: 
 
 
A.  Commercial General Liability Insurance, occurrence form, with a limit of not less than 
$2,000,000 each occurrence.  If such insurance contains a general aggregate limit, it shall apply 
separately to this Agreement or be no less than two (2) times the occurrence limit. 
 
B.  Automobile Liability Insurance, occurrence form, with a limit of not less than $1,000,000 
each occurrence.  Such insurance shall include coverage for owned, hired, and non-owned 
automobiles. 
 
 
 
C.  Workers Compensation in at least the minimum statutory limits. 
 
 
D.  General Provisions for all insurance.  All insurance shall: 
 
1. 
Include the City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents 
as additional insureds with respect to this Agreement and the performance of services in 
this Agreement.  The coverage shall contain no special limitations on the scope of its 
protection to the above-designated insured. 
  
2.  Be primary with respect to any insurance or self-insurance programs of City, its elected 
and appointed officials, employees, and agents. 
  
 
  
3.  Be evidenced, prior to commencement of services, by properly executed policy 
endorsements in addition to a certificate of insurance. 
  
 
  
4.  No changes in insurance may be made without the written approval of the City 
Attorney's office. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C14B271C-A90C-480E-9B40-0B5E48990F42
24 of 445

--- page 25 ---
7. 
Hold Harmless and Indemnity Provision.  Proposer agrees (1) to hold harmless and 
indemnify City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents  from and 
against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising from performance of this 
contract, including claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense caused or claimed to be caused by 
passive negligence of City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees and agents  
and (2) to defend City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees and agents  there 
against; provided, however that this provision does not apply to claims, loss, liability, damage or 
expense arising from (a) the sole negligence or willful misconduct of City of San Mateo or (b) the 
active negligence of City of San Mateo; further provided, that this provision shall not affect the validity 
of any insurance contract, workers compensation or agreement issued by an admitted insurer as defined 
by the Insurance Code. 
 
8. 
Attorney Fees.  Attorney fees in amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and in total 
amount not exceeding $5,000 shall be recoverable as costs (that is, by the filing of a cost bill) by 
prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this contract.  The above $5,000 
limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, 
and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals or actions.  It is the intent that neither party 
to this contract shall have to pay the other more than $5,000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, 
or actions, to enforce the provisions of this contract.  The parties expect and hope there will be no 
litigation and that any differences will be resolved amicably. 
 
 
9.  Mediation.  Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator 
shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each 
submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the California 
State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be 
selected by a "blindfolded" process. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until the parties but not more than 60 days 
reach agreement, unless the parties extend the maximum time. 
 
 
10.  Provisions Cumulative.  The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition 
to and not in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to City. 
 
 
11.  Notices.  All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified 
mail, postage prepaid. Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed as follows: 
 
 
 
Director of Parks and Recreation 
 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
 
 
 
330 W 20th Avenue 
 
 
 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
 
 
 
Notices required to be given to Proposer shall be addressed as appears in the signature 
block below. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C14B271C-A90C-480E-9B40-0B5E48990F42
25 of 445

--- page 26 ---
12.  Interpretation.  As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes 
the plural and vice versa. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement has been duly executed by the parties hereinabove named, 
as of the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
 BRIGHTVIEW LANDSCAPE SERVICES, 
a municipal corporation 
 a California corporation 
             
 
 
__________________________                                  __________________________ 
SHEILA CANZIAN              
 FRED FREUND 
DIRECTOR OF PARKS & RECREATION 
 SENIOR VP 
 
 
 
 
      
 NOR CAL REGION  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 __________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BRANDON STEENE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 VP, GENERAL MANAGER 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SAN FRANCISCO MARKET 
 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
___________________________ 
GABRIELLE WHELAN, ASSISTANT CITY ATTORNEY                                    
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C14B271C-A90C-480E-9B40-0B5E48990F42
26 of 445

--- page 27 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4838
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
July 19, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Community Development Department – Classification Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to reallocate an Executive Assistant position to an Administrative Technician position in the Community 
Development Department.
BACKGROUND:
The Community Development Department requests a reallocation of a vacant 1.0 Full-time Equivalent (FTE) Executive 
Assistant position to 1.0 FTE Administrative Technician. The duties performed by the position in question are primarily of a 
technical and/or analytical nature, including the oversight and management of Department contracts and vendor 
accounts, as well as the creation and implementation of various system and process improvements. These responsibilities 
align more closely with the job specifications and minimum qualifications of the Administrative Technician classification 
rather than the Executive Assistant. In addition, the Administrative Technician classification will allow greater flexibility in 
aligning supervisory responsibilities and experience in a way that matches the current needs of the Department.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Administrative Technician’s annual fully-loaded cost is approximately $2,500 higher than the cost of the budgeted 
Executive Assistant position. This amount can be absorbed in the Department’s fiscal year 2021-22 operating budget. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This reallocation is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Brian Alexander, Senior Management Analyst
balexander@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7209
27 of 445

--- page 28 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2021)
REALLOCATION OF A POSITION IN THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
WHEREAS, pursuant to the San Mateo Municipal Code Section 2.57.030(d), approval of reallocations 
must be approved by City Council Resolution; and
WHEREAS, the Community Development Department has a vacant 1.0 Full-time Equivalent Executive 
Assistant Position; and
WHEREAS, the duties performed by the position in question are primarily of a technical and/or analytical 
nature that align more closely with the job specifications and minimum qualifications of the Administrative 
Technician classification; and
WHEREAS, the employee associations representing the impacted classification have reviewed the 
proposed changes, asked to meet and confer, and all outstanding questions were resolved; and
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
The reallocation of an Executive Assistant position to Administrative Technician in the Community 
Development Department is approved.
28 of 445

--- page 29 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-4022-02
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
July 19, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Board and Commission – Appointment Subcommittee and Appointment to Community Relations Commission and 
Planning Commission 
RECOMMENDATION:
Appoint Mayor Rodriguez and Council Member Goethals to the Senior Citizen Commission Appointment Subcommittee, 
appoint Sheri Boles to the Community Relations Commission for a partial term ending June 10, 2022 and Adam Nugent to 
the Planning Commission for a term ending June 10, 2025. 
BACKGROUND:
Per the City Council Guidelines, the City Council appoints an appointment subcommittee for each board or commission 
body, comprised of the Mayor (or designee) and the Council liaison to that commission. The guidelines also allow the other 
Council members to participate as a member of the appointment subcommittee. In order to ensure that the meeting is 
appropriately noticed and agendized, this is the opportunity for Council to add their names as a participant to the 
appointment subcommittee. 
Commissioner Lillian Barden notified the City that she would be stepping down as a Senior Citizen Commissioner effective 
June 16, 2021 thus creating an unscheduled vacancy for a term ending June 10, 2023. 
The Community Relations Commission (CRC) has an unscheduled vacancy due to the appointment of Commissioner Seema 
Patel to the Planning Commission. The term of this vacancy ends June 10, 2022. The CRC met previously this year and 
established an eligibility list as of June 2, 2021 allowing Sheri Boles to be appointed to this recent vacancy.
Commissioner Ellen Mallory notified the City to say that she is moving out of the area therefore will not be able to 
complete her term. A Planning Commission eligibility list was established on June 16, 2021 allowing Adam Nugent to be 
appointed.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact with this action.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This appointment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
29 of 445

--- page 30 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
None
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
30 of 445

--- page 31 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4895
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
July 19, 2021 
SUBJECT:
COVID-19 Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an update on operational impacts and other City efforts related to COVID-19, and confirm rules and regulations 
issued by the City Manager acting as the Director of Emergency Services in response to declared emergency. 
BACKGROUND:
On March 4, 2020, the Governor proclaimed a state of emergency in response to the outbreak of respiratory illness due to 
a novel coronavirus now referred to as COVID-19. As a consequence of this proclamation the City Manager, acting as the 
City’s Director of Emergency Services, was authorized to make and issue rules and regulations on matters reasonably 
related to the protection of life and property as affected by such emergency. 
The City Council declared a local health emergency on March 16, 2020. In addition to positioning the City for potential 
mutual aid and cost recovery opportunities, the emergency proclamation also provides the City Manager broader 
authority to be able to expeditiously address issues related to the emergency. With that said, actions taken by the City 
Manager outside of the general authority of the duties provided for in the City Charter are subject to confirmation by 
Council as soon as practicable. 
State and local emergency proclamations are still in effect, and as of June 15th, the State transitioned into its “Beyond the 
Blueprint” framework. In this framework, there are no capacity limits at businesses, no physical distancing requirements, 
and masking requirements for fully vaccinated individuals are limited. Masks or face coverings continue to be required for 
unvaccinated individuals in indoor public settings and businesses. 
While the “Beyond the Blueprint” framework goes a long way towards a return to normalcy, there is still uncertainty that 
will require the City to remain flexible as it returns to fully operational. As such, at its June 21st meeting, the City Council 
extended the emergency proclamation, which had been due to expire June 30th, another 60 days. Staff anticipates this will 
be the last requested extension of the local emergency proclamation. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for receiving this informational report.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
31 of 445

--- page 32 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Drew Corbett, City Manager
dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7002
32 of 445

--- page 33 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4866
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
July 19, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Bay Meadows Community Facilities District – Special Tax Levy Fiscal Year 2021-22
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to authorize the levy of special taxes for fiscal year 2021-22 for the Community Facilities District No. 
2008-1 (Bay Meadows).
BACKGROUND:
There are various annual reporting requirements with different reporting dates related to the City of San Mateo 
Community Facilities District (CFD) No. 2008-1 (Bay Meadows). The requirements include City Council approval of the 
“Annual Levy of Special Tax” resolution authorizing the levy of special taxes within CFD No. 2008-1. The annual levy is 
necessary to pay debt service on the outstanding bonds and to pay for certain public services. Approval is due each year 
prior to the County of San Mateo’s July 31st deadline for the inclusion of such special taxes on the consolidated property 
tax bills pursuant to Government Code Section 53340 of the Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act of 1982 (the “Act”), or in 
the case of direct billing, at a different time or manner if necessary to meet its financial obligations. 
CFD No. 2008-1 special taxes are for public facilities within the district that encompasses a planned 1,066 residential units 
(832 units on residential parcels and 234 units on mixed-use parcels), 68 below market-rate rental units, 770,000 square 
feet of office space, 85,000 square feet of retail space, 31,500 square feet of professional space above ground floor retail, 
and approximately 135,000 square feet of high school campus and commercial space. The special tax levy is authorized 
pursuant to Section 53340 of the Government Code and Ordinance No. 2012-1. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The special taxes being levied hereunder are at the same rate or at a lower rate than provided by the Ordinance. The total 
fiscal year 2021-22 Special Tax Levy for CFD No. 2008-1 is $5,630,771.27.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The Bay Meadows Facilities District is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does 
not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - CFD No. 2008-1 (Bay Meadows) FY2021-22 Special Tax Requirement
33 of 445

--- page 34 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Rich Lee, Director, Finance
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
34 of 445

--- page 35 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO.______ (2021)
APPROVING THE SPECIAL TAX ROLL AND AUTHORIZING THE LEVY OF SPECIAL TAXES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2021-
2022 WITHIN COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT NO. 2008-1 
(BAY MEADOWS)
WHEREAS, a community facilities district, “Community Facilities District No. 2008-1 (Bay Meadows),” (the 
“District”), was established August 11, 2008, for the purpose of setting and levying special taxes to pay debt 
service on outstanding bonds (Series 2012, Series 2013, and Series 2014) and to pay for certain governmental 
development fees and the acquisition of certain public facilities within the District; and
WHEREAS, the District encompasses approximately 800 projected residential units and a significant 
amount of non-residential square footage in the Bay Meadows project area; and
WHEREAS, approval of the special tax roll prior to the County of San Mateo’s July 31st deadline for 
inclusion of special taxes on consolidated property tax bills is required pursuant to Government Code Section 
53340 of the Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act of 1982; and
 WHEREAS, City of San Mateo Ordinance No. 2012-1 (the “Ordinance”) authorizes the Public Works 
Director to determine the special tax amount in accordance with the Rate and Method of Apportionment, 
prepare the annual special tax roll, and present the roll to the City Council for consideration; and
WHEREAS, the Ordinance requires that the Public Works Director be authorized to send the special tax, 
special tax roll, and all necessary and appropriate information to the County of San Mateo Auditor to be 
included in the County secured property tax rolls for collection each fiscal year; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with Public Resources Code section 21065, this action is not a “project” subject 
to the California Environmental Quality Act because it can be seen with certainty that it will not have a 
significant impact on the environment;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, AS THE LEGISLATIVE 
BODY OF COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT NO. 2008-1 (BAY MEADOWS), HEREBY RESOLVES, that:
1.
The Special Tax Roll for Fiscal Year 2021-2022 for Community Facilities District No. 2008-1 (Bay 
Meadows) of the City of San Mateo is approved.
2.
Without further action of the Council, the Public Works Director is authorized to levy the Special 
Tax for Community Facilities District No. 2008-1 (Bay Meadows) of the City of San Mateo and 
send the special tax roll to the County of San Mateo to be included in the County’s tax roll for 
collection for Fiscal Year 2021-2022. 
35 of 445

--- page 36 ---
3.
The Controller is hereby authorized to place the assessment, charge, or tax on the property tax 
roll with the following per unit, per square foot or per acre amounts identified in the table 
below:
L and
F Y 2011-12
F Y 2021-22
Us e
R es idential F loor
Maximum
Maximum
C las s
Des cription
Area (s quare feet)
L ocation
S pecial Tax
S pecial Tax  [1]
1
Greater than 2,300
NA
$5,405.00
$6,588.66
2
2,151 to 2,300
NA
$5,288.00
$6,446.04
3
2,001 to 2,150
NA
$4,989.00
$6,081.56
4
Residential P roperty
1,851 to 2,000
NA
$4,973.00
$6,062.06
5
Residential P roperty
1,701 to 1,850
NA
$4,917.00
$5,993.80
6
1,551 to 1,700
NA
$4,557.00
$5,554.96
7
1,401 to 1,550
NA
$4,069.00
$4,960.09
8
Residential P roperty
1,251 to 1,400
NA
$3,701.00
$4,511.50
9
Residential P roperty
1,101 to 1,250
NA
$3,482.00
$4,244.54
10
951 to 1,100
NA
$3,158.00
$3,849.58
11
801 to 950
NA
$2,572.00
$3,135.25
12
Less than 801
NA
$2,332.00
$2,842.69
13
Greater than 1,400
NA
$1,344.00
$1,638.33
14
801-1,400
NA
$1,344.00
$1,638.33
15
Less Than 801
NA
$1,139.00
$1,388.43
16
NA
NA
$60,000.00
$73,139.67
17
NA
NA
$1.77
$2.160
18
NA
NA
$0.52
$0.630
NA
NA
NA
$132,693.00
$161,752.03
Residential P roperty
Residential P roperty
Residential P roperty
Residential P roperty
Below Market-Rate Units
[1] The Maximum S pecial Tax is subject to 2%  escalation through fiscal year 2060-61.
Residential P roperty
Below Market-Rate Units
Undeveloped P roperty
Below Market-Rate Units
Apartment P roperty [2]
Non-Residential P roperty - Office F loor Area
Non-Residential P roperty - Retail F loor Area
[2] P ursuant to the Rate and Method, any Assessor’s P arcels or portions of Assessor’s P arcels that would ordinarily be classified as Apartment P roperty that are created after the first 5.306 Acres of Apartment P roperty have 
already been established will be classified as Residential P roperty with C ondominium Units or BMR Units located on them, and each dwelling unit located on such Residential P roperty will be subject to the same Assigned 
S pecial Taxes and Back up S pecial Tax rates as are assigned to C ondominium Units or BMR Units, as applicable.
Residential P roperty
Residential P roperty
Residential P roperty
Furthermore, the lowest per parcel assessment is: $0.00, and the expected highest per parcel amount will not 
exceed: $500,000. 
36 of 445

--- page 37 ---
DTA
Page 1 
Fund Balances as of May 31, 2021
$3,092,794.38
Special Tax Fund
$1,269,244.73
Special Taxes Deposited in Redemption Fund
$1,986,593.20
Expected Final Apportionment from County
$0.00
Amounts Committed to Other Uses Per the Indenture
($163,043.55)
Reserve Fund Earnings Available for Debt Service 
$0.00
Remaining Fiscal Year 2020-2021 Sources of Funds:
$3,092,794.38
Special Tax Collections Available for Principal and Interest Due 9/1/21
$3,092,794.38
Capitalized Interest Funds Available for Interest Due 9/1/21
$0.00
Remaining Fiscal Year 2020-2021 Obligations:
($3,092,794.38)
Interest Due September 1, 2021
($2,257,794.38)
Principal Due September 1, 2021
($835,000.00)
Fiscal Year 2021-2022 Surplus / (Draw on Reserve Fund)
$0.00
Series 2012, Series 2013, & Series 2014 Debt Service Obligations:
($5,455,863.76)
Interest Due March 1, 2022
($2,240,431.88)
Interest Due September 1, 2022
($2,240,431.88)
Principal Due September 1, 2022
($975,000.00)
Administrative Expense Obligations
($63,955.73)
Direct Levy for Payment of Authorized Facilities
($36,569.83)
Levy for Anticipated Special Tax Delinquencies
($74,381.95)
Credit for Funds Available per the Indenture 
$0.00
Fiscal Year 2021-2022 Special Tax Requirement
$5,630,771.27
City of San Mateo
Community Facilities District No. 2008-1 (Bay Meadows)
Fiscal Year 2021-2022 Special Tax Requirement
37 of 445

--- page 38 ---
DTA
Page 2 
2012
2022
Land
FY 2011-12
FY 2021-22
Use
Residential Floor
Maximum
Maximum
Class
Description
Area (square feet)
Location
Special Tax
Special Tax [1]
1
Greater than 2,300
NA
$5,405.00
$6,588.66
2
2,151 to 2,300
NA
$5,288.00
$6,446.04
3
2,001 to 2,150
NA
$4,989.00
$6,081.56
4
Residential Property
1,851 to 2,000
NA
$4,973.00
$6,062.06
5
Residential Property
1,701 to 1,850
NA
$4,917.00
$5,993.80
6
1,551 to 1,700
NA
$4,557.00
$5,554.96
7
1,401 to 1,550
NA
$4,069.00
$4,960.09
8
Residential Property
1,251 to 1,400
NA
$3,701.00
$4,511.50
9
Residential Property
1,101 to 1,250
NA
$3,482.00
$4,244.54
10
951 to 1,100
NA
$3,158.00
$3,849.58
11
801 to 950
NA
$2,572.00
$3,135.25
12
Less than 801
NA
$2,332.00
$2,842.69
13
Greater than 1,400
NA
$1,344.00
$1,638.33
14
801-1,400
NA
$1,344.00
$1,638.33
15
Less Than 801
NA
$1,139.00
$1,388.43
16
NA
NA
$60,000.00
$73,139.67
17
NA
NA
$1.77
$2.160
18
NA
NA
$0.52
$0.630
NA
NA
NA
$132,693.00
$161,752.03
Residential Property
City of San Mateo
Community Facilities District No. 2008-1 (Bay Meadows)
Fiscal Year 2021-2022 Maximum Special Tax Rates
Residential Property
Residential Property
[1] The Maximum Special Tax is subject to 2% escalation through fiscal year 2060-61.
Residential Property
Below Market-Rate Units
Undeveloped Property
Below Market-Rate Units
Apartment Property [2]
Non-Residential Property - Office Floor Area
Non-Residential Property - Retail Floor Area
[2] Pursuant to the Rate and Method, any Assessor’s Parcels or portions of Assessor’s Parcels that would ordinarily be classified as Apartment Property that are created after the first 5.306 Acres of Apartment Property 
have already been established will be classified as Residential Property with Condominium Units or BMR Units located on them, and each dwelling unit located on such Residential Property will be subject to the same 
Assigned Special Taxes and Backup Special Tax rates as are assigned to Condominium Units or BMR Units, as applicable.
Residential Property
Residential Property
Residential Property
Residential Property
Below Market-Rate Units
38 of 445

--- page 39 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4812
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
July 19, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Bay Meadows Block 4 – Public Service Easement Summary Vacation
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to vacate a public service easement on Bay Meadows Phase II, No.2 Final Map, Block 4, in substantially 
the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
On April 18, 2011, City Council approved the Bay Meadows Phase II, No. 2 Final Map as shown in Attachment 2 (Final 
Map). The Final Map created Block 4 and was officially recorded on September 28, 2011 with the San Mateo County 
Recorder's Office (Book 137 of Maps at Pages 73-81). At the time of recording the Final Map, and in accordance with the 
Conditions of Approval, the owner, Bay Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC, dedicated certain portions of land as Public 
Service Easements (PSEs) for the purpose of construction, reconstruction, removing, replacing, repairing, maintaining, 
operating, and use of public service utilities. 
During construction in the Bay Meadows Phase II area, the owner determined that the original PSE limits were larger than 
needed and infringed on private structures. Therefore, the owner requested vacation of portions of the PSE through 
Council action. On January 20, 2015, City Council approved the summary vacation of portions of the PSE. The specific PSE 
vacation and exception limits on Block 4 are shown in Attachment 3. 
During October 2008, the Planning Commission approved the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) No. 2 for the 
development of 71 residential units on Block 4 (Planning Application #07-055), and during March 2016 approved design 
modifications to allow for 82 residential units on Block 4 (Planning Application #15-013). 
During construction of Block 4’s residential project, the City and owner determined that one of the PSEs located near the 
corner of East Kyne Street and Landing Avenue, as described in Attachment 1, Exhibit A (Block 4 PSE), conflicted with the 
construction of important public-facing design features, such as shade structures, a stoop/landing, and stairs. Therefore, 
the owner is requesting the summary vacation of the Block 4 PSE to construct the design features approved as part of the 
Planning Applications, while avoiding adverse impacts on utility and City facilities. 
Pursuant to the authority contained in the Streets and Highways Code Section 8333(c) of the State of California, the PSE 
has been superseded by relocation and determined to be in excess by the easement holder, and there are no other public 
facilities located within the easement. The owner provided a signed letter from California Water Service stating that the 
Block 4 PSE was formerly used for certain water facilities, where the water facilities have been relocated outside of Block 
4, and that there is no objection to the proposed vacation. 
Pursuant to the authority contained in the Streets and Highways Code Section 8335(b)(1) of the State of California, the 
39 of 445

--- page 40 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
owner has notified utility entities of the proposed vacation. Utility entities have provided documentation stating they have 
no facilities within the Block 4 PSE and no objection to the proposed vacation (Attachment 4). Therefore, the Block 4 PSE is 
not required for present or prospective public use. 
Public Works and the City's contracted Licensed Surveyor determined that the plat and legal description of the Block 4 PSE 
to be vacated are technically correct. Therefore, staff has no objections to the summary vacation of the PSE.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The project applicant provided a project account for staff review of the plat, legal description, and associated materials.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The City Council exercised its independent judgment certifying the Final EIR for the San Mateo Rail Corridor Plan & Bay 
Meadow Specific Plan Amendment on April 18, 2005 (with respect to the Corridor Plan) and November 7, 2005 (with 
respect to the Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment), and has adopted appropriate CEQA findings related to the Project 
Approvals. On March 8, 2016, the Planning Commission adopted Addendum #4 to that Final EIR for the Bay Meadows RES 
4 Site Plan and Architectural Review Modification (Planning Application #15-013). Approval by the City Council for 
summary vacation is in accordance with California Streets and Highway Code section 8335. These actions are ministerial 
acts in accordance with CEQA guidelines section 15268 as they fall within the scope of the Project Approvals and CEQA 
findings previously made by the City Council and Planning Commission.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Bay Meadows Final Map Phase II No. 2
Att 3 – Resolution 9 (2015)
Att 4 – Utility Documentation
STAFF CONTACT
Karen Magallanes, Assistant Engineer
kmagallanes@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7576
Tracy Scramaglia, Senior Engineer
tscramaglia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7316
40 of 445

--- page 41 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO.          (2021) 
 
APPROVING THE SUMMARY VACATION OF A PUBLIC SERVICE EASEMENT 
(BAY MEADOWS PHASE II, NO. 2 FINAL MAP, BLOCK 4) 
 
WHEREAS, on April 18, 2011, City Council approved the Bay Meadows Phase II, No. 2 Final Map. 
The Final Map created Block 4, and was recorded on September 28, 2011, in Book 137 of Maps, at Pages 
73-81 at the San Mateo County Recorder's Office.  
 
WHEREAS, the owner, Bay Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC, dedicated Public Service Easements 
(PSEs) for the purpose of construction, reconstruction, removing, replacing, repairing, maintaining, operating, 
and using of public service utilities;  
 
WHEREAS, on January 20, 2015, City Council approved the summary vacation of portions of the PSE on 
Block 4;   
 
WHEREAS; in October 2008, the Planning Commission approved Site Plan and Architectural Review 
No. 2 for the development of 71 residential units on Block 4 (Planning Application #07-055), and in March 
2016, approved design modifications to allow for a total of 82 residential units on Block 4 (Planning 
Application #15-013);  
 
WHEREAS, during construction of Block 4’s residential project, it was determined that one of the 
Public Service Easements on Block 4 near the corner of Kyne Street and Landing Avenue, more particularly 
described in Exhibit A attached hereto (Block 4 PSE), conflicted with the construction of public-facing design 
features approved as part of the Planning Application process; 
 
WHEREAS, the developer of the Block 4 residential project has requested a summary vacation of the 
Block 4 PSE to construct the approved design features while avoiding all adverse impacts on utility and City 
facilities; 
 
WHEREAS, California Streets and Highways Code Section 8333(c) authorizes a city to summarily vacate 
a public service easement when an easement has been superseded by relocation or determined to be excess 
by the easement holder, and there are no other public facilities located within the easement; 
 
WHEREAS, California Water Service has relocated their water facilities outside of the Block PSE and 
has no objection to the propose vacation; 
 
WHEREAS, no utility facilities remain within the Block 4 PSE; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Block 4 PSE is no longer required for present or prospective public use. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY 
FINDS and RESOLVES that: 
41 of 445

--- page 42 ---
1. 
The City Council exercised its independent judgment certifying the Final EIR for the San Mateo 
Rail Corridor Plan & Bay Meadow Specific Plan Amendment on April 18, 2005 (with respect to 
the Corridor Plan) and November 7, 2005 (with respect to the Bay Meadows Specific Plan 
Amendment), and has adopted appropriate CEQA findings related to the Project Approvals. On 
September 25, 2018, the Planning Commission adopted Addendum #5 to that Final EIR for the 
Bay Meadows STA 1 and 5 Planning Application Modification (PA17-074). Approval by the City 
Council for the summary vacation is in accordance with California Streets and Highway Code 
section 8335. These actions are ministerial acts in accordance with CEQA guidelines section 
15268 as they fall within the scope of the Project Approvals and CEQA findings previously made 
by the City Council and Planning Commission. 
2. 
In accordance with Streets and Highways Code Section 8333(c), the City Council finds and 
determines that the PSE described in Exhibit A attached hereto, has been superseded by 
relocation and is unnecessary for present or prospective public use. 
3. 
In accordance with Chapter 4, Summary Vacation, of the Streets and Highways Code, the City 
Council hereby vacates the PSE described in Exhibit A attached hereto. 
4. 
The City Council hereby authorizes and directs the City Clerk to record a certified copy of this 
Resolution attested by the City Clerk under seal, with the San Mateo County recorder’s office. 
5. 
From and after the date that the resolution is recorded, the PSE described in Exhibit A will not 
constitute a PSE. 
 
RESOLUTION NO. (2021) adopted by the City Council of the City of San Mateo, California, at a regular meeting 
held on , by the following vote of the City Council. 
 
 
 
 
 
42 of 445

--- page 43 ---
Exhibit 'A'
Legal Description and Plat of 
PSE to be Vacated
43 of 445

--- page 44 ---
Exhibit ‘A’
Legal Description

Public Service Easement to be Abandoned

An easement over real property situated in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of
California being described as follows:

Being over a portion of Lot 1, Block 4, as said Lot is shown on that Final Map entitled “Bay
Meadows Phase II, No. 2”, (hereinafter referred to as Map No. 2), as said map was filed for
record on September 28, 2011 in Book 137 of Maps, at Pages 73-81, San Mateo County Records
and being more particularly described as follows:

Commencing at the southerly corner of said Lot 1, said point being the point of intersection of
the northwesterly line of Landing Avenue with the northeasterly line of Kyne Street, as shown on
said Map No. 2; thence along the southwesterly line of said Lot 1, North 34°05’59” West 26.89
feet to the True Point of Beginning; thence continuing along said southwesterly line, North
34°05’59” West 18.85 feet; thence leaving said southwesterly line, North 55°54’01” East 5.00
feet to a line parallel with and 5.00 feet distant, measured at right angles, from said southwesterly
line; thence along said parallel line, South 34°05’59” East 18.85 feet; thence South 55°54°01”
West 5.00 feet to the True Point of Beginning.

Said described area containing 94 square feet, more or less.

Said portion to be abandoned also described as Exception Area Parcel 4A in that certain
Resolution No. 9 (2105) entitled “Approving the Summary Vacation of Portions of Existing
Public Services Easement Areas, Bay Meadows Phase II Blocks, Parcel 4 — Lot 1 - Block 4 —
APN 040-030-310” recorded on August 20, 2015 under Recorder’s Series No. 2015-088309, San
Mateo County Official Records

Attached hereto is an exhibit labeled “Exhibit B — Plat to Accompany Legal Description” and by
this reference is made a part hereof.

KevitR. Weis

12/18/2020 Sheet | of 2
Prepared By: JMH Weiss, Inc.
P.\5171 - Bay Meadows - STA 2-4\Survey\Res4 - PSE Abandonment\5171 - PSE Abadonment.doc

&nbsp;
44 of&nbsp;445


--- page 45 ---
BLOCK 4
LOT 2
137 M 73

San Jose, CA 95110
Phone: (408) 286-4555
www.jmhweiss.com

1731 Technology Dr., Ste# 880

BLOCK 4
LOT 1
137 M 73

DERBY AVENUE
N 55°54'01" E 239.47

LEGEND & ABBREVIATIONS

PROPERTY LINE
—-------- EASEMENT LINE
PUBLIC SERVICE EASEMENT

~ N 34°05'59” W 299.98" 0.0, POINT OF COMMENCEMENT

TRUE POINT OF 8EGi
KYNE STREET E POINT OF SEGINNING
137 M 73 BOOK 137 OF PARCEL MAPS, AT PAGE 73

S §5°54'01” W 239.47
LANDING AVENUE

SEE DETAIL

BLOCK 4
LOT 1
137 M 73

P.S.E. (139 M 11) &

(#2015-088309, EXCEPTION PARCEL 4A)
S 34°05'59” E 18.85’ TO BE ABANDONED

LANDING AVENUE

N 34°05'59” W 299.98" (T)

KYNE STREET aTSi

SHEET 2 OF 2

EXHIBIT 'B': PLAT TO ACCOMPANY LEGAL
DESCRIPTION FOR P.S.E. ABANDONMENT

CALE: AS SHOWN
OB NO. 5171

OWG NAME: P:\$171 — Bay Meadows - STA 2-4\Survey\Res4 - PSE Abondonment\5171-PSE Abondonment Plat.dwg, LAST EDMED: Fri, Mar 12, 2021 3:16pm
USER: cteves, AutoCod V.24.0s [LMS Tech), Microsoft Windows NT Version 10.0 (x64)

&nbsp;
45 of&nbsp;445


--- page 46 ---
OWNER'S STATEMENT

WE HEREBY CERTIFY THAT WE ARE THE OWNERS. OF OR HAVE SOME RIGHT, TITLE, OR INTEREST IN AND TO THE REAL PROPERTY
INCLUDED WITHIN THE SUBDIVISION SHOWN UPON THE HEREIN MAP; THAT WE ARE THE ONLY PERSONS WHOSE CONSENT IS
NECESSARY 70 PASS A CLEAR TITLE TO SAID REAL PROPERTY, AND THAT WE CONSENT 10 THE PREPARATION AND RECORDATION
OF SAID MAP AND SUBDMISION.

WE HEREBY DEDICATE TO THE CITY, OF SAN MATEO FOREVER FOR THE PURPOSES OF PUBLIC STREETS, HIGHWAYS, AND RIGHTS~
OF-WAY (SUBJECT TO ACCEPTANCE BY THE CITY CONCURRENT WITH THE CITY ENGINEER'S ACCEPTANCE OF REQUIRED PUBLIC
IMPROVEMENTS AS COMPLETE) THOSE PORTIONS OF LAND DESIGNATED HEREIN AS BAZE ROAD, KYNE STREET, LANDING AVENUE
AND FRANKLIN PARKWAY, AS DELINEATED AND EMBRACED WITHIN THE BOUNDARIES OF THE HEREIN EMBODIED MAP.

WE ALSO HEREBY DEDICATE TO THE CITY OF SAN MATEO NON-EXCLUSIVE EASEMENTS AND RIGHTS~OF-WAY FOR THE PURPOSE
OF CONSTRUCTION, RECONSTRUCTION, REMOVING, REPLACING, REPAIRING, MAINTAINING, OPERATING AND USING PUBLIC SERVICE
FACILTIES, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO PUBLIC UTILITIES, FIRE HYDRANTS, STREET LIGHTS, AND ALL NECESSARY BRACES,
CONNECTIONS FASTENINGS OR OTHER FACILITIES AND OTHER APPLIANCES AND FIXTURES FOR USE IN CONNECTION THEREWITH OR
APPURTENANT THERETO, IN, UNDER, ALONG, AND ACROSS ANY AREA OR STRIP OF LAND DESIGNATED "P.S.E.” (PUBLIC SERVICE
EASEMENT) AS DELINEATED AND EMBRACED WITHIN THE BOUNDARY OF SAID MAP. SAID EASEMENT AREAS ARE TO BE KEPT OPEN
AND FREE FROM BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES OF ANY KIND, EXCEPT APPLICABLE UTILITY STRUCTURES AND APPURTENANCES,
IRRIGATION SYSTEMS AND APPURTENANCES, FENCES AND LAWFUL ROOF OVERHANGS.

WE ALSO HEREBY DEDICATE TO THE CITY OF SAN MATEO EASEMENTS FOR PUBLIC PEDESTRIAN INGRESS AND EGRESS AND FOR
THE INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SIDEWALKS OVER AND ACROSS THOSE PORTIONS OF LAND DESIGNATED ‘S.W.E.”
(SIDEWALK EASEMENT) AS DELINEATED AND EMBRACED WITHIN THE BOUNDARY OF SAID MAP, SAID EASEMENT AREAS ARE TO BE
KEPT OPEN AND FREE FROM BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES OF ANY KIND, EXCEPT APPLICABLE UTILITY STRUCTURES AND
APPURTENANCES, IRRIGATION SYSTEMS AND APPURTENANCES, FENCES AND LAWFUL ROOF OVERHANGS.

WE ALSO HEREBY DEDICATE 10 THE CiTY OF SAN MATEO EASEMENTS FOR PUBLIC ACCESS OVER AND ACROSS THOSE PORTIONS
OF LAND DESIGNATED "P.A.E.” (PUBLIC ACCESS EASEMENT). THE PUBLIC ACCESS EASEMENT IS FOR SURFACE ACCESS ONLY.

WE ALSO HEREBY DEDICATE TO THE CITY OF SAN MATEO EASEMENTS WITH THE RIGHT OF INGRESS AND EGRESS OF PEDESTRIAN
AND VEHICULAR TRAFFIC OVER AND ACROSS THAT PORTION OF BLOCK 8 DESIGNATED "LEE." (INGRESS AND EGRESS EASEMENT)
AS DELINEATED AND EMBRACED WITHIN THE BOUNDARY OF SAID MAP. SAID EASEMENT AREA IS TO BE KEPT OPEN AND FREE
FROM BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES OF ANY KIND, EXCEPT APPLICABLE UTILITY STRUCTURES AND APPURTENANCES, IRRIGATION
SYSTEMS AND APPURTENANCES, FENCES AND LAWFUL ROOF OVERHANGS.

WE ALSO HEREBY DEDICATE TO THE CITY OF SAN MATEO EASEMENTS WITH THE RIGHT OF INGRESS AND EGRESS OVER, UNDER
AND ACROSS THOSE PORTIONS OF LAND DESIGNATED "S.D.E.” (STORM DRAINAGE EASEMENT) AS DELINEATED AND EMBRACED
WITHIN THE BOUNDARY OF SAID MAP FOR THE INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF STORM DRAINAGE FACILITIES AND THEIR
APPURTENANCES, SAID EASEMENT AREAS ARE TO BE KEPT OPEN AND FREE FROM BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES OF ANY KIND,
EXCEPT APPLICABLE UTILITY STRUCTURES AND APPURTENANCES, IRRIGATION SYSTEMS AND APPURTENANCES, FENCES AND LAWFUL
ROOF OVERHANGS.

WE ALSO HEREBY OFFER FOR DEDICATION TO THE CITY OF SAN MATEO THOSE PORTIONS OF LAND SHOWN HEREON AS LOT B
(NEIGHBORHOOD PARK) FOR PUBLIC OPEN SPACE AND PARK USE. THE RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES GOVERNING THE USE OF
SAID PORTIONS OF LAND ARE DEFINED IN PROJECT COVENANTS, CONDITIONS, AND RESTRICTIONS RECORDED’ AUGU S4r

25, 2010, AS INSTRUMENT NO. 2010-095916, OFFICIAL RECORDS OF SAN MATEO COUNTY.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE UNDERSIGNED, HAS/HAVE CAUSED THIS STATEMENT AND THESE DEDICATIONS TO BE EXECUTED THIS

lov DAY, OF februa ey 2011.

OWNER; BAY MEADOWS MAIN TRACK INVESTORS, LLC
A DELAWARE UMITED LIABILITY COMPANY

e

BY: DATE Aftofu
HEN PACH, VICE PRESIDENT ;

OWNER'S ACKNOWLEDGMENT
swe or ~_ California. )

COUMY OF San Francisco ) ss.
ON February 10, LOI BEFORE ME, Renee Adams

worany PUBL, PERsoNALY APPEARED OTePhEn Pilch

WHO PROVED TO ME ON THE BASIS OF SATISFACTORY EVDENCE TO BE THE PERSON(S) WHOSE NAME(S)
IS/ARE SUBSCRIBED TO THE WITHIN INSTRUMENT AND ACKNOWLEDGED TO ME THAT HE/SHE/THEY EXECUTED
THE SAME IN HIS/HER/THER AUTHORIZED CAPACITIES), AND BY HIS/HER/THEIR SIGNATURE(S) ON THE
SME THE PERSON) OR THE NTY FON BEAL OF WOH THE PERSON(S) ACTED, EXECUTED
THE INSTRUMENT.

| CERTIFY UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF Califor nia

] THAT THE FOREGOING PARAGRAPH IS TRUE AND CORRECT.

WITNESS MY HAND:

SIGNATURE Lee dame)

PRINTED NAME Rene.
NOTARY PUBLIC IN AND FOR SAD COUNTY AND STATE

PRNCPAL COUNTY OF BUSNEsS _G@n Francisco
COMMISSION EXPIRES {0 -2l- 1]
1779163

COMMISSION NUMBER

BAY MEADOWS PHASE II, NO.

CONSISTING OF NINE (9) SHEETS

BEING A SUBDWISION OF BLOCK 3 AND A PORTION OF THAT DESIGNATED
REMAINDER AS SHOWN ON THAT CERTAIN MAP ENTITLED "BAY MEADOWS PHASE
ll, NO. 1” AS SAID MAP WAS RECORDED ON AUGUST 25, 2010 IN BOOK 137

OF MAPS, AT PAGES 37-46, SAN MATEO COUNTY OFFICIAL RECORDS

AND LYING ENTIRELY WITHIN THE

CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

FEBRUARY 2011

JM WEIss, INC.

Civil Engineering ~ Surveying ~ Land Planning
150 S. Almaden Blvd., Suite 700 San Jose, CA 95113

NW

US HIGHWAY 101

VICINITY MAP
NTS

SURVEYOR'S STATEMENT

THIS MAP WAS PREPARED BY ME OR UNDER MY DIRECTION, WAS BASED ON A FIELD SURVEY AND COMPILED FROM
RECORD DATA IN CONFORMANCE WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SUBDIVISION MAP ACT AND LOCAL ORDINANCE AT
THE REQUEST OF BAY MEADOWS MAIN TRACK INVESTORS, LLC IN MARCH 2010. | HEREBY STATE THAT THIS SUBDIMSION
MAP SUBSTANTIALLY CONFORMS TO THE APPROVED OR CONDITIONALLY APPROVED TENTATIVE MAP, IF ANY, THE
MONUMENTS SHOWN HEREON ARE OF THE CHARACTER AND OCCUPY THE POSITICNS INDICATED, OR WILL BE SET IN
SUCH POSITION ON OR BEFORE DECEMBER 2013, AND ARE OR WILL BE SUFFICIENT TO ENABLE THE SURVEY TO BE

of
KEVIN R. WEISS, L9, 7139
EXPIRES 12/31/12

ef

CITY ENGINEER'S STATEMENT

| HAVE EXAMINED THE MAP. THE SUBDIVISION AS SHOWN IS SUBSTANTIALLY THE SAME AS IT APPEARED ON THE
TENTATIVE MAP, AND ANY APPROVED ALTERATIONS OF THE TENTATIVE MAP, IF ANY. ALL PROVISIONS OF THE SUBDMSION
MAP ACT AND OF ANY LOCAL ORDINANCES APPLICABLE AT THE TIME OF APPROVAL OF THE TENTATIVE MAP HAVE BEEN
COMPLIED WITH. : .

SUSANNA ay CITY ENGINEER

REGISTRATION NO. 58419
EXIPRATION 12/31/12

6
OaTE ar[2 fu

CITY SURVEYOR'S STATEMENT

GREGORY G. SHORT, CP? SURVEYOR

LS NO. 7125
EXPIRATION 12/31/12

24,2
mat 24,2011

DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT'S STATEMENT:

THIS MAP HAS BEEN FOUND TO CONFORM SUBSTANTIALLY WITH THE TENTATIVE MAP APPROVED BY THE

PLANNING COMMISSION,
Sa. At

USA GROTE
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR

5/38 / aan
DATE

COUNTY RECORDER'S STATEMENT
FILED THIS APM ay op ptember, rors, mt ASAP uw Book 13-7. oF WPS at

PAGE(S) ] 3 as ! AT THE REQUEST OF NORMA GOMEZ, CITY CLERK OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO.

FE NO. __ doll 9 000 4

re pang 2b -0U

. brrol} WARREN SLOCUM, SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDER

Merk Church SHEET 1 OF 9

MH JOBR 4542 °

BY:
DEPUTY

46 of 445


--- page 47 ---
SOILS AND GEOLOGICAL REPORT

‘A GEOTECHNICAL REPORT ON THIS PROPERTY HAS BEEN PREPARED BY TREADWELL & ROLLO, DATED
SEPTEMBER 24, 2008, PROJECT NO. 3425.03, COPIES OF WHICH HAVE BEEN FILED WITH THE CITY
CLERK OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO,

TRUSTEE'S STATEMENT

FIRST AMERICAN TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY, AS TRUSTEE UNDER THAT CERTAIN DEED OF TRUST RECORDED
APRIL 14, 2004, AS DOCUMENT NO. 2004~070905, OFFICIAL RECORDS OF SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA,
DOES HEREBY CONSENT TO THE PREPARATION OF THIS SUBDIMSION MAP AND JOINS IN ALL OFFERS OF
DEDICATION HEREON.

BY:
we __DYvia ERALO

me DiRaewre

TRUSTEE'S ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF Californur ; )

couy of _ One Clara )s. ,

oN 2lal \ BEFORE ME, é. Maurroqyan. A

notary Puatic, persowuy appeare Sylvia Crazo :

WHO PROVED TO ME ON THE BASIS OF SATISFACTORY EVIDENCE TO BE THE PERSON(S) WHOSE NAME(S) IS/ARE
SUBSCRIBED TO THE WITHIN INSTRUMENT AND ACKNOWLEDGED TO ME THAT HE/SHE/THEY EXECUTED THE SAME

IN HIS/HER/THEIR AUTHORIZED CAPACITY(IES), AND BY HIS/HER/THEIR SIGNATURE(S) ON THE INSTRUMENT, THE

PERSON(S) OR THE ENTITY UPON BEHALF OF WHICH THE PERSON(S) ACTED, EXECUTED THE INSTRUMENT.

| CERTIFY UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF ( Yalifornia.

THAT THE FOREGOING PARAGRAPH IS TRUE AND CORRECT.

WITNESS MY HAND:

NOTARY PUBLIC IN AND FOR SAD COUNTY ANI

Sorta Clara
Uhtalia _
1g60504

PRINCIPAL COUNTY OF BUSINESS
COMMISSION EXPIRES
COMMISSION NUMBER

BAY MEADOWS PHASE lI, NO. 2

CONSISTING OF NINE (9) SHEETS

BEING A SUBDIVISION OF BLOCK 3 AND A PORTION OF THAT DESIGNATED
REMAINDER AS SHOWN ON THAT CERTAIN MAP ENTITLED "BAY MEADOWS PHASE
ll, NO. 1” AS SAID MAP WAS RECORDED ON AUGUST 25, 2010 IN BOOK 137

OF MAPS, AT PAGES 37-46, SAN MATEO COUNTY OFFICIAL RECORDS

AND LYING ENTIRELY WITHIN THE

CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

FEBRUARY 2011

|MUE. Weiss, INC.

Civil Engineering ~ Surveying ~ Land Planning
150 S. Almaden Blvd. Suite 700 Son Jose, CA 95113

CITY ATTORNEY'S STATEMENT

APPROVED AS TO FORM.

5 /ey/ul ?-———___

DATE SHAWN MASON, CITY ATTORNEY

CITY CLERK'S STATEMENT

|, NORMA GOMEZ, CITY CLERK OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THE CITY COUNCIL OF SAID CITY AT
ITS REGULAR MEETING HELD ON APRIL 18, 2011, DULY APPROVED THE MAP SHOWN HEREON, AUTHORIZED ITS
RECORDATION AND ACCEPTED ON BEHALF OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ALL REAL PROPERTY AS SHOWN AND
DESIGNATED ON SAID MAP AS BEING OFFERED FOR DEDICATION TO THE CITY OF SAN MATEO IN CONFORMITY WITH THE
TERMS OF SAID OFFER OF DEDICATION, EXCEPTING THEREFROM LOT B (NEIGHBORHOOD PARK) WHICH CITY COUNCIL OF
SAID CITY DID REJECT AT THIS TIME, PRESERVING THE RIGHT TO ACCEPT THE OFER FOR DEDICATION FOR PUBLIC OPEN
SPACE AND PARK USE AT A FUTURE DATE SUBJECT TO GOVERNMENT CODE SECTIONS 86477.2 AND 7050.

AND, PURSUANT TO SUBDIVISION MAP ACT SECTIONS 66499,20%4 AND 66434(g), THE CITY DOES HEREBY ABANDON AND
VACATE THAT STORM DRAIN EASEMENT, AS NOTED IN THE EASEMENT NOTES ON SHEET 5 OF THIS MAP, THAT WAS
DEDICATED ON THAT MAP ENTITLED ‘BAY MEADOWS, PHAGE It, MAP NO. 1°, AS SAID MAP WAS FILED FOR RECORD ON
AUGUST 25, 2010 IN BOOK 137 OF MAPS, AT PAGES 37-46,SAN MATEO COUNTY OFFICIAL RECORDS.

| FURTHER STATE THAT ALL AGREEMENTS AND SURETY AS REQUIRED BY LAW TO ACCOMPANY THE WITHIN FINAL MAP
HAVE BEEN APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND ARE FILED IN MY OFFICE.

I FURTHER STATE THAT ALL AGREEMENTS AND SURETY AS REQUIRED BY LAW TO ACCOMPANY THE WITHIN FINAL MAP
HAVE BEEN APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND ARE FILED IN MY OFFICE,

NORMA GOMEZ, CITY CLERK : 4

SHEET 2 OF 9
AH JOB 4542

47 of 445


--- page 48 ---
i \ . FRANKLIN PARKWAY

—

H ; \ PARCEL A
| yg W3839'09" W 16.60 wens
| Warns sar r | LEGEND & ABBREVIATIONS:
| ; $ 560227" W (R) . EXISTING MONUMENT, BK 129 PG 47~57
EXISTING MONUMENT, BK 130 PG 9-15
STREET MONUMENT TO BE SET, LS 7139
STREET MONUMENT, SEE NOTE #2
RECORD IRON PIPE, PER 129 M 47
3/4" IRON PIPE TO BE SET, LS 7139
3/4” IRON PIPE, SEE NOTE #2
EXISTING MONUMENT LINE/CENTERUNE
NEW MONUMENT LINE/CENTERUNE
EXISTING DEVELOPMENT BOUNDARY LINE
PARCEL D ; DISTINCTIVE BOUNDARY LINE
7oMS | NEW BLOCK LINE
Ry New Lor une
i : - EXISTING EASEMENT LINE
. om Mag, = NEW EASEMENT LINE
i . EXISTING
INSTR. NO. INSTRUMENT NUMBER
MAIDEN WAY J PCKE PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC
LANDS OF Sy, 65, | PTT PACIFIC TELEPHONE & TELESYS COMPANY
canbe county Qs %, 23 LEE. INGRESS AND EGRESS EASEMENT
, es BLOCK 1 GIA GATEWAY IMPROVEMENT AREA
PAE. PUBLIC ACCESS EASEMENT
PSE, PUBLIC. SERVICE. EASEMENT
: pl SDE. STORM DRAN EASEMENT
W S405'59" W 977.02 | esl SME. SIDEWALK EASEMENT

a

15185. g¢°

ora | ———
7.
2078 |

NIDINVYS
.
>|

\.
he

fa

BLOCK 3 ;
R10 SHEET9 %y,, PARCEL B

75 M 6

NY THSTON

BLOCK 8

ANNSAV

|

DESIGNATED REMAINDER
N 54¢19'21" E 84.04 Ax 33.9942 AC

i antag? , - NOTE:

S A498" E 62.71 Ao 7, ALL TIES TO THE MONUMENT LINE ARE PERPENDICULAR TO THE
L= HONUMENT LINE, BUT NOT NECESSARILY PERPENDICULAR TO THE

i ‘ng? . PROPERTY LINE.
541409" W 149.30 r
56°20'49" W 149.20" 11) LLL)” 2 wonuwent/ iron PIPE NoT YET SET, TO BE SET PER "BAY

; ; MEADOWS PHASE 1, NO. 1”

N 3356.30" W 2309.46" (TOTAL) ,
R=2789.84' A=0257'46" L=144.26"

PENINSULA JOINT POWERS BOARD B AY MEADOWS PHASE II, NO. 2

i LINE TABLE CURVE TABLE RADIAL BEARINGS FOR COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM PURPOSES

Li N 56°03'30" E Ct = R=800.00' = A= 14'21"32" 1200.49" N 58°09'21" E CONSISTING OF NINE (9) SHEETS
N 26°30'08" W C2——«R=B11.00' == 10°47°56” L=152.86" S 333911" W BEING A SUBDMSION OF BLOCK 3 AND A PORTION OF THAT DESIGNATED
N 56°03'30" E C3 R=889.00' = 4=24"30'10" L=380.18" S 472555" W REMAINDER AS SHOWN ON THAT CERTAIN MAP ENTITLED "BAY MEADOWS PHASE
N 26°30'08" W C4 = R=955,50° A= 134644" 1=229.79" N 3535'30" W ll, NO. 1” AS SAD MAP WAS RECORDED ON AUGUST 25, 2010 IN BOOK 137
N sitar W C5 -R=4039.50" ‘ 1=221.63° S 364407" £ OF MAPS, AT PAGES 37-46, SAN MATEO COUNTY OFFICIAL RECORDS
N 45'32'53" W C6 R=15,00° L=21.20' N 55°54'01" E
N 56°20'49° W x C7 —-R=15,00" L=25.92" N 19'04'33" W ANDES ENTIRE Win Ie
N 58°26'49" W CBO R=454,50' a= 15°45'21" L=124.98" S 764406" W CmY OF SAN MATEO SAN WATE COUNTY
N 560330" E C9» R=2012.00' ~—A=08'20'23" L=292.86" N5731°58" W
N 5603°30" R=270.00' A=2712'56" ——L= 128.25" N 61°54'28" W SEE NOTES ON SHEET 4 FEBRUARY 2011

N 46°53'56" Cit R=1945.00 —a=04-27'33" +1 48.55" S 660947" E
S 4652'30" W R=1766,00' AS11911". =548.90" S 5450°37" E JME WEISS INC
°

| N 2036417" W
N 464913" W Civil Engineering ~ Surveying ~ Land Planning
N 21°27°06" E ‘ ' : 150 S. Almaden Blvd., Suite 700 Son Jose, CA 95113

| SHEET 3 OF 9

A “ 48 of 445



--- page 49 ---
NOTES:

1.

BASIS OF BEARINGS: THE BEARING, NORTH 54°33'25" WEST, OF THE LINE BETWEEN TWO FOUND MONUMENTS ON
SARATOGA DRIVE AS SHOWN ON THE MAP ENTITLED "BAY MEADOWS NO. 1, CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY,
CALIFORN,” RECORDED ON JUNE 8, 1999 IN BOOK 129, AT PAGES 47 THROUGH 57, SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS.

THIS MAP REPRESENTS ‘A SUBDIVISION WHICH CONTAINS APPROXIMATELY 56. 83+ ACRES OF LAND. DISTANCES AND
DIMENSIONS ARE GIVEN IN FEET AND DECIMALS THEREOF.

EASEMENTS: SEE SHEET 5 REGARDING EASEMENTS TO BE ABANDONED AND THOSE EASEMENTS STILL ENCUMBERING
THE PROPERTY.

FIESTA GARDENS, UNIT NO. 1, VOLUME 39 OF MAPS, PAGE 9-10
FIESTA GARDENS, UNIT NO. 2, VOLUME 42 OF MAPS, PAGES 19-20
; BAY MEADOWS NO. 1, VOLUME 129 OF MAPS, PAGES 47-57

BAY MEADOWS NO, 2, VOLUME 130 OF MAPS, PAGES 9~15

PARCEL MAP NO. 395, BOOK 76 OF PARCEL MAPS, PAGES 6-7

. PARCEL MAP NO. 409, BOOK 77 OF PARCEL MAPS, PAGES 14-17

. BAY MEADOWS, PHASE Il, NO. 1, BOOK 137 OF MAPS, PAGES 37~46

EMMSVOM>

; PURSUANT TO AN EASEMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN FRANKLIN TEMPLETON COMPANIES

iD BAY MEADOWS MAIN TRACK INVESTORS, LLC, WHICH WAS RECORDED ON JUNE 29, 2006, UNDER INSTRUMENT NO.

2006-096825, AN EASEMENT IS GRANTED 70 BAY MEADOWS FOR STREET PURPOSES, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT UMITED TO, VEHICULAR INGRESS, EGRESS AND ACCESS OF VEHICLES, BICYCLES AND PEDESTRIANS,
TOGETHER WITH SEWER, UTILITY AND OTHER ASSOCIATED STREET FUNCTIONS, ON, OVER, UNDER AND ACROSS SAID
EASEMENT AREA. SAID EASEMENT AREA TO BE DEDICATED AS PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY TO THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AT
SOME POINT IN THE FUTURE.

A 3” IRON PIPE WITH TAG LS 7139 IS TO BE SET AT INTERIOR PROPERTY CORNERS, AS SHOWN HEREON.

OWNER INTENDS TO RESERVE THOSE PORTIONS OF THE LAND IDENTIFIED AS "G..A.” (GATEWAY IMPROVEMENT AREA)
FOR PROJECT GATEWAY RELATED IMPROVEMENTS SUCH AS SIGNS, MONUMENTS AND LANDSCAPING.

OWNER INTENDS TO RESERVE THOSE PORTIONS OF THE LAND AS DELINEATED AND EMBRACED WITHIN THE BOUNDARY
OF THE MAP AS "OPEN SPACE/VIEW CORRIDOR EASEMENT” FOR PUBLIC ACCESS CONSISTENT WITH THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE Il PROJECT APPROVALS, THE RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES GOVERNING THE USE OF THESE AREAS ARE
FURTHER DEFINED IN THE PROJECT COVENANTS, CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS, RECORDED ON AUGUST 25, 2010, AS
INSTRUMENT NO. 2010-095916, OFFICIAL RECORDS OF SAN MATEO COUNTY.

QWNER INTENDS TO RESERVE THOSE PORTIONS OF THE LAND AS DELINEATED: AND EMBRACED WITHIN THE BOUNDARY
OF THE MAP AS "GARDEN WALK" ON LOT 2 OF BLOCK 4 FOR PUBLIC ACCESS CONSISTENT WITH THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE || PROJECT APPROVALS. THE RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES GOVERNING THE USE OF THESE AREAS ARE
FURTHER DEFINED IN THE PROJECT COVENANTS, CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS, RECORDED AUGUST 25, 2010, AS
INSTRUMENT NO. 2010-095916, OFFICIAL RECORDS OF SAN MATEO COUNTY.

THE PROPERTY COVERED BY THIS MAP IS SUBJECT 10 THE BAY MEADOWS PHASE {I DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT, DATED
NOVEMBER 21, 2005, THE BAY MEADOWS PHASE Il SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT, ADOPTED BY THE CITY ON NOVEMBER

7, 2005 (the "SPA"), AND RELATED CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL (COMLECTIVELY THE "PROJECT APPROVALS"),
CONSISTENT WITH THE PROJECT APPROVALS, THE MAXIMUM DENSITY OR SQUARE FOOTAGE AND: NUMBER OF UNITS
PER BLOCK ARE:

BLOCK 3 23 DU/AC, 156 RESIDENTIAL UNITS
BLOCK 4 43 DU/AC, 71 RESIDENTIAL UNITS
BLOCK 5 17 DU/AC, 76 RESIDENTIAL UNITS
BLOCK 6 50 DU/AC, 54 RESIDENTIAL UNITS
BLOCK 8 = 18 du/Ac, 74 RESIDENTIAL UNITS - * *

PURSUANT TO THE PROJECT APPROVALS, THE AMOUNT OF DEVELOPMENT ALLOCATED TO A PARTICULAR BLOCK MAY BE
INCREASED OR DECREASED AS LONG AS: (1). THE OVERALL AGGREGATE MAXIMUM PROGRAM FOR ALL BLOCKS IS
CONSISTENT WITH THE SPA; (2) THE MAXIMUM AGGREGATE NET RESIDENTIAL DENSITY, FOR ANY INDIVIDUAL BLOCK IN
THE RESIDENTIAL PARCEL, AS DEFINED IN THE SPA, IS 50 DU/ACRE; AND (3) TRANSFERS OF DENSITY OR UNITS
AMONG BLOCKS SHALL BE EVIDENCED BY A RECORDED AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE OWNER OF THE LOT OR BLOCK
RELINQUISHING DENSITY AND THE OWNER OF THE LOT OR BLOCK RECIEVING DENSITY, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
PROJECT APPROVALS, WITHOUT FURTHER AMENDMENT TO THIS MAP,

CONDOMINIUM PLANS MAY BE RECORDED ON THE LOTS AND BLOCKS CREATED HEREON WITHOUT FURTHER CITY
APPROVAL PURSUANT TO THE AUTHORITY OF THE SUBDIVISION MAP ACT SECTION 66427(e). ANY ADDITIONAL
SUBDMISIONS OF THE LOTS AND BLOCKS CREATED HEREON (OTHER THAN THE CONDOMINIUM PLAN) ARE SUBJECT TO
CITY REVIEW AND APPROVAL.

DENSITY CHANGES. TRANSFERS OF DENSITY OR UNITS AMONG BLOCKS SHALL BE EVIDENCED BY A RECORDED
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE OWNER OF THE LOT OR BLOCK RELINQUISHING DENSITY AND THE OWNER OF THE LOT OR
BLOCK RECEIVING DENSITY, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROJECT APPROVALS, AND WITHOUT FURTHER AMENDMENT TO
THIS MAP REQUIRED. BECAUSE DENSITY TRANSFERS WERE CONTEMPLATED IN THE SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT, THE
CITY'S DENSITY TRANSFER ORDINANCE WILL NOT APPLY. HOWEVER, AN AMENDMENT TO THE SPAR WILL BE REQUIRED
IF THE DENSITY ALLOCATED TO ANY BLOCKS CHANGE FROM THE DENSITIES SHOWN IN THE SPAR.

PURSUANT TO THE AUTHORITY OF SECTION 66427(e) OF THE CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE, THE PARCELS OF REAL
PROPERTY CONTAINED ON THE WITHIN MAP MAY BE FURTHER SUBDIVIDED BY WAY OF MULTIPLE CONDOMINIUM PLANS,
WITHOUT THE NEED TO OBTAIN FURTHER CITY APPROVAL, TO ACCOMODATE PHASED SALES.

BAY MEADOWS PHASE II, NO. 2

FOR COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM PURPOSES
CONSISTING OF NINE (9) SHEETS
BEING A SUBDIMSION OF BLOCK 3 AND A PORTION OF THAT DESIGNATED REMAINDER AS SHOWN ON
THAT CERTAIN MAP ENTITLED "BAY MEADOWS PHASE ll, NO. 1” AS SAID MAP WAS RECORDED ON
AUGUST 25, 2010 IN BOOK 137 OF MAPS, AT PAGES 37-46, SAN MATEO COUNTY OFFICIAL RECORDS

‘AND LYING ENTIRELY WITHIN THE

CITY OF SAN MATEO
SAN MATEO COUNTY, STATE OF CALIFORNIA

JANUARY 2011

JMU. Weiss, INC.

Civil Engineering ~ Surveying ~ Land Planning
150 S. Almaden Blvd, Suite 700 San Jose, CA 95113

SHEET 4 OF 9

MH JOBf 4542

49 of 445


--- page 50 ---
LANDS OF
SAN MATEO COUNTY
2992 OR 506

FRANKLIN PARKWAY

PARCEL A
76 M 6

PARCEL B
76 M6

PARCEL D

LEGEND & ABBREVIATIONS:
EXISTING MONUMENT, BK 129 PG 47-57
EXISTING MONUMENT, BK 130 PG 9-15
STREET MONUMENT TO BE SET, LS 7139
STREET MONUMENT, SEE NOTE #2
RECORD IRON PIPE, PER 129 M 47
3/4" IRON PIPE TO BE SET, LS 7139
3/4” IRON PIPE, SEE NOTE #2
EXISTING MONUMENT LINE/CENTERLINE
NEW MONUMENT LINE/CENTERLINE
EXISTING DEVELOPMENT BOUNDARY LINE
DISTINCTIVE BOUNDARY LINE
NEW BLOCK UNE
NEW LOT LINE
EXISTING EASEMENT LINE
NEW EASEMENT LINE
. EXISTING
INSTR. NO. INSTRUMENT NUMBER
PG&E PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC
PTeT PACIFIC TELEPHONE & TELESYS COMPANY

aivasTiH

auvAa1no8

DERBY

LANDING

KYNE STREET

NEE.
GLA
PAE.
PSE.
S.DE.
SWE

INGRESS AND EGRESS EASEMENT
GATEWAY IMPROVEMENT AREA
PUBLIC ACCESS EASEMENT
PUBLIC SERVICE EASEMENT
STORM DRAIN EASEMENT
SIDEWALK EASEMENT

SNNAAV

SOUTH DELAWARE STREET

NOTE:

4. ALL TIES TO THE MONUMENT LINE ARE PERPENDICULAR TO THE
MONUMENT LINE, BUT NOT NECESSARILY PERPENDICULAR TO THE
PROPERTY LINE.

PACIFIC 2, MONUMENT/ IRON PIPE NOT YET SET, TO BE SET PER "BAY

EASEMENT NOTES:
1, FOR CLARITY, THE FOLLOWING EASEMENTS ARE SHOWN ON THIS SHEET ONLY. THESE EASEMENTS STILL ENCUMBER THE

‘SUBJECT PROPERTY. SOME EASEMENTS ARE TO BE ABANDONED OR QUITCLAIMED BY SEPARATE INSTRUMENT AT A FUTURE DATE:

SANITARY SEWER EASEMENT, RECORDED ON APRIL 22, 1954, IN REEL 2570, IMAGE 604
UNDERGROUND CONDUIT EASEMENT, RECORDED AUGUST 16, 1955, IN REEL 2857, IMAGE 675
UNDERGROUND CONDUIT EASEMENT, RECORDED JANUARY 10, 1975, REEL 6765, IMAGE 637
WATER LINE EASEMENT, RECORDED ON MARCH 15, 1957, IN REEL 3189, IMAGE 574
PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC EASEMENT, RECORDED ON JULY 6, 1989, UNDER INSTRUMENT NO, 89088176
STORM DRAIN EASEMENT, RECORDED ON JUNE 11, 1999, UNDER INSTRUMENT NO. 99~-101829
PUBLIC ACCESS AND LANDSCAPE EASEMENT, AS SHOWN ON BAY MEADOWS NO. 1, RECORDED ON JUNE 8, 1999, IN
BOOK 129 OF MAPS, PAGES 47-57
H. PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC EASEMENT, RECORDED ON JULY 8, 1988, UNDER INSTRUMENT NO. 88071668
|. SIDEWALK EASEMENT, RECORDED ON JUNE 8, 1999, IN BOOK 129 OF MAPS, AT PAGES 47-57

A PORTION OF THE FOLLOWING EASEMENT ENCUMBERING THE SUBJECT PROPERTY WAS QUITCLAMED BY DEED RECORDED ON
MARCH 2, 2009, UNDER INSTRUMENT NO. 2009-02168.)
J." PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC EASEMENT, RECORDED ON AUGUST 22, 1961, IN REEL 40, IMAGE 434

PURSUANT 10 THE SUBDMSION MAP ACT, SECTION 66434(g), THAT STORM DRAIN EASEMENT ENCUMBERING THE DESIGNATED
REMAINDER, AS SHOWN ON SHEET 8 OF THAT MAP ENTITLED "BAY MEADOWS, PHASE 'l, MAP NO. 1°, AS SAID MAP WAS FILED
FOR RECORD ON AUGUST 25, 2010 IN BOOK 137 OF MAPS, AT PAGES 37-46, SAN MATEO COUNTY OFFICIAL RECORDS, IS
HEREBY ABANDONED BY THIS MAP AND IS NOT SHOWN HEREON. A NEW REVISED STORM DRAIN EASEMENT {S BEING DEDICATED
BY THIS MAP.

Ans

PENINSULA JOINT POWERS coop
EASEMENT NOTES (cont'd):

4, FOR CLARITY, THOSE EASEMENTS DEDICATED ON THE MAP ENTITLED "BAY MEADOWS, PHASE Ii,
MAP NO. 1” (137 M 37) ARE NOT SHOWN HEREON. THOSE EASEMENTS, UNLESS OTHERWISE
ABANDONED/QUITCLAIMED, STILL ENCUMBER THE DEVELOPMENT. -

nil

BOULEVARD _ —-—— MEADOWS PHASE Il, NO. 1”,

BAY MEADOWS PHASE Il, NO. 2

FOR COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM PURPOSES
CONSISTING OF NINE (9) SHEETS
BEING A SUBDIVISION OF BLOCK 3 AND A PORTION OF THAT DESIGNATED
REMAINDER AS SHOWN ON THAT CERTAIN MAP ENTITLED "BAY MEADOWS PHASE
1, NO. 1” AS SAID MAP WAS RECORDED ON AUGUST 25, 2010 IN BOOK 137
OF MAPS, AT PAGES 37-46, SAN MATEO COUNTY OFFICIAL RECORDS
AND LYING ENTIRELY WITHIN THE

CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

FEBRUARY 2011

JME WEIss, INC.

Civil Engineering ~ Surveying ~ Land Planning
150 S. Almaden Blvd., Suite 700 San Jose, CA 95115

SHEET 5 OF 9
ut 0B 4542

50 of 445



--- page 51 ---
HP TO BE SET
LS 7139
PER NOTE #2

N 16°55'00" E 72.67%

N 29°04'59" E 20.18"

~
S.D.E. NS
. SEE DETAIL ‘A’

-~
aN
=

-QVS
Zi01

“0

BLOCK 3
SEE SHEET 9

a) ]
_

~ gas SHON
. WN

S.D.E.
SEE DETAIL ‘A’

E 256.69" (M—M)

BLOCK |
137 M 37°

N 55°54’01"

DERBY AVENUE

N 81°57'15" E 2.00"
57.43"

SEE SHEET 7

LEGEND & ABBREVIATIONS:
EXISTING MONUMENT, BK 129 PG 47-57
EXISTING MONUMENT, BK 130 PG 9~15
STREET MONUMENT TO BE SET, LS 7139
STREET MONUMENT, SEE NOTE #2
RECORD IRON PIPE, PER 129 M 47
3/4” IRON PIPE TO BE SET, LS 7139
3/4” IRON PIPE, SEE NOTE #2
EXISTING MONUMENT LINE/CENTERLINE
NEW MONUMENT LINE/CENTERLINE
——— = — = —— EXISTING DEVELOPMENT BOUNDARY LINE
—— — — —— _ DISTINCTIVE BOUNDARY LINE
NEW BLOCK LINE
NEW LOT LINE
EXISTING EASEMENT LINE
NEW EASEMENT UNE
EXISTING
INSTRUMENT NUMBER
PACIFIC GAS &e ELECTRIC
PACIFIC TELEPHONE & TELESYS COMPANY
INGRESS AND EGRESS EASEMENT
GATEWAY IMPROVEMENT AREA
PUBLIC ACCESS EASEMENT
PUBLIC SERVICE EASEMENT
STORM DRAN EASEMENT
SIDEWALK EASEMENT

DETAIL'A
STORM DRAIN EASEMENT (S.D.E.

. BLOCK 5,LOT2
NTS

BLOCK 5 ier
LOT 1

A=3.8644 AC

PAE.
Sw SEE DETAIL 'B’
x

g NOO18

NOTE:

1. ALL TIES TO THE MONUMENT LINE ARE PERPENDICULAR TO THE
MONUMENT LINE, BUT NOT NECESSARILY PERPENDICULAR TO THE
PROPERTY LINE.

gorges 3 .9¥,9.05 N
g \33HS 33S

2. MONUMENT/ IRON PIPE NOT YET SET, TO BE SET PER "BAY
MEADOWS PHASE ll, NO. 1°.

BAY MEADOWS PHASE Il, NO. 2

FOR COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM PURPOSES
CONSISTING OF NINE. (8) SHEETS
BEING A SUBDMSION OF BLOCK 3 AND A PORTION OF THAT DESIGNATED
REMAINDER AS SHOWN ON THAT CERTAN NAP ENTITLED "BAY MEADOWS PHASE
Il NO. 1” AS SAD MAP WAS RECORDED ON AUGUST 25, 2010 IN BOOK 137
OF MAPS, AT PAGES 37~46, SAN MATEO COUNTY OFFICIAL RECORDS

AND LYING ENTIRELY WITHIN THE
CTY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY

STATE OF CALIFORNIA

LOT 1

“BLOCKS =n pag,

$ 08°02'45" E 46.00" j s ae 200 DETAIL 'B'
ry - PEDESTRIAN ACCESS EASEMENT (P.A.E.

N 0802'45" W 380.38" BLOCK 5

FEBRUARY 2011

WEISS, INC.

J

Civil Engineering ~ Surveying ~ Lond Planning
150 S. Almaden Blvd. Suite 700 Son Jose, CA 95113

BAZE ROAD

SHEET 6 OF 9
JH OBB 4542

51 of 445



--- page 52 ---
~ 39,
Bo
¢
=

&,
es
>
2
Res

/

/

E 256.69" (M—M)

N 55°54°01"

_ N_58'54'01" E 299.13"
22557 :

—o
26.00"
| 38.00"

5 Sips

age RDU? ty >

6
18525, © 9s

N

ds) x

~&
logge RP
ies SO
" ™~

(NEIGHBORHOOD PARK)

A=1.4164 AC R=15.00"

A=90'00'00" 1=23.56"

N 340559" W 12,00" N 775430" E (R)
N 65°27°47" E (R) R=56.00' A=0B05'31"—L=7.91"
5657°43" E (R) S 160816" E (R)
N 34°05'59" W 203.85"

| 89.

(60° ROW)

AVENUE
— 346.97' (M—M)

DERBY
~N 555401"

N 55°54’01" E 296.78"

. 100° P.S.E, & SETBACK:

GARDEN WALK
A=0.0924 AC

+ ne PAE.

sa 10.0’ PSE_|
sr! & SETBACK

I
BLOCK

[10.0 PSE
& SETBACK

N 55°54'01” E 315.49'(M—M)

BLOCK 6

A=1,089+ AC

LOT 1
A=1.6494 AC

S$, 55'54’01" W 251.47"
S$ .55°54’01" W 236.05"

LANDING AVENUE (0' Row)

55'54'01" E 239.47"
CL OF P.A:E.

+ iv
b 149399
N 3405'59" W 299.98"
KYNE STREET © (35 Row), .
oy
N 3405'59" W 997.02’ (TOTAL)

$ 3¢05'50" E | 185.64"

LANDING AVENUE

R=5.00"
4=90'00'00"
L=7.85

S 08'02'45" E (R)

E 5.00%

N 81°57°15"

BLOCK 6

DETAIL 'A
SIDEWALK EASEMENT (S.W.E.

BLOCK 6

Gwior) .66'94e 3 {9v,L5.09 N

~'S 3605'58" E 367.98 (M-M) i Ss 340559" E 203.32 (M-H)

N 81°57'15" E (R)

LEGEND & ABBREVIATIONS:

©
@
©
®

INSTR. NO.
PORE
PI&T
LEE.
GLA.
PAE.
PSE.
S.D.E.
SWE

NOTE:

EXISTING MONUMENT, BK 129 PG 47-57
EXISTING MONUMENT, BK 130 PG 9-15
STREET MONUMENT TO BE SET, LS 7139
STREET MONUMENT, SEE NOTE #2
RECORD IRON PIPE, PER 129 M 47
3/4” IRON PIPE TO BE SET, LS 7139
3/4 IRON PIPE, SEE NOTE #2
EXISTING MONUMENT LINE/ CENTERLINE
NEW MONUMENT UNE/CENTERLINE
EXISTING DEVELOPMENT BOUNDARY LINE
DISTINCTIVE BOUNDARY LINE

NEW BLOCK LINE

NEW LOT LINE

EXISTING EASEMENT LINE

NEW EASEMENT LINE

EXISTING

INSTRUMENT NUMBER

PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC

PACIFIC TELEPHONE & TELESYS COMPANY
INGRESS AND EGRESS EASEMENT
GATEWAY IMPROVEMENT AREA

PUBLIC ACCESS EASEMENT

PUBLIC SERVICE EASEMENT

STORM DRAIN EASEMENT

SIDEWALK EASEMENT

1. ALL TIES TO THE MONUMENT LINE ARE PERPENDICULAR TO THE
MONUMENT LINE, BUT NOT NECESSARILY PERPENDICULAR TO THE

PROPERTY LINE.

2. MONUMENT/ IRON PIPE NOT YET SET, TO BE SET PER "BAY
MEADOWS PHASE Il, NO. 1".

BAY MEADOWS PHASE II, NO. 2

FOR COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM PURPOSES
CONSISTING OF NINE (9) SHEETS
BEING A SUBDMISION OF BLOCK 3 AND A PORTION OF THAT DESIGNATED
REMAINDER AS SHOWN ON THAT CERTAIN MAP ENTITLED "BAY MEADOWS PHASE

I, NO. 1” AS SAID MAP WAS RECORDED ON AUGUST 25, 2010 IN BOOK 137
OF MAPS, AT PAGES 37-46, SAN MATEO COUNTY OFFICIAL RECORDS

AND LYING ENTIRELY WITHIN THE

CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

FEBRUARY 2011

| MUG WEISS, INC.

Civil Engineering ~ Surveying ~ Land Planning
150 S Almaden Blvd., Suite 700 Son Jose, CA 95115

SHEET 7 OF 9

MH JOBS 4542

52 of 445

DESIGNATED REMAINDER



--- page 53 ---
| BLOCK 5
SEE SHEET 6

925.05 N

in / BOvdS NadO

ov: FLI9'O=V
zZ101
gvgce 3 ov LOS N

go'see 3

ANaWaSsv3 yourNod M3

ZA BLOCK 8

. LOT 1
i A=3,5714 AC

ye P.S.E. & SETBACK
~

P.AE
S .
awe SEE DETAIL 'D'
~ SON

. SS

| BLOCK 6
SEE SHEET 7

DESIGNATED REMAINDER

LOT 1
—— BLOCK 8
2.0' PAE.
s osores' € gon’ |
48,00
N 08°02'45" W 442,57"

N 81°57°15" E 2.00" $ 81°57'15" W 2.00"
441.70"

252.87"

BAZE ROAD

DETAIL ‘D'

PEDESTRIAN ACCESS EASEMENT (P.A.E.)
BLOCK 8
NS

S 45°20'51" E (R)

S 864047" W 172.10"
N 0319'13" W (R)
FRANKLIN PARKWAY

DETAIL 'B'
INGRESS & EGRESS EASEMENT (1.E.E.
BLOCK 8

R=345.50" |
seaseest \/
1=35.73
/
/

N 1639'58" W @~ sy

N 08'08'24" W
30.31

N 15°58'50” W (R)

BLOCK 8

FRANKLIN
PARKWAY

DETAIL'A
GATEWAY IMPROVEMENT AREA (G.1.A.)

N

T1608

SOVOL

DESIGNATED
REMAINDER

—,
Ss

LEGEND & ABBREVIATIONS: _.

EXISTING MONUMENT, BK 129 PG 47-57
EXISTING MONUMENT, BK 130 PG 9-15
STREET MONUMENT TO BE SET, LS 7139
STREET MONUMENT, SEE NOTE #2
RECORD IRON PIPE, PER 129 M 47
3/4 IRON PIPE TO BE SET, LS 7139
3/4" IRON PIPE, SEE NOTE #2
EXISTING MONUMENT LINE/CENTERLINE

NEW MONUMENT LINE/CENTERLINE

eis es eet eminm EXISTING DEVELOPMENT BOUNDARY LINE

—— — — —— _ DISTINCTIVE BOUNDARY UNE

NEW BLOCK LINE

NEW LOT LINE

EXISTING EASEMENT LINE

NEW EASEMENT: LINE

EXISTING

INSTRUMENT NUMBER

PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC
PACIFIC TELEPHONE & TELESYS COMPANY
INGRESS AND EGRESS EASEMENT
GATEWAY IMPROVEMENT AREA

PUBLIC ACCESS EASENENT
PUBLIC SERVICE EASEMENT
STORM DRAIN: EASEMENT

SIDEWALK EASEMENT ..

eo @@OB®

INSTR. NO.
PCRE
PI&T
LEE
GLA.

PAE.
PSE.
SDE.

SWE.

NOTE:

4. ALL TIES TO THE MONUMENT LINE ARE PERPENDICULAR TO THE

MONUMENT LINE, BUT NOT NECESSARILY PERPENDICULAR TO THE
PROPERTY LINE.

2, MONUMENT/ IRON PIPE NOT YET SET, TO BE SET PER "BAY
MEADOWS PHASE ll, NO. 1”.

BAY MEADOWS PHASE II, NO. 2

FOR COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM PURPOSES
CONSISTING OF NINE (9) SHEETS
BEING A SUBDMSION OF BLOCK 3 AND A PORTION OF. THAT DESIGNATED
REMAINDER AS SHOWN ON THAT CERTAIN MAP ENTITLED "BAY MEADOWS PHASE
ll, NO. 1” AS SAID MAP WAS RECORDED ON AUGUST 25, 2010 IN BOOK 137
OF MAPS, AT PAGES 37-46, SAN MATEO COUNTY OFFICIAL RECORDS

AND LYING ENTIRELY WITHIN THE
CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY

STATE OF CALIFORNIA

FEBRUARY 2011
Civil Engineering ~ Surveying ~ Land Planning

BLOCK 8

N 031913" W (R)
=5.00-

A=851 re \,
l=7.44°
. 4

N 0802'45" W 4.60" /

FRANKLIN PARKWay

BAZE ROAD

WEISS, INC.

DETAIL 'C’

150 S, Almaden Blvd., Suite 700 San Jose, CA 95113
SIDEWALK EASEMENT (S.W.E.
BLOCK 8 SHEET 8 OF 9
__NB sw JOB 4542

53 of 445


--- page 54 ---
S.D.E. BY SEPARATE INSTRUMENT

PARCEL A
76 M5

LEGEND & ABBREVIATIONS:
| . pak Ah . . = ‘ y -“\ . » N 1655'00" E EXISTING MONUMENT, BK 129 PG 47-57
| - 0 q 72.67" (TOTAL) EXISTING MONUMENT, BK 130 PG 9-15
, 4 \ STREET MONUMENT TO BE SET, LS 7138
Sean Gara) j “. \ STREET MONUMENT, SEE NOTE #2
BLOCK 3 BLOCK5 | BLOCKS RECORD IRON PIPE, PER 129 M 47
O15 SWE (129 W 47) F tort 3/4" IRON PIPE TO BE SET, LS 7139
-_ @ ° , 3/4" IRON PIPE, SEE NOTE #2
- ‘ EXISTING MONUMENT LINE/CENTERLNE
EX. 15.0''S.DE (137 M 37) i NEW MONUMENT LINE /CENTERLINE
Shey DETAIL'A EXISTING DEVELOPMENT BOUNDARY LINE
4 SOY, STORM DRAIN EASEMENT (S.D.E.) DISTINCTIVE BOUNDARY LINE
fe 2 . . BLOCK 3 -_ NEW BLOCK LINE
ws —————— _ NEW LOT LINE
EXISTING EASEMENT LINE
; NEW EASEMENT UNE
R=412.49" pe SE J . EXISTING
TT Le SS INSTR. NO. INSTRUMENT. NUMBER
PCE PAOIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC
Prat PACIFIC TELEPHONE & TELESYS COMPANY
Seg LEE. INGRESS AND EGRESS EASEMENT
», \ ~ ¥ iy, S2aL GA GATEWAY IMPROVEMENT AREA
H ‘ OSY wr PAE. PUBLIC ACCESS EASEMENT
PSE. PUBLIC. SERVICE. EASEMENT
SDE. STORM DRAIN EASEMENT
SME, SIDEWALK EASEMENT

BLOCK 3
A=6.774 AC

: 4 (137 M 37) ; NOTE

io . 1. ALL TIES 10 THE MONUMENT LINE ARE PERPENDICULAR TO THE
i : ee ‘ ; MONUMENT LINE, BUT NOT NECESSARILY PERPENDICULAR TO THE
' ae \ PROPERTY LINE,

2. MONUMENT/ IRON PIPE NOT YET SET, 10 BE SET PER "BAY
BLOCK 5 ; MEADOWS PHASE Il, NO. 1”

\ SEE SHEET 6

EX. 10.0° PSE. & SETBACK (137 M a \ BAY MEADOWS PHASE ll, NO. 2

\ N 57°31'58" W (R) R= 270.00’ A=2712'56" L=128.25" f
a! EX. 10.0' PS.E. & SETBACK (137 M 37) FOR COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM PURPOSES

EX. PAE. (137 M 37) CONSISTING OF NINE (9) SHEETS
BEING A SUBDMSION OF BLOCK 3 AND A PORTION OF THAT DESIGNATED

~
N 25S sr ~
? ee ~~ \ REMAINDER AS SHOWN ON THAT CERTAIN MAP ENTITLED "BAY MEADOWS PHASE
. , NO. 1° AS SAID MAP WAS RECORDED ON AUGUST 25, 2010 IN BOOK 137
OF MAPS, AT PAGES 37-46, SAN MATEO COUNTY OFFICIAL RECORDS
AND LYING ENTIRELY WITHIN THE

CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

FEBRUARY 2011

JM WEIss, INC.

Civil Engineering ~ Surveying ~ Land Planning
150 S. Almaden Blvd., Suite 700 San Jose, CA 95115

SHEET 9 OF 9
MH JOB 4542

54 of 445


--- page 55 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. 9 (2015) 
APPROVING THE SUMMARY VACATION OF PORTIONS OF EXISTING 
PUBLIC SERVICES EASEMENT AREAS 
(BAY MEADOWS PHASE II BLOCKS) 
WHEREAS, Bay Meadows Phase II, No. 1 Final Map, which allowed the developer to subdivide 
the property into five blocks, was approved in June 2010; and 
WHEREAS, Bay Meadows Phase II, No. 2 Final Map, which further subdivided the blocks 
within Final Map No. 1, was approved in April 2011; and 
WHEREAS, in accordance with the Conditions of Approval, easements were punted for public 
streets, sidewalks, public service facilities, public access, storm drainage and sanitary sewer facilities; 
and 
WHEREAS, during construction it was determined that the original easement limits were larger 
than needed and infringed on private structures, leading the developer to request an adjustment to the 
public service easements to vacate the excess portion of the easements to accommodate the private 
structures while maintaining adequate right-of-way access to the utilities within the easements; and 
WHEREAS, Streets and Highways Code section 8333(c) provides that a City may vacate excess 
right-of-way when an easement has been determined to be excess by the easement holder and there are 
no other public facilities located within the easement; 
NOW, THEREFORE THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS and RESOLVES that: 
1. 
The City Council exercised its independent judgment certifying the Final EIR for the San 
Mateo Rail Corridor Plan & Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment in April 2005 (with 
respect to the Corridor Plan) and November 2005 (with respect to the Bay Meadows 
Specific Plan Amendment), together with the addendum to that Final EIR released on 
April 3, 2008, and has adopted appropriate California Environmental Quality Act 
(CEQA) findings related to the Project Approvals. These actions are ministerial acts in 
accordance with CEQA Guidelines section 15268 as they fall within the scope of the 
Project Approvals and CEQA finding previously made by the City Council. 
2. 
The summary vacation of portions of existing public services easement areas at all Bay 
Meadows Phase II blocks set forth in Exhibit A attached hereto, is approved, under the 
provisions of Streets and Highways Code section 8333(c). 
RESOLUTION NO. 9 (2015) adopted by the City Council of the City of San Mateo, California, at a 
regular meeting held on January 20, 2015, by the following vote of the City Council: 
55 of 445

--- page 56 ---
Resolution No. 9 (2015) 	
Page 2 of 2 
Bay Meadows Phase II Summary Vacations 
AYES: 	
Council Members Freschet, Matthews and Lim 
NOES: 	
None 
ABSENT: Goethals 
VACANT: I. Council Member 
ATTEST: 
56 of 445

--- page 57 ---
Parcel 3D: 
Commecing at the southerly corner of said Block 3, as said Block is shown on said Map No. 2; 
thence along a westerly line of said Block 3, along the arc of a non-tangent curve to the left 
having a radial bearing of North 74°48'01" East and a radius of 2012.00 feet through a central 
angle of 00°46'56" for an arc length of 27.47 feet to the True Point of Beginning; thence 
continuing along said curve through a central angle of 00'11'20" for an arc length of 6.64 feet; 
thence leaving said westerly line, North 74°02'27" East 4.50 feet; thence along the arc of a non-
tangent curve to the right having a radial bearing of North 74°00'45" East and a radius of 
2016.50 feet through a central angle of 00°11'20" for an arc length of 6.65 feet; thence South 
74°10'22" West 4.50 feet to the True Point of Beginning. 
Parcel 4 
Those certain 10 foot wide strips of land designated and delineated as "10.0' P.S.E.", on Lot 1, Block 4, as 
said Lot is shown on that Final Map entitled "Bay Meadows Phase II, No. 2", (hereinafter referred to as 
Map No. 2), as said map was filed for record on September 28, 2011 in Book 137 of Maps, at Pages 73- 
81, San Mateo County Records. Excepting therefrom the following: 
Parcel 4A:  
Commencing at the southerly corner of said Lot 1, said point being the point of intersection of 
the northwesterly line of Landing Avenue and the northeasterly line of Kyne Street, as shown on 
said Map No. 2; thence along the southwesterly line of said Lot 1, North 34°05'59" West 26.89 
feet to the True Point of Beginning; thence continuing along said southwesterly line, North 
34°05'59" West 18.85 feet; thence leaving said westerly line, North 55°54'01" East 5.00 feet to a 
line parallel with and 5.00 feet distant from said southwesterly line; thence along said parallel 
line, South 34'05'59" East 18.85 feet; thence South 55°54'01" West 5.00 feet to the True Point 
of Beginning. 
Parcel 4B:  
Commencing at the southerly corner of said Lot 1, said point being the point of intersection of 
the northwesterly line of Landing Avenue and the northeasterly line of Kyne Street, as shown on 
said Map No. 2; thence along the southeasterly line of said Lot 1, North 55°54'01" East 4.83 feet; 
thence leaving said southeasterly line, North 34°05'59" West 4.15 feet to a line parallel with and 
4.15 feet distant from said southeasterly line; thence along said parallel line, North 55°54'01" 
East 5.92 feet; thence South 34°05'59" East 4.15 feet to a point on said southeasterly line; 
thence along said southeasterly line, South 55°54'01" West 5.92 feet to the True Point of 
Beginning. 
Parcel 5 
Those certain 10 foot wide strips of land designated and delineated as "10.0' P.S.E.", on Lot 1, Block 5, as 
said Lot is shown on that Final Map entitled "Bay Meadows Phase II, No. 2", (hereinafter referred to as 
Map No. 2), as said map was filed for record on September 28, 2011 in Book 137 of Maps, at Pages 73- 
81, San Mateo County Records. Excepting therefrom the following: 
Commencing at the northwesterly corner of said Lot 1; thence along the westerly line of said Lot 
1, along the arc of a non-tangent curve to the right having a radial bearing of North 76°59'04" 
East through a central angle of 00°00'23" for an arc length of 0.22 feet to the True Point of 
Beginning; thence leaving said westerly line, North 77°01'10" East 3.50 feet; thence along the 
arc of a non-tangent curve to the right having a radial bearing of North 76°59'27" East and a 
05/06/14 	
Sheet 3 of 26 
Prepared By: JIM Weiss, Inc. 
HADrive alobs\4542-Bay Meadows RacetracklPhose II-MapiPSE issu6PSE Descriptions-050614.doc 
57 of 445

--- page 58 ---
N' 3405'59 W 29§M7-7 
BLOCK 4 
LOT 2 
137 M 73 
Ni7-3T-6579"-W—T 297g8 
KYNE STREET 
uj 
EX. 10.0' P.S.E. TO 
> 	
I 	
BE ABANDONED 
▪ 
L.L.i I 
I 
>- 9 
ce 
0 
EX. 10.0' P.S.E. TO 
BE ABANDONED 1 
I L9 
EXCEMON 
PARCEL 413—\ 
u") 
crl 
/ 
II-- —lc, 
`—POC 
‘--EXCEPTION 
PARCEL 4A 
0 	
40' 	
80' 	
160 1 
SCALE: 1* = 80' 
BLOCK 4 
LOT 1 
137 M 73 
EX. 10.0' P.S.E. TO 
BE ABANDONED 
LANDI NG AVENU E 
7 77:77'77'. 7 :377' 
BLOCK 4 
LOT 1 
137 M 73 
r PARCEL 4A 
A=94± SF 
-1 
LOT 2 
S 34'05'59" E 
PARCEL 4B 	
r– 
A=25± SF 
N 5554'01" E 	
I 
5.92' 
N 3405'59" W  
4.15' 
EXCEPTION 
PARCEL 4A & 4B  
NTS 
N 5554'01" E 
5.00' 
18.85' 
TPOB 
KYNE STREET 
55'54'01" W 
5.00' 
26.89' (TE) 
N 34'05'59" W 
299.98' (T) 
4.15' \ 
EXHI BIT A: PARCEL 4 
 
JOB i 6870-01-00 1 
DATE 05/06/14 
SHEET 15 OF 26 
DWG NAME: 11:\Drivo Nob3\4542–Boy Meadows Recetrock\Phose 11–Map\RSE Issue\ 2014 – version 2016\PSE Exhibits–Flots-050614.dwg, LAST EDITED: Tue. Nay 06, 2014 10:41om 
USER: cteves, AutoCad V.20.01 (WS Tech), Microsoft Windows NT Version 6.1 (x64) 
58 of 445

--- page 59 ---
CALIFORNIA WATER SERVICE

Bayshore District 341 North Delaware Street
San Mateo, CA 94401 Tel: (650) 558-7800

November 20, 2020

Whitney Welsch

Wilson Meany

Four Embarcadero Center, Suite 3330
San Francisco, CA 94111:

Re: Vacate Public Service Easement, 2901 E. Kyne Street, San Mateo
Dear Whitney Welsh,

California Water Service (Cal Water) understands that Bay Meadows, the development team of
the property at 2901 E. Kyne Street, San Mateo CA 94603 has submitted (or will soon submit)
to the City of San Mateo (the “City”) a request to summarily vacate the Public Service Easement
depicted on the attached map and more particularly described in the attached legal description
(the “Easement Area’).

Cal Water relocated the two main water laterals to service the building located at 2901 E. Kyne
Street from the corner of Kyne and Landing Streets to off of Kyne and Derby Streets. The two
water main laterals that were formerly located within the easement area were

removed. Accordingly, Cal Water has determined that: (1) the Easement Area has been
superseded by this relocation, (2) there are currently no utility facilities located within the
Easement Area, and (3) there are no utility facilities that are in use and would be affected by
vacation of the Easement Area.

Therefore, Cal Water has no objection to the City’s vacation of the Easement Area. This letter
may be offered to third parties as necessary. If you have any questions regarding the
foregoing, please call me at (650) 558-7862.

Sincerely, ua

Leighton Low
Superintendent
California Water Service
llow@calwater.com
(650) 558-7862 w

(650) 642-4557 m
Quality. Service. Value. C
calwater.com

&nbsp;

59 of&nbsp;445


--- page 60 ---
Exhibit ‘A’
Legal Description
Public Service Easement to be Abandoned

All that certain real property situated in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of
California being described as follows:

Being a portion of Lot 1, Block 4, as said Lot is shown on that Final Map entitled “Bay
Meadows Phase IJ, No. 2”, (hereinafter referred to as Map No. 2), as said map was filed for
record on September 28, 2011 in Book 137 of Maps, at Pages 73-81, San Mateo County Records
and being more particularly described as follows:

Commencing at the southerly corner of said Lot 1, said point being the point of intersection of
the northwesterly line of Landing Avenue and the northeasterly line of Kyne Street, as shown on
said Map No. 2; thence along the southwesterly line of said Lot 1, North 34°05’59” West 26.89
feet to the True Point of Beginning; thence continuing along said southwesterly line, North
34°05°59” West 18.85 feet; thence leaving said westerly line, North 55°54’01” East 5.00 feet to
a line parallel with and 5.00 feet distant from said southwesterly line; thence along said parallel
line, South 34°05’59” East 18.85 feet; thence South 55°54’0]” West 5.00 feet to the True Point
of Beginning.

Said described area containing 94 square feet, more or less.

Attached hereto is an exhibit labeled “Exhibit B ~ Plat to Accompany Legal Description” and by
this reference is made a part hereof.

Kevin R. Weiss Date

10/28/2020 Sheet 1 of 2
Prepared By: JMH Weiss, Inc.
P.\5171 - Bay Meadows - STA 2-4\Survey\Res4 - PSE Abandonment\5171 - PSE Abadonment.doc

&nbsp;
60 of&nbsp;445


--- page 61 ---
&nbsp;

SOME
oars
BS2 3
~~ ee SER
< gat
BLOCK 4 Sees
=o ae
LOT 2 cage
137 M73 & &
r
2
™~

BLOCK 4
LOT 1
137 M 73

DERBY AVENUE

N 55°54’°01” E 239.47’
S 55°54'01" W 239.47"
LANDING AVENUE

LEGEND & ABBREVIATIONS

PROPERTY LINE
SSS EASEMENT LINE
PUBLIC SERVICE EASEMENT

- 7 NN 3 4055 9” w 299 38°, .0.C, POINT OF COMMENCEMENT

KYNE STREET -P.O.B. TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING
137 M 37 BOOK 137 OF PARCEL MAPS, AT PAGE 37

P.S.E. TO BE

| MIE" WEIsS, INC.

BLOCK 4
LOT 1
137 M73

S 340559" E 18.85

LANDING AVENUE

S 55°54'01” W
5.00’

EXHIBIT 'B': PLAT TO ACCOMPANY LEGAL
DESCRIPTION FOR P.S,E, ABANDONMENT

SCALE: AS SHOWN BY: CT

JOB NO. 5171

KYNE STREET PETAL DATE: 10/28/2020

SHEET 2 OF 2

DWG NAME; P:\5171 — Bay Meadows — STA 2—4\Survey\Res4 — PSE Abandonment\5171—-PSE Abandonment Plat.dwg, LAST EDITED: Wed, Oct 28, 2020 7:06pm
USER: cteves, AutoCad V.23.1s (LMS Tech), Microsoft Windows NT Version 10.0 (x64)

61 of&nbsp;445


--- page 62 ---
From:
Whitney Welsch
To:
Karen Magallanes
Cc:
Son Hoang
Subject:
Fwd: [E] RE: Easement Abandonment - 2901 E. Kyne St, San Mateo, CA
Date:
Tuesday, April 20, 2021 2:44:36 PM
Here is the email from Verizon/XO.
Thanks!
Sent from my iPhone
Begin forwarded message:
From: "Auchey, Chad A" <chad.a.auchey@verizon.com>
Date: April 14, 2021 at 5:20:10 AM HST
To: Whitney Welsch <WWelsch@wilsonmeany.com>
Cc: Danny Sullivan <dsullivan@bkf.com>, "Leohner, Stephen T"
<steve.t.leohner@verizon.com>, Ashley Stanley <astanley@bkf.com>
Subject: Re:  [E] RE: Easement Abandonment - 2901 E. Kyne St, San Mateo,
CA
﻿
Whitney,
please reference this email that based on the project boundary maps provided XO takes no exception
to the proposed PAE Abandonment as described. 
Thanks,
On Mon, Apr 12, 2021 at 3:29 PM Whitney Welsch
<WWelsch@wilsonmeany.com> wrote:
Hello Chad,
 
I hope all is well.
 
The City has reviewed your email below and is seeking a statement that, “XO
takes no exception to the proposed PAE Abandonment.”  Can you possibly
reply with that clarification?
 
Best, 
Whitney
62 of 445

--- page 63 ---
From:
Auchey, Chad A
To:
Danny Sullivan
Cc:
Leohner, Stephen T; Whitney Welsch; Ashley Stanley
Subject:
{*Ex} Re: [E] Easement Abandonment - 2901 E. Kyne St, San Mateo, CA
Date:
Monday, January 11, 2021 9:12:16 AM
XO has no facilities within the vicinity of this project.
Thanks,
On Wed, Jan 6, 2021 at 11:25 AM Danny Sullivan <dsullivan@bkf.com> wrote:
Hi Chad & Steve,
BKF is applying to the City of San Mateo for approval to abandon/vacate the existing Public
Service Easement (PSE) at 2901 E. Kyne Street, in San Mateo, as indicated on the attached
exhibits and plans. The City has reviewed the Application and has asked that we obtain
written consent to vacate the PSE. Can you review the attachments and confirm that the PSE
can be vacated in its entirety, with no reservation of easement rights?
Please let me know if you have any questions or comments and are able to provide us with a
confirmation letter by January 15, 2021. I have also attached a word .doc draft letter
response that you are welcome to use if you’d like.
Thank you,
Danny
DANNY SULLIVAN, PE
Senior Project Engineer
BKF ENGINEERS Delivering Inspired Infrastructure
255 Shoreline Drive, Suite 200, Redwood City, CA 94065
d 650.482.6436 dsullivan@bkf.com BKF.com
From: Auchey, Chad A <chad.a.auchey@verizon.com> 
Sent: Tuesday, October 24, 2017 3:32 PM
To: Danny Sullivan <dsullivan@bkf.com>
Cc: Leohner, Stephen T <steve.t.leohner@verizon.com>
Subject: RE: San Mateo, CA - Bay Meadows - Request for Available Existing Utility
Information
XO has no facilities within the vicinity of this project.
Thanks,
Chad
63 of 445

--- page 64 ---
April 19th, 2021 
 
Manuel Valencia 
Project Manager/Infrastructure 
Zayo Group 
6764 Preston Ave, Suite C, Livermore, CA 94551 
manuel.valencia@zayo.com 
Telephone: 925-413-0170 
 
 
 
SUBJECT: PAE Abandonment at 2901 E. Kyne Street, San Mateo Ca 
 
 
 
Dear Whitney Welsch:  
 
 
Zayo Group LLC (“Zayo”) has concluded its review process of our facilities near the following 
address 2901 E. Kyne St, San Mateo, Ca. Zayo does not have any facilities in these locations, 
listed above, and has no objection to abandonment of the Public Utility Easements as shown on 
the attached Drawing, Easement Vacation. 
 
 
 If you need additional information, please feel free to contact me via email or by phone, 
manuel.valencia@zayo.com, 925-413-0170.   
 
 
 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manuel Valencia  
Zayo Group Project Manager & Infrastructure Northern California  
64 of 445

--- page 65 ---
January 27, 2021 
 
 
 
 
To Whom It Is Concerne: 
 
[MCI Verizon] understands that Bay Meadows, the development team of the property at 2901 E. 
Kyne 
Street, San Mateo CA 94603 has submitted (or will soon submit) to the City of San Mateo (the 
“City”) a 
request to summarily vacate the Public Service Easement depicted on the attached map and more 
particularly described in the attached legal description (the “Easement Area”). 
[MCI Verizon] takes no issue with this abandonment and has determined that: (1) there are currently 
no 
utility facilities located within the Easement Area, and (2) there are no utility facilities that are in use 
and 
would be affected by vacation of the Easement Area.  
Therefore, [MCI Verizon] has no objection to the City’s vacation of the Easement Area. 
 
 
Yours sincerely, 
Christopher Hancock 
Engr IV Spec-Ntwk Eng & Ops 
2775 Mitchell Drive, Building 8, Floor 2, Rm 8207K 
Walnut Creek, CA 94598 
 
O (925) 279-6606 
C (925) 407-7319 
christopher.hancock@verizon.com 
 
 
65 of 445

--- page 66 ---
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
Kevin Wun 
Land Management 
111 Almaden Blvd. 
San Jose, CA 95113 
March 15, 2021 
Danny Sullivan 
255 Shoreline Drive, Suite 200 
Redwood City, CA 94065 
RE: Easement Abandonment - 2901 E. Kyne St, San Mateo, CA 
Dear Danny Sullivan: 
Thank you for giving us the opportunity to review the proposed public service easement (“PSE”) 
vacation. This is in response to your letter, dated January 6, 2021, informing PG&E of the proposed 
PSE vacation located at 2901 E. Kyne Street, in San Mateo in the County of San Mateo. 
An investigation indicates that PG&E currently has no utility facilities within the proposed street 
or PSE vacation area.  Therefore, PG&E has no request or objections to the proposed street or 
PSE vacation.   
If you have any questions regarding our response, please contact me. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin Wun 
Land Management 
66 of 445

--- page 67 ---
1
Karen Magallanes
From:
Nickerson, James <james.nickerson@lumen.com>
Sent:
Friday, July 2, 2021 11:31 AM
To:
Whitney Welsch
Cc:
Karen Magallanes
Subject:
RE: Easement Abandonment - 2901 E. Kyne St, San Mateo, CA
Whitney, 
 
Lumen does not have an objection to the vacation of the Public Service Easement of approximately 18.85 feet by 5 foot 
along Kyne Street East as depicted below in the screenshot which is located within the private property.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
67 of 445

--- page 68 ---
From:
Skaro, Aliyah
To:
Danny Sullivan
Subject:
{*Ex} No Facilities: Easement Abandonment - 2901 E. Kyne St, San Mateo, CA
Date:
Thursday, January 7, 2021 9:48:04 AM
Attachments:
image004.jpg
image001.png
Utility Map.pdf
Good Morning,
Thank you for your project notification. LUMEN has reviewed your utility notice dated 01/06/2021
regarding the 184795 CA| Easement Abandonment - 2901 E Kyne St (“Project”). In response to your
inquiry please find the enclosed drawings indicating the approximate location of the LUMEN
telecommunications facilities (the “Facilities”).
X LUMEN Local/National does not have facilities within your proposed construction area.
LUMEN Local/National has facilities within your proposed construction area. Please find the enclosed
drawings indicating the location of the LUMEN telecommunications facilities. Once you have
completed your review, please respond back if LUMEN facilities appear to be in conflict. A LUMEN
engineer will be assigned when engineering plans are ready for review.
LUMEN Local/National facilities are under review by our LUMEN Field Engineer(s). Currently, the
estimated completion date of review is [FCD].
LUMEN Local/National has facilities within your proposed construction zone and do not appear to be in
conflict. When working near our facilities please maintain caution.
LUMEN Local/National is leasing facilities within your proposed construction Zone, which may have
potential conflicts. Please review the attached utility map and contact the utility owner for further
conflict analysis.
LUMEN Local/National facilities have been constructed on private property and/or public right of way
with the authorization of the applicable property owner. Accordingly, LUMEN anticipates full
reimbursement of all costs associated with the adjustment and/or relocation of its facilities prior to
LUMEN performance of any work.
LUMEN Local/National has facilities within your proposed construction zone, but it has been determined
that no relocation will be necessary. However, due to the proximity of your project to our facilities,
a LUMEN representative will be required on-site when construction begins.
LUMEN Local/National The information provided in your initial request is insufficient to determine if the
location of your proposed construction will conflict with our facilities. Please provide additional
detailed location maps, drawings (PDF preferred), and description for further conflict review.
Please contact your State One Call prior to construction service (click link for state specific
requirements).
Any changes or additions to the project plans or parameters should be submitted to Network
Relocations for review of potential new impacts to the LUMEN facilities. Note: the location(s) of
facilities shown on these drawings you receive from us, are only approximate. LUMEN hereby
disclaims any responsibility for the accuracy of this information. Please contact Network Relocations
regarding the above mentioned project if you should have any questions. Please reference the file
number 184795 CA with any future communications.
Thank you for your cooperation!
Aliyah (Al) Skaro (she/her/hers)
Business Analyst
Relocations Department
68 of 445

--- page 69 ---
Lynn Schussel
T: 650-991-5630
AT&T California
ls4524@att.com
359 Washington ST
www.att.com
Room 205
Daly City, CA 94015
January 11, 2021
RE: Vacation of Public Service Easement 2901 E. Kyne Street, San Mateo, CA 94603
To Whom It Is Concerned:
AT&T California dba Pacific Bell Telephone Company understands that Bay Meadows, the development team of
the property at 2901 E. Kyne Street, San Mateo CA 94603 has submitted (or will soon submit) to the City of San
Mateo (the “City”) a request to summarily vacate the Public Service Easement depicted on the attached map and
more particularly described in the attached legal description (the “Easement Area”).
AT&T California dba Pacific Bell Telephone Company takes no issue with this abandonment and has determined
that: (1) there are currently no utility facilities located within the Easement Area, and (2) there are no utility
facilities that are in use and would be affected by vacation of the Easement Area.
Therefore, AT&T California dba Pacific Bell Telephone Company has no objection to the City’s vacation of the
Easement Area.
Sincerely,
Manager – Public Works Coordinator
AT&T Construction and Engineering
69 of 445

--- page 70 ---
SUBJECT: PETITION TO ABANDON RIGHT-OF-WAY  
 
LOCATION: 2901 E. Kyne St San Mateo, County of San Mateo  
 
To whom it may concern:  
WAVE has No Objection to the proposed abandonment of the above- described Right-of-Way. As 
indicated on the enclosed copy of the survey and description of the Right-of-Way that is located near 
the corner of Kyne ST & Landing Ave San Mateo, California.  
 
 
Thanks,  
Ken Hawkins  
Construction Supervisor – SF Bay Area  
wave  
215 Mason Circle  
Concord, CA 94520  
wavebroadband.com  
925 -322-7806 (m)  
khawkins@wavebroadband.com 
70 of 445

--- page 71 ---
Comcast Cable Communications Management, LLC 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3055 Comcast Place 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Livermore, CA 94551  
 
 
 
 
 
 
March 12, 2021 
 
VIA E-MAIL 
WWelsch@wilsonmeany.com  
 
Whitney Welsch 
Wilson Meany 
Four Embarcadero Center, Suite 3330 
San Francisco, CA 94111 
 
 
RE: 
Public Service Easement – 2901 E. Kyne Street, San Mateo, CA 94063 
 
To Whom It May Concern 
 
Comcast understands that Bay Meadows, the development team of the property at 2901 E. Kyne 
Street, San Mateo CA 94603 has submitted (or will soon submit) to the City of San Mateo (the 
“City”) a request to summarily vacate the Public Service Easement depicted on the attached map 
and more particularly described in the attached legal description (the “Easement Area”). 
 
Comcast takes no issue with this abandonment and has determined that: (1) there are currently no 
utility facilities located within the Easement Area, and (2) there are no utility facilities that are in 
use and would be affected by vacation of the Easement Area.  
 
Therefore, Comcast has no objection to the City’s vacation of the Easement Area.  
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Keith Turner 
Regional Vice President, Sales and Marketing 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 951A5D00-FE30-4F63-BFB8-3799B38FF6CF
71 of 445

--- page 72 ---
1
Karen Magallanes
From:
Steven "Steve" Camilleri
Sent:
Thursday, June 17, 2021 2:17 PM
To:
Karen Magallanes
Cc:
Deryk Daquigan; Tracy Scramaglia
Subject:
RE: Bay Meadows RES 4 - PSE Abandonment
Hi Karen, 
All sewer and storm drain lines are in the street, I don’t see any problem with the abandonment of that PSE.  
 
Steve Camilleri 
Public Works Supervisor 
1949 Pacific Blvd, San Mateo, CA 94403  
650‐522‐7354 | Camilleri@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
From: Karen Magallanes <kmagallanes@cityofsanmateo.org>  
Sent: Thursday, June 17, 2021 2:09 PM 
To: Steven "Steve" Camilleri <camilleri@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: RE: Bay Meadows RES 4 ‐ PSE Abandonment 
 
 
 
From: Karen Magallanes  
Sent: Thursday, June 17, 2021 11:32 AM 
To: Deryk Daquigan <ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Steven "Steve" Camilleri <camilleri@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Tracy Scramaglia <tscramaglia@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Bay Meadows RES 4 ‐ PSE Abandonment 
 
Hi Deryk, Steve; 
 
Bay Meadows is proposing the vacation of a small Public Service Easement within RES 4 (2901 E Kyne Street) at the 
corner of Landing and Kyne Street (Please see attached). 
72 of 445

--- page 73 ---
2
Can you please confirm that there are no existing City utilities (Storm/sewer) within this easement and that there are no 
objections to the abandonment (For future use)? 
 
Please let me know if there are any questions. Thank you, 
Karen Magallanes  
Assistant Engineer  | Public Works  
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
O: 650‐522‐7576 
kmagallanes@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
 
 
73 of 445

--- page 74 ---
July 9, 2021 
 
To Whom it May Concern, 
 
Crown Castle Fiber LLC (“Crown Castle”) understands that Bay Meadows, the development team 
of the property at 2901 E. Kyne Street, San Mateo CA 94603 has submitted (or will soon submit) 
to the City of San Mateo (the “City”) a request to summarily vacate the Public Service Easement 
depicted on the attached map and more particularly described in the attached legal description 
(the “Easement Area”). 
 
Crown Castle takes no issue with this abandonment and has determined that: (1) there are 
currently no utility facilities located within the Easement Area, and (2) there are no utility 
facilities that are in use and would be affected by vacation of the Easement Area.   
 
Therefore, Crown Castle has no objection to the City’s vacation of the Easement Area.  
 
Sincerely, 
CROWN CASTLE FIBER LLC 
 
 
 
Joshua S. Trauner 
Senior Counsel, Government Relations 
74 of 445

--- page 75 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4763
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
July 19, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Supply of Sodium Bisulfite – Contract
RECOMMENDATION:
Award a contract with Univar USA Inc. for the supply of sodium bisulfite in the amount of $246,923 including sales tax; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The wastewater treatment plant uses sodium bisulfite as a de-chlorinating reagent in the final wastewater treatment 
process before discharging to San Francisco Bay. The de-chlorination is a requirement of the City’s National Pollutant 
Discharge Elimination System permit. This contract includes the supply and delivery of 183,333 gallons of chemical 
product. 
The City participates in the Bay Area Chemical Consortium along with other municipalities to competitively bid the cost of 
chemicals needed during the treatment of wastewater. The bid results are summarized below.
Contractor
Bid Amount
Contract Amount*
Univar USA Inc.
$1.23
$225,500
Chemurgic
$1.91
$350,167
*Does not include 9.5% sales tax
Based on the low bid of $1.23 per gallon, staff recommends award of the contract to Univar Inc. for the supply of sodium 
bisulfite. The term of the contract is 11 months, and the price is to remain firm for the entire period. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding is budgeted for the supply of chemicals in the Wastewater Treatment Plant operating budget. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This purchase contract is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve 
any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Contract
75 of 445

--- page 76 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Att 2 - BACC Bid Summary
Att 3 - BACC Award Letter
STAFF CONTACT
Michael Sutter, Wastewater Treatment Plant Operations Superintendent 
msutter@cityofsanmateo.org
650 522 7376
Azalea Mitch, Director of Public Works
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7309
76 of 445

--- page 77 ---
City of San Mateo, California 
PURCHASE CONTRACT 
FOR SUPPLY OF SODIUM BISULFITE 
FROM UNIVAR USA INC. 
   August 1, 2021 to June 30, 2022 
THIS CONTRACT (“Agreement” or “Contract”), made and entered into this 
__________________________, by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal 
corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, hereinafter referred to as “CITY”, 
and Univar USA Inc., a corporation, w i t h  offices at 8201 S. 212th, Kent, WA 98032, 
hereinafter r e f e r r e d  to as "SUPPLIER". 
R E C I T A L S: 
(A) City has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize the purchase of certain goods, 
hereinafter described, and the execution of this Contract. 
(B) A notice was duly published for bids for the Contract for the purchase of goods 
hereinafter described. 
(C) After notice duly given, on the date hereof, the CITY awarded the contract for 
the purchase of goods hereinafter described to SUPPLIER. 
IT IS AGREED, as follows: 
1.
Scope of Work.  SUPPLIER shall perform the work as described: SUPPLY OF
SODIUM BISULFITE 25% SOLUTION. 
2.
Contract Price.  CITY shall pay, the SUPPLIER shall accept, in full payment for the
work above agreed to the sum of $246,923 (two hundred forty-six thousand nine hundred 
twenty-three dollars and no cents)., priced at $1.23 per gallon of Sodium Bisulfate 25% 
solution. 
Said price is determined by the prices contained in the Bay Area Chemical Consortium 
(BACC) Bid Tabulation for Bid No. 11-2021, Supply and Delivery of Sodium Bisulfite 25% 
Solution, Open Date: March 18, 2021 at 9:00 A.M PDT and shall be paid as described in this 
Contract.  In the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a reduction of 
those set forth in SUPPLIER's bid and the specifications herein, such work and materials will be 
paid for as described in this Agreement. 
3.
The Contract Documents. The complete Contract consists of the following documents:
This Contract and the BACC Bid Tabulation.  
All rights and obligations of CITY and SUPPLIER are fully set forth and described 
in the Contract documents. 
All of the above-named documents are intended to cooperate, so that any work called 
for in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the same as if 
mentioned in all said documents. The documents comprising the complete Contract will 
77 of 445

--- page 78 ---
hereinafter be referred to as "the Contract documents." In the event of any variation or 
discrepancy between any portion of this Contract and any portion of the other Contract 
documents, this Contract shall prevail. 
 
4.   
Termination.  This Contract may be terminated by mutual consent of both parties or by 
the CITY immediately in the event of  
SUPPLIER’s default or breach of the Contract and upon 60 days written notice without cause. 
Upon receipt of this written notice, SUPPLIER shall stop performance under this Contract as 
directed by the CITY.  If the Contract is terminated, SUPPLIER shall be paid in accordance 
with the terms of the Contract for goods delivered and accepted. 
 
5.   
Schedule.  This is a one-year contract and will cover the period between August 1, 
2021 and June 30, 2022. 
 
6.   
Measurement of Quantities, Material Analysis and Identification.  The SUPPLIER shall 
furnish the Wastewater Treatment Plant Manager a legible copy of a Bill of Lading, Certified 
Analysis indicating SODIUM BISULFITE, Weighmaster's certificate of weight and any 
applicable regulatory documents. Certificates shall be delivered to the Wastewater Treatment 
Plant Manager's designee at the job site upon delivery and before offloading of the 
material. 
 
7.   
Payment. Shall be made on a thirty (30) day net basis upon receipt of monthly 
invoices. 
 
8.   
General.  Except as directed otherwise in these specifications, full compensation for 
completing all of the supplied goods indicated herein is considered to be included in the 
Contract unit prices paid for the various items of work and no separate payment will be 
made therefore. 
 
9.  
Partial and Final Payments.  SUPPLIER shall submit individual invoice for each 
delivery of SODIUM BISULFITE to the City of San Mateo, Wastewater Treatment Plant, 
2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA 94404. The invoice shall contain the following 
information: 
 
a) Purchase order number 
b) Date of delivery 
c) Item description 
d) Cost per gallon and total price 
e) Payment terms to include any prompt payment discount offered 
f) All applicable sales tax 
 
10.  
General Responsibilities.  SUPPLIER shall keep fully informed of all existing, 
adopted and amended federal, state and local laws, ordinances, regulations and orders and 
decrees which in any manner affect those engaged or employed by SUPPLIER in the work, 
or the equipment used by the SUPPLIER, or which in any manner affect the conduct of the 
work by SUPPLIER, and all such orders and decrees of bodies or tribunals having any 
jurisdiction or authority over the same. If any discrepancy or inconsistency is discovered in 
any such law, ordinance, regulation, order or decree, the SUPPLIER shall forthwith report 
the same to the CITY in writing. The SUPPLIER shall at all times observe and comply with 
78 of 445

--- page 79 ---
all such existing, adopted and amended laws, ordinances, regulations and orders. 
 
 
SUPPLIER will be required to furnish and update, as necessary, a list of telephone 
numbers and names of responsible parties to be called on a 24-hour, 7 days per week basis 
in the event of an emergency or unusual operating conditions. 
 
SUPPLIER assumes full responsibility for all transportation, transportation scheduling, 
packing, handling, insurance, and other services associated with delivery of all products. No 
charges for transportation containers, packing, etc., will be allowed the SUPPLIER unless so 
specified in this Contract. 
11.  
Time of Delivery.  SODIUM BISULFITE will be furnished F.O.B. Destination City 
of San Mateo Wastewater Treatment Plant 2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA (i.e., 
Seller/SUPPLIER pays freight charges, owns goods in transit and files any damage claims). 
Deliveries will be made in 3,000-gallon minimum and 5,000-gallon maximum loads. 
 
 
If SUPPLIER is located outside the (650) area code then it is requested to provide a 
toll free telephone number for placing orders and an email address to be used by the CITY to 
send confirmation of order. 
 
 
Deliveries of SODIUM BISULFITE will generally be prescheduled to provide the 
SUPPLIER with at least three (3) days’ notice before delivery must be made, but the 
SUPPLIER must have the ability after notification to deliver the chemical within 24 hours. 
 
 
Orders will be placed by phone and confirmed by email. SUPPLIER must email a 
confirmation of the CITY’s order within 24 hours, unless the CITY requires delivery within 24 
hours then confirmation must be made within 3 hours. In the event the SUPPLIER fails to 
provide the chemicals within 24 hours or other scheduled delivery timeframe and the CITY 
is forced to obtain the chemical from an alternative source all additional CITY cost incurred 
will be made good at the expense of the SUPPLIER, who agrees to pay the costs and charges 
immediately upon demand. 
 
 
Once order is placed and confirmation received the delivery will be accepted at the 
CITY's Wastewater Treatment Plant 24-hours per day. 
 
12.  
 Method of Delivery.  Delivery shall be by truck tank car. The SUPPLIER shall 
provide all unloading equipment including air padding facilities and hoses with appropriate 
fittings for coupling to the CITY's chemical unloading facilities. The unloading facilities have 
standard flange connections; exact size and types are available upon request. All shipping 
containers used shall conform to I.C.C. regulations. 
 
13.  
Rejection.  All shipments of SODIUM BISULFITE will be rejected without the 
following: 
 
a) Bill of Lading 
b) Certified Analysis including Total Reducing Substance (TRS) as 100% Sodium 
Bisulfate 
c) Weighmaster's certificate of weight 
d) Applicable regulatory documents 
 
79 of 445

--- page 80 ---
The CITY may revise shipping instructions as to any goods not as yet shipped. The CITY shall 
have the right to inspect any or all of the goods at SUPPLIER’s place of business or upon receipt 
by the CITY. By reason of its failure to inspect the goods, the CITY shall not be deemed to have 
accepted any defective goods or goods which do not conform to the specifications provided or to 
have waived any of the CITY’s rights or remedies arising by virtue of such defects or non-
conformance. SUPPLIER shall be responsible for payment of shipping for the return of any 
defective goods. Shipping documents and invoices must cite the Purchase Order number. 
 
 
14.  
Material Safety Data Sheet.  Each bidder must furnish a copy of a completed M.S.D.S. 
(Material Safety Data Sheet) with its bid and annually thereafter. Failure to furnish a completed 
M.S.D.S. form will result in rejection of the bid. The CITY has a preference for the M.S.D.S. to 
be submitted in electronic format. The CITY also requires the M.S.D.S. to be sent to the 
receiving location if the product supplied is considered to be a hazardous substance. All City, 
State, or Federal requirements for hazardous substances must be strictly adhered to. 
 
15.  
Training.  SUPPLIER shall provide written instructions regarding the recommended 
methods for cleaning up the chemicals in the event of spills. Such instructions shall include 
any recommended absorbents or chemicals to be used for neutralization, if applicable, and 
recommended tests to be performed, such as pH, to ascertain the effectiveness of the 
neutralization. These instructions will be used by wastewater treatment plant personnel m 
cleaning up small spills associated with leaks in pumps, valves and other appurtenances. 
 
 
SUPPLIER shall provide two (2) classroom sessions annually encompassing a 
minimum of two hours, per session, of classroom instruction at the wastewater plant 
concerning manufacture, chemical properties, transport, safe handling and use of the chemicals 
being provided by SUPPLIER. SUPPLIER shall provide for all costs associated with this 
training. 
 
 
SUPPLIER will obtain all required federal, state, or local licenses or permits for the 
transport of Sodium Bisulfite. 
 
16.  
Performance by Sureties.  In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, 
CITY shall immediately give written notice thereof to SUPPLIER and SUPPLIER's sureties, 
and the sureties shall have the right to take over and perform the Contract, provided, 
however, that if the sureties, within 5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do 
not give CITY written notice of their intention to take over the performance thereof within 5 
days after notice to CITY of such election, CITY may take over the work and prosecute the 
same to completion, by contract or by any other method it may deem advisable, for the 
account, and at the expense of SUPPLIER, and the sureties shall be liable to CITY for any 
excess cost or damages occasioned CITY thereby; and, in such event, CITY may, without 
liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing the work or supply of 
goods, such materials, appliances, plant and other property belonging to SUPPLIER as may 
be on the site of the work and necessary therefor. 
 
17.   
Insurance.   
 
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
80 of 445

--- page 81 ---
1. 
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form 
CG 00 01 12 07 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-
completed operations, personal & advertising injury, with limits no less than 
$2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit applies, either the general 
aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the general 
aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
 
2. 
Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), 
or if Contractor has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 
9), with limit no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property 
damage. 
 
3. 
Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory 
Limits, and Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 
per accident for bodily injury or disease.  
 
4. 
Contractors Pollution Liability and/or Asbestos Pollution Liability and/or 
Errors & Omissions applicable to the work being performed, with a limit no less 
than $2,000,000 per claim or occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate per policy 
period of one year. 
 
 
If the SUPPLIER maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the CITY 
requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the SUPPLIER. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
 
The City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed  officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy 
for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the 
SUPPLIER; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the SUPPLIER including materials, parts or equipment furnished 
in connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the 
form of an endorsement to the SUPPLIER’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 
10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
 
For any claims related to this Contract, the SUPPLIER’s insurance coverage shall be 
primary insurance as respects the City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement 
District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by the CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall 
be excess of the SUPPLIER’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
81 of 445

--- page 82 ---
Notice of Cancellation 
 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, 
except after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to 
the CITY. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
 
SUPPLIER hereby grants to CITY a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer 
of said SUPPLIER may acquire against the CITY by virtue of the payment of any loss under 
such insurance.  SUPPLIER agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect 
this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the CITY has 
received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the 
CITY. The CITY may require the SUPPLIER to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or 
retention or provide proof of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim 
administration, and defense expenses within the retention.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than 
A:VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the CITY. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
 
SUPPLIER shall furnish the CITY with original certificates and amendatory 
endorsements or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this 
clause.  All certificates and endorsements are to be received and approved by the CITY before 
work commences or performance of the Contract commences.  However, failure to obtain the 
required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the SUPPLIER’s obligation to 
provide them.  The CITY reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all required 
insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
 
18. 
Warranties. In addition to any other expressed or implied warranties and unless otherwise 
agreed in writing, SUPPLIER warrants that all products delivered hereunder will be new, 
suitable for use as described, of the grade and quality specified, free from all defects in design, 
material and workmanship; in conformity with all samples, drawings, descriptions and 
specifications furnished; in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and 
regulations, and free of any liens and encumbrances. These warranties shall not be deemed to 
exclude SUPPLIER’s standard warranties or other rights or warranties which the CITY may 
have or obtain. 
 
19.   
Hold Harmless and Indemnity Provision.  SUPPLIER agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, 
82 of 445

--- page 83 ---
liability, damage, and expense arising from performance of this Contract, including claims, 
loss, liability, damage, and expense caused or claimed to be caused by passive negligence of 
City of San Mateo or Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents; provided, however that this provision does not apply to 
claims, loss, liability, damage or expense arising from the sole negligence or willful 
misconduct of City of San Mateo or Estero Municipal Improvement District. SUPPLIER will 
defend City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents, against any such claims. 
 
20. 
Remedies. In the event of SUPPLIER’s breach of this Contract, CITY may take any or 
all of the following actions, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the 
CITY by law: (a) require SUPPLIER to repair or replace such goods, and upon SUPPLIER’s 
failure or refusal to do so, repair or replace the same at SUPPLIER’s expense; (b) reject any 
shipment or delivery containing defective or nonconforming goods and return for credit or 
replacement at SUPPLIER’s option, said return to be made at SUPPLIER’s cost and risk; (c) 
cancel any outstanding deliveries and treat such breach by SUPPLIER as SUPPLIER’s 
repudiation of this contract. In the event of the CITY’s breach hereunder, SUPPLIER’s exclusive 
remedy shall be SUPPLIER’s recovery of the goods or the purchase price payable for goods 
shipped prior to such breach. 
 
21. 
Assignment. SUPPLIER shall not delegate or subcontract any duties and services or 
assign any rights or claims under this Contract without the CITY’s prior written consent. 
 
22.   
Attorney Fees.  Attorney fees in amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and 
in total amount not exceeding $5,000 shall be recoverable as costs (that is, by the filing of a 
cost bill) by prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Contract. The above $5,000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial 
court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals 
or actions. It is the intent that neither party to this contract shall have to pay the other more 
than $5,000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions, to enforce the provisions 
of this Contract. The parties expect and hope there will be no litigation and that any 
differences will be resolved amicably. 
 
23.   
Mediation.  Should any dispute arise out of this Contract, any party may request that it 
be submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. 
The mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of a contract, the 
parties shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration 
Association, the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon 
service. The mediator shall be selected by a "blindfolded" process. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be 
deemed the prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first 
meeting in mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The 
mediation process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until contract  
is reached by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended 
by the parties. 
 
83 of 445

--- page 84 ---
24. 
Governing Law and Venue. This Contract between the parties evidenced hereby or 
attached thereto shall be deemed to be made in the State of California and shall in all respects be 
construed and governed by the laws of that state. In the event of litigation, venue will be in the 
County of San Mateo. 
 
25.   
Provisions Cumulative.  The provisions of this contract are cumulative, and in 
addition to and not in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to CITY. 
 
26.   
Notices.  All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by 
certified mail, postage prepaid. 
 
 
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed as follows:  
  Director of Public Works 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
 
Notices required to be given to SUPPLIER shall be addressed as appears in the 
signature block as shown on the Bidder's Statement. 
 
27.   
Interpretation.  As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular 
includes the plural and vice versa. 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
SUPPLIER and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
SUPPLIER. 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this contract has been duly executed by the parties 
hereinabove named, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
SUPPLIER  
 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO,  
a municipal corporation 
 
 
_________________________________ 
 
_________________________________ 
 
Joe Stanaway, Regional Vice President 
 
Azalea Mitch 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Director 
 
 
*If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 
 
2) Vice President plus an additional corporate 
 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall  
sign below 
 
84 of 445

--- page 85 ---
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER  
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
 
_________________________________ 
_________________________________ 
 
Shawnasey McCarthy, Municipal  
Linh Nguyen, 
Commercial Manager 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
85 of 445

--- page 86 ---
Bay Area Clean Water Agencies
Bid Results for Project 11-2021 SODIUM BISULFITE
Issued on 03/18/2021
Bid Due on April 15, 2021  4:00 PM (PDT)
Exported on 04/15/2021
Section
Description
Central Valley
East Bay
Marin Sonoma Napa
North Bay
Peninsula
Sacramento
South Bay
Central Valley
Peninsula Sacramento
Unit of Measure
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
Univar Solutions USA Inc.
$1.25
$1.21
$1.30
$1.28
$1.23
$1.76
$1.21
$1.75
$1.75
$1.86
Chemurgic
$1.80
$1.85
$1.95
$2.05
$1.91
$2.08
$1.83
$2.83
$2.92
$2.87
2.16 Method of Award
Bids may be awarded to the lowest responsive and responsible bidder meeting the specifications for bulk
loads for the chemical. The lowest responsive bidder will be determined by multiplying the estimated
annual quantity for each participating BACC agency by the bid price for their region and adding up the
9
aggregate cost to all of the participating agencies in the regions. The single bid that results in the lowest
overall cost to the participating agencies as a group will be determined by BACC to be the low bid,
assuming the bid is determined by BACC to be complete and in compliance with the bid requirements.
BACC has the right to delete terms or options from the bid contract documents and reserves the right to
reject any and all bids and to waive irregularities in said bids. The following is a non-exhaustive list of
criteria that BACC may, in its sole discretion, consider in award of the bid:
a. Unit cost of the chemical
b. Product specifications
c. Warranties or standards of quality
d. Capabilities to deliver product throughout the contract term
e. Bidder’s reputation, competency, and previous customer service record
f. Third party hauling company’s reputation, competency, and previous customer service record
(if applicable)
g. Fully executed non-collusion affidavit
SODIUM BISULFITE 25% Solution
SODIUM BISULFITE 40% Solution
86 of 445

--- page 87 ---
PO Box 24055, MS 702 • Oakland, CA 94623 •  www.bacwa.org 
Central Contra Costa Sanitary District • East Bay Dischargers Authority • City of San Jose • East Bay Municipal Utility District • City & County of San Francisco 
 
 
 
 
May 5, 2021 
 
Univar Solutions USA Inc. 
Attn: Jennifer Perras 
8201 S 212th St. 
Kent, WA 98032 
 
RE: Award Contract in Response to Bay Area Chemical Consortium (BACC) Bid No. 11-2021 for 
Supply and Delivery of SODIUM BISULFITE. 
 
Dear Ms. Perras,  
 
We are pleased to advise you that the bid submitted by Univar Solutions USA Inc. 
for Bid No. 11-2021 was determined to be the lowest responsive bid for the supply and delivery of 
SODIUM BISULFITE during the period July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2022. 
 
The participating BACC Agencies should be contacting you shortly to discuss entering into 
contracts with Univar Solutions USA Inc. for their respective facilities.  
 
Bay Area Chemical Consortium sincerely appreciates your efforts and participation in the 
competitive bid process.  
 
If you have any questions, please free to contact me at jdyment@bacwa.org 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Jennifer Dyment  
Assistant Executive Director 
BACWA.org 
as Coordinating Agency for the Bay Area Chemical Consortium  
87 of 445

--- page 88 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4764
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
July 19, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Supply of Ferric Chloride – Contract
RECOMMENDATION:
Award a contract to Thatcher Company of California for the supply of ferric chloride in the amount of $153,940, including 
sales tax; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The wastewater treatment plant uses ferric chloride for the control of hydrogen sulfide formation, an odorous compound, 
in the anaerobic digestion process that produces methane. Controlling hydrogen sulfide levels is a requirement of the Bay 
Area Air Quality Management District permit. This contract includes the supply and delivery of an estimated 184 dry tons 
of chemical product. 
The City participates in the Bay Area Chemical Consortium along with other municipalities to competitively bid the cost of 
chemicals needed during the treatment of wastewater. The bid results are summarized below:
Contractor
Bid Amount
Contract Amount*
Univar Solutions USA Inc.
No Bid
No Bid
Hill Brothers Chemical Co. 
No Bid
No Bid
Thatcher Company of California, Inc.
$764.00
$140,576
Kemira Water Solutions, Inc. 
$777.81
$143,117
Pencco, Inc.
$875.00
$161,000
*Does not include 9.5% sales tax
The unit price bid for Thatcher Company was $764 per dry ton. The term of the contract is 11 months, and the price is to 
remain firm for the entire period. 
Based on the low bid of $764 per dry ton, staff recommends award of the contract to Thatcher Company for the supply of 
ferric chloride.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding is budgeted for the supply of chemicals in the Wastewater Treatment Plant operating budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This purchase contract is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve 
any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
88 of 445

--- page 89 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Contract
Att 2 - BACC Bid Summary
Att 3 - BACC Award Letter
STAFF CONTACT
Michael Sutter, Wastewater Treatment Plant Operations Superintendent
msutter@cityofsanmateo.org
650 522 7376
Azalea Mitch, Director of Public Works
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7309
89 of 445

--- page 90 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
PURCHASE CONTRACT
FOR FERRIC CHLORIDE SUPPLY
FROM THATCHER COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA, INC.
August 1, 2021 to June 30, 2022
THIS PURCHASE AGREEMENT (“Agreement: or “Contract”), made and entered into 
this _________________________, by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal 
corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, hereinafter referred to as “CITY”, 
and Thatcher Company of California, Inc., a California corporation, with offices at PO Box 27407, 
Salt Lake City, UT 84127-0407, hereinafter referred to as “SUPPLIER”.
R E C I T A L S:
(A)
CITY has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize the purchase of certain goods, 
hereinafter described, and the execution of this Contract.
(B)
A notice was duly published for bids for the Contract for the purchase of goods 
hereinafter described.
(C) After notice duly given, on the date hereof, the CITY awarded the 
Contract for the purchase of goods hereinafter described to SUPPLIER.
IT IS AGREED, as follows:
1.
Scope of Work.  SUPPLIER  shall perform the work as described: SUPPLY OF FERRIC 
CHLORIDE 38-42%.
2.
Contract Price.  CITY shall pay, the SUPPLIER shall accept, in full payment for the work 
above agreed not to exceed the sum of $153,940 (one hundred fifty-three thousand nine 
hundred forty dollars and no cents) inclusive of 9.5% sales tax and priced at $764.00 per 
dry ton of Ferric Chloride 38-42%.
Said price is determined by the prices contained in Supplier's SUPPLIER's bid, and shall 
be paid as described in the Solicitation Document Package.  In the event work is performed or 
materials furnished in addition to or a reduction of those set forth in SUPPLIER's bid and the 
specifications herein, such work and materials will be paid for as described in the Solicitation 
Document Package.
3.
The Contract Documents.  The complete Contract consists of the following documents:  
This Agreement and the BACC Bid Tabulation. 
All rights and obligations of CITY and CONTRACTOR SUPPLIER are fully set forth and 
described in the Contract documents.
All of the above-named documents are intended to cooperate, so that any work called for 
in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the same as if mentioned in 
all said documents.  The documents comprising the complete Contract will hereinafter be referred 
to as "the Contract documents."  In the event of any variation or discrepancy between any portion 
of this agreement and any portion of the other Contract documents, this agreement shall prevail.
90 of 445

--- page 91 ---
4.
Termination.  This Contract my be terminated by mutual consent of both parties or by the 
CITY immediately in the event of SUPPLIER’s default or breach of the Contract and upon 60 days 
written notice without cause.  Upon receipt of this written notice, SUPPLIER shall be paid in 
accordance with the terms of the Contract for the goods delivered and accepted.
5.
Schedule.  This is a one-year contract and will cover the period between 
August 1, 2021 and June 30, 2022.
6.
Measurement of Quantities, Material Analysis and Identification.  The SUPPLIER shall 
furnish the Wastewater Treatment Plant Manager a legible copy of a Bill of Lading, Certified 
Analysis indicating FERRIC CHLORIDE, Weighmaster’s certificate of weight and any applicable 
regulatory documents.  Certificates shall be delivered to the Wastewater Treatment Plant 
Manager’s designee at the job site upon delivery and before offloading of the material.
7.
Payment. Shall be made on a thirty (30) day net basis upon receipt of monthly invoices.
8.
General. Except as directed otherwise in these specifications, full compensation for 
completing all of the supplied goods indicated herein is considered to be included in the Contract 
unit prices paid for the various items of work and no separate payment will be made therefore.
9.
Partial and Final Payments.  SUPPLIER shall submit individual invoice for each delivery 
of FERRIC CHLORIDE to the City of San Mateo, Wastewater Treatment Plant, 2050 Detroit 
Drive, San Mateo, CA  94404.  The invoice shall contain the following information:
a) Purchase order number
b) Date of delivery
c) Item description
d) Cost per gallon and total price
e) Payment terms to include any prompt payment discount offered
f)
All applicable sales tax
10.
General Responsibilities.  The SUPPLIER shall keep fully informed of all existing, adopted 
and amended federal, state and local laws, ordinances, regulations and orders and decrees which 
in any manner affect those engaged or employed by SUPPLIER in the work, or the equipment 
used by the SUPPLIER, or which in any manner affect the conduct of the work by SUPPLIER, 
and all such orders and decrees of bodies or tribunals having any jurisdiction or authority over the 
same.  If any discrepancy or inconsistency is discovered in any such law, ordinance, regulation, 
order or decree, the SUPPLIER shall forthwith report the same to the CITY in writing.  The 
SUPPLIER shall at all times observe and comply with all such existing, adopted and amended 
laws, ordinances, regulations and orders.
The SUPPLIER will be required to furnish and update, as necessary, a list of telephone 
numbers and names of responsible parties to be called on a 24-hour, 7 days per week basis in the 
event of an emergency or unusual operating conditions.
SUPPLIER assumes full responsibility for all transportation, transportation scheduling, 
packing, handling, insurance, and other services associated with delivery of all products.  No 
charges for transportation containers, packing, etc., will be allowed the SUPPLIER unless so 
specified in this Contract.
91 of 445

--- page 92 ---
11.
Time of Delivery.  FERRIC CHLORIDE will be furnished F.O.B. Destination City of San 
Mateo   Wastewater    Treatment Plant 2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA (i.e., Seller/SUPPLIER 
pays freight charges, owns goods in transit and files any damage claims).  Deliveries will be made 
in 3,000-gallon minimum and 5,000-gallon maximum loads.  
If SUPPLIER is located outside the (650) area code, then it is requested to provide a toll 
free telephone number for placing orders and an email address to be used by the CITY to send 
confirmation of order.  
Deliveries of FERRIC CHLORIDE will generally be prescheduled to provide the supplier 
with at least three days notice before delivery must be made, but the supplier must have the ability 
after notification to deliver the chemical within 24 hours.
Orders will be placed by phone and confirmed by email.  SUPPLIER must email a 
confirmation of the CITY’s order within 24 hours, unless the CITY requires delivery within 24 
hours then confirmation must be made within three (3) hours.  In the event the SUPPLIER fails to 
provide the chemicals within 24 hours or other scheduled delivery timeframe and the CITY is 
forced to obtain the chemical from an alternative source all additional CITY cost incurred will be 
made good at the expense of the SUPPLIER, who agrees to pay the costs and charges immediately 
upon demand.
Once order is placed and confirmation received the delivery will be accepted at the CITY’s 
Wastewater Treatment Plant 24-hours per day.
12.
Method of Delivery.  Delivery shall be by truck tank car.  SUPPLIER  shall provide all 
unloading equipment including air padding facilities and hoses with appropriate fittings for 
coupling to the CITY’s chemical unloading facilities.  The unloading facilities have standard 
flange connections; exact size and types are available upon request.  All shipping containers used 
shall conform to I.C.C. regulations.
13.
Rejection.  All shipments of FERRIC CHLORIDE will be rejected without the following:
a)
Bill of Lading
b)
Certified Analysis including Total Reducing Substance (TRS) as 100% 
Ferric chloride
c)
Weighmaster’s certificate of weight
d)
Applicable regulatory documents
The CITY may revise shipping instructions as to any goods not as yet shipped. The CITY shall 
have the right to inspect any or all of the goods at SUPPLIER’s place of business or upon receipt 
by the CITY. By reason of its failure to inspect the goods, the CITY shall not be deemed to have 
accepted any defective goods or goods which do not conform to the specifications provided or to 
have waived any of the CITY’s rights or remedies arising by virtue of such defects or non-
conformance. SUPPLIER shall be responsible for payment of shipping for the return of any 
defective goods. Shipping documents and invoices must cite the Purchase Order number.
14.
Material Safety Data Sheet.  Each bidder must furnish a copy of a completed M.S.D.S. 
(Material Safety Data Sheet) with its bid and annually thereafter.  Failure to furnish a completed 
M.S.D.S. form will result in rejection of the bid.  The CITY has a preference for the M.S.D.S. to 
be submitted in electronic format.  The CITY also requires the M.S.D.S. to be sent to the receiving 
92 of 445

--- page 93 ---
location if the product supplied is considered to be a hazardous substance.  All City, State, or 
Federal requirements for hazardous substances must be strictly adhered to.
15.
Training.  SUPPLIER shall provide written instructions regarding the recommended 
methods for cleaning up the chemicals in the event of spills. Such instructions shall include any 
recommended absorbents or chemicals to be used for neutralization, if applicable, and 
recommended tests to be performed, such as pH, to ascertain the effectiveness of the neutralization.  
These instructions will be used by wastewater treatment plant personnel in cleaning up small spills 
associated with leaks in pumps, valves and other appurtenances.
SUPPLIER shall provide two (2) classroom sessions annually encompassing a minimum 
of two hours, per session, of classroom instruction at the wastewater plant concerning manufacture, 
chemical properties, transport, safe handling and use of the chemicals being provided by 
SUPPLIER.  SUPPLIER shall provide for all costs associated with this training.
SUPPLIER will obtain all required federal, state, or local licenses or permits for the 
transport of Ferric chloride.
16.
Performance by Sureties.  In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, CITY 
shall immediately give written notice thereof to SUPPLIER and SUPPLIER’s sureties, and the 
sureties shall have the right to take over and perform the agreement, provided, however, that if the 
sureties, within 5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give CITY written notice 
of their intention to take over the performance thereof within 5 days after notice to CITY of such 
election, CITY may take over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by 
any other method it may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of SUPPLIER, and 
the sureties shall be liable to CITY for any excess cost or damages occasioned CITY thereby; and, 
in such event, CITY may, without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in 
completing the work, such materials, appliances, plant and other property belonging to SUPPLIER 
as may be on the site of the work and necessary therefor.
17.  
Insurance.  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) 
Form CG 00 01 12 07 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including 
products-completed operations, personal & advertising injury, with limits no 
less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit applies, either 
the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.  
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 
1), or if Contractor has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos 
(Code 9), with limit no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and 
property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with 
Statutory Limits, and Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease. 
93 of 445

--- page 94 ---
4.  Contractors Pollution Liability and/or Asbestos Pollution Liability and/or 
Errors & Omissions applicable to the work being performed, with a limit no 
less than $2,000,000 per claim or occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate per 
policy period of one year.
If the SUPPLIER maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the 
CITY requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the 
SUPPLIER.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed  officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy 
for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the 
SUPPLIER; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the SUPPLOER including materials, parts or equipment 
furnished in connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be 
provided in the form of an endorsement to the SUPPLIER’s insurance (at least as broad as 
ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the SUPPLIER’s insurance coverage shall be 
primary insurance as respects the City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement 
District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by the CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall 
be excess of the SUPPLIER’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, 
except after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to 
the CITY.
Waiver of Subrogation
SUPPLIER hereby grants to CITY a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer 
of said SUPPLIER may acquire against the CITY by virtue of the payment of any loss under such 
insurance.  SUPPLIER agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this 
waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the CITY has 
received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer.  
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
94 of 445

--- page 95 ---
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the CITY. 
The CITY may require the SUPPLIER to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention 
or provide proof of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and 
defense expenses within the retention.  
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A: 
VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the CITY.
Verification of Coverage
SUPPLIER shall furnish the CITY with original certificates and amendatory endorsements 
or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All 
certificates and endorsements are to be received and approved by the CITY before work or 
performance of the Contract commences.  However, failure to obtain the required documents prior 
to the work beginning shall not waive the SUPPLIER’s obligation to provide them.  The CITY 
reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including 
endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.
18.
Warranties. In addition to any other expressed or implied warranties and unless otherwise 
agreed in writing, SUPPLIER warrants that all products delivered hereunder will be new, suitable 
for use as described, of the grade and quality specified, free from all defects in design, material 
and workmanship; in conformity with all samples, drawings, descriptions and specifications 
furnished; in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and free 
of any liens and encumbrances. These warranties shall not be deemed to exclude SUPPLIER’s 
standard warranties or other rights or warranties which the CITY may have or obtain.
19.
Hold Harmless and Indemnity Provision. SUPPLIER agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, 
damage, and expense arising from performance of this Contract, including claims, loss, 
liability, damage, and expense caused or claimed to be caused by passive negligence of City of 
San Mateo or Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents; provided, however that this provision does not apply to claims, loss, 
liability, damage or expense arising from the sole negligence or willful misconduct of City of 
San Mateo or Estero Municipal Improvement District. SUPPLIER will defend City of San Mateo 
and Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, 
and agents, against any such claims.
20.
Remedies. In the event of SUPPLIER’s breach of this Contract, CITY may take any or all 
of the following actions, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the CITY 
by law: (a) require SUPPLIER to repair or replace such goods, and upon SUPPLIER’s failure or 
refusal to do so, repair or replace the same at SUPPLIER’s expense; (b) reject any shipment or 
delivery containing defective or nonconforming goods and return for credit or replacement at 
SUPPLIER’s option, said return to be made at SUPPLIER’s cost and risk; (c) cancel any 
outstanding deliveries and treat such breach by SUPPLIER as SUPPLIER’s repudiation of this 
contract. In the event of the CITY’s breach hereunder, SUPPLIER’s exclusive remedy shall be 
95 of 445

--- page 96 ---
SUPPLIER’s recovery of the goods or the purchase price payable for goods shipped prior to such 
breach.
21.
Assignment. SUPPLIER shall not delegate or subcontract any duties and services or assign 
any rights or claims under this Contract without the CITY’s prior written consent.
22.
Attorney Fees.  Attorney fees in amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and in 
total amount not exceeding $5,000 shall be recoverable as costs (that is, by the filing of a cost bill) 
by prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this contract.  The above 
$5,000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or 
otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals or actions.  It is the intent that 
neither party to this contract shall have to pay the other more than $5,000 for attorney fees arising 
out of an action, or actions, to enforce the provisions of this contract.  The parties expect and hope 
there will be no litigation and that any differences will be resolved amicably.
23.
Mediation.  Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it 
be submitted to mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The 
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties 
shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, 
the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The 
mediator shall be selected by a "blindfolded" process.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed 
the prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in 
mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, 
once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the 
parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
24.
Governing Law and Venue. This Contract between the parties evidenced hereby or 
attached thereto shall be deemed to be made in the State of California and shall in all respects be 
construed and governed by the laws of that state. In the event of litigation, venue will be in the 
County of San Mateo.
25.
Provisions Cumulative.  The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition 
to and not in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to City.
26.
Notices.  All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified 
mail, postage prepaid.
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed as follows:
Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403
Notices required to be given to SUPPLIER shall be addressed as appears in the signature block as 
shown on the Bidder's Statement.
96 of 445

--- page 97 ---
27.
Interpretation.  As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes 
the plural and vice versa.
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
SUPPLIER and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
SUPPLIER.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement has been duly executed by the parties 
hereinabove named, as of the day and year first above written.
SUPPLIER 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
a municipal corporation
_________________________________
_________________________________
Craig Thatcher
Azalea Mitch
President
Public Works Director
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
 
_________________________________
 
Linh Nguyen, Assistant City Attorney
97 of 445

--- page 98 ---
Bay Area Clean Water Agencies
Bid Results for Project 06-2021 FERRIC CHLORIDE
Issued on 03/18/2021
Bid Due on April 15, 2021  4:00 PM (PDT)
Exported on 04/15/2021
Section
Description
Central Valley
East Bay
Marin Sonoma Napa
North Bay
Peninsula
Sacramento
South Bay
Tri Valley
Unit of Measure
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
Univar Solutions USA Inc.
no bid
no bid
no bid
no bid
no bid
no bid
no bid
no bid
Hill Brothers Chemical Co.
$1,219.00
$1,126.60
no bid
$1,785.00
no bid
no bid
no bid
no bid
Pencco, Inc
no bid
$950.00
$950.00
no bid
$875.00
$850.00
$950.00
$950.00
Thatcher Company of California, Inc.
$773.00
$731.00
$731.00
$764.00
$764.00
$746.00
$727.05
$731.00
Kemira Water Solutions, Inc
$915.50
$769.15
$785.85
$780.78
$777.81
$761.62
$729.38
$742.45
*Highligted bid prices are only to show the apparent  low bid and should not be construed as any indication that BACC has accepted such bid as responsive; see bid review for award recommendation.
FERRIC CHLORIDE
Per Section 2.16 Method of Award
Bids may be awarded by the participating BACC agencies to the lowest, responsive, and responsible bidder meeting the specifications for bulk loads for the chemical. The lowest responsive bidder will be determined by multiplying the estimated annual quantity 
for each participating BACC agency by the bid price for their region, and adding up the aggregate cost to all of the participating agencies in the regions. The single bid that results in the lowest overall cost to the participating agencies as a group will be 
determined by BACC to be the low bid, assuming the bid is determined by BACC to be complete and in compliance with the bid requirements. BACC has the right to delete terms or options from the bid contract documents and reserves the right to reject any 
and all bids and to waive irregularities of said bids.
98 of 445

--- page 99 ---
PO Box 24055, MS 702 • Oakland, CA 94623 •  www.bacwa.org 
Central Contra Costa Sanitary District • East Bay Dischargers Authority • City of San Jose • East Bay Municipal Utility District • City & County of San Francisco 
 
 
 
 
May 5, 2021 
 
Thatcher Company of California, Inc. 
Attn: Craig N. Thatcher 
PO Box 27407 
Salt Lake City, UT 84127-0407 
 
RE: Award Contract in Response to Bay Area Chemical Consortium (BACC) Bid No. 06-2021 for 
Supply and Delivery of FERRIC CHLORIDE. 
 
Dear Mr. Thatcher,  
 
We are pleased to advise you that the bid submitted by Thatcher Company of California, Inc. 
for Bid No. 06-2021 was determined to be the lowest responsive bid for the supply and delivery of 
FERRIC CHLORIDE during the period July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2022. 
 
The participating BACC Agencies should be contacting you shortly to discuss entering into 
contracts with Thatcher Company of California, Inc. for their respective facilities.  
 
Bay Area Chemical Consortium sincerely appreciates your efforts and participation in the 
competitive bid process.  
 
If you have any questions, please free to contact me at jdyment@bacwa.org 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Jennifer Dyment  
Assistant Executive Director 
BACWA.org 
as Coordinating Agency for the Bay Area Chemical Consortium  
99 of 445

--- page 100 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4765
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
July 19, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Supply of Sodium Hypochlorite – Contract
RECOMMENDATION:
Award a contract to Olin Corporation for the supply of sodium hypochlorite in the amount of $259,755, including sales tax; 
and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The wastewater treatment plant uses sodium hypochlorite as a disinfecting reagent in the treatment process. The 
chlorination is a requirement of the City’s National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit. This contract provides 
supply and delivery of 321,000 gallons of this chemical product. 
The City participates in the Bay Area Chemical Consortium along with other municipalities to competitively bid for the cost 
of chemicals needed during the treatment of wastewater. These bid results are summarized below.
Contractor
Bid Amount
Contract Amount*
Olin Corporation 
$0.739
$237,219
Univar Solutions USA, Inc.
$0.746
$239,466
*Does not include 9.5% sales tax
Based on the low bid of $0.739 per gallon, staff recommends award of the contract to Olin Corporation for the supply of 
sodium hypochlorite. The term of the contract is 11 months, and the price is to remain firm for the entire period. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding is budgeted for the supply of chemicals in the Wastewater Treatment Plant operating budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This purchase contract is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve 
any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Contract
Att 2 - BACC Bid Summary
100 of 445

--- page 101 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Att 3 - BACC Award Letter
STAFF CONTACT
Michael Sutter, 
msutter@cityofsanmateo.org
650 522 7376
Azalea Mitch, Director of Public Works
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7309
101 of 445

--- page 102 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA  
PURCHASE CONTRACT 
FOR SUPPLY OF SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE  
FROM OLIN CORPORATION  
August 1, 2021 to June 30, 2022 
 
 
THIS PURCHASE AGREEMENT (“Agreement” or “Contract”), made and entered 
into this____________________________, by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a 
municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, hereinafter referred to 
as "CITY", and Olin Corporation, a Corporation, with offices at P.O.BOX 402766, Atlanta GA, 
30384, hereinafter r e f e r r e d  to as "SUPPLIER". 
 
 
RECITALS 
 
(A) CITY has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize the purchase of certain goods, 
hereinafter described, and the execution of this Contract. 
 
(B) A notice was duly published for bids for the Contract for the purchase of goods 
hereinafter described. 
 
(C) After notice duly given on the date hereof, the CITY awarded the Contract for the 
purchase of goods hereinafter described to SUPPLIER. 
 
IT IS AGREED, as follows: 
 
1.  
Scope of Work. SUPPLIER shall perform the work as described: SUPPLY OF SODIUM 
HYPOCHLORITE 12.5%. 
 
2.  
Contract Price. CITY shall pay, the SUPPLIER shall accept, in full payment for the 
work above agreed to the sum of $259,755 (two hundred fifty-nine thousand seven 
hundred fifty-five dollars and no cents) priced at $0.739 per gallon of Sodium 
Hypochlorite 12.5%. 
 
Said price is determined by the prices contained in the Bay Area Chemical Consortium 
(BACC) Bid Tabulation for Bid No. 11-2021, Supply and Delivery of Sodium Hypochlorite 12.5%, 
Open Date: March 18, 2021, at 9:00 A.M PDT and shall be paid as described in this Contract.  In 
the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a reduction of those set forth 
in SUPPLIER's bid and the specifications herein, such work and materials will be paid for as 
described in this Agreement. 
 
3.  
The Contract Documents. The complete Contract consists of the following documents: This 
Contract and the BACC Bid Tabulation.   
 
All rights and obligations of CITY and SUPPLIER are fully set forth and described in 
the Contract documents. 
 
All of the above-named documents are intended to cooperate, so that any work called for 
102 of 445

--- page 103 ---
2 
 
in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the same as if mentioned 
in all said documents. The documents comprising the complete contract will hereinafter be 
referred to as "the Contract documents." In the event of any variation or discrepancy between 
any portion of this Contract and any portion of the other Contract documents, this Contract shall 
prevail. 
 
4. 
Termination. This Contract may be terminated by mutual consent of both parties or by the 
CITY immediately in the event of SUPPLIER’s default or breach of the Contract and upon 60 
days written notice without cause. Upon receipt of this written notice, SUPPLIER shall stop 
performance under this Contract as directed by the CITY. If the Contract is terminated, SUPPLIER 
shall be paid in accordance with the terms of the Contract for goods delivered and accepted. 
 
5.  
Schedule. This is a one- y e a r  Contract and will cover the period between August 1, 
2021 and June 30, 2022. 
 
6. 
Measurement of Quantities, Material Analysis and Identification. SUPPLIER shall furnish 
the Wastewater Treatment Plant Manager a legible copy of a Bill of Lading, Certified Analysis 
indicating SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE, Weighmaster's certificate of weight and any applicable 
regulatory documents. Certificates shall be delivered to the Wastewater Treatment Plant 
Manager' designee at the job site upon delivery and before offloading of the material. 
 
7. 
 Payment. Shall be made on a thirty (30) day net basis upon receipt of monthly 
invoices. 
 
8. 
 General. Except as directed otherwise in these specifications, full compensation for 
completing all of the supplied goods indicated herein is considered to be included in the Contract 
unit prices paid for the various items of work and no separate payment will be made therefore. 
 
9.  
Partial and Final Payments. SUPPLIER shall submit individual invoice for each delivery of 
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE to the City of San Mateo, Wastewater Treatment Plant, 
2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA 94404. The invoice shall contain the following information: 
 
a) Purchase order number 
b) Date of delivery 
c) Item description 
d) Cost per gallon and total price 
e) Payment terms to include any prompt payment discount offered 
f) All applicable sales tax 
 
10. 
 General Responsibilities. SUPPLIER shall keep fully informed of all existing, adopted 
and amended federal, state and local laws, ordinances, regulations and orders and decrees which in 
any manner affect those engaged or employed by SUPPLIER in the work, or the equipment 
used by the SUPPLIER, or which in any manner affect the conduct of the work by SUPPLIER, 
and all such orders and decrees of bodies or tribunals having any jurisdiction or authority over the 
same. If any discrepancy or inconsistency is discovered in any such law, ordinance, regulation, 
order or decree, SUPPLIER  shall forthwith report the same to the CITY in writing. SUPPLIER 
shall at all times observe and comply with all such existing, adopted and amended laws, 
ordinances, regulations and orders. 
 
103 of 445

--- page 104 ---
3 
 
SUPPLIER will be required to furnish and update, as necessary, a list of telephone 
numbers and names of responsible parties to be called on a 24-hour, 7 days per week basis in 
the event of an emergency or unusual operating conditions. 
 
SUPPLIER assumes full responsibility for all transportation, transportation scheduling, 
packing, handling, insurance, and other services associated with delivery of all products. No 
charges for transportation containers, packing, etc., will be allowed the SUPPLIER unless so 
specified in this Contract. 
 
11. 
Time of Delivery. SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE will be furnished F.O.B. Destination City 
of San Mateo Wastewater Treatment Plant 2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA (i.e., 
Seller/SUPPLIER pays freight charges, owns goods in transit and files any damage claims). 
Deliveries will be made in 4,000-gallon minimum and 5,000-gallon maximum loads. 
 
If SUPPLIER is located outside the (650) area code, then it is requested to provide a toll 
free telephone number for placing orders and an email address to be used by the CITY to send 
confirmation of order. 
 
Deliveries of SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE will generally be prescheduled to provide 
SUPPLIER with at least three (3) days’ notice before delivery must be made, but SUPPLIER 
must have the ability after notification to deliver the chemical within 24 hours. 
 
Orders will be placed by phone and confirmed by email. SUPPLIER must email a 
confirmation of the CITY's order within 24 hours, unless the CITY requires delivery within 24 
hours then confirmation must be made within three (3) hours. In the event SUPPLIER fails to 
provide the chemicals within 24 hours or other scheduled delivery timeframe and the CITY is 
forced to obtain the chemical from an alternative source all additional CITY cost incurred will 
be made good at the expense of SUPPLIER, who agrees to pay the costs and charges immediately 
upon demand. 
 
Once order is placed and confirmation received the delivery will be accepted at the CITY's 
Wastewater Treatment Plant 24-hours per day. 
 
12. 
Method of Delivery. Delivery shall be by truck tank car. SUPPLIER shall provide all 
unloading equipment including air padding facilities and hoses with appropriate fittings for 
coupling to the CITY's chemical unloading facilities. The unloading facilities have standard flange 
connections; exact size and types are available upon request. All shipping containers used shall 
conform to I.C.C. regulations. 
 
13. 
Rejection. All shipments of SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE will be rejected without the 
following: 
 
a) 
Bill of Lading 
b) Certified Analysis including Total Reducing Substance (TRS) as 100% 
Sodium Hypochlorite 
c) 
Weighmaster's certificate of weight 
d) Applicable regulatory documents 
 
The CITY may revise shipping instructions as to any goods not as yet shipped. The CITY shall have 
104 of 445

--- page 105 ---
4 
 
the right to inspect any or all of the goods at SUPPLIER’s place of business or upon receipt by the 
CITY. By reason of its failure to inspect the goods, the CITY shall not be deemed to have accepted 
any defective goods or goods which do not conform to the specifications provided or to have waived 
any of the CITY’s rights or remedies arising by virtue of such defects or non-conformance. 
SUPPLIER shall be responsible for payment of shipping for the return of any defective goods. 
Shipping documents and invoices must cite the Purchase Order number. 
 
 
14. 
Material Safety Data Sheet. Each bidder must furnish a copy of a completed 
M.S.D.S. (Material Safety Data Sheet) with its bid and annually thereafter. Failure to furnish 
a completed M.S.D.S. form will result in rejection of the bid. The CITY has a preference for 
the M.S.D.S. to be submitted in electronic format. The CITY also requires the M.S.D.S. to be 
sent to the receiving location if the product supplied is considered to be a hazardous substance. 
All City, State, or Federal requirements for hazardous substances must be strictly adhered to. 
 
15. 
Training. SUPPLIER shall provide written instructions regarding the recommended 
methods for cleaning up the chemicals in the event of spills. Such instructions shall include any 
recommended absorbents or chemicals to be used for neutralization, if applicable, and recommended 
tests to be performed, such as pH, to ascertain the effectiveness of the neutralization. These 
instructions will be used by wastewater treatment plant personnel m cleaning up small spills 
associated with leaks in pumps, valves and other appurtenances. 
 
SUPPLIER shall provide two (2) classroom sessions annually encompassing a minimum 
of two hours, per session, of classroom instruction at the wastewater plant concerning manufacture, 
chemical properties, transport, safe handling and use of the chemicals being provided by 
SUPPLIER. SUPPLIER shall provide for all costs associated with this training. 
 
SUPPLIER will obtain all required federal, state, or local licenses or permits for the 
transport of Sodium Hypochlorite. 
 
16. 
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, CITY 
shall immediately give written notice thereof to SUPPLIER and SUPPLIER's sureties, and the 
sureties shall have the right to take over and perform the agreement, provided, however, that if 
the sureties, within 5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give CITY written 
notice of their intention to take over the performance thereof within 5 days after notice to CITY 
of such election, CITY may take over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract 
or by any other method it may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of 
SUPPLIER, and the sureties shall be liable to CITY for any excess cost or damages occasioned 
CITY thereby; and, in such event, CITY may, without liability for so doing, take possession of, and 
utilize in completing the work or supply of goods such materials, appliances, plant and other 
property belonging to SUPPLIER as may be on the site of the work and necessary therefor. 
 
17.   
Insurance.   
 
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 
12 07 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, 
personal & advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general 
105 of 445

--- page 106 ---
5 
 
aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this 
project/location or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
Contractor has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit 
no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.  
 
4.  Contractors Pollution Liability and/or Asbestos Pollution Liability and/or Errors & 
Omissions applicable to the work being performed, with a limit no less than $2,000,000 per 
claim or occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate per policy period of one year. 
 
If the SUPPLIER maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the CITY 
requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the SUPPLIER. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
 
The City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed  officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy for 
liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the 
SUPPLIER; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the SUPPLIER including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the SUPPLIER's insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
 
For any claims related to this contract, the SUPPLIER’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected 
and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the CITY, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be excess of the SUPPLIER’s insurance and 
shall not contribute with it. 
 
Notice of Cancellation 
 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except 
after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the CITY. 
 
 
 
106 of 445

--- page 107 ---
6 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
 
SUPPLIER hereby grants to CITY a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
SUPPLIER may acquire against the CITY by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
SUPPLIER agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, 
but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the CITY has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.   
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the CITY. The CITY 
may require the SUPPLIER to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A: VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the CITY. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
 
SUPPLIER shall furnish the CITY with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the CITY before work or performance of the contract 
commences.  However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive 
the SUPPLIER’s obligation to provide them.  The CITY reserves the right to require complete, certified 
copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any 
time. 
 
18. 
Warranties. In addition to any other expressed or implied warranties and unless otherwise 
agreed in writing, SUPPLIER warrants that all products delivered hereunder will be new, suitable 
for use as described, of the grade and quality specified, free from all defects in design, material and 
workmanship; in conformity with all samples, drawings, descriptions and specifications furnished; 
in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and free of any liens 
and encumbrances. These warranties shall not be deemed to exclude SUPPLIER’s standard 
warranties or other rights or warranties which the CITY may have or obtain. 
 
19. 
Hold Harmless and Indemnity Provision. SUPPLIER agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, 
damage, and expense arising from performance of this Contract, including claims, loss, liability, 
damage, and expense caused or claimed to be caused by passive negligence of City of San Mateo 
or Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents; provided, however that this provision does not apply to claims, loss, liability, damage 
or expense arising from the sole negligence or willful misconduct of City of San Mateo or Estero 
Municipal Improvement District. SUPPLIER will defend City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal 
Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, against 
any such claims. 
107 of 445

--- page 108 ---
7 
 
 
20. 
Remedies. In the event of SUPPLIER’s breach of this Contract, CITY may take any or all 
of the following actions, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the CITY by 
law: (a) require SUPPLIER to repair or replace such goods, and upon SUPPLIER’s failure or refusal 
to do so, repair or replace the same at SUPPLIER’s expense; (b) reject any shipment or delivery 
containing defective or nonconforming goods and return for credit or replacement at SUPPLIER’s 
option, said return to be made at SUPPLIER’s cost and risk; (c) cancel any outstanding deliveries 
and treat such breach by SUPPLIER as SUPPLIER’s repudiation of this contract. In the event of the 
CITY’s breach hereunder, SUPPLIER’s exclusive remedy shall be SUPPLIER’s recovery of the 
goods or the purchase price payable for goods shipped prior to such breach. 
 
21. 
Assignment. SUPPLIER shall not delegate or subcontract any duties and services or assign 
any rights or claims under this Contract without the CITY’s prior written consent. 
 
22. 
Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and in 
total amount not exceeding $5,000 shall be recoverable as costs (that is, by the filing of a cost 
bill) by prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Contract.  The 
above $5,000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, 
or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals or actions. It is the intent 
that neither party to this contract shall have to pay the other more than $5,000 for attorney fees 
arising out of an action, or actions, to enforce the provisions of this Contract. The parties expect 
and hope there will be no litigation and that any differences will be resolved amicably. 
 
23. 
Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The 
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties 
shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, 
the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The 
mediator shall be selected by a "blindfolded" process. 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed 
the prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in 
mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation 
process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached 
by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
24. 
Governing Law and Venue. This Contract between the parties evidenced hereby or attached 
thereto shall be deemed to be made in the State of California and shall in all respects be construed 
and governed by the laws of that state. In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San 
Mateo. 
 
25. 
Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition 
to and not in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to CITY. 
 
 
 
 
 
108 of 445

--- page 109 ---
8 
 
26. 
Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified 
mail, postage prepaid. 
 
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed follows: 
 Director of Public Works 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Notices required to be given to SUPPLIER shall be addressed as 
appears in the signature block as shown on the Bidder's Statement. 
 
27.  
Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes 
the plural and vice versa. 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and SUPPLIER and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral. 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and SUPPLIER. 
                                              [SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
109 of 445

--- page 110 ---
9 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement has been duly executed by the parties 
hereinabove named, as of the day and year first above written. 
SUPPLIER  
CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
a municipal corporation 
_________________________________ 
_________________________________ 
John Schabacker 
Azalea Mitch, 
Business Director 
 
Public Works Director 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
_________________________________ 
Linh Nguyen, 
Assistant City Attorney 
Exhibit A: Power of Attorney 
110 of 445

--- page 111 ---
OLIN CORPORATION 
POWER OF ATTORNEY 
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that OLIN CORPORATION, a 
Virginia corporation (hereinafter "the Company"), has constituted and appointed, and 
does hereby constitute and appoint John M. Schabacker, who serves as the Company's 
Business Director, Western Bleach and Municipal Sales, its attorney-in-fact to act for and 
on behalf and in the name of the Company (1) in executing and submitting proposals in 
response to bid requests issued by local governmental entities, and (2) in executing and 
delivering sales contracts following any acceptance of such proposals, provided that such 
authority shall be limited in the case of proposals and contracts requiring only one 
signature on behalf of the Company to those proposals and contracts not exceeding a 
value of $500,000 in the aggregate. 
And the execution of such proposals or sales contracts by such attorney-in-fact in 
the Company's name and on its behalf in pursuance of the authority hereby conferred 
shall, upon delivery thereof, be valid and binding upon the Company. 
This power shall be revocable at the will of the Company and shall be revoked 
upon the receipt by said representative of notice thereof in writing. All acts performed by 
said representative prior to receipt of notice of revocation are hereby ratified and 
confirmed on behalf of the Company. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, OLIN CORPORATION has caused this Power 
of Attorney to be signed by Frank Chirumbole, its President Chlor Alkali Products 
Division this 2ih day of March, 2014. 
, 
OLIN CORPORATION 
By:~~ 
Frank Chirumbole 
President, Chlor Alkali Products Division 
Exhibit A
111 of 445

--- page 112 ---
STATE OF 
Tennessee 
COUNTY OF 
Bradley 
I, the undersigned Notary Public, certify that I personally lmow Frank Chimmbole, 
who signed the foregoing Power of Attomey, and fiuiher lmow him to have been duly 
elected and to be presently serving as President Chlor Alkali Products Division of Olin 
Corporation (the "Company"), and that he has full legal capacity to grant the foregoing 
Power of Attomey as a duly qualified officer and representative ofthe Company; that said 
capacity and power has not been revoked, limited or qualified; and that he 
acknowledged and stated that he executed the same in his capacity as President Chlor 
Alkali Products Division as an act of the Company. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereunto set my hand and seal of office in the County of 
Bradley, State of Tennessee, on this 27th day of March, 2014. 
' Notar 
ic- State of Tennessee 
My Commission Expires 2/21/2018 
112 of 445

--- page 113 ---
Bay Area Clean Water Agencies
Bid Results for Project 13-2021 SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE 12.5%
Issued on 03/18/2021
Bid Due on April 15, 2021  4:00 PM (PDT)
Exported on 04/15/2021
Section
SODIUM 
HYPOCHLORITE 12.5% 
In 275-gal totes 
(Optional bid item)
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE 12.5% 
In Drums (Optional bid item)
SODIUM 
HYPOCHLORITE 
5.25% (Optional bid 
item)
Description
Central Valley
East Bay
Marin Sonoma 
Napa
North Bay
Peninsula
Sacramento
South Bay
Tri Valley
North Bay
Marin Sonoma Napa
Sacramento
Unit of Measure
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
Univar Solutions USA Inc.
$0.71240
$0.71550
$0.76910
$0.73660
$0.74600
$0.85880
$0.73770
$0.70150
no bid
no bid
no bid
Olin Corporation
$0.78900
$0.70400
$0.77900
$0.73900
$0.73900
$0.75400
$0.76900
$0.70400
no bid
no bid
$0.66000
REGIONAL AWARD
12.5% In 275-gal totes 
(Optional bid item)
12.5% In Drums (Optional Bid 
Item)
5.25%
(Optional Bid Item)
Central Valley
East Bay
Marin Sonoma 
Napa
North Bay
Peninsula
Sacramento
South Bay
Tri Valley
North Bay
Marin Sonoma Napa
Sacramento
Estimated annual quantity (in gals)
1,549,000 
1,989,000 
1,035,000 
2,194,000 
1,620,500 
1,082,400 
1,400,000 
1,125,000 
2,200
1,700
85,000
Univar
$1,103,507.60
$1,423,129.50
$796,018.50
$1,616,100.40 $1,208,893.00
$929,565.12
$1,032,780.00
$789,187.50
no bid
no bid
no bid
Olin Chlor
$1,222,161.00
$1,400,256.00
$806,265.00
$1,621,366.00 $1,197,549.50
$816,129.60
$1,076,600.00
$792,000.00
no bid
no bid
$56,100.00
*Highligted bid prices are only to show the apparent low bid and should not be construed as any indication that BACC has accepted such bid as responsive; see bid review for award recommendation.
2020 bid was canceled due to COVID-19 and contract was extended; this comparison below is using 2019 bid prices
Comparison of LOWEST OVERALL RESPONSIVE BID to Previous Year's Awarded Bid
Central Valley
East Bay
Marin Sonoma 
Napa
North Bay
Peninsula
Sacramento
South Bay
Tri Valley
2019 Awarded Unit Price
$0.68730
$0.65820
$0.70010
$0.67470
$0.69760
$0.73900
$0.64130
$0.67220
$ Increase/Decrease in 2021
$0.02510
$0.04580
$0.06900
$0.06190
$0.04140
$0.01500
$0.09640
$0.02930
% Increase/Decrease in 2021
3.65%
6.96%
9.86%
9.17%
5.93%
2.03%
15.03%
4.36%
Average Increase Overall:
7.12%
Average Increase Overall:
$0.04799
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE 12.5%
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE 12.5%
2019 Bid Awarded to: Univar for all regions 
except for Sacramento awarded to Olin Chlor
Unit price per gallon
Per Section 2.16 Method of Award
Bids may be awarded by the participating BACC agencies to the lowest, responsive, and responsible bidder for each listed region  meeting the specifications for bulk loads for the chemical. The lowest 
responsive bidder for this chemical will be determined for each region listed on the Bid Form. The bidder that meets the specifications and submits the lowest overall bid price for a particular region may 
be awarded the bid by the participating agencies in that region, assuming the bid is determined by BACC to be complete and in compliance with the bid requirements.  The lowest overall bid price for each 
region  will be determined by multiplying the estimated annual quantity for each participating agency within the particular region by the bid prices for the region, and adding up the aggregate cost.  BACC 
has the right to delete terms or options from the bid contract documents and reserves the right to reject any and all bids and to waive irregularities in said bids.
113 of 445

--- page 114 ---
PO Box 24055, MS 702 • Oakland, CA 94623 •  www.bacwa.org 
Central Contra Costa Sanitary District • East Bay Dischargers Authority • City of San Jose • East Bay Municipal Utility District • City & County of San Francisco 
 
 
 
 
 
May 5, 2021 
 
Olin Corporation, dba Olin Chlor Alkali Products and Vinyls 
Attn: Scott R. Abel 
26700 South Banta Road 
Tracy, CA 95304 
 
RE: Regional Award Contract in Response to Bay Area Chemical Consortium (BACC) Bid No. 13-
2021 for Supply and Delivery of SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE 12.5% in East Bay, Peninsula and 
Sacramento regions.  
 
Dear Mr. Abel, 
 
We are pleased to advise you that the bid submitted by Olin Corporation, dba Olin Chlor Alkali 
Products and Vinyls for Bid No. 13-2021 was determined to be the lowest responsive bid for the 
supply and delivery of SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE 12.5% during the period July 1, 2021 through June 
30, 2022. 
 
The participating BACC Agencies from the above regions should be contacting you shortly to 
discuss entering into contracts with Olin Corporation, dba Olin Chlor Alkali Products and Vinyls 
for their respective facilities.  
 
Bay Area Chemical Consortium sincerely appreciates your efforts and participation in the 
competitive bid process.  
 
If you have any questions, please free to contact me at jdyment@bacwa.org 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Jennifer Dyment  
Assistant Executive Director 
BACWA.org 
as Coordinating Agency for the Bay Area Chemical Consortium  
114 of 445

--- page 115 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4810
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
July 19, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package 3B – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with WRECO for design services in the amount not to exceed $310,000; establish a contingency 
reserve of $31,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented 
and approve amendments within the contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
WRECO was selected through a qualification process using a request for proposals (RFP) for on-call pavement design 
services. A specific proposal for design services was requested from WRECO for the City’s Citywide Street Rehabilitation 
Package 3B project, which is part of the City’s Pavement Management Program. In addition, WRECO has previously 
provided engineering design services for the Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package 1C, and staff are satisfied with the 
services provided for the project. WRECO’s proposed scope, schedule, and budget all align with the City’s needs and staff 
recommends entering a contract with WRECO to perform the design services for this project for an amount not to exceed 
$310,000 and establish a contingency of $31,000 (10% of the contract budget) to cover any unforeseen changes during the 
design process. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package 2/Street Rehabilitation Phase 3-B project to 
award this agreement and the contingency reserve. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This professional services agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not 
cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065). The project to be designed is 
categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, 
permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, 
or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement
115 of 445

--- page 116 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Cathi Zammit, Engineering Manager
czammit@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7306
Stephanie Gindlesperger, Senior Engineer
sgindlesperger@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7315
116 of 445

--- page 117 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 7 
Rev 5/20 
 
 
AGREEMENT WITH WRECO  
FOR PROFESSIONAL DESIGN SERVICES 
FOR THE 
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE 3B PROJECT 
 
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and WRECO, a corporation, (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 1000 Broadway, Suite 475 
Oakland, CA 94607. 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
 
A.  CITY desires certain design services hereinafter described. 
 
 
B.  CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these professional services by reason 
of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT has offered to 
provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference.  
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT. 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
 
117 of 445

--- page 118 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 7 
Rev 5/20 
 
 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work. 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on the issuance of a 
Notice to Proceed (NTP) and be completed within twelve months after issuance of the NTP.  
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee, on a time and 
expense reimbursable basis, in an amount not to exceed $310,000, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B 
to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. Cost adjustment for the second and 
subsequent year’s annual fixed amounts will be made using annual indexes of the “Consumer Price 
Index for All Urban Consumers,” Bay Area City Average, all items (1967=100) as published in the 
Monthly Review by the U.S. Department of Labor, (CPI). The annual increase in rates is not to exceed 
CPI or 3%, whichever is lower. 
 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not. 
 
118 of 445

--- page 119 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 7 
Rev 5/20 
 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONSULTANT’s performance of this Agreement, except those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
119 of 445

--- page 120 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 7 
Rev 5/20 
 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
120 of 445

--- page 121 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 7 
Rev 5/20 
 
 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
City of San Mateo 
Attn: Azalea Mitch, Public Works Director 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
WRECO 
Attn:  Han Bin Liang, President 
1000 Broadway, Suite 475 
Oakland CA 94607 
 
121 of 445

--- page 122 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 7 
Rev 5/20 
 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
 
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party. 
 
 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
122 of 445

--- page 123 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 7 
Rev 5/20 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and CONSTRUCTION TESTING SERVICES INC. have 
executed this Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Azalea Mitch 
Director of Public Works 
 
 
 
 
 
Han Bin Liang 
President 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) 
Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below. 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
 
Name:  
Title:  
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B:  
Fee Rate Schedule  
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
 
 
123 of 445

--- page 124 ---
Page A-1 
EXHIBIT A 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
CONSULTANT’s proposed scope of services includes designing and preparing the 
construction contract documents for the Citywide Street Rehabilitation 3B Project 
(Project). The following streets and limits are included in this scope of services.   
 
 
Street Name 
Start Location 
End Location 
1 
1st Avenue 
Railroad Ave 
El Camino Real 
2 
5th Avenue 
Amphalett 
Delaware 
3 
Alhambra Road 
5th Avenue 
Maple 
4 
B Street 
9th Street 
5th Avenue 
5 
Cascade Court 
Idaho 
Cul-de-sac 
6 
Concar Drive 
Delaware Street 
SE 92 On-Ramp or Station 
Park Circle 
7 
Delaware Street 
Concar Drive 
Charles Lane 
8 
Eleanor Drive 
Edna Way 
Connie 
9 
Fremont Street 
3rd  
2nd 
10 
Humboldt Street 
9th Avenue 
5th Avenue 
11 
Monte Diablo Avenue 
Railroad 
Delaware 
 
SCOPE OF WORK 
TASK 1 – PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION 
Task 1.1 - Project Schedule 
CONSULTANT will prepare a preliminary Project schedule for the CITY’s review. The 
schedule will identify the critical path items, review times, and milestone submittals. 
CONSULTANT will update and issue the revised Project schedule as necessary. 
Task 1.2 - Project Kickoff Meeting and Initial Site Visit 
CONSULTANT will coordinate a Project Kickoff Meeting with the CITY. The purpose of 
the meeting will be to gain approval of the proposed base schedule and to identify any 
known Project issues. Meeting minutes will be prepared and distributed within five (5) 
working days of the meeting. 
 
124 of 445

--- page 125 ---
Page A-2 
Task 1.3 - Project Review Meetings (Virtual) 
The CONSULTANT Team will attend up to four (4) virtual meetings with the CITY. The 
primary purpose of each meeting will be to review comments received from each 
milestone deliverable. Two (2) meetings will be held after the 35% submittal: one (1) 
meeting to present the 35% plans and another meeting for the CITY to provide comments 
on the submittal. Similarly, there will be two (2) more meetings after the submittal of the 
70% plans, specifications, and estimate (PS&E). CONSULTANT will discuss any 
comments that require clarification from the CITY and obtain an agreement on the design 
team’s proposed methods to address the CITY’s comments. CONSULTANT will provide 
meeting minutes to the CITY and team members. Additionally, CONSULTANT will 
provide the CITY with a Project progress report and an invoice on a monthly basis.  
Task 1.4 - Bi-Weekly Meetings (Virtual) 
The CONSULTANT Team will attend up to sixteen (16) virtual meetings with the CITY. 
The primary purpose of each meeting will be to coordinate the design efforts and resolve 
any issues that arise during the design process. 
Task 1.5 - Quality Control 
CONSULTANT’s designated Quality Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC) Manager will 
ensure the QA/QC procedures established for the Project will adhere to by the 
CONSULTANT. The following QC procedures will be used in the development of the 
planning and engineering documents for the Project: 
• Define key team members and their respective roles and responsibilities for the 
Project. 
• Identify, categorize, and incorporate correspondence, memoranda, and reports 
prepared for the Project within a distinct filing system that enables quick recovery 
upon request by the CITY and/or CONSULTANT Team members. 
• Perform internal plan QC reviews by the Project Manager and Team Leaders to 
ensure conflicts and miscommunication do not occur. 
• Perform QA reviews by senior management who are not involved with the 
development of the Project documents at the 70%, and 100% PS&E milestones 
before submittal to the CITY. 
 
Task 1 Deliverables 
• Project Schedule 
• Project Meeting Minutes 
• Monthly Invoices and Progress Reports 
 
 
 
125 of 445

--- page 126 ---
Page A-3 
TASK 2 – PRE-DESIGN INVESTIGATIONS 
Task 2.1 - Field Reconnaissance & Investigation 
CONSULTANT will conduct extensive field reconnaissance to assess the existing 
pavement conditions and note locations of the existing utility manholes and valve covers. 
Existing Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) ramps will be field measured, and ramp 
slopes will be calculated to ensure that each ramp is ADA compliant. Existing curbs and 
gutters in need of repair will also be documented. 
Task 2.2 - Curb Ramp & Street Assessment Report 
CONSULTANT will prepare the Curb Ramp & Street Assessment Report for each curb 
ramp and gutter flow lines within the street section improvement limits. The report will 
assess each curb ramp and provide proposed solutions required to meet the ADA design 
criteria and provide a visual assessment of the existing gutters to identify locations of low 
spots that would create ponding. 
Task 2.3 - Topographical Survey 
CONSULTANT will perform a field survey, taking survey data points at the top of curb, 
flow line, lip of gutter, and back of sidewalk at each curb ramp location for the following 
intersections anticipating curb ramp improvements associated with the mill and overlay 
improvement only: 
• 1st Avenue @ Claremont (2 curb ramps) 
• 1st Avenue @ Delaware Street (2 curb ramps) 
• 5th Avenue @ Eldorado Street (4 curb ramps) 
• 5th Avenue @ Grant Street (4 curb ramps) 
• 5th Avenue @ Humboldt Street (4 curb ramps) 
• Alhambra Road @ 5th Avenue (2 curb ramps) 
• Alhambra Road @ Maple Street (2 curb ramps) 
• B Street @ 5th Avenue (2 curb ramps) 
• B Street @ 6th Avenue (2 curb ramps) 
• B Street @ 7th Avenue (2 curb ramps) 
• B Street @ 9th Avenue (1 curb ramp) 
• Concar Drive @ Delaware Street (2 curb ramps) 
• Delaware Street @ Charles Lane (2 curb ramps) 
• Fremont Street @ 2nd Avenue (2 curb ramps) 
• Fremont Street @ 3rd Avenue (2 curb ramps) 
• Humboldt Street @ 7th Avenue (2 curb ramps) 
• Humboldt Street @ 9th Avenue (2 curb ramps) 
• Monte Diablo Avenue @ Claremont Street (4 curb ramps) 
 
126 of 445

--- page 127 ---
Page A-4 
The topographic survey will also include the locations of surface visible utilities (including 
dips of inlets and manholes), utility boxes, vaults, lights, signs, fire hydrants, trees and 
their drip lines, and existing driveways in the vicinity of the curb ramps. 
The survey control will be based on the California State Plane Coordinate System, North 
American Datum of 1983 (NAD 83). The vertical control will be based on the CITY’s 
vertical datum. Topographic mapping will be created from the survey data and will be 
used as the base map for the design plans. 
Task 2.4 - Pavement Field Investigation & Pavement Assessment Report 
CONSULTANT will conduct a field investigation to visually inspect the pavement 
condition. CONSULTANT will also perform subsurface exploration for the streets that are 
projected to receive mill and overlay. 
CONSULTANT will additionally take two roadway coring samples, at each of the eleven 
streets, to a depth of up to 5 feet to determine the existing pavement depths and 
subsurface conditions at each location. The CITY will provide an encroachment permit 
(no fee to CONSULTANT) for the field work. It is assumed that traffic control will be 
required to complete the coring. The bore holes will be backfilled with cement grout or 
cold patch asphalt concrete (AC).  The following is included in this task: 
 
• Obtain a CITY encroachment permit (assumed no fee to the CONSULTANT 
Team). 
• Mark out the borings in white paint and call in USA North Utility Notification a 
minimum of 72 hours before the start of the field work. 
• Drill two (2) soil borings using solid flight augers or concrete coring and hand-
augers to completion depths of 5 feet below current grades at each of the ten street 
locations (20 total borings).  
• The existing AC and any identified base material will be measured where 
penetrated with borings. All borings will be backfilled with lean cement, and the soil 
cuttings drummed and disposed of off-site. All penetrations in the asphalt will be 
patched with an 18 inch plug of rapid setting high strength concrete dyed black. 
• Bulk samples will be retrieved from the auger cuttings as the drilling advances.  
• Recovered representative samples will be visually classified to better determine 
the engineering characteristics of the soils.  
 
The results of the field investigation will be presented in a Pavement Assessment Report.    
 
For this task, we assume the following:  
• There will be three (3) days of fieldwork. 
• The borings locations will be backfilled with lean concrete grout, and the pavement 
will be replaced with rapid setting high strength concrete. 
127 of 445

--- page 128 ---
Page A-5 
• There are no planned structural excavations (e.g. utility improvements) for the 
proposed improvements. 
• County of San Mateo boring permit is not required for borings less than 10 ft deep. 
• CONSULTANT is not responsible for performing a site-specific seismic fault study 
or fault trenching as part of our scope. CONSULTANT is not performing a 
liquefaction analysis or seismic settlement analysis as part of our scope. 
• If hazardous substances are encountered work will stop and an additional scope 
and fee will be required to address hazardous substances.  
 
Task 2.5 - Utility Investigations and Potholing 
CONSULTANT will conduct a search of potential utility owners who might have facilities 
within the Project limits. We will prepare utility request letters for the CITY to send to the 
owners requesting record drawings of their facilities or confirming they do not have any 
facilities that would be in conflict with the proposed improvements. 
A composite plan of existing utilities will be prepared based on the information received 
from the utility owners and utility information received from the CITY. Potential conflicts 
between existing utilities and the proposed roadway improvements will be identified. 
CONSULTANT will prepare a potholing plan (as needed) and discuss the proposed plan 
with the CITY.  After reaching an agreement on the potholing plan, CONSULTANT and 
its potholing contractor will positively locate utilities with up to ten (10) potholes. It is 
assumed that traffic control will be required and the field work will be completed in two (2) 
days.  
Task 2.6 - Develop Design Base Maps 
CONSULTANT will compile the design base maps in AutoCAD, utilizing the aerial map 
supplemented with topographical survey, as needed. 
Task 2.7 - Basis of Design Report 
The Basis of Design (BOD) report will document the design objectives, approaches, 
assumptions, rationale, design criteria, and considerations used for calculations and 
decisions required during design.   
 
Task 2.8 - 35% Conceptual Plans 
The 35% design plans prepared under this task will include the following: 
• Conceptual Layout Plans (Identifying project improvement limits, curb ramp 
improvements, and pavement rehabilitation requirements)  
 
Task 2 Deliverables 
• Curb Ramp & Street Assessment Report (PDF) 
• Pavement Assessment Report (PDF) 
128 of 445

--- page 129 ---
Page A-6 
• Topographic Base Mapping (CADD file) 
• Potholing Plan (PDF) 
• Draft and Final Basis of Design Report (PDF) 
• 35% Conceptual Plans (PDF) 
 
TASK 3 – 70% DESIGN SUBMITTAL 
Task 3.1 - 70% Plans 
The 70% design plans prepared under this task will include the following: 
• Title Sheet with Vicinity Map and General Notes 
• Index Map Sheet 
• Typical Sections 
• Layout Plans  
• Sign and Striping Plans 
• Curb Ramp Improvement Details 
• Construction Details  
 
All sheets will be prepared on the CITY’s Standard Title Block and in AutoCAD (Version 
2018). 
Task 3.2 - 70% Specifications 
Specifications will be written in the format of the CITY’s standard contract book and 
Caltrans’ Standard Plans and Specifications, dated 2018. The CITY will provide the 
standard “front‐end” specifications for the CONSULTANT’s use. CONSULTANT will 
review the Boilerplate Front End specifications and recommend any changes that would 
be appropriate. 
Task 3.3 - 70% Construction Cost Estimate 
CONSULTANT will prepare a construction cost estimate to ensure the proposed 
improvements are within the available construction budget. The construction cost 
estimate will be based on historical unit costs obtained from recent projects near the 
Project area, as well as Caltrans’ construction cost data. 
Task 3 Deliverables 
• 70% Plans (PDF) 
• 70% Technical Specifications (PDF) 
• 70% Construction Cost Estimate (PDF) 
 
 
 
129 of 445

--- page 130 ---
Page A-7 
TASK 4 – 100% DESIGN SUBMITTAL 
Task 4.1 - Response to 70% Comments 
Upon receiving comments on the 70% submittal, the CONSULTANT will prepare a 
Comment Response Form (CRF) to document the CITY’s comments. CONSULTANT will 
prepare written responses to each comment and submit the form to the CITY prior to the 
Project Review Meeting. After discussion with the CITY and upon reaching an agreement, 
the CRF will be updated to document the final status of each comment. 
Task 4.2 - 100% Plans 
Upon reaching an agreement with the CITY on the status of the 70% PS&E submittal 
comments, CONSULTANT will revise the plans accordingly to prepare the 100% plans. 
Task 4.3 - 100% Specifications 
CONSULTANT will update the technical specifications based on the 70% submittal 
comments and the 100% plans. 
Task 4.4 - 100% Construction Cost Estimate 
CONSULTANT will update the Construction Cost Estimate to reflect the 100% plans and 
specifications. 
Task 4 Deliverables 
• 70% CRF 
• Final Stamped and Signed Plans (1 full‐size hard copy) 
• Final Stamped and Signed Specifications (1 original hard copy) 
• Final Construction Cost Estimate (1 hard copy) 
• One disc containing PDF files of the 70% CRF, Final Signed Plans, Final Signed 
Specifications, and Final Construction Cost Estimate. The disc will also contain a 
Microsoft Word file of the specifications. 
 
TASK 5 – BIDDING AND CONSTRUCTION SUPPORT 
For this task, CONSULTANT will provide nominal, supplemental support to the CITY for 
bidding and construction inquiries.  
Task 5.1 – Bid Support 
CONSULTANT will perform the following: 
• Attend the pre‐bid meeting, and  
• Prepare drafts of addenda or clarifications. 
 
 
 
130 of 445

--- page 131 ---
Page A-8 
Task 5.2 – Construction Support 
CONSULTANT will perform the following: 
• Attend the pre‐construction conference to respond to questions concerning the 
PS&E; 
• Review and prepare responses to Requests for Information (RFI) from the 
contractor; 
• Review the contractor’s submittals and shop drawings for compatibility with 
design; 
• Assist the CITY in preparing the Contract Change Orders (CCO), if needed; 
• Participate in the final walk‐through of the constructed Project; 
• Perform final review/evaluation and assist with the preparation of the punch list of 
work deficiencies; and 
• Prepare Record Drawings (As‐builts).  
 
Task 5 Deliverables 
• Contract Addenda (as‐needed) 
• Answers to Bidders’ Questions (for distribution by the CITY during the bid phase) 
• Responses to RFIs and CCOs 
• Recommendations from the Final Review 
• Record Drawings 
 
Project Assumptions: 
CONSULTANT’s proposed scope of services and budget are provided based on the 
following assumptions. 
The CITY will: 
• Provide environmental clearance for the Project; 
• Provide construction inspection work and contract administration for the Project; 
• Provide CONSULTANT with any CITY as‐built or record drawings, utility 
underground maps, and any existing information necessary to complete the 
design; 
• Provide the front end “boilerplate” for the specifications to the CONSULTANT 
Team; 
• Be responsible for the reproduction of the construction bid packages (plans and 
specifications); and 
• Provide construction staking for the Project. 
 
CONSULTANT also assumes the following: 
• No right‐of‐way mapping will be required; 
• No major regulatory permits are needed; 
131 of 445

--- page 132 ---
Page A-9 
• No traffic signal modifications are required; 
• No geotechnical lab work will be required; 
• The CITY will perform any community outreach if required; 
• Construction work will be performed exclusively in the existing right‐of‐way; and 
• An Encroachment Permit will be provided at no cost to CONSULTANT; and 
• The CITY will coordinate with Caltrans and obtain encroachment permit, if 
required.  
 
Work Not Included In Scope Of Services: 
The following tasks are not included in our proposed scope of services because they were 
not specifically noted from the CITY’s request. However, CONSULTANT can provide 
these services upon the CITY’s request and approval.  
• Coordination with local businesses, schools, and residents impacted by the 
Project; 
• Development of the Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan; and 
• Development of the Traffic Handling Plans and Stage Construction, which will be 
the contractor’s responsibility.  
 
 
SCHEDULE 
CONSULTANT will provide the scope of services described above on a mutually 
agreeable schedule. 
 
 
BUDGET 
CONSULTANT proposes to provide our services on a time and materials basis with a not-
to-exceed budget of $309,250. Table B attached to this proposal includes a detailed 
estimate of hours per task and hourly rates based on our Charge Rate Schedule dated 
January 1, 2021. 
 
132 of 445

--- page 133 ---
1243 Alpine Road, Suite 108 
Walnut Creek, CA 94596 
Phone:  925.941.0017 
Fax:  925.941.0018 
www.wreco.com 
 
 
 
           | Civil Engineering | Environmental Compliance | Geotechnical Engineering | Water Resources | 
BILLING RATE SCHEDULE 
Hourly Rate of FY 2021 
(01/01/2021 ‐ 12/31/2021) 
 
TITLE 
MINIMUM 
MAXIMUM 
Principal Professional 
$260.00  
$310.00 
Supervising Professional II  
$220.00  
$260.00 
Supervising Professional I  
$180.00  
$220.00 
Senior Professional III 
$170.00  
$210.00 
Senior Professional II  
$145.00  
$170.00 
Senior Professional I  
$120.00  
$145.00 
Associate Professional II  
$110.00  
$130.00 
Associate Professional I  
$90.00  
$110.00 
Staff Professional II  
$85.00  
$105.00 
Staff Professional I  
$65.00  
$85.00 
Senior Technician II 
$105.00  
$130.00 
Senior Technician I 
$80.00  
$105.00 
Technician II 
$65.00  
$80.00 
Technician I 
$50.00  
$65.00 
Project Coordinator / Tech Editor II 
$85.00  
$130.00 
Project Coordinator / Tech Editor I  
$55.00  
$85.00 
 
 
Professional staff includes Civil Engineers, Hydraulic Engineers, Geotechnical Engineers, Geologists, 
Biologists, and Environmental Scientists. 
 
Expenses are invoiced at 110% of cost. 
 
Unless expressed within the contract agreement, rates on all contracts are subject to an annual 
adjustment of a 3% escalation rate on January 1 of each calendar year.  
 
Rates for deposition and trial time are 1.5 times those shown above. 
 
Regular Mileage is per IRS rate (currently at $0.575 per mile) or as otherwise specified in contract. 
 
 
EXHIBIT B
DocuSign Envelope ID: 0874B3CD-E7C8-41C4-8590-973FBEC37154
133 of 445

--- page 134 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 9 
Rev 5/20 
 
 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no 
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.  
 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate 
 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
134 of 445

--- page 135 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 9 
Rev 5/20 
 
 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
135 of 445

--- page 136 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  14
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4811
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
July 19, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Fiber Optic Network Facilities – Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a Utility Equipment Agreement with Intermountain Infrastructure Group, LLC for the construction, installation, 
maintenance, and operation of fiber optic network facilities within the public right-of-way and authorize the Public Works 
Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form attached.
BACKGROUND:
On February 28, 2019, the Public Utilities Commission of the State of California (CPUC) granted Intermountain 
Infrastructure Group, LLC (IIG) a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN) that authorizes IIG to provide full, 
facilities-based and re-sold competitive local exchange telecommunication services, such as fiber and internet, within the 
State of California (Attachment 1). IIG desires to construct, install, maintain, and operate fiber optic network facilities 
within the City of San Mateo public right-of-way to provide the telecommunication services to San Mateo residents and 
clients. 
In addition to the CPUC, the City has the authority to regulate the terms and conditions for IIG’s use of the public right-of-
way, and a Utility Equipment Agreement (Attachment 2) is required. The Utility Equipment Agreement will authorize 
telecommunication services under applicable federal and state law. However, the Utility Equipment Agreement will not 
authorize cable (TV) services, broadcast television service or wireless (small cell) service. The main terms and conditions of 
the Agreement are as follows:
1.
The term of the Agreement is ten (10) years from the effective date and may only be amended in writing and 
signed by both parties. 
2.
IIG shall be required to remove or relocate their facilities, without cost or expense to the City, when made 
necessary by any lawful change of grade, alignment, or width of any street, including the construction, 
maintenance, or operation of any underground facility by the City, and/or construction, maintenance, or 
operation of any other City underground or above-ground facilities. 
3.
IIG will be required to apply for encroachment permits and provide the necessary fees, deposits, and bonds 
prior to doing work in the public right-of-way. 
Staff recommends entering into a Utility Equipment Agreement with IIG to allow for their provision of telecommunication 
services.
BUDGET IMPACT:
IIG will be required to pay all necessary encroachment permit fees, deposits, and bonds. IIG will be required to pay the 
‘Encroachment Permit – Permanent – City Right-of-Way Review’ Fee as established in the City’s adopted comprehensive 
136 of 445

--- page 137 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
fee schedule for administrative time to prepare the Utility Equipment Agreement.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5), Council Action on this item is not a project subject to CEQA 
because execution of a License Agreement is an administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical 
changes in the environment.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity
Att 2 – Agreement 
STAFF CONTACT
Karen Magallanes, Assistant Engineer
kmagallanes@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7576
Tracy Scramaglia, Senior Engineer
tscramaglia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7316
137 of 445

--- page 138 ---
270208680 
- 1 - 
ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
Date of Issuance 2/28/2019 
 
 
 
Decision 19-02-013  February 21, 2019 
 
BEFORE THE PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
 
In the Matter of the Application of Intermountain 
Infrastructure Group, LLC for a certificate of 
public convenience and necessity to provide full 
facilities-based and resold competitive local 
exchange service throughout the service 
territories of Pacific Bell Telephone Company, 
Frontier California, Inc., Consolidated 
Communications of California Company, and 
Citizens Telecommunications Company of 
California, Inc. and full facilities-based and resold 
interexchange services on a statewide basis.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Application 18-05-021 
 
 
 
 
DECISION GRANTING INTERMOUNTAIN INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP, LLC 
A CERTIFICATE OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY IN ORDER 
TO PROVIDE 1) FULL FACILITIES-BASED AND RESOLD COMPETITIVE 
LOCAL EXCHANGE SERVICE; AND 2) FULL FACILITIES-BASED AND 
RESOLD INTEREXCHANGE SERVICE 
 
Summary 
Pursuant to Public Utilities (Pub. Util.) Code Section 1001, we grant 
Intermountain Infrastructure Group, LLC (Intermountain or Applicant) a 
certificate of public convenience and necessity to provide 1) full facilities-based 
and resold competitive local exchange telecommunications services; and 2) full 
facilities-based and resold interexchange service in California subject to the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Ordering Paragraphs. 
This proceeding is closed. 
138 of 445

--- page 139 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 2 - 
1. Background 
On May 23, 2018, Intermountain Infrastructure Group, LLC, a corporation 
authorized to do business in California, filed an application for a certificate of 
public convenience and necessity (CPCN) to provide: 1) full facilities-based and  
resold competitive telecommunications services in the service territories of 
Pacific Bell Telephone Company d/b/a AT&T California (AT&T California), 
Frontier California Inc.  (Frontier California)1, Citizens Telecommunications 
Company of California, Inc. d/b/a Frontier Communications of California 
(Frontier Communications), and Consolidated Communications of California 
Company (Consolidated Communications, formerly SureWest Telephone);2 and 
2) full facilities-based and resold interexchange service in California.  
Intermountain proposes to provide “infrastructure facilities (such as 
conduit and dark or lit fiber) for use in connection with the transport and 
transmission of communications.”3  If existing facilities are not available or 
economical, Intermountain may install fiber, construct new manholes and/or 
new poles.4  
Intermountain’s principal place of business is located at 533 Airport Blvd., 
Suite 400, Burlingame, California 94010.   
                                              
1  Frontier California was formerly Verizon California, Inc. (Verizon).  As of April 1, 2016, 
Verizon’s operations in California were acquired and are now operated by Frontier California, 
Inc., pursuant to Decision (D.) 15-12-005.   
2  SureWest Telephone was acquired by Consolidated Communications Inc. in 2012, pursuant to 
D.12-06-004, and SureWest Telephone changed its name to Consolidated Communications of 
California Company as of January 1, 2016. 
3  Application at 1. 
4  Response of Intermountain Infrastructure Group, LLC to Assigned ALJ Ruling, Jan. 4, 2019, 
at  2. 
139 of 445

--- page 140 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 3 - 
On October 19, 2018, the assigned Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) issued 
Administrative Law Judge’s Ruling Directing the Filing of Additional Information, to 
which Intermountain responded on October 22, 2018.  A prehearing conference 
was held on October 24, 2018.  The November 15, 2018 scoping memo and ruling 
included additional questions regarding Intermountain’s need for full 
facilities-based authority and the lack of a proposed tariff.  On November 19, 
2018, Intermountain responded to the scoping memo and ruling.  Due to the 
need for details regarding Intermountain’s business, the lack of a proposed tariff, 
and the proponent’s environmental assessment, on January 3, 2019, the ALJ 
issued a second Administrative Law Judge’s Ruling Directing the Filing of Additional 
Information.  On January 4, 2019, Intermountain responded.   
2. Jurisdiction 
Public Utilities Code (Pub. Util. Code) § 216(a) defines the term “Public 
utility” to include a “telephone corporation,” which in turn is defined in Public 
Utilities Code § 234(a) as “every corporation or person owning, controlling, 
operating, or managing any telephone line for compensation within this state.”  
Intermountain proposes to provide infrastructure facilities, such as conduit 
and dark or lit fiber infrastructure, in connection with the transport and 
transmission of communications. Intermountain will use existing conduit, poles, 
and infrastructure if feasible and economical, but will build new facilities if 
required to serve customers.  For example, Intermountain may “construct 
underground facilities of longer length to provide services to schools, 
government office buildings, or business customers who have needs for new or 
140 of 445

--- page 141 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 4 - 
additional telecommunications bandwidth.”5  Intermountain is a telephone 
corporation and a public utility subject to our jurisdiction. 
Intermountain states even though it does not expect to operate as an 
interstate Common Carrier, to the extent it engages in operations as a Common 
Carrier as defined by § 153 of the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 (Act), 
it will be eligible to interconnect with the public switched telephone network 
pursuant to § 251 and § 252 of the Act,6 and that if granted a CPCN, it will 
operate as a telephone corporation under Pub. Util. Code § 234(a), and obey the 
Pub. Util. Code and all Commission rules, decisions, and orders applicable to 
telephone corporations.7  
3. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Pursuant to CEQA and Rule 2.48 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and 
Procedure, the Commission examines projects to determine any potential 
environmental impacts in order that adverse effects are avoided and 
environmental quality is restored or enhanced to the fullest extent possible under 
CEQA.   
                                              
5  Response of Intermountain Infrastructure Group, LLC to Assigned ALJ Ruling, Jan. 4, 2019, 
at 2. 
6  Application, Verification and Sworn Statement on Behalf of Intermountain Infrastructure 
Group, LLC. 
7  Id. 
8  Unless otherwise noted, items labeled “Rule” are from the Commission’s Rules of Practice 
and Procedure. 
141 of 445

--- page 142 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 5 - 
In the Proponent’s Environmental Assessment, Intermountain’s proposed 
construction activities will generally include the installation of “relatively short 
conduit routes, installations of [] poles where existing facilities are inadequate, 
and installation or construction of other, small above-ground facilities.”9  The 
construction “would occur in existing roadways or other previously-developed 
and disturbed rights-of-way.”  Intermountain’s proposed activities include: 
- Installing fiber to link customers to existing conduits; 
- Constructing a new manhole and/or short conduit stub when 
necessary; 
- Installing overlash cabling between existing utility poles; 
- Constructing new poles when necessary; and 
- Constructing underground facilities to lay its own conduit 
when necessary.10 
Intermountain expects its activities to fall within one or more categorical 
CEQA exemptions, but at this time, it cannot identify the specific projects, sites, 
or routes of construction.11   Intermountain requests approval to utilize a 
procedure for expedited CEQA review of its projects once it is aware of a specific 
site(s) and route(s) which it plans construction.   
It is possible that Intermountain’s activities will fall within one or more of 
the categorical exemptions under CEQA.  Intermountain’s proposed procedure 
for expedited review tracks the expedited review procedure that we have 
approved for other carriers.  Such a process will expedite CEQA review and is 
                                              
9  Application at Exhibit D. 
10  Response of Intermountain Infrastructure Group, LLC to Assigned ALJ Ruling, Jan. 4, 2019, 
at 1 – 2. 
11  Application at 2. 
142 of 445

--- page 143 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 6 - 
appropriate for the type of construction outlined here, which may be 
categorically exempt.  By establishing this expedited review process, we are able 
to review the information on a specific project to confirm that it is categorically 
exempt from CEQA or to explain why further environmental review is required.  
At the same time, the proposed CEQA review process will enable Intermountain 
to undertake construction of its projects in an efficient manner without 
experiencing delays caused by an unnecessarily protracted CEQA review. 
Similar to the procedure approved for other carriers, the following 
procedure will be used to obtain Commission approval of Intermountain’s 
claimed CEQA exemptions for proposed construction projects: 
 Intermountain will provide the Commission’s Energy 
Division with: 
 A detailed description of the proposed project, 
including: 
 Customer(s) to be served; 
 The precise location of the proposed construction 
project; and 
 Regional and local site maps. 
 A description of the environmental setting, to include at 
a minimum: 
 Cultural, historical, and paleontological resources; 
 Biological resources; and 
 Current land use and zoning. 
 A construction workplan, to include: 
 Commission Preconstruction Survey 
Checklist-Archaeological Resources; 
 Commission Preconstruction Survey 
Checklist-Biological Resources; 
143 of 445

--- page 144 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 7 - 
 A detailed schedule of construction activities, 
including site restoration activities; 
 A description of construction/installation techniques; 
 A list of other agencies contacted with respect to 
siting, land use planning, and environmental 
resource issues, including contact information; and 
 A list of permits required for the proposed project. 
 A statement of the CEQA exemption(s) applicable to the 
proposed project; and 
 Documentation and factual evidence sufficient to 
support a finding that the claimed exemption(s) is (are) 
applicable. 
 
The Energy Division will review Intermountain’s 
submission for the proposed project to confirm that the 
claimed exemption(s) from CEQA are applicable. 
 
Within 21 days from the date of Intermountain’s submittal, 
the Energy Division will issue either: 
 A Notice to Proceed (NTP) and file a Notice of 
Exemption with the State Clearinghouse, Office of 
Planning and Research, or 
 A letter of denial stating the specific reasons why the 
claimed exemption(s) are not applicable to the proposed 
project. 
We have reviewed the application and Intermountain’s 
responses to ALJ’s rulings and find that: 
 Intermountain’s proposed facilities-based project activities are 
very limited; 
 These activities would in almost all circumstances be very 
likely to qualify for an exemption from CEQA; and 
 The proposed process for reviewing the applicability of CEQA 
exemptions to Intermountain’s facilities-based projects is not 
only adequate for the Commission’s purposes as CEQA Lead 
Agency, but is also in the public interest because it enables 
Intermountain to respond in a timely manner to requests for 
144 of 445

--- page 145 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 8 - 
service without the delay or burden of a full CEQA review 
when such review is unnecessary. 
We therefore approve Intermountain’s proposed process for Commission 
review of claimed CEQA exemptions for construction projects undertaken 
pursuant to Intermountain’s full facilities-based authority, based on the specific 
facts of this case with the following modifications related to the Commission’s 
Energy Division review and approval or disapproval of the proposed 
exemptions. 
If the Energy Division disapproves Intermountain’s claimed CEQA 
exemption(s) and issues a letter of denial to Intermountain, Intermountain must 
either re-design the specific project and facilities and then reapply for a finding 
of exemption from CEQA, or file a formal application with the Commission 
seeking the requisite approval and full CEQA review, before commencing any 
construction activities. 
Intermountain shall not perform any full facilities-based construction 
activities without first obtaining an NTP from the Energy Division or 
authorization by the Commission after the requisite environmental review. 
In Rulemaking 95-04-043/Investigation 95-04-04, we previously 
determined that the public convenience and necessity require that competition be 
allowed in the provision of competitive local exchange service.  Granting this 
application will benefit the public interest by expanding the availability of 
technologically advanced telecommunications services within the state. 
Intermountain proposes to follow the 21-day process stated above until 
General Order (GO) 170 is implemented.12  D.11-12-054 granted rehearing of 
                                              
12  Application at 7. 
145 of 445

--- page 146 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 9 - 
D.10-12-056 and vacated GO 170; however, a final decision on the rehearing has 
not been rendered.  Thus, Intermountain must comply with the process 
described in this decision.  In the future, if GO 170 is adopted, Intermountain 
may pursue the appropriate remedies at that time.       
4. Financial Qualifications 
To be granted a CPCN, an applicant for authority to provide full facilities-
based resold competitive local exchange and interexchange services must 
demonstrate that it has a minimum of $100,000 cash or cash equivalent, 
reasonably liquid and readily available to meet the firm’s start-up expenses.13  
An applicant must also demonstrate that it has sufficient additional resources 
to cover all deposits required by local exchange carriers and/or interexchange 
carriers in order to provide the proposed service.14  Applicant provided 
Exhibit F, which contains the Guarantee of Jeffrey Yount, the CEO of 
Intermountain.  Mr. Yount guarantees that $100,000 would be available to 
Intermountain for one year following certification, plus $20,000 to cover the 
deposit required by AT&T California, Frontier California, Frontier 
Communications, and Consolidated Communications.  In addition, 
Intermountain submitted financial information of an investment account held at 
Stifel Bank and Trust with a certification by Mr. Yount that the funds will be 
                                              
13  The financial requirement for Competitive Local Exchange Carriers (CLEC) is contained in 
D.95-12-056, Appendix C.  The financial requirement for Non-Dominant Interexchange Carriers 
(NDIEC) is contained in D.91-10-041. 
14  The requirement for Competitive Local Carrier (CLC) applicants to demonstrate that they 
have additional financial resources to meet any deposits required by underlying Local 
Exchange Carriers (LEC) and/or IECs is set forth in D.95-12-056, Appendix C.  For NDIECs, the 
requirement is found in D.93-05-010. 
146 of 445

--- page 147 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 10 - 
available for the first year of Intermountain’s operations.15  Since Intermountain 
has provided documentation that it possesses a minimum of $100,000 that is 
reasonably liquid and available, it has demonstrated that it has sufficient funds 
to meet its start-up expenses and deposits has fulfilled this requirement.   
Intermountain has provided documentation that it has the funds available 
for the deposit required by AT&T California, Frontier California, Frontier 
Communications, and Consolidated Communications if necessary.  Therefore, no 
additional resources are required at this time to cover deposits. 
Intermountain’s financial documentation will be subject to verification and 
review by the Commission for one year to ensure that such funds are available. 
5. Technical Qualifications  
To be granted a CPCN for authority to provide competitive local exchange 
and interexchange service, an applicant must make a reasonable showing of 
managerial and technical expertise in telecommunications or a related business.  
Intermountain discussed the technical and managerial qualifications of its chief 
executive officer and its chief financial officer.16  In addition, Intermountain 
supplied biographical information on its management in Exhibit A to its 
application that demonstrates Intermountain has sufficient expertise and training 
to operate as a telecommunications provider. 
In its application, Intermountain verified that no one associated with or 
employed by Intermountain as an affiliate, officer, director, partner, or owner of 
                                              
15  Application at Exhibit F. 
16  Id., at 5 -6. 
147 of 445

--- page 148 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 11 - 
more than 10 percent of Intermountain, or anyone acting in a management 
capacity for Intermountain: 
(a) held one of these positions with a company that filed for 
bankruptcy; (b) been personally found liable, or held one 
of these positions with a company that has been found 
liable, for fraud, dishonesty, failure to disclose, or 
misrepresentations to consumers or others; (c) been 
convicted of a felony; (d) been (to his/her knowledge) the 
subject of a criminal referral by judge or public agency; (e) 
had a telecommunications license or operating authority 
denied, suspended, revoked, or limited in any jurisdiction; 
(f) personally entered into a settlement, or held one of these 
positions with a company that has entered into settlement 
of criminal or civil claims involving violations of §§ 17000 
et seq., §§ 17200 et seq., or §§ 17500 et seq. of the California 
Business & Professions Code, or of any other statute, 
regulation, or decisional law relating to fraud, dishonesty, 
failure to disclose, or misrepresentations to consumers or 
others; or (g) been found to have violated any statute, law, 
or rule pertaining to public utilities or other regulated 
industries; or (h) entered into any settlement agreements or 
made any voluntary payments or agreed to any other type 
of monetary forfeitures in resolution of any action by any 
regulatory body, agency, or attorney general.17  
Also, to the best of Intermountain’s knowledge, neither Intermountain, or 
any affiliate, officer, director, partner, nor owner of more than 10 percent of 
Intermountain, or any person acting in such capacity whether or not formally 
appointed, is being, or has been investigated by the Federal Communications 
                                              
17  These certifications are required by D.13-05-035, Ordering Paragraph 14. 
148 of 445

--- page 149 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 12 - 
Commission or any law enforcement or regulatory agency for failure to comply 
with any law, rule or order.18 
For the above reasons, we find that Intermountain is in compliance with 
the requirements of D.13-05-035. 
6. Tariffs 
Intermountain asserts a tariff is not required because it “will provide 
services and facilities on an individually-negotiated contract basis.”19  
Intermountain “will not provide switched access service or basic single-line 
residential service.”20  In effect, Intermountain requests detariffed status.   
Because Intermountain is not providing residential local service at this 
time, Intermountain may be exempt from the requirement to file tariffs.   
In the future, if Intermountain decides to offer services that require a tariff, 
such as local exchange services for residential customers, Intermountain must 
submit proposed tariffs and/or user guides to the Communications Division via 
Tier 2 advice letters using the GO 96-B advice letter process before initiation of 
service.  Furthermore, Intermountain shall comply with the consumer protection 
rules identified in D.98-08-031.  
7. Map of Service Territory 
To be granted a CPCN for authority to provide competitive local exchange 
service, an applicant must provide a map of the service territories it proposes to 
serve.21  As part of its October 22, 2019 response to ALJ’s October 19, 2018 ruling, 
                                              
18  Id. 
19  Application at 9. 
20  Id. 
21  D.95-12-056 at Appendix C, Rule 4.E.   
149 of 445

--- page 150 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 13 - 
Intermountain provided Revised Exhibit E, which depicts the location of its 
proposed service territory, in compliance with this requirement. 
8. Rule 3.1(i) Statement  
Rule 3.1(i) sets forth the requirement that a utility filing an application 
under Pub. Util. Code § 1001, provide a statement regarding GO 104-A, Section 2.  
Intermountain states that it is not aware of any reportable matters pursuant to 
GO 104-A, Section 2.22  Intermountain, therefore, has nothing to report under this 
rule.   
On a going forward basis, though, Intermountain must file all reports 
required of a public utility under Commission jurisdiction. 
9. Expected Customer Base 
Intermountain estimates it will serve ten customers during the first year of 
operation and 50 customers during the fifth year of operation.23  Therefore, 
Intermountain has complied with this requirement. 
10. Request for Treatment as a Non-dominant Carrier 
Applicant requests treatment as a non-dominant interexchange carrier 
(NDIEC) by stating it “will operate as a non-dominant carrier.”24  Applicant is a 
“small start-up” and “will compete against large established carriers such as 
AT&T California, Frontier California, AT&T Communications, CenturyLink, and 
others having far greater financial resources and established customer bases.”25  
                                              
22  Application at 9. 
23  Id. 
24  Id., p. 6. 
25  Response of Intermountain Infrastructure Group, LLC to Assigned ALJ Ruling, Jan. 4, 2019, 
at 5. 
150 of 445

--- page 151 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 14 - 
As an NDIEC, Applicant requests exemption from the requirements of 
Pub. Util. Code §§ 816 – 830 concerning stocks and security and § 851 concerning 
the encumbrance and transfer of utility property.26  While the Commission has 
granted exemption from §§ 816 – 830 to others, exemption from §§ 851 – 854 is 
not commonly granted and an exception is not warranted here. The Commission 
detailed its rules regarding exemption of non-dominant carriers in D.85-01-008, 
and subsequently modified in D.85-07-081 and D.85-11-044.  We grant 
Applicant’s request for non-dominant interexchange carrier status, which 
provides an exemption from Pub. Util. Code §§ 816 – 830 concerning stocks and 
security, provided that it follows all rules detailed in the above referenced 
decisions.27 
11. Safety Considerations 
With the adoption of the Safety Policy Statement of the California Public 
Utilities Commission on July 10, 2014, the Commission has, among other things, 
heightened its focus on the potential safety implications of every proceeding.  We 
have considered the potential safety implications here.  The Commission is 
satisfied that Intermountain will meet the Commission’s minimum safety goals 
and expectations of competitive local exchange carriers (CLECs) because: 
1) Intermountain has taken steps to meet the financial requirements as set forth 
in this decision for a facilities-based CLEC, and 2) Intermountain is a public 
utility that is required pursuant to Pub. Util. Code § 451 to “… furnish and 
maintain such adequate, efficient, just and reasonable service, instrumentalities, 
equipment, and facilities, including telephone facilities …  as are necessary to 
                                              
26  Application at 6. 
 
151 of 445

--- page 152 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 15 - 
promote the safety, health, comfort, and convenience of its patrons, employees, 
and the public.”   
12. Conclusion 
We conclude that the application conforms to our rules for certification as 
a competitive local exchange and interexchange carrier.  Accordingly, we grant 
intermountain 1) full facilities-based and resold competitive telecommunications 
services in the service territories of AT&T California, Frontier California, Frontier 
Communications, and Consolidated Communications; and 2) full facilities-based 
and resold interexchange service in California subject to compliance with the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Ordering Paragraphs. 
The CPCN granted by this decision provides benefits to Intermountain 
and corresponding obligations.  Intermountain receives authority to operate in 
the prescribed service territory, and this authority enables Intermountain, 
pursuant to section 251 of the 1934 Communications Act, as amended by the 
1996 Telecommunications Act (47 U.S.C. § 251), to interconnect with 
telecommunications carriers.28  This authority also enables Intermountain to 
obtain access to public rights-of-way in California as set forth in D.98-10-058, 
subject to the CEQA requirements set forth in this decision.   
In return, Intermountain shall comply with all Public Utilities Code 
provisions, Commission rules, General Orders, and decisions applicable to 
telephone corporations providing approved services.  The applicable statutes, 
rules, General Orders, and decisions include, but are not limited to consumer 
                                              
28  The California Public Utilities Code uses the term “telephone corporation.”  Its counterpart in 
federal law is a “telecommunications carrier.”   
 
152 of 445

--- page 153 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 16 - 
protection rules, tariffing, and reporting requirements.  Moreover, Intermountain 
shall pay all Commission prescribed user fees and public purpose program 
surcharges as set forth in the Appendix B of this decision, comply with CEQA, 
and adhere to Pub. Util. Code § 451 which states that every public utility “…shall 
furnish and maintain such adequate, efficient, just, and reasonable service, 
instrumentalities, equipment, and facilities, including telephone facilities, as 
defined in § 54.1 of the Civil Code, as are necessary to promote the safety, health, 
comfort, and convenience of its patrons, employees, and the public.” 
13. Request to File Under Seal 
Pursuant to Rule 11.4 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and 
Procedure, Intermountain has filed motions for leave to file Exhibit F, the 
financial documentation supporting the application, as confidential materials 
under seal.  Intermountain represents that the information is sensitive, and 
disclosure could place Intermountain at an unfair business disadvantage.  We 
have granted similar requests in the past and do so here.  
14. Categorization and Need for Hearings  
In Resolution ALJ 176-3417, dated May 31, 2018, the Commission 
preliminarily categorized this application as ratesetting, and preliminarily 
determined that an evidentiary hearing is necessary.  On October 24, 2018, the 
assigned ALJ held a pre-hearing conference.  On November 15, 2018, the 
assigned Commissioner issued the Scoping Memo and Ruling choosing to not 
disturb the preliminary determination that an evidentiary hearing is necessary.  
No protests have been received.  There is no apparent reason why the application 
should not be granted.  Given these developments, this decision now concludes 
that an evidentiary hearing is not necessary.  
153 of 445

--- page 154 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 17 - 
15. Waiver of Comment Period 
This is an uncontested matter in which the decision grants the relief 
requested.  Accordingly, pursuant to § 311(g)(2) of the Pub. Util. Code and 
Rule 14.6(c)(2), the otherwise applicable 30-day period for public review and 
comment is waived. 
16. Assignment of Proceeding 
Liane M. Randolph is the assigned Commissioner and Zhen Zhang is the 
assigned ALJ in this proceeding. 
Findings of Fact  
1. Intermountain is a telephone corporation and a public utility as defined in 
Pub. Util. Code § 234(a) and § 216(a). 
2. The Commission is the Lead Agency for this project under CEQA. 
3. Intermountain’s proposed construction activities may fall within one or 
more CEQA categorical exemptions. 
4. Intermountain’s authority to provide telecommunications services will not 
have a significant adverse effect upon the environment. 
5. Intermountain has a minimum of $100,000 of cash or cash equivalent that 
is reasonably liquid and readily available to meet its start-up expenses. 
6. Intermountain has sufficient additional cash or cash equivalent to cover 
deposits that may be required by other telephone corporations in order to 
provide the proposed service. 
7. Intermountain’s management possesses sufficient experience, knowledge, 
and technical expertise to provide local exchange services to the public. 
8. No one associated with or employed by Intermountain as an affiliate, 
officer, director, partner, agent, or owner (directly or indirectly) of more than 
10 percent of Intermountain, or anyone acting in a management capacity for 
154 of 445

--- page 155 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 18 - 
Intermountain:  (a) held one of these positions with a company that filed for 
bankruptcy; (b) been personally found liable, or held one of these positions with 
a company that has been found liable, for fraud, dishonesty, failure to disclose, 
or misrepresentations to consumers or others; (c) been convicted of a felony; 
(d) been the subject of a criminal referral by judge or public agency; (e) had a 
telecommunications license or operating authority denied, suspended, revoked, 
or limited in any jurisdiction; (f) personally entered into a settlement, or held one 
of these positions with a company that has entered into settlement of criminal or 
civil claims involving violations of §§ 17000 et seq., §§ 17200 et seq., or 
§§ 17500 et seq. of the California Business & Professions Code, or of any other 
statute, regulation, or decisional law relating to fraud, dishonesty, failure to 
disclose, or misrepresentations to consumers or others; or (g) been found to have 
violated any statute, law, or rule pertaining to public utilities or other regulated 
industries; or (h) entered into any settlement agreements or made any voluntary 
payments or agreed to any other type of monetary forfeitures in resolution of any 
action by any regulatory body, agency, or attorney general. 
9. To the best of Intermountain’s knowledge, neither Intermountain, or any 
affiliate, officer, director, partner, nor owner of more than 10 percent of 
Intermountain, or any person acting in such capacity whether or not formally 
appointed, is being, or has been investigated by the Federal Communications 
Commission or any law enforcement or regulatory agency for failure to comply 
with any law, rule or order. 
10. Intermountain requested and is eligible for exemption from tariffing 
requirements and must observe the consumer protection rules adopted in 
D.98-08-031. 
155 of 445

--- page 156 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 19 - 
11. Intermountain provided a map of the location of its proposed service 
territory. 
12. Intermountain has no information to report under Rule 3.1(i), which 
requires that a utility filing an application under Pub. Util. Code §1001, provide a 
statement regarding compliance with GO 104-A, Section 2. 
13. Intermountain provided an estimate of its customer base for the first and 
fifth year of operation. 
14. Pursuant to Rule 11.4, Intermountain filed a motion for leave to file 
Exhibit F as confidential under seal. 
Conclusions of Law 
1. Intermountain should be granted a CPCN to provide 1) full facilities-based 
and resold competitive telecommunications services in the service territories of 
AT&T California, Frontier California, Frontier Communications, and 
Consolidated Communications; and 2) full facilities-based and resold 
interexchange service in California, subject to the terms and conditions set forth 
in the Ordering Paragraphs. 
2. Intermountain should be allowed to use the Energy Division 21-day CEQA 
exemption process.   
3. Intermountain, once granted a CPCN, should be subject to the applicable 
Commission rules, decisions, General Orders, and statutes that pertain to 
California public utilities.  
4. Intermountain should be granted an exemption from the requirement to 
file tariffs. 
5. Intermountain’s motion to file under seal its Exhibit F to the application, 
should be granted for three years. 
156 of 445

--- page 157 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 20 - 
6. Intermountain should be granted non-dominant carrier status, subject to 
Commission rules and regulations as detailed in D.85-01-008 and modified in 
D.85-07-081 and D.85-11-044. 
O R D E R  
IT IS ORDERED that:  
1. A certificate of public convenience and necessity is granted to 
Intermountain to provide 1) full facilities-based and resold competitive 
telecommunications services in the service territories of AT&T California, 
Frontier California, Frontier Communications, and Consolidated 
Communications, formerly SureWest Telephone; and 2) full facilities-based and 
resold interexchange service in California, subject to the terms and conditions set 
forth below. 
2. In the event Intermountain decides to offer services that require a tariff, 
such as local exchange services for residential customers, Intermountain must 
submit proposed tariffs and/or user guides to the Communications Division via 
Tier 2 advice letters using the General Order 96-B advice letter process before 
initiation of service.   
3. The corporate identification number assigned to Intermountain, U7355C, 
must be included in the caption of all original filings with this Commission, and 
in the titles of other pleadings filed in existing cases. 
4. Intermountain must file, in this docket, a written acceptance of the 
certificate granted in this proceeding within 30 days of the effective date of this 
decision.  Written acceptance filed in this docket does not reopen the proceeding. 
5. The certificate granted by this decision will expire if not exercised within 
12 months of the effective date of this decision. 
157 of 445

--- page 158 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 21 - 
6. Intermountain must notify the Director of the Communications Division of 
the date that local exchange service is first rendered to the public, no later than 
five days after service first begins, by email to cdcompliance@cpuc.ca.gov.  
7. Intermountain must obtain a performance bond of at least $25,000 in 
accordance with Decision 13-05-035.  The performance bond must be a 
continuous bond (i.e., there is no termination date on the bond) issued by a 
corporate surety company authorized to transact surety business in California, 
and the Commission must be listed as the obligee on the bond.  Within five days 
of acceptance of its certificate of public convenience and necessity authority, 
Intermountain must submit a Tier 1 advice letter to the Communications 
Division, containing a copy of the license holder’s executed bond, and submit a 
Tier-1 advice letter annually, but not later than March 31, with a copy of the 
executed bond.  
8. Intermountain must not allow its performance bond to lapse during any 
period of its operation.  Pursuant to Decision 13-05-035, the Commission may 
revoke a certificate of public convenience and necessity if a carrier is more than 
120 days late in providing the Communications Division a copy of its executed 
performance bond and the carrier has not been granted an extension of time by 
the Communications Division. 
9. In addition to all the requirements applicable to competitive local exchange 
carriers and interexchange carriers included in Attachments B, C, and D to this 
decision, Intermountain is subject to the Consumer Protection Rules contained in 
General Order 168, and all applicable Commission rules, decisions, General 
Orders, and statutes that pertain to California public utilities. 
158 of 445

--- page 159 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 22 - 
10. Intermountain must pay the public purpose surcharges specified in 
Attachment B, and the Combined California Public Utilities Commission 
Telephone Surcharge Transmittal Form must be submitted even if the amount 
due is $0.   
11. Intermountain must pay an annual minimum user fee of $100 or 
0.30 percent of gross intrastate revenue, whichever is greater.  Under Public 
Utilities Code § 405, carriers that are in default of reporting and submitting user 
fees for a period of 30 days or more will be subject to penalties including 
suspension or revocation of their authority to operate in California.   
12. Prior to initiating service, Intermountain must provide the Commission’s 
Consumer Affairs Branch with the name(s), address(es), and telephone 
number(s) of its designated contact person(s) for purposes of resolving consumer 
complaints.  This information must be updated if the name(s), address(es), or 
telephone number(s) change, or at least annually. 
13. Prior to initiating service, Intermountain must provide the Commission’s 
Communications Division with the name(s), address(es), and telephone 
number(s) of its designated regulatory/official contact person(s).  This 
information must be provided electronically, using the “Regulatory/Official 
Contact Information Update Request” found at 
http://www.cpuc.ca.gov/communications.  This information must be updated if 
the name or telephone number changes, or at least annually. 
14. Intermountain must submit an affiliate transaction report to the Director 
of the Communications Division, by email to cdcompliance@cpuc.ca.gov, in 
compliance with Decision 93-02-019, on a calendar year basis using the form 
contained in Attachment D. 
159 of 445

--- page 160 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 23 - 
15. Intermountain must submit an annual report to the Director of the 
Communications Division, by email to cdcompliance@cpuc.ca.gov, in 
compliance with General Order 104-A, on a calendar-year basis with the 
information contained in Attachment C to this decision. 
16.  Intermountain must submit an application for expanded authority to 
operate without NDIEC status prior to any full facilities-based construction.   
17. The staff of the Commission’s Energy Division is authorized to review, 
process, and act upon Intermountain’s requests for a determination that its full 
facilities-based construction activities are exempt from the requirements of the 
California Environmental Quality Act. 
18. If Intermountain wishes to engage in full facilities-based construction 
activities and believes that these activities are exempt from California 
Environmental Quality Act, Intermountain shall first apply to the Commission’s 
Energy Division staff for a determination of exemption from California 
Environmental Quality Act by providing the Commission’s Energy Division 
(Energy Division) with: 
a. A detailed description of the proposed project, including: 
i. Customer(s) to be served; 
ii. The precise location of the proposed construction 
project; and 
iii. Regional and local site maps. 
b. A description of the environmental setting, including at a 
minimum: 
i. Cultural, historical, and paleontological resources; 
ii. Biological resources; and 
iii. Current land use and zoning. 
c. A construction workplan, including: 
160 of 445

--- page 161 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 24 - 
i. Commission Preconstruction Survey 
Checklist-Archaeological Resources; 
ii. Commission Preconstruction Survey 
Checklist-Biological Resources; 
iii. A detailed schedule of construction activities, including 
site restoration activities; 
iv. A description of construction/installation techniques; 
v. A list of other agencies contacted with respect to siting, 
land use planning, and environmental resource issues, 
including contact information; and 
vi. A list of permits required for the proposed project. 
d. A statement of the California Environmental Quality Act 
exemption(s) claimed to apply to the proposed project; and 
e. Documentation supporting the finding of exemption from 
California Environmental Quality Act. 
f. The Energy Division will then review the submittal and 
notify Intermountain of either its approval or its denial of 
Intermountain’s claim for exemption from California 
Environmental Quality Act review within 21 days from the 
time that Intermountain’s submittal is complete. 
19. If the Energy Division approves Intermountain’s claimed California 
Environmental Quality Act exemption(s), the staff shall prepare a Notice to 
Proceed and file a Notice of Exemption with the State Clearinghouse, Office of 
Planning and Research.  If the Energy Division disapproves Intermountain’s 
claimed California Environmental Quality Act exemptions, the staff shall issue to 
Intermountain a letter which states the specific reasons that the claimed 
California Environmental Quality Act exemptions do not apply to the proposed 
project.   
20. If the Energy Division disapproves Intermountain’s claimed California 
Environmental Quality Act exemption(s), Intermountain shall either re-design 
161 of 445

--- page 162 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
 
- 25 - 
the specific project and facilities and then reapply for a finding of exemption 
from California Environmental Quality Act, or file a formal application with the 
Commission seeking the requisite approval and full California Environmental 
Quality Act review, before commencing any full facilities-based construction 
activities. 
21. Intermountain’s motion to file under seal its Exhibit F is granted for a 
period of three years after the date of this decision.  During this three year 
period, this information shall not be publicly disclosed except on further 
Commission order or Administrative Law Judge ruling.  If Intermountain 
believes that it is necessary for this information to remain under seal for longer 
than three years, Intermountain may file a new motion showing good cause for 
extending this order by no later than 30 days before the expiration of this order. 
22. Evidentiary hearing is not necessary. 
23. Application 18-05-021 is closed. 
This decision is effective today. 
Dated February 21, 2019, at San Francisco, California. 
 
MICHAEL PICKER 
 
 
 
 
 
                       President 
LIANE M. RANDOLPH 
MARTHA GUZMAN ACEVES 
CLIFFORD RECHTSCHAFFEN 
GENEVIEVE SHIROMA 
                 Commissioners 
 
 
162 of 445

--- page 163 ---
A.18-05-021 ALJ/ZZ1 /eg3 
 
 
 
 
A-1 
 
ATTACHMENT A 
 
This Attachment is Intentionally Left Blank 
 
 
 
 
(END OF ATTACHMENT A) 
 
 
 
163 of 445

--- page 164 ---
A.18-05-021 ALJ/ZZ1 /eg3 
 
 
 
 
B-1 
ATTACHMENT B 
 
REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO COMPETITIVE LOCAL EXCHANGE 
CARRIERS AND INTEREXCHANGE CARRIERS 
 
1. Applicant must file, in this docket with reference to this decision number,29 
a written acceptance of the certificate granted in this proceeding within 30 days 
of the effective date of this order. 
2.  The certificate granted and the authority to render service under the rates, 
charges, and rules authorized will expire if not exercised within 12 months of the 
date of this decision. 
3. Applicant is subject to the following fees and surcharges that must be 
regularly remitted.  Per the instructions in Exhibit E to Decision (D.) 00-10-028, 
the Combined California PUC Telephone Surcharge Transmittal Form must be 
submitted even if the amount due is $0. 
a. The Universal Lifeline Telephone Service Trust 
Administrative Committee Fund (Pub. Util. Code § 879); 
b. The California Relay Service and Communications Devices 
Fund (Pub. Util. Code § 2881; D.98-12-073); 
                                              
29  Written acceptance filed in this docket does not reopen the proceeding. 
164 of 445

--- page 165 ---
A.18-05-021 ALJ/ZZ1 /eg3 
 
 
 
 
B-2 
c. The California High Cost Fund-A (Pub. Util. Code § 739.3; 
D.96-10-066, at 3-4, App. B, Rule 1.C); 
d. The California High Cost Fund-B (D.96-10-066, at 191, 
App. B, Rule 6.F.; D.07-12-054); 
e. The California Advanced Services Fund (D.07-12-054); 
f. The California Teleconnect Fund (D.96-10-066, at 88, 
App. B, Rule 8.G). 
g. The User Fee provided in Pub. Util. Code §§ 431-435. The 
minimum annual User Fee is $100, as set forth in D.13-05-
035. 
Note:  These fees change periodically.  In compliance with 
Resolution T-16901, December 2, 2004, Applicant must check 
the joint tariff for surcharges and fees filed by Pacific Bell 
Telephone Company (dba AT&T California) and apply the 
current surcharge and fee amounts in that joint tariff on 
end-user bills until further revised.  Current and historical 
surcharge rates can be found at 
http://www.cpuc.ca.gov/General.aspx?id=1124.  
i. 
Carriers must report and remit CPUC telephone 
program surcharges online using the CPUC 
Telecommunications and User Fees Filing System 
(TUFFS).  Information and instructions for online 
reporting and payment of surcharges are available at 
http://www.cpuc.ca.gov/General.aspx?id=1010.  To 
request a user ID and password for TUFFS online filing 
and for questions, please e-mail 
Telco_surcharges@cpuc.ca.gov.  
ii. 
Carriers must submit and pay the PUC User Fee (see 
Item 3.g above) upon receiving the User Fee statement 
sent by the Commission Instructions for reporting and 
filing are available at 
http://www.cpuc.ca.gov/General.aspx?id=1009.  
Please call (415) 703-2470 for questions regarding User 
Fee reporting and payment.  
165 of 445

--- page 166 ---
A.18-05-021 ALJ/ZZ1 /eg3 
 
 
 
 
B-3 
4. If Applicant is a competitive local exchange carrier (CLEC), the 
effectiveness of its future tariffs is subject to the requirements of General Order 
96-B and the Telecommunications Industry Rules (D.07-09-019). 
5. If Applicant is a non-dominant interexchange carrier (NDIEC), the 
effectiveness of its future NDIEC tariffs is subject to the requirement of General 
Order 96-B and the Telecommunications Industry Rules (D.07-09-019). 
6.  Tariff filings must reflect all fees and surcharges to which Applicant is 
subject, as reflected in Item 3 above. 
7. Applicant must obtain a performance bond of at least $25,000 in accordance 
with Decision 13-05-035.  The performance bond must be a continuous bond (i.e., 
there is no termination date on the bond) issued by a corporate surety company 
authorized to transact surety business in California, and the Commission must 
be listed as the obligee on the bond.  Within five days of acceptance of its 
certificate of public convenience and necessity authority, Applicant must submit 
a Tier-1 advice letter to the Communications Division, containing a copy of the 
license holder’s executed bond, and submit a Tier-1 advice letter annually, but 
not later than March 31, with a copy of the executed bond.  
8. Applicant must not allow its performance bond to lapse during any period 
of its operation.  Pursuant to Decision 13-05-035, the Commission may revoke a 
certificate of public convenience and necessity if a carrier is more than 120 days 
late in providing the Communications Division a copy of its executed 
performance bond and the carrier has not been granted an extension of time by 
the Communications Division. 
9. Applicants providing local exchange service must submit a service area 
map as part of their initial tariff to the Communications Division. 
166 of 445

--- page 167 ---
A.18-05-021 ALJ/ZZ1 /eg3 
 
 
 
 
B-4 
10.  Prior to initiating service, Applicant must provide the Commission’s 
Consumer Affairs Branch with the name(s), address(es), and telephone 
number(s) of its designated contact person(s) for purposes of resolving consumer 
complaints. This information must be updated if the name(s),  address(es), and 
telephone number(s) change, or at least annually. 
11.  In addition, Applicant must provide the Commission’s Communications 
Division with the name(s),  address(es), and telephone number(s) of its 
designated regulatory/official contact persons(s).  This information must be 
provided electronically, using the “Regulatory/Official Contact Information 
Update Request” found at http://www.cpuc.ca.gov/communications. This 
information must be updated if the name(s),  address(es), and telephone 
number(s) change, or at least annually. 
12. Applicant must notify the Director of the Communications Division, in 
writing submitted by email to cdcompliance@cpuc.ca.gov, no later than five days 
after service first begins, of the date that local exchange service is first rendered 
to the public. 
13. Applicant must keep its books and records in accordance with the 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. 
14. In the event Applicant’s books and records are required for inspection by 
the Commission or its staff, it must either produce such records at the 
Commission’s offices or reimburse the Commission for the reasonable costs 
incurred in having Commission staff travel to its office. 
15. Applicant must submit an annual report to the Director of the 
Communications Division at cdcompliance@cpuc.ca.gov, in compliance with 
General Order 104-A, on a calendar-year basis with the information contained in 
Attachment C to this decision. 
167 of 445

--- page 168 ---
A.18-05-021 ALJ/ZZ1 /eg3 
 
 
 
 
B-5 
16. Applicant must submit an affiliate transaction report to the Director of the 
Communications Division at cdcompliance@cpuc.ca.gov, in compliance with 
D.93-02-019, on a calendar-year basis using the form contained in Attachment D. 
17. Applicant must ensure that its employees comply with the provisions of 
Pub. Util. Code § 2889.5 regarding solicitation of customers. 
18. Within 60 days of the effective date of this order, Applicant must comply 
with Pub. Util. Code § 708, Employee Identification Cards, and notify the 
Director of the Communications Division of its compliance in writing, by email 
to cdcompliance@cpuc.ca.gov. 
19. If Applicant is 90 days or more late in submitting an annual report, or in 
remitting the surcharges and fee listed in #3 above, and has not received written 
permission from the Communications Division to file or remit late, the 
Communications Division must prepare for Commission consideration a 
resolution that revokes Applicant’s CPCN. 
20. Applicant is exempt from Rule 3.1(b) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice 
and Procedure.  
21. Applicant is exempt from Pub. Util. Code §§ 816 – 830.  
22. If Applicant decides to discontinue service or file for bankruptcy, it must 
immediately notify the Communications Division’s Bankruptcy Coordinator. 
23. Applicant must send a copy of this decision to concerned local permitting 
agencies no later than 30 days from the date of this order. 
 
 
 
(END OF ATTACHMENT B) 
168 of 445

--- page 169 ---
A.18-05-021 ALJ/ZZ1 /eg3 
 
 
 
 
C-1 
 
 
ATTACHMENT C 
 
 ANNUAL REPORT 
 
An original and a machine readable, copy using Microsoft Word or compatible 
format must be submitted to the California Public Utilities Commission, State 
Office Building, 505 Van Ness Avenue, Room 3107, San Francisco, CA 
94102-3298, no later than March 31st of the year following the calendar year for 
which the annual report is submitted. 
 
Failure to submit this information on time may result in a penalty as 
provided for in Pub. Util. Code §§ 2107 and 2108. 
Required information: 
1. Exact legal name and U # of the reporting utility. 
2. Address. 
3. Name, title, address, and telephone number of the person to be contacted 
concerning the reported information. 
4. Name and title of the officer having custody of the general books of 
account and the address of the office where such books are kept. 
5. Type of organization (e.g., corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, 
etc.). 
If incorporated, specify: 
a. Date of filing articles of incorporation with the Secretary of State. 
b. State in which incorporated. 
6. Number and date of the Commission decision granting the Certificate of 
Public Convenience and Necessity. 
7. Date operations were begun. 
8. Description of other business activities in which the utility is engaged. 
9. List of all affiliated companies and their relationship to the utility.  State if 
affiliate is a: 
a. Regulated public utility. 
b. Publicly held corporation. 
169 of 445

--- page 170 ---
A.18-05-021 ALJ/ZZ1 /eg3 
 
 
 
 
C-2 
10. Balance sheet as of December 31st of the year for which information is 
submitted. 
11. Income statement for California operations for the calendar year for which 
information is submitted. 
12. Cash Flow statement as of December 31st of the calendar year for which 
information is submitted, for California operations only. 
For answers to any questions concerning this report, call (415) 703-2883. 
 
 
(END OF ATTACHMENT C) 
 
170 of 445

--- page 171 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
^ 
- 1 - 
 
ATTACHMENT D 
 
CALENDAR YEAR AFFILIATE TRANSACTION REPORT 
 
An original and a machine readable, copy using Microsoft Word and Excel, or 
compatible format must be submitted to the California Public Utilities 
Commission, State Office Building, 505 Van Ness Avenue, Room 3107, 
San Francisco, CA  94102-3298, no later than May 1st of the year following the 
calendar year for which the annual report is submitted. 
 
1. 
 Each utility must list and provide the following information for 
each affiliated entity and regulated subsidiary that the utility had during the 
period covered by the Annual Affiliate Transaction Report. 
 Form of organization (e.g., corporation, partnership, joint 
venture, strategic alliance, etc.); 
 Brief description of business activities engaged in; 
 Relationship to the utility (e.g., controlling corporation, 
subsidiary, regulated subsidiary, affiliate); 
 Ownership of the utility (including type and percent 
ownership) 
 Voting rights held by the utility and percent; and 
 Corporate officers. 
2. 
 The utility must prepare and submit a corporate organization chart 
showing any and all corporate relationships between the utility and its affiliated 
entities and regulated subsidiaries in #1 above.  The chart must have the 
controlling corporation (if any) at the top of the chart, the utility and any 
subsidiaries and/or affiliates of the controlling corporation in the middle levels 
of the chart, and all secondary subsidiaries and affiliates (e.g., a subsidiary that in 
turn is owned by another subsidiary and/or affiliate) in the lower levels.  Any 
regulated subsidiary must be clearly noted. 
171 of 445

--- page 172 ---
A.18-05-021  ALJ/ZZ1/eg3 
 
 
 
- 2 - 
3. 
 For a utility that has individuals who are classified as “controlling 
corporations” of the competitive utility, the utility must only report under the 
requirements of #1 and #2 above any affiliated entity that either (a) is a public 
utility or (b) transacts any business with the utility filing the annual report 
excluding the provision of tariff services. 
4. 
 Each annual report must be signed by a corporate officer of the 
utility stating under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California  
(CCP 2015.5) that the annual report is complete and accurate with no material 
omissions. 
5. 
 Any required material that a utility is unable to provide must be 
reasonably described and the reasons the data cannot be obtained, as well as the 
efforts expended to obtain the information, must be set forth in the utility’s 
Annual Affiliate Transaction Report and verified in accordance with Section I-F 
of Decision 93-02-019. 
6. 
 Utilities that do not have affiliated entities must submit, in lieu of 
the annual transaction report, an annual statement to the Commission stating 
that the utility had no affiliated entities during the report period.  This statement 
must be signed by a corporate officer of the utility, stating under penalty of 
perjury under the laws of the State of California (CCP 2015.5) that the annual 
report is complete and accurate with no material omissions. 
 
 
(END OF ATTACHMENT D) 
 
172 of 445

--- page 173 ---
Government Code 6103:
Exempt from Recording  Fee
VVHEN  RECORDED.  MAIL TO:
City of San  Mateo Attn:   City Clerk
330 West 20th Avenue San Mateo, CA 94403
UTILITY EQUIPMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN  MATEO AND  IIG  FOR
THE CONSTRUCTION,  INSTALLATION,  MAINTENANCE, AND  OPERATION  OF FIBER
OPTIC  NETWORK FACILITIES WITHIN THE  PUBLIC  RIGHT-OF-WAY
This Agreement ("Agreement")  is dated for identification this             of
2021,  by and  between the CITY OF SAN  MATEO,  a  municipal
corporation (herein termed "CITY"),  and  lntermountain  Infrastructure Group,  LLC,  a
Delaware limited  liability company  (herein termed  "IIG").
RECITALS
WHEREAS,  llG  has a certificate of qualification to do business in the State of
California;  and
WHEREAS,  llG  is authorized to provide telecommunication services in the State
of California  by the  Public Utilities Commission  of the  State of California  (herein termed
PUC);  and
WHEREAS,  llG desires to construct, install, and maintain Fiber Optic Network
Facilities within the  Public Right-of-Way within  CITY;  and
WH EREAS, CITY has the authority to regulate the terms and conditions for the
use of Public Right-of-\/Vay for the construction, installation, and maintenance of Fiber
Optic Network Facilities by private telecommunication services providers; and
NOW, THEREFORE,  in consideration of the recitals and the mutual promises
contained  herein,  CITY and  lIG agree as follows:
DEFINITIONS
"llG" shall  mean  lntermountain  Infrastructure Group,  LLC,  and  its  lawful  successors
or assigns.
"CITY" means the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation of the State
of   California,    and    includes   the   duly   elected    or   appointed    officers,    agents,
employees,  and volunteers of the CITY OF SAN MATEO, individually or collectively.
"Public Right-of-Way" means in,  upon,  along,  across,  and  under the public
streets,  ways,  alleys,  and  places,  and  including  public utility easements and  public
service easements, as the same now or may thereafter exist that are under
jurisdiction  of or controlled  by said  CITY.
Utility Equipment Agreement between the City of San  Mateo and  llG
Page  1  of 12
173 of 445

--- page 174 ---
"Fiber Optic Network Facilities" or "Facilities" means llG fiber optic cables,
coaxial,  Ethernet and copper cables, conduits,  converters, splice boxes,
cabinets,  handholes,  manholes,  vaults,  equipment,  drains,  surface location
markers,  appurtenances,  and related facilities located or to be located in the
Public Right-of-Way of CITY and used or useful for the transmission of
telecommunications.
"Telecommunications Services" means all communications services  llG  is
permitted to provide under applicable federal and state law, except that this
Agreement does not authorize llG to provide cable (TV) services as such term is
defined  in 47 U.S.C.  § 522,  broadcast television service or wireless (cell) service.
LIMITATIONS AND  RESTRICTIONS_
1.    CITY hereby grants authorization to llG,  subject to reservations,
covenants,  and conditions herein contained, to construct,  reconstruct,  install,
reinstall,  maintain and operate,  replace,  relocate,  and  remove Fiber Optic Network
Facilities used for Telecommunications Services within  Public Right-of-Way
located within the corporate limits of the CITY OF SAN  MATEO,  subject to
obtaining  all required  permits and approvals.
2.    This Agreement is not a grant by CITY of any property interest but is
made subject and subordinate to the prior and continuing right of CITY and its
assigns to use all  Public Right-of-Way jn the performance of its duty,  including,
but not limited to,  public use as a street and for the purpose of laying,  installing,
maintaining,  repairing,  protecting,  replacing,  and  removing sanitary sewers,
water mains, storm drains, gas mains,  poles,  overhead and underground electric
and telephone wires,  electroliers,  cable television,  and other utility and  municipal
uses together with appurtenances thereof and with right of ingress and egress,
along, over, across and in said Public Right-of-Way; provided, however, should lIG
be required to relocate its Fiber Optic Network Facilities due to the actions of any
nongovernmental third  party,  such third party shall  be required to reimburse llG
for its full cost of such relocation and lIG shall not be required to relocate its facilities
until it receives an executed reimbursement agreement from the
nongovernmental third party, unless removal is required to protect or preserve the
public health, safety, welfare or interest.
3.    This Agreement is made subject to all easements,  restrictions,  conditions,
covenants, encumbrances, and claims of title which may affect said Public Right-of-
Way,  and  it is understood that llG,  at its own cost and expense,  shall obtain such
permission as may be necessary consistent with any other existing  rights.
4.    The construction,  installation,  operation,  maintenance,  and  removal of said
Fiber Optic Network Facilities shall  be accomplished without cost or expense to
CITY subject to the approval of CITY's Public Works  Director in such a manner as
not to endanger personnel or property, or unreasonably obstruct travel on any road,
walk or other access thereon within said  Public Right-of-Way.
COMPLIANCE WITH  STANDARDS
5.    IIG shall at all times during the duration of this Agreement maintain said
Utility Equipment Agreement between the City of San  Mateo and  llG
Page 2 of 12
174 of 445

--- page 175 ---
Fiber Optic Network Facilities in good and safe condition  and free from any
nuisance to the satisfaction of CITY's Public Works Director.
6.    IIG shall construct,  install,  operate,  and  maintain all  Fiber Optic Network
Facilities in accordance and in conformity with all applicable CITY, State,  Federal,
and  regulatory laws,  ordinances,  rules,  and  regulations applicable under this
Agreement.
SERVICE CHANGE
7.    IIG  provides interstate and  intrastate Telecommunications Services in
California pursuant to its Certificates of Public Convenience and  Necessity received
from the PUG.
8.    IIG hereby warrants that the type of service offered to its customers through
the Fiber Optic Network Facilities in said  Public Right-of-Way consists solely of
providing  business,  residential and  government Telecommunications Services,
presently permitted by law.  If llG is authorized by the PUC to  change the nature and
character of its service and such service changes are to include additional and/or
alternative services that are subject to the regulatory authority of CITY,  including,
but not limited to, wireless telecommunications services and cable service (as such
term is defined  in 47  U.S.C.  § 522),  and  not preempted by State or Federal  law,  IIG
shall notify CITY in writing,  as soon as practicable,  but in  no event later than thirty
(30) days following such  a decision by the PUC,  and  comply with CITY's fee,
franchise, and/or permit requirements.  IIG acknowledges that any expansion or
change in the character and nature of the telecommunications service in general
may increase CITY's regulatory authority over such service and/or product,  and this
may,  at CITY's election,  require  llG to enter into a new Agreement consistent with
the requirements of a hereinafter enacted CITY ordinance regulating such services
or the expansion or change in service,  if all or any party of such service change falls
under the regulation, jurisdiction,  and authority of CITY.
NO FRANCHISE  RIGHTS  CREATED
9.    Nothing  in this Agreement shall be construed as granting  or creating
any franchise  rights.
REIVIOVAL AND  RELOCATION
10.  IIG shall remove or relocate, without cost or expense to CITY,  any  Fiber
Optic Network Facilities installed,  used,  and  maintained under this Agreement if
and when made necessary by any lawful change of grade, alignment,  or width of
any street,  including the construction,  maintenance,  or operation of any
underground facility by CITY and/or construction,  maintenance,  or operation  of any
other CITY underground or above ground facilities.  In the event all or any portion  of
said  Public Right-of-Way occupied  by said  Fiber Optic Network Facilities shall  be
needed  by CITY for governmental purposes or in the event the existence of said
Fiber Optic Network  Facilities shall  be considered detrimental to governmental
activities,  including,  but not limited to,  interference with CITY construction  projects,
or is  in  conflict vertically and/or horizontally with  any proposed  CITY installation,  llG
Utility Equipment Agreement between the City of San  Mateo and  llG
Page 3 of 12
175 of 445

--- page 176 ---
shall, following City notification,  remove and  relocate said  Fiber Optic Network
Facilities to such other  location or locations on said  Public Rightrof-Way as may be
designated  by CITY.  Said  removal or relocation shall  be completed within  ninety
(90) days of notification by CITY.  In the event said  Fiber Optic Network Facilities
are not removed or relocated within  ninety (90) days after said  notification and  llG
has not suffered a force majeure or other event beyond  its control,  CITY may cause
the same to be done at the sole expense of lIG.
11.  In those areas and  portions of CITY where the transmission or distribution
facilities of either the public utility providing telephone service or those of the
utility providing electric service as well as the facilities of other
telecommunications services providers are underground or hereafter may be
placed  underground, then llG shall likewise construct, operate, and maintain all of
its Fiber Optic Network Facilities underground. Forthe purposes of this subsection,
"underground" shall include a partial underground system. CITY shall not in any
manner be responsible for any costs  incurred by I lG in placing I lG's facilities
underground. Upon application by llG,  CITY's City Manager or histher designee,
in  CITY's sole discretion,  may allow these undergrounding requirements to be
waived.
12.  If any portions of the Fiber Optic Network Facilities covered  under this
Agreement other than redundant facilities or facilities for emergency use are no
longer used by I lG, or are abandoned for a period in excess of one (1) year, llG shall
notify CITY and shall either promptly vacate and remove the facilities at its own
expense or,  at CITY's discretion,  may abandon some or all of the facilities in place.
13.  \/\/hen  removal  or relocation are required  under this Agreement,  llG shall,  after
the removal or relocation of the Fiber Optic Network Facilities,  at its own cost,  repair
and  return said  Public Right-of-Way or public utility or service easements on which
the facilities were located to a safe and satisfactory condition in accordance with the
construction -related conditions and specifications as established  by CITY according
to its standard  practice.  Should  llG  remove the Fiber Optic Network Facilities from
said  Public Right-of-Way, llG shall, within ten (10) days after such removal,  give
notice thereof to CITY specifying the right-of-way affected and the location thereof as
well as the date of removal.  Before proceeding with  removal or relocation work,  llG
shall  obtain and CITY shall issue an encroachment permit from CITY.
CONSTRUCTION  PERMIT AND  FEES
14. IIG shall apply for an encroachment permit for any  Fiber Optic Network Facility
construction or maintenance work requiring traffic control within said  Public Right-of-
Way or public utilfty or service easements.  Consistent with CITY Standard
Provisions,  llG shall furnish detailed  plans of the work and other such  information as
required  by the Public Works Director of CITY and shall  pay all  processing, field
marking,  engineering, and  inspection fees prior to issuance of said  permit in
accordance with the rates in effect at the time of payment. All Fiber Optic Network
Facility construction within said  Public  Right-of-Way or public utility or service
easements shall be installed in accordance with the City of San Mateo City Code,
CITY's Standard  Provisions,  and as further provided for in the provisions of this
Agreement.
Utility Equipment Agreement between the City of San  Mateo and  llG
Page 4 of 12
176 of 445

--- page 177 ---
15. The encroachment permit shall set forth the description of the Fiber Optic
Network  Facilities to  be installed  and said  Public Right-of-Way or public utility or
service easements on which such facilities are to be located. Consistent with CITY
Standard  Provisions,  CITY shall establish  construction-related  conditions and
specifications,  and these shall also be set forth in the encroachment permit.
PERFORMANCE  BOND
16.  Prior to issuance of an encroachment permit,  lIG shall  provide CITY with a
performance bond naming CITY as obligee in the amount equal to one hundred
percent (1000/o) of the value of the work to be performed by or on behalf of llG
within and affecting said  Public Right-of-Way to guarantee and assure the faithful
performance of lIG's obligations under this Agreement.  CITY shall  have the right to
draw against the performance bond in the event of a default by llG or in the event,
that llG fails to meet and fully perform any of its obligations. The form of the
performance bond shall be approved  by the CITY. The performance bond shall
remain  in full force for one (1) year after the work to be performed is completed,
inspected,  accepted,  and released by CITY's Publicworks Director.
DAMAGE TO  FACILITIES  IN  PUBLIC
RIGHT-OF-WAY
17.               IIG shall  be responsible for any damage to CITY street pavements,
existing utilities,  curbs,  gutters,  sidewalks due to its installation,  maintenance,  repair,
or removal  of its Fiber Optic Network Facilities in said  Public Right-of-Way and
public utility or service easements,  and shall  repair,  replace,  and  restore in  kind the
said damaged facilities at its sole expense,
18.                If public Right-of-Way to  be used by llG has preexisting  installation(s)
placed  in the said  Right-of-Way,  IIG shall  assume the responsibility to verify the
location of the preexisting  installation  and  notify CITY and  any third  party of llG's
proposed  installation.  The cost of any work required  of such third  party or CITY to
provide adequate space or required clearance to accommodate llG's installation
shall  be borne solely by llG.
PARTICIPATION WITH  OTHER UTILITIES
19.  IIG agrees to  cooperate in the planning,  locating, and constructing  of its
Fiber Optic Net\^/ork Facilities in utilfty joint trenches or common duct bands with
other similar utilities and to participate in cost-sharing for the joint trench and  ducts,
when such joint utility installations are being  planned for or exist in an  area.
RECORDS  OF  FIELD  LOCATIONS
20. IIG  shall  maintain accurate maps and  improvement plans of said  Fiber Optic
Network Facilities located within CITY. IIG shall provide,  upon demand of cITY's
Public Works  Director and deliver to the office of CITY's  Public Works Department
free of charge,  and to other third  parties interested  in  performing work within  Public
Right-of-Way for a reasonable charge upon request, within thirty (30) days after
Utilrty Equipment Agreement between the Crty of San  Mateo and  llG
Page 5 of 12
177 of 445

--- page 178 ---
such demand,  such maps and plans as may be required to show in detail the exact
location, size,  depth,  and description of all  llG  Fiber Optic Network Facilities
installed within said  Public Right-of-Way.  IIG shall,  at its sole cost and expense,
expose by potholing to a depth of 1' below the bottom of its subsurface Fiber Optic
Network Facilities, within thirty (30) days of receipt of a written  request from  CITY to
do so.
21. IIG shall  be a member of the regional notification center for subsurface
installations (Underground  Services Alert) and shall field mark,  at its sole
expense, the locations of its underground  Fiber Optic Network Facilities upon
notification in accordance with the requirements of Section 4216 of the State of
California Government Code,  as it now reads or may herein after be amended.
HOLD  HARMLESS AND
INDEMNIFICATION
22. IIG, jointly and severally, for itself,  it successors,  agents,  contractors,  and
employees, agrees to indemnify, defend  (with counsel reasonably acceptable to
CITY),  and  hold harmless CITY,  its elected and appointed officials,  employees,  and
agents, and any successors to CITY's interest from and against any and all claims,
demands,  losses, damages,  liabilities, fines,  penalties, charges,  administrative and
judicial  proceedings and orders, judgments,  remedial actions of any kind,  and  all
costs and expenses incurred  in connection therewith,  including, without limitation,
reasonable attomey's fees and costs of defense (collectively, the "Losses") arising
directly or indirectly out of the  llG's activities or Facilities described  in this Agreement
and/or the installation,  operation,  removal,  and/or repair of the improvement and
Facilities thereto;  provided,  however,  lIG shall  not indemnify CITY,  its elected and
appointed officials, employees, and agents and any successors to CITY's interest for
losses arising directly or indirectly, from CITY's sole acts of negligence,  omissions,
or willful  misconduct.  CITY shall  not be responsible for any damages,  losses,  or
liabilfty arising from the issuance by CITY of a  permit or approval to any third  party or
any interruption in  service.
23. Except as set forth  in Section 22 of this Agreement,  IIG,  for itself and  its
successors and assigns,  hereby waives all claims and causes of action, whether
now existing  or hereafter arising,  against CITY or itselected  and  appointed  officials,
agents, or employees, for damages,  physical or otherwise, to any of the faci.lities
covered by this Agreement from any cause whatsoever.  Under no circumstances
shall either party be liable to the other party or otherwise responsible for any loss of
service downtime,  lost revenue or profits or third-party damages.
INSURANCE
24.  Insurance.
a.    Commercial  General  Liabilitv  Insurance:
lIG shall obtain and maintain Commercial General  Liability insurance on an  "occurrence"  basis,
including  products and  completed  operations,  property damage,  bodily injury and  personal &
advertising  injury with  limits  no less than  Five  Million  Dollars ($5,000,000)  per occurrence.  If a
general aggregate limit applies,  either the general aggregate limit shall  apply separately to this
contract or the general  aggregate limit shall  be twice the required occurrence limit.
Utility Equipment Agreement between the City of San  Mateo and  llG
Page 6 of 12
178 of 445

--- page 179 ---
b.    Automobile  Liabilitv  Insurance:
IIG shall  obtain  and  maintain Automobile Liability  insurance with  limit of no  less than Two  Million
Dollars ($2,000,000) per accident for bodily  injury and  property damage.
c.    Workers' Compensation  Insurance:
IIG shall obtain and  maintain statutory Workers' Compensation  insurance and  Employer's
Liability insurance with  limit of no less than  One Million  Dollars ($1,000,000)  per accident for
bodily injury or disease.
d.    AcceDtabilitv of Insurers:
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a ourrent Best Rafing of A: VII  unless otherwise
acceptable to CITY.
e.    Verification of coveraae:
Insurance, deductibles,  or self-insurance retentions shall  be subject to CITY's approval.  Original
Certificates of Insurance with endorsements shall  be received and approved  by CITY before
work commences, and insurance must be in effect for the duration of the contract. The absence
of insurance or a reduction of stated limits shall cause all work on the project to cease. Any
delays shall not increase costs to CITY or increase the duration of the  project.
f.     Other Insurance provisions:
(1 ) The City of San  Mateo,  its elected  and appointed  officials,
employees and agents are to be included as additional insured as their interest
may appear under this Agreement by lso Endorsement Form or other
endorsement approved  by CITY's Risk Manager for Commercial General and
Automobile  Liability  coverage.
(2) For any claims related to this project,  llG's insurance
coverage shall be primary and any insurance or self -insurance maintained by
CITY,  its officers,  officials,  employees,  and volunteers shall not contribute to it.
(3) I IG shall provide thirty (30) days notification to CITY in the
event of cancellation or modifications of limits to the stipulated coverage.
(4) ln the event llG employs subcontractors as part of the
work covered  by this Agreement,  llG shall  require all subcontractors comply
with the same insurance requirements that are stated in this Agreement.
(5) Approval  of this insurance by CITY or acceptance of the
Certificate of Insurance by CITY shall not relieve or decrease the extent to
which  llG  may be held  responsible for payment of damages resulting from
llG's services or operation  pursuant to this Agreement,  nor shall  it be
deemed a waiver of CITY's rights to insurance coverage hereunder.
(6) lf,  for any  reason,  IIG fails to  maintain  insurance
Utility Equipment Agreement between the City of San  Mateo and  llG
Page 7 of 12
179 of 445

--- page 180 ---
coverage that is required pursuant to this contract, the same shall be
deemed  a material  breach of contract.  CITY,  at its sole option,  may
terminate this contract and obtain damages from  lIG  resulting from said
breach.
ASSIGNIVIENT
25.        a.  IIG shall not assign  ortransferany interest in this Agreement
nor the performance of any of llG's obligations hereunder, without the prior
written consent of CITY,  and any attempt by llG to so assign this Agreement or
any rights,  duties,  or obligations arising  hereunder shall  be void and of no effect.
b.  Notwithstanding Section 25.a,  llG  may assign the rights
granted  herein,  in whole or in  part, to a parent,  successor,  subsidiary,  or
affiliate of llG,  now or hereinafter existing,  by only providing  notice {o CITY of
such assignment.  However, this Agreement shall be binding on successors
and  assigns and  shall  be disclosed to assignee.
ENTIRE UNDERSTANDING
26. This Agreement contains the entire understanding  between the
parties with  respect to the subject matter herein. There are no
representations, agreements,  or understandings (whether oral or written)
between or among the parties relating to the subject matter of this
Agreement which are not fully expressed herein. This Agreement may not be
amended except pursuant to a written instrument signed by all parties.
SIVERABILITY
27. If any one or more of the covenants or agreements or portions thereof
provided  in this Agreement shall be held  by a court of competent jurisdiction in a
final judicial  action to be void,  voidable,  or unenforceable,  such covenant or
covenants,  such agreement or agreements, or such portions thereof shall be null
and void and shall be deemed separable from the remaining covenants or
agreements or portions thereof and shall in no way affect the validity or
enforceability of the remaining  portions of this Agreement, and the parties shall
negotiate in good faith to replace any such covenant,  agreement, or portion found
to  be null and void.
THIRD-PARTY IVIODIFICATIONS
28.This Agreement shall be subject to such changes or modifications as
may be required or authorized  by any regulatory commission in the exercise of
its  lawful jurisdiction.
ENFORCEMENT
29. Failure to comply with the terms and  conditions of this Agreement may,  at
CITY's sole discretion,  result in withholding  issuance of any new encroachment
permits, termination of this Agreement,  code enforcement pursuant to the San
Utility Equipment Agreement between the City of San  Mateo and  llG
Page 8 of 12
180 of 445

--- page 181 ---
Mateo  Municipal Code,  and/or any additional  legal remedy provided  by law.
TERM AND TERIVIINATION
30. This Agreement shall terminate ten (10) years from the effective date. This
Agreement may be terminated by CITY upon sixty (60) days written notice to  llG  if
CITY reasonably determines that the provisions herein interfere with the use or
disposal of said  Public Right-of-Way or any part thereof by CITY. Where only a
portion  of llG's Fiber Optic Network Facilities interferes with the use or disposal  of
said  Public Right-of-Way,  CITY,  at its sole discretion,  may elect to require llG to
relocate the said portion in accordance with this Agreement. This Agreement may
be terminated  by CITY for failure,  neglect,  or refusal by llG to fully and  promptly
comply with any and all of the conditions of this Agreement, or for nonuse as
described  in Section  12 herein,  upon sixty (60) days written  notice,  unless llG
confirms within sixty (60) days of receipt of the notice that the cited  condition has
ceased,  been corrected or, subject to CITY's agreement, is diligently being pursued
by  llG.
31. This Agreement may be amended  in writing and signed  by both  parties.  Upon
termination  of this Agreement,  and  upon written request by CITY,  lIG,  at its own
costs and expense, agrees to remove or, at CITY's discretion,  abandon in place
some or all of its Fiber Optic Network Facilities from  Public Right-of-Way  and
restore said Public Right-of-Way as set forth in the Removal and  Relocation
provisions of this Agreement.  Should  lIG  in such event fail,  neglect,  or refuse to
make such removals or restoration within one hundred  eighty (180) days of CITY's
written request,  at the sole option of CITY,  such removal and restoration may be
performed  by CITY and the expense of llG, which  actual expense, including
administrative and legal costs, llG agrees to pay CITY upon demand.
NOTICE
32. IIG's Network Operations Center shall be available to CITY staff 24 hours a
day,  7 days a week,  regarding  problems or complaints resulting from the facilities
installed pursuant to this Agreement and may be contacted by telephone at:
800-444-9943
1lG shall designate a person in California who  is authorized to accept service of
process on  behalf of llG  regarding  such  problems or complaints.
33. All  notices given  or which  may  be given  pursuant to this Agreement  shall
be in writing  and transmitted  by United States mail or by private delivery systems
or  by  facsimile if followed by United States mail or by private delivery systems as
follows:
o  CITY:
Public Works Director
ity of San  Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo,  CA 94403
Utility Equipment Agreement between the City of San  Mateo and  llG
Page 9 of 12
181 of 445

--- page 182 ---
GOVERNING  LAW AND
VENUE
34. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California
and,  in the event of litigation,  venue will be in the County of San  Mateo or the
United States courts serving the County of San Mateo.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
Utility Equipment Agreement between the City of San  Mateo and  llG
Page 10 of 12
182 of 445

--- page 183 ---
lN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement between the CITY OF SAN
MATEO and  llG has been duly executed by the parties hereinabove named,  as of
the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
lntermountain  Infrastructure Group,  LLC
Jeffrey Yount,  President & CEO
lf a corporation,  can be either  1)  President or 2)
Vice president plus an additional corporate
officer (e.g. Secretary, Treasurer), who shall
sign  below,
se,a    a+lycheL
Page 11  of 12
183 of 445

--- page 184 ---
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
A notary public or other officer completing this
certificate verifies only the identity of the individual
who signed the document to which this certificate is
attached, and not the truthfulness,  accuracy,  or
validity  of that document.
State of California
County of
San  Mateo
before me, Akshay Sehgal,  Notary  Public
(insert name and title of the officer)
subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in
his/her/their authorized capacity(ies),  and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the
person(s),  or the entity upon  behalf of which the person(s) acted,  executed the instrument.
I  certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing
paragraph is true and correct.
WITNESS  my hand and official seal.
`-T-'`   r  ^,--|-„               ul
(Seal)
''.'          -`.;'lL-I-iE-(`CO-i„|i`,t                ed
s|sf:;=r_ii.'ii_Li^.pj:ing2ti¥
184 of 445

--- page 185 ---
APPROVED ASTO FORM
Linh  P.  Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER
(lf necessary,  per above)
Page  12 of 12
185 of 445

--- page 186 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  15
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4899
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
July 19, 2021 
SUBJECT:
California Department of Transportation Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Program – Grant Funding and 
Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the acceptance of grant funding with the California Department of Transportation for the 
Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Program and authorize the City Manager to execute a funding agreement and 
any necessary documents.
BACKGROUND:
The California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) released a call for projects in Summer 2020 for the fiscal year 2021-
22 Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Program. The program funds projects that support sustainable communities’ 
strategies, the goals and best practices in the California Transportation Commission’s Regional Transportation Plan 
Guidelines, and help to achieve the State's greenhouse gas reduction targets. 
The Public Works Department, Community Development Department, and the City Manager's Office jointly prepared a 
grant application in the amount of $490,882 for the development of the San Mateo Complete Streets Plan. City Council 
approved a letter of support to accompany the application at its February 1, 2021 meeting. The Complete Streets Plan is 
intended to complement the City’s ongoing General Plan Update by creating an actionable transportation plan that 
considers safety for all modes of transportation and results in policies, goals, and prioritized projects that improve 
mobility, equity, connectivity, and sustainability. The Complete Streets Plan will combine existing transportation and 
related plans with a data-driven safety analysis to identify priority areas and projects in the City to implement a cohesive, 
safe transportation network for all users. 
Caltrans notified City staff in June 2021 that the grant application was recommended for funding. Staff recommends City 
Council adopt the Resolution as required by Caltrans to authorize the City Manager to execute a funding agreement 
necessary to receive the grant funding. Caltrans has not yet provided the proposed funding agreement; staff will review 
the proposed agreement and any related documents when received. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for adopting this resolution. There is a required minimum 11.47% local match ($94,621) , and 
sufficient Measure A funds are available to fulfill the required local match.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This resolution is not a project subject to CEQA, because preparation of the San Mateo Complete Streets Plan does not 
involve a commitment to construct a specific project and it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
186 of 445

--- page 187 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
187 of 445

--- page 188 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. 
(2021)
AUTHORIZING THE CITY MANAGER TO EXECUTE AGREEMENTS WITH THE CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT 
OF TRANSPORTATION FOR THE SAN MATEO COMPLETE STREETS PLAN
WHEREAS, in December 2020 the California Department of Transportation released a Call for 
Projects for grant funding from the Fiscal Year 2021-22 Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant 
Program; and
WHEREAS, at the February 1, 2021 City Council meeting, Council adopted a resolution to 
authorize a letter of support for the San Mateo Complete Streets Plan project; and
WHEREAS, on June 22, 2021, the California Department of Transportation notified staff of 
conditional award of $490,882 in Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant funding for the San Mateo 
Complete Streets Plan; and 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo is eligible to receive Federal and State funding for certain 
transportation planning related plans, through the California Department of Transportation; and
WHEREAS, a Restricted Grant Agreement is needed to be executed with the California 
Department of Transportation before such funds can be claimed through the Transportation Planning 
Grant Programs; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo wishes to approve acceptance of the grant and authorize the 
City Manager to execute the grant agreement, any amendments, and any other necessary documents;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, FINDS and RESOLVES
that:
1. The City of San Mateo approves acceptance of the grant and the City Manager is authorized to execute all 
Restricted Grant Agreements,  and any amendments thereto, and any other necessary documents with the 
California Department of Transportation and any other necessary documents. 
188 of 445

--- page 189 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  16
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4592
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
July 19, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Natural Gas Line Replacement and Improvements – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Award an agreement to EPS, Inc. dba Express Plumbing for construction of the Natural Gas Line Replacement and 
Improvements Project in an amount not to exceed $250,711; establish a contingency reserve in an amount of $25,000; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders 
within the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The Natural Gas Line Replacement and Improvements Project (Project) is part of the Clean Water Program’s (CWP) efforts 
to modernize the existing Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) and maintain safe and reliable operations.  An existing 
steel natural gas line at the WWTP serves the digester heating boiler system and provides fuel for heating in the existing 
buildings. This natural gas line has reached the end of its useful life and its replacement is critical for WWTP safety and 
reliability. This Project will replace the existing natural gas line with a new 3-inch medium density polyethylene pipeline 
connecting the WWTP facilities with the Pacific Gas and Electric tie-in point. 
In accordance with Municipal Code Section 3.60.030, a competitive public process was used to obtain bids for this service. 
A Notice Inviting Sealed Proposals and Bidding Documents was issued to advertise the project on March 30, 2021. Five bids 
were received and opened on April 27, 2021 with the following results: 
Contractor
Bid Amount
EPS, Inc.
$250,711
Kingdom Pipeline
$268,461
Trinet, Inc. 
$286,321
MBS Engineering
$329,522
Kiewit Infrastructure West Inc.
$332,237
The lowest bid of $250,711 is 10.5% percent below the engineer’s estimate of $280,000. 
The City was informed the Department of Industrial Relations – Division of Labor Standards and Enforcement issued a Civil 
Penalty and Wage Assessment to the lowest bidder, EPS, Inc. (EPS), in 2020, related to alleged violations of prevailing 
wages and apprenticeship standards set by the California Labor Code. EPS submitted a Request for Review and the matter 
is currently pending. As a final determination has not been made, staff recommends awarding the contract to EPS and 
believes disqualifying a contractor based on a pending case would set an unfair precedent. EPS has performed satisfactory 
work for the City in the past and has provided all required prevailing wage documentation for those contracts.
189 of 445

--- page 190 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Based on staff’s determination that the low bid submitted is responsive and responsible, staff recommends awarding the 
agreement to EPS, Inc. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding for this contract and contingency is available in the Annual Major Components Project. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The City prepared a Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) in accordance with the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (SCH No. 2015032006). Council on June 6, 2016, certified the PEIR. In accordance with 
CEQA, the Final PEIR serves as the primary environmental compliance document for the implementation of the Clean 
Water Program. The City prepared Addenda to the Final PEIR that was approved on July 16, 2018 (Addendum 1) and April 
15, 2019 (Addendum 2). This work is within the scope of the Project evaluated in the PEIR and Addendum. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement
Att 2 – Bid Summary
STAFF CONTACT
Daniel Patten, Project Manager II
dpatten@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7284
Azalea Mitch, Director of Public Works
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7309
190 of 445

--- page 191 ---
NATURAL GAS LINE REPLACEMENT
AND IMPROVEMENTS 46T090
AGREEMENT
PAGE - 1
SECTION 00 52 00
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is by and between the City of San Mateo (Owner)
And EPS Inc (Contractor).
Owner and Contractor, in consideration of the mutual covenants set 
forth herein, agree as follows:
1.
WORK
1.1. Contractor shall complete the Work as specified or indicated in the Contract 
Documents. The Work is generally described as follows:
1.1.1. The existing natural gas line at the City of San Mateo Wastewater 
Treatment Plant (WWTP) is nearing the end of it's useful life. This project 
will replace the existing natural gas line with a new 3-inch Medium Density 
Polyethylene (MDPE) pipeline connecting the WWTP facilities with the 
Pacific Gas and Electric tie-in point. Work shall include, but is not limited to, 
trenching, utility location, piping installation, burial, and asphalt repair. The 
project is described in detail in the Drawings and Specifications of this 
Contract Bid Book.
2.
THE PROJECT
2.1. The Project for which the Work under the Contract Documents may be the 
whole or only a part is generally described as follows:
2.1.1. Natural Gas Line Replacement and Improvements
3.
ENGINEER
3.1. Engineer means the licensed Engineer and its consultants, retained by the Owner 
to perform design services for the Project. 
4.
CONTRACT TIMES
4.1. Time of the Essence: Time limits for Milestones, if any, Substantial Completion, 
and completion and readiness for final payment as stated in the Contract Documents 
are of the essence of the Contract.
4.2. Days to Achieve Substantial Completion and Final Payment:
191 of 445

--- page 192 ---
NATURAL GAS LINE REPLACEMENT
AND IMPROVEMENTS 46T090
AGREEMENT
PAGE - 2
4.2.1. The Work shall be substantially completed within 120 working days 
from the date when the Contract Times commence to run as provided in 
Paragraph 2.03 of the General Conditions, and completed and ready for final 
payment in accordance with Paragraph 14.07 of the General Conditions within 
150 working days after the date when the Contract Times commence to run.
4.3. Liquidated Damages:
4.3.1. Contractor and Owner recognize that time is of the essence of this 
Agreement and that Owner will suffer financial loss if the Work is not 
completed within the times specified in Paragraph Contract Times above, plus 
any extensions thereof allowed in accordance with Article 11 of the General 
Conditions. The parties also recognize the delays, expense, and difficulties 
involved in proving in a legal or arbitration proceeding the actual loss suffered 
by Owner if the Work is not completed on time. Accordingly, instead of 
requiring any such proof, Owner and Contractor agree that as liquidated 
damages for delay (but not as a penalty) Contractor shall pay Owner $3,000 
for each day that expires after the time specified herein for Substantial 
Completion until the Work is substantially complete.
4.3.2. After Substantial Completion, if Contractor neglects, refuses, or fails to 
complete remaining Work within the Contract Time or any proper extension 
thereof granted by Owner, Contractor shall pay Owner $3,000 for each day 
that expires after the time specified herein for completion and readiness for 
final payment until the Work is completed and ready for final payment.
5.
CONTRACT PRICE
5.1. For all Work, at the prices stated in Contractor’s Bid, incorporated herein by 
reference, a lump sum of $250,711
6.
PAYMENT PROCEDURES
6.1. Submittal and Processing of Payments: Contractor shall submit Applications for 
Payment in accordance with Article 15 of the General Conditions. Applications for 
Payment will be processed by Engineer as provided in the General Conditions.
6.2. Progress Payments and Retainage: Owner will make progress payments on 
account of the Contract Price on the basis of Contractor’s Application for Payment on 
the date of each month as established in the preconstruction conference during 
performance of the Work as provided herein. All such payments will be measured by 
the Schedule of Values established as provided in Paragraph 2.05 of the General 
Conditions (and in the case of Unit Price Work based on the number of units 
completed) or, in the event there is no Schedule of Values, as provided in the General 
Requirements.
6.2.1. Prior to Substantial Completion, progress payments will be made in an 
amount equal to the percentage indicated below but, in each case, less the 
192 of 445

--- page 193 ---
NATURAL GAS LINE REPLACEMENT
AND IMPROVEMENTS 46T090
AGREEMENT
PAGE - 3
aggregate of payments previously made and less such amounts as Engineer 
may determine or Owner may withhold, including but not limited to liquidated 
damages, in accordance with Paragraph 15.01 of the General Conditions:
6.2.1.1. Ninety five percent of Work completed (with the balance 
being retainage). If the Work has been 50 percent completed as 
determined by Engineer, and if the character and progress of the 
Work have been satisfactory to Owner and Engineer, Owner, on 
recommendation of Engineer, may determine that as long as the 
character and progress of the Work remain satisfactory to them, there 
will be no additional retainage; and
6.2.1.2. Ninety five percent of cost of materials and equipment not 
incorporated in the Work (with the balance being retainage).
6.2.2. Contractor may elect to substitute securities of equivalent value in 
accordance with requirements and procedures of Sections 22300 or 10263 of 
the California Public Contract Code.
6.3. Final Payment:
6.3.1. Upon final completion and acceptance of the Work in accordance with 
Paragraph 15.06 of the General Conditions, Owner will pay the remainder of 
the Contract Price as recommended by Engineer as provided in 
Paragraph 15.06.
7.
INTEREST
7.1. Monies not paid when due as provided in Article 15 of the General Conditions 
shall bear interest at the legal rate unless otherwise specified according to California 
law.
8.
CONTRACTOR’S REPRESENTATIONS
8.1. In order to induce Owner to enter into this Agreement, Contractor makes the 
following representations:
8.1.1. Contractor has examined and carefully studied the Contract Documents 
and the other related data identified in the Bidding Documents.
8.1.2. Contractor has visited the Site and become familiar with and is 
satisfied as to the general, local, and Site conditions that may affect cost, 
progress, and performance of the Work.
8.1.3. Contractor is familiar with and is satisfied as to all federal, state, and 
local Laws and Regulations that may affect cost, progress, and performance of 
the Work.
193 of 445

--- page 194 ---
NATURAL GAS LINE REPLACEMENT
AND IMPROVEMENTS 46T090
AGREEMENT
PAGE - 4
8.1.4. Contractor has carefully studied: (1) reports of explorations and tests of 
subsurface conditions at or contiguous to the Site and drawings of physical 
conditions relating to existing surface or subsurface structures at the Site 
(except Underground Facilities), if any, which have been identified in 
Paragraph
8.1.5. Paragraph 5.03 of the Supplementary Conditions as containing reliable 
“technical data”, and (2) reports and drawings of Hazardous Environmental 
Conditions, if any, at the Site which have been identified in Paragraph 5.06 of 
the Supplementary Conditions as containing reliable “technical data.”
8.1.6. Contractor has considered the information known to Contractor; 
information commonly known to contractors doing business in the locality of 
the Site; information and observations obtained from visits to the Site; the 
Contract Documents; and Site-related reports and drawings identified in the 
Contract Documents, with respect to the effect of such information, 
observations, and documents on 1) the cost, progress, and performance of the 
Work; 2) the means, methods, techniques, sequences, and procedures of 
construction to be employed by Contractor, including any specific means, 
methods, techniques, sequences, and procedures of construction expressly 
required by the Contract Documents; and 3) Contractor’s safety precautions 
and programs.
8.1.7. Based on the information and observations referred to above, 
Contractor does not consider that any further examinations, investigations, 
explorations, tests, studies, or data are necessary for the performance of the 
Work at the Contract Price, within the Contract Times, and in accordance with 
the other terms and conditions of the Contract Documents.
8.1.8. Contractor is aware of the general nature of work to be performed by 
Owner and others at the Site that relates to the Work as indicated in the 
Contract Documents.
8.1.9. Contractor has given Engineer written notice of conflicts, errors, 
ambiguities, or discrepancies that Contractor has discovered in the Contract 
Documents, and the written resolution thereof by Engineer is acceptable to 
Contractor.
8.1.10.The Contract Documents are generally sufficient to indicate and 
convey understanding of terms and conditions for performance and furnishing 
of the Work.
8.1.11.Contractor’s entry in to this Contract constitutes an incontrovertible 
representation by Contractor that without exception, all prices in the 
Agreement are premised upon performing and furnishing the Work required 
by the Contract Documents.
194 of 445

--- page 195 ---
NATURAL GAS LINE REPLACEMENT
AND IMPROVEMENTS 46T090
AGREEMENT
PAGE - 5
9.
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
9.1. Contents:
9.1.1. The Contract Documents consist of the following:
9.1.1.1. This Agreement (pages 1 to 8, inclusive).
9.1.1.2. Performance bond (pages 1 to 4, inclusive).
9.1.1.3. Payment bond (pages 1 to 4, inclusive).
9.1.1.4. General Conditions (pages 1 to 52, inclusive).
9.1.1.5. Supplementary Conditions (pages 1 to 46, inclusive).
9.1.1.6. Specifications as listed in the table of contents of the Project 
Manual.
9.1.1.7. Drawings consisting of 11 sheets with each sheet bearing the 
following general title: “NATURAL GAS LINE REPLACEMENT 
AND IMPROVEMENTS”.
9.1.2. The following which may be delivered or issued on or after the 
Effective Date of the Agreement and are not attached hereto:
9.1.2.1. Notice to Proceed
9.1.2.2. Work Change Directives.
9.1.2.3. Change Order(s).
9.2. There are no Contract Documents other than those listed above in this Article.
9.3. The Contract Documents may only be amended, modified, or supplemented as 
provided in Paragraph 3.04 of the General Conditions.
10.
MISCELLANEOUS
10.1.Terms used in this Agreement will have the meanings stated in the General 
Conditions and the Supplementary Conditions.
10.1.1.Successors and Assigns: Owner and Contractor each binds itself, its 
partners, successors, assigns, and legal representatives to the other party 
hereto, its partners, successors, assigns, and legal representatives in respect to 
all covenants, agreements, and obligations contained in the Contract 
Documents.
195 of 445

--- page 196 ---
NATURAL GAS LINE REPLACEMENT
AND IMPROVEMENTS 46T090
AGREEMENT
PAGE - 6
10.1.2.Severability: Any provision or part of the Contract Documents held to 
be void or unenforceable under any Law or Regulation shall be deemed 
stricken, and remaining provisions shall continue to be valid and binding upon 
Owner and Contractor, who agree the Contract Documents shall be reformed 
to replace such stricken provision or part thereof with a valid and enforceable 
provision that comes as close as possible to expressing the intention of the 
stricken provision.
10.1.3.Assignment of Contract:
10.1.3.1.No assignment by a party hereto of any rights under or 
interests in the Contract shall be binding on another party hereto 
without the written consent of the party sought to be bound; and, 
specifically but without limitation, monies that may become due and 
monies that are due may not be assigned without such consent (except 
to the extent that the effect of this restriction may be limited by law), 
and unless specifically stated to the contrary in any written consent 
to an assignment, no assignment shall release or discharge the assignor 
from any duty or responsibility under the Contract Documents.
10.2.Contractor’s Certifications:
10.2.1.Contractor certifies that it has not engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive, or coercive practices in competing for or in executing the Contract. 
For the purposes of this paragraph:
10.2.1.1.“corrupt practice” means the offering, giving, receiving, or 
soliciting of anything of value likely to influence the action of a public 
official in the bidding process or in Contract execution;
10.2.1.2.“fraudulent practice” means an intentional misrepresentation 
of facts made (a) to influence the bidding process or the execution of 
the Contract to the detriment of Owner, (b) to establish Bid or Contract 
Price at artificial noncompetitive levels, or (c) to deprive Owner of the 
benefits of free and open competition;
10.2.1.3.“collusive practice” means a scheme or arrangement between 
two or more Bidders, with or without the knowledge of Owner, a 
purpose of which is to establish Bid prices at artificial, noncompetitive 
levels; and
10.2.1.4.“coercive practice” means harming or threatening to harm, 
directly or indirectly, persons or their property to influence their 
participation in the bidding process or affect the execution of the 
Contract.
196 of 445

--- page 197 ---
NATURAL GAS LINE REPLACEMENT
AND IMPROVEMENTS 46T090
AGREEMENT
PAGE - 7
10.3.Attorney Fees:
10.3.1.Attorney fees in amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and 
in total amount not exceeding $5,000, shall be recoverable as costs (that is, by 
the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to 
enforce the provisions of this Contract.  The above $5,000 limit is the total of 
attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or 
otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals or actions. 
It is the intent that neither party to this Contract shall have to pay the other 
more than $5,000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions, to 
enforce the provisions of this Contract. The parties expect and hope there will 
be no litigation and that any differences will be resolved amicably.
10.4.In accordance with Section 1775, California Labor Code, Contractor shall forfeit 
to Owner, as a penalty, not more than $50 for each calendar day, or portion thereof, 
for each worker paid, either by Contractor or any subcontractor, less than the 
prevailing rates as determined by the Director of California Department of Industrial 
Relations for the Work.
10.5.Contractor Registration:
10.5.1.Project is subject to compliance monitoring and enforcement by the 
California Department of Industrial Relations (DIR).
10.6.In the performance of the Work, a day’s work shall be 8 hours of labor in any 
workday and 40 hours in any work week and any other work as required by 
Section 510, California Labor Code, and Contractor shall further conform to the 
requirements of Section 1813, California Labor Code, or forfeit to Owner, as a 
penalty, the sum of $25 for each worker employed in the execution of the Work by 
Contractor or any subcontractor, for each day during which any worker is required or 
permitted to labor more than 8 hours in any workday or more than 40 hours in any 
1 calendar week in violation of Section 510.
10.7.Contractor shall carry workers' compensation insurance and require 
subcontractors to carry workers' compensation insurance as required by Section 3700, 
California Labor Code.
10.8.Pursuant to California Labor Code Section 6705, excavation of any trench or 
trenches 5 feet or more in depth, involving estimated expenditures in excess of 
$25,000 shall require, in advance of excavation, a detailed plan showing the design of 
shoring, bracing, sloping or other provisions to be made for worker protection 
prepared by a registered civil or structural engineer.
10.9.Pursuant to Section 1770 et seq., California Labor Code, the successful Bidder 
shall pay not less than the prevailing rate of per diem wages as determined by the 
Director of California Department of Industrial Relations. A copy of such prevailing 
rate is on file at the offices of the Owner, which copy will be made available for 
examination during business hours to any party on request. 
197 of 445

--- page 198 ---
NATURAL GAS LINE REPLACEMENT
AND IMPROVEMENTS 46T090
AGREEMENT
PAGE - 8
10.10.Contractor, by signing this Agreement, certifies the following: “I am aware of 
the provisions of Section 3700 of the Labor Code which require every employer to be 
insured against liability for workers’ compensation or to undertake self-insurance in 
accordance with the provisions of that code, and I will comply with such provisions 
before commencing the performance of the Work of this Contract.”
10.11.Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent Contractor or any Subcontractor from 
employing properly registered apprentices in the execution of the Agreement. 
Contractor shall have responsibility for compliance with California Labor Code 
Section 1777.5 for all apprenticeable occupations.
10.12.During the performance of Work under this Agreement, Contractor and its 
Subcontractors shall not unlawfully discriminate against any employee or applicant 
for employment because of race, religion, color, national origin, ancestry, physical 
handicap, medical condition, marital status, age (over 40) or sex. Contractors and 
Subcontractors shall insure that the evaluation and treatment of their employees and 
applicants for employment are free of such discrimination. Contractors and 
Subcontractors shall comply with the provisions of the Fair Employment and Housing 
Act (Gov. Code, § 12900 et seq.) and the applicable regulations promulgated 
thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11000 et seq.). The applicable regulations of the 
Fair Employment and Housing Council implementing Government Code 
section 12990, set forth in Subchapter 5 of Division 4.1 of Title 2 of the California 
Code of Regulations are incorporated into this contract by reference and made a part 
hereof as if set forth in full. Contractor and its Subcontractors shall give written 
notice of their obligations under this clause to labor organizations with which they 
have a collective bargaining or other agreement.
198 of 445

--- page 199 ---
NATURAL GAS LINE REPLACEMENT
AND IMPROVEMENTS 46T090
AGREEMENT
PAGE - 9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Owner and Contractor have signed this 
Agreement in triplicate. One counterpart each has been delivered to Owner, 
Contractor, and Engineer. All portions of the Contract Documents have 
been signed or identified by Owner and Contractor or on their behalf.
This Agreement will be effective on 
, 2021 (which is the Effective 
Date of the Agreement).
CITY OF SAN MATEO: 
CONTRACTOR: EPS, Inc.
By: 
By:  Nicholas Bechwati___________
Title: 
Title:  President
______
ATTEST:
ATTEST:
            
_______
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Title: Address for giving notices: 
City Attorney 
License No.  
(Where applicable) 
Agent for service or process:  
(If Contractor is a corporation, a partnership, or a joint venture, attach 
evidence of authority to sign.)
END OF SECTION
199 of 445

--- page 200 ---
UNIT
UNIT
PRICE
TOTAL
COST
UNIT
PRICE
TOTAL
COST
UNIT
PRICE
TOTAL
COST
UNIT
PRICE
TOTAL
COST
UNIT
PRICE
TOTAL
COST
UNIT
PRICE
TOTAL
COST
1
Natural Gas Line & Improvements
 $                          -    $   250,711.00  $   250,711.00  $    268,461.00  $  268,461.00  $   286,321.00  $  286,321.00  $  329,521.83  $  329,521.83  $   332,237.00  $  332,237.00 
 $                          -   
 $   250,711.00 
 $  268,461.00 
 $  286,321.00 
 $  329,521.83 
 $  332,237.00 
c:
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
ENGINEER'S ESTIMATE
BIDDER #1                  
Express Plumbing
BIDDER #2                  
Kingdom Pipeline
BIDDER #3                 
Trinet Construction
EST.
QTY.
BIDDER #5                 
Kiewit
Daniel Patten, WWTP Project Manager II
Bid Summary Binder
Project File
BIDDER #4                 
MBS Engineering
TOTAL
Azalea Mitch, DPW
CITY PROJECT NO. Natural Gas Line & Improvements
BID OPENING: April 27, 2021                                                                                                                         
BID SUMMARY
ITEM 
NO.
200 of 445

--- page 201 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  17
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 21-4808
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
July 19, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Wireless Telecommunications Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way – Amended Design Standards, Application Requirements 
and Permit Fees
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Design Standards and Application Requirements, authorize the Director of Public Works 
to make future revisions to the Design Standards, as necessary, to comply with applicable rules and laws, and amend the 
Wireless Communications Facilities Permit fee in the Adopted Comprehensive Fee Schedule for fiscal year 2021-22.
BACKGROUND:
The City introduced an ordinance for adoption to amend Chapter 17.10, “Wireless Communication Facilities in the Public 
Right-of-Way” of the San Mateo Municipal at the June 21, 2021 City Council meeting. The amendments to Chapter 17.10 
were recommended to comply with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)’s September 26, 2018 order, FCC 18-
133, the Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order in the Matter of Accelerating Wireless Broadband Deployment by 
Removing Barriers to Infrastructure Investment (the “FCC Order”) regarding small cell wireless facilities deployment (i.e. 
“small cells”). 
Based on the FCC Order, effective as of January 2019, all City permits and authorizations for small cells placed on an 
existing structure must be issued within 60 days from the submittal of the application materials. The total processing time 
for small cells placed on a new or replacement structure is 90 days from submittal. Failure to meet the shot clock 
establishes a presumption that the City effectively prohibited service. 
The FCC Order and the recent Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals case Portland v. FCC, No. 18-72689 (9th Cir. Aug. 12, 2020), 
confirmed that local governments may regulate aesthetic standards for small cells but are subject to certain limitations 
and must be published in advance. 
The FCC Order requires the City make City-owned vertical infrastructure in the public right-of-way available for the 
attachment of small wireless facilities by wireless carriers. The City’s Master License Agreement grants licensees the right 
to apply for individual site licenses to install their small wireless facilities on City-owned poles in the public right-of-way, 
such as streetlight poles. The City is limited by the FCC Order to cost recovery.  Therefore, the City will use the FCC’s “safe 
harbor” rate of $270 per year for each attachment to a City-owned structure in the public right-of-way as a license fee. 
This license fee will increase by 3% annually. The FCC Order stated that fees imposed as part of the regulation of small 
wireless facilities must be (1) a reasonable approximation of the local government’s costs, (2) based only on objectively 
reasonable costs, and (3) no higher than the fees charged to similarly situated competitors in similar situations. 
Based on these recent rules and orders, the City staff amended Municipal Code Chapter 17.10 for the Council to consider 
for adoption. At the introduction of the revised ordinance, staff also indicated that if the amended ordinance is approved, 
201 of 445

--- page 202 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the Design Standards and Application Requirements and revised Fee Schedule will require approval to be consistent with 
the recent legal requirements. 
Design Standards and Application Requirements 
The revised Design Standards and Application Requirements establish reasonable and comprehensive standards and 
procedures, including but not limited to the facilities’ siting, aesthetics, construction, operation, modification, and 
removal, for the permitting of small cells and other infrastructure deployments within the City. These design standards aim 
to promote the community’s interest of protecting the City of San Mateo’s visual character while complying with the FCC 
Order. 
It is important to note that, as a resolution rather than an ordinance, and by authorizing the Director of Public Works to 
make additional revisions to the Design Standards and Application Requirements, the City Council is allowing the 
procedures to be revised more quickly than if the contents were codified in an ordinance. This will allow the City to modify 
and adapt the policy in the future to respond to the rapidly changing law and technology related to small cells. By 
establishing revised policies and procedures, the City can continue to retain some degree of local control on the 
deployment of small cells and also enable staff to process applications within the required timeframe in accordance with 
objective aesthetic regulations required by law. 
Letters received by AT&T and Verizon just prior to the June 21, 2021 City Council meeting prompted staff to make 
additional revisions to the Design Standards and Application Requirements section of the version presented at the June 21, 
2021 meeting to highlight that the City’s regulations and preferences consider options that are technically feasible. The 
City’s response to the letters and a redlined version of the Design Standards are attached for reference. 
Revised Fee Schedule 
In accordance with the changes to federal law, the revised fees relating to the Wireless Communications Facilities Permit 
in the Comprehensive Fee Schedule also allow the City to:

Recover actual costs related to the processing of Wireless Permit applications by charging a reasonable and 
refundable deposit; 

Charge a reasonable deposit for a Master License Agreement, which is required in order to install a small cell 
wireless facility on a City pole in the right-of-way; 

Charge a reasonable safe harbor license fee of $270/per pole; 

Charge a deposit for procession Section 6409 Permit application for modifications of facilities that do not 
substantially change the physical dimensions of the existing facility; and 

Assess a reasonable hourly rate for City staff time related to processing a wireless permit in the right-of-way. 
These fees are based on a reasonable approximation of City’s actual costs associated with the processing of a Wireless 
Permit in the public right-of-way, are only assessed on objectively reasonable charges, and are non-discriminatory. 
Resolution 
The attached Resolution for consideration and adoption is thus recommended to 1) approve the revised Design Standards 
and Application Requirements; 2) authorize the Director of Public Works to make future revisions to the Design Standards, 
as necessary to comply with applicable rules and laws consistent with San Mateo Municipal Code Ch. 17.10; and 3) adopt 
an amended fee schedule for the permit and licensing fees and associated administrative costs related to wireless 
facilities. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The impact on revenue has not been fully determined. The fee is for cost recovery of staff time.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This approval of a resolution is not a project subject to CEQA, under CEQA Guidelines §15378, and it can be seen with 
certainty that it will not cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.) 
202 of 445

--- page 203 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Track Changes version of Design and Engineering Standards and Application Requirements 
Att 3 – Track Changes version of Fee Schedule
Att 4 – City Responses to AT&T and Verizon Letters
STAFF CONTACT
Tracy Scramaglia, Senior Engineer
tscramaglia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7316
Jay Yu, Engineering Manager
jyu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7323
203 of 445

--- page 204 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. _____ (2021) 
 
APPROVE AMENDED DESIGN STANDARDS AND APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR WIRELESS FACILITIES IN 
THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY; AMEND THE WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES PERMIT FEE SECTION TO 
REVISE FEES FOR WIRELESS PERMITS IN THE COMPREHENSIVE FEE SCHEDULE FOR 2021-2022 
 
WHEREAS, on July 16, 2018, the City of San Mateo adopted San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10, 
"Wireless Telecommunications Facilities in the Public Right-Of-Way" to regulate wireless communication 
facilities;  
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the City’s Municipal Code Chapter 17.10, the City Council authorizes the Director 
of Public Works to develop, publish and from time to time update or amend permit application requirements, 
forms, checklists, guidelines, informational handouts and other related materials that the Director finds 
necessary, appropriate or useful for processing any application governed under that Chapter; 
 
WHEREAS, on July 16, 2018, the City adopted by Resolution number 84, standard conditions of approval 
for wireless telecommunications permits in the public right-of-way, titled the “Design and Engineering Standards 
and Application Requirements”;   
 
WHEREAS, since that time, significant changes in federal laws that affect local authority over 
telecommunications facilities and other related infrastructure deployments in the public rights-of-way have 
occurred, including, but not limited to, the following: 
 
• 
On September 26, 2018, the FCC adopted a Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order, FCC 18-133 
(rel. Sep. 27, 2018) (the “Small Cell Order”), which, among many other things, creates a new regulatory 
classification for small wireless facilities, alters existing “shot clock” regulations to require local public 
agencies to act within 60 or 90 days on applications for small wireless facilities, and provides that a 
failure to act within the applicable timeframe presumptively constitutes an effective prohibition; 
 
• 
The Small Cell Order also specified safe harbor fees such as for a license to use the public right-of-way 
and also stated that fees imposed as part of the regulation of small wireless facilities must be: (1) a 
reasonable approximation of the local government’s costs, (2) based only on objectively reasonable 
costs, and (3) no higher than the fees charged to similarly-situated competitors in similar situations; 
 
• 
The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in Portland v. FCC, No. 18-72689 (9th Cir. Aug. 12, 2020), upheld the 
Small Cell Order and prior FCC orders except for the provisions dealing with local governments’ 
authority over aesthetic regulations. Aesthetic rules must be both reasonable and technically feasible 
based on the prior FCC Small Cell Order. 
 
WHEREAS, the significant adverse consequences for noncompliance with these changes in applicable 
law, the City Council finds that the revised aesthetic and operational regulations that supplements Chapter 
17.10 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is a necessary and appropriate means to protect the public health, 
safety and welfare from the potential harm caused by unregulated small wireless facilities and other 
infrastructure deployments in the public rights-of-way;  
204 of 445

--- page 205 ---
WHEREAS, the revised Design and Engineering Standards and Application Requirements, attached 
hereto as Exhibit “A” and incorporated herein by this reference, establishes reasonable, uniform and 
comprehensive standards and procedures for small wireless facilities and other infrastructure deployment in the 
public right-of-way, for the construction, installation, collocation, modification, operation, relocation and 
removal of such facilities within the City of San Mateo’s territorial boundaries, consistent with and to the extent 
permitted under federal and California state law;  
 
WHEREAS, the City Council wishes to set and revise fees and deposits attached hereto as Exhibit “B” and 
incorporated herein by this reference, related to licensing, permitting, and administering small cell wireless 
facilities in the City’s public right-of-way under Chapter 17.10 and the revised Design and Engineering Standards 
and Application Requirements, consistent with applicable laws; 
 
WHEREAS, the proposed fees and deposits are based on reasonable approximation of the City costs and 
staff’s actual hours spent on processing an application for a Wireless Permit under Chapter 17.10, and are thus 
reasonable, cost-based, and nondiscriminatory consistent with the FCC orders and applicable laws; 
 
WHEREAS, after receiving the evidence presented at the public hearing, including the staff report and 
any oral and written testimony received from the public, the City Council found that the amount of the fees 
established by this Resolution does not exceed the estimated reasonable cost of providing the service for which 
the fees are charged. 
 
 
WHEREAS, on July 19, 2021, the City Council held a duly noticed public hearing to consider this 
Resolution, the Design and Engineering Standards and Application Requirements, and the amended fee 
schedule, and at which the City Council received, reviewed and considered the staff report, written and oral 
testimony from the public and other information in the record. 
 
WHEREAS, in accordance with Government Code Section 66016, the City's data supporting the 
amount of the fees and deposits was made available to the public ten days before the July 19, 2021 City Council 
meeting; and 
 
WHEREAS, in accordance with Government Code Section 66018, a public hearing notice was 
published in accordance with Government Code Section 6062a; 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, THE CITY OF SAN MATEO CITY COUNCIL HEREBY FINDS, 
DETERMINES AND RESOLVES AS FOLLOWS: 
 
1. Findings. The City Council finds that: (a) the facts set forth in the recitals in this Resolution are true and 
correct and incorporated by reference; (b) the recitals constitute findings in this matter and, together 
with the staff report, other written reports, public testimony and other information contained in the 
record, are an adequate and appropriate evidentiary basis for the actions taken in this Resolution; (c) 
the provisions in this Resolution, revised Design Standards and Application Requirements, and Fee 
Schedule are consistent with the San Mateo Municipal Code and applicable federal and state laws; and 
(d) neither this Resolution, nor revised Design Standards and Application Requirements, nor the Fee 
Schedule will be detrimental to the public interest, health, safety, convenience or welfare. 
205 of 445

--- page 206 ---
2. Amended Design Standards and Application Requirements. The City Council approves and adopts the 
amended Design Standards and Application Requirements in Exhibit A. The City Council further 
authorizes the Public Works Director to develop, publish and from time to time update or amend the 
Design Standards and Application Requirements, including permit application requirements, forms, 
checklists, guidelines, informational handouts and other related materials that the Director finds 
necessary, appropriate or useful for processing any application governed under Chapter 17.10 and 
consistent with applicable rules and laws. 
 
3. Amended Comprehensive Fee Schedule.  The City Council hereby finds and declares that the fees and 
deposits in the amended Comprehensive Fee Schedule in the Wireless Communications Facilities  Permit 
fee section are: (1) a reasonable approximation of the City’s costs associated with regulating small 
wireless facilities, (2) based on objectively reasonable costs, and (3) are no higher than the fees charged 
to similarly-situated competitors in similar situations.  
The City Council approves and adopts the amended Fee Schedule in Exhibit B to recover the objectively 
reasonable costs incurred by the City relating to the review and processing of applications for small cell 
wireless facilities in the right-of-way, and are incorporated into the City’s Comprehensive Fee Schedule. 
The notes in the Fee schedule are also adopted to comply with San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 
17.10 and are consistent with applicable rules and laws. 
 
The Director of Public Works and/or Director of Finance are hereby authorized to administer and take all 
action relating to the collection and processing of the fees and deposits on behalf of the City regarding 
this Resolution. 
 
4. Environmental Review. The City Council finds that pursuant to CEQA Guidelines § 15378 and California 
Public Resources Code § 21065, the City Council finds that this Resolution is not a “project” because its 
adoption is not an activity that has the potential for a direct physical change or reasonably foreseeable 
indirect physical change in the environment. Even if this Resolution qualified as a “project”, pursuant to 
CEQA Guidelines §15061(b)(3), there is no possibility that this “project” will have a significant impact on 
the physical environment. This Resolution merely approves an amendment to Design Standards and 
Application Requirements, and an amendment to a fee schedule relating to the regulation of small cell 
wireless facilities in the public right-of-way. This Resolution does not directly or indirectly authorize or 
approve any actual changes in the physical environment. Applications for any new small wireless facility 
or other infrastructure deployment or change to an existing small wireless facility or other infrastructure 
deployment may be subject to additional environmental review on a case-by- case basis. Accordingly, 
the City Council finds that this Resolution is not subject to CEQA or, in the alternative, is exempt from 
CEQA under the general rule. 
 
5. Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase or term in this Resolution, is 
held illegal, invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, all other provisions not held 
illegal, invalid or unconstitutional, or such provision’s application to other persons or circumstances shall 
not be affected. 
 
6. Effective Date. This Resolution, Design Standards and Application Requirements, and Fee Schedule will 
become immediately effective upon adoption by the City Council. 
206 of 445

--- page 207 ---
a city of San Mateo

rVee

WORKS puaeee Works Departement

www cityofsanmateo.org
c



--- page 208 ---
Table of Contents 
 
Chapter 1 
Background and Purpose.................................................................................... 1 
Chapter 2 
Site Location, Pole Selection, & Design Standards .............................................. 3 
Chapter 3 
Application Process and Requirements .............................................................. 7 
Chapter 4 
Installations on Streetlight Poles ....................................................................... 14 
Chapter 5 
Installations on Utility Poles .............................................................................. 21 
Chapter 6 
Installations of Freestanding Poles .................................................................... 26 
Chapter 7 
Section 6409 Approvals ..................................................................................... 35 
Chapter 8 
Non-Conforming Wireless Facilities ................................................................... 36 
 
Appendix .............................................................................................................................. 37 
App A 
Wireless Communications Facilities Permit Application 
App B 
Wireless Communications Facilities Permit Application Checklist  
App C 
Standard Conditions of Approval for Wireless Communications Facilities  
 
 
208 of 445

--- page 209 ---
List of Figures 
 
Figure 4.1 - Unacceptable Installation on Streetlight Pole 
Figure 4.2 – Acceptable Design on Streetlight Replacement Pole 
Figure 4.3 – Acceptable Design on Streetlight Foundation Replacement (Existing Pole)  
Figure 5.1 - Unacceptable Installations on Utility Poles 
Figure 5.2 – Acceptable Designs on Utility Poles 
Figure 6.1 – Freestanding Wireless Facility Spacing Radius 
Figure 6.2 – Freestanding Wireless Facility in Amenity Zone 
Figure 6.3 – Freestanding Wireless Facility Sight-Line Requirements 
Figure 6.4 – Freestanding Wireless Facility Location between Property Lines 
Figure 6.5 – Freestanding Wireless Facility in Commercial Area 
 
List of Tables 
 
Table 4.1 – Design Standards For Installations on Streetlight Poles 
Table 4.2 – Procedures For Attachments to Streetlight Poles  
Table 5.1 – Design Standards For Installations on Utility Poles 
Table 5.2 – Procedures For Attachments to Utility Poles 
Table 6.1 – Design Standards For Installations of Freestanding Poles 
Table 6.2 – Procedures For Freestanding Poles 
Table 7.1 – Procedures For Section 6409 Approvals 
 
209 of 445

--- page 210 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The purpose of this document, the Design Standards and Application Requirements, is to establish requirements 
and design standards for installing wireless communication facilities in the City of San Mateo’s right-of-way 
(ROW).  The City of San Mateo seeks to permit wireless carriers to install wireless communications facilities, 
within the public right-of-way, in order to provide cellular coverage and capacity throughout the City, while 
ensuring facilities are well-maintained and do not 
significantly detract from City streetscapes. 
 
The City does not regulate the technologies 
wireless carriers use, but it does have certain 
powers to regulate the time, place, manner and 
aesthetics of wireless communications facilities.  
These design standards and requirements are 
intended to convey design preferences and 
application requirements.   
 
However, the City recommends and prefers that wireless carriers avoid pole locations where equipment would 
be in front of architecturally significant features, or in locations where they would have visual impacts of 
significance, such as residential neighborhoods, near schools and parks. 
 
Wireless providers should be made aware of the City’s preference for installation of wireless facilities on City 
owned streetlights, due to the improved aesthetic qualities of these facilities.  Wireless providers shall work 
with the City to establish a license agreement for the use of City owned streetlights. Secondly, the City 
recommends and prefers installation in areas not zoned residential, as well as near schools or parks. Residential 
areas should be considered as the last option. 
 
These requirements are meant to provide a general overview of the procedures and requirements for 
installation of wireless communications facilities on both City owned and utility poles located within the public 
right of way.  Additional conditions, information and/or procedures may be necessary based on the 
circumstances, project scope and the location being proposed by the applicant, or as deemed necessary by the 
City.   
 
San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10, “Wireless Communications Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way” was 
adopted by City Council in 2021 (hereinafter the “Code”).  The abbreviations, phrases, terms and words used in 
these Design Standards and Application Requirements will have the same meanings assigned to them in Chapter 
17.10 of the Code. Undefined phrases, terms or words in this document will have the meanings assigned to 
them in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as may be amended from time to time, and, if not defined therein, will have their 
ordinary meanings. If there are any discrepancies between the standards and requirements in this document 
and the Code, the Code shall prevail. 
 
The applicant or its successors shall comply fully with all conditions specified in this document, or as modified 
by the Director of Public Works.  Failure to comply with any condition shall constitute grounds for revocation of 
an applicable permit or license.  In the event that radio frequency (RF) emissions for the site exceed Federal 
Communications Commission (FCC) standards, the applicant will be required to immediately cease and desist 
The purpose of this document is to 
establish requirements for 
installing wireless facilities in the 
City of San Mateo’s right-of-way. 
1 BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE   
210 of 445

--- page 211 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 2 
 
 
 
operation of the facility until such time that the violation is corrected to the satisfaction of the Director of Public 
Works. 
 
Any carrier/provider authorized by the City to operate a specific wireless communications facility installation 
may assign the operation of the facility to another carrier licensed by the California Public Utilities Commission 
(CPUC) and FCC for that radio frequency provided that such transfer is made known to the City in advance of 
such operation, and all conditions of approval for the subject installation are carried out by the new 
carrier/provider. 
 
Below are requirements to aid wireless communications providers in planning facility locations and compiling 
the necessary information to obtain a Wireless Permit as provided in San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10 
“Wireless Communications Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way”. Wireless communications providers are also 
directed to review and comply with all other requirements as provided in Chapter 17.10,  that can be found on 
the City’s website. 
 
Three different types of wireless facility infrastructure installations are permitted within San Mateo rights of 
way. These types include: 
 
1. Attachments to streetlight poles 
2. Attachments to utility poles and utility lines 
3. Freestanding wireless facility infrastructure 
 
An overview of each type is included on the following pages. 
 
 
211 of 445

--- page 212 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 3 
 
 
 
2 SITE LOCATION, POLE SELECTION, & DESIGN 
STANDARDS 
 
To aid in minimizing visual and aesthetic impacts, all wireless communications facilities shall be designed, 
installed and located based on the following design preferences and standards below. In instances where a 
facility is proposed for installation at a location or in a manner that is not the highest preference as listed below, 
the applicant shall make a factual showing that all higher preferences are technically infeasible: 
 
Site Location 
 
1. The preferred locations shall be installed in the following order from most preferred to least preferred: 
 
1) Manufacturing districts; 
2) Transportation corridor or transit-orientated development districts; 
3) Executive districts; 
4) Central business districts; 
5) Commercial districts; 
6) Agricultural and open space districts; 
7) Shoreline districts; 
8) Residential districts with multi-family residential uses; 
9) Residential districts with single-family residential uses. 
Applications that involve lesser-preferred locations may be approved so long as the applicant demonstrates by 
clear and convincing evidence in writing that any more preferred locations or structures within 500 feet from 
the proposed site would be technically infeasible. 
 
Pole Selection 
 
1. Wireless facilities should be installed on existing standard streetlights or utility poles whenever 
technically feasible.  If the application proposes a wireless facility on a new pole or structure, the 
applicant must identify all existing potential poles or support structures within 500 feet from the 
proposed site along the subject right-of-way that is available and technically feasible. The applicant must 
also demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence in writing that any of these identified existing poles 
or support structures within 500 feet from the proposed site would be technically infeasible, and/or that 
the new support structure is the only technical feasible option to the exclusion of any alternative or 
reasonable  combination of alternatives.  
 
2. If the applicant demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence in writing that the identified existing 
poles or support structures are not technically feasible, then the applicant may propose a new free-
standing pole. New free-standing poles shall be located outside of driveways and intersection sight lines. 
New free-standing poles shall be located near property corners or side property lines, and not directly 
in front of residences and businesses. 
 
212 of 445

--- page 213 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 4 
 
 
 
3. Wireless facilities shall not be located on non-standard, decorative streetlights, wooden streetlights or 
traffic signals. 
 
4. All new wireless facilities require a new encroachment permit and comply with applicable standards and 
specifications required by the City. 
 
Design Standards 
 
1. Least Obtrusive.  Proposed installations should be the least obtrusive possible in compliance with the 
City’s Design Standards, with regard to appearance, size, and location.   If installations are available that 
are less obtrusive than those allowed by the City’s wireless communications facilities ordinance, 
applicants must use those installations unless the City determines that those installations are not 
feasible. 
 
2. Pole heights shall be minimized. The maximum height of any facilities mounted on an existing utility pole 
shall not exceed 4 feet, plus the minimum separation from supply lines required by CPUC General Order 
95 (GO 95), as may be amended or superseded. Legally required lightning arresters and beacons shall be 
included when calculating the height of facilities. For wireless facilities placed on any new freestanding 
poles, the pole height, inclusive of all equipment, shall not exceed 35 feet.   
 
3. Obstruction of Views.  New wireless communications facilities installations shall not obstruct views from 
habitable living areas (such as bedrooms, balconies, living rooms) to the maximum extent feasible. 
 
4. Protection of Trees.  Wireless communications facilities shall not damage existing trees.  If pruning is 
required for the installation, a separate Tree Permit must be obtained from Parks and Recreation. 
 
5. Interference with City Facilities and Other Uses.  Proposed installations shall not cause any interference 
with:  (i) the operation of any City facilities or services, including, but not limited to, signs, banners, 
lighting, communication, parking meters, traffic signs or signals, etc.; (ii) any fire hydrants or water 
valves; (iii) access to any doors, gates, sidewalk doors, or other ingress and egress points to any building 
appurtenant to the rights-of-way; or (iv) access to any fire escape. 
 
6. Accessory Equipment.  Accessory equipment shall be located entirely on the pole in a vertical 
arrangement to the maximum extent feasible.  Accessory equipment shall not collectively exceed 17 
cubic feet in overall volume.  Accessory equipment contains associated equipment for non-antenna gear. 
 
7. Ground Mounted Equipment.  Ground mounted equipment cabinets shall not be used, to the maximum 
extent possible.  Ground mounted equipment shall not collectively exceed 17 cubic feet in overall 
volume. If utilized, ground mounted equipment shall be placed in a location that does not obstruct 
pedestrian or vehicular traffic and shall be located in the least conspicuous location available within a 
reasonable distance from the pole. Ground mounted equipment should be installed within an existing 
or replacement street feature including, without limitation, bus stop shelters, trash bins, benches, kiosks, 
advertisement panels or other street furniture to conceal the equipment.   Ground mounted equipment 
contains associated equipment for non-antenna gear. 
 
213 of 445

--- page 214 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 5 
 
 
 
8. Cables, Wires and Connectors.  All cables, wires and other connectors shall be routed through conduits 
within a pole whenever possible, and all external conduits, conduit attachments, cables, wires and other 
connectors must be concealed from public view to the maximum extent feasible. 
 
9. Lights.  Wireless facilities may not include exterior lights other than as may be required under Federal 
Aviation Administration (FAA), Federal Communications Commission (FCC), other applicable 
governmental regulations or applicable pole owner policies related to public or worker safety. All 
exterior lights permitted or required to be installed must be installed in locations and within enclosures 
that mitigates illumination impacts on other properties to the maximum extent feasible. Any lights 
associated with the electronic equipment shall be appropriately shielded from public view. Flashing 
lights shall be installed. 
 
10. Signage and Stickers. All wireless facilities must include signage that accurately identifies the equipment 
owner/operator, the owner/operator’s site name or identification number and a toll-free number to the 
owner/operator’s network operations center. Wireless facilities may not bear any other signage or 
advertisements unless expressly approved by the City, required by law or recommended under existing 
and future FCC or other United States governmental agencies for compliance with RF emissions 
regulations. RF notification signs shall be placed where appropriate, and not at pedestrian eye level, 
unless required by the FCC or other regulatory agencies.  Large repetitive warning stickers shall not be 
installed. 
 
11. Smart Meters.  Wireless facility designers shall use PG&E Smart Meters or flat-rate billing with no electric 
meter, if feasible.  
 
12. Noise.  Wireless facilities and all accessory equipment and transmission equipment must comply with all 
City noise control standards and regulations and shall not exceed, either individually or cumulatively, the 
applicable ambient noise level in the subject zoning district. The applicant shall incorporate appropriate 
noise-baffling materials and/or strategies whenever necessary to avoid any ambient noise from 
equipment reasonably likely to exceed the applicable level.  Fans shall not be utilized to the maximum 
extent possible. 
 
13. Antenna Location.  To the maximum extent technically feasible, antennas shall be placed at the top of 
the pole. 
 
14. Shrouding. All antennas and associated cables, jumpers, wires, mounts, masts, brackets and other 
connectors and hardware shall be installed within a single shroud or radome to the maximum extent 
technically feasible. For wireless facilities on utility poles, all antennas shall be shrouded, and located at 
the top of the pole or strand-mounted, to the maximum extent technically feasible. For pole-top 
antennas, the shroud shall not exceed 2.5 times the median pole diameter and must taper down to pole. 
For side-arm antennas, the shroud shall cover the cross arm and any cables, jumpers, wires or other 
connectors between the vertical riser and the antenna. 
 
15. Antenna Volume. Each individual antenna associated with a single wireless facility shall not exceed 3 
cubic feet. The cumulative volume for all antennas on a single wireless facility shall not exceed: (A) 3 
cubic feet in residential areas; or (B) 6 cubic feet in nonresidential areas. 
 
214 of 445

--- page 215 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 6 
 
 
 
16. Horizontal Projection. Side-mounted antennas, where permitted, shall not project: (A) more than 2 feet 
from the support structure; (B) over any roadway for vehicular travel; or (C) over any abutting private 
property. If applicable laws require a side-mounted antenna to project more than 2 feet from the support 
structure, the projection shall be no greater than required for compliance with such laws. Pole-mounted 
antennas and accessory equipment should be installed in a manner that minimizes horizontal 
projections, which includes, without limitation, installing equipment within the pole or as flush to the 
pole as possible. 
 
17. Landscaping. All wireless facilities must include landscape features and a landscape maintenance plan 
when proposed to be placed in a landscaped area. The City may require additional landscape features to 
screen the wireless facility from public view, avoid or mitigate potential adverse impacts on adjacent 
properties or otherwise enhance the concealment. All plants proposed or required must be native 
and/or drought resistant. 
 
18. Site Security Measures. Wireless facilities may incorporate reasonable and appropriate site security 
measures, such as locks and anti-climbing devices, to prevent unauthorized access, theft or vandalism. 
All wireless facilities shall be constructed from graffiti-resistant materials. The City may require 
additional concealment elements as the approval authority finds necessary to blend the security 
measures and other improvements into the natural and/or built environment. The City shall not approve 
barbed wire, razor ribbon, electrified fences or any similar security measures. 
 
19. Backup Power Sources. Permanent backup power sources within the public rights-of-way shall not be 
utilized. 
 
20. Utilities. All cables and connectors for telephone, primary electric and other similar utilities shall be 
routed underground to the extent feasible in conduits large enough to accommodate future collocated 
wireless facilities. To the extent feasible, undergrounded cables and wires must transition directly into 
the pole base without any external doghouse. Meters, panels, disconnect switches and other associated 
improvements must be placed in inconspicuous locations to the extent possible and technically feasible. 
The City shall not approve new overhead utility lines or service drops merely because compliance with 
the undergrounding requirements would increase the project cost. In areas with existing overhead lines, 
new communication lines shall be “overlashed” with existing communication lines to the extent 
technically feasible. Microwave or other wireless backhaul is discouraged when it would involve a 
separate and unconcealed antenna. 
 
21. Public Safety. No wireless facilities shall interfere with access to a fire hydrant, fire station, fire escape, 
water valve, underground vault, valve housing structure or any other public health or safety facility. No 
wireless facility installation, use or maintenance shall endanger or shall be reasonably likely to endanger 
the safety of persons or property. No wireless acilities shall unreasonably interfere with or unreasonably 
impede the flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic including any legally parked or stopped vehicle, the 
ingress into or egress from any residence or place of business, the use of poles, posts, traffic signs or 
signals, hydrants, mailboxes, permitted sidewalk dining, permitted street furniture or other objects 
permitted at or near the location where the wireless facilities are located. 
 
22. Replacement Pole Location. All replacement poles must: (1) be located as close to the removed pole as 
possible; (2) be aligned with the other existing poles along the public rights-of-way; and (3) be compliant 
with all applicable standards and specifications identified by or required by the City. 
215 of 445

--- page 216 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 7 
 
 
 
 
23. Compliance with Applicable Laws. All wireless facilities shall be installed and maintained in compliance 
with all applicable laws, regulations, codes or other rules, which include, at a minimum, the Uniform 
Building, National Electrical Code, and all FCC rules for human exposure to RF emissions. All wireless 
facilities and their locations shall comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act.  
 
 
 
216 of 445

--- page 217 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 8 
 
 
 
3 APPLICATION PROCESS AND REQUIREMENTS
 
 
Voluntary Informational Meeting with City Staff 
Prior to submittal of an application, applicants are encouraged to meet with City staff in order to present the 
scope, location, and types of poles utilized.  Applicants can ask questions regarding the permit application and 
checklist requirements.   This voluntary informational meeting with City staff does not cause the FCC Shot Clock 
to begin.   
 
Voluntary Informational Neighborhood Meeting  
After meeting with City staff and prior to submittal of an application, applicants are encouraged to hold a 
community meeting for a proposed wireless facility.  This voluntary neighborhood meeting does not cause the 
FCC Shot clock to begin. 
 
The purpose of the neighborhood meeting is for the applicant to explain the proposal to the surrounding 
property owners and residents, and to receive their input. This meeting should accomplish three main goals:  
 
 Establishment of dialogue between the applicant and the surrounding property owners and residents.  
 Allow for project modification early in the process based on feedback. 
 Avoid further delays due to projects that may be inconsistent with the City’s standards.  
 
As the applicant, you host and conduct the meeting; Public Works staff may be present as a resource only.  
 
Public Works staff will work with the applicant to select a date, time, and location for the neighborhood meeting 
based on the following requirements: 
 
 Meetings should be held on Monday through Thursdays starting no earlier than 6:30 p.m. 
 Meetings should be held at City Hall or conducted virtually. 
 Meetings should be 1 to 2 hours maximum. 
 After 15 minutes, if there are no attendees, the meeting may be ended. 
 
Meetings cannot be held on the following dates: 
 
 Evenings of City Council or any City Commission meetings. Please check the City’s website at 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?nid=60 
and 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?nid=192 
for 
the 
City 
Council, 
Sustainability 
and 
Infrastructure Commission, Parks and Recreation Commission, Community Relations Commission, and 
Planning Commission meeting dates. 
 Legal holidays, common religious holidays or during the week of Thanksgiving and December 15th-
January 1st. 
 
Public Works staff will work with the applicant to coordinate a public notice for the community meeting.  
217 of 445

--- page 218 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 9 
 
 
 
The applicant is encouraged to bring presentation-sized graphics of the conceptual project plans, including an 
existing and proposed site plan and exterior elevations of all sides of the proposed facility, and a PowerPoint 
presentation. A mock-up of the proposed installation is highly recommended. The applicant is encouraged to 
record the meeting to aid in developing the meeting summary.  If recorded, applicant must post a notice at the 
meeting site that indicates the meeting is being recorded.  
 
All attendees shall sign in to ensure a complete record of attendees, including City staff and all members of the 
project team. Attendees shall be asked to provide their email and/or mailing address for future notices. A 
member of the applicant’s team must be dedicated to taking detailed notes from the meeting and prepare a 
Meeting Summary.  
 
The meeting agenda generally consists of the following: 
 
 The applicant will typically open the meeting by describing the purpose of the meeting and introducing 
the team members. Public Works staff will remain throughout the meeting to answer any questions 
regarding wireless facility standards and the application process. 
 The applicant will manage the remainder of the meeting. The City recommends that the applicant’s 
PowerPoint presentation on the proposed project should include a description of the purpose of the 
installation, the way the design has responded to various aesthetic issues and important design features. 
The applicant’s presentation team shall include the following staff:  project manager, RF engineer, area 
manager, technical staff, and dedicated staff for recording meeting notes. 
 After the formal presentation, the applicant may open the discussion to attendees, being available to 
answer questions or take comments.   If questions are raised related to the application process or City 
regulations that are more appropriately answered by City staff, he or she will answer those questions. 
 Once discussion has finished, the applicant will typically close the meeting by describing the next steps 
in the process. No official action may be taken by the City at any community meeting. 
 
The City requests that the applicant submit to the City a written summary of the meeting within seven (7) 
calendar days of the meeting. The Meeting Summary should include a list of attendees, the major issues raised, 
any questions and answers discussed during the meeting. Please send the draft meeting summary and the sign-
in sheet to Public Works staff who attended the meeting for final editing. The applicant is encouraged to email 
the meeting summary to all the meeting attendees who provided an email address.  
 
Application Submittal 
The applicant shall submit a complete, duly executed permit application using the Wireless Communications 
Facilities Permit Application Form attached hereto in Appendix A, which may be updated from time to time by 
the Director. The applicant shall comply with any additional instructions or requirements provided on the 
application form. 
 
The application shall include all required materials as listed in the Wireless Communications Facilities Permit 
Application Checklist attached hereto in Appendix B. The applicant shall also comply with the Application 
Requirements-Required Materials provided in Appendix B. 
 
218 of 445

--- page 219 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 10 
 
 
 
All applications, along with any required materials and deposits, must be submitted to the City at a pre-
scheduled appointment with City Staff. The City Staff shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with 
an appointment within five (5) working days after the City Staff receives a written request.  
 
Applications Deemed Withdrawn  
To promote efficient review and timely decisions, an application will be automatically deemed withdrawn by 
the applicant when the applicant fails to tender a substantive response to City Staff within 90 calendar days 
after City Staff deems the application incomplete in a subsequent written notice to the applicant after a prior 
written notice of incompleteness has been provided. The City Staff may, in its discretion, grant a written 
extension for up to an additional 30 calendar days when the applicant submits a written request prior to the 
90th day that shows good cause to grant the extension. Delays due to circumstances outside the applicant's 
reasonable control will be considered good cause to grant the extension. 
 
Notice Requirements For Wireless Permits (Section 6409 Applications are exempt from noticing 
requirements)[SMMC 17.10.050(d)] 
Within five (5) calendar days of submitting a wireless permit application, the applicant shall provide notice by 
first class US mail to all property owners and residents within a 500’ radius of the proposed project site.  In 
addition, the notice shall be posted in a minimum of three (3) locations near the project site.  The notices at a 
minimum shall contain the following: 
 
1. A general description of the project, improvements and other equipment to be constructed or installed, 
including the proposed site location, photo simulations, samples or renderings depicting the finished 
installation in context with the surrounding natural and built environment. 
2. Identify when construction, installation, excavation or other work would begin and end. 
3. The applicant’s name and contact information as provided to the City on the application. 
4. The contact name and information for the applicant’s representative. 
5. A statement that interested parties may submit comments regarding the project within five (5) calendar 
days of the notice, to the applicant, and instructions on how to do so. 
6. Include 
a 
link 
to 
the 
City’s 
Small 
Cell 
Infrastructure 
webpage:   
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure.  Include language that, “Members of 
the public interested in receiving information  on application decisions should sign up for notifications 
on the Small Cell Infrastructure webpage.” 
7. A statement that interested parties may appeal any decision within five (5) calendar days of the Notice 
of Decision, and instructions on how to do so. 
8. A statement that, “The FCC does not allow appeals when based solely on the environmental effects from 
radio frequency emissions that are compliant with applicable FCC regulations and guidelines.” 
 
Notices shall be in English and other languages as deemed appropriate by the City. 
 
Applicant shall provide notification documentation to the City prior to approval of any permit.  Such 
documentation includes: 
 
1. A copy of the notice.  Notice shall be approved by City staff prior to mailing. 
2. Proof of notification such as an affidavit attesting that the notice was mailed to all property owners and 
residents within 500’ of the project site.  Proof shall include the method of delivery and a list of 
recipients. 
219 of 445

--- page 220 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 11 
 
 
 
3. A log of concerns, comments, questions, and/or actual responses from interested parties with 
information on the name of the persons and dates of the responses. 
Standard Conditions of Approval [SMMC 17.10.080] 
All wireless facilities, whether approved by the Director or deemed approved or deemed granted by law shall 
be automatically subject to all standard conditions of approval as provided in the Standard Conditions of 
Approval for Wireless Communications Facilities, attached hereto in Appendix C. 
 
Decision Notices to the Applicant [SMMC 17.10.070(e)] 
City staff shall provide written notice to the applicant within five (5) calendar days after acting on the application.  
If the application is denied, the notice shall include the reasons for the decision and instructions for filing an 
appeal. 
 
Notice of Decision to the Public [SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
City staff shall post notice of the decision by the City with the appeal process on the Small Cell Infrastructure 
webpage 
on 
the 
same 
date 
as 
when 
the 
decision 
notice 
is 
sent 
to 
the 
applicant.  
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure 
 
The online posted notice shall include the following: 
1. Date of the posting and date by which appeals must be filed. 
2. Location of the site. 
3. Link to application materials. 
4. Directions for filing an appeal. 
5. Appellant’s name and contact information. 
 
Members of the public, including property owners and residents within 500’ of the project site, interested in 
receiving information on decisions on applications should sign up for notifications on the Small Cell 
Infrastructure webpage.  Notices to the property owners and residents within 500’ of the project site and others 
who have requested the notice of decision from the city shall be sent expeditiously and within one business day 
from the date of the decision on the application. Notice shall be sent electronically to the extent practicable. 
 
Peer and Independent Consultant Review [SMMC 17.10.060] 
The Director may, in its discretion, select and retain an independent consultant with specialized training, 
experience and/or expertise in telecommunications issues satisfactory to the Director in connection with any 
permit application.  
 
The Director may request an independent consultant review on any issue that involves specialized or expert 
knowledge in connection with wireless facilities deployment or permit applications for wireless facilities, which 
include without limitation: (a) permit application completeness and/or accuracy; (b) pre-construction planned 
compliance with applicable regulations for human exposure to RF emissions; (c) post-construction actual 
compliance with applicable regulations for human exposure to RF emissions; (d) whether and to what extent 
any technically feasible and/or potentially available alternative sites or concealment techniques may exist; (e) 
the applicability, reliability and/or sufficiency of any information, analyses or methodologies used by the 
applicant to reach any conclusions about any issue with the City's discretion to review; and (f) any other issue 
identified by the Director that requires expert or specialized knowledge.  The Director may request that the 
independent consultant prepare written reports, testify at public meetings, hearings and/or appeals and attend 
meetings with City staff and/or the applicant. 
 
220 of 445

--- page 221 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 12 
 
 
 
In the event that the Director elects to retain an independent consultant in connection with any permit 
application, the applicant shall be responsible for the reasonable costs in connection with the services provided. 
Before the independent consultant may perform any services, the applicant shall tender to the City a deposit in 
an amount equal to the estimated cost for the services to be provided, as determined by the Director. The 
Director may request additional deposits as reasonably necessary to ensure sufficient funds are available to 
cover the reasonable costs in connection with the independent consultant's services. In the event that the 
deposit exceeds the total costs for consultant's services, the Director shall promptly return any unused funds to 
the applicant after the wireless facility has been installed and passes a final inspection by the appropriate City 
official or his or her designee. In the event that the reasonable costs for the independent consultant's services 
exceed the deposit, the Director shall invoice the applicant for the balance. The City shall not issue any permit 
to any applicant with any unpaid deposit requests or invoices. 
 
Limited Exceptions for Personal Wireless Service Facilities [SMMC 17.10.070(d)] 
In the event that an applicant claims that strict compliance with SMMC Chapter 17.10 and these Design 
Standards and Application Requirements would effectively prohibit the applicant's ability to provide personal 
wireless services, the Director may grant a limited exception from such requirements in accordance with the 
following: 
 
1.  Required Findings. The Director shall not grant any limited exception unless the applicant shows that:  
 
(A)  the proposed wireless facility qualifies as a "personal wireless service facility" as defined in 47 U.S.C. 
§ 332(c)(7)(C)(ii), as may be amended or superseded; and 
(B)  the applicant has provided the Director with a reasonable and clearly defined technical service 
objective to be achieved by the proposed wireless facility; and 
(C)  the applicant has provided the Director with a written statement that contains a detailed and fact-
specific explanation as to why the proposed wireless facility cannot be deployed in compliance with 
the applicable provisions in SMMC Chapter 17.10 and these Design Standards and Application 
Requirements; and 
(D)  the applicant has provided the Director with a meaningful comparative analysis with the factual 
reasons why all alternative locations and/or designs identified in the administrative record (whether 
suggested by the applicant, the City, public comments or any other source) are not technically 
feasible or potentially available to reasonably achieve the applicant's reasonable and clearly defined 
technical service objective to be achieved by the proposed wireless facility; and 
(E)  the applicant has demonstrated to the Director that the proposed location and design is the least 
non-compliant configuration that will reasonably achieve the applicant's reasonable and clearly 
defined technical service objective to be achieved by the proposed wireless facility, which includes 
without limitation a meaningful comparative analysis into multiple smaller or less intrusive wireless 
facilities dispersed throughout the intended service area.  
 
2.  Limitations on Exceptions. Any limited exception shall be narrowly tailored to ensure that any deviations 
from the requirements in SMMC Chapter 17.10 or the Design Standards and Application Requirements 
are no greater than necessary to avoid an effective prohibition of the applicant's personal wireless 
services. Limited exceptions shall be based on the facts and circumstances of the applicant, its 
demonstrated technical service objectives at the time the exception is granted and the proposed 
wireless facility and shall not be deemed to establish any precedent for similar deviations for the same 
or any other applicant, location or wireless facility. 
 
221 of 445

--- page 222 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 13 
 
 
 
Appeals [SMMC 17.10.070(g)] (Section 6409 Applications are exempt from appeals by the public) 
The applicant or property owners/residents within a 500 foot radius of the proposed project site who received 
notice of an application, as provided in the Code, may appeal any decision to approve or deny an application for 
a Wireless Permit.  The appeals shall be filed with the Secretary of the Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission within five (5) calendar days of the City’s Notice of Conditional Approval.  Appeals received after 
the five (5) calendar days will not be considered.  The appeal hearing shall be placed on the agenda for the next 
regular or special meeting of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, or otherwise within a time frame 
needed to comply with all applicable state or federal laws. Written notice of the hearing date shall be provided 
to the appellant as soon as practicable and at least 3 calendar days prior to the hearing. 
 
An appeal shall include the following at a minimum in order to be considered: 
 
1. Location of the site being appealed. 
2. A written statement that contains a detailed and fact-specific description of the reason for the appeal 
with reference to specific Code or Design Standard violations. 
3. Appellant’s name and contact information. 
 
Important Note:  The FCC does not allow appeals if it is based on environmental effects from RF emissions 
that comply with all applicable FCC regulations. 
 
Appeals from an approval of an application will not be permitted to the extent that the appeal is based on 
environmental effects from RF emissions that comply with all applicable FCC regulations.  The Sustainability 
and Infrastructure Commission shall review the appeal de novo, with the appellant having the burden of proof 
to establish the basis for seeking a reversal of the Director’s decision, and issue a decision at the hearing. The 
decision of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission shall be final and not subject to any further 
administrative appeals.  The decision shall be posted on the City’s webpage on the same date as the decision is 
made. 
 
Revocation of Permits or Other Authorized Use 
Any wireless permit, City pole license, or other authorized use of the public right-of-way granted under SMMC 
Chapter 17.10 may be revoked or modified for cause in accordance with the following: 
 
1. Revocation proceedings may be initiated by the Director. 
 
2. Action. The Director shall act on the proposed revocation after the time for any appeal has lapsed. 
 
3. Required Findings.  The Director may revoke or modify the permit, City pole license, or right to use, if it 
makes any of the following findings: 
 
(A) 
The permittee obtained the approval by means of fraud or misrepresentation of a material fact; 
(B) 
The permittee substantially expanded or altered the use or structure beyond what is set forth in 
the permit or substantially changed the installation’s character; 
(C) 
The use in question has ceased to exist or has been suspended or abandoned; 
(D) 
Failure to comply with any condition of a permit issued; 
(E) 
Failure to comply with SMMC Chapter 17.10 and/or the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements; 
222 of 445

--- page 223 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 14 
 
 
 
(F) 
A substantive change of law affecting a utility’s authority to occupy or use the public right-of-way 
or the City’s ability to impose regulations relating to such occupation or use; 
(G) 
A facility’s interference with a City project; 
(H) 
A facility’s interference with vehicular or pedestrian use of the public right-of-way;  
Failure to make a safe and timely restoration of the public right-of-way; or 
(I) 
For permits approved for a wireless facility on a City pole, termination of the applicable master 
license agreement or revocation of a City-owned pole license. 
 
4. Notice of Action. The Director shall issue a written determination of revocation and mail the 
determination to the permittee within ten (10) calendar days of such determination. The decision shall 
be posted on the City’s webpage on the same date as the decision is made.  
 
223 of 445

--- page 224 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 15 
 
 
 
4 INSTALLATIONS  ON STREETLIGHT POLES 
The following are design requirements for installations on streetlight poles.  
 
 
Table 4.1 – Design Standards For Installations on Streetlight Poles 
Luminaire 
• Per San Mateo standards or as designated by the Director of Public Works. 
Electric Service/Metering 
• Per PG&E’s requirements. Smart Meters or flat-rate billing, if available. 
• All new electrical conduit shall be separate and enclosed in a braided sleeve.  
• Applicant shall survey and document all loads connected to circuit involved, including any 
non-streetlight load.  
• Circuit tracing shall be completed using proper circuit tracing equipment.  
• Applicant shall conduct load analysis to evaluate loading level and voltage drop on the entire 
circuit the meter is receiving power from. Maximum voltage drop allowed for the entire 
streetlighting circuit is 3% (cumulative). 
• Calculations shall be completed by an electrical engineer.  
• Reserve at minimum 40% of circuit load capacity (not breaker rating) for City’s use.   
• Replacement of light fixtures with LEDs is allowed to free up capacity in the circuit.  LED 
fixtures shall meet City standards or as designated by the Director of Public Works. 
• Conductors shall be spliced at base of pole in pull box. If there is no existing pull box, 
installation of a new pull box will be required. 
• Grounding rod shall be located in the pull box. 
 
Communication/Backhaul 
Service 
• Applicant shall secure their own communication/backhaul arrangements independent of City 
facilities.  
• A utility encroachment permit for fiber optic installations will be required. 
 
Shroud 
• Antenna and Smart Meter shall be within a shroud, to the maximum extent technically 
feasible. 
Hand Holes 
• A hand hole shall be provided at the top of the pole to maintain fiber and electrical service 
for streetlights and future attachments.  
Color 
• Equipment shall be painted, treated or finished to match existing streetlight aesthetics. 
• Paint shall be powder coated over zinc paint. 
• Equipment cabinets shall be galvanized. 
 
Structural Analysis 
• Structural analysis shall be prepared and stamped by a professionally licensed structural 
engineer.  Certification that the pole foundation and attachments meet or exceed design 
parameters shall be provided to the Public Works Department. The analysis shall comply with 
current building code standards.  The wireless facility shall be designed for a risk category IV. 
• All structural components of the pole, standard, base, equipment cabinet, couplers, anchor 
bolts, luminaires, antenna, shroud, and other attachments to be used shall be designed in 
accordance with AASHTO’s Standard Specifications for Structural Supports for Highway Signs, 
Luminaires, and Traffic Signals, TIA-222 rev G and ASCE 7-16 with IBC 2018 (or latest 
standard), plus amendment for other local conditions.  
• Any pole not meeting these requirements may not be used for a wireless facility installation 
or must be replaced. 
• Certification is required for replacement poles. 
 
Antenna 
• Antennas shall be shrouded and shall be located at the top of the pole to the maximum extent 
technically feasible. 
224 of 445

--- page 225 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 16 
 
 
 
• Individual antennas shall not exceed 3 cubic feet; cumulative volume for all antennas shall 
not exceed 3 cubic feet in residential areas or 6 cubic feet in nonresidential areas.  
 
Stickers/Signs 
• Any on-pole cabinet and ground mounted utility box should be labeled with a (1) RF warning 
sticker, background to match pole color, no larger than 4 x 6 inches. Facing to the street near 
the elevation of the antennae, (2) 4-inch by 6-inch (maximum) plate with the provider’s name, 
location identifying information, and 24-hour emergency telephone number, and (3) No 
advertising, logos or decals. 
• Existing traffic signs may be relocated to screen accessory equipment. CA MUTCD 
requirements for sign mounting height shall be met.  Equipment screened by a sign must not 
change the silhouette of the sign as viewed by motorists. 
• Pole number labels shall be installed if missing. 
Cables/Wiring 
• All cables shall be located inside the pole to the maximum extent technically feasible, 
labeled for identification and enclosed in a separate braided sleeve.  
• External conduit attachment to the pole is not permitted. 
• No wires or cables shall be visible on the exterior of the pole.  
• Splicing is permitted in the pull box at base of pole. Splicing of small wiring to streetlight wiring 
in the pole is not permitted. If the pull box is not present, a new pull box will need to be 
installed, and conduit proved and rewired.  
• Any existing conduit that is not usable shall  be replaced with new conduit.  
• Foundations without conduit will need to have new conduit added to the existing foundation, 
or a new foundation installed in accordance with these Design Standards. 
• Fuses shall be located behind the hand hole or in the pull box. 
• Existing wires in pole must be removed before any drilling or welding takes place on pole. 
Hardware 
• All mounting hardware shall be compatible with mounting surface and weather resistant.  
Disconnect Switch 
• Bottom of disconnect switch shall be mounted at a minimum of 7 feet above grade or per 
PG&E’s standards. 
Equipment Cabinet 
• Maximum dimension shall be 17 CF. 
• If required, fans shall not emit noise higher than City standards. 
• Passive louvers and/or other passive ventilation systems shall be primary means of 
temperature control. 
• Cabinets shall be located such that it meets the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and 
does not obstruct, impede, or hinder the usual pedestrian or vehicular travel way. 
• Equipment cabinet contains associated equipment for non-antenna gear. 
 
 
225 of 445

--- page 226 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 17 
 
 
 
Figure 4.1 - Unacceptable Installation on a Streetlight 
 
  
 
Antenna must include a smooth 
transition between pole and antenna 
if feasible 
Conduit, mounting bracket, and 
other hardware must be hidden or in 
a shroud 
All 
conduit, 
wires 
and 
other 
hardware shall be located internally 
within pole 
226 of 445

--- page 227 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 18 
 
 
 
Figure 4.2 – Acceptable Design on a Streetlight Replacement  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Antennas are located at the top of 
the pole and have smooth transition 
between pole and antennas  
All 
conduit, 
wires 
and 
other 
hardware are  located internally 
within pole 
Accessory equipment is located 
entirely in a cabinet at base of pole 
227 of 445

--- page 228 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 19 
 
 
 
Figure 4.3 – Acceptable Design on a Streetlight Foundation Replacement (Existing Pole)  
 
 
 
 
Antennas are located at the top of 
the pole 
Accessary equipment is hidden by 
existing signage 
228 of 445

--- page 229 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 20 
 
 
 
Table 4.2 – Procedures For Attachments to Streetlight Poles [SMMC] 
Pre-Application 
1. Master License Agreement.  Applicant executes a license agreement with the City for any City-owned poles 
in the public right-of-way.  To start the process for preparation of a license agreement, applicant shall pay 
required fee per current Comprehensive Fee Schedule. 
2. Voluntary Informational Meeting with City Staff.  Applicant may request a voluntary pre-submittal 
informational meeting with City staff to review potential locations and streamline the review process. This 
voluntary informational meeting with City Staff does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
3. Voluntary Informational Neighborhood Meeting.  Applicant is encouraged to hold a voluntary informational 
neighborhood meeting at City Hall or via Zoom to discuss the proposed project with residents and property 
owners within 500’ of the project location in order to receive feedback from interested parties. This 
voluntary neighborhood informational meeting does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
 
Application 
4. Submittal Appointment.  Applicant submits application, checklist, required materials, and deposit at a pre-
scheduled appointment. City Staff shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with an 
appointment within five (5) working days after the City Staff receives a written request.  
• 
Shot Clocks Starts 
5. Notice Requirements.  Within five (5) calendar days of application submittal, applicant provides notice  by 
first class United States mail to all property owners and residents within a 500’ radius of proposed project 
and posts in at least three locations near the project site. 
6. City Review.  The City shall have ten (10) calendar days from the submission of the application to determine 
whether the application is incomplete.  If the City deems that the application is complete, it shall review 
the application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
7. Power Walks.  Applicant conducts power walks with City staff to determine point of electrical service 
connection.  This shall be shown on the plans when applicant resubmits. 
8. Applicant Resubmittal.  If the City deems that the application is incomplete, the applicant responds to 
corrections and resubmits materials. 
• 
Shot Clocks Restarts 
9. Subsequent City Reviews and Resubmittals.  City staff reviews and shall have ten (10) calendar days from 
the re-submission to determine whether the application is incomplete. If the City deems that the 
application is complete, it shall review the application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
10. Conditional Approval.  City staff may approve the application when all findings are met as provided in the 
Code.  If findings are not met, application will be denied and applicant will need to resubmit.  
11. Notice of Decision.  A decision notice is sent to the applicant within five (5) calendar days after the City acts 
on an application. City staff shall post the Notice of Decision with appeal process on the Small Cell 
Infrastructure 
webpage 
when 
the 
decision 
notice 
is 
sent 
to 
the 
applicant.  
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure 
[SMMC 17.10.070(e)] [SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
12. Limited Exceptions.  If the applicant claims that strict compliance with the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements would effectively prohibit the applicant's ability to provide personal wireless services, City 
staff may grant a limited exception if required findings are met. 
Appeals 
13. Appeals.  The applicant or any person who received notice of an application as provided in the Code may 
appeal any decision to approve or deny a Wireless Permit.  Appeals must be filed with the Sustainability & 
Infrastructure Commission (S&IC) Secretary within five (5) calendar days of the Notice of Conditional 
Approval.  If no appeals, project may be approved. If an appeal is received, staff will schedule a public 
hearing with S&IC to consider and act on the application in accordance with the required findings. If the 
appeal is denied by the S&IC, the project may be approved. If the appeal is approved by the S&IC, the 
project is denied and the applicant will need to resubmit. 
[SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
Building Permit 
14. Building Permit.  Applicant applies for a Building Permit with the Building Division for PG&E release.  A 
separate fee shall apply. 
Encroachment 
Permit 
15. Encroachment Permit.  Applicant applies for an Encroachment Permit with the Public Works Department.  
A separate fee shall apply as provided in the City’s Fee Schedule.  Encroachment permit shall include traffic 
control plans and insurance.  Prior to construction, applicant shall contact Public Works for an inspection. 
16. Performance Bond.  Applicant shall provide Public Works with a Performance Bond in compliance with COA 
A.13 and B.15. 
229 of 445

--- page 230 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 21 
 
 
 
Post 
Application 
17. Certification.  Applicant shall provide Public Works Post-Installation Certification in compliance with COA 
A.3 and B.5. 
18. Contact Information.  Applicant shall provide up-to-date contact information to Public Works in compliance 
with COA A.11 and B.13. 
230 of 445

--- page 231 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 22 
 
 
 
5 INSTALLATIONS ON UTILITY POLES 
The following are general specifications for installations on utility poles.  
 
Table 5.1 – Design Standards For Installations on Utility Poles 
 
 
Electric Service/Metering 
• Per PG&E’s requirements. Smart Meters or flat-rate billing, if available. 
• All new electrical conduit shall be separate.  
 
Communication/Backhaul 
Service 
• Applicant shall secure their own communication/backhaul arrangements 
independent of City facilities.  
• A utility encroachment permit for fiber optic installations will be required. 
 
Shroud 
• Antenna and Smart Meter shall be within a shroud, to the maximum extent 
technically feasible. 
 
Color 
• Equipment shall be painted, treated or finished to match existing utility pole 
aesthetics. 
• All electrical equipment, boxes, and other appurtenances shall have an 
appropriate National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) rating for 
outdoor uses and provide adequate protection.  
• Paint shall be powder coated over zinc paint in accordance with NEMA standards. 
• Equipment cabinets shall be galvanized in accordance with NEMA standards. 
 
Pole Selection Site Analysis 
• If the applicant proposes a wireless facility on a new utility pole, the applicant must 
first identify all existing potential poles or support structures within 500 feet from 
the proposed site along the subject right-of-way that is available and technically 
feasible. The applicant must also demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence in 
writing that any of these identified existing poles or support structures within 500 
feet from the proposed site would be technically infeasible. 
 
Antenna 
• Antennas shall be shrouded, and located at the top of the pole or strand-
mounted, to the maximum extent technically feasible. 
• Individual antennas shall not exceed 3 cubic feet; cumulative volume for all 
antennas shall not exceed 3 cubic feet in residential areas or 6 cubic feet in 
nonresidential areas. 
 
Stickers/Signs 
• Any on-pole cabinet and ground mounted utility box should be labeled with (1)  a 
RF warning sticker, background to match pole color, no larger than 4 x 6 inches. 
Facing to the street near the elevation of the antennae, (2) 4-inch by 6-inch 
(maximum) plate with the provider’s name, location identifying information, and 
24-hour emergency telephone number, and (3) No advertising, logos or decals. 
• Existing traffic signs may be relocated to screen accessory equipment. CA MUTCD 
requirements for sign mounting height shall be met.  Equipment screened by a 
sign must not change the silhouette of the sign as viewed by motorists. 
• Pole number labels shall be installed if missing. 
 
Cables/Wiring 
• To the maximum extent technically feasible, all cables shall be located inside a 
conduit painted to match the pole.  
231 of 445

--- page 232 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 23 
 
 
 
• No wires or cables shall be visible on the exterior of the conduit to the maximum 
extent technically feasible. 
 
Hardware 
• All mounting hardware shall be compatible with mounting surface and weather 
resistant.  
 
Disconnect Switch 
• Bottom of disconnect switch shall be mounted at a minimum of 7 feet above grade 
or per PG&E’s standards. 
 
Equipment Cabinet 
• Maximum dimension shall be 17 CF. 
• If required, fans shall not emit noise higher than City standards. 
• Passive louvers and/or other passive ventilation systems shall be primary means 
of temperature control. 
• Cabinets shall be located such that it meets the Americans with Disabilities Act of 
1990 and does not obstruct, impede, or hinder the usual pedestrian or vehicular 
travel way. 
• Equipment cabinets contains associated equipment for non-antenna gear. 
 
Safety Zones 
• A safety zone is required per the latest CPUC GO 95 
 
Pole Owner 
• Applicant shall provide written authorization from the pole owner. 
• Authorization shall indicate that the pole is structurally sound for additional loads. 
 
 
 
232 of 445

--- page 233 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 24 
 
 
 
Figure 5.1 - Unacceptable Installations on Utility Poles 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accessary equipment is not painted 
to match the wood pole 
Wires are not in a conduit 
Abrupt 
transition 
from 
pole 
to 
antenna 
233 of 445

--- page 234 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 25 
 
 
 
Figure 5.2 – Acceptable Designs on Utility Poles 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strand mounted wireless facility 
Wiring is located in a conduit 
Accessary equipment is painted to 
match the wood pole and shrouded 
234 of 445

--- page 235 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 26 
 
 
 
Table 5.2 – Procedures For Attachments to Utility Poles [SMMC] 
Pre-Application 
1. Voluntary Informational Meeting with City Staff.  Applicant may request a voluntary pre-submittal 
informational meeting with City staff to review potential locations and streamline the review process. This 
voluntary informational meeting does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
2. Voluntary Informational Neighborhood Meeting.  Applicant is encouraged to hold a voluntary informational 
neighborhood meeting at City Hall or via Zoom to discuss the proposed project with residents and property 
owners within a 500’ radius of the project location in order to receive feedback from interested parties. This 
voluntary neighborhood meeting does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
 
Application 
3. Submittal Appointment.  Applicant submits Application, Checklist, Required Materials, and Deposit at a pre-
scheduled appointment. City staff shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with an appointment 
within five (5) calendar days after City Staff receives a written request. 
• 
Shot Clocks Starts 
4. Notice Requirements.  Within five (5) calendar days of application submittal, applicant provides  notice  by 
first class United States mail to all property owners and residents within 500’ of proposed project and posts 
in at least three locations near the site. 
5. City Review.  The City shall have ten (10) calendar days from the submission of the application to determine 
whether the application is incomplete. If the City deems that the application is complete, it shall review the 
application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
6. Applicant Resubmittal.  If the City deems that the application is incomplete, the applicant responds to 
corrections and resubmits materials. 
• 
Shot Clocks Restarts 
7. Subsequent City Reviews and Resubmittals.  City staff reviews and shall have ten (10) calendar days from 
the re-submission to determine whether the application is incomplete. If the city deems that the application 
is complete, it shall review the application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
8. Conditional Approval.  City staff may approve the application when all findings are met as provided in the 
Code.  If findings are not met, application will be denied and applicant will need to resubmit.  
9. Notice of Decision.  A decision notice is sent to the applicant within five (5) calendar days after the City acts 
on an application. City staff shall post the Notice of Decision with appeal process on the Small Cell 
Infrastructure 
webpage 
when 
the 
decision 
notice 
is 
sent 
to 
the 
applicant.  
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure 
[SMMC 17.10.070(e)] [SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
10. Limited Exceptions.  If the applicant claims that strict compliance with the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements would effectively prohibit the applicant’s ability to provide personal wireless services, City 
staff may grant a limited exception if required findings are met. 
 
Appeals 
11. Appeals.  The applicant or any person who received notice of an application as provided in the Code may 
appeal any decision to approve or deny a Wireless Permit.  Appeals must be filed with Sustainability & 
Infrastructure Commission (S&IC) Secretary within five (5) calendar days of the Notice of Conditional 
Approval.   If no appeals, the project may be approved. If an appeal is received, staff will schedule a public 
hearing with S&IC to consider and act on the application in accordance with the required findings. If the 
appeal is denied by the S&IC, the project may be approved. If the appeal is approved by the S&IC, the project 
is denied and the applicant will need to resubmit. 
[SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
Encroachment 
Permit 
12. Encroachment Permit.  Applicant applies for an Encroachment Permit with the Public Works Department.  A 
separate fee shall apply as provided in the City’s Fee Schedule.  Encroachment permit shall include traffic 
control plans and insurance.  Prior to construction, applicant shall contact Public Works for an inspection. 
13. Performance Bond.  Applicant shall provide Public Works with a Performance Bond in compliance with COA 
A.13 and B.15. 
Post 
Application 
14. Certification.  Applicant shall provide Public Works Post-Installation Certification in compliance with COA A.3 
and B.5. 
15. Contact Information.  Applicant shall provide up-to-date contact information to Public Works in compliance 
with COA A.11 and B.13. 
235 of 445

--- page 236 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 27 
 
 
 
6 INSTALLATIONS OF FREESTANDING POLES 
The following are general specifications for the installations of wireless facilities on new privately-owned 
freestanding poles.  
 
Table 6.1 – Design Standards for Installations of Freestanding Poles 
Ownership of Pole 
• Freestanding poles shall not be owned by the City and shall be owned by the 
applicant.  
  
Luminaire 
• Per San Mateo standards or as designated by the Director of Public Works. 
 
Electrical Service/Metering 
• Per PG&E’s requirements. Smart Meters or flat-rate billing, if available. 
• Conductors shall be spliced at base of pole in pull box. If there is no existing pull box, 
installation of a new pull box will be required. 
• Grounding rod shall be located in the pull box. 
• Tie into an existing City electrical circuit is not allowed.  
 
Pole Type 
• Round, straight, galvanized steel. 
• Pole bases shall be sized to handle the listed equipment and all other 
equipment required by the owner of the freestanding pole. 
 
Shroud/Cover 
 
• All hardware shall be hidden. Only one equipment shroud, containing all required 
wireless facility equipment, shall be installed per pole. Anchor bolts shall either be 
hidden from view, preferred, or treated and painted to match the pole color. 
 
Color 
• Pole shall be galvanized in accordance with AASHTO M 111. 
• Equipment shall be painted to match existing pole aesthetics, paint shall be powder 
coated over zinc paint. Equipment cabinets shall still be galvanized. 
 
Pole Height 
• The pole height inclusive of all equipment shall not exceed 35 feet. 
 
Structural Analysis 
• 
Structural analysis shall be prepared and stamped by a professionally licensed 
structural engineer.  Certification that the pole foundation and attachments meet or 
exceed design parameters shall be provided to the Public Works Department. The 
analysis shall comply with current building code standards.  The wireless facility shall 
be designed for a risk category IV. 
• 
All structural components of the pole, standard, base, equipment cabinet, couplers, 
anchor bolts, luminaires, antenna, shroud, and other attachments to be used shall 
be designed in accordance with AASHTO’s Standard Specifications for Structural 
Supports for Highway Signs, Luminaires, and Traffic Signals, TIA-222 rev G and ASCE 
7-16 with IBC 2018 (or latest standard), plus amendment for other local conditions. 
Pole Selection Site Analysis 
• 
If the applicant proposes a wireless facility on a new freestanding pole, the 
applicant must first identify all existing potential poles or support structures within 
500 feet from the proposed site along the subject right-of-way that is available and 
technically feasible. The applicant must also demonstrate by clear and convincing 
evidence in writing that any of these identified existing poles or support structures 
within 500 feet from the proposed site would be technically infeasible.  
236 of 445

--- page 237 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 28 
 
 
 
Conduits Sweeps 
• Eight (8) 2” PVC conduit sweeps shall be required. Conduit shall accommodate 
wireless facility carrier electrical and fiber with up to four (4) spare sweeps for future 
service. 
Antenna 
• The top of the antenna shall be no higher than 48 in. above the top of the pole. 
• Antennas shall be shrouded to the maximum extent technically feasible.   
• A tapered transition between the pole and antenna shall be included if feasible. 
• Antennas shall be located at the top of the pole to the maximum extent technically 
feasible. 
Stickers/Signs 
• Any on-pole cabinet and ground mounted utility box should be labeled with a (1) RF 
warning sticker, background to match pole color, no larger than 4 x 6 inches. Facing 
to the street near the elevation of the antennae, (2) 4-inch by 6-inch (maximum) plate 
with the provider’s name, location identifying information, and 24-hour emergency 
telephone number, and (3) No advertising, logos or decals. 
• Existing traffic signs may be relocated to screen accessory equipment. CA MUTCD 
requirements for sign mounting height shall be met.  Equipment screened by a sign 
must not change the silhouette of the sign as viewed by motorists. 
• A pole number label shall be installed. 
Hardware 
• All mounting hardware shall be compatible with mounting surface and weather 
resistant.  
Disconnect Switch 
• Bottom of disconnect switch shall be mounted at a minimum of 7 feet above grade 
or per PG&E’s standards. 
Equipment Cabinet 
• All equipment shall be located internal to the equipment cabinet or 
recessed as much as possible in the equipment cabinet. 
• All equipment shall be mounted per the Owner’s requirements.  
Removal of Freestanding 
Poles 
• Poles shall be promptly removed under a separate encroachment permit once 
applicant is no longer using the pole to actively provide telecommunications service. 
237 of 445

--- page 238 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 29 
 
 
 
Placement Requirements 
 
All freestanding wireless facility poles shall be privately owned and must be permitted by the City of San Mateo. 
Freestanding poles shall not be approved except as provided in these Design Standards and Application 
Requirements. Freestanding poles shall be placed in accordance with the following requirements: 
 
1. In a manner that does not impede, obstruct, or hinder pedestrian or vehicular travel. 
 
2. So as not to be located along the frontage of a historic building, deemed historic on a federal, state, or 
local level. 
 
3. So as not to significantly create a new obstruction to property sight lines, when reasonably feasible. 
 
4. At the intersection of property lines, or along secondary property street facing. 
 
5. Within the street amenity zone whenever possible. 
 
6. In alignment with existing trees, utility poles, and streetlights. 
 
7. Equal distance between trees when possible, with a minimum of 15 feet separation such that no 
proposed disturbance shall occur within the critical root zone of any tree. 
 
8. With appropriate clearance from existing utilities. 
 
9. Outside of the 20-foot equipment clear zone (for base cabinets less than 18-inches in diameter) or 30-
foot clear sight triangle (for base cabinets equal to or greater than 18-inches in diameter) at intersection 
corners as shown in Figure 5-7. 
 
10. 10 feet away from the triangle extension of an alley way flare. 
 
11. Shall not be located within 100 feet of the apron of a fire station or other adjacent emergency service 
facility. 
 
12. No closer than 250 feet away, radially, from another privately-owned freestanding wireless facility. 
 
13. Avoid, when reasonably feasible, placement in residential areas, near schools, and parks. 
 
 
238 of 445

--- page 239 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 30 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6.1 – Freestanding Wireless Facility Spacing Radius 
 
 
 
 
Freestanding poles shall be located 
a minimum of 250 feet from other 
freestanding poles 
Existing streetlights and utility pole 
locations do not affect the placement 
of freestanding poles.  Minimum 250 
feet does not apply. 
239 of 445

--- page 240 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 31 
 
 
 
Figure 6.2 – Freestanding Wireless Facility in Amenity Zone 
 
 
 
Freestanding wireless facilities shall be located such that they in no way impede, obstruct, or hinder the usual 
pedestrian or vehicular travel, affect public safety, obstruct the legal access to or use of the public ROW, violate 
applicable law, violate or conflict with the City’s separate public ROW design standards, specifications, or design 
district requirements, violate the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or in any way create a risk to 
public health, safety, or welfare. Free standing wireless facilities shall be located within the ROW and off set 
from the sidewalk as shown in Figure 5.3 
 
Figure 6.3 – Freestanding Wireless Facility Sight-Line Requirements 
 
         
 
 
 
240 of 445

--- page 241 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 32 
 
 
 
Freestanding wireless facilities shall be located at intersecting property lines as much as possible. Whenever 
possible, the freestanding wireless facilities shall be located on the secondary street. Do not locate wireless 
facilities in clear sight triangle.  Wireless facilities shall also be located a minimum of 15 feet away from trees to 
prevent disturbance within the critical root zone of any tree. The wireless facilities shall not be installed between 
the perpendicular extension of the primary street-facing wall plane of any single or two-family residence as 
shown in Figure 5-4. 
 
Figure 6.4 – Freestanding Wireless facility Location between Property Lines 
241 of 445

--- page 242 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 33 
 
 
 
Figure 6.5 – Freestanding Wireless Facility in Commercial Area 
 
 
When located adjacent to a commercial establishment, such as a shop or restaurant, care should be taken to 
locate the wireless facility such that it does not negatively impact the business. More specifically, wireless 
facilities shall not be located in-front of store front windows, primary walkways, primary entrances or exits, or 
in such a way that it would impede a delivery to the building. Wireless facilities should be located between 
properties as much as possible as shown above. Wireless facilities shall match the architecture of the 
surrounding neighborhood.  The City shall have the authority to mandate the color and other aesthetics of 
wireless facility installations consistent with the City’s design preferences and the requirements in San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. 
 
 
 
242 of 445

--- page 243 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 34 
 
 
 
Table 6.2 – Procedures For Freestanding Poles [SMMC] 
Pre-Application 
1. Voluntary Informational Meeting with City Staff.  Applicant may request a voluntary pre-submittal 
informational meeting with City staff to review potential locations and streamline the review process.  This 
meeting is highly recommended in order to identify acceptable designs.  This voluntary informational 
meeting with City staff does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
2. Voluntary Informational Neighborhood Meeting.  Applicant is encouraged to hold a voluntary 
neighborhood meeting at City Hall or via Zoom to discuss the proposed project with residents and property 
owners within a 500’ radius of the project location in order to receive feedback from interested parties.  
This meeting is highly recommended for new freestanding poles. This voluntary neighborhood meeting 
does not cause the FCC Shot clock to begin. 
Application 
3. Submittal Appointment.  Applicant submits Application, Checklist, Required Materials, and Deposit at a pre-
scheduled appointment. City staff shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with an appointment 
within five (5) working days after City staff receives a written request. 
 
• 
Shot Clocks Starts 
4. Notice Requirements.  Within five (5) calendar days of application submittal, applicant provides notice by 
first class United States mail to all property owners and residents within 500’ of proposed project and posts 
in at least three locations near the site. 
5. City Review.  The City shall have ten (10) calendar days from the submission of the application to determine 
whether the application is incomplete. If the City deems that the application is complete, it shall review the 
application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
6. Power Walks.  Applicant conducts power walks with City staff to determine point of electrical service 
connection.  This shall be shown on the plans when applicant resubmits. 
7. Applicant Resubmittal.  If the City deems that the application is incomplete, the applicant responds to 
corrections and resubmits materials. 
• 
Shot Clocks Restarts 
8. Subsequent City Reviews and Resubmittals.  City staff reviews and shall have ten (10) calendar days from 
the re-submission to determine whether the application is incomplete. If the City deems that the 
application is complete, it shall review the application in accordance with the FCC Shot Clock limits. 
9. Conditional Approval.  City staff may approve the application when all findings are met as provided in the 
Code.  If findings are not met, application will be denied and applicant will need to resubmit.  
10. Notice of Decision.  A decision notice is sent to the applicant within five (5) calendar days after the City acts 
on an application. City staff shall post notice of conditional approval with appeal process on the Small Cell 
Infrastructure 
webpage 
when 
the 
decision 
notice 
is 
sent 
to 
the 
applicant.  
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure 
[SMMC 17.10.070(e)] [SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
Limited Exceptions.  If the applicant claims that strict compliance with the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements would effectively prohibit the applicant’s ability to provide personal wireless services, City 
staff may grant a limited exception if required findings are met. 
 
Appeals 
11. Appeals.  The applicant or any person who received notice of an application as provided in the Code may 
appeal any decision to approve or deny a Wireless Permit.  Appeals must be filed with Sustainability & 
Infrastructure Commission (S&IC) Secretary within five (5) calendar days following the decision.  If no 
appeals, the project may be approved. If an appeal is received, staff will schedule a public hearing with S&IC 
to consider and act on the application in accordance with the required findings. If the appeal is denied by 
the S&IC, the project may be approved. If the appeal is approved by the S&IC, the project is denied and the 
applicant will need to resubmit. 
[SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
 
 
Building Permit 
12. Building Permit.  Applicant applies for a Building Permit with the Building Division for PG&E release.  A 
separate fee shall apply. 
 
243 of 445

--- page 244 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 35 
 
 
 
Encroachment 
Permit 
13. Encroachment Permit.  Applicant applies for an Encroachment Permit with the Public Works Department.  
A separate fee shall apply as provided in the City’s Fee Schedule.  Encroachment permit shall include traffic 
control plans and insurance.  Prior to construction, applicant shall contact Public Works for an inspection. 
14. Performance Bond.  Applicant shall provide Public Works with a Performance Bond in compliance with COA 
A.13 and B.15. 
Post 
Application 
15. Certification.  Applicant shall provide Public Works Post-Installation Certification in compliance with COA 
A.3 and B.5. 
16. Contact Information.  Applicant shall provide up-to-date contact information to Public Works in compliance 
with COA A.11 and B.13. 
 
 
 
244 of 445

--- page 245 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 36 
 
 
 
7 SECTION 6409 APPROVALS 
 
Section 6409 Approvals shall comply with SMMC 17.10.110 and all design standards and application 
requirements in this document.   
 
Table 7.1 – Procedures For Section 6409 Approvals [SMMC] 
Pre-Application 
1. Voluntary Information Meeting with City Staff.  Applicant may request a voluntary pre-submittal 
informational meeting with the City staff to review proposed modifications to the existing facility and 
streamline the review process.  This meeting is highly recommended in order to identify acceptable designs.  
This voluntary informational meeting does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
2. 
Voluntary Informational Neighborhood Meeting.  Applicant is encouraged to hold a voluntary informational 
neighborhood meeting at City Hall or via Zoom to discuss the proposed project with residents and property 
owners within 500’ of the project location in order to receive feedback from interested parties. This 
voluntary informational neighborhood meeting does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin.  
Application 
3. Submittal Appointment.  Applicant submits Application, Checklist, Required Materials, and Deposit at a pre-
scheduled appointment. City staff shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with an appointment 
within five (5) working days after City staff receives a written request. Alternative sites analysis is not 
required for Section 6409 approvals.  A Section 6409 Evaluation indicating whether the proposed 
modification is an eligible facilities request that complies with the FCC is required. 
• 
Shot Clocks Starts 
4. City Review.  The City shall have ten (10) calendar days from the submission of the application to determine 
whether the application is incomplete. If the City deems that the application is complete, it shall review the 
application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits.  
5. Applicant Resubmittal.  If the City deems that the application is incomplete, the applicant responds to 
corrections and resubmits materials. 
• 
Shot Clocks Restarts 
6. Subsequent City Reviews and Resubmittals.  City staff reviews and shall have ten (10) calendar days from 
the re-submission to determine whether the application is incomplete. If the city deems that the application 
is complete, it shall review the application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
7. Conditional Approval.  City staff may approve the application when all findings are met as provided in the 
Code.  If findings are not met, application will be denied and applicant will need to resubmit.  
8. 
Notice of Decision.  A decision notice is sent to the applicant within five (5) calendar days after the City acts 
on an application. City staff shall post the Notice of  Decision on the Small Cell Infrastructure webpage when 
the decision notice is sent to the applicant. https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure 
[SMMC 17.10.070(e)] [SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
9. Limited Exceptions.  If the applicant claims that strict compliance with the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements would effectively prohibit the applicant’s ability to provide personal wireless services, City 
staff may grant a limited exception if required findings are met. 
Appeals 
10. Appeals.  The applicant only (not the public) may appeal any decision to deny a Wireless Permit for 6409.  
Appeals must be filed with the Director of Public Works within five (5) calendar days of the Notice of 
Decision.  If the appeal is approved by the Director of Public Works, the project is denied and the applicant 
will need to resubmit. 
[SMMC 17.10.110(e)] 
Encroachment 
Permit 
11. Encroachment Permit.  Applicant applies for an Encroachment Permit with the Public Works Department.  
A separate fee shall apply as provided in the City’s Fee Schedule.  Encroachment permit shall include traffic 
control plans and insurance.  Prior to construction, applicant shall contact Public Works for an inspection. 
12. Performance Bond.  Applicant shall provide Public Works with a Performance Bond in compliance with COA 
A.13 and B.15. 
Post 
Application 
13. Certification.  Applicant shall provide Public Works Post-Installation Certification in compliance with COA 
A.3 and B.5. 
14. Contact Information.  Applicant shall provide up-to-date contact information to Public Works in compliance 
with COA A.11 and B.13. 
245 of 445

--- page 246 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 37 
 
 
 
8 NON-CONFORMING WIRELESS FACILITIES 
Any non-conforming wireless facilities in existence at the time these Design Standards and Application 
Requirements become effective shall be brought into conformance with the current Design Standards within 
ten (10) years upon receiving written notice from the City, or otherwise in accordance with applicable law. 
 
Applicants are not only required to comply with these Design Standards and Application Requirements during 
the initial application, but are also required to continue to monitor compliance with application Design 
Standards in the future in accordance with applicable law. 
246 of 445

--- page 247 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 38 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 
 
247 of 445

--- page 248 ---
Appendix A:  Wireless Communications Facilities 
Permit Application 
248 of 445

--- page 249 ---
Public Works Department 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
pweng@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7300 
 
Engineering Division 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
 
  
 
Revised: March 2021 
 
 
Wireless Communications Facilities  
Permit Application 
 
INSTRUCTIONS:  
Prior to submittal of this Application, the Application Checklist and all other 
required materials, a meeting with staff is strongly encouraged. This voluntary 
informational meeting with City staff does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to 
begin.    
 
City staff may deem the application incomplete if the applicant fails to include 
any required information or materials. Applications shall comply with SMMC 
17.10 and the Design Standards and Application Requirements. 
 
Applicants may submit applications by appointment only. Please contact the 
Public Works Department for an appointment. 
 
Applicant: 
Name: ______________________________________________________ 
Company: ___________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________ 
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________ 
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________ 
Authorized Representative: 
Name: ___________________________________________________________ 
Company: ________________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ___________________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: ____________________________________________________ 
Phone: ____________________________ Fax: __________________________ 
E-mail:  __________________________________________________________ 
Pole Owner: 
Name: ______________________________________________________ 
Company: ___________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________ 
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________ 
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________ 
Pole Owner’s Signature: 
_________________________________________________________________ 
Printed Name: _________________________________ Date: _______________ 
Applicant’s Signature: (if different from Property Owner) 
_________________________________________________________________ 
Printed Name: _________________________________ Date: _______________ 
Proposed Site Location and Description: 
Proposed Project Address: ________________________________________________________      Pole Number a:_____________________________________ 
Zoning District (for ROW, provide nearest zoning district): ________________________________     a If in the ROW, provide the pole number for the streetlight or pole. 
Latitude/Longitude of Location: __________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
Construction Value ($)/Project Description:   _______________________________________________________________________________________________ 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
Applicant’s Request: 
□  WIRELESS PERMIT         □  SECTION 6409 APPROVAL            □   OTHER __________________________________________________________________ 
STAFF USE ONLY 
Applicable Shot Clock Period (for informational purposes only):        □   60 days       □  90 days        □   OTHER: __________ 
Pre-App Submittal Meeting ________________________________________ 
Neighborhood Meeting ____________________________________________ 
Application Submittal _____________________________________________ 
 
Application Deemed Complete _____________________________________ 
Shot Clock Expiration _____________________________________________ 
Conditionally Approved ___________________________________________ 
Appeal _________________________________________________________ 
249 of 445

--- page 250 ---
Appendix B:  Wireless Communications Facilities 
Permit Application Checklist 
250 of 445

--- page 251 ---
Public Works Department 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
pweng@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7300 
 
Engineering Division 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
 
 
 
Revised: March 2021 
 
 
Wireless Communications Facilities 
Permit Application Checklist 
 
INSTRUCTIONS:  
Prior to submittal of this Application Checklist, Application and all other 
required materials, a meeting with City staff is strongly encouraged.  The City 
also recommends applicant holds a voluntary neighborhood meeting. These 
voluntary meetings shall not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin.    
 
City staff may deem the application incomplete if the applicant fails to include 
any required information or materials. Applications shall comply with SMMC 
17.10 and Design Standards and Application Requirements. 
 
All starred (*) items in the checklist below are not required for a Section 
6409 Approval. 
 
Applicants may submit applications by appointment only. Please contact the 
Public Works Department for an appointment. 
 
Applicant: 
Name: ______________________________________________________ 
Company: ___________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________ 
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________ 
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________ 
Proposed Site Location and Description: 
Proposed Project Address: ___________________________________________ 
Project Description: _________________________________________________ 
Pole Number a:_____________________________________________________ 
a If in the ROW, provide the pole number for the streetlight or pole. 
Applicant’s Request: 
□  WIRELESS PERMIT      □  SECTION 6409 APPROVAL        
□  OTHER(describe request)       __________________________________ 
 
APPLICATION CHECKLIST – REQUIRED MATERIALS 
 
 
  APPLICATION FORM AND DEPOSIT 
 
  PROJECT PLANS 
 
  VOLUNTARY NEIGBORHOOD MEETING 
SUMMARY 
[Attachment 1] 
 
  PHOTO SIMULATIONS 
[Attachment 2] 
 
  PUBLIC NOTICE, AFFIDAVIT, LOG OF 
COMMENTS 
[Attachment 3] 
 
  PRIOR PERMITS & REGULATORY 
APPROVALS 
[Attachments 4a, 4b, 4c, 4d] 
 
  PROPERTY OWNER’S AUTHORIZATION 
[Attachment 5] 
 
 
 
 
 
  INITIAL CEQA ASSESSMENT 
[Attachment 6] 
 
  RF COMPLIANCE REPORT 
[Attachment 7] 
 
  NOISE COMPLIANCE REPORT 
[Attachment 8] 
 
  SECTION 6409 EVALUATION (if applicable) 
[Attachment 9] 
 
  PROJECT PURPOSE AND TECHNICAL 
OBJECTIVES INFORMATION* 
[Attachment 10] 
 
  ALTERNATIVE SITES ANALYSIS* 
[Attachment 11] 
 
  STRUCTURAL CERTIFICATION (if applicable) 
[Attachment 12] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
251 of 445

--- page 252 ---
APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS – REQUIRED MATERIALS 
 
The following Application Requirements contain the requirements for a complete wireless facility permit application. For the 
application to be deemed complete, the applicant must submit all the applicable application materials in the Application 
Checklist in accordance with the Application Requirements along with all other generally applicable materials required for 
the requested permit or approval. 
 
Notes: All starred (*) items are not required for a Section 6409 Approval. After the City issues the requested permit, the 
applicant must obtain all other required permits (including, without limitation and as applicable, building, electrical, plumbing, 
encroachment, etc.) prior to performing the installation. 
 
 
APPLICATION FORM AND DEPOSIT 
 
Instructions: Complete the Wireless Facilities Permit Application  available on the City’s website or at the Public Works 
Department and submit the corresponding application deposit for the requested permit or approval. You may find the City’s 
fee schedule on the City’s website or contact the Public Works Department for appropriate filing fees. 
 
 
PROJECT PLANS 
 
Instructions: Provide two sets of complete 24 x 36-inch project plans drawn to a scale of not less than 1/16" equals one 
foot and a digital file of such plans in portable document format (PDF). Project plans must contain all the following:  
 
1. Cover Sheet 
 
A complete cover sheet must include at a minimum: 
  a detailed project description that specifies the proposed installation and/or modifications including without 
limitation all physical elements such as antennas, radios, power services, all cables, mounts, and all other 
elements of the proposed project 
  site information that includes the proposed site address, site latitude and longitude (WGS 84 datum), zoning 
classification of the nearest private property, project team contact information  site map, and pole number (if 
applicable) 
2. Site Survey (Only required for proposed ground mounted equipment) 
Only a California-registered Civil Engineer or licensed surveyor may prepare the site survey. A complete site survey 
must include: 
  property and right-of-way boundaries with all bearings, distances, monuments, iron rods, caps or other markers 
clearly shown and called out 
  boundaries for all easements and/or dedications with all dimensions clearly shown and called out 
  approximate topographical contour lines with elevations called out 
 
  any trees at least 4 inches in diameter at a point approximately 4.5 feet above ground 
  all structures or improvements on the property or within the right of way within any block partially or entirely occupied 
by the project and any elements thereof 
  all structures or improvements on adjacent parcels within 15 feet from the property line 
  a north arrow, date, scale and legend 
  wet stamp and wet signature from the licensed preparer 
  general specifications and notes identifying the applicable public health and safety codes and standards 
 
252 of 445

--- page 253 ---
3. Site Development Plan 
 
A complete site development plan must include: 
  plan-view drawings, which include: 
  the entire property or right-of-way block with the proposed project improvements 
  detailed before-and-after views for any equipment pads, enclosures, cabinets, pedestals and/or vaults 
  all existing and proposed equipment with all dimensions, labels and ownership identifications clearly called 
out 
  boundaries for all easements, encroachments and/or other rights-of-way for access and utilities in 
connection with the wireless site with all dimensions clearly shown and called out 
  all existing and proposed primary and backup utilities, including without limitation all cables, connectors, 
risers, conduits, cable shrouds, trays, bridges and/or doghouses, transformers, disconnect switches, panels, 
meters, pedestals, cabinets, vaults, generators and/or generator sockets  
  detailed before-and-after elevation drawings from all four cardinal directions, which include: 
  all existing and proposed structures, improvements and/or fixtures with all dimensions clearly called out 
  all existing and proposed equipment with all dimensions, labels and ownership identifications clearly called 
out 
  all existing and proposed fiber optic cables, conduits, risers, guy wires, anchors, primary and secondary 
power lines clearly called out 
  callouts and notes for any proposed new or extended concealment elements 
  a north arrow, date, scale and legend 
 
4. Equipment Inventory 
The equipment inventory does not need to include primary utility cables, panels or cabinets, or any other objects not 
primarily designed or intended for radio communications purposes. All other equipment must be inventoried with the 
following information for each component: 
  manufacturer and model number 
  basic dimensions (height, width, length and weight) 
  table showing volumes of all equipment 
 
 
VOLUNTARY NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING SUMMARY 
 
Instructions: Provide a summary of neighborhood meeting if conducted. Label the summary as “Attachment 1 – 
Neighborhood Meeting Summary” and attach it to the application. If a meeting is not conducted, mark the checklist box 
with an “X”. 
 
 
PHOTO SIMULATIONS 
 
Instructions: Provide photo simulations of the proposed project as constructed. The photo simulations must be in a high-
resolution format and show the proposed facility from reasonable line-of-sight locations that would accurately and reliably 
reflect the appearance of the proposed facility and/or modifications as-built. Label these photo simulations “Attachment 2 – 
Photo Simulations” and attach them to this application. Except as otherwise provided, photo simulations must contain all 
the following: 
 
253 of 445

--- page 254 ---
1.  Current Site Photographs 
 
Current site photographs must include: 
  photographs of the existing site from at least two different reasonable line-of-sight locations from public streets 
or other adjacent viewpoints; 
  a map detail showing each location where a photograph was taken, the proposed site and the direction to the 
site from each photo location; 
  Include a close-up view of the equipment, including all wires, conduits, equipment, etc. 
 
2. Photo Simulations 
 
Photo simulations must include: 
  an accurate and reliable visual representation of the proposed facility from the same reasonable line-of-sight 
locations used in the current site photographs and must include without limitation all interconnecting cables, 
conduits, brackets, and electronic equipment such as antennas, radio units, powering, and the like; 
  a map detail showing each location where a photograph was taken, the proposed site and the direction to the 
site from each photo location; 
  Include a close-up view of the equipment, including all wires, conduits, equipment, etc. 
 
3. Section 6409 Photo Simulation  
For Section 6409 Approval applications, the applicant must provide at least one photo simulation that demonstrates the 
impact of the proposed modification on all concealment elements of the support structure. Concealment elements include 
but are not limited to radomes, cable shrouds, painting, landscaping, equipment enclosures and designs and/or 
techniques intended to blend with the surrounding built and/or natural environment. 
 
PUBLIC NOTICE, AFFIDAVIT, LOG OF COMMENTS 
 
Instructions: Provide a copy of the notice mailed to all property owners and residents within 500’ of the proposed project, 
proof of notification mailing (affidavit), and log of concerns, comments, questions with response in accordance with the 
Application Requirements and Design Standards.  Label the notice, affidavit and log “Attachment 3 – PUBLIC NOTICE, 
AFFIDAVIT, LOG” and attach it to this application. 
 
 
PRIOR PERMITS AND REGULATORY APPROVALS 
 
Instructions: Provide true and correct copies of all the following: 
 
1. Prior Permits 
If the applicant requests a Section 6409 Approval, provide copies of all prior local regulatory approvals (original siting 
permits and any modification permits) issued for the facility with any corresponding conditions of approval and project 
plans approved by the applicable regulatory authority. Alternatively, the applicant may submit a written justification that 
sets forth the reasons why prior regulatory approvals were not required for the wireless facility at the time it was 
constructed or modified. Label this documentation “Attachment 4a – Prior Permits” and attach it to this application.  
 
2. FCC Licenses 
If the applicant or service provider proposes to operate in FCC-licensed spectrum, provide proof of licenses for all 
planned operating bands. If there are federal build-out requirements, indicate which and whether they have been fully 
satisfied. If not satisfied, indicate what remains to be satisfied. Label this documentation “Attachment 4b – FCC 
Licenses” and attach it to this application. 
 
254 of 445

--- page 255 ---
3. FAA Forms 
If the proposed facility requires the applicant to file FAA form 7460 or other documentation under Federal Aviation 
Regulation Part 77.13 et seq., or under the FCC rules, provide such documentation. Label this documentation 
“Attachment 4c – FAA Forms” and attach it to this application. 
 
4. Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN) / Wireless ID Registration (WIR) 
For all applications for facilities in the public right-of-way, provide a true and correct copy of the applicant’s CPCN and/or 
WIR issued by the California Public Utilities Commission or its successor agency. Label this documentation “Attachment 
4d – CPCN / WIR” and attach it to this application. 
 
 
POLE OWNER’S AUTHORIZATION 
 
Instructions:  For privately owned poles, provide a letter of authorization from the pole owner that authorizes the applicant 
to perform the installation or modification. The letter must be signed by the owner. In lieu of a letter of authorization for 
facilities in the public right-of-way, the applicant may submit the property owner’s standard authorization form issued in the 
property owner’s regular course of business to demonstrate that the applicant has the authority to perform the installation or 
modification. Label this authorization “Attachment 5 – Property Owner’s Authorization” and attach it to this application. 
 
 
INITIAL CEQA ASSESSMENT 
 
Instructions: Complete, sign and attach to this application a fully executed Environmental Information Form. Label this form 
“Attachment 6 – Environmental Information Form” and attach it to this application. The Environmental Information Form 
may be obtained electronically on the City’s website or by contacting the Public Works Department.  
 
 
RF COMPLIANCE REPORT 
 
Instructions: Provide an RF exposure compliance report prepared and certified by an RF engineer that certifies that the 
proposed facility, as well as any collocated facilities and any cumulative emissions from adjacent areas, will comply with 
applicable federal RF human exposure standards and limits. At a minimum, the RF exposure compliance report must provide 
the same information and in the same form as the FCC LSGAC Appendix A form for each band of operations. For projects 
on or attached to poles subject to CPUC General Order 95 regulation, provide evidence of compliance with CPUC General 
Order 95, Rule 94. Label this report “Attachment 7 – RF Compliance Report” and attach it to this application.  
 
The RF compliance report must include:  
  the actual frequency, actual or maximum power levels (in watts effective radiated power (ERP)), and the actual 
or maximum transmitting channels for all existing and proposed antennas at the site. 
  exhibits that show:  
  the location and orientation of all transmitting antennas;  
  the boundaries of areas with RF exposures (whether individually or cumulatively) in excess of the 
uncontrolled/general population limit (as that term is defined by the FCC);  
  the boundaries of areas with RF exposures (whether individually or cumulatively) in excess of the 
controlled/occupational limit (as that term is defined by the FCC). 
 
 
Note: Each such boundary must be clearly marked and identified for every transmitting antenna at the project site, whether 
owned/operated by the applicant or another licensee. To the extent that the project site contains collocated transmitters from 
multiple operators, the RF exposure compliance report must evaluate all the transmitting antennas that may cause cumulative 
emissions. 
255 of 445

--- page 256 ---
NOISE COMPLIANCE REPORT 
 
Instructions: Provide a noise compliance report for the proposed facility and all associated equipment including all 
environmental control units, sump pumps, temporary backup power generators, and permanent backup power generators in 
order to demonstrate compliance with the City’s noise regulations. The noise compliance report must be prepared and 
certified by an engineer and include an analysis of the manufacturers’ specifications for all noise-emitting equipment and a 
depiction of the proposed equipment relative to all adjacent property lines. In lieu of a noise compliance report, the applicant 
may submit evidence from the equipment manufacturer that the ambient noise emitted from all the proposed equipment will 
not, both individually and cumulatively, exceed the applicable limits. Label this analysis “Attachment 8 – Noise Compliance 
Report” and attach it to the application. 
 
SECTION 6409 EVALUATION 
 
Instructions: If the applicant requests approval pursuant to Section 6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation 
Act of 2012 (codified as 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a)), the applicant must complete and submit justification whether the proposed 
modification is an eligible facilities request that complies with the applicable FCC substantial change thresholds. Label this 
worksheet “Attachment 9 – Section 6409 Evaluation” and attach it to the application. 
 
 
PROJECT PURPOSE AND TECHNICAL OBJECTIVES* 
 
Instructions: For applications not subject to Section 6409, provide the following information to demonstrate the intended 
technical service objectives and the nature of the existing service capabilities of the applicant’s network in the area that would 
be served by the proposed facility or enhanced by the proposed modification. Label this analysis “Attachment 10 – Project 
Purpose and Technical Objectives” and attach it to the application. 
 
1. Project Purpose 
Identify and describe the project purpose. Possible responses analyze whether the proposed facility or modification will:  
  add new personal wireless service coverage to an area in which the licensee does not currently provide any 
personal wireless service coverage; 
  add new personal wireless service capacity to an area in which the licensee currently provides personal wireless 
service coverage. 
If the project has a different purpose from the options described above, provide such purpose in full detail. 
 
2. Technical Objectives 
Provide a detailed written statement that describes the technical objectives the applicant intends the proposed wireless 
facility to achieve and the factual reasons why the proposed location, centerline height and equipment configuration are 
necessary to achieve those objectives. In addition, the statement must include all the following required information 
and/or materials: 
  a street-level map that shows the general geographic area of the service area(s) to be improved through the 
proposed wireless facility (the “Service Area”); 
  a written narrative that describes the uses (commercial, residential, primary thoroughfare, highway, etc.) within 
the Service Area, and the manner in which those uses would be negatively affected if the Service Area were to 
remain unaddressed; 
  a statement as to whether the applicant conducted any drive test(s) and, if so, all drive test results and data (in 
.XLS or .CSV or similar format) together with a report that describes how and when the applicant conducted 
such test(s). 
3. Network Map 
Provide an overview map of the applicant’s network within the City’s jurisdictional and territorial boundaries that shows 
(1) all the existing wireless facilities that applicant currently owns and/or operates and (2) all future wireless facilities that 
are reasonably foreseeable within two years of the application submission. The map must provide a legend that 
256 of 445

--- page 257 ---
distinguishes between “macro” cells and small cell facilities. 
 
ALTERNATIVE SITES ANALYSIS* 
 
Instructions: For applications not subject to Section 6409, provide a detailed written analysis that describes how the 
proposed wireless facility complies with all the applicable requirements in the San Mateo Municipal Code, which includes 
without limitation the provisions specific to wireless facilities, and all the alternative locations and designs considered before 
submitting this application. Label this analysis “Attachment 11 – Alternative Sites Analysis” and attach it to the application. 
The Alternative Sites Analysis shall be included as part of the neighborhood meeting, if conducted.  In addition, the analysis 
must include all the following required information and/or materials: 
 
  a street-level map that shows the general geographic area surrounding the proposed location annotated to show: 
  all existing wireless facilities within the relevant geographic area 
  the search ring used for this particular project.  The search ring shall be a minimum radius of 500’. 
  all locations for each alternative considered for this particular project 
  for each alternative site considered, a detailed written description that includes, without limitation all the following: 
  the nearest physical address 
  zoning district designation for the nearest private property 
  support structure type considered 
  general design concept and concealment elements/techniques considered 
  overall height and achievable antenna centerline height 
  the factual reasons why the applicant considered the potential alternative site location and/or design to 
be unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not in accordance with the development standards in San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. Note: This explanation must include a meaningful comparative 
analysis and such technical information and other factual justification as are necessary to document the 
reasons why each alternative is unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not as consistent with the 
development standards in Chapter 17.10. Conclusory statements that a particular alternative is 
unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not in accordance with the development standards in Chapter 
17.10 will be deemed incomplete. 
 
  If the applicant did not locate any alternatives within the search ring, the analysis must expressly state that no 
such alternatives were considered. 
 
STRUCTURAL CERTIFICATION 
 
Instructions: Provide certification prepared and stamped by a professionally licensed structural engineer certifying that the 
pole foundation and attachments meet or exceed design parameters detailed in the design standards. Label this analysis 
“Attachment 12 – Structural Certification” and attach it to the application.  
 
 
257 of 445

--- page 258 ---
Appendix C: Standard Conditions of Approval 
for Wireless Communications 
Facilities
 
 
258 of 445

--- page 259 ---
STANDARD CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES IN 
THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY PURSUANT TO SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION 
17.10.080 
 
A. 
Standard Conditions for Wireless Facilities Permits.  
 
1. 
Permit Term. This permit will automatically expire 10 years and one day from its issuance 
if a new permit has not been applied for in writing at least 120 days prior to permit 
expiration, except when California Government Code § 65964(b), as may be amended or 
superseded in the future, authorizes the City to establish a shorter term for public safety 
or substantial land use reasons. Any other permits or approvals issued in connection with 
any collocation, modification or other change to this wireless facility, which includes 
without limitation any permits or other approvals deemed-granted or deemed-approved 
under federal or state law, will not extend this term limit unless expressly provided 
otherwise in such permit or approval or required under federal or state law. 
 
2. 
Compliance with Approved Plans. Before the Department of Public Works issues any 
encroachment permit and/or other ministerial permits required to commence construction 
in connection with this permit, the permittee must incorporate this permit, all conditions 
associated with this permit and the approved photo simulations into the project plans (the 
“Approved Plans”). The permittee must construct, install and operate the wireless facility 
in substantial compliance with the Approved Plans. Any alterations, modifications or other 
changes to the Approved Plans, whether requested by the permittee or required by other 
departments or public agencies with jurisdiction over the wireless facility, must be 
submitted in a written request subject to the City’s prior review and approval, who may 
refer the request to the original approval authority if the City finds that the requested 
alteration, modification or other change deviates from the Approved Plans or implicates 
a significant or substantial land-use concern. 
 
3. 
Post-Installation Certification. Within 60 calendar days after the permittee commences 
full, unattended operations of a wireless facility approved or deemed-approved under San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10, the permittee shall provide the City with 
documentation that the wireless facility has been installed and/or constructed in 
compliance with the Approved Plans.  Such documentation must include as-built 
drawings,  GIS data, post installation RF study, and site photographs. 
 
4. 
Build-Out Period. This permit will automatically expire one (1) year from the approval or 
deemed-granted date. The City may grant one written extension to a date certain, but not 
to exceed one (1) additional year, when the permittee shows good cause to extend the 
limitations period in a written request for an extension submitted at least 30 days prior to 
the automatic expiration date in this condition. 
 
5. 
Maintenance Obligations; Vandalism. During any maintenance or repair operations, 
the permittee shall keep the site, which includes without limitation any and all 
improvements, equipment, structures, access routes, fences and landscape features, in 
a neat, clean and safe condition. The permittee, at no cost to the City, shall remove and 
remediate any graffiti or other vandalism on its equipment within 48 hours after the 
permittee receives notice or otherwise becomes aware that such graffiti or other 
vandalism occurred.  
 
259 of 445

--- page 260 ---
6. 
Compliance with Laws. The permittee shall maintain compliance at all times with all 
federal, state and local statutes, regulations, orders or other rules that carry the force of 
law (“Laws”) applicable to the permittee, the subject property, the wireless facility or any 
use or activities in connection with the use authorized in this permit, which includes 
without limitation any Laws applicable to human exposure to RF emissions. The permittee 
expressly acknowledges and agrees that this obligation is intended to be broadly 
construed and that no other specific requirements in these conditions are intended to 
reduce, relieve or otherwise lessen the permittee’s obligations to maintain compliance 
with all Laws. In the event that the City fails to timely notice, prompt or enforce compliance 
with any applicable provision in the San Mateo Municipal Code, any permit, any permit 
condition or any applicable law or regulation, the applicant or permittee will not be relieved 
from its obligation to comply in all respects with all applicable provisions in the San Mateo 
Municipal Code, any permit, any permit condition or any applicable law or regulation. 
 
7. 
Cooperation with RF Compliance Evaluations. At all times relevant to this permit, the 
permittee and the property owner shall reasonably cooperate with efforts by the City to 
evaluate whether the wireless facility complies with all applicable FCC rules and 
regulations for human exposure to RF emissions. Such cooperation shall be at no cost to 
the City and may include, but is not limited to: (1) furnishing the City with a written affidavit 
signed by an RF engineer certifying the wireless facility’s compliance with applicable FCC 
rules and regulations; (2) providing technical data such as the frequencies in use, power 
output levels and antenna specifications, reasonably necessary to evaluate compliance 
with maximum permissible exposure levels set by the FCC; (3) allowing the City or its 
designee to have supervised access to the areas near the wireless facility for inspections 
and field measurements; and (4) promptly responding to all requests by the City or its 
designee for information and/or cooperation with respect to any of the foregoing. 
 
8. 
Adverse Impacts on Other Properties. The permittee shall use all reasonable efforts to 
avoid any and all undue or unnecessary adverse impacts on nearby properties that may 
arise from the permittee’s or its authorized personnel’s construction, installation, 
operation, modification, maintenance, repair, removal and/or other activities at the site. 
The permittee shall not perform or cause others to perform any construction, installation, 
operation, modification, maintenance, repair, removal or other work that involves heavy 
equipment or machines except during normal construction work hours authorized by the 
San Mateo Municipal Code. The restricted work hours in this condition will not prohibit 
any work required to prevent an actual, immediate harm to property or persons, or any 
work during an emergency declared by the City. The City may issue a stop work order for 
any activities that violates this condition. 
 
9. 
Backup Power; Generators. The permittee shall operate backup power generators only 
during (a) commercial power outages or (b) for maintenance purposes during normal 
construction hours in accordance with the San Mateo Municipal Code. The City may 
approve a temporary power source and/or generator in connection with initial 
construction, major repairs or in the event of an emergency. The permittee shall not 
operate any permanent backup generators located in the public right-of-way. 
 
10. 
Inspections; Emergencies. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the 
City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee may enter onto the site and inspect the 
improvements and equipment upon reasonable prior notice to the permittee,  or promptly 
after  an emergency. The City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee may, but will not 
be obligated to, enter onto the site area without prior notice to support, repair, disable or 
remove any improvements or equipment in emergencies or when such improvements or 
260 of 445

--- page 261 ---
equipment threatens actual, imminent harm to property or persons. The permittee, if 
present, may observe the City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee while any such 
inspection or emergency access occurs. 
 
11. 
Permittee’s Contact Information. The permittee shall furnish the City with accurate and 
up-to-date contact information for a person responsible for the wireless facility, which 
includes without limitation such person’s full name, title, direct telephone number, 
facsimile number, mailing address and email address. The permittee shall keep such 
contact information up to date at all times and immediately provide the City with updated 
contact information in the event that either the responsible person or such person’s 
contact information changes. 
 
12. 
Indemnification. The permittee shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City, City 
Council and City boards, commissions, agents, officers, officials, volunteers, and 
employees from any and all (1) damages, liabilities, injuries, losses, costs and expenses 
and from any and all claims, demands, law suits, writs and other actions or proceedings 
(“Claims”) brought against the City or its agents, officers, officials, volunteers, and/or 
employees to challenge, attack, seek to modify, set aside, void or annul the City’s 
approval of this permit, and (2) other Claims of any kind or form, whether for personal 
injury, death or property damage, that arise from or in connection with the permittee’s or 
its agents’, directors’, officers’, employees’, contractors’, subcontractors’, licensees’, or 
customers’ acts or omissions in connection with this permit or the wireless facility. 
Permittee’s duty to defend and indemnify shall not apply to the extent such Claims are 
caused by the sole or active negligence or willful misconduct of the City. In the event the 
City becomes aware of any Claims, the City will use best efforts to promptly notify the 
permittee and the private property owner and shall reasonably cooperate in the defense. 
The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the City shall have the right to 
approve, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, the legal counsel providing 
the City’s defense, and the property owner and/or permittee (as applicable) shall promptly 
reimburse City for any costs and expenses directly and necessarily incurred by the City 
in the course of the defense. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the 
permittee’s indemnification obligations under this condition are a material consideration 
that motivates the City to approve this permit, and that such indemnification obligations 
will survive the expiration or revocation of this permit. 
 
13. 
Performance Bond. Before the Department of Public Works issues any encroachment 
permit and/or other ministerial permits required to commence construction in connection 
with this permit, the permittee shall post a performance bond from a surety and in a form 
acceptable to the City in an amount reasonably necessary to cover the cost to remove 
the improvements and restore all affected areas based on a written estimate from a 
qualified contractor with experience in wireless facilities removal. The written estimate 
must include the cost to remove all equipment and other improvements, which includes 
without limitation all antennas, radios, batteries, generators, utilities, cabinets, mounts, 
brackets, hardware, cables, wires, conduits, structures, shelters, towers, poles, footings 
and foundations, whether above ground or below ground, constructed or installed in 
connection with the wireless facility, plus the cost to completely restore any areas affected 
by the removal work to a standard compliant with applicable laws. In establishing or 
adjusting the bond amount required under this condition, and in accordance with 
California Government Code § 65964(a), the City shall take into consideration any 
information provided by the permittee regarding the cost to remove the wireless facility to 
a standard compliant with applicable laws. The performance bond shall expressly survive 
261 of 445

--- page 262 ---
the duration of the permit term to the extent required to effectuate a complete removal of 
the subject wireless facility in accordance with this condition. 
 
14. 
Permit Revocation. The City may review this permit at any time due to complaints about 
noncompliance with applicable laws or any approval conditions attached to this permit. In 
accordance with all applicable laws, the City may revoke this permit or amend these 
conditions as the City deems necessary or appropriate to correct any such 
noncompliance. 
 
15. 
Record Retention. The permittee must maintain, for the duration of the permit term, 
complete and accurate copies of all permits and other regulatory approvals issued in 
connection with the wireless facility, which includes without limitation this approval, the 
approved plans and photo simulations incorporated into this approval, all conditions 
associated with this approval and any ministerial permits or approvals issued in 
connection with this approval. In the event that the permittee does not maintain such 
records as required in this condition, any ambiguities or uncertainties that would be 
resolved through an inspection of the missing records will be construed against the 
permittee. The permittee may keep electronic records; provided, however, that copies 
kept in the City’s possession will control over any conflicts, and originals will control over 
all other copies in any form. 
 
16. 
Undergrounded Utilities. In the event that other public utilities or cable television 
operators in the public right-of-way underground their facilities where the permittee’s 
wireless facility is located, the permittee must underground its equipment except the 
antennas and antenna supports, to the extent technically feasible. Such undergrounding 
shall occur at the permittee’s sole cost and expense except as reimbursed pursuant to 
law. In areas with existing overhead lines, new communication lines shall be “overlashed” 
with existing communication lines to the extent technically feasible. 
 
17. 
Electric Meter Removal. In the event that the commercial electric utility provider adopts 
or changes its rules obviating the need for a separate or ground-mounted electric meter 
and enclosure, the permittee on its own initiative and at its sole cost and expense shall 
apply to the City for permission to remove the separate or ground-mounted electric meter 
and enclosure and restore the affected area to its original condition. 
 
18. 
Rearrangement and Relocation. The permittee acknowledges that the City, in its sole 
discretion and at any time, may: (1) change any street grade, width or location; (2) add, 
remove or otherwise change any improvements in, on, under or along any street, 
sidewalk, or right of way owned by the City or any other public agency, which includes 
without limitation any sewers, storm drains, conduits, pipes, vaults, boxes, cabinets, poles 
and utility systems for gas, water, electric or telecommunications; and/or (3) perform any 
other work deemed necessary, useful or desirable by the City (collectively, “City Work”). 
The City reserves the rights to do any and all City Work without any admission on its part 
that the City would not have such rights without the express reservation in this permit. In 
the event that the City determines that any City Work will require the permittee’s facility 
to be rearranged and/or relocated, the permittee shall, at its sole cost and expense, do or 
cause to be done all things necessary to accomplish such rearrangement and/or 
relocation. If the permittee fails or refuses to either permanently or temporarily rearrange 
and/or relocate the permittee’s facility within a reasonable time after the City’s notice, the 
City may (but will not be obligated to) cause the rearrangement or relocation to be 
performed at the permittee’s sole cost and expense. The City may exercise its rights to 
rearrange or relocate the permittee’s facility without prior notice to permittee when the 
262 of 445

--- page 263 ---
City determines that the City Work is immediately necessary to protect public health or 
safety. The permittee shall reimburse the City for all costs and expenses in connection 
with such work within 10 calendar days after a written demand for reimbursement and 
reasonable documentation to support such costs. In addition, the permittee shall 
indemnify, defend and hold the City, its agents, officers, officials, employees and 
volunteers harmless from and against any Claims in connection with rearranging or 
relocating the permittee’s facility, or turning on or off any water, oil, gas, electricity or other 
utility service in connection with the permittee’s facility, except to the extent such Claims 
are caused by the sole or active negligence or willful misconduct of the City. 
 
19. 
Landscaping. The permittee shall replace any landscape features damaged or displaced 
by the construction, installation, operation, maintenance or other work performed by the 
permittee or at the permittee’s direction on or about the site. In the event that any trees 
are damaged or displaced, the permittee shall hire and pay for a licensed arborist to 
select, plant and maintain replacement landscaping in an appropriate location for the 
species. Only ISA Certified workers under the supervision of a licensed arborist shall be 
used to install the replacement tree(s). The box size and other standards for any 
replacement trees shall be subject to the City’s approval in consultation with the licensed 
arborist. The permittee shall, at all times, be responsible to maintain any replacement 
landscape features. 
 
20. 
Encroachment Permit General Conditions. The permittee shall comply with the City of 
San Mateo’s Encroachment Permit General Conditions. 
 
21. 
Insurance Requirements. Commercial general liability (or comprehensive) and property 
damage insurance indicating the City of San Mateo as an additional insured is required. 
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
i. 
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form 
CG 00 01 covering CGL on an "occurrence" basis, including products-
completed operations, personal   & advertising injury, contractual liability, 
property damage, death, bodily injury, and limited pollution liability 
endorsement, with limits no less than $5,000,000 per occurrence; 
$10,000,000 aggregate.  If a general aggregate limit applies, either the 
general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
ii. 
Limited Pollution Liability Coverage: Insurance in the amount of 
$5,000,000 per claim and in the aggregate covering third party claims for 
bodily injury, property damage or cleanup costs as required by law, where 
the pollution is caused during and by permittee’s work and for permittee’s 
products and completed operations. (This may satisfy the requirement for 
a limited pollution liability endorsement on the Commercial General 
Liability insurance policy.) 
iii. 
Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 
1), or if permittee has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned 
autos (Code 9), with limit no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury and property damage. 
iv. 
Workers' Compensation:  as required by the State of California, with 
Statutory Limits, and Employer's Liability Insurance with limit of no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease. The Workers 
Compensation policy shall be endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor 
263 of 445

--- page 264 ---
of City (and its elected and appointed officials, employees, and volunteers). 
The insurers shall agree to waive all rights of subrogation against City and 
its officials, officers, employees, and volunteers for all work performed by 
permittee and its employees, agents, and contractors. 
v. 
Professional Liability: (Applicable to all permittee’s contractors and 
subcontractors of any tier performing any professional services including 
engineers, surveyors, or consultants relating to this agreement) with limits 
of $2,000,000 per claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate. 
vi. 
Contractors’ Pollution Liability: (Applicable to all permittee’s contractors and 
subcontractors of any tier performing any removal, remediation, abatement, 
transportation or disposal of any hazardous materials and/or projects 
involving environmental hazards relating to permit) with limits of $2,000,000 
per occurrence and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.   
vii. 
“All Risk” Property Insurance: against all risks of loss or damage to any 
wireless communication facility(ies) or betterments, personal property, 
trade fixtures, equipment, and/or merchandise located in, on, at, under, 
above, or about the City’s right of way, license area, and/or City-owned 
pole(s) (including, but not limited to, loss resulting from fire, windstorm, hail, 
lightning, vandalism, malicious mischief, and such other perils ordinarily 
included in extended coverage casualty insurance policies).  Such 
insurance shall be maintained in an amount sufficient to cover not less than 
one hundred percent (100%) of the full replacement value thereof 
(whichever is greater) with no coinsurance penalty provision.  Permittee 
may self-insure this risk with prior notice to the City. 
 
 
If the permittee maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires 
and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the permittee. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, volunteers, and agents are to be 
covered as insureds on the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, 
leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the permittee; and on the COL policy with 
respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the 
permittee including materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work 
or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement 
to the permittee’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 
20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to the permit, the permittee’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, volunteers, 
and agents. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, volunteers, or agents shall be excess of the permittee’s 
insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
Notice of Cancellation 
264 of 445

--- page 265 ---
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, 
except after thirty (30) days' prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given 
to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Permittee hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation, which any 
commercial general liability, automobile liability, and worker’s compensation insurer of 
said permittee may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under 
such insurance.    Permittee agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to 
affect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not 
the City has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer. 
 
Self-lnsured Retentions 
Any self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the permittee to purchase coverage with a lower retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense 
expenses within the retention. 
 
Claims Made Policies.  If any insurance coverage required herein is written on a “claims 
made” policy:  (a) the retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the 
execution date of the permit or the beginning of the permitted project or work; (b) 
insurance must be maintained and evidence of insurance must be provided for at least 
the duration of any applicable Master License Agreement and/or the applicable permit(s)) 
and five (5) years after completion of the subject work; and (c) if coverage is canceled or 
non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made policy form with a retroactive 
date prior to the permit effective, or start of work date, permittee must purchase extended 
reporting period coverage for a minimum of five (5) years after completion of any work; 
and (d) a copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the City for 
review upon request.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best's rating of no less than 
A:VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
Permittee shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements 
or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All 
certificates and endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work 
commences.   However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work 
beginning shall not waive the permittee's obligation to provide them.  The City reserves 
the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including 
endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
 
Contractors and Subcontractors.  Permittee shall require and verify that all contractors 
and subcontractors (if any) maintain the same insurance limits as required of permittee, 
unless otherwise agreed to by the City. 
 
Special Risk or Circumstances. City, upon prior written notice to, review and written  
acceptance by permittee, reserves the right to modify these insurance requirements at 
any time, including, but not limited to, limits, based on the nature of the risk, prior 
experience, insurer, coverage, or other special circumstances. 
 
265 of 445

--- page 266 ---
22. 
Traffic Control.  Traffic control per Caltrans standards.  No street closures allowed, must 
allow through traffic at all times.  Permittee must notify City of San Mateo's Police (650) 
522-7700, Fire (650) 522-7940, and San Mateo County Communications (650) 363-4961, 
at least 24 – 48 hours in advance of lane closures or detours; and immediately upon 
removal of lane closure or detour. 
 
23. 
Traffic Control Plans (TCPs). Site-specific TCP’s are required where any of the following 
criteria are met, and shall be prepared in accordance with the “Guidelines for Submittal 
of Site-Specific TCP’s” found in the Encroachment Permit Packet: 
i. 
Any roadway that is classified as a collector or arterial. Roadway classifications 
are defined in the Circulation Element of the General Plan. A map of roadway 
classifications 
can 
be 
seen 
here: 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/Home/View/7192 and is attached 
to this document. 
ii. 
Any roadway (including local roadways) that requires full road closures or detours. 
iii. 
Any roadway with a speed limit over 25 mph. 
 
The City reserves the right to require site-specific TCP’s where deemed necessary. 
 
24. 
Underground Service Alert (USA). Forty-eight (48) hours before commencing work, the 
permittee shall contact Underground Service Alert (USA) at 1-800-227-2600 to verify 
elevations and locations of all existing utilities 
 
25. 
Private Sewer Laterals. The City of San Mateo does not mark private sewer laterals in 
the public right-of-way as part of the Underground Service Alert (USA) program. Permittee 
is to take precautions to locate and protect private sewer laterals from damage during 
construction. In the event any damage is discovered, the Permittee is required to 
immediately dig and repair the sewer lateral to restore sewer service. If new facilities are 
being installed by the boring method the Permittee is also required to video inspect any 
sewer and storm mains that are crossed by their facilities as part of this project, a copy of 
this video is to be provided to the City. 
 
The above conditions are in addition to all other standards, requirements, and conditions adopted by 
the City, all wireless facilities permits, whether approved by the City or deemed approved by the 
operation of law, shall be automatically subject to the conditions in this section. The City (or the 
appellate authority on appeal) shall have discretion to modify or amend these conditions on a case-by-
case basis as may be necessary or appropriate under the circumstances to protect public health and 
safety or allow for the proper operation of the approved facility consistent with the goals and applicable 
provisions of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. 
 
 
B. 
Standard Conditions for Section 6409 Approvals. In addition to all other conditions adopted 
by the City, all section 6409 approvals, whether approved by the City or deemed approved by 
the operation of law, shall be automatically subject to the conditions in this section. The City (or 
the appellate authority on appeal) shall have discretion to modify or amend these conditions on 
a case-by-case basis as may be necessary or appropriate under the circumstances to protect 
public health and safety or allow for the proper operation of the approved facility consistent with 
the goals and applicable provisions of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. 
 
266 of 445

--- page 267 ---
1. 
Permit Term. The City’s grant or grant by operation of law of a section 6409 approval 
constitutes a federally-mandated modification to the underlying permit or other prior 
regulatory authorization for the subject tower or base station, and will be regarded as a 
modification to the underlying approval for the subject tower or base station. The City’s 
grant or grant by operation of law of a section 6409 approval will not extend the permit 
term, if any, for any underlying permit or other underlying prior regulatory authorization. 
Accordingly, the term for a section 6409 approval shall be coterminous with the underlying 
permit or other prior regulatory authorization for the subject tower or base station. This 
condition shall not be applied or interpreted in any way that would cause the term of the 
underlying permit for the modified facility to be less than 10 years in total length. 
 
2. 
Compliance Obligations Due to Invalidation. In the event that any court of competent 
jurisdiction invalidates all or any portion of Section 6409 or any FCC rule that interprets 
Section 6409 such that federal law would not mandate approval for any section 6409 
approval(s), such approval(s) shall automatically expire one year from the effective date 
of the judicial order, unless the decision would not authorize accelerated termination of 
previously approved section 6409 approvals or the City grants an extension upon written 
request from the permittee that shows good cause for the extension, which includes 
without limitation extreme financial hardship. Notwithstanding anything in the previous 
sentence to the contrary, the City may not grant a permanent exemption or indefinite 
extension. A permittee shall not be required to remove its improvements approved under 
the invalidated section 6409 approval when it has obtained the applicable permit(s) or 
submitted an application for such permit(s) before the one-year period ends. 
 
3. 
City’s Standing Reserved. The City’s grant or grant by operation of law of a section 
6409 approval does not waive, and shall not be construed to waive, any standing by the 
City to challenge Section 6409, any FCC rules that interpret Section 6409 or any section 
6409 approval. 
 
4. 
Compliance with Approved Plans. Before the Department of Public Works issues any 
permits required to commence construction in connection with this section 6409 approval, 
the permittee must incorporate this section 6409 approval, all conditions associated with 
this section 6409 approval and any approved photo simulations into the project plans (the 
“Approved Plans”). The permittee must construct, install and operate the wireless facility 
in substantial compliance, as determined by the City, with the Approved Plans. Any 
alterations, modifications or other changes to the Approved Plans, whether requested by 
the permittee or required by other departments or public agencies with jurisdiction over 
the wireless facility, must be submitted in a written request subject to the City’s prior 
review and approval.  The City may revoke the section 6409 approval if the City finds that 
the requested alteration, modification or other change may cause a substantial change 
as that term is defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(7), as may be amended. 
 
5. 
Post-Installation Certification. Within 60 calendar days after the permittee commences 
full, unattended operations of a wireless facility approved or deemed-approved under San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10, the permittee shall provide the City with 
documentation reasonably acceptable to the City that the wireless facility has been 
installed and/or constructed in substantial compliance with the Approved Plans. Subject 
to the City’s discretion, such documentation may include, but shall not be limited to, as-
built drawings, site surveys, GIS data and site photographs. 
 
6. 
Build-Out Period. This section 6409 approval will automatically expire one (1) year from 
the approval or deemed-granted date unless the permittee obtains all other permits and 
267 of 445

--- page 268 ---
approvals required to install, construct and/or operate the approved wireless facility, 
which includes without limitation any permits or approvals required by any federal, state 
or local public agencies with jurisdiction over the subject property, the wireless facility or 
its use. The City may grant one written extension up to one (1) year when the permittee 
shows good cause to extend the limitations period in a written request for an extension 
submitted at least 30 calendar days prior to the automatic expiration date in this condition. 
 
7. 
Maintenance Obligations; Vandalism. The permittee shall keep the site, which includes 
without limitation any and all improvements, equipment, structures, access routes, fences 
and landscape features, in a neat, clean and safe condition in accordance with the 
Approved Plans and all conditions in this permit. Any concealment elements shall be kept 
in “like new” condition at all times. The permittee shall keep the site area free from all litter 
and debris at all times. The permittee, at no cost to the City, shall remove and remediate 
any graffiti or other vandalism at the site within 48 hours after the permittee receives 
notice or otherwise becomes aware that such graffiti or other vandalism occurred. The 
permittee and property owner shall maintain any and all landscape features in accordance 
with an approved landscape plan, if any, and shall replace dying or dead trees, foliage or 
other landscape elements shown on the Approved Plans within 30 calendar days after 
written notice from the City.  
 
8. 
Compliance with Laws. The permittee shall maintain compliance at all times with all 
federal, state and local statutes, regulations, orders or other rules that carry the force of 
law (“Laws”) applicable to the permittee, the subject property, the wireless facility or any 
use or activities in connection with the use authorized in this section 6409 approval, which 
includes without limitation any Laws applicable to human exposure to RF emissions. The 
permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that this obligation is intended to be 
broadly construed and that no other specific requirements in these conditions are 
intended to reduce, relieve or otherwise lessen the permittee’s obligations to maintain 
compliance with all Laws. In the event that the City fails to timely notice, prompt or enforce 
compliance with any applicable provision in the San Mateo Municipal Code, any permit, 
any permit condition or any applicable law or regulation, the applicant or permittee will not 
be relieved from its obligation to comply in all respects with all applicable provisions in the 
San Mateo Municipal Code, any permit, any permit condition or any applicable law or 
regulation. 
 
9. 
Cooperation with RF Compliance Evaluations. At all times relevant to this permit, the 
permittee and the property owner shall reasonably cooperate with efforts by the City to 
evaluate whether the wireless facility complies with all applicable FCC rules and 
regulations for human exposure to RF emissions. Such cooperation shall be at no cost to 
the City and may include, but is not limited to: (1) furnishing the City with a written affidavit 
signed by an RF engineer certifying the wireless facility’s compliance with applicable FCC 
rules and regulations; (2) providing technical data such as the frequencies in use, power 
output levels and antenna specifications, reasonably necessary to evaluate compliance 
with maximum permissible exposure levels set by the FCC; (3) allowing the City or its 
designee to have supervised access to the areas near the wireless facility for inspections 
and field measurements; and (4) promptly responding to all requests by the City or its 
designee for information and/or cooperation with respect to any of the foregoing. 
 
10. 
Adverse Impacts on Other Properties. The permittee shall use all reasonable efforts to 
avoid any and all undue or unnecessary adverse impacts on nearby properties that may 
arise from the permittee’s or its authorized personnel’s construction, installation, 
operation, modification, maintenance, repair, removal and/or other activities at the site. 
268 of 445

--- page 269 ---
The permittee shall not perform or cause others to perform any construction, installation, 
operation, modification, maintenance, repair, removal or other work that involves heavy 
equipment or machines except during normal construction hours authorized by the San 
Mateo Municipal Code. The restricted work hours in this condition will not prohibit any 
work required to prevent an actual, immediate harm to property or persons, or any work 
during an emergency declared by the City. The City may issue a stop work order for any 
activities that violates this condition. 
 
11. 
Backup Power; Generators. The permittee shall operate backup power generators only 
during (a) commercial power outages or (b) for maintenance purposes during normal 
construction hours in accordance with the San Mateo Municipal Code. The City may 
approve a temporary power source and/or generator in connection with initial 
construction, major repairs or in the event of an emergency. The permittee shall not 
operate any permanent backup generators located in the public right-of-way. 
 
12. 
Inspections; Emergencies. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the 
City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee may enter onto the site and inspect the 
improvements and equipment upon reasonable prior notice to the permittee, or at any 
time during an emergency. The City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee may, but 
will not be obligated to, enter onto the site area without prior notice to support, repair, 
disable or remove any improvements or equipment in emergencies or when such 
improvements or equipment threatens actual, imminent harm to property or persons. The 
permittee, if present, may observe the City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee 
while any such inspection or emergency access occurs. 
 
13. 
Permittee’s Contact Information. The permittee shall furnish the City with accurate and 
up-to-date contact information for a person responsible for the wireless facility, which 
includes without limitation such person’s full name, title, direct telephone number, 
facsimile number, mailing address and email address. The permittee shall keep such 
contact information up to date at all times and immediately provide the City with updated 
contact information in the event that either the responsible person or such person’s 
contact information changes. 
 
14. 
Indemnification. The permittee shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City, City 
Council and City boards, commissions, agents, officers, officials, employees and 
volunteers from any and all (1) damages, liabilities, injuries, losses, costs and expenses 
and from any and all claims, demands, law suits, writs and other actions or proceedings 
(“Claims”) brought against the City or its agents, officers, officials, employees or 
volunteers to challenge, attack, seek to modify, set aside, void or annul the City’s approval 
of this section 6409 approval, and (2) other Claims of any kind or form, whether for 
personal injury, death or property damage, that arise from or in connection with the 
permittee’s or its agents’, directors’, officers’, employees’, contractors’, subcontractors’, 
licensees’, or customers’ acts or omissions in connection with this section 6409 approval 
or the wireless facility. Permittee’s duty to defend and indemnify shall not apply to the 
extent such Claims are caused by the sole or active negligence or willful misconduct of 
the City.  In the event the City becomes aware of any Claims, the City will use best efforts 
to promptly notify the permittee and the private property owner and shall reasonably 
cooperate in the defense. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the 
City shall have the right to approve, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, 
the legal counsel providing the City’s defense, and the property owner and/or permittee 
(as applicable) shall promptly reimburse City for any costs and expenses directly and 
necessarily incurred by the City in the course of the defense. The permittee expressly 
269 of 445

--- page 270 ---
acknowledges and agrees that the permittee’s indemnification obligations under this 
condition are a material consideration that motivates the City to approve this section 6409 
approval, and that such indemnification obligations will survive the expiration or 
revocation of this section 6409 approval. 
 
15. 
Performance Bond. Before the Department of Public Works issues any encroachment 
permit and/or other ministerial permits required to commence construction in connection 
with this section 6409 approval, the permittee shall post a performance bond from a surety 
and in a form acceptable to the City in an amount reasonably necessary to cover the cost 
to remove the improvements and restore all affected areas based on a written estimate 
from a qualified contractor with experience in wireless facilities removal. The written 
estimate must include the cost to remove all equipment and other improvements, which 
includes without limitation all antennas, radios, batteries, generators, utilities, cabinets, 
mounts, brackets, hardware, cables, wires, conduits, structures, shelters, towers, poles, 
footings and foundations, whether above ground or below ground, constructed or installed 
in connection with the wireless facility, plus the cost to completely restore any areas 
affected by the removal work to a standard compliant with applicable laws. In establishing 
or adjusting the bond amount required under this condition, and in accordance with 
California Government Code § 65964(a), the City shall take into consideration any 
information provided by the permittee regarding the cost to remove the wireless facility to 
a standard compliant with applicable laws. The performance bond shall expressly survive 
the duration of the permit term to the extent required to effectuate a complete removal of 
the subject wireless facility in accordance with this condition. 
 
16. 
Recall to Approval Authority; Permit Revocation. The City may recall this section 6409 
approval for review at any time due to complaints about noncompliance with applicable 
laws or any approval conditions attached to this section 6409 approval after notice and 
an opportunity to cure the violation is provided to the permittee. If the noncompliance 
continues after notice and reasonable opportunity to cure the noncompliance, the City 
may revoke this section 6409 approval or amend these conditions as the City deems 
necessary or appropriate to correct any such noncompliance. 
 
17. 
Record Retention. The permittee must, for the duration of the permit term, maintain 
complete and accurate copies of all permits and other regulatory approvals issued in 
connection with the wireless facility, which includes without limitation this approval, the 
approved plans and photo simulations incorporated into this approval, all conditions 
associated with this approval and any ministerial permits or approvals issued in 
connection with this approval. In the event that the permittee does not maintain such 
records as required in this condition, any ambiguities or uncertainties that would be 
resolved through an inspection of the missing records will be construed against the 
permittee. The permittee may keep electronic records; provided, however, that hard 
copies or electronic records kept in the City’s regular files will control over any conflicts 
between such City-controlled copies or records and the permittee’s electronic copies, and 
complete originals will control over all other copies in any form. 
 
18. 
Undergrounded Utilities. In the event that other public utilities or cable television 
operators in the public right-of-way underground their facilities where the permittee’s 
wireless facility is located, the permittee must underground its equipment except the 
antennas and antenna supports, to the extent technically feasible. Such undergrounding 
shall occur at the permittee’s sole cost and expense except as reimbursed pursuant to 
law. In areas with existing overhead lines, new communication lines shall be “overlashed” 
with existing communication lines to the extent technically feasible. 
270 of 445

--- page 271 ---
19. 
Electric Meter Removal. In the event that the commercial electric utility provider adopts 
or changes its rules obviating the need for a separate or ground-mounted electric meter 
and enclosure, the permittee on its own initiative and at its sole cost and expense shall 
apply to the City for permission to remove the separate or ground-mounted electric meter 
and enclosure and restore the affected area to its original condition. 
 
20. 
Rearrangement and Relocation. The permittee acknowledges that the City, in its sole 
discretion and at any time, may: (1) change any street grade, width or location; (2) add, 
remove or otherwise change any improvements in, on, under or along any street owned 
by the City or any other public agency, which includes without limitation any sewers, storm 
drains, conduits, pipes, vaults, boxes, cabinets, poles and utility systems for gas, water, 
electric or telecommunications; and/or (3) perform any other work deemed necessary, 
useful or desirable by the City (collectively, “City Work”). The City reserves the rights to 
do any and all City Work without any admission on its part that the City would not have 
such rights without the express reservation in this permit. In the event that the City 
determines that any City Work will require the permittee’s facility to be rearranged and/or 
relocated, the permittee shall, at its sole cost and expense, do or cause to be done all 
things necessary to accomplish such rearrangement and/or relocation. If the permittee 
fails or refuses to either permanently or temporarily rearrange and/or relocate the 
permittee’s facility within a reasonable time after the City’s notice, the City may (but will 
not be obligated to) cause the rearrangement or relocation to be performed at the 
permittee’s sole cost and expense. The City may exercise its rights to rearrange or 
relocate the permittee’s facility without prior notice to permittee when the City determines 
that the City Work is immediately necessary to protect public health or safety. The 
permittee shall reimburse the City for all costs and expenses in connection with such work 
within 10 days after a written demand for reimbursement and reasonable documentation 
to support such costs. In addition, the permittee shall indemnify, defend and hold the City, 
its agents, officers, officials, employees and volunteers harmless from and against any 
Claims in connection with rearranging or relocating the permittee’s facility, or turning on 
or off any water, oil, gas, electricity or other utility service in connection with the 
permittee’s facility. 
 
21. 
Landscaping. The permittee shall replace any landscape features damaged or displaced 
by the construction, installation, operation, maintenance or other work performed by the 
permittee or at the permittee’s direction on or about the site. In the event that any trees 
are damaged or displaced, the permittee shall hire and pay for a licensed arborist to 
select, plant and maintain replacement landscaping in an appropriate location for the 
species. Only ISA Certified workers under the supervision of a licensed arborist shall be 
used to install the replacement tree(s). The box size and other standards for any 
replacement trees shall be subject to the City’s approval in consultation with the licensed 
arborist. The permittee shall, at all times, be responsible to maintain any replacement 
landscape features. 
 
271 of 445

--- page 272 ---
Exhibit B – Proposed Fee Schedule 
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES 
UNIT 
FEE 
XI. 
 
MISCELLANEOUS FEES 
 
 
  I. WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS  FACILITIES PERMIT 
  
  
  
 
 
1. 
 
Wireless Permits Application Fee 
 
 
Min Deposit Per Location  
 
 
$4,000.00 
  
Request to place a new facility or substantial modification of an existing facility in the public 
ROW.  This minimum deposit listed is required at the pre-application phase. The deposit will 
cover field visits, engineering review of the existing or proposed facilities, inspections during 
construction, the cost of hiring an independent consultant with specialized or expert knowledge 
in connection with wireless facilities, including, but not limited to:  permit application 
completeness and/or accuracy, compliance with RF emissions, gap in services, alternative sites 
analysis, inspection during construction, and administrative time to process the permit 
application. At the time of permit issuance, additional funds may be required to be added to the 
deposit if the deposit balance is less than estimated, as determined by the City.  Any portion 
not expended by the City is refundable.  Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off. 
  
  
 
 
2. Master License Agreement Fee 
 
Min Deposit Per New 
Agreement 
$1,000.00 
 
 
 
(Amendments charged at actual cost per hourly rate) 
 
$200/hour 
 
 
3. License Fee for City Pole (subject to 3% annual increase) 
Annual fee for each attachment to a municipality – owned structure in the public right-of-way 
Per Location 
$270/year 
 
  
4. 
 
Section 6409 Permit 
 
Min Deposit Per Location 
 
$2,500.00 
 
  
Request to modify an existing facility in the public ROW.  If modifications are deemed 
substantial, applicant shall apply for a Minor or Major Permit.  This minimum deposit listed is 
required at the pre-application phase and will cover field visits, engineering review of the 
existing or proposed facilities, inspections during construction, the cost of hiring an 
independent consultant with specialized or expert knowledge in connection with wireless 
facilities, including, but not limited to: permit application completeness and/or accuracy, 
compliance with RF emissions, gap in services, alternative sites analysis, inspections during 
construction, and administrative time to process the permit application. At the time of permit 
issuance, additional funds may be required to be added to the deposit if the deposit balance is 
less than estimated, as determined by the City.  Any portion not expended by the City is 
refundable.  Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off. 
 
 
 
 
  
5. 
 
Hourly Rate for City Labor/Services 
 
 
$200/hour 
 
272 of 445

--- page 273 ---
a city of San Mateo

rVee

WORKS puaeee Works Departement

www cityofsanmateo.org
c



--- page 274 ---
Table of Contents 
 
Chapter 1 
Background and Purpose.................................................................................... 1 
Chapter 2 
Site Location, Pole Selection, & Design Standards .............................................. 3 
Chapter 3 
Application Process and Requirements .............................................................. 7 
Chapter 4 
Installations on Streetlight Poles ....................................................................... 14 
Chapter 5 
Installations on Utility Poles .............................................................................. 21 
Chapter 6 
Installations of Freestanding Poles .................................................................... 26 
Chapter 7 
Section 6409 Approvals ..................................................................................... 35 
Chapter 8 
Non-Conforming Wireless Facilities ................................................................... 36 
 
Appendix .............................................................................................................................. 37 
App A 
Wireless Communications Facilities Permit Application 
App B 
Wireless Communications Facilities Permit Application Checklist  
App C 
Standard Conditions of Approval for Wireless Communications Facilities  
 
 
274 of 445

--- page 275 ---
List of Figures 
 
Figure 4.1 - Unacceptable Installation on Streetlight Pole 
Figure 4.2 – Acceptable Design on Streetlight Replacement Pole 
Figure 4.3 – Acceptable Design on Streetlight Foundation Replacement (Existing Pole)  
Figure 5.1 - Unacceptable Installations on Utility Poles 
Figure 5.2 – Acceptable Designs on Utility Poles 
Figure 6.1 – Freestanding Wireless Facility Spacing Radius 
Figure 6.2 – Freestanding Wireless Facility in Amenity Zone 
Figure 6.3 – Freestanding Wireless Facility Sight-Line Requirements 
Figure 6.4 – Freestanding Wireless Facility Location between Property Lines 
Figure 6.5 – Freestanding Wireless Facility in Commercial Area 
 
List of Tables 
 
Table 4.1 – Design Standards For Installations on Streetlight Poles 
Table 4.2 – Procedures For Attachments to Streetlight Poles  
Table 5.1 – Design Standards For Installations on Utility Poles 
Table 5.2 – Procedures For Attachments to Utility Poles 
Table 6.1 – Design Standards For Installations of Freestanding Poles 
Table 6.2 – Procedures For Freestanding Poles 
Table 7.1 – Procedures For Section 6409 Approvals 
 
275 of 445

--- page 276 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The purpose of this document, the Design Standards and Application Requirements, is to establish requirements 
and design standards for installing wireless communication facilities in the City of San Mateo’s right-of-way 
(ROW).  The City of San Mateo seeks to permit wireless carriers to install wireless communications facilities, 
within the public right-of-way, in order to provide cellular coverage and capacity throughout the City, while 
ensuring facilities are well-maintained and do not 
significantly detract from City streetscapes. 
 
The City does not regulate the technologies 
wireless carriers use, but it does have certain 
powers to regulate the time, place, manner and 
aesthetics of wireless communications facilities.  
These design standards and requirements are 
intended to convey design preferences and 
application requirements.   
 
However, the City recommends and prefers that wireless carriers avoid pole locations where equipment would 
be in front of architecturally significant features, or in locations where they would have visual impacts of 
significance, such as residential neighborhoods, near schools and parks. 
 
Wireless providers should be made aware of the City’s preference for installation of wireless facilities on City 
owned streetlights, due to the improved aesthetic qualities of these facilities.  Wireless providers shall work 
with the City to establish a license agreement for the use of City owned streetlights. Secondly, the City 
recommends and prefers installation in areas not zoned residential, as well as near schools or parks. Residential 
areas should be considered as the last option. 
 
These requirements are meant to provide a general overview of the procedures and requirements for 
installation of wireless communications facilities on both City owned and utility poles located within the public 
right of way.  Additional conditions, information and/or procedures may be necessary based on the 
circumstances, project scope and the location being proposed by the applicant, or as deemed necessary by the 
City.   
 
San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10, “Wireless Communications Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way” was 
adopted by City Council in 2021 (hereinafter the “Code”).  The abbreviations, phrases, terms and words used in 
these Design Standards and Application Requirements will have the same meanings assigned to them in Chapter 
17.10 of the Code. Undefined phrases, terms or words in this document will have the meanings assigned to 
them in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as may be amended from time to time, and, if not defined therein, will have their 
ordinary meanings. If there are any discrepancies between the standards and requirements in this document 
and the Code, the Code shall prevail. 
 
The applicant or its successors shall comply fully with all conditions specified in this document, or as modified 
by the Director of Public Works.  Failure to comply with any condition shall constitute grounds for revocation of 
an applicable permit or license.  In the event that radio frequency (RF) emissions for the site exceed Federal 
Communications Commission (FCC) standards, the applicant will be required to immediately cease and desist 
The purpose of this document is to 
establish requirements for 
installing wireless facilities in the 
City of San Mateo’s right-of-way. 
1 BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE   
276 of 445

--- page 277 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 2 
 
 
 
operation of the facility until such time that the violation is corrected to the satisfaction of the Director of Public 
Works. 
 
Any carrier/provider authorized by the City to operate a specific wireless communications facility installation 
may assign the operation of the facility to another carrier licensed by the California Public Utilities Commission 
(CPUC) and FCC for that radio frequency provided that such transfer is made known to the City in advance of 
such operation, and all conditions of approval for the subject installation are carried out by the new 
carrier/provider. 
 
Below are requirements to aid wireless communications providers in planning facility locations and compiling 
the necessary information to obtain a Wireless Permit as provided in San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10 
“Wireless Communications Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way”. Wireless communications providers are also 
directed to review and comply with all other requirements as provided in Chapter 17.10,  that can be found on 
the City’s website. 
 
Three different types of wireless facility infrastructure installations are permitted within San Mateo rights of 
way. These types include: 
 
1. Attachments to streetlight poles 
2. Attachments to utility poles and utility lines 
3. Freestanding wireless facility infrastructure 
 
An overview of each type is included on the following pages. 
 
 
277 of 445

--- page 278 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 3 
 
 
 
2 SITE LOCATION, POLE SELECTION, & DESIGN 
STANDARDS 
 
To aid in minimizing visual and aesthetic impacts, all wireless communications facilities shall be designed, 
installed and located based on the following design preferences and standards below. In instances where a 
facility is proposed for installation at a location or in a manner that is not the highest preference as listed below, 
the applicant shall make a factual showing that all higher preferences are technically infeasible: 
 
Site Location 
 
1. The preferred locations shall be installed in the following order from most preferred to least preferred: 
 
1) Manufacturing districts; 
2) Transportation corridor or transit-orientated development districts; 
3) Executive districts; 
4) Central business districts; 
5) Commercial districts; 
6) Agricultural and open space districts; 
7) Shoreline districts; 
8) Residential districts with multi-family residential uses; 
9) Residential districts with single-family residential uses. 
Applications that involve lesser-preferred locations may be approved so long as the applicant demonstrates by 
clear and convincing evidence in writing that any more preferred locations or structures within 500 feet from 
the proposed site would be technically infeasible. 
 
Pole Selection 
 
1. Wireless facilities should be installed on existing standard streetlights or utility poles whenever 
technically feasible.  If the application proposes a wireless facility on a new pole or structure, the 
applicant must identify all existing potential poles or support structures within 500 feet from the 
proposed site along the subject right-of-way that is available and technically feasible. The applicant must 
also demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence in writing that any of these identified existing poles 
or support structures within 500 feet from the proposed site would be technically infeasible, and/or that 
the new support structure is the only technical feasible option to the exclusion of any alternative or 
reasonable  combination of alternatives.  
 
2. If the applicant demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence in writing that the identified existing 
poles or support structures are not technically feasible, then the applicant may propose a new free-
standing pole. New free-standing poles shall be located outside of driveways and intersection sight lines. 
New free-standing poles shall be located near property corners or side property lines, and not directly 
in front of residences and businesses. 
 
278 of 445

--- page 279 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 4 
 
 
 
3. Wireless facilities shall not be located on non-standard, decorative streetlights, wooden streetlights or 
traffic signals. 
 
4. All new wireless facilities require a new encroachment permit and comply with applicable standards and 
specifications required by the City. 
 
Design Standards 
 
1. Least Obtrusive.  Proposed installations should be the least obtrusive possible in compliance with the 
City’s Design Standards, with regard to appearance, size, and location.   If installations are available that 
are less obtrusive than those allowed by the City’s wireless communications facilities ordinance, 
applicants must use those installations unless the City determines that those installations are not 
feasible. 
 
2. Pole heights shall be minimized. The maximum height of any facilities mounted on an existing utility pole 
shall not exceed 4 feet, plus (i) the minimum separation from supply lines required by CPUC General 
Order 95 (GO 95), as may be amended or superseded. Legally required lightning arresters and beacons 
shall be included when calculating the height of facilities. For wireless facilities placed on any new 
freestanding poles, the pole height, inclusive of all equipment, shall not exceed 35 feet.   
3.2. 
 
 
4.3. 
Obstruction of Views.  New wireless communications facilities installations shall not obstruct 
views from habitable living areas (such as bedrooms, balconies, living rooms) to the maximum extent 
feasible. 
 
5.4. 
Protection of Trees.  Wireless communications facilities shall not damage existing trees.  If 
pruning is required for the installation, a separate Tree Permit must be obtained from Parks and 
Recreation. 
 
6.5. 
Interference with City Facilities and Other Uses.  Proposed installations shall not cause any 
interference with:  (i) the operation of any City facilities or services, including, but not limited to, signs, 
banners, lighting, communication, parking meters, traffic signs or signals, etc.; (ii) any fire hydrants or 
water valves; (iii) access to any doors, gates, sidewalk doors, or other ingress and egress points to any 
building appurtenant to the rights-of-way; or (iv) access to any fire escape. 
 
7.6. 
Accessory Equipment.  Accessory equipment shall be located entirely on the pole in a vertical 
arrangement to the maximum extent feasible.  Accessory equipment shall not collectively exceed 17 
cubic feet in overall volume.  Accessory equipment contains associated equipment for non-antenna gear. 
 
8.7. 
Ground Mounted Equipment.  Ground mounted equipment cabinets shall not be used, to the 
maximum extent possible.  Ground mounted equipment shall not collectively exceed 17 cubic feet in 
overall volume. If utilized, ground mounted equipment shall be placed in a location that does not 
obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic and shall be located in the least conspicuous location available 
within a reasonable distance from the pole. Ground mounted equipment should be installed within an 
existing or replacement street feature including, without limitation, bus stop shelters, trash bins, 
279 of 445

--- page 280 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 5 
 
 
 
benches, kiosks, advertisement panels or other street furniture to conceal the equipment.   Ground 
mounted equipment contains associated equipment for non-antenna gear. 
 
9.8. 
Cables, Wires and Connectors.  All cables, wires and other connectors shall be routed through 
conduits within a pole whenever possible, and all external conduits, conduit attachments, cables, wires 
and other connectors must be concealed from public view to the maximum extent feasible. 
 
10.9. 
Lights.  Wireless facilities may not include exterior lights other than as may be required under 
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Federal Communications Commission (FCC), other applicable 
governmental regulations or applicable pole owner policies related to public or worker safety. All 
exterior lights permitted or required to be installed must be installed in locations and within enclosures 
that mitigates illumination impacts on other properties to the maximum extent feasible. Any lights 
associated with the electronic equipment shall be appropriately shielded from public view. Flashing 
lights shall be installed. 
 
11.10. 
Signage and Stickers. All wireless facilities must include signage that accurately identifies the 
equipment owner/operator, the owner/operator’s site name or identification number and a toll-free 
number to the owner/operator’s network operations center. Wireless facilities may not bear any other 
signage or advertisements unless expressly approved by the City, required by law or recommended 
under existing and future FCC or other United States governmental agencies for compliance with RF 
emissions regulations. RF notification signs shall be placed where appropriate, and not at pedestrian eye 
level, unless required by the FCC or other regulatory agencies.  Large repetitive warning stickers shall not 
be installed. 
 
12.11. 
Smart Meters.  Wireless facility designers shall use PG&E Smart Meters or flat-rate billing with no 
electric meter, if feasible.  
 
13.12. 
Noise.  Wireless facilities and all accessory equipment and transmission equipment must comply 
with all City noise control standards and regulations and shall not exceed, either individually or 
cumulatively, the applicable ambient noise level in the subject zoning district. The applicant shall 
incorporate appropriate noise-baffling materials and/or strategies whenever necessary to avoid any 
ambient noise from equipment reasonably likely to exceed the applicable level.  Fans shall not be utilized 
to the maximum extent possible. 
 
13. Antenna Locations.  To the maximum extent technically feasible, Aantennas shall be placed at the top of 
the pole and shall be shrouded to the maximum extent feasible. 
 
14. Shrouding. All antennas and associated cables, jumpers, wires, mounts, masts, brackets and other 
connectors and hardware shall be installed within a single shroud or radome to the maximum extent 
technically feasible. For wireless facilities on utility poles, all antennas shall be shrouded, and located at 
the top of the pole or strand-mounted, to the maximum extent technically feasible. For pole-top 
antennas, the shroud shall not exceed 2.5 times the median pole diameter and must taper down to pole. 
For side-arm antennas, the shroud shall cover the cross arm and any cables, jumpers, wires or other 
connectors between the vertical riser and the antenna. 
 
280 of 445

--- page 281 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 6 
 
 
 
15. Antenna Volume. Each individual antenna associated with a single wireless facility shall not exceed 3 
cubic feet. The cumulative volume for all antennas on a single wireless facility shall not exceed: (A) 3 
cubic feet in residential areas; or (B) 6 cubic feet in nonresidential areas. 
 
16. Horizontal Projection. Side-mounted antennas, where permitted, shall not project: (A) more than 2 feet 
from the support structure; (B) over any roadway for vehicular travel; or (C) over any abutting private 
property. If applicable laws require a side-mounted antenna to project more than 2 feet from the support 
structure, the projection shall be no greater than required for compliance with such laws. Pole-mounted 
antennas and accessory equipment should be installed in a manner that minimizes horizontal 
projections, which includes, without limitation, installing equipment within the pole or as flush to the 
pole as possible. 
 
14.  
 
15.17. 
Landscaping. All wireless facilities must include landscape features and a landscape maintenance 
plan when proposed to be placed in a landscaped area. The City may require additional landscape 
features to screen the wireless facility from public view, avoid or mitigate potential adverse impacts on 
adjacent properties or otherwise enhance the concealment. All plants proposed or required must be 
native and/or drought resistant. 
 
16.18. 
Site Security Measures. Wireless facilities may incorporate reasonable and appropriate site 
security measures, such as locks and anti-climbing devices, to prevent unauthorized access, theft or 
vandalism. All wireless facilities shall be constructed from graffiti-resistant materials. The City may 
require additional concealment elements as the approval authority finds necessary to blend the security 
measures and other improvements into the natural and/or built environment. The City shall not approve 
barbed wire, razor ribbon, electrified fences or any similar security measures. 
 
17.19. 
Backup Power Sources. Permanent backup power sources within the public rights-of-way shall 
not be utilized. 
 
18.20. 
Utilities. All cables and connectors for telephone, primary electric and other similar utilities must 
shall be routed underground to the extent feasible in conduits large enough to accommodate future 
collocated wireless facilities. To the extent feasible, undergrounded cables and wires must transition 
directly into the pole base without any external doghouse. Meters, panels, disconnect switches and 
other associated improvements must be placed in inconspicuous locations to the extent possible and 
technically feasible. The City shall not approve new overhead utility lines or service drops merely because 
compliance with the undergrounding requirements would increase the project cost. In areas with 
existing overhead lines, new communication lines shall be “overlashed” with existing communication 
lines to the extent technically feasible. Microwave or other wireless backhaul is discouraged when it 
would involve a separate and unconcealed antenna. 
 
19.21. 
Public Safety. No wireless facilities shall interfere with access to a fire hydrant, fire station, fire 
escape, water valve, underground vault, valve housing structure or any other public health or safety 
facility. No wireless facility installation, use or maintenance shall endanger or shall be reasonably likely 
to endanger the safety of persons or property. No wireless facilities shall unreasonably interfere with or 
unreasonably impede the flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic including any legally parked or stopped 
vehicle, the ingress into or egress from any residence or place of business, the use of poles, posts, traffic 
281 of 445

--- page 282 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 7 
 
 
 
signs or signals, hydrants, mailboxes, permitted sidewalk dining, permitted street furniture or other 
objects permitted at or near the location where the wireless facilities are located. 
 
20.22. 
Replacement Pole Location. All replacement poles must: (1) be located as close to the removed 
pole as possible; (2) be aligned with the other existing poles along the public rights-of-way; and (3) be 
compliant with all applicable standards and specifications identified by or required by the City. 
 
21.23. 
Compliance with Applicable Laws. All wireless facilities shall be installed and maintained in 
compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, codes or other rules, which include, at a minimum, the 
Uniform Building, National Electrical Code, and all FCC rules for human exposure to RF emissions. All 
wireless facilities and their locations shall comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act.  
 
 
 
282 of 445

--- page 283 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 8 
 
 
 
3 APPLICATION PROCESS AND REQUIREMENTS
 
 
Voluntary Informational Meeting with City Staff 
Prior to submittal of an application, applicants are encouraged to meet with City staff in order to present the 
scope, location, and types of poles utilized.  Applicants can ask questions regarding the permit application and 
checklist requirements.   This voluntary informational meeting with City staff does not cause the FCC Shot Clock 
to begin.   
 
Voluntary Informational Neighborhood Meeting  
After meeting with City staff and prior to submittal of an application, applicants are encouraged to hold a 
community meeting for a proposed wireless facility.  This voluntary neighborhood meeting does not cause the 
FCC Shot clock to begin. 
 
The purpose of the neighborhood meeting is for the applicant to explain the proposal to the surrounding 
property owners and residents, and to receive their input. This meeting should accomplish three main goals:  
 
 Establishment of dialogue between the applicant and the surrounding property owners and residents.  
 Allow for project modification early in the process based on feedback. 
 Avoid further delays due to projects that may be inconsistent with the City’s standards.  
 
As the applicant, you host and conduct the meeting; Public Works staff may be present as a resource only.  
 
Public Works staff will work with the applicant to select a date, time, and location for the neighborhood meeting 
based on the following requirements: 
 
 Meetings should be held on Monday through Thursdays starting no earlier than 6:30 p.m. 
 Meetings should be held at City Hall or conducted virtually. 
 Meetings should be 1 to 2 hours maximum. 
 After 15 minutes, if there are no attendees, the meeting may be ended. 
 
Meetings cannot be held on the following dates: 
 
 Evenings of City Council or any City Commission meetings. Please check the City’s website at 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?nid=60 
and 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?nid=192 
for 
the 
City 
Council, 
Sustainability 
and 
Infrastructure Commission, Parks and Recreation Commission, Community Relations Commission, and 
Planning Commission meeting dates. 
 Legal holidays, common religious holidays or during the week of Thanksgiving and December 15th-
January 1st. 
 
Public Works staff will work with the applicant to coordinate a public notice for the community meeting.  
283 of 445

--- page 284 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 9 
 
 
 
The applicant is encouraged to bring presentation-sized graphics of the conceptual project plans, including an 
existing and proposed site plan and exterior elevations of all sides of the proposed facility, and a PowerPoint 
presentation. A mock-up of the proposed installation is highly recommended. The applicant is encouraged to 
record the meeting to aid in developing the meeting summary.  If recorded, applicant must post a notice at the 
meeting site that indicates the meeting is being recorded.  
 
All attendees shall sign in to ensure a complete record of attendees, including City staff and all members of the 
project team. Attendees shall be asked to provide their email and/or mailing address for future notices. A 
member of the applicant’s team must be dedicated to taking detailed notes from the meeting and prepare a 
Meeting Summary.  
 
The meeting agenda generally consists of the following: 
 
 The applicant will typically open the meeting by describing the purpose of the meeting and introducing 
the team members. Public Works staff will remain throughout the meeting to answer any questions 
regarding wireless facility standards and the application process. 
 The applicant will manage the remainder of the meeting. The City recommends that the applicant’s 
PowerPoint presentation on the proposed project should include a description of the purpose of the 
installation, the way the design has responded to various aesthetic issues and important design features. 
The applicant’s presentation team shall include the following staff:  project manager, RF engineer, area 
manager, technical staff, and dedicated staff for recording meeting notes. 
 After the formal presentation, the applicant may open the discussion to attendees, being available to 
answer questions or take comments.   If questions are raised related to the application process or City 
regulations that are more appropriately answered by City staff, he or she will answer those questions. 
 Once discussion has finished, the applicant will typically close the meeting by describing the next steps 
in the process. No official action may be taken by the City at any community meeting. 
 
The City requests that the applicant submit to the City a written summary of the meeting within seven (7) 
calendar days of the meeting. The Meeting Summary should include a list of attendees, the major issues raised, 
any questions and answers discussed during the meeting. Please send the draft meeting summary and the sign-
in sheet to Public Works staff who attended the meeting for final editing. The applicant is encouraged to email 
the meeting summary to all the meeting attendees who provided an email address.  
 
Application Submittal 
The applicant shall submit a complete, duly executed permit application using the Wireless Communications 
Facilities Permit Application Form attached hereto in Appendix A, which may be updated from time to time by 
the Director. The applicant shall comply with any additional instructions or requirements provided on the 
application form. 
 
The application shall include all required materials as listed in the Wireless Communications Facilities Permit 
Application Checklist attached hereto in Appendix B. The applicant shall also comply with the Application 
Requirements-Required Materials provided in Appendix B. 
 
284 of 445

--- page 285 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 10 
 
 
 
All applications, along with any required materials and deposits, must be submitted to the City at a pre-
scheduled appointment with City Staff. The City Staff shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with 
an appointment within five (5) working days after the City Staff receives a written request.  
 
Applications Deemed Withdrawn  
To promote efficient review and timely decisions, an application will be automatically deemed withdrawn by 
the applicant when the applicant fails to tender a substantive response to City Staff within 90 calendar days 
after City Staff deems the application incomplete in a subsequent written notice to the applicant after a prior 
written notice of incompleteness has been provided. The City Staff may, in its discretion, grant a written 
extension for up to an additional 30 calendar days when the applicant submits a written request prior to the 
90th day that shows good cause to grant the extension. Delays due to circumstances outside the applicant's 
reasonable control will be considered good cause to grant the extension. 
 
Notice Requirements For Wireless Permits (Section 6409 Applications are exempt from noticing 
requirements)[SMMC 17.10.050(d)] 
Within five (5) calendar days of submitting a wireless permit application, the applicant shall provide notice by 
first class US mail to all property owners and residents within a 500’ radius of the proposed project site.  In 
addition, the notice shall be posted in a minimum of three (3) locations near the project site.  The notices at a 
minimum shall contain the following: 
 
1. A general description of the project, improvements and other equipment to be constructed or installed, 
including the proposed site location, photo simulations, samples or renderings depicting the finished 
installation in context with the surrounding natural and built environment. 
2. Identify when construction, installation, excavation or other work would begin and end. 
3. The applicant’s name and contact information as provided to the City on the application. 
4. The contact name and information for the applicant’s representative. 
5. A statement that interested parties may submit comments regarding the project within five (5) calendar 
days of the notice, to the applicant, and instructions on how to do so. 
6. Include 
a 
link 
to 
the 
City’s 
Small 
Cell 
Infrastructure 
webpage:   
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure.  Include language that, “Members of 
the public interested in receiving information  on application decisions should sign up for notifications 
on the Small Cell Infrastructure webpage.” 
7. A statement that interested parties may appeal any decision within five (5) calendar days of the Notice 
of Decision, and instructions on how to do so. 
8. A statement that, “The FCC does not allow appeals when based solely on the environmental effects from 
radio frequency emissions that are compliant with applicable FCC regulations and guidelines.” 
 
Notices shall be in English and other languages as deemed appropriate by the City. 
 
Applicant shall provide notification documentation to the City prior to approval of any permit.  Such 
documentation includes: 
 
1. A copy of the notice.  Notice shall be approved by City staff prior to mailing. 
2. Proof of notification such as an affidavit attesting that the notice was mailed to all property owners and 
residents within 500’ of the project site.  Proof shall include the method of delivery and a list of 
recipients. 
285 of 445

--- page 286 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 11 
 
 
 
3. A log of concerns, comments, questions, and/or actual responses from interested parties with 
information on the name of the persons and dates of the responses. 
Standard Conditions of Approval [SMMC 17.10.080] 
All wireless facilities, whether approved by the Director or deemed approved or deemed granted by law shall 
be automatically subject to all standard conditions of approval as provided in the Standard Conditions of 
Approval for Wireless Communications Facilities, attached hereto in Appendix C. 
 
Decision Notices to the Applicant [SMMC 17.10.070(e)] 
City staff shall provide written notice to the applicant within five (5) calendar days after acting on the application.  
If the application is denied, the notice shall include the reasons for the decision and instructions for filing an 
appeal. 
 
Notice of Decision to the Public [SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
City staff shall post notice of the decision by the City with the appeal process on the Small Cell Infrastructure 
webpage 
on 
the 
same 
date 
as 
when 
the 
decision 
notice 
is 
sent 
to 
the 
applicant.  
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure 
 
The online posted notice shall include the following: 
1. Date of the posting and date by which appeals must be filed. 
2. Location of the site. 
3. Link to application materials. 
4. Directions for filing an appeal. 
5. Appellant’s name and contact information. 
 
Members of the public, including property owners and residents within 500’ of the project site, interested in 
receiving information on decisions on applications should sign up for notifications on the Small Cell 
Infrastructure webpage.  Notices to the property owners and residents within 500’ of the project site and others 
who have requested the notice of decision from the city shall be sent expeditiously and within one business day 
from the date of the decision on the application. Notice shall be sent electronically to the extent practicable. 
 
Peer and Independent Consultant Review [SMMC 17.10.060] 
The Director may, in its discretion, select and retain an independent consultant with specialized training, 
experience and/or expertise in telecommunications issues satisfactory to the Director in connection with any 
permit application.  
 
The Director may request an independent consultant review on any issue that involves specialized or expert 
knowledge in connection with wireless facilities deployment or permit applications for wireless facilities, which 
include without limitation: (a) permit application completeness and/or accuracy; (b) pre-construction planned 
compliance with applicable regulations for human exposure to RF emissions; (c) post-construction actual 
compliance with applicable regulations for human exposure to RF emissions; (d) whether and to what extent 
any technically feasible and/or potentially available alternative sites or concealment techniques may exist; (e) 
the applicability, reliability and/or sufficiency of any information, analyses or methodologies used by the 
applicant to reach any conclusions about any issue with the City's discretion to review; and (f) any other issue 
identified by the Director that requires expert or specialized knowledge.  The Director may request that the 
independent consultant prepare written reports, testify at public meetings, hearings and/or appeals and attend 
meetings with City staff and/or the applicant. 
 
286 of 445

--- page 287 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 12 
 
 
 
In the event that the Director elects to retain an independent consultant in connection with any permit 
application, the applicant shall be responsible for the reasonable costs in connection with the services provided. 
Before the independent consultant may perform any services, the applicant shall tender to the City a deposit in 
an amount equal to the estimated cost for the services to be provided, as determined by the Director. The 
Director may request additional deposits as reasonably necessary to ensure sufficient funds are available to 
cover the reasonable costs in connection with the independent consultant's services. In the event that the 
deposit exceeds the total costs for consultant's services, the Director shall promptly return any unused funds to 
the applicant after the wireless facility has been installed and passes a final inspection by the appropriate City 
official or his or her designee. In the event that the reasonable costs for the independent consultant's services 
exceed the deposit, the Director shall invoice the applicant for the balance. The City shall not issue any permit 
to any applicant with any unpaid deposit requests or invoices. 
 
Limited Exceptions for Personal Wireless Service Facilities [SMMC 17.10.070(d)] 
In the event that an applicant claims that strict compliance with SMMC Chapter 17.10 and these Design 
Standards and Application Requirements would effectively prohibit the applicant's ability to provide personal 
wireless services, the Director may grant a limited exception from such requirements in accordance with the 
following: 
 
1.  Required Findings. The Director shall not grant any limited exception unless the applicant shows that:  
 
(A)  the proposed wireless facility qualifies as a "personal wireless service facility" as defined in 47 U.S.C. 
§ 332(c)(7)(C)(ii), as may be amended or superseded; and 
(B)  the applicant has provided the Director with a reasonable and clearly defined technical service 
objective to be achieved by the proposed wireless facility; and 
(C)  the applicant has provided the Director with a written statement that contains a detailed and fact-
specific explanation as to why the proposed wireless facility cannot be deployed in compliance with 
the applicable provisions in SMMC Chapter 17.10 and these Design Standards and Application 
Requirements; and 
(D)  the applicant has provided the Director with a meaningful comparative analysis with the factual 
reasons why all alternative locations and/or designs identified in the administrative record (whether 
suggested by the applicant, the City, public comments or any other source) are not technically 
feasible or potentially available to reasonably achieve the applicant's reasonable and clearly defined 
technical service objective to be achieved by the proposed wireless facility; and 
(E)  the applicant has demonstrated to the Director that the proposed location and design is the least 
non-compliant configuration that will reasonably achieve the applicant's reasonable and clearly 
defined technical service objective to be achieved by the proposed wireless facility, which includes 
without limitation a meaningful comparative analysis into multiple smaller or less intrusive wireless 
facilities dispersed throughout the intended service area.  
 
2.  Limitations on Exceptions. Any limited exception shall be narrowly tailored to ensure that any deviations 
from the requirements in SMMC Chapter 17.10 or the Design Standards and Application Requirements 
are no greater than necessary to avoid an effective prohibition of the applicant's personal wireless 
services. Limited exceptions shall be based on the facts and circumstances of the applicant, its 
demonstrated technical service objectives at the time the exception is granted and the proposed 
wireless facility and shall not be deemed to establish any precedent for similar deviations for the same 
or any other applicant, location or wireless facility. 
 
287 of 445

--- page 288 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 13 
 
 
 
Appeals [SMMC 17.10.070(g)] (Section 6409 Applications are exempt from appeals by the public) 
The applicant or property owners/residents within a 500 foot radius of the proposed project site who received 
notice of an application, as provided in the Code, may appeal any decision to approve or deny an application for 
a Wireless Permit.  The appeals shall be filed with the Secretary of the Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission within five (5) calendar days of the City’s Notice of Conditional Approval.  Appeals received after 
the five (5) calendar days will not be considered.  The appeal hearing shall be placed on the agenda for the next 
regular or special meeting of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, or otherwise within a time frame 
needed to comply with all applicable state or federal laws. Written notice of the hearing date shall be provided 
to the appellant as soon as practicable and at least 3 calendar days prior to the hearing. 
 
An appeal shall include the following at a minimum in order to be considered: 
 
1. Location of the site being appealed. 
2. A written statement that contains a detailed and fact-specific description of the reason for the appeal 
with reference to specific Code or Design Standard violations. 
3. Appellant’s name and contact information. 
 
Important Note:  The FCC does not allow appeals if it is based on environmental effects from RF emissions 
that comply with all applicable FCC regulations. 
 
Appeals from an approval of an application will not be permitted to the extent that the appeal is based on 
environmental effects from RF emissions that comply with all applicable FCC regulations.  The Sustainability 
and Infrastructure Commission shall review the appeal de novo, with the appellant having the burden of proof 
to establish the basis for seeking a reversal of the Director’s decision, and issue a decision at the hearing. The 
decision of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission shall be final and not subject to any further 
administrative appeals.  The decision shall be posted on the City’s webpage on the same date as the decision is 
made. 
 
Revocation of Permits or Other Authorized Use 
Any wireless permit, City pole license, or other authorized use of the public right-of-way granted under SMMC 
Chapter 17.10 may be revoked or modified for cause in accordance with the following: 
 
1. Revocation proceedings may be initiated by the Director. 
 
2. Action. The Director shall act on the proposed revocation after the time for any appeal has lapsed. 
 
3. Required Findings.  The Director may revoke or modify the permit, City pole license, or right to use, if it 
makes any of the following findings: 
 
(A) 
The permittee obtained the approval by means of fraud or misrepresentation of a material fact; 
(B) 
The permittee substantially expanded or altered the use or structure beyond what is set forth in 
the permit or substantially changed the installation’s character; 
(C) 
The use in question has ceased to exist or has been suspended or abandoned; 
(D) 
Failure to comply with any condition of a permit issued; 
(E) 
Failure to comply with SMMC Chapter 17.10 and/or the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements; 
288 of 445

--- page 289 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 14 
 
 
 
(F) 
A substantive change of law affecting a utility’s authority to occupy or use the public right-of-way 
or the City’s ability to impose regulations relating to such occupation or use; 
(G) 
A facility’s interference with a City project; 
(H) 
A facility’s interference with vehicular or pedestrian use of the public right-of-way;  
Failure to make a safe and timely restoration of the public right-of-way; or 
(I) 
For permits approved for a wireless facility on a City pole, termination of the applicable master 
license agreement or revocation of a City-owned pole license. 
 
4. Notice of Action. The Director shall issue a written determination of revocation and mail the 
determination to the permittee within ten (10) calendar days of such determination. The decision shall 
be posted on the City’s webpage on the same date as the decision is made.  
 
289 of 445

--- page 290 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 15 
 
 
 
4 INSTALLATIONS  ON STREETLIGHT POLES 
The following are design requirements for installations on streetlight poles.  
 
 
Table 4.1 – Design Standards For Installations on Streetlight Poles 
Luminaire 
• Per San Mateo standards or as designated by the Director of Public Works. 
Electric Service/Metering 
• Per PG&E’s requirements. Smart Meters or flat-rate billing, if available. 
• All new electrical conduit shall be separate and enclosed in a braided sleeve.  
• Applicant shall survey and document all loads connected to circuit involved, including any 
non-streetlight load.  
• Circuit tracing shall be completed using proper circuit tracing equipment.  
• Applicant shall conduct load analysis to evaluate loading level and voltage drop on the entire 
circuit the meter is receiving power from. Maximum voltage drop allowed for the entire 
streetlighting circuit is 3% (cumulative). 
• Calculations shall be completed by an electrical engineer.  
• Reserve at minimum 40% of circuit load capacity (not breaker rating) for City’s use.   
• Replacement of light fixtures with LEDs is allowed to free up capacity in the circuit.  LED 
fixtures shall meet City standards or as designated by the Director of Public Works. 
• Conductors shall be spliced at base of pole in pull box. If there is no existing pull box, 
installation of a new pull box will be required. 
• Grounding rod shall be located in the pull box. 
 
Communication/Backhaul 
Service 
• Applicant shall secure their own communication/backhaul arrangements independent of City 
facilities.  
• A utility encroachment permit for fiber optic installations will be required. 
 
Shroud 
• Antenna and Smart Meter shall be within a shroud, unless infeasibleto the maximum extent 
technically feasible. 
Hand Holes 
• A hand hole shall be provided at the top of the pole to maintain fiber and electrical service 
for streetlights and future attachments.  
Color 
• Equipment shall be painted, treated or finished to match existing streetlight aesthetics. 
• Paint shall be powder coated over zinc paint. 
• Equipment cabinets shall be galvanized. 
 
Structural Analysis 
• Structural analysis shall be prepared and stamped by a professionally licensed structural 
engineer.  Certification that the pole foundation and attachments meet or exceed design 
parameters shall be provided to the Public Works Department. The analysis shall comply with 
current building code standards.  The wireless facility shall be designed for a risk category IV. 
• All structural components of the pole, standard, base, equipment cabinet, couplers, anchor 
bolts, luminaires, antenna, shroud, and other attachments to be used shall be designed in 
accordance with AASHTO’s Standard Specifications for Structural Supports for Highway Signs, 
Luminaires, and Traffic Signals, TIA-222 rev G and ASCE 7-16 with IBC 2018 (or latest 
standard), plus amendment for other local conditions.  
• Any pole not meeting these requirements may not be used for a wireless facility installation 
or must be replaced. 
• Certification is required for replacement poles. 
 
Antenna 
• Antennas shall be shrouded and shall be located at the top of the pole if to the maximum 
extent technically feasible. 
290 of 445

--- page 291 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 16 
 
 
 
• Antennas shall be located at the top of the pole to the maximum extent feasible.Individual 
antennas shall not exceed 3 cubic feet; cumulative volume for all antennas shall not exceed 3 
cubic feet in residential areas or 6 cubic feet in nonresidential areas.  
 
Stickers/Signs 
• Any on-pole cabinet and ground mounted utility box should be labeled with a (1) RF warning 
sticker, background to match pole color, no larger than 4 x 6 inches. Facing to the street near 
the elevation of the antennae, (2) 4-inch by 6-inch (maximum) plate with the provider’s name, 
location identifying information, and 24-hour emergency telephone number, and (3) No 
advertising, logos or decals. 
• Existing traffic signs may be relocated to screen accessory equipment. CA MUTCD 
requirements for sign mounting height shall be met.  Equipment screened by a sign must not 
change the silhouette of the sign as viewed by motorists. 
• Pole number labels shall be installed if missing. 
Cables/Wiring 
• All cables shall be located inside the pole to the maximum extent technically feasible, 
labeled for identification and enclosed in a separate braided sleeve.  
• External conduit attachment to the pole is not permitted. 
• No wires or cables shall be visible on the exterior of the pole.  
• Splicing is permitted in the pull box at base of pole. Splicing of small wiring to streetlight wiring 
in the pole is not permitted. If the pull box is not present, a new pull box will need to be 
installed, and conduit proved and rewired.  
• Any existing conduit that is not usable shall  be replaced with new conduit.  
• Foundations without conduit will need to have new conduit added to the existing foundation, 
or a new foundation installed in accordance with these Design Standards. 
• Fuses shall be located behind the hand hole or in the pull box. 
• Existing wires in pole must be removed before any drilling or welding takes place on pole. 
Hardware 
• All mounting hardware shall be compatible with mounting surface and weather resistant.  
Disconnect Switch 
• Bottom of disconnect switch shall be mounted at a minimum of 7 feet above grade or per 
PG&E’s standards. 
Equipment Cabinet 
• Maximum dimension shall be 17 CF. 
• If required, fans shall not emit noise higher than City standards. 
• Passive louvers and/or other passive ventilation systems shall be primary means of 
temperature control. 
• Cabinets shall be located such that it meets the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and 
does not obstruct, impede, or hinder the usual pedestrian or vehicular travel way. 
• Equipment cabinet contains associated equipment for non-antenna gear. 
 
 
291 of 445

--- page 292 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 17 
 
 
 
Figure 4.1 - Unacceptable Installation on a Streetlight 
 
  
 
Antenna must include a smooth 
transition between pole and antenna 
if feasible 
Conduit, mounting bracket, and 
other hardware must be hidden or in 
a shroud 
All 
conduit, 
wires 
and 
other 
hardware shall be located internally 
within pole 
292 of 445

--- page 293 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 18 
 
 
 
Figure 4.2 – Acceptable Design on a Streetlight Replacement  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Antennas are located at the top of 
the pole and have smooth transition 
between pole and antennas  
All 
conduit, 
wires 
and 
other 
hardware are  located internally 
within pole 
Accessory equipment is located 
entirely in a cabinet at base of pole 
293 of 445

--- page 294 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 19 
 
 
 
Figure 4.3 – Acceptable Design on a Streetlight Foundation Replacement (Existing Pole)  
 
 
 
 
Antennas are located at the top of 
the pole 
Accessary equipment is hidden by 
existing signage 
294 of 445

--- page 295 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 20 
 
 
 
Table 4.2 – Procedures For Attachments to Streetlight Poles [SMMC] 
Pre-Application 
1. Master License Agreement.  Applicant executes a license agreement with the City for any City-owned poles 
in the public right-of-way.  To start the process for preparation of a license agreement, applicant shall pay 
required fee per current Comprehensive Fee Schedule. 
2. Voluntary Informational Meeting with City Staff.  Applicant may request a voluntary pre-submittal 
informational meeting with City staff to review potential locations and streamline the review process. This 
voluntary informational meeting with City Staff does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
3. Voluntary Informational Neighborhood Meeting.  Applicant is encouraged to hold a voluntary informational 
neighborhood meeting at City Hall or via Zoom to discuss the proposed project with residents and property 
owners within 500’ of the project location in order to receive feedback from interested parties. This 
voluntary neighborhood informational meeting does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
 
Application 
4. Submittal Appointment.  Applicant submits application, checklist, required materials, and deposit at a pre-
scheduled appointment. City Staff shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with an 
appointment within five (5) working days after the City Staff receives a written request.  
• 
Shot Clocks Starts 
5. Notice Requirements.  Within five (5) calendar days of application submittal, applicant provides notice  by 
first class United States mail to all property owners and residents within a 500’ radius of proposed project 
and posts in at least three locations near the project site. 
6. City Review.  The City shall have ten (10) calendar days from the submission of the application to determine 
whether the application is incomplete.  If the City deems that the application is complete, it shall review 
the application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
7. Power Walks.  Applicant conducts power walks with City staff to determine point of electrical service 
connection.  This shall be shown on the plans when applicant resubmits. 
8. Applicant Resubmittal.  If the City deems that the application is incomplete, the applicant responds to 
corrections and resubmits materials. 
• 
Shot Clocks Restarts 
9. Subsequent City Reviews and Resubmittals.  City staff reviews and shall have ten (10) calendar days from 
the re-submission to determine whether the application is incomplete. If the City deems that the 
application is complete, it shall review the application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
10. Conditional Approval.  City staff may approve the application when all findings are met as provided in the 
Code.  If findings are not met, application will be denied and applicant will need to resubmit.  
11. Notice of Decision.  A decision notice is sent to the applicant within five (5) calendar days after the City acts 
on an application. City staff shall post the Notice of Decision with appeal process on the Small Cell 
Infrastructure 
webpage 
when 
the 
decision 
notice 
is 
sent 
to 
the 
applicant.  
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure 
[SMMC 17.10.070(e)] [SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
12. Limited Exceptions.  If the applicant claims that strict compliance with the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements would effectively prohibit the applicant's ability to provide personal wireless services, City 
staff may grant a limited exception if required findings are met. 
Appeals 
13. Appeals.  The applicant or any person who received notice of an application as provided in the Code may 
appeal any decision to approve or deny a Wireless Permit.  Appeals must be filed with the Sustainability & 
Infrastructure Commission (S&IC) Secretary within five (5) calendar days of the Notice of Conditional 
Approval.  If no appeals, project may be approved. If an appeal is received, staff will schedule a public 
hearing with S&IC to consider and act on the application in accordance with the required findings. If the 
appeal is denied by the S&IC, the project may be approved. If the appeal is approved by the S&IC, the 
project is denied and the applicant will need to resubmit. 
[SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
Building Permit 
14. Building Permit.  Applicant applies for a Building Permit with the Building Division for PG&E release.  A 
separate fee shall apply. 
Encroachment 
Permit 
15. Encroachment Permit.  Applicant applies for an Encroachment Permit with the Public Works Department.  
A separate fee shall apply as provided in the City’s Fee Schedule.  Encroachment permit shall include traffic 
control plans and insurance.  Prior to construction, applicant shall contact Public Works for an inspection. 
16. Performance Bond.  Applicant shall provide Public Works with a Performance Bond in compliance with COA 
A.13 and B.15. 
295 of 445

--- page 296 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 21 
 
 
 
Post 
Application 
17. Certification.  Applicant shall provide Public Works Post-Installation Certification in compliance with COA 
A.3 and B.5. 
18. Contact Information.  Applicant shall provide up-to-date contact information to Public Works in compliance 
with COA A.11 and B.13. 
296 of 445

--- page 297 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 22 
 
 
 
5 INSTALLATIONS ON UTILITY POLES 
The following are general specifications for installations on utility poles.  
 
Table 5.1 – Design Standards For Installations on Utility Poles 
 
 
Electric Service/Metering 
• Per PG&E’s requirements. Smart Meters or flat-rate billing, if available. 
• All new electrical conduit shall be separate.  
 
Communication/Backhaul 
Service 
• Applicant shall secure their own communication/backhaul arrangements 
independent of City facilities.  
• A utility encroachment permit for fiber optic installations will be required. 
 
Shroud 
• Antenna and Smart Meter shall be within a shroud, unless infeasibleto the 
maximum extent technically feasible. 
 
Color 
• Equipment shall be painted, treated or finished to match existing utility pole 
aesthetics. 
• All electrical equipment, boxes, and other appurtenances shall have an 
appropriate National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) rating for 
outdoor uses and provide adequate protection.  
• Paint shall be powder coated over zinc paint in accordance with NEMA standards. 
• Equipment cabinets shall be galvanized in accordance with NEMA standards. 
 
Pole Selection Site Analysis 
• If the applicant proposes a wireless facility on a new utility pole, the applicant must 
first identify all existing potential poles or support structures within 500 feet from 
the proposed site along the subject right-of-way that is available and technically 
feasible. The applicant must also demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence in 
writing that any of these identified existing poles or support structures within 500 
feet from the proposed site would be technically infeasible. 
 
Antenna 
• Antennas shall be shrouded, and located at the top of the pole or strand-
mounted, to the maximum extent technically if feasible. 
• Antennas shall be located at the top of the pole or strand-mounted to the 
maximum extent feasible.Individual antennas shall not exceed 3 cubic feet; 
cumulative volume for all antennas shall not exceed 3 cubic feet in residential 
areas or 6 cubic feet in nonresidential areas. 
 
Stickers/Signs 
• Any on-pole cabinet and ground mounted utility box should be labeled with (1)  a 
RF warning sticker, background to match pole color, no larger than 4 x 6 inches. 
Facing to the street near the elevation of the antennae, (2) 4-inch by 6-inch 
(maximum) plate with the provider’s name, location identifying information, and 
24-hour emergency telephone number, and (3) No advertising, logos or decals. 
• Existing traffic signs may be relocated to screen accessory equipment. CA MUTCD 
requirements for sign mounting height shall be met.  Equipment screened by a 
sign must not change the silhouette of the sign as viewed by motorists. 
• Pole number labels shall be installed if missing. 
 
297 of 445

--- page 298 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 23 
 
 
 
Cables/Wiring 
• To the maximum extent technically feasible, Aall cables shall be located inside a 
conduit painted to match the pole.  
• No wires or cables shall be visible on the exterior of the conduit to the maximum 
extent technically feasible. 
 
Hardware 
• All mounting hardware shall be compatible with mounting surface and weather 
resistant.  
 
Disconnect Switch 
• Bottom of disconnect switch shall be mounted at a minimum of 7 feet above grade 
or per PG&E’s standards. 
 
Equipment Cabinet 
• Maximum dimension shall be 17 CF. 
• If required, fans shall not emit noise higher than City standards. 
• Passive louvers and/or other passive ventilation systems shall be primary means 
of temperature control. 
• Cabinets shall be located such that it meets the Americans with Disabilities Act of 
1990 and does not obstruct, impede, or hinder the usual pedestrian or vehicular 
travel way. 
• Equipment cabinets contains associated equipment for non-antenna gear. 
 
Safety Zones 
• A safety zone is required per the latest CPUC GO 95 
 
Pole Owner 
• Applicant shall provide written authorization from the pole owner. 
• Authorization shall indicate that the pole is structurally sound for additional loads. 
 
 
 
298 of 445

--- page 299 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 24 
 
 
 
Figure 5.1 - Unacceptable Installations on Utility Poles 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accessary equipment is not painted 
to match the wood pole 
Wires are not in a conduit 
Abrupt 
transition 
from 
pole 
to 
antenna 
299 of 445

--- page 300 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 25 
 
 
 
Figure 5.2 – Acceptable Designs on Utility Poles 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strand mounted wireless facility 
Wiring is located in a conduit 
Accessary equipment is painted to 
match the wood pole and shrouded 
300 of 445

--- page 301 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 26 
 
 
 
Table 5.2 – Procedures For Attachments to Utility Poles [SMMC] 
Pre-Application 
1. Voluntary Informational Meeting with City Staff.  Applicant may request a voluntary pre-submittal 
informational meeting with City staff to review potential locations and streamline the review process. This 
voluntary informational meeting does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
2. Voluntary Informational Neighborhood Meeting.  Applicant is encouraged to hold a voluntary informational 
neighborhood meeting at City Hall or via Zoom to discuss the proposed project with residents and property 
owners within a 500’ radius of the project location in order to receive feedback from interested parties. This 
voluntary neighborhood meeting does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
 
Application 
3. Submittal Appointment.  Applicant submits Application, Checklist, Required Materials, and Deposit at a pre-
scheduled appointment. City staff shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with an appointment 
within five (5) calendar days after City Staff receives a written request. 
• 
Shot Clocks Starts 
4. Notice Requirements.  Within five (5) calendar days of application submittal, applicant provides  notice  by 
first class United States mail to all property owners and residents within 500’ of proposed project and posts 
in at least three locations near the site. 
5. City Review.  The City shall have ten (10) calendar days from the submission of the application to determine 
whether the application is incomplete. If the City deems that the application is complete, it shall review the 
application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
6. Applicant Resubmittal.  If the City deems that the application is incomplete, the applicant responds to 
corrections and resubmits materials. 
• 
Shot Clocks Restarts 
7. Subsequent City Reviews and Resubmittals.  City staff reviews and shall have ten (10) calendar days from 
the re-submission to determine whether the application is incomplete. If the city deems that the application 
is complete, it shall review the application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
8. Conditional Approval.  City staff may approve the application when all findings are met as provided in the 
Code.  If findings are not met, application will be denied and applicant will need to resubmit.  
9. Notice of Decision.  A decision notice is sent to the applicant within five (5) calendar days after the City acts 
on an application. City staff shall post the Notice of Decision with appeal process on the Small Cell 
Infrastructure 
webpage 
when 
the 
decision 
notice 
is 
sent 
to 
the 
applicant.  
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure 
[SMMC 17.10.070(e)] [SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
10. Limited Exceptions.  If the applicant claims that strict compliance with the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements would effectively prohibit the applicant’s ability to provide personal wireless services, City 
staff may grant a limited exception if required findings are met. 
 
Appeals 
11. Appeals.  The applicant or any person who received notice of an application as provided in the Code may 
appeal any decision to approve or deny a Wireless Permit.  Appeals must be filed with Sustainability & 
Infrastructure Commission (S&IC) Secretary within five (5) calendar days of the Notice of Conditional 
Approval.   If no appeals, the project may be approved. If an appeal is received, staff will schedule a public 
hearing with S&IC to consider and act on the application in accordance with the required findings. If the 
appeal is denied by the S&IC, the project may be approved. If the appeal is approved by the S&IC, the project 
is denied and the applicant will need to resubmit. 
[SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
Encroachment 
Permit 
12. Encroachment Permit.  Applicant applies for an Encroachment Permit with the Public Works Department.  A 
separate fee shall apply as provided in the City’s Fee Schedule.  Encroachment permit shall include traffic 
control plans and insurance.  Prior to construction, applicant shall contact Public Works for an inspection. 
13. Performance Bond.  Applicant shall provide Public Works with a Performance Bond in compliance with COA 
A.13 and B.15. 
Post 
Application 
14. Certification.  Applicant shall provide Public Works Post-Installation Certification in compliance with COA A.3 
and B.5. 
15. Contact Information.  Applicant shall provide up-to-date contact information to Public Works in compliance 
with COA A.11 and B.13. 
301 of 445

--- page 302 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 27 
 
 
 
6 INSTALLATIONS OF FREESTANDING POLES 
The following are general specifications for the installations of wireless facilities on new privately-owned 
freestanding poles.  
 
Table 6.1 – Design Standards for Installations of Freestanding Poles 
Ownership of Pole 
• Freestanding poles shall not be owned by the City and shall be owned by the 
applicant.  
  
Luminaire 
• Per San Mateo standards or as designated by the Director of Public Works. 
 
Electrical Service/Metering 
• Per PG&E’s requirements. Smart Meters or flat-rate billing, if available. 
• Conductors shall be spliced at base of pole in pull box. If there is no existing pull box, 
installation of a new pull box will be required. 
• Grounding rod shall be located in the pull box. 
• Tie into an existing City electrical circuit is not allowed.  
 
Pole Type 
• Round, straight, galvanized steel. 
• Pole bases shall be sized to handle the listed equipment and all other 
equipment required by the owner of the freestanding pole. 
 
Shroud/Cover 
 
• All hardware shall be hidden. Only one equipment shroud, containing all required 
wireless facility equipment, shall be installed per pole. Anchor bolts shall either be 
hidden from view, preferred, or treated and painted to match the pole color. 
 
Color 
• Pole shall be galvanized in accordance with AASHTO M 111. 
• Equipment shall be painted to match existing pole aesthetics, paint shall be powder 
coated over zinc paint. Equipment cabinets shall still be galvanized. 
 
Pole Height 
• The pole height inclusive of all equipment shall not exceed 35 feet. 
 
Structural Analysis 
• 
Structural analysis shall be prepared and stamped by a professionally licensed 
structural engineer.  Certification that the pole foundation and attachments meet or 
exceed design parameters shall be provided to the Public Works Department. The 
analysis shall comply with current building code standards.  The wireless facility shall 
be designed for a risk category IV. 
• 
All structural components of the pole, standard, base, equipment cabinet, couplers, 
anchor bolts, luminaires, antenna, shroud, and other attachments to be used shall 
be designed in accordance with AASHTO’s Standard Specifications for Structural 
Supports for Highway Signs, Luminaires, and Traffic Signals, TIA-222 rev G and ASCE 
7-16 with IBC 2018 (or latest standard), plus amendment for other local conditions. 
Pole Selection Site Analysis 
• 
If the applicant proposes a wireless facility on a new freestanding pole, the 
applicant must first identify all existing potential poles or support structures within 
500 feet from the proposed site along the subject right-of-way that is available and 
technically feasible. The applicant must also demonstrate by clear and convincing 
evidence in writing that any of these identified existing poles or support structures 
within 500 feet from the proposed site would be technically infeasible.  
302 of 445

--- page 303 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 28 
 
 
 
Conduits Sweeps 
• Eight (8) 2” PVC conduit sweeps shall be required. Conduit shall accommodate 
wireless facility carrier electrical and fiber with up to four (4) spare sweeps for future 
service. 
Antenna 
• The top of the antenna shall be no higher than 48 in. above the top of the pole. 
• Antennas shall be shrouded to the maximum extent technicallyif feasible.   
• A tapered transition between the pole and antenna shall be included if feasible. 
• Antennas shall be located at the top of the pole to the maximum extent technically 
feasible. 
Stickers/Signs 
• Any on-pole cabinet and ground mounted utility box should be labeled with a (1) RF 
warning sticker, background to match pole color, no larger than 4 x 6 inches. Facing 
to the street near the elevation of the antennae, (2) 4-inch by 6-inch (maximum) plate 
with the provider’s name, location identifying information, and 24-hour emergency 
telephone number, and (3) No advertising, logos or decals. 
• Existing traffic signs may be relocated to screen accessory equipment. CA MUTCD 
requirements for sign mounting height shall be met.  Equipment screened by a sign 
must not change the silhouette of the sign as viewed by motorists. 
• A pole number label shall be installed. 
Hardware 
• All mounting hardware shall be compatible with mounting surface and weather 
resistant.  
Disconnect Switch 
• Bottom of disconnect switch shall be mounted at a minimum of 7 feet above grade 
or per PG&E’s standards. 
Equipment Cabinet 
• All equipment shall be located internal to the equipment cabinet or 
recessed as much as possible in the equipment cabinet. 
• All equipment shall be mounted per the Owner’s requirements.  
Removal of Freestanding 
Poles 
• Poles shall be promptly removed under a separate encroachment permit once 
applicant is no longer using the pole to actively provide telecommunications service. 
303 of 445

--- page 304 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 29 
 
 
 
Placement Requirements 
 
All freestanding wireless facility poles shall be privately owned and must be permitted by the City of San Mateo. 
Freestanding poles shall not be approved except as provided in these Design Standards and Application 
Requirements. Freestanding poles shall be placed in accordance with the following requirements: 
 
1. In a manner that does not impede, obstruct, or hinder pedestrian or vehicular travel. 
 
2. So as not to be located along the frontage of a historic building, deemed historic on a federal, state, or 
local level. 
 
3. So as not to significantly create a new obstruction to property sight lines, when reasonably feasible. 
 
4. At the intersection of property lines, or along secondary property street facing. 
 
5. Within the street amenity zone whenever possible. 
 
6. In alignment with existing trees, utility poles, and streetlights. 
 
7. Equal distance between trees when possible, with a minimum of 15 feet separation such that no 
proposed disturbance shall occur within the critical root zone of any tree. 
 
8. With appropriate clearance from existing utilities. 
 
9. Outside of the 20-foot equipment clear zone (for base cabinets less than 18-inches in diameter) or 30-
foot clear sight triangle (for base cabinets equal to or greater than 18-inches in diameter) at intersection 
corners as shown in Figure 5-7. 
 
10. 10 feet away from the triangle extension of an alley way flare. 
 
11. Shall not be located within 100 feet of the apron of a fire station or other adjacent emergency service 
facility. 
 
12. No closer than 250 feet away, radially, from another privately-owned freestanding wireless facility. 
 
13. Avoid, when reasonably feasible, placement in residential areas, near schools, and parks. 
 
 
304 of 445

--- page 305 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 30 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6.1 – Freestanding Wireless Facility Spacing Radius 
 
 
 
 
Freestanding poles shall be located 
a minimum of 250 feet from other 
freestanding poles 
Existing streetlights and utility pole 
locations do not affect the placement 
of freestanding poles.  Minimum 250 
feet does not apply. 
305 of 445

--- page 306 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 31 
 
 
 
Figure 6.2 – Freestanding Wireless Facility in Amenity Zone 
 
 
 
Freestanding wireless facilities shall be located such that they in no way impede, obstruct, or hinder the usual 
pedestrian or vehicular travel, affect public safety, obstruct the legal access to or use of the public ROW, violate 
applicable law, violate or conflict with the City’s separate public ROW design standards, specifications, or design 
district requirements, violate the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or in any way create a risk to 
public health, safety, or welfare. Free standing wireless facilities shall be located within the ROW and off set 
from the sidewalk as shown in Figure 5.3 
 
Figure 6.3 – Freestanding Wireless Facility Sight-Line Requirements 
 
         
 
 
 
306 of 445

--- page 307 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 32 
 
 
 
Freestanding wireless facilities shall be located at intersecting property lines as much as possible. Whenever 
possible, the freestanding wireless facilities shall be located on the secondary street. Do not locate wireless 
facilities in clear sight triangle.  Wireless facilities shall also be located a minimum of 15 feet away from trees to 
prevent disturbance within the critical root zone of any tree. The wireless facilities shall not be installed between 
the perpendicular extension of the primary street-facing wall plane of any single or two-family residence as 
shown in Figure 5-4. 
 
Figure 6.4 – Freestanding Wireless facility Location between Property Lines 
307 of 445

--- page 308 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 33 
 
 
 
Figure 6.5 – Freestanding Wireless Facility in Commercial Area 
 
 
When located adjacent to a commercial establishment, such as a shop or restaurant, care should be taken to 
locate the wireless facility such that it does not negatively impact the business. More specifically, wireless 
facilities shall not be located in-front of store front windows, primary walkways, primary entrances or exits, or 
in such a way that it would impede a delivery to the building. Wireless facilities should be located between 
properties as much as possible as shown above. Wireless facilities shall match the architecture of the 
surrounding neighborhood.  The City shall have the authority to mandate the color and other aesthetics of 
wireless facility installations consistent with the City’s design preferences and the requirements in San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. 
 
 
 
308 of 445

--- page 309 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 34 
 
 
 
Table 6.2 – Procedures For Freestanding Poles [SMMC] 
Pre-Application 
1. Voluntary Informational Meeting with City Staff.  Applicant may request a voluntary pre-submittal 
informational meeting with City staff to review potential locations and streamline the review process.  This 
meeting is highly recommended in order to identify acceptable designs.  This voluntary informational 
meeting with City staff does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
2. Voluntary Informational Neighborhood Meeting.  Applicant is encouraged to hold a voluntary 
neighborhood meeting at City Hall or via Zoom to discuss the proposed project with residents and property 
owners within a 500’ radius of the project location in order to receive feedback from interested parties.  
This meeting is highly recommended for new freestanding poles. This voluntary neighborhood meeting 
does not cause the FCC Shot clock to begin. 
Application 
3. Submittal Appointment.  Applicant submits Application, Checklist, Required Materials, and Deposit at a pre-
scheduled appointment. City staff shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with an appointment 
within five (5) working days after City staff receives a written request. 
 
• 
Shot Clocks Starts 
4. Notice Requirements.  Within five (5) calendar days of application submittal, applicant provides notice by 
first class United States mail to all property owners and residents within 500’ of proposed project and posts 
in at least three locations near the site. 
5. City Review.  The City shall have ten (10) calendar days from the submission of the application to determine 
whether the application is incomplete. If the City deems that the application is complete, it shall review the 
application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
6. Power Walks.  Applicant conducts power walks with City staff to determine point of electrical service 
connection.  This shall be shown on the plans when applicant resubmits. 
7. Applicant Resubmittal.  If the City deems that the application is incomplete, the applicant responds to 
corrections and resubmits materials. 
• 
Shot Clocks Restarts 
8. Subsequent City Reviews and Resubmittals.  City staff reviews and shall have ten (10) calendar days from 
the re-submission to determine whether the application is incomplete. If the City deems that the 
application is complete, it shall review the application in accordance with the FCC Shot Clock limits. 
9. Conditional Approval.  City staff may approve the application when all findings are met as provided in the 
Code.  If findings are not met, application will be denied and applicant will need to resubmit.  
10. Notice of Decision.  A decision notice is sent to the applicant within five (5) calendar days after the City acts 
on an application. City staff shall post notice of conditional approval with appeal process on the Small Cell 
Infrastructure 
webpage 
when 
the 
decision 
notice 
is 
sent 
to 
the 
applicant.  
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure 
[SMMC 17.10.070(e)] [SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
Limited Exceptions.  If the applicant claims that strict compliance with the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements would effectively prohibit the applicant’s ability to provide personal wireless services, City 
staff may grant a limited exception if required findings are met. 
 
Appeals 
11. Appeals.  The applicant or any person who received notice of an application as provided in the Code may 
appeal any decision to approve or deny a Wireless Permit.  Appeals must be filed with Sustainability & 
Infrastructure Commission (S&IC) Secretary within five (5) calendar days following the decision.  If no 
appeals, the project may be approved. If an appeal is received, staff will schedule a public hearing with S&IC 
to consider and act on the application in accordance with the required findings. If the appeal is denied by 
the S&IC, the project may be approved. If the appeal is approved by the S&IC, the project is denied and the 
applicant will need to resubmit. 
[SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
 
 
Building Permit 
12. Building Permit.  Applicant applies for a Building Permit with the Building Division for PG&E release.  A 
separate fee shall apply. 
 
309 of 445

--- page 310 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 35 
 
 
 
Encroachment 
Permit 
13. Encroachment Permit.  Applicant applies for an Encroachment Permit with the Public Works Department.  
A separate fee shall apply as provided in the City’s Fee Schedule.  Encroachment permit shall include traffic 
control plans and insurance.  Prior to construction, applicant shall contact Public Works for an inspection. 
14. Performance Bond.  Applicant shall provide Public Works with a Performance Bond in compliance with COA 
A.13 and B.15. 
Post 
Application 
15. Certification.  Applicant shall provide Public Works Post-Installation Certification in compliance with COA 
A.3 and B.5. 
16. Contact Information.  Applicant shall provide up-to-date contact information to Public Works in compliance 
with COA A.11 and B.13. 
 
 
 
310 of 445

--- page 311 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 36 
 
 
 
7 SECTION 6409 APPROVALS 
 
Section 6409 Approvals shall comply with SMMC 17.10.110 and all design standards and application 
requirements in this document.   
 
Table 7.1 – Procedures For Section 6409 Approvals [SMMC] 
Pre-Application 
1. Voluntary Information Meeting with City Staff.  Applicant may request a voluntary pre-submittal 
informational meeting with the City staff to review proposed modifications to the existing facility and 
streamline the review process.  This meeting is highly recommended in order to identify acceptable designs.  
This voluntary informational meeting does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
2. 
Voluntary Informational Neighborhood Meeting.  Applicant is encouraged to hold a voluntary informational 
neighborhood meeting at City Hall or via Zoom to discuss the proposed project with residents and property 
owners within 500’ of the project location in order to receive feedback from interested parties. This 
voluntary informational neighborhood meeting does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin.  
Application 
3. Submittal Appointment.  Applicant submits Application, Checklist, Required Materials, and Deposit at a pre-
scheduled appointment. City staff shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with an appointment 
within five (5) working days after City staff receives a written request. Alternative sites analysis is not 
required for Section 6409 approvals.  A Section 6409 Evaluation indicating whether the proposed 
modification is an eligible facilities request that complies with the FCC is required. 
• 
Shot Clocks Starts 
4. City Review.  The City shall have ten (10) calendar days from the submission of the application to determine 
whether the application is incomplete. If the City deems that the application is complete, it shall review the 
application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits.  
5. Applicant Resubmittal.  If the City deems that the application is incomplete, the applicant responds to 
corrections and resubmits materials. 
• 
Shot Clocks Restarts 
6. Subsequent City Reviews and Resubmittals.  City staff reviews and shall have ten (10) calendar days from 
the re-submission to determine whether the application is incomplete. If the city deems that the application 
is complete, it shall review the application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
7. Conditional Approval.  City staff may approve the application when all findings are met as provided in the 
Code.  If findings are not met, application will be denied and applicant will need to resubmit.  
8. 
Notice of Decision.  A decision notice is sent to the applicant within five (5) calendar days after the City acts 
on an application. City staff shall post the Notice of  Decision on the Small Cell Infrastructure webpage when 
the decision notice is sent to the applicant. https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure 
[SMMC 17.10.070(e)] [SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
9. Limited Exceptions.  If the applicant claims that strict compliance with the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements would effectively prohibit the applicant’s ability to provide personal wireless services, City 
staff may grant a limited exception if required findings are met. 
Appeals 
10. Appeals.  The applicant only (not the public) may appeal any decision to deny a Wireless Permit for 6409.  
Appeals must be filed with the Director of Public Works within five (5) calendar days of the Notice of 
Decision.  If the appeal is approved by the Director of Public Works, the project is denied and the applicant 
will need to resubmit. 
[SMMC 17.10.110(e)] 
Encroachment 
Permit 
11. Encroachment Permit.  Applicant applies for an Encroachment Permit with the Public Works Department.  
A separate fee shall apply as provided in the City’s Fee Schedule.  Encroachment permit shall include traffic 
control plans and insurance.  Prior to construction, applicant shall contact Public Works for an inspection. 
12. Performance Bond.  Applicant shall provide Public Works with a Performance Bond in compliance with COA 
A.13 and B.15. 
Post 
Application 
13. Certification.  Applicant shall provide Public Works Post-Installation Certification in compliance with COA 
A.3 and B.5. 
14. Contact Information.  Applicant shall provide up-to-date contact information to Public Works in compliance 
with COA A.11 and B.13. 
311 of 445

--- page 312 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 37 
 
 
 
8 NON-CONFORMING WIRELESS FACILITIES 
Any non-conforming wireless facilities in existence at the time these Design Standards and Application 
Requirements become effective shall be brought into conformance with the current Design Standards within 
ten (10) years upon receiving written notice from the City, or otherwise in accordance with applicable law. 
 
Applicants are not only required to comply with these Design Standards and Application Requirements during 
the initial application, but are also required to continue to monitor compliance with application Design 
Standards in the future in accordance with applicable law. 
312 of 445

--- page 313 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 38 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 
 
313 of 445

--- page 314 ---
Appendix A:  Wireless Communications Facilities 
Permit Application 
314 of 445

--- page 315 ---
Public Works Department 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
pweng@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7300 
 
Engineering Division 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
 
  
 
Revised: March 2021 
 
 
Wireless Communications Facilities  
Permit Application 
 
INSTRUCTIONS:  
Prior to submittal of this Application, the Application Checklist and all other 
required materials, a meeting with staff is strongly encouraged. This voluntary 
informational meeting with City staff does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to 
begin.    
 
City staff may deem the application incomplete if the applicant fails to include 
any required information or materials. Applications shall comply with SMMC 
17.10 and the Design Standards and Application Requirements. 
 
Applicants may submit applications by appointment only. Please contact the 
Public Works Department for an appointment. 
 
Applicant: 
Name: ______________________________________________________ 
Company: ___________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________ 
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________ 
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________ 
Authorized Representative: 
Name: ___________________________________________________________ 
Company: ________________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ___________________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: ____________________________________________________ 
Phone: ____________________________ Fax: __________________________ 
E-mail:  __________________________________________________________ 
Pole Owner: 
Name: ______________________________________________________ 
Company: ___________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________ 
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________ 
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________ 
Pole Owner’s Signature: 
_________________________________________________________________ 
Printed Name: _________________________________ Date: _______________ 
Applicant’s Signature: (if different from Property Owner) 
_________________________________________________________________ 
Printed Name: _________________________________ Date: _______________ 
Proposed Site Location and Description: 
Proposed Project Address: ________________________________________________________      Pole Number a:_____________________________________ 
Zoning District (for ROW, provide nearest zoning district): ________________________________     a If in the ROW, provide the pole number for the streetlight or pole. 
Latitude/Longitude of Location: __________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
Construction Value ($)/Project Description:   _______________________________________________________________________________________________ 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
Applicant’s Request: 
□  WIRELESS PERMIT         □  SECTION 6409 APPROVAL            □   OTHER __________________________________________________________________ 
STAFF USE ONLY 
Applicable Shot Clock Period (for informational purposes only):        □   60 days       □  90 days        □   OTHER: __________ 
Pre-App Submittal Meeting ________________________________________ 
Neighborhood Meeting ____________________________________________ 
Application Submittal _____________________________________________ 
 
Application Deemed Complete _____________________________________ 
Shot Clock Expiration _____________________________________________ 
Conditionally Approved ___________________________________________ 
Appeal _________________________________________________________ 
315 of 445

--- page 316 ---
Appendix B:  Wireless Communications Facilities 
Permit Application Checklist 
316 of 445

--- page 317 ---
Public Works Department 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
pweng@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7300 
 
Engineering Division 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
 
 
 
Revised: March 2021 
 
 
Wireless Communications Facilities 
Permit Application Checklist 
 
INSTRUCTIONS:  
Prior to submittal of this Application Checklist, Application and all other 
required materials, a meeting with City staff is strongly encouraged.  The City 
also recommends applicant holds a voluntary neighborhood meeting. These 
voluntary meetings shall not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin.    
 
City staff may deem the application incomplete if the applicant fails to include 
any required information or materials. Applications shall comply with SMMC 
17.10 and Design Standards and Application Requirements. 
 
All starred (*) items in the checklist below are not required for a Section 
6409 Approval. 
 
Applicants may submit applications by appointment only. Please contact the 
Public Works Department for an appointment. 
 
Applicant: 
Name: ______________________________________________________ 
Company: ___________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________ 
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________ 
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________ 
Proposed Site Location and Description: 
Proposed Project Address: ___________________________________________ 
Project Description: _________________________________________________ 
Pole Number a:_____________________________________________________ 
a If in the ROW, provide the pole number for the streetlight or pole. 
Applicant’s Request: 
□  WIRELESS PERMIT      □  SECTION 6409 APPROVAL        
□  OTHER(describe request)       __________________________________ 
 
APPLICATION CHECKLIST – REQUIRED MATERIALS 
 
 
  APPLICATION FORM AND DEPOSIT 
 
  PROJECT PLANS 
 
  VOLUNTARY NEIGBORHOOD MEETING 
SUMMARY 
[Attachment 1] 
 
  PHOTO SIMULATIONS 
[Attachment 2] 
 
  PUBLIC NOTICE, AFFIDAVIT, LOG OF 
COMMENTS 
[Attachment 3] 
 
  PRIOR PERMITS & REGULATORY 
APPROVALS 
[Attachments 4a, 4b, 4c, 4d] 
 
  PROPERTY OWNER’S AUTHORIZATION 
[Attachment 5] 
 
 
 
 
 
  INITIAL CEQA ASSESSMENT 
[Attachment 6] 
 
  RF COMPLIANCE REPORT 
[Attachment 7] 
 
  NOISE COMPLIANCE REPORT 
[Attachment 8] 
 
  SECTION 6409 EVALUATION (if applicable) 
[Attachment 9] 
 
  PROJECT PURPOSE AND TECHNICAL 
OBJECTIVES INFORMATION* 
[Attachment 10] 
 
  ALTERNATIVE SITES ANALYSIS* 
[Attachment 11] 
 
  STRUCTURAL CERTIFICATION (if applicable) 
[Attachment 12] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
317 of 445

--- page 318 ---
APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS – REQUIRED MATERIALS 
 
The following Application Requirements contain the requirements for a complete wireless facility permit application. For the 
application to be deemed complete, the applicant must submit all the applicable application materials in the Application 
Checklist in accordance with the Application Requirements along with all other generally applicable materials required for 
the requested permit or approval. 
 
Notes: All starred (*) items are not required for a Section 6409 Approval. After the City issues the requested permit, the 
applicant must obtain all other required permits (including, without limitation and as applicable, building, electrical, plumbing, 
encroachment, etc.) prior to performing the installation. 
 
 
APPLICATION FORM AND DEPOSIT 
 
Instructions: Complete the Wireless Facilities Permit Application  available on the City’s website or at the Public Works 
Department and submit the corresponding application deposit for the requested permit or approval. You may find the City’s 
fee schedule on the City’s website or contact the Public Works Department for appropriate filing fees. 
 
 
PROJECT PLANS 
 
Instructions: Provide two sets of complete 24 x 36-inch project plans drawn to a scale of not less than 1/16" equals one 
foot and a digital file of such plans in portable document format (PDF). Project plans must contain all the following:  
 
1. Cover Sheet 
 
A complete cover sheet must include at a minimum: 
  a detailed project description that specifies the proposed installation and/or modifications including without 
limitation all physical elements such as antennas, radios, power services, all cables, mounts, and all other 
elements of the proposed project 
  site information that includes the proposed site address, site latitude and longitude (WGS 84 datum), zoning 
classification of the nearest private property, project team contact information  site map, and pole number (if 
applicable) 
2. Site Survey (Only required for proposed ground mounted equipment) 
Only a California-registered Civil Engineer or licensed surveyor may prepare the site survey. A complete site survey 
must include: 
  property and right-of-way boundaries with all bearings, distances, monuments, iron rods, caps or other markers 
clearly shown and called out 
  boundaries for all easements and/or dedications with all dimensions clearly shown and called out 
  approximate topographical contour lines with elevations called out 
 
  any trees at least 4 inches in diameter at a point approximately 4.5 feet above ground 
  all structures or improvements on the property or within the right of way within any block partially or entirely occupied 
by the project and any elements thereof 
  all structures or improvements on adjacent parcels within 15 feet from the property line 
  a north arrow, date, scale and legend 
  wet stamp and wet signature from the licensed preparer 
  general specifications and notes identifying the applicable public health and safety codes and standards 
 
318 of 445

--- page 319 ---
3. Site Development Plan 
 
A complete site development plan must include: 
  plan-view drawings, which include: 
  the entire property or right-of-way block with the proposed project improvements 
  detailed before-and-after views for any equipment pads, enclosures, cabinets, pedestals and/or vaults 
  all existing and proposed equipment with all dimensions, labels and ownership identifications clearly called 
out 
  boundaries for all easements, encroachments and/or other rights-of-way for access and utilities in 
connection with the wireless site with all dimensions clearly shown and called out 
  all existing and proposed primary and backup utilities, including without limitation all cables, connectors, 
risers, conduits, cable shrouds, trays, bridges and/or doghouses, transformers, disconnect switches, panels, 
meters, pedestals, cabinets, vaults, generators and/or generator sockets  
  detailed before-and-after elevation drawings from all four cardinal directions, which include: 
  all existing and proposed structures, improvements and/or fixtures with all dimensions clearly called out 
  all existing and proposed equipment with all dimensions, labels and ownership identifications clearly called 
out 
  all existing and proposed fiber optic cables, conduits, risers, guy wires, anchors, primary and secondary 
power lines clearly called out 
  callouts and notes for any proposed new or extended concealment elements 
  a north arrow, date, scale and legend 
 
4. Equipment Inventory 
The equipment inventory does not need to include primary utility cables, panels or cabinets, or any other objects not 
primarily designed or intended for radio communications purposes. All other equipment must be inventoried with the 
following information for each component: 
  manufacturer and model number 
  basic dimensions (height, width, length and weight) 
  table showing volumes of all equipment 
 
 
VOLUNTARY NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING SUMMARY 
 
Instructions: Provide a summary of neighborhood meeting if conducted. Label the summary as “Attachment 1 – 
Neighborhood Meeting Summary” and attach it to the application. If a meeting is not conducted, mark the checklist box 
with an “X”. 
 
 
PHOTO SIMULATIONS 
 
Instructions: Provide photo simulations of the proposed project as constructed. The photo simulations must be in a high-
resolution format and show the proposed facility from reasonable line-of-sight locations that would accurately and reliably 
reflect the appearance of the proposed facility and/or modifications as-built. Label these photo simulations “Attachment 2 – 
Photo Simulations” and attach them to this application. Except as otherwise provided, photo simulations must contain all 
the following: 
 
319 of 445

--- page 320 ---
1.  Current Site Photographs 
 
Current site photographs must include: 
  photographs of the existing site from at least two different reasonable line-of-sight locations from public streets 
or other adjacent viewpoints; 
  a map detail showing each location where a photograph was taken, the proposed site and the direction to the 
site from each photo location; 
  Include a close-up view of the equipment, including all wires, conduits, equipment, etc. 
 
2. Photo Simulations 
 
Photo simulations must include: 
  an accurate and reliable visual representation of the proposed facility from the same reasonable line-of-sight 
locations used in the current site photographs and must include without limitation all interconnecting cables, 
conduits, brackets, and electronic equipment such as antennas, radio units, powering, and the like; 
  a map detail showing each location where a photograph was taken, the proposed site and the direction to the 
site from each photo location; 
  Include a close-up view of the equipment, including all wires, conduits, equipment, etc. 
 
3. Section 6409 Photo Simulation  
For Section 6409 Approval applications, the applicant must provide at least one photo simulation that demonstrates the 
impact of the proposed modification on all concealment elements of the support structure. Concealment elements include 
but are not limited to radomes, cable shrouds, painting, landscaping, equipment enclosures and designs and/or 
techniques intended to blend with the surrounding built and/or natural environment. 
 
PUBLIC NOTICE, AFFIDAVIT, LOG OF COMMENTS 
 
Instructions: Provide a copy of the notice mailed to all property owners and residents within 500’ of the proposed project, 
proof of notification mailing (affidavit), and log of concerns, comments, questions with response in accordance with the 
Application Requirements and Design Standards.  Label the notice, affidavit and log “Attachment 3 – PUBLIC NOTICE, 
AFFIDAVIT, LOG” and attach it to this application. 
 
 
PRIOR PERMITS AND REGULATORY APPROVALS 
 
Instructions: Provide true and correct copies of all the following: 
 
1. Prior Permits 
If the applicant requests a Section 6409 Approval, provide copies of all prior local regulatory approvals (original siting 
permits and any modification permits) issued for the facility with any corresponding conditions of approval and project 
plans approved by the applicable regulatory authority. Alternatively, the applicant may submit a written justification that 
sets forth the reasons why prior regulatory approvals were not required for the wireless facility at the time it was 
constructed or modified. Label this documentation “Attachment 4a – Prior Permits” and attach it to this application.  
 
2. FCC Licenses 
If the applicant or service provider proposes to operate in FCC-licensed spectrum, provide proof of licenses for all 
planned operating bands. If there are federal build-out requirements, indicate which and whether they have been fully 
satisfied. If not satisfied, indicate what remains to be satisfied. Label this documentation “Attachment 4b – FCC 
Licenses” and attach it to this application. 
 
320 of 445

--- page 321 ---
3. FAA Forms 
If the proposed facility requires the applicant to file FAA form 7460 or other documentation under Federal Aviation 
Regulation Part 77.13 et seq., or under the FCC rules, provide such documentation. Label this documentation 
“Attachment 4c – FAA Forms” and attach it to this application. 
 
4. Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN) / Wireless ID Registration (WIR) 
For all applications for facilities in the public right-of-way, provide a true and correct copy of the applicant’s CPCN and/or 
WIR issued by the California Public Utilities Commission or its successor agency. Label this documentation “Attachment 
4d – CPCN / WIR” and attach it to this application. 
 
 
POLE OWNER’S AUTHORIZATION 
 
Instructions:  For privately owned poles, provide a letter of authorization from the pole owner that authorizes the applicant 
to perform the installation or modification. The letter must be signed by the owner. In lieu of a letter of authorization for 
facilities in the public right-of-way, the applicant may submit the property owner’s standard authorization form issued in the 
property owner’s regular course of business to demonstrate that the applicant has the authority to perform the installation or 
modification. Label this authorization “Attachment 5 – Property Owner’s Authorization” and attach it to this application. 
 
 
INITIAL CEQA ASSESSMENT 
 
Instructions: Complete, sign and attach to this application a fully executed Environmental Information Form. Label this form 
“Attachment 6 – Environmental Information Form” and attach it to this application. The Environmental Information Form 
may be obtained electronically on the City’s website or by contacting the Public Works Department.  
 
 
RF COMPLIANCE REPORT 
 
Instructions: Provide an RF exposure compliance report prepared and certified by an RF engineer that certifies that the 
proposed facility, as well as any collocated facilities and any cumulative emissions from adjacent areas, will comply with 
applicable federal RF human exposure standards and limits. At a minimum, the RF exposure compliance report must provide 
the same information and in the same form as the FCC LSGAC Appendix A form for each band of operations. For projects 
on or attached to poles subject to CPUC General Order 95 regulation, provide evidence of compliance with CPUC General 
Order 95, Rule 94. Label this report “Attachment 7 – RF Compliance Report” and attach it to this application.  
 
The RF compliance report must include:  
  the actual frequency, actual or maximum power levels (in watts effective radiated power (ERP)), and the actual 
or maximum transmitting channels for all existing and proposed antennas at the site. 
  exhibits that show:  
  the location and orientation of all transmitting antennas;  
  the boundaries of areas with RF exposures (whether individually or cumulatively) in excess of the 
uncontrolled/general population limit (as that term is defined by the FCC);  
  the boundaries of areas with RF exposures (whether individually or cumulatively) in excess of the 
controlled/occupational limit (as that term is defined by the FCC). 
 
 
Note: Each such boundary must be clearly marked and identified for every transmitting antenna at the project site, whether 
owned/operated by the applicant or another licensee. To the extent that the project site contains collocated transmitters from 
multiple operators, the RF exposure compliance report must evaluate all the transmitting antennas that may cause cumulative 
emissions. 
321 of 445

--- page 322 ---
NOISE COMPLIANCE REPORT 
 
Instructions: Provide a noise compliance report for the proposed facility and all associated equipment including all 
environmental control units, sump pumps, temporary backup power generators, and permanent backup power generators in 
order to demonstrate compliance with the City’s noise regulations. The noise compliance report must be prepared and 
certified by an engineer and include an analysis of the manufacturers’ specifications for all noise-emitting equipment and a 
depiction of the proposed equipment relative to all adjacent property lines. In lieu of a noise compliance report, the applicant 
may submit evidence from the equipment manufacturer that the ambient noise emitted from all the proposed equipment will 
not, both individually and cumulatively, exceed the applicable limits. Label this analysis “Attachment 8 – Noise Compliance 
Report” and attach it to the application. 
 
SECTION 6409 EVALUATION 
 
Instructions: If the applicant requests approval pursuant to Section 6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation 
Act of 2012 (codified as 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a)), the applicant must complete and submit justification whether the proposed 
modification is an eligible facilities request that complies with the applicable FCC substantial change thresholds. Label this 
worksheet “Attachment 9 – Section 6409 Evaluation” and attach it to the application. 
 
 
PROJECT PURPOSE AND TECHNICAL OBJECTIVES* 
 
Instructions: For applications not subject to Section 6409, provide the following information to demonstrate the intended 
technical service objectives and the nature of the existing service capabilities of the applicant’s network in the area that would 
be served by the proposed facility or enhanced by the proposed modification. Label this analysis “Attachment 10 – Project 
Purpose and Technical Objectives” and attach it to the application. 
 
1. Project Purpose 
Identify and describe the project purpose. Possible responses analyze whether the proposed facility or modification will:  
  add new personal wireless service coverage to an area in which the licensee does not currently provide any 
personal wireless service coverage; 
  add new personal wireless service capacity to an area in which the licensee currently provides personal wireless 
service coverage. 
If the project has a different purpose from the options described above, provide such purpose in full detail. 
 
2. Technical Objectives 
Provide a detailed written statement that describes the technical objectives the applicant intends the proposed wireless 
facility to achieve and the factual reasons why the proposed location, centerline height and equipment configuration are 
necessary to achieve those objectives. In addition, the statement must include all the following required information 
and/or materials: 
  a street-level map that shows the general geographic area of the service area(s) to be improved through the 
proposed wireless facility (the “Service Area”); 
  full-color signal propagation maps in scale with the street level map that show current and predicted service 
coverage in the area for all active frequencies in RSRP (or other relevant signal level or quality indicator) and 
with a legend that describes the objective signal levels in dBm that correspond to any colors used to depict 
signal levels on such propagation maps; 
  a written narrative that describes the uses (commercial, residential, primary thoroughfare, highway, etc.) within 
the Service Area, and the manner in which those uses would be negatively affected if the Service Area were to 
remain unaddressed; 
  a statement as to whether the applicant conducted any drive test(s) and, if so, all drive test results and data (in 
.XLS or .CSV or similar format) together with a report that describes how and when the applicant conducted 
such test(s). 
322 of 445

--- page 323 ---
3. Network Map 
Provide an overview map of the applicant’s network within the City’s jurisdictional and territorial boundaries that shows 
(1) all the existing wireless facilities that applicant currently owns and/or operates and (2) all future wireless facilities that 
are reasonably foreseeable within two years of the application submission. The map must provide a legend that 
distinguishes between “macro” cells and small cell facilities. 
 
ALTERNATIVE SITES ANALYSIS* 
 
Instructions: For applications not subject to Section 6409, provide a detailed written analysis that describes how the 
proposed wireless facility complies with all the applicable requirements in the San Mateo Municipal Code, which includes 
without limitation the provisions specific to wireless facilities, and all the alternative locations and designs considered before 
submitting this application. Label this analysis “Attachment 11 – Alternative Sites Analysis” and attach it to the application. 
The Alternative Sites Analysis shall be included as part of the neighborhood meeting, if conducted.  In addition, the analysis 
must include all the following required information and/or materials: 
 
  a street-level map that shows the general geographic area surrounding the proposed location annotated to show: 
  all existing wireless facilities within the relevant geographic area 
  the search ring used for this particular project.  The search ring shall be a minimum radius of 500’. 
  all locations for each alternative considered for this particular project 
  for each alternative site considered, a detailed written description that includes, without limitation all the following: 
  the nearest physical address 
  zoning district designation for the nearest private property 
  support structure type considered 
  general design concept and concealment elements/techniques considered 
  overall height and achievable antenna centerline height 
  the factual reasons why the applicant considered the potential alternative site location and/or design to 
be unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not in accordance with the development standards in San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. Note: This explanation must include a meaningful comparative 
analysis and such technical information and other factual justification as are necessary to document the 
reasons why each alternative is unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not as consistent with the 
development standards in Chapter 17.10. Conclusory statements that a particular alternative is 
unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not in accordance with the development standards in Chapter 
17.10 will be deemed incomplete. 
 
  for each alternative site within the search ring, signal propagation maps in scale with the street level map that 
show current and predicted service coverage in the area for all active frequencies in RSRP (or other relevant 
signal level or quality indicator) with and without the alternative site and with a legend that describes the objective 
signal levels in dBm that correspond to any colors used to depict signal levels on such propagation maps. The 
signal propagation maps required must be directly comparable with the signal propagation maps submitted to 
show before-and-after service from the applicant’s proposed site. If the applicant did not locate any alternatives 
within the search ring, the analysis must expressly state that no such alternatives were considered. 
 
STRUCTURAL CERTIFICATION 
 
Instructions: Provide certification prepared and stamped by a professionally licensed structural engineer certifying that the 
pole foundation and attachments meet or exceed design parameters detailed in the design standards. Label this analysis 
“Attachment 12 – Structural Certification” and attach it to the application.  
 
 
323 of 445

--- page 324 ---
Appendix C: Standard Conditions of Approval 
for Wireless Communications 
Facilities
 
 
324 of 445

--- page 325 ---
STANDARD CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES IN 
THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY PURSUANT TO SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION 
17.10.080 
 
A. 
Standard Conditions for Wireless Facilities Permits.  
 
1. 
Permit Term. This permit will automatically expire 10 years and one day from its issuance 
if a new permit has not been applied for in writing at least 120 days prior to permit 
expiration, except when California Government Code § 65964(b), as may be amended or 
superseded in the future, authorizes the City to establish a shorter term for public safety 
or substantial land use reasons. Any other permits or approvals issued in connection with 
any collocation, modification or other change to this wireless facility, which includes 
without limitation any permits or other approvals deemed-granted or deemed-approved 
under federal or state law, will not extend this term limit unless expressly provided 
otherwise in such permit or approval or required under federal or state law. 
 
2. 
Compliance with Approved Plans. Before the Department of Public Works issues any 
encroachment permit and/or other ministerial permits required to commence construction 
in connection with this permit, the permittee must incorporate this permit, all conditions 
associated with this permit and the approved photo simulations into the project plans (the 
“Approved Plans”). The permittee must construct, install and operate the wireless facility 
in substantial compliance with the Approved Plans. Any alterations, modifications or other 
changes to the Approved Plans, whether requested by the permittee or required by other 
departments or public agencies with jurisdiction over the wireless facility, must be 
submitted in a written request subject to the City’s prior review and approval, who may 
refer the request to the original approval authority if the City finds that the requested 
alteration, modification or other change deviates from the Approved Plans or implicates 
a significant or substantial land-use concern. 
 
3. 
Post-Installation Certification. Within 60 calendar days after the permittee commences 
full, unattended operations of a wireless facility approved or deemed-approved under San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10, the permittee shall provide the City with 
documentation that the wireless facility has been installed and/or constructed in 
compliance with the Approved Plans.  Such documentation must include as-built 
drawings,  GIS data, post installation RF study, and site photographs. 
 
4. 
Build-Out Period. This permit will automatically expire one (1) year from the approval or 
deemed-granted date. The City may grant one written extension to a date certain, but not 
to exceed one (1) additional year, when the permittee shows good cause to extend the 
limitations period in a written request for an extension submitted at least 30 days prior to 
the automatic expiration date in this condition. 
 
5. 
Maintenance Obligations; Vandalism. During any maintenance or repair operations, 
the permittee shall keep the site, which includes without limitation any and all 
improvements, equipment, structures, access routes, fences and landscape features, in 
a neat, clean and safe condition. The permittee, at no cost to the City, shall remove and 
remediate any graffiti or other vandalism on its equipment within 48 hours after the 
permittee receives notice or otherwise becomes aware that such graffiti or other 
vandalism occurred.  
 
325 of 445

--- page 326 ---
6. 
Compliance with Laws. The permittee shall maintain compliance at all times with all 
federal, state and local statutes, regulations, orders or other rules that carry the force of 
law (“Laws”) applicable to the permittee, the subject property, the wireless facility or any 
use or activities in connection with the use authorized in this permit, which includes 
without limitation any Laws applicable to human exposure to RF emissions. The permittee 
expressly acknowledges and agrees that this obligation is intended to be broadly 
construed and that no other specific requirements in these conditions are intended to 
reduce, relieve or otherwise lessen the permittee’s obligations to maintain compliance 
with all Laws. In the event that the City fails to timely notice, prompt or enforce compliance 
with any applicable provision in the San Mateo Municipal Code, any permit, any permit 
condition or any applicable law or regulation, the applicant or permittee will not be relieved 
from its obligation to comply in all respects with all applicable provisions in the San Mateo 
Municipal Code, any permit, any permit condition or any applicable law or regulation. 
 
7. 
Cooperation with RF Compliance Evaluations. At all times relevant to this permit, the 
permittee and the property owner shall reasonably cooperate with efforts by the City to 
evaluate whether the wireless facility complies with all applicable FCC rules and 
regulations for human exposure to RF emissions. Such cooperation shall be at no cost to 
the City and may include, but is not limited to: (1) furnishing the City with a written affidavit 
signed by an RF engineer certifying the wireless facility’s compliance with applicable FCC 
rules and regulations; (2) providing technical data such as the frequencies in use, power 
output levels and antenna specifications, reasonably necessary to evaluate compliance 
with maximum permissible exposure levels set by the FCC; (3) allowing the City or its 
designee to have supervised access to the areas near the wireless facility for inspections 
and field measurements; and (4) promptly responding to all requests by the City or its 
designee for information and/or cooperation with respect to any of the foregoing. 
 
8. 
Adverse Impacts on Other Properties. The permittee shall use all reasonable efforts to 
avoid any and all undue or unnecessary adverse impacts on nearby properties that may 
arise from the permittee’s or its authorized personnel’s construction, installation, 
operation, modification, maintenance, repair, removal and/or other activities at the site. 
The permittee shall not perform or cause others to perform any construction, installation, 
operation, modification, maintenance, repair, removal or other work that involves heavy 
equipment or machines except during normal construction work hours authorized by the 
San Mateo Municipal Code. The restricted work hours in this condition will not prohibit 
any work required to prevent an actual, immediate harm to property or persons, or any 
work during an emergency declared by the City. The City may issue a stop work order for 
any activities that violates this condition. 
 
9. 
Backup Power; Generators. The permittee shall operate backup power generators only 
during (a) commercial power outages or (b) for maintenance purposes during normal 
construction hours in accordance with the San Mateo Municipal Code. The City may 
approve a temporary power source and/or generator in connection with initial 
construction, major repairs or in the event of an emergency. The permittee shall not 
operate any permanent backup generators located in the public right-of-way. 
 
10. 
Inspections; Emergencies. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the 
City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee may enter onto the site and inspect the 
improvements and equipment upon reasonable prior notice to the permittee,  or promptly 
after  an emergency. The City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee may, but will not 
be obligated to, enter onto the site area without prior notice to support, repair, disable or 
remove any improvements or equipment in emergencies or when such improvements or 
326 of 445

--- page 327 ---
equipment threatens actual, imminent harm to property or persons. The permittee, if 
present, may observe the City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee while any such 
inspection or emergency access occurs. 
 
11. 
Permittee’s Contact Information. The permittee shall furnish the City with accurate and 
up-to-date contact information for a person responsible for the wireless facility, which 
includes without limitation such person’s full name, title, direct telephone number, 
facsimile number, mailing address and email address. The permittee shall keep such 
contact information up to date at all times and immediately provide the City with updated 
contact information in the event that either the responsible person or such person’s 
contact information changes. 
 
12. 
Indemnification. The permittee shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City, City 
Council and City boards, commissions, agents, officers, officials, volunteers, and 
employees from any and all (1) damages, liabilities, injuries, losses, costs and expenses 
and from any and all claims, demands, law suits, writs and other actions or proceedings 
(“Claims”) brought against the City or its agents, officers, officials, volunteers, and/or 
employees to challenge, attack, seek to modify, set aside, void or annul the City’s 
approval of this permit, and (2) other Claims of any kind or form, whether for personal 
injury, death or property damage, that arise from or in connection with the permittee’s or 
its agents’, directors’, officers’, employees’, contractors’, subcontractors’, licensees’, or 
customers’ acts or omissions in connection with this permit or the wireless facility. 
Permittee’s duty to defend and indemnify shall not apply to the extent such Claims are 
caused by the sole or active negligence or willful misconduct of the City. In the event the 
City becomes aware of any Claims, the City will use best efforts to promptly notify the 
permittee and the private property owner and shall reasonably cooperate in the defense. 
The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the City shall have the right to 
approve, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, the legal counsel providing 
the City’s defense, and the property owner and/or permittee (as applicable) shall promptly 
reimburse City for any costs and expenses directly and necessarily incurred by the City 
in the course of the defense. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the 
permittee’s indemnification obligations under this condition are a material consideration 
that motivates the City to approve this permit, and that such indemnification obligations 
will survive the expiration or revocation of this permit. 
 
13. 
Performance Bond. Before the Department of Public Works issues any encroachment 
permit and/or other ministerial permits required to commence construction in connection 
with this permit, the permittee shall post a performance bond from a surety and in a form 
acceptable to the City in an amount reasonably necessary to cover the cost to remove 
the improvements and restore all affected areas based on a written estimate from a 
qualified contractor with experience in wireless facilities removal. The written estimate 
must include the cost to remove all equipment and other improvements, which includes 
without limitation all antennas, radios, batteries, generators, utilities, cabinets, mounts, 
brackets, hardware, cables, wires, conduits, structures, shelters, towers, poles, footings 
and foundations, whether above ground or below ground, constructed or installed in 
connection with the wireless facility, plus the cost to completely restore any areas affected 
by the removal work to a standard compliant with applicable laws. In establishing or 
adjusting the bond amount required under this condition, and in accordance with 
California Government Code § 65964(a), the City shall take into consideration any 
information provided by the permittee regarding the cost to remove the wireless facility to 
a standard compliant with applicable laws. The performance bond shall expressly survive 
327 of 445

--- page 328 ---
the duration of the permit term to the extent required to effectuate a complete removal of 
the subject wireless facility in accordance with this condition. 
 
14. 
Permit Revocation. The City may review this permit at any time due to complaints about 
noncompliance with applicable laws or any approval conditions attached to this permit. In 
accordance with all applicable laws, the City may revoke this permit or amend these 
conditions as the City deems necessary or appropriate to correct any such 
noncompliance. 
 
15. 
Record Retention. The permittee must maintain, for the duration of the permit term, 
complete and accurate copies of all permits and other regulatory approvals issued in 
connection with the wireless facility, which includes without limitation this approval, the 
approved plans and photo simulations incorporated into this approval, all conditions 
associated with this approval and any ministerial permits or approvals issued in 
connection with this approval. In the event that the permittee does not maintain such 
records as required in this condition, any ambiguities or uncertainties that would be 
resolved through an inspection of the missing records will be construed against the 
permittee. The permittee may keep electronic records; provided, however, that copies 
kept in the City’s possession will control over any conflicts, and originals will control over 
all other copies in any form. 
 
16. 
Undergrounded Utilities. In the event that other public utilities or cable television 
operators in the public right-of-way underground their facilities where the permittee’s 
wireless facility is located, the permittee must underground its equipment except the 
antennas and antenna supports, to the extent technically feasible. Such undergrounding 
shall occur at the permittee’s sole cost and expense except as reimbursed pursuant to 
law. In areas with existing overhead lines, new communication lines shall be “overlashed” 
with existing communication lines to the extent technically feasible. 
 
17. 
Electric Meter Removal. In the event that the commercial electric utility provider adopts 
or changes its rules obviating the need for a separate or ground-mounted electric meter 
and enclosure, the permittee on its own initiative and at its sole cost and expense shall 
apply to the City for permission to remove the separate or ground-mounted electric meter 
and enclosure and restore the affected area to its original condition. 
 
18. 
Rearrangement and Relocation. The permittee acknowledges that the City, in its sole 
discretion and at any time, may: (1) change any street grade, width or location; (2) add, 
remove or otherwise change any improvements in, on, under or along any street, 
sidewalk, or right of way owned by the City or any other public agency, which includes 
without limitation any sewers, storm drains, conduits, pipes, vaults, boxes, cabinets, poles 
and utility systems for gas, water, electric or telecommunications; and/or (3) perform any 
other work deemed necessary, useful or desirable by the City (collectively, “City Work”). 
The City reserves the rights to do any and all City Work without any admission on its part 
that the City would not have such rights without the express reservation in this permit. In 
the event that the City determines that any City Work will require the permittee’s facility 
to be rearranged and/or relocated, the permittee shall, at its sole cost and expense, do or 
cause to be done all things necessary to accomplish such rearrangement and/or 
relocation. If the permittee fails or refuses to either permanently or temporarily rearrange 
and/or relocate the permittee’s facility within a reasonable time after the City’s notice, the 
City may (but will not be obligated to) cause the rearrangement or relocation to be 
performed at the permittee’s sole cost and expense. The City may exercise its rights to 
rearrange or relocate the permittee’s facility without prior notice to permittee when the 
328 of 445

--- page 329 ---
City determines that the City Work is immediately necessary to protect public health or 
safety. The permittee shall reimburse the City for all costs and expenses in connection 
with such work within 10 calendar days after a written demand for reimbursement and 
reasonable documentation to support such costs. In addition, the permittee shall 
indemnify, defend and hold the City, its agents, officers, officials, employees and 
volunteers harmless from and against any Claims in connection with rearranging or 
relocating the permittee’s facility, or turning on or off any water, oil, gas, electricity or other 
utility service in connection with the permittee’s facility, except to the extent such Claims 
are caused by the sole or active negligence or willful misconduct of the City. 
 
19. 
Landscaping. The permittee shall replace any landscape features damaged or displaced 
by the construction, installation, operation, maintenance or other work performed by the 
permittee or at the permittee’s direction on or about the site. In the event that any trees 
are damaged or displaced, the permittee shall hire and pay for a licensed arborist to 
select, plant and maintain replacement landscaping in an appropriate location for the 
species. Only ISA Certified workers under the supervision of a licensed arborist shall be 
used to install the replacement tree(s). The box size and other standards for any 
replacement trees shall be subject to the City’s approval in consultation with the licensed 
arborist. The permittee shall, at all times, be responsible to maintain any replacement 
landscape features. 
 
20. 
Encroachment Permit General Conditions. The permittee shall comply with the City of 
San Mateo’s Encroachment Permit General Conditions. 
 
21. 
Insurance Requirements. Commercial general liability (or comprehensive) and property 
damage insurance indicating the City of San Mateo as an additional insured is required. 
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
i. 
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form 
CG 00 01 covering CGL on an "occurrence" basis, including products-
completed operations, personal   & advertising injury, contractual liability, 
property damage, death, bodily injury, and limited pollution liability 
endorsement, with limits no less than $5,000,000 per occurrence; 
$10,000,000 aggregate.  If a general aggregate limit applies, either the 
general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
ii. 
Limited Pollution Liability Coverage: Insurance in the amount of 
$5,000,000 per claim and in the aggregate covering third party claims for 
bodily injury, property damage or cleanup costs as required by law, where 
the pollution is caused during and by permittee’s work and for permittee’s 
products and completed operations. (This may satisfy the requirement for 
a limited pollution liability endorsement on the Commercial General 
Liability insurance policy.) 
iii. 
Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 
1), or if permittee has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned 
autos (Code 9), with limit no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury and property damage. 
iv. 
Workers' Compensation:  as required by the State of California, with 
Statutory Limits, and Employer's Liability Insurance with limit of no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease. The Workers 
Compensation policy shall be endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor 
329 of 445

--- page 330 ---
of City (and its elected and appointed officials, employees, and volunteers). 
The insurers shall agree to waive all rights of subrogation against City and 
its officials, officers, employees, and volunteers for all work performed by 
permittee and its employees, agents, and contractors. 
v. 
Professional Liability: (Applicable to all permittee’s contractors and 
subcontractors of any tier performing any professional services including 
engineers, surveyors, or consultants relating to this agreement) with limits 
of $2,000,000 per claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate. 
vi. 
Contractors’ Pollution Liability: (Applicable to all permittee’s contractors and 
subcontractors of any tier performing any removal, remediation, abatement, 
transportation or disposal of any hazardous materials and/or projects 
involving environmental hazards relating to permit) with limits of $2,000,000 
per occurrence and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.   
vii. 
“All Risk” Property Insurance: against all risks of loss or damage to any 
wireless communication facility(ies) or betterments, personal property, 
trade fixtures, equipment, and/or merchandise located in, on, at, under, 
above, or about the City’s right of way, license area, and/or City-owned 
pole(s) (including, but not limited to, loss resulting from fire, windstorm, hail, 
lightning, vandalism, malicious mischief, and such other perils ordinarily 
included in extended coverage casualty insurance policies).  Such 
insurance shall be maintained in an amount sufficient to cover not less than 
one hundred percent (100%) of the full replacement value thereof 
(whichever is greater) with no coinsurance penalty provision.  Permittee 
may self-insure this risk with prior notice to the City. 
 
 
If the permittee maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires 
and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the permittee. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, volunteers, and agents are to be 
covered as insureds on the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, 
leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the permittee; and on the COL policy with 
respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the 
permittee including materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work 
or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement 
to the permittee’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 
20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to the permit, the permittee’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, volunteers, 
and agents. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, volunteers, or agents shall be excess of the permittee’s 
insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
Notice of Cancellation 
330 of 445

--- page 331 ---
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, 
except after thirty (30) days' prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given 
to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Permittee hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation, which any 
commercial general liability, automobile liability, and worker’s compensation insurer of 
said permittee may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under 
such insurance.    Permittee agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to 
affect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not 
the City has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer. 
 
Self-lnsured Retentions 
Any self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the permittee to purchase coverage with a lower retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense 
expenses within the retention. 
 
Claims Made Policies.  If any insurance coverage required herein is written on a “claims 
made” policy:  (a) the retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the 
execution date of the permit or the beginning of the permitted project or work; (b) 
insurance must be maintained and evidence of insurance must be provided for at least 
the duration of any applicable Master License Agreement and/or the applicable permit(s)) 
and five (5) years after completion of the subject work; and (c) if coverage is canceled or 
non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made policy form with a retroactive 
date prior to the permit effective, or start of work date, permittee must purchase extended 
reporting period coverage for a minimum of five (5) years after completion of any work; 
and (d) a copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the City for 
review upon request.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best's rating of no less than 
A:VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
Permittee shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements 
or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All 
certificates and endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work 
commences.   However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work 
beginning shall not waive the permittee's obligation to provide them.  The City reserves 
the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including 
endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
 
Contractors and Subcontractors.  Permittee shall require and verify that all contractors 
and subcontractors (if any) maintain the same insurance limits as required of permittee, 
unless otherwise agreed to by the City. 
 
Special Risk or Circumstances. City, upon prior written notice to, review and written  
acceptance by permittee, reserves the right to modify these insurance requirements at 
any time, including, but not limited to, limits, based on the nature of the risk, prior 
experience, insurer, coverage, or other special circumstances. 
 
331 of 445

--- page 332 ---
22. 
Traffic Control.  Traffic control per Caltrans standards.  No street closures allowed, must 
allow through traffic at all times.  Permittee must notify City of San Mateo's Police (650) 
522-7700, Fire (650) 522-7940, and San Mateo County Communications (650) 363-4961, 
at least 24 – 48 hours in advance of lane closures or detours; and immediately upon 
removal of lane closure or detour. 
 
23. 
Traffic Control Plans (TCPs). Site-specific TCP’s are required where any of the following 
criteria are met, and shall be prepared in accordance with the “Guidelines for Submittal 
of Site-Specific TCP’s” found in the Encroachment Permit Packet: 
i. 
Any roadway that is classified as a collector or arterial. Roadway classifications 
are defined in the Circulation Element of the General Plan. A map of roadway 
classifications 
can 
be 
seen 
here: 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/Home/View/7192 and is attached 
to this document. 
ii. 
Any roadway (including local roadways) that requires full road closures or detours. 
iii. 
Any roadway with a speed limit over 25 mph. 
 
The City reserves the right to require site-specific TCP’s where deemed necessary. 
 
24. 
Underground Service Alert (USA). Forty-eight (48) hours before commencing work, the 
permittee shall contact Underground Service Alert (USA) at 1-800-227-2600 to verify 
elevations and locations of all existing utilities 
 
25. 
Private Sewer Laterals. The City of San Mateo does not mark private sewer laterals in 
the public right-of-way as part of the Underground Service Alert (USA) program. Permittee 
is to take precautions to locate and protect private sewer laterals from damage during 
construction. In the event any damage is discovered, the Permittee is required to 
immediately dig and repair the sewer lateral to restore sewer service. If new facilities are 
being installed by the boring method the Permittee is also required to video inspect any 
sewer and storm mains that are crossed by their facilities as part of this project, a copy of 
this video is to be provided to the City. 
 
The above conditions are in addition to all other standards, requirements, and conditions adopted by 
the City, all wireless facilities permits, whether approved by the City or deemed approved by the 
operation of law, shall be automatically subject to the conditions in this section. The City (or the 
appellate authority on appeal) shall have discretion to modify or amend these conditions on a case-by-
case basis as may be necessary or appropriate under the circumstances to protect public health and 
safety or allow for the proper operation of the approved facility consistent with the goals and applicable 
provisions of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. 
 
 
B. 
Standard Conditions for Section 6409 Approvals. In addition to all other conditions adopted 
by the City, all section 6409 approvals, whether approved by the City or deemed approved by 
the operation of law, shall be automatically subject to the conditions in this section. The City (or 
the appellate authority on appeal) shall have discretion to modify or amend these conditions on 
a case-by-case basis as may be necessary or appropriate under the circumstances to protect 
public health and safety or allow for the proper operation of the approved facility consistent with 
the goals and applicable provisions of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. 
 
332 of 445

--- page 333 ---
1. 
Permit Term. The City’s grant or grant by operation of law of a section 6409 approval 
constitutes a federally-mandated modification to the underlying permit or other prior 
regulatory authorization for the subject tower or base station, and will be regarded as a 
modification to the underlying approval for the subject tower or base station. The City’s 
grant or grant by operation of law of a section 6409 approval will not extend the permit 
term, if any, for any underlying permit or other underlying prior regulatory authorization. 
Accordingly, the term for a section 6409 approval shall be coterminous with the underlying 
permit or other prior regulatory authorization for the subject tower or base station. This 
condition shall not be applied or interpreted in any way that would cause the term of the 
underlying permit for the modified facility to be less than 10 years in total length. 
 
2. 
Compliance Obligations Due to Invalidation. In the event that any court of competent 
jurisdiction invalidates all or any portion of Section 6409 or any FCC rule that interprets 
Section 6409 such that federal law would not mandate approval for any section 6409 
approval(s), such approval(s) shall automatically expire one year from the effective date 
of the judicial order, unless the decision would not authorize accelerated termination of 
previously approved section 6409 approvals or the City grants an extension upon written 
request from the permittee that shows good cause for the extension, which includes 
without limitation extreme financial hardship. Notwithstanding anything in the previous 
sentence to the contrary, the City may not grant a permanent exemption or indefinite 
extension. A permittee shall not be required to remove its improvements approved under 
the invalidated section 6409 approval when it has obtained the applicable permit(s) or 
submitted an application for such permit(s) before the one-year period ends. 
 
3. 
City’s Standing Reserved. The City’s grant or grant by operation of law of a section 
6409 approval does not waive, and shall not be construed to waive, any standing by the 
City to challenge Section 6409, any FCC rules that interpret Section 6409 or any section 
6409 approval. 
 
4. 
Compliance with Approved Plans. Before the Department of Public Works issues any 
permits required to commence construction in connection with this section 6409 approval, 
the permittee must incorporate this section 6409 approval, all conditions associated with 
this section 6409 approval and any approved photo simulations into the project plans (the 
“Approved Plans”). The permittee must construct, install and operate the wireless facility 
in substantial compliance, as determined by the City, with the Approved Plans. Any 
alterations, modifications or other changes to the Approved Plans, whether requested by 
the permittee or required by other departments or public agencies with jurisdiction over 
the wireless facility, must be submitted in a written request subject to the City’s prior 
review and approval.  The City may revoke the section 6409 approval if the City finds that 
the requested alteration, modification or other change may cause a substantial change 
as that term is defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(7), as may be amended. 
 
5. 
Post-Installation Certification. Within 60 calendar days after the permittee commences 
full, unattended operations of a wireless facility approved or deemed-approved under San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10, the permittee shall provide the City with 
documentation reasonably acceptable to the City that the wireless facility has been 
installed and/or constructed in substantial compliance with the Approved Plans. Subject 
to the City’s discretion, such documentation may include, but shall not be limited to, as-
built drawings, site surveys, GIS data and site photographs. 
 
6. 
Build-Out Period. This section 6409 approval will automatically expire one (1) year from 
the approval or deemed-granted date unless the permittee obtains all other permits and 
333 of 445

--- page 334 ---
approvals required to install, construct and/or operate the approved wireless facility, 
which includes without limitation any permits or approvals required by any federal, state 
or local public agencies with jurisdiction over the subject property, the wireless facility or 
its use. The City may grant one written extension up to one (1) year when the permittee 
shows good cause to extend the limitations period in a written request for an extension 
submitted at least 30 calendar days prior to the automatic expiration date in this condition. 
 
7. 
Maintenance Obligations; Vandalism. The permittee shall keep the site, which includes 
without limitation any and all improvements, equipment, structures, access routes, fences 
and landscape features, in a neat, clean and safe condition in accordance with the 
Approved Plans and all conditions in this permit. Any concealment elements shall be kept 
in “like new” condition at all times. The permittee shall keep the site area free from all litter 
and debris at all times. The permittee, at no cost to the City, shall remove and remediate 
any graffiti or other vandalism at the site within 48 hours after the permittee receives 
notice or otherwise becomes aware that such graffiti or other vandalism occurred. The 
permittee and property owner shall maintain any and all landscape features in accordance 
with an approved landscape plan, if any, and shall replace dying or dead trees, foliage or 
other landscape elements shown on the Approved Plans within 30 calendar days after 
written notice from the City.  
 
8. 
Compliance with Laws. The permittee shall maintain compliance at all times with all 
federal, state and local statutes, regulations, orders or other rules that carry the force of 
law (“Laws”) applicable to the permittee, the subject property, the wireless facility or any 
use or activities in connection with the use authorized in this section 6409 approval, which 
includes without limitation any Laws applicable to human exposure to RF emissions. The 
permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that this obligation is intended to be 
broadly construed and that no other specific requirements in these conditions are 
intended to reduce, relieve or otherwise lessen the permittee’s obligations to maintain 
compliance with all Laws. In the event that the City fails to timely notice, prompt or enforce 
compliance with any applicable provision in the San Mateo Municipal Code, any permit, 
any permit condition or any applicable law or regulation, the applicant or permittee will not 
be relieved from its obligation to comply in all respects with all applicable provisions in the 
San Mateo Municipal Code, any permit, any permit condition or any applicable law or 
regulation. 
 
9. 
Cooperation with RF Compliance Evaluations. At all times relevant to this permit, the 
permittee and the property owner shall reasonably cooperate with efforts by the City to 
evaluate whether the wireless facility complies with all applicable FCC rules and 
regulations for human exposure to RF emissions. Such cooperation shall be at no cost to 
the City and may include, but is not limited to: (1) furnishing the City with a written affidavit 
signed by an RF engineer certifying the wireless facility’s compliance with applicable FCC 
rules and regulations; (2) providing technical data such as the frequencies in use, power 
output levels and antenna specifications, reasonably necessary to evaluate compliance 
with maximum permissible exposure levels set by the FCC; (3) allowing the City or its 
designee to have supervised access to the areas near the wireless facility for inspections 
and field measurements; and (4) promptly responding to all requests by the City or its 
designee for information and/or cooperation with respect to any of the foregoing. 
 
10. 
Adverse Impacts on Other Properties. The permittee shall use all reasonable efforts to 
avoid any and all undue or unnecessary adverse impacts on nearby properties that may 
arise from the permittee’s or its authorized personnel’s construction, installation, 
operation, modification, maintenance, repair, removal and/or other activities at the site. 
334 of 445

--- page 335 ---
The permittee shall not perform or cause others to perform any construction, installation, 
operation, modification, maintenance, repair, removal or other work that involves heavy 
equipment or machines except during normal construction hours authorized by the San 
Mateo Municipal Code. The restricted work hours in this condition will not prohibit any 
work required to prevent an actual, immediate harm to property or persons, or any work 
during an emergency declared by the City. The City may issue a stop work order for any 
activities that violates this condition. 
 
11. 
Backup Power; Generators. The permittee shall operate backup power generators only 
during (a) commercial power outages or (b) for maintenance purposes during normal 
construction hours in accordance with the San Mateo Municipal Code. The City may 
approve a temporary power source and/or generator in connection with initial 
construction, major repairs or in the event of an emergency. The permittee shall not 
operate any permanent backup generators located in the public right-of-way. 
 
12. 
Inspections; Emergencies. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the 
City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee may enter onto the site and inspect the 
improvements and equipment upon reasonable prior notice to the permittee, or at any 
time during an emergency. The City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee may, but 
will not be obligated to, enter onto the site area without prior notice to support, repair, 
disable or remove any improvements or equipment in emergencies or when such 
improvements or equipment threatens actual, imminent harm to property or persons. The 
permittee, if present, may observe the City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee 
while any such inspection or emergency access occurs. 
 
13. 
Permittee’s Contact Information. The permittee shall furnish the City with accurate and 
up-to-date contact information for a person responsible for the wireless facility, which 
includes without limitation such person’s full name, title, direct telephone number, 
facsimile number, mailing address and email address. The permittee shall keep such 
contact information up to date at all times and immediately provide the City with updated 
contact information in the event that either the responsible person or such person’s 
contact information changes. 
 
14. 
Indemnification. The permittee shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City, City 
Council and City boards, commissions, agents, officers, officials, employees and 
volunteers from any and all (1) damages, liabilities, injuries, losses, costs and expenses 
and from any and all claims, demands, law suits, writs and other actions or proceedings 
(“Claims”) brought against the City or its agents, officers, officials, employees or 
volunteers to challenge, attack, seek to modify, set aside, void or annul the City’s approval 
of this section 6409 approval, and (2) other Claims of any kind or form, whether for 
personal injury, death or property damage, that arise from or in connection with the 
permittee’s or its agents’, directors’, officers’, employees’, contractors’, subcontractors’, 
licensees’, or customers’ acts or omissions in connection with this section 6409 approval 
or the wireless facility. Permittee’s duty to defend and indemnify shall not apply to the 
extent such Claims are caused by the sole or active negligence or willful misconduct of 
the City.  In the event the City becomes aware of any Claims, the City will use best efforts 
to promptly notify the permittee and the private property owner and shall reasonably 
cooperate in the defense. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the 
City shall have the right to approve, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, 
the legal counsel providing the City’s defense, and the property owner and/or permittee 
(as applicable) shall promptly reimburse City for any costs and expenses directly and 
necessarily incurred by the City in the course of the defense. The permittee expressly 
335 of 445

--- page 336 ---
acknowledges and agrees that the permittee’s indemnification obligations under this 
condition are a material consideration that motivates the City to approve this section 6409 
approval, and that such indemnification obligations will survive the expiration or 
revocation of this section 6409 approval. 
 
15. 
Performance Bond. Before the Department of Public Works issues any encroachment 
permit and/or other ministerial permits required to commence construction in connection 
with this section 6409 approval, the permittee shall post a performance bond from a surety 
and in a form acceptable to the City in an amount reasonably necessary to cover the cost 
to remove the improvements and restore all affected areas based on a written estimate 
from a qualified contractor with experience in wireless facilities removal. The written 
estimate must include the cost to remove all equipment and other improvements, which 
includes without limitation all antennas, radios, batteries, generators, utilities, cabinets, 
mounts, brackets, hardware, cables, wires, conduits, structures, shelters, towers, poles, 
footings and foundations, whether above ground or below ground, constructed or installed 
in connection with the wireless facility, plus the cost to completely restore any areas 
affected by the removal work to a standard compliant with applicable laws. In establishing 
or adjusting the bond amount required under this condition, and in accordance with 
California Government Code § 65964(a), the City shall take into consideration any 
information provided by the permittee regarding the cost to remove the wireless facility to 
a standard compliant with applicable laws. The performance bond shall expressly survive 
the duration of the permit term to the extent required to effectuate a complete removal of 
the subject wireless facility in accordance with this condition. 
 
16. 
Recall to Approval Authority; Permit Revocation. The City may recall this section 6409 
approval for review at any time due to complaints about noncompliance with applicable 
laws or any approval conditions attached to this section 6409 approval after notice and 
an opportunity to cure the violation is provided to the permittee. If the noncompliance 
continues after notice and reasonable opportunity to cure the noncompliance, the City 
may revoke this section 6409 approval or amend these conditions as the City deems 
necessary or appropriate to correct any such noncompliance. 
 
17. 
Record Retention. The permittee must, for the duration of the permit term, maintain 
complete and accurate copies of all permits and other regulatory approvals issued in 
connection with the wireless facility, which includes without limitation this approval, the 
approved plans and photo simulations incorporated into this approval, all conditions 
associated with this approval and any ministerial permits or approvals issued in 
connection with this approval. In the event that the permittee does not maintain such 
records as required in this condition, any ambiguities or uncertainties that would be 
resolved through an inspection of the missing records will be construed against the 
permittee. The permittee may keep electronic records; provided, however, that hard 
copies or electronic records kept in the City’s regular files will control over any conflicts 
between such City-controlled copies or records and the permittee’s electronic copies, and 
complete originals will control over all other copies in any form. 
 
18. 
Undergrounded Utilities. In the event that other public utilities or cable television 
operators in the public right-of-way underground their facilities where the permittee’s 
wireless facility is located, the permittee must underground its equipment except the 
antennas and antenna supports, to the extent technically feasible. Such undergrounding 
shall occur at the permittee’s sole cost and expense except as reimbursed pursuant to 
law. In areas with existing overhead lines, new communication lines shall be “overlashed” 
with existing communication lines to the extent technically feasible. 
336 of 445

--- page 337 ---
19. 
Electric Meter Removal. In the event that the commercial electric utility provider adopts 
or changes its rules obviating the need for a separate or ground-mounted electric meter 
and enclosure, the permittee on its own initiative and at its sole cost and expense shall 
apply to the City for permission to remove the separate or ground-mounted electric meter 
and enclosure and restore the affected area to its original condition. 
 
20. 
Rearrangement and Relocation. The permittee acknowledges that the City, in its sole 
discretion and at any time, may: (1) change any street grade, width or location; (2) add, 
remove or otherwise change any improvements in, on, under or along any street owned 
by the City or any other public agency, which includes without limitation any sewers, storm 
drains, conduits, pipes, vaults, boxes, cabinets, poles and utility systems for gas, water, 
electric or telecommunications; and/or (3) perform any other work deemed necessary, 
useful or desirable by the City (collectively, “City Work”). The City reserves the rights to 
do any and all City Work without any admission on its part that the City would not have 
such rights without the express reservation in this permit. In the event that the City 
determines that any City Work will require the permittee’s facility to be rearranged and/or 
relocated, the permittee shall, at its sole cost and expense, do or cause to be done all 
things necessary to accomplish such rearrangement and/or relocation. If the permittee 
fails or refuses to either permanently or temporarily rearrange and/or relocate the 
permittee’s facility within a reasonable time after the City’s notice, the City may (but will 
not be obligated to) cause the rearrangement or relocation to be performed at the 
permittee’s sole cost and expense. The City may exercise its rights to rearrange or 
relocate the permittee’s facility without prior notice to permittee when the City determines 
that the City Work is immediately necessary to protect public health or safety. The 
permittee shall reimburse the City for all costs and expenses in connection with such work 
within 10 days after a written demand for reimbursement and reasonable documentation 
to support such costs. In addition, the permittee shall indemnify, defend and hold the City, 
its agents, officers, officials, employees and volunteers harmless from and against any 
Claims in connection with rearranging or relocating the permittee’s facility, or turning on 
or off any water, oil, gas, electricity or other utility service in connection with the 
permittee’s facility. 
 
21. 
Landscaping. The permittee shall replace any landscape features damaged or displaced 
by the construction, installation, operation, maintenance or other work performed by the 
permittee or at the permittee’s direction on or about the site. In the event that any trees 
are damaged or displaced, the permittee shall hire and pay for a licensed arborist to 
select, plant and maintain replacement landscaping in an appropriate location for the 
species. Only ISA Certified workers under the supervision of a licensed arborist shall be 
used to install the replacement tree(s). The box size and other standards for any 
replacement trees shall be subject to the City’s approval in consultation with the licensed 
arborist. The permittee shall, at all times, be responsible to maintain any replacement 
landscape features. 
 
337 of 445

--- page 338 ---
I.
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILTIES FACILITIES PERMIT
 
 
 
1.
Minor and MajorWireless Permits Application Fee
Min Deposit Per Location 
$7,54,000.00
 
Request to place a new facility or substantial modification of an existing facility in the public 
ROW.  This minimum deposit listed is required at the pre-application phase. The deposit will 
cover field visits, engineering review of the existing or proposed facilities, inspections during 
construction, the cost of hiring an independent consultant with specialized or expert knowledge 
in connection with wireless facilities, including, but not limited to:  permit application 
completeness and/or accuracy, compliance with RF emissions, gap in services, alternative sites 
analysis, inspection during construction, and administrative time to process the permit 
application. At the time of permit issuance, additional funds may be required to be added to the 
deposit if the deposit balance is less than estimated, as determined by the City.  Any portion 
not expended by the City is refundable.  Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off.
 
 
2.
Master License Agreement Fee
Min Deposit Per New 
Agreement
$1,000.00
(Amendments charged at actual cost per hourly rate)
$200/hour
3.
License Fee for City Pole (subject to 3% annual increase)
Annual fee for each attachment to a municipality – owned structure in the public right-of-way
Per Location
$270/year
 
2.
338 of 445

--- page 339 ---
4.
Section 6409 Permit
Min Deposit Per Location
$4,02,500.00
Request to modify an existing facility in the public ROW.  If modifications are deemed 
substantial, applicant shall apply for a Minor or Major Permit.  This minimum deposit listed is 
required at the pre-application phase and will cover field visits, engineering review of the 
existing or proposed facilities, inspections during construction, the cost of hiring an 
independent consultant with specialized or expert knowledge in connection with wireless 
facilities, including, but not limited to: permit application completeness and/or accuracy, 
compliance with RF emissions, gap in services, alternative sites analysis, inspections during 
construction, and administrative time to process the permit application. At the time of permit 
issuance, additional funds may be required to be added to the deposit if the deposit balance is 
less than estimated, as determined by the City.  Any portion not expended by the City is 
refundable.  Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off.
5.
Hourly Rate for City Labor/Services
$200/hour
339 of 445

--- page 340 ---
AT&T’s Comments on San Mateo, CA’s Wireless Communications Facilities in the Public 
Right-of-Way Ordinance and Design Standards  
 
• AT&T thanks the city for considering changes to its wireless regulations. AT&T offers 
the following comments and summary of key legal concepts to help the city revise its 
regulations to foster responsible deployments and to fully comply with applicable laws. 
 
Key Legal Concepts 
 
• The Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 (“Act”) establishes key limitations on local 
regulations. Under the Act, the city must not prohibit or effectively prohibit wireless 
services. See 47 U.S.C. §§ 253(a), 332(c)(7)(B)(i)(II). The city must act “within a 
reasonable period of time” on each application. 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(B)(ii).  
 
• The FCC has codified “shot clocks” – presumptive maximum timeframes for processing 
applications. Violations of the shot clocks may result in unlawful effective prohibitions 
under the Act, and can result in deemed approval under state law. Cal. Govt. Code § 
65964.1(a). Similarly, eligible facilities requests (EFRs) are deemed granted under 
federal law when the city fails to approve within the shot clock. The FCC has made clear 
that the city must grant all necessary approvals and authorizations within the applicable 
shot clock,1 and the shot clock applies “to all aspects of and steps in the siting process.”2 
 
• Section 6409(a) of the 2012 Spectrum Act, 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a), requires the city to 
approve modifications to the extent they do not substantially change the physical 
dimensions of the existing facilities. The FCC has established objective criteria to 
determine whether a proposal is an EFR that must be approved (see 47 C.F.R. § 
1.6100(b)(7)), and the FCC has established procedures, including a 60-day shot clock and 
a deemed grant remedy for failure to timely approve an EFR (see 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(c)). 
The FCC also released two orders in 2020 that provide additional interpretation and 
guidance on EFRs that the city must approve. 
 
• The FCC’s Small Cell Order established an aesthetic standard for small cells. To be 
lawful, aesthetic requirements must be reasonable, i.e., technically feasible and published 
in advance.3 
 
• The FCC’s Small Cell Order also established a standard and safe harbor for lawful fees 
for small cell applications. To be lawful and passed on to applicants, fees must be 
reasonable, cost-based, and nondiscriminatory. Excessive fees cannot be charged to 
applicants even if they represent true costs.4 The FCC’s safe harbor sets the ceiling for 
 
1 See Accelerating Wireless Broadband Deployment by Removing Barriers to Infrastructure Investment, Declaratory 
Ruling and Third Report and Order, FCC 18-133, 30 FCC Rcd 9088 at ¶¶ 132-137. (September 27, 2018) (“Small 
Cell Order”). 
2 Id. at ¶ 132. 
3 Id. at ¶ 50. 
4 Id. at ¶ 70. Federal courts have reached the same conclusion with respect to applications for other wireless facilities 
as well. 
340 of 445

--- page 341 ---
City of San Mateo 
June 7, 2021 
Page 2 of 8 
 
presumptively reasonable fees, and the city bears the burden to show that any additional 
fees are justified under the fee standard. The Ninth Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals has 
upheld the FCC’s fee standard, including the FCC’s safe harbor fee amounts. 
 
• AT&T has a statewide franchise right to access and construct telecommunications 
facilities in the public rights-of-way under Public Utilities Code Section 7901. 
AT&T’s Comments 
 
• Placements of Freestanding Poles. Banning placement of facilities on freestanding poles 
in residential areas, “near” schools, and parks is too imprecise and creates a substantial 
risk of effectively prohibiting wireless services. Considering the layout of San Mateo, this 
requirement will likely result in broad prohibitions of service in violation of the 
Telecommunications Act of 1996. There are large residential parts of the city where well-
designed small cells will need to be sited to meet customer needs, so the city should 
amend its design standards to express siting preferences rather than prohibitions. Further, 
to the extent these restrictions amount to an indirect means to address fears about radio 
frequency emissions, they are preempted by federal law. Moreover, a 250-foot separation 
between sites on freestanding poles is unreasonable in areas with high network traffic 
(such as intersections).  
 
AT&T’s statement is not accurate. The City standards do not ban placement of facilities 
on freestanding poles in residential areas, near schools, or parks. Provision #13 of the 
Placement Requirements provides that applicants shall “avoid, when reasonably feasible, 
placement in residential areas, near schools, and parks.” There is nothing in the 
applicable federal law or FCC Orders which prevents the City from having such a 
preference for pole placement.  The City does not believe that such a preference would 
effectively prohibit wireless services.  
 
• Prohibited Attachments. The design standards improperly ban attachments to non-
standard, decorative streetlights, wooden streetlights, or traffic signals. The city must 
avoid restrictions that could broadly prohibit service in certain parts of the city. Traffic 
light attachments preserve aesthetics by allowing providers to cover busy areas in 
multiple directions from one site. And the city should allow new or replacement 
decorative poles housing wireless facilities that are designed to look similar to nearby 
decorative poles. 
 
The FCC has confirmed that cities may impose certain aesthetic considerations as long as 
they are reasonable, no more burdensome than those applied to other types of 
infrastructure deployments, and objective. 
 
The City’s design standards, including the limitations on where facilities may be located,  
are intended to protect and promote the health, safety and aesthetic/visual character of the 
City and its neighborhoods. The City believes that these design standards adequately 
comply with the FCC’s limitations. Additionally, the City does not believe that these 
restrictions would in any way “effectively prohibit” a carrier’s ability to provide service 
341 of 445

--- page 342 ---
City of San Mateo 
June 7, 2021 
Page 3 of 8 
 
given the limited nature of the location restrictions, as well as the numerous other 
locations where wireless carriers may install their facilities.  
 
• Fees. The city needs to bring its fees for wireless permits in line with federal law. The 
fees far exceed the FCC’s safe harbor for lawful small cell fees, and the city has not 
provided justification for the fees. The city also should not incur $4,000 in EFR review 
costs. Federal law mandates approval of EFRs, and the FCC has provided applicable 
objective criteria for review of EFRs, so only minimal time and resources would be 
needed to review EFR requests. 
 
The $4,000 is a deposit only, and not an actual charge.  
 
Additionally, the FCC specifically provides that fees higher than the safe harbor levels 
“would be permissible under Sections 253 and 332 to the extent a locality’s actual, 
reasonable costs” are also higher. (FCC 2018 Order, paragraph 32). 
 
The City’s fees comply with the FCC ruling: the fees are a reasonable approximation of 
the City’s costs; only objectively reasonable costs will be assessed; and fees are no higher 
than fees charged to similarly-situated competitors in similar situations.  
 
• Eligible Facilities Requests. Many of the city’s application requirements apply to EFRs. 
Federal law, however, expressly limits the scope of the city’s review of EFRs, so the city 
can only require information reasonably related to determining whether a request 
qualifies as an EFR. The city’s application requirements and checklist seek more 
documents and information than is necessary to determine whether a request is for an 
EFR. The city must limit its requirements to the Section 6409 Evaluation form outlined in 
its application checklist. 
 
The City would like to note that it already does not require certain items for Section 6409 
requests. These items are indicated on the checklist, using an asterix(*), and include the 
Project Purpose (Att 10) and Alternative Sites Analysis (Att 11). 
 
As for the other required items, the City believes that they are within its authority. 
Section 6409 requires local agencies to approve collocation on existing facilities and the 
removal or replacement of existing facilities where there is not a substantial change to the 
physical dimensions of the facilities. However, all EFRs must still comply with all 
generally applicable laws; many of the items on the checklist are necessary to 
demonstrate compliance with such laws. Additionally, a city may require information to 
show that Section 6409(a) applies (including building and safety code compliance).  
Moreover, although a City’s review may be limited for EFRs, this does not prohibit a city 
from still imposing certain conditions of approval. 
 
 
 
342 of 445

--- page 343 ---
City of San Mateo 
June 7, 2021 
Page 4 of 8 
 
• Duration of an EFR Permit. The city cannot limit an EFR permit’s duration to the term of 
the underlying permit because California law requires a minimum term of 10 years for 
wireless siting approvals.  
 
The permit says it’s valid for 10 years.   
 
• Project Purpose and Technical Objective (Non-EFRs). The city requires applicants to 
describe technical objectives, submit propagation maps, and provide a written narrative 
describing the uses of its facilities as part of an application package. Providers should not 
need to justify or demonstrate the need of a proposed facility. Indeed, the FCC has 
rejected all “coverage gap” tests, including specifically rejecting the judicially-created 
least intrusive means test for filling a coverage gap.5 Moreover, the required information 
doesn’t make sense for small cell deployments.  
 
The City requires this information to consider its preferences and the availability of least 
intrusive means to mitigate a significant gap in the provider’s service as part of its 
aesthetic concerns. The FCC’s Small Cell Order also acknowledges local aesthetic 
concerns in fn. 94 and within the Order. 
 
Additionally, there is nothing in the FCC small cell order that preempts the City from still 
requiring information regarding the proposed project’s technical service objectives. 
Although the FCC may disfavor “decisions that have applied solely a ‘coverage gap’- 
based approach under Section 332(c)(7)(B)(i)(II)” (see FCC Order ¶ 40), this does not 
mean that the FCC intended to completely limit a city’s consideration of or a city’s 
access to such information. Many other cities also require such similar information. 
 
That being said, and to respond to AT&T’s comments, the City has edited the Design 
Standards to remove the requirements in Appendix B regarding propagation maps. 
 
• Alternative Site Analysis (Small Cells). Rather than requiring an alternative site analysis 
for each wireless permit application, AT&T echoes Verizon’s suggestion that the city 
narrow its requirement to evaluating any more preferred locations within 250 feet of the 
provider’s chosen site, and to demonstrate that those locations are technically infeasible 
or unavailable.  
 
The City is not aware of any law which would restrict it from imposing a 500 foot search 
ring radius. This radius is required by other neighboring cities in the area as well.  
 
• Accessory Equipment Volume (Small Cells). The city must allow up to 28 cubic feet of 
accessory equipment to be consistent with 47 C.F.R. § 1.6002(l)(3). 
 
 
5 Small Cell Order at ¶ 40, n.94. 
343 of 445

--- page 344 ---
City of San Mateo 
June 7, 2021 
Page 5 of 8 
 
47 CFR 1.6002(l)(3) provides that all wireless equipment associated with a small cell 
wireless facility structure may not exceed 28 cubic feet in volume. However, the statute 
does not prohibit a City from limiting the allowable volume further.   
 
• Neighborhood Meeting. Strongly encouraging a neighborhood meeting is unnecessary, 
likely unproductive, and serves only to drive up costs and risk shot clock compliance. 
This is especially so for EFRs, which the city must promptly approve. 
 
The FCC Order specifically states that the FCC “encourage[s] voluntary pre-application 
discussions”. (See FCC Order ¶ 146). Additionally, the FCC stated that such meetings 
“can clarify key aspects of the application review process … and may speed the pace of 
review.” Moreover, the FCC clarified that such voluntary pre-application discussions 
would not start the shot clock; (“…the shot clock will begin when an application is filed, 
presumably after the pre-application review has concluded.”( ¶ 146)). 
 
The neighborhood meeting discussed in the City’s regulations is voluntary, and therefore 
would not trigger the shot clock. The City believes that the neighborhood meetings would 
be very productive and helpful for applicants to understand the concerns and preferences 
of the community.  
 
• Consultants. The city needs to be careful and limit its use of consultants to technical 
matters, such as structural analysis. The FCC has cautioned municipalities against 
excessive charges, including fees for consultant review, which cannot be passed on to 
applicants. 
 
The FCC does not state that consultant fees may not be recovered from the applicant. The 
FCC only cautions cities from charging “fees that recover more than the state or local 
costs associated with facilities deployment—or that are based on unreasonable costs, 
such as exorbitant consultant fees or the like—”. (FCC Order ¶56). The City’s fees are 
not based on any exorbitant consultant fees.  Cities are permitted to recover “a reasonable 
approximation of their costs related to the deployment of Small Wireless Facilities.” 
(FCC Order ¶56).   
 
• Notice. A 500-foot radius for public noticing and a requirement to maintain a log of all 
communications from residents is excessive for low-power, low-profile small cells. A 
notice requirement for EFRs is also unnecessary because the city “may not deny, and 
shall approve” applications for EFRs that meet the requirements of Section 6409(a). 
 
The City’s 500-foot radius for public noticing matches neighboring cities’ notification 
requirements for wireless facilities. Additionally, interested parties should still be 
provided notice of EFRs, regardless of the approval process.   
 
• Appeals. The city’s appeal process sets the city up to violate the shot clock on a regular 
basis resulting in effective prohibition for small cells and deemed grants for EFRs. 
 
344 of 445

--- page 345 ---
City of San Mateo 
June 7, 2021 
Page 6 of 8 
 
The City took into consideration the FCC shot clocks when drafting the appeal process, 
and fully intends to meet such deadlines. It is for this reason that interested parties were 
limited to only 5 calendar days to file an appeal.  
 
• Less Obtrusive Designs. AT&T asks that the city clarify that it will not require providers 
to upgrade small cells using “less obtrusive” designs in the middle of a permit term 
(which cannot be shorter than ten years per state law). AT&T also cautions the city 
against dictating technology, which is preempted by federal law. 
 
The City’s “Least Obtrusive” aesthetic condition is with regards to a wireless facility’s 
“appearance, size, and location”. The City has the authority to impose aesthetic 
conditions as long as they are reasonable. The City is not dictating technology as AT&T 
is suggesting.  
 
The City is not sure which provision AT&T’s comment is in reference to exactly. Except 
for perhaps a public safety issue, the City does not believe the guidelines require a 
provider to change their design in the middle of a permit term.   
 
 
• Pole Top Antennas. The city should reconsider requiring antennas to be placed on top of 
poles, which will unlawfully prohibit wireless service by unduly limiting technology and 
equipment configurations. And side-mounted antennas are sometimes required due to 
space constraints on existing utility poles. 
 
The City made the following edits (new language indicated with underline): 
 
13. Antenna Locations.  To the maximum extent technically feasible, antennas shall be 
placed at the top of the pole and shall be shrouded to the maximum extent feasible. 
 
The City also added the following provisions regarding antennas:  
 
14. Shrouding. All antennas and associated cables, jumpers, wires, mounts, masts, 
brackets and other connectors and hardware shall be installed within a single shroud or 
radome to the maximum extent technically feasible. For wireless facilities on utility 
poles, all antennas shall be shrouded, and located at the top of the pole or strand-
mounted, to the maximum extent technically feasible. For pole-top antennas, the shroud 
shall not exceed 2.5 times the median pole diameter and must taper down to pole. For 
side-arm antennas, the shroud shall cover the cross arm and any cables, jumpers, wires or 
other connectors between the vertical riser and the antenna. 
 
15. Antenna Volume. Each individual antenna associated with a single wireless facility 
shall not exceed 3 cubic feet. The cumulative volume for all antennas on a single wireless 
facility shall not exceed: (A) 3 cubic feet in residential areas; or (B) 6 cubic feet in 
nonresidential areas. 
 
345 of 445

--- page 346 ---
City of San Mateo 
June 7, 2021 
Page 7 of 8 
 
16. Horizontal Projection. Side-mounted antennas, where permitted, shall not project: (A) 
more than 2 feet from the support structure; (B) over any roadway for vehicular travel; or 
(C) over any abutting private property. If applicable laws require a side-mounted antenna 
to project more than 2 feet from the support structure, the projection shall be no greater 
than required for compliance with such laws. Pole-mounted antennas and accessory 
equipment should be installed in a manner that minimizes horizontal projections, which 
includes, without limitation, installing equipment within the pole or as flush to the pole as 
possible. 
 
• Network Map. The city should not require an applicant’s network map identifying future 
facilities planned within two years. AT&T does not have a list of facilities planned far 
into the future as its facility plans are constantly developing to address network needs. 
 
The City is only requesting “future wireless facilities that are reasonably foreseeable 
within two years of the application submission.”  
 
• Locating Hardware Inside the Pole. The city requires conduit, wires, and other hardware 
to be located within the pole. To avoid prohibitions, these types of requirements should 
be revised by adding “to the extent feasible.” 
 
The City has the authority to impose aesthetic conditions as long as they are reasonable. 
The FCC specifies that aesthetic requirements may be imposed to help a city avoid “the 
intangible public harm of unsightly or out-of-character” wireless facilities. 
 
• Undergrounding. Requirements that equipment be installed underground need to be 
limited to the extent reasonably feasible and practical. Antennas and radios need to be 
above ground near enough to one another to function properly. And undergrounding 
requirements are unnecessary for stealth sites. 
 
The City may require undergrounding requirements as long as such requirements are 
“reasonable”. The City already has language in the standards similar to AT&T’s request.  
 
o Design Standards, provision #17, the City does specify that “cables and 
connectors … must be routed underground to the extent feasible…” 
o Provision #17 “To the extent feasible, undergrounded cables and wires must 
transition directly into the pole base without any external doghouse. 
 
That being said, and to respond to AT&T’s comments, the City does agree to edit the City’s 
Standards of Approval, #16 “Underground Utilities” to add the underlined language below as 
follows: 
 
“16. Underground Utilities. In the event that other public utilities or cable television 
operators in the public right-of-way underground their facilities where the permittee’s 
wireless facility is located, the permittee must underground its equipment except the antennas 
346 of 445

--- page 347 ---
City of San Mateo 
June 7, 2021 
Page 8 of 8 
 
and antenna supports to the extent technically feasible. Such undergrounding shall occur at 
the permittee’s sole cost and expense except as reimbursed pursuant to law.” 
 
 
• Electric Meters. One of the city’s conditions of approval requires providers to swap out 
electric meters in the middle of a permit term under certain circumstances. Once AT&T 
installs a separate or ground-mounted electric meter, the facility is permitted to remain 
for the permit term. 
 
The City believes this comment is in reference to Standard Condition of Approval #17. This 
is required by the Building Code and is out of the City’s hands. 
 
347 of 445

--- page 348 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO RESPONSE TO VERIZON LETTER DATED JUNE 7, 2021 
 
Draft Standards (pp. 4-6) 
1. Least obtrusive. Despite a revision striking a reference to installations in other 
jurisdictions, this criterion is still problematic. The vague “least obtrusive” criteria could 
be used to deny small cells that otherwise satisfy the City’s more specific design 
standards. Such denials frustrate staff in their faithful implementation of the standards, as 
well as applicants, and also “materially inhibit” service improvements in violation of 
federal law. This item should be deleted. 
 
The provision reads the “least obtrusive possible”, and the City does specify that this is with 
regards to “appearance, size, and location”. This provision is intended to instruct the applicant to 
take into consideration the obtrusiveness and impact of the proposed wireless installation, and to 
the extent possible, try to minimize its impact in terms of size, appearance and location. The City 
does not believe that this provision in any way would “materially inhibit” service improvements 
in violation of federal law. 
 
That being said, and to respond to Verizon’s comments, the City revised its design standards as 
follows (new language indicated with underline), to clarify that an application will not be denied 
solely because it is not the least obtrusive: 
 
1. Least Obtrusive.  Proposed installations should be the least obtrusive possible in 
compliance with the City’s Design Standards, with regard to appearance, size, and 
location.   If installations are available that are less obtrusive than those allowed by the 
City’s wireless communications facilities ordinance, applicants must use those 
installations unless the City determines that those installations are not feasible. 
 
 
2. Pole heights minimized. While this provision properly acknowledges the antenna 
separation distance above utility pole conductors required by General Order 95, it also 
must allow for the antenna itself. Further, pole-top antennas may be placed on utility 
poles that do not carry electricity and are not subject to General Order 95. The phrase 
should be revised to read: “…four feet, plus the minimum separation from supply lines 
required by CPUC General Order 95….” 
 
The City made the following changes in response to Verizon’s comment (new language 
indicated with underline): 
 
2. Pole heights shall be minimized. The maximum height of any facilities mounted on an 
existing utility pole shall not exceed 4 feet, plus the minimum separation from supply 
lines required by CPUC General Order 95 (GO 95), as may be amended or superseded. 
Legally required lightning arresters and beacons shall be included when calculating the 
height of facilities. For wireless facilities placed on any new freestanding poles, the pole 
height, inclusive of all equipment, shall not exceed 35 feet.   
 
 
348 of 445

--- page 349 ---
13. Antennas. This provision requires placement of antennas at the top of a pole. 
However, for utility poles that carry electricity, antennas may be mounted to the middle 
of the pole in the communication utility zone, below electric conductors. If a mid-mount 
is required per General Order 95 or PG&E safety rules, then mandating a pole-top 
antenna would be technically infeasible and unreasonable. This provision must be 
revised to accommodate mid-mount antennas on utility poles. The utility pole standards 
(pp. 21-22) should be revised accordingly. 
 
The City made the following edits in response to Verizon’s comment (new language indicated 
with underline): 
 
13. Antenna Locations.  To the maximum extent technically feasible, antennas shall be 
placed at the top of the pole and shall be shrouded to the maximum extent feasible. 
 
The City also added the following provisions regarding antennas:  
 
14. Shrouding. All antennas and associated cables, jumpers, wires, mounts, masts, 
brackets and other connectors and hardware shall be installed within a single shroud or radome 
to the maximum extent technically feasible. For wireless facilities on utility poles, all antennas 
shall be shrouded, and located at the top of the pole or strand-mounted, to the maximum extent 
technically feasible. For pole-top antennas, the shroud shall not exceed 2.5 times the median pole 
diameter and must taper down to pole. For side-arm antennas, the shroud shall cover the cross 
arm and any cables, jumpers, wires or other connectors between the vertical riser and the 
antenna. 
 
15. Antenna Volume. Each individual antenna associated with a single wireless facility 
shall not exceed 3 cubic feet. The cumulative volume for all antennas on a single wireless facility 
shall not exceed: (A) 3 cubic feet in residential areas; or (B) 6 cubic feet in nonresidential areas. 
 
16. Horizontal Projection. Side-mounted antennas, where permitted, shall not project: (A) 
more than 2 feet from the support structure; (B) over any roadway for vehicular travel; or (C) 
over any abutting private property. If applicable laws require a side-mounted antenna to project 
more than 2 feet from the support structure, the projection shall be no greater than required for 
compliance with such laws. Pole-mounted antennas and accessory equipment should be installed 
in a manner that minimizes horizontal projections, which includes, without limitation, installing 
equipment within the pole or as flush to the pole as possible. 
 
 
17. Utilities. The City cannot forbid new aerial lines where there are already lines 
attached to a utility pole. An additional line is not “out-of-character” among existing 
aerial lines, and the standard would be unreasonable according to the FCC. This attempts 
to regulate the electric and communication backhaul lines belonging to other companies, 
installed under separate franchises or permits. The City should allow new aerial lines 
where already attached to utility poles. 
 
349 of 445

--- page 350 ---
The City does not have an outright prohibition on new aerial lines. Instead, the City requires that 
cables be routed underground “to the extent feasible”.  
 
That being said, the City made the following changes (new language indicated with underline): 
 
20. Utilities. All cables and connectors for telephone, primary electric and other similar 
utilities shall be routed underground to the extent feasible in conduits large enough to 
accommodate future collocated wireless facilities. To the extent feasible, undergrounded cables 
and wires must transition directly into the pole base without any external doghouse. Meters, 
panels, disconnect switches and other associated improvements must be placed in inconspicuous 
locations to the extent possible and technically feasible. The City shall not approve new 
overhead utility lines or service drops merely because compliance with the undergrounding 
requirements would increase the project cost. In areas with existing overhead lines, new 
communication lines shall be “overlashed” with existing communication lines to the extent 
technically feasible. Microwave or other wireless backhaul is discouraged when it would involve 
a separate and unconcealed antenna. 
 
Application Requirements 
Project purpose and technical objectives. This information bears no relation to the 
required findings and standards for approval right-of-way facilities. Further, the City 
cannot require such information regarding need because Public Utilities Code Section 
7901 grants telephone corporations such as Verizon Wireless a statewide right to place 
their equipment along any right-of-way. The FCC determined that small cells are needed 
to enhance service, introduce new services and densify networks, which are Verizon Wireless’s 
objectives in placing small cells in San Mateo. The FCC also disfavored dated service standards 
based on “coverage gaps” and the like, so the coverage/capacity information, propagation maps, 
drive test data and network maps sought by this submittal requirement are preempted.3 This 
submittal requirement should be deleted. 
 
There is nothing in the FCC small cell order, or in Public Utilities Code Section 7901 that 
preempts the City from requiring information regarding the proposed project’s technical service 
objectives and the nature of existing service capabilities. Although the FCC may disfavor 
“decisions that have applied solely a ‘coverage gap’- based approach under Section 
332(c)(7)(B)(i)(II)” (see FCC Order ¶ 40), this does not mean that the FCC intended to limit a 
city’s access to such information or prohibit any consideration of existing coverage. Many other 
cities also require such similar information. 
 
That being said, and to respond to Verizon’s comments, the City has edited the Design Standards 
to remove the requirements in Appendix B regarding propagation maps. 
 
 
Alternative site analysis. If a proposed small cell is in the most-preferred location according to 
the Design Standards’ site location preferences, there is no reason to analyze alternatives. As 
noted, propagation maps are inapplicable to small cells in the right-of way, and should not be 
required. This item should be revised so an alternatives analysis 
350 of 445

--- page 351 ---
is not required if siting in a preferred location, and the reference to propagation maps should be 
deleted. 
 
There is nothing in the FCC order or applicable federal law that prohibits the City from requiring 
such an alternative site analysis. 
 
As discussed above, the City deleted the requirements in Appendix B regarding propagation 
maps. 
 
 
351 of 445

--- page 352 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  18
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 21-4927
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
July 19, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Transition to Elections By-District – Updated Schedule
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an updated schedule to transition to district-based elections and authorize staff to make 
adjustments, as needed, to the schedule.
BACKGROUND:
On May 24, 2021, the City received a certified letter from attorney Scott Rafferty asserting that the City’s current at-large 
election system may violate the California Voting Rights Act and stating the City should voluntarily move to a district-based 
election system for electing City Council members. On June 21, 2021, the City Council adopted Resolution No. 69 (2021), 
stating the City’s intention to transition from at-large to by-district elections. Appended to that Resolution was an exhibit 
outlining two tentative timelines for the required public hearing schedule. The first schedule showed the estimated timing 
for transitioning to by-district elections within 90 days from adopting the resolution of intention per Elections Code Section 
10010.  This initial 90-day period ends on September 20, 2021. The second timeline incorporated a 90-day extension, if an 
agreement could be reached with Mr. Rafferty, and as authorized by Elections Code Section 10010. 
This is a seminal change to how voters elect their City Council members and the City has stated publicly its commitment to 
a robust public outreach and its interest in using the latest 2020 US Census data. 
90-Day Timing Scenario 
Under the 90-day timing scenario, the City would have to complete the entire process of holding five public hearings to 
receive input from communities of interest, solicit map drawing from the public, and have a discussion regarding election 
sequencing all completed by September 20, 2021. This timeline would significantly limit the City’s ability to engage the 
community, particularly hard-to-reach underrepresented community members, through additional outreach 
opportunities. 
Furthermore, under this scenario, the City would not be able to use the latest 2020 US Census data, which is scheduled to 
be released in late September 2021, just days after the September 20, 2021 deadline. The City would then need to 
immediately begin a redistricting process, thereby having to conduct a second series of public hearings and outreach to 
adjust the district maps to align with the 2020 Census data in time for elections in November 2022. This would result in 
significant additional financial expenses and would likely be confusing to the public. 
Preferred Extended Timing Scenario 
Instead, the City sought to use a 90-day extension in order to use updated 2020 Census data and engage in a significantly 
more robust public outreach campaign. The City would conduct one set of public hearings (five in all), host at least three 
additional community workshops, attend numerous pop-up events, and hold significant outreach meetings with service 
352 of 445

--- page 353 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
organizations and neighborhoods to ensure we are receiving input from all of the community’s stakeholders. This allows 
the City to draw maps once, using the most current census data. The process culminates with the adoption of an ordinance 
outlining the election sequencing and the official district map to be used for the next decade. 
The City has negotiated at length with Mr. Rafferty for a 90-day extension agreement to complete the transition to district-
based elections.  However, these negotiations have been unsuccessful.  Nevertheless, the City is proposing using the 
second extended timing scenario, with a hearing schedule that would complete the process by November 15, 2021 
through the adoption of an ordinance transitioning to district elections. This allows approximately two more months of 
robust public outreach through multiple avenues of public input and use of the most current Census data to draw district 
maps that best reflect the community of San Mateo. This schedule would also not require a full 90-day extension.  
It is recommended that the City adopt the proposed resolution that includes Exhibit A, which outlines the public hearing 
schedule with proposed additional public outreach opportunities to be undertaken and authorizes staff to make 
adjustments to the schedule as needed. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no additional budget impact from this administrative action.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This approval of public hearing and community outreach schedule is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an 
organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution with Exhibit A – District Schedule
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
353 of 445

--- page 354 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2021) 
 
APPROVAL OF UPDATED PROPOSED TIMEFRAME TO TRANSITION FROM AT-LARGE TO BY-DISTRICT ELECTIONS 
UNDER ELECTIONS CODE SECTION 10010 AND TENTATIVE PUBLIC OUTREACH SCHEDULE 
 
 
WHEREAS, on June 21, 2021, in response to a letter from attorney Scott Raffety regarding City 
compliance with the California Voting Rights Act, the Council adopted Resolution No. 69 (2021) declaring an 
intent to transition from at-large to by-district council member elections under Elections Code Section 10010.  
The Resolution included a tentative calendar with two different timing scenarios; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, Elections Code Section 10010 provides for an initial 90 days from the adoption of a resolution 
of intent to accomplish the public process to move from at-large elections to by-district elections, and allows for 
an extension of an additional 90 days in order to provide additional time to conduct public outreach, encourage 
public participation, and receive public input; and 
 
WHEREAS, 2020 U.S. Census data is scheduled to be released in late September 2021, and the City 
would be required to use this data to draw its district maps.  However, the initial 90-day timeframe ends before 
the release of up-to-date Census data; and 
 
WHEREAS, having to immediately redraw district boundaries using 2020 Census data following the 
completion of the transition to district elections would be duplicative, confusing and costly; and  
 
 
WHEREAS, the City desires to use additional time to conduct a more comprehensive public process that 
also incorporates 2020 U.S. Census data in a single process that will utilize five public hearings along with robust 
public outreach to garner significant input from the community; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City fully intends to complete the transition under the CVRA within the extended 
timeline, and establish district boundaries no later than six months before its next Regular Election on 
November 8, 2022, consistent with Elections Code Section 10010(e)(3)(c)(i); and  
 
 
WHEREAS, the City’s proposed timeline, attached to this resolution as Exhibit A and incorporated by 
reference, outlines a process in which an ordinance transitioning the City to by-district elections and approving a 
district map would be adopted by November 15, 2021. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:  
 
1. Exhibit A to this resolution entitled City of San Mateo Districting Proposed Timelines and Public 
Outreach Schedule is hereby approved.  
354 of 445

--- page 355 ---
EXHIBIT A (Revised) 
City of San Mateo 
Districting Proposed Timelines and Public Outreach Schedule 
Activity 
Proposed Schedule 
Received Demand Letter 
5/24/2021 
Adopted a Resolution of Intention 
6/21/2021 
Pop-up Music in the Park 
7/29/21 & 8/5/21 
Direct Mailing to all addresses in the City with outreach schedule 
wk of 8/1 
City Services Academy - City Manager presentation 
8/18/2021 
Community Meeting #1 - Saturday (two: one at library & one at King Center in Spanish) 
8/21/2021 
Hold Public Hearing #1 to gather input from communities of interest (no draft maps drawn 
until these are complete) No more than 30 days apart between Hearing #1 and #2 
8/23/21 @ 6pm 
Hold Public Hearing #2 to gather input from communities of interest (no draft maps drawn 
until these are complete) No more than 30 days apart between Hearing #1 and #2 
9/13/21 @ 6pm 
Pop-up Movies in the Park (Every Friday in September) 
9/3, 9/10, 9/17 & 9/24 
Pop-up Bayfront Clean-up 
9/18/21 8 am-1pm 
Community Meeting #2 - Saturday (one at library) 
9/25/2021 
Hold Public Hearing #3 to gather public input on draft maps and election sequencing  
(Public Hearing #3 and #4 can be no more than 45 days apart). 
9/30/21 @ 6pm 
Census Data Release 
9/30/2021 
Insert in the Recology Bill 
10/1/2021 
Deadline for all initial draft maps posted on website at least 7 days prior to next round of 
public hearings 
10/7/2021 
Hold Public Hearing #4 to gather public input on revised draft maps (prison population 
adjusted final data) and election sequencing  
(Public Hearing #3 and #4 can be no more than 45 days apart). 
10/14/21 @ 6pm 
Community Meeting  #3 - Saturday (two: one at library & one at location to be determined) 
10/16/2021 
Deadline for all initial draft maps posted on website at least 7 days prior to next round of 
public hearings 
10/28/2021 
Hold Public Hearing #5 and introduction of ordinance (up/down vote - no map changes) - 
Regular Council Meeting  
11/1/2021 @ 7:30 pm 
Adopt Ordinance (Regular Meeting - Consent Calendar) per Elections Code Section 15, 
Sunday deadline moves to next business day 
11/15/2021 
Six Months before next regular election the ordinance must be adopted 
5/2/2022 
County Elections requires a map showing the boundaries of the district and which distracts 
are to be elected for the general municipal election  
5/12/2022 
First District Election 
11/8/2022 
 
Legend for color coding 
Not color coded are Public Hearing dates and deadlines 
Pop Up at Community Events 
8 
Community Meetings with Presentations in Person Total 
3 to 6 
Possibility of up to four Rotating presence at COSM Farmers Market on Saturday 9-1 - (TBD 
eight opportunities) 
8/14 - 11/6 
 
As of 7/15/21  
355 of 445

--- page 356 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  19
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 21-4844
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
July 19, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Downtown Surplus Properties – Selection of Development Team
RECOMMENDATION:
Direct staff to negotiate an Exclusive Negotiating Agreement with the Prometheus/Harvest Properties/Alta Housing 
development team to explore the development of affordable housing on the City-owned parking lot located at East 4th 
Avenue and South Railroad Avenue (Talbot’s parking lot) and reject the other proposals submitted for the East 4th Avenue 
and South Railroad Avenue and for the 308 East 5th Avenue (Ravioli parking lot) sites. 
BACKGROUND:
The City received inquiries from real estate developers interested in developing two surface parking lots Downtown 
including the 57-space Talbot’s lot directly behind the former Talbot’s store accessed at E. 4th Avenue and S. Railroad 
Avenue and the 40-space Ravioli House lot off of B Street between 5th and 6th Avenues. In order to explore future 
redevelopment opportunities on these sites, the City has to comply with the State’s Surplus Lands Act and first entertain 
proposals for affordable housing development on the properties before considering any other possible use.
City Council approved a resolution declaring the properties as “Surplus Land” at the January 4, 2021 City Council meeting. 
On January 7, 2021, staff released a Notice of Surplus Lands Availability to all housing developers that have registered with 
the State Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD). The Notice required interested parties to submit a 
letter of interest to develop affordable housing by March 8, 2021.  The City received 4 proposals in response to this letter 
from the following development teams:

Prometheus/Harvest Properties/Alta Housing (Talbots lot site)

MidPen Housing (Talbots lot site)

Mercy Housing (Talbots lot site)

West Development Ventures (both the Talbots and Ravioli lot sites)
The City Council reviewed the proposals during a Closed Session discussion on April 19, 2021. At the meeting, the 
Council directed staff to reject the proposal from West Development Ventures for developing the Talbot’s and Ravioli sites 
jointly since the proposal was for only 17 units across both properties, which is well below what would be considered the 
highest and best use of the sites. The City Council directed staff to put plans for the redevelopment of the Ravioli site on 
hold until it could be evaluated for rezoning, potentially as part of the General Plan process. Council directed staff to 
continue negotiations with the 3 remaining submitters for the Talbot’s site. The Council requested that the submitters 
revise their initial proposals to respond to the following parameters and Council questions:
1)
Develop an 100% affordable housing project featuring a range of unit sizes from studios up to 3-bedrooms. Project 
should accommodate a mix of incomes and age ranges.
2)
Maximize the number of units that can be accommodated on the site by building a 7-story project.
356 of 445

--- page 357 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
3)
Provide a ground floor space of approximately 5,000 square feet that can be used by the non-profit Self-Help for 
the Elderly. It can be assumed that they can contribute some amount to rent, but not likely a market rent, such as 
would be charged to a retailer. They will also provide some funding for their own tenant improvements.
4)
The City will contribute the land for the project in the form of a long-term ground lease.
5)
Specify the expected ask of financial assistance for the affordable housing from the City. It is expected that the 
development team will minimize the City’s financial assistance to the best possible extent by applying for multiple 
outside sources of financing.
6)
Indicate if the development team would consider trying to acquire the parcels immediately fronting the Talbot’s 
parking lot along B Street for a larger development site.
7)
Indicate if the development team would consider entering into a Project Labor Agreement for this project.
All three of the remaining submitters revised their proposals to accommodate these proposed project changes. A matrix 
comparing the details of the revised submittals is included as Attachment 1 to this report. Copies of the revised 
submissions as well as the original submission for each proposer are included as Attachments 2 through 5 of this report. 
Evaluation of Proposals
As a result of the parameters provided, the 3 submissions are similar in content. All are for 100% affordable housing 
projects providing a mix of unit sizes and serving a variety of household types. Additionally, all of the development teams 
were willing to provide space for the non-profit Self Help for the Elderly on the ground floor of the building. At the June 21, 
2021 Closed Session discussion, the City Council gave direction to staff on the key inputs to determine which team to 
select for exclusive negotiations for the Talbot’s parking lot site.
Although there are variations in the numbers of units proposed, each team did a very preliminary analysis of the 
development potential of the site for the purpose of the proposal. Staff believes that once more detailed architectural 
analysis has been completed and all applicable City zoning and design standards are applied, including required site set-
backs, that the numbers of units are likely to change and would be similar across all proposals. In addition, although the 3 
projects varied in the amount of additional affordable housing assistance they estimated they would need from the City, 
they will be accessing the same competitive outside financing sources and that the amount of City funding needed would 
be end up being similar for all of the proposals.
A critical factor that staff evaluated was the willingness and/or ability of the development teams to acquire adjacent 
properties. The Talbot’s parking lot is a small constrained site and is adjacent to parcels containing one-story retail 
buildings. If redeveloped into a 7-story building, as proposed, the transition in height between the development and the 
adjacent buildings would be hard to mitigate. The Prometheus/Harvest Properties/Alta Housing development team is 
already in contract for the former Talbot’s Toy Store property and has initiated efforts to acquire the other two properties 
on the block. The inclusion of additional parcels may result in the ability to provide more affordable housing units on the 
site as well as providing more parking spaces, which will offset the loss of redeveloping the public parking lot.
Another important factor for consideration was the affordability target of each of the proposals. Two of the three 
proposals include units targeting households up to 80% of Area Median Income (AMI) whereas the MidPen Housing 
proposal capped out at 60% AMI.  The Council indicated an interest in serving as broad a range of incomes as possible, 
including those approaching middle-income. In order to qualify for affordable housing financing, all of the projects would 
be required to achieve the same average level of affordability so the higher income units will be balanced by the provision 
of more very-low income units, which will achieve the same depth of affordability but serve a wider-range of income 
levels.
Selection of Development Team
Based on the evaluation of the revised proposals, staff recommends that the City Council direct staff to negotiate an 
Exclusive Negotiating Agreement (ENA) with the Prometheus/Harvest Properties/Alta Housing team to explore the 
redevelopment of the Talbot’s parking lot site in conjunction with other properties on the same block. Staff recommends 
that the City reject the remaining proposals for the Talbot’s parking lot site. The ENA would commit the City to not explore 
other development opportunities for the property during the time that the development team is pursuing project 
357 of 445

--- page 358 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
entitlements and negotiating the deal terms for a future Disposition and Development Agreement. The ENA would also 
commit the development team to a schedule of performance to ensure they are doing their due diligence and acting in a 
timely manner to move towards the redevelopment of the site. Staff plans to bring back the ENA for City Council approval 
in September.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The future disposition of the Talbot’s Parking lot site will not result in any revenue for the City since the land will be 
contributed to support the development of affordable housing on the site. In addition, commitment of other City 
affordable housing funds of approximately $2 million is anticipated to support the financing of the project.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because negotiating an Exclusive Negotiating Agreement to explore the terms 
for the potential disposition of property is not a project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the 
environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.) A future Disposition and Development Agreement for development 
on the property will be subject to CEQA.  
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Submittal Comparison Matrix
Att 2 – Prometheus, Harvest Properties, Alta Housing Proposal
Att 3 – MidPen Housing Proposal
Att 4 – Mercy Housing Proposal
Att 5 – West Development Ventures Proposal
Att 6 – Public Comment 
STAFF CONTACT
Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager
kkleinbaum@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7153
358 of 445

--- page 359 ---
Surplus Lands Act Submittals May 2021 ‐ Talbot's Parking Lot Site
Development Team
Total 
Affordable 
Units
Unit Types
Affordability 
Level
On‐site parking for 
housing
Space for Self‐
Help for the 
Elderly?
Other City 
affordable housing 
funds needed
Proposed 
Building 
Height
Willing to explore 
acquiring adjacent 
properties?
Willing to 
enter into a 
PLA?
Other notes
Prometheus/Harvest 
Properties/Alta 
52‐54
23% studio, 21% one 
bedroom, 27% two 
bedroom, 29% three 
bedroom
30‐80% AMI
37 spaces
5,000 sf
$2.0 million
7 story
Yes 
Yes
Project to be built in conjunction with 
118,760 sqft commercial project on 
adjacent lot Talbot's toy store. 
Commercial project will provide 53 
additional parking spaces.
MidPen Housing
56‐78
Different options: 15%‐
32% studio, 11%‐26% 
one bedroom, 29% two 
bedroom, 29% 3 
bedroom
30‐60% AMI
14‐20 spaces
3,800 to 5,000 sf
$0 to $4.4 million
7 or 8 story 
options
No
Preference 
against PLA
Provided multiple scenarios for 
consideration depending on setbacks and 
building height
Mercy Housing
69
17% studio, 32% one 
bedroom, 26% two 
bedroom, 25% three 
bedroom
30‐80% AMI
27‐33 spaces (using 
mechanical parking 
stackers)
3,000 to 4,300 sf
$3.0 million
7 story
Yes
Yes
West Development 
Partners
8
Not specified
60‐80% AMI
Will provide parking 
but amount not 
specified.
No
None
3 stories
N/A
N/A
Stated interest in developing both 
Talbots and Ravioli sites, maximum of 17 
units on both sites. Submittal as received 
in March 2021.
&nbsp;
359 of&nbsp;445

--- page 360 ---
May 27, 2021 
Ms. Kathy Kleinbaum 
City Manager’s Office 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
 
RE: 
Notice of Availability of Surplus Land – Response to Follow-up Proposal Parameters 
 
APNs: 034-179-050; 034-179-060 
 
Dear Ms. Kleinbaum: 
Thank you for the opportunity to respond to your questions and comments as described in the “Surplus 
Land’s Act Follow-up Proposal Parameters,” related to the surplus land owned by the City of San Mateo, 
located at the corner of S. Railroad Avenue and E. 4th Avenue in Downtown San Mateo (“Talbots City 
Lot”).   
 
Please consider the below response as supplemental information to the original proposal submitted on 
March 8, 2021, and the response to follow-up questions, provided on April 5, 2021.  As previously 
expressed, the Harvest Properties, Prometheus and Alta Housing team remain enthusiastic and 
dedicated to working collaboratively with you, your staff, and all City of San Mateo departments to 
advance the objectives and priorities of the City with respect to the site, which offers a unique 
opportunity to create a much needed supply of affordable housing for San Mateo’s residents as well as 
energize and beautify this part of Downtown San Mateo. 
 
In the following narrative, you will find a detailed response to each question posed.  Before delving into 
these details, we wanted to highlight four key elements or components of our proposed plan for your 
review and consideration.   
 
Project Vision:  Alignment with City Objectives 
Our development team is committed to providing a 100% affordable housing project on the Talbots City 
Lot that will feature a range of unit sizes from studios to 3-bedroom units, and will maximize the number 
of units that the site can accommodate in a 7-story project.  We understand that the City wants the 
project to accommodate a wide mix of income levels and age ranges, and can assure you that we share 
this as a critical and essential priority. 
 
As we mentioned in our April response letter to the City, if a Seniors residential community were the 
preferred direction, based on a unit mix that includes all studio and 1-bedroom units, the preliminary 
design for the site yields approximately 80 units of housing. This is a viable option that our development 
team would be very interested and open to pursuing in collaboration with the City.  We are equally 
committed to developing a Family-oriented project, if the City opted to move in that direction.  Based on 
our current design and yield analysis, a Family-oriented project would generate 52-54 housing units, and 
house 138 residents (according to HUD guidelines).  In this development scenario, the unit mix would 
consist of over 50% of the units as two and three-bedrooms and the income levels would range from 
30% to 80% AMI, with an average income level of approximately 43%. 
360 of 445

--- page 361 ---
Our team has a shared commitment to provide our residents of all ages with services which are 
resident-drive, strength-based, impactful, and empowering.  As you can see in the attached Site Plan 
Exhibit, located on the second story (at the podium level), our plan will include interior and exterior 
amenity areas for the residents to use and enjoy including a tot lot for children.  While the programming 
and design details have not yet been developed, we anticipate that these spaces including community 
space on the ground level will be utilized for a full range of family-oriented activities, including but not 
limited to: flexible spaces for after-school educational programs, play equipment and areas for children 
to exercise and socialize, food security and health and wellness programs, and recreational space for the 
community to meet and gather.  
 
Additionally, at the ground level, there will be a welcoming entrance and lobby area for families to enter 
the building and feel a sense of privacy and comfort.  Again, while the specific details and interior space 
planning will be developed over time with the input of the community and the City, we anticipate that 
this area will include a welcome desk, resident mailbox area, seating areas, package room, and a 
community notice or bulletin board, and community gathering area. The ground floor retail area will be 
leased long-term to Self-Help for the Elderly, which will include a large multi-purpose area. Given that a 
Family-oriented project generally has most of its events in the late afternoon and evening, the 
development team hopes to work with Self-Help for the Elderly to allow the residential community to 
have controlled access to this space during non-business hours.  
 
Self-Help for the Elderly 
On the ground floor of the proposed plan, our development team is committed to providing space to 
house, the non-profit Self-Help for the Elderly.  We had the great pleasure of meeting with Ms. Anni 
Chung, its President and CEO. We applaud the work of this non-profit organization, that has tirelessly 
strived and succeeded in serving seniors in the community for over 50 years.  We would be delighted to 
work with Self-Help for the Elderly to support its efforts towards improving the quality of life for older 
adults by empowering themselves and providing a comprehensive range of multicultural and 
multilingual services.   
 
Our current site plan has approximately 5,000 sq. ft. of ground floor community-serving space.  In our 
meeting with Ms. Chung, she shared more about Self-Help for the Elderly’s specific space needs for their 
programs.  Specifically, they need office space for health care-related supportive and administrative 
services, a small prep kitchen, as well as a multi-purpose room that can be used to provide meal service 
(65-75 people), classroom/workshop space, and performance and recreational uses. Based on these 
requirements, the development team will be able to meet all of their needs to allow them to continue 
providing the desired services for the community at the project.  
 
Additionally, since our team has site control of the adjacent property at S. B. Street, we believe we can 
expand the development footprint, and can provide an even more robust set of community benefits, 
which could also include additional ground floor space for Self-Help for the Elderly to ensure that their 
current and future needs could be satisfied.  We understand the limited resources and financial 
constraints of this non-profit organization and their importance to the whole San Mateo community.  
Our team plans to provide this space at an extremely below market rent.  The team will work with Self-
Help for the Elderly to ensure an appropriate build-out that meets their vision for the space. In our 
361 of 445

--- page 362 ---
discussions with Self-Help for the Elderly, between our delivery condition and their reserved funds, we 
collectively will be able to provide the required capital for them to successfully move into the project.  
 
Outside Sources of Funding 
Our development team understands the City’s proposed structure, which consists of the City’s 
contribution of the Talbots City Lot, in the form of a long-term ground lease for $1 per year. That said, 
the development team prefers a fee simple transfer, but can accommodate the ground lease structure, 
if preferred by the City.   Additionally, we fully appreciate the importance of minimizing the City’s 
financial assistance to the maximum extent possible by applying for multiple outside sources of funding.   
In response to this City priority, we have explored, researched and analyzed the outside sources as 
detailed in the “Follow-up Proposal Parameters”, and have determined that a Family-oriented project of 
our size and scope would qualify for and be able to obtain these outside funding sources.   
 
Project Labor Agreement  
The development team shares the City’s priority for supporting local Labor Unions, wherever possible.  
The Partnership is open to exploring a potential Project Labor Agreement for this project. In that spirit, 
the project team has reached out to the SMC Building Trades Council to initiate that discussion and we 
look forward to continuing the dialogue on this topic.    
 
Below please find responses to the specific questions raised in Follow-up Proposal Parameters.  If you 
have any further questions or comments, our development team would be very happy to answer any 
questions you might have.  As we have stated in both our original proposal and our previous response to 
the City, in the end, our goal is to support the City in achieving its objectives of providing safe, secure 
and attractive affordable housing for its residents.    
 
We are confident that if the City were to choose our development team, you would find the Alta 
Housing, Prometheus and Harvest Properties team to be one that is collaborative, transparent, and 
always willing to have an open dialogue with you, all members of the City’s team, as well as community 
stakeholders.  Harvest and Prometheus are very proud to be working with Alta Housing on this 
exceptional community opportunity.  Alta Housing (previously Palo Alto Housing), a community-based 
non-profit has been developing and managing affordable housing in San Mateo and Santa Clara Counties 
for over 50 years.  They are uniquely positioned to manage and provide all the residential supportive 
care services that will be needed and required for the residents to thrive. 
 
Working collaboratively with Self Help for the Elderly, in conjunction with the City of San Mateo, we are 
committed to working together to create a new development project that serves the multi-generational 
needs of the San Mateo community.  Thank you again for this opportunity to respond to your questions.  
If you should have any further questions or require additional clarification, please do not hesitate to let 
us know.  Our development team truly looks forward to the next steps in the selection process. 
 
Yours Sincerely, 
 
___________________________ 
_______________________   
     ________________________ 
Preston O’Connell 
 
 
 Pat Calihan 
 
 
     Carlos Castellanos 
Partner  
 
 
 
 Senior Vice President  
     Vice President 
Harvest Properties 
 
 
 Prometheus 
 
 
     Alta Housing 
362 of 445

--- page 363 ---
City Question Responses:  
1) How many units do you propose to build? 
The project currently proposes 52-54-Family-oriented units including a mix of studios, one-bedroom, 
two-bedroom, and three-bedroom units. Please see below chart for a detailed breakdown of the 
unit mix. The Family-oriented project continues to be our recommended approach as the project 
scores very strong for many funding sources, caters to residents of all ages creating a multi-
generational project, and despite fewer total units, the project will accommodate 138-residents 
which is approximately 25% more residents than a 90-unit senior housing project. The development 
team has elected to provide a larger amenity area on the second floor that creates an 
indoor/outdoor environment resulting in a 52-unit project, but if the City prefers the higher range of 
units then the development team can reduce the size of the indoor amenity area to add two 
additional units, resulting in a 54-unit project.  
 
 
 
2)  What income ranges would your project accommodate? 
The project provides units ranging from 30% to 80% AMI with an average income level of 
approximately 43%.  
 
3)  How much on-site parking are you able to provide for the residential units? 
The project currently proposes 90 total parking stalls across the site. The current plan for the Family-
oriented housing project is to allocate 0.7 stalls per unit (37-stalls) to the residential portion of the 
project. The four different uses at the project have different peak demand times. The goal will be to 
incorporate a shared parking concept, as is standard in Downtown San Mateo projects, among the 
different uses: i) residential, ii) commercial, iii) retail, and iv) public parking. This shared concept will 
provide excess parking stalls to the residential units during off-peak hours.  If additional parcels on 
the block are acquired, then it will allow for an increased below-grade parking structure providing 
the opportunity for additional stalls to be allocated to the residential as well as additional flex 
parking for the residential and the public during off-peak commercial times.   
 
4)  Describe any on-site amenities associated with your project.  
The project will dedicate the majority of the ground floor to Self-Help for the Elderly to provide a 
permanent location for the organization so it can continue to serve the needs of the community of 
San Mateo.  Self-Help for the Elderly’s space will consist of a multi-faceted large community room to 
serve daily lunches, host dancing/music and other recreational events, as well as allow for the 
option of partitioning the space into three classroom areas for educational workshops. The 
development team also plans to work with Self-Help for the Elderly so that some of this space may 
be available to the residential community in the evenings and on the weekends.  We see these two 
uses as being very complimentary to each other.   
Unit Type
Unit Total
%
Studio
12
23%
1 Bed
11
21%
2 Bed
14
27%
3 Bed
15
29%
Total
52
100%
363 of 445

--- page 364 ---
The second floor of the project will provide 1,500 square feet of indoor space and over 2,500 square 
feet of outdoor space to create an indoor/outdoor amenity area for the residents. This space has 
not been fully programmed but will consist of flexible spaces for after-school activities and 
homework, play equipment and areas for children to exercise and socialize, and recreational space 
for the community to meet and gather. 
 
The development team is committed to developing a community where residents not only live but 
thrive.  Alta Housing has a long track record of providing on-site supportive services to its residential 
communities.  Alta Housing’s mission has been to partner with residents to provide services which 
are resident-driven, strength-based, impactful, and empowering.  Alta currently provides support in 
the following areas: 1) Supporting Counseling & Housing Retention to help residents meet their 
goals, 2) Community Building & Resident Leadership, and 3) Educational Programs & Social Services 
such as after-school and summer youth programs, parenting classes, financial literacy workshops, 
job coaching, and health and wellness initiatives.  
 
5) What is your expectation of the required ask of the City’s affordable housing fund? 
The revised proposal requests $2,000,000 of funding from the City of San Mateo. The development 
team will exhaust all potential avenues of funding prior to relying on the City for any financial 
commitment. The current proposal does not include the Commercial Linkage fee from the 
development team’s commercial projects. The Commercial Linkage fee will be paid directly to the 
City for each project. The Commercial Linkage fee will increase the City’s affordable housing fund by 
over 50%, providing the ability for the City to apply these funds to additional housing opportunities, 
thereby helping to address the housing shortage within the Bay Area. Based on current available 
funding sources, we estimate the $5.6M of Commercial Linkage fees could be leveraged to create an 
additional 20-30 housing units for the community.  
 
The $5.6M of proposed Commercial Linkage fees that will be paid to the City includes $1,300,000 of 
additional fees that is directly related to the Talbots City Lot that the City would not obtain if the 
team is unsuccessful in acquiring a lease-hold interest in the City Lot. Additionally, the development 
team will contribute equity up to $2,900,000 as a Developer Community Benefit Contribution to the 
project to cover any potential shortfall and provide for greater certainty of execution.   
 
6) What other funding sources will you seek for this project? 
With funding for affordable housing currently and projected to be in very short supply, our team 
worked diligently and engaged a third-party expert to confirm the potential competitiveness of the 
full range of state, federal, and other housing funding programs (see table below).  In this way and 
combined with our own Developer Community Benefit Contribution, we aim to minimize and 
potentially eliminate financial support necessary from the City. Please see below the competitive 
funding scoring matrix developed for our project: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
364 of 445

--- page 365 ---
Competitive Funding 
Program 
Competitive 
Funding Source 
Our Projected Score 
Competitive Threshold* 
Tax-Exempt Bonds 
CDLAC 
(California Debt 
Limit Allocation 
Committee) 
• 
120 out of 120 
• 
Tiebreaker: 
155,246 (lower 
is better) 
• 
119 out of 120 
• 
Tiebreaker: 246,741  
Multi-Family Housing 
Program (MHP)  
HCD (State of 
CA Housing and 
Community 
Development 
Department) 
• 
116 out of 116 
• 
Tiebreaker: 
0.329 (lower is 
better) 
• 
116 out of 116 
• 
Tiebreaker: 0.490  
Infill Infrastructure Grant 
(IIG) 
HCD 
• 
250 out of 250 
• 
224 out of 250 
Transit-Oriented 
Development (TOD)  
HCD 
• 
290 out of 300 
• 
265 out of 300 
Affordable Housing 
Program (AHP)  
FHLB (Federal 
Home Loan 
Bank) 
• 
70.69 out of 
100 
• 
70.00 out of 100 
*The lowest score among the projects which were successfully awarded funding in that program’s 
previous round inclusive of the set-aside, if applicable, in which this project would compete. 
Furthermore, our due diligence confirms that the proposed project design and location meets the 
current regulatory requirements necessary to compete as a family project in a High Resource Area, 
giving it a distinct competitive advantage to all other projects across the State which do not meet 
these requirements. 
 
At the same time, our financing plan takes into account that two sources which continue to be 
challenging or out-of-reach for even the best family projects, namely Section 8 vouchers and 9% tax 
credits.  
• 
For Section 8, our due diligence confirmed that currently project-based vouchers are 
oversubscribed with limited availability except for an allocation for veterans. We will continue to 
stay in contact with the County should that change. 
• 
The 9% tax credit program continues to be limited due to the size of the Region. That said, we 
are looking at maximizing the adaptability to be competitive for 9% and understand that HCD is 
exploring the possibility of allowing the MHP program to be used with 9% tax credits; this is 
currently disallowed.  Were that to happen, we would apply our full effort to achieve the 
9%/MHP combo, in order to reach the above-stated goal of reducing or eliminating City funding. 
 
Funding Sources Overview: 
Our projections effectively and fully leverage State funding and other sources – including the Developer 
Community Benefits Contribution – to minimize the City’s financial assistance.  A discussion of each 
source follows: 
a. 4% Tax Credit:  
The project assumes 4% tax credit funding with the competitive CDLAC tiebreaker necessary to 
obtain this funding.  
 
365 of 445

--- page 366 ---
b. San Mateo County Affordable Housing Fund (AHF):  
In order to limit the number of required sources, the proposal currently does not rely on funding 
from the County, but during the financing process the development team will leave “no stone 
left unturned” and will exhaust all potential funding sources. The Developers Community Benefit 
Contribution will supplant the customary necessary funding from the County of San Mateo.  
c. Federal Home Bank Affordable Housing Program (AHP): 
We have included $765,000 in AHP funding; per our research, the project surpasses the 
threshold required to be considered competitive for this funding source. Of note, a higher per-
unit AHP loan than what we are including significantly reduces application competitiveness 
under current regulations. 
d. Project Based Vouchers:  
Conversations with the County have confirmed that currently project-based Section 8 vouchers 
are very limited and prioritized for veterans. The Section 8 program is most often called upon to 
support the limited income available from tenants exiting homelessness. Rather than rely upon 
this scarce resource – and potentially delay project construction – we instead opted to leverage 
the higher incomes available from the 80% AMI units and supplement the shortfall with the 
Developers Community Benefit Contribution. However, it is important to note that this did not 
come at the expense of fully funding the service provision for the formerly homeless tenants 
which is a necessary component to help them stay housed; our budget includes 1 FTE Service 
Coordinator and 1 FTE Services Specialist. 
e. Other State Programs: 
a. Multi-Family Housing Program (MHP) 
Our project intentionally takes full advantage of MHP for the following reasons: 
1. It is routinely the most-funded State program with the greatest number of 
funding “rounds” per year with the greatest funding per round. 
2. We have designed the project to meet the CTCAC requirements for family 
housing. That, combined with the site’s location in a High Resource Area, 
allows the project to garner a greater per-unit MHP subsidy vs. if either of 
these were not the case. This advantage comes without damaging the 
project’s overall competitiveness for this resource. 
3. The project has a very competitive tiebreaker and we are confident in our 
ability to obtain this financing.  
b. Infill Infrastructure Grant (IIG) 
We propose to pair the MHP funding with the IIG program.  Our due diligence has 
confirmed that the project could score extremely well, based upon the updated 
regulations issued this month. The IIG program will be an excellent source to cover 
related construction-period costs such as utility connections and sidewalk 
improvements. Our IIG “self-score” shows a high degree of feasibility in obtaining this 
competitive resource. 
 
c. Transit Oriented Development Programs (TOD) 
Although our due diligence confirms that the project would score very well for TOD (290 
out of 300, whereas 265 was the minimum to be awarded in the previous round), we 
propose not to rely upon this funding source unless one of the following facts is 
changed: 
366 of 445

--- page 367 ---
1. The TOD Program isn’t reliably available. 
1. The previous round in 2020 was the first TOD “NOFA” since 2014. 
2. HCD has not announced plans for another TOD NOFA. 
3. In addition, TOD funding often lags other programs ($140 million for 
TOD in 2020 vs. $160 million for IIG in 2021, $195 million for MHP in 
2021, and $297 million for MHP in 2020). 
2. HCD guidelines prohibit “subsidy stacking” – one unit cannot benefit from 
both MHP and TOD funding (but IIG is exempt). 
3. The greater per-unit loan amount available to this project under the MHP 
program – described above – is not available under TOD for any project; 
therefore, the maximum possible award under TOD will always be less than 
the maximum MHP award for this project under current regulations. 
 
 
7. Would you consider trying to acquire the parcels immediately fronting the Talbot’s parking lot 
along B-Street for a larger development site? 
The development team is open to acquiring the parcels fronting the Talbot’s parking lot. The 
opportunity to transform the full City block will lead to a very exciting development that will 
further allow the team to curate a marque project that meets the City’s vision for the 
Downtown area. Acquiring the adjacent sites will provide optimal site flexibility, additional 
parking stalls, enhanced architectural design, increased programming to activate the public 
realm, and provide subsidized rent to offer community serving retail. The team currently 
controls the 445 S. B Street (former Talbots Toy Store), which provides many benefits to the City 
Lot such as: i) replacement of public parking, ii) on-site parking for the residential units, iii) 
Developer Community Benefit Contribution of $2.9M to cover the potential short-fall and 
provide a further the ability to provide subterranean parking. 
8. Would you consider entering into a Project Labor Agreement for this project? 
The development team is open to exploring a Project Labor Agreement for this project and has 
reached out to James Ruigomez at the SMC Building Trades Council to discuss the potential to work 
together on this project.  
367 of 445

--- page 368 ---
Conceptual Rendering – Street View 
 
 
 
368 of 445

--- page 369 ---
Proposed Ground Floor Plan
S. Railroad Avenue

Multi-Purpose

me ey

E. 4th Avenue

369 of 445


--- page 370 ---
Proposed Second Floor with Amenity Space 
370 of 445

--- page 371 ---
Proposed Third & Fourth Floor

S. Railroad Avenue

st. | St. | 1 Bed

350 SF | 350 SF 560 SF

E. 4th Avenue

371 of 445


--- page 372 ---
Proposed Fifth — Seventh Floor
5S. Railroad Avenue

3 Bed

1,000 SIF

450 SF

3 Bed

1,000 SF

E. 4th Avenue

372 of 445


--- page 373 ---
Talbots City Lot
Downtown San Mateo
Surplus Land Act Proposal
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN HAS BEEN PROVIDED TO YOU ON A CONFIDENTIAL BASIS BY HARVEST PROPERTIES (THE “COMPANY”).  DUE TO THE CONFIDENTIAL NATURE OF  
THIS INFORMATION, IT MAY NOT BE  REPRODUCED IN WHOLE OR IN PART, AND IT MAY NOT BE DELIVERED TO ANY PERSON WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY.
373 of 445

--- page 374 ---
I.
Offer Letter
II.
Partnership Overview
III.
Downtown Vision  
IV.
Project Vision
V.
Development Proposal
TABLE OF CONTENTS
374 of 445

--- page 375 ---
OFFER
LETTER


--- page 376 ---
March 8, 2021 
Ms. Kathy Kleinbaum 
City Manager’s Office 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
RE: 
Notice of Availability of Surplus Land 
APNs: 034-179-050; 034-179-060 
Dear Ms. Kleinbaum: 
It is with great pleasure that we submit our offer for the surplus land owned by the City of San Mateo, located 
at the corner of S. Railroad Avenue and E. 4th Avenue in Downtown San Mateo (“Talbots City Lot”).  This site 
offers an exceptional opportunity in Downtown San Mateo to provide a much-needed supply of affordable 
housing for San Mateo’s residents, to energize, enhance, and beautify the public realm along key street 
corridors, and contribute to the architectural legacy of Downtown San Mateo with unique, world-class design 
that fits into the character of the Downtown. 
The purpose of this letter is to provide an overview of our development proposal for the Talbots City Lot.  The 
materials that follow this letter will provide additional information and detail for your consideration and 
review.  The letter is organized into six sections: Development Team; What Our Team Has Heard; Development 
Vision; Affordable Housing Options, Adjacent Site-Control Advantages; and, Development Deal Structure. 
Development Team 
Our proposed development team for the Talbots City Lot site is a partnership of Harvest Properties, 
Prometheus Real Estate Group, and Alta Housing– all locally-based and community-focused developers.  The 
team strongly believes in and is committed to the core principles of investing long-term in the San Mateo 
community and building long-lasting relationships with the City and community stakeholders.  Prometheus and 
Harvest have been active in the San Mateo market for over five decades and currently manage approximately 
320 residential units and 850,000 sq. ft. of office space in San Mateo, in addition to 354 residential units under 
development (including 29 affordable for-sale housing units).  Prometheus is currently working on the 303 
Baldwin site in Downtown San Mateo, which will create a high-quality, uniquely designed building with the goal 
of enhancing the public realm near the Downtown Train Station. 
Alta Housing has been committed to providing affordable housing in Silicon Valley since its inception over 50 
years ago with the help of local community leaders.  Known for innovative development, outstanding resident 
support and high-quality maintenance of its buildings, Alta Housing manages over 700 units to house more 
than 2,000 low-income residents across the Bay Area.  Prometheus and Alta have previously collaborated on 
other projects located along the Peninsula and are looking forward to joining forces with Harvest Properties for 
this special development opportunity in Downtown San Mateo. 
376 of 445

--- page 377 ---
What Our Team Has Heard 
The development team has spent considerable time listening to the objectives for the disposition of the 
Talbots City Lot site from the City Council, City Staff, and the community of San Mateo.  What we have heard 
from these meetings related to the site as well as to the future vision for Downtown San Mateo is as follows: 
 Maximize unit count 
 Replace existing parking on-site 
 Preference for ground lease of the land 
 Design a project that would enhance the retail and public realm experience 
 Provide best in-class architecture while respecting the established downtown environment 
Our development proposal is designed to meet the needs, priorities and objectives of the City and community 
of San Mateo.  We look forward to reviewing our design proposal with you as the selection process progresses 
and continuing to listen to the community and incorporate that essential feedback into the development 
proposal. 
 
Development Vision 
Our development team is looking forward to partnering and working collaboratively with the City and all 
community stakeholders and leaders to create a dynamic, mixed-use, 100% affordable housing development 
on the Talbots City Lot site.  As will be described below, there are two different housing options to consider for 
the programming and residential populations served by the proposed project.  The guiding principle, 
underlying both options, is to build on the extraordinary foundation of Downtown San Mateo, and continue to 
enhance and energize the Downtown neighborhood core. 
 
The Talbots City Lot site presents an opportunity to curate 
and provide a diverse array of community-facing, locally-
based services at the ground floor of the new development.  
Depending on the needs and wishes of the community, 
these services could include: a diversified mix of restaurant 
and food offerings, spaces to support the local arts 
community, flexible youth-oriented spaces, public art 
installations, and local music venues.  Coupled with world 
class architecture and creative designs as envisioned by our 
development proposal, these ground floor spaces will help 
to enliven and energize the public realm and streetscapes 
along S. Railroad Avenue and E. 4th Avenue and ultimately 
create a special destination for local residents and visitors 
to Downtown San Mateo. 
 
As will be described in greater detail below, Prometheus 
and Harvest also control the adjacent property along S. B. Street, which is contiguous to the Talbots City Lot 
site.  Therefore, as you will see in the architectural renderings that are attached, our development proposal is 
uniquely positioned to expand the development footprint of the Talbots City Lot site and create an even more 
377 of 445

--- page 378 ---
robust set of complimentary community benefits that extend to S. B. Street.  Our vision is to provide a 
diversified mixture of restaurant options, curated with arts and music venues, public art, and a rich landscaping 
palette to create a marquis destination for the community. Among other features, our current proposal carves 
back the building’s footprint away from the property’s boundary, thereby widening the pedestrian ground 
plane at the sidewalk and creating the opportunity to double or triple the public realm with beautiful 
landscaping and well-designed parklets.  In adherence with the standards of San Mateo Downtown 
Streetscape guidelines, our ultimate vision is to develop a functional and beautifully designed gathering space, 
with varied retail offerings, that everyone in the community can enjoy. 
 
This is our development team’s preliminary vision for this special block of Downtown San Mateo; we look 
forward to discussing and exploring these ideas and concepts with the City and community as we move 
forward in the review and selection process. 
 
Affordable Housing Options 
As is the case across much of the Bay Area and the Peninsula, many jurisdictions are facing a severe shortage 
of affordable housing to offer their residents.  Safe, sustainable, and healthy affordable housing options for 
everyone is essential for the City and our region in order to continue to thrive into the future.  Our team would 
be proud to be able to contribute to the needed supply of affordable housing in the City of San Mateo on the 
Talbots City Lot site and has created two different affordable housing options summarized below. 
 
Please note, each option is further described and detailed in our attached proposal.  Additionally, a working 
assumption that maximizing the amount of affordable housing on the Talbots City lot guided each alternative, 
which assumes the maximum bulk and massing allowed on the site when using the State Density Housing 
Bonus program.  Our team recognizes that there may be hybrid or alternative options and are open to 
exploring those with the City as discussions progress. 
 
• 
Option 1: Family-oriented housing 
o Unit count:  By designing the site to its maximum building envelope, in adherence to the City’s 
Zoning Code as well as utilizing the State Density Housing Bonus, a total gross building square 
footage of 60,000 sq. ft. (or 52 units) could be achieved. 
o Unit mix:  As a family-oriented project, at least 50% of the units will be 2 and 3 BR units, with 
the balance (50%) as 1BR units and Studios. 
o Community:  While the project will be geared toward families, there will also be units available 
to San Mateo’s senior population, creating an inter-generational community. 
o Assistance:  Additionally, up to 10% of the units could be set aside as supportive housing (IDD 
population). 
o AMI:  30-80% of Area Median Income with an average of 50% of AMI, aiming to serve the 
broadest segments of the affordable housing market. 
o Parking:  Approximately 90 parking stalls would be provided. 
 
• 
Option 2:  Senior housing 
o Unit count:  Similar to Option 1, the project has been designed to maximize the building 
envelope in adherence to the City’s Zoning Code as well as utilizing the State Density Housing 
378 of 445

--- page 379 ---
Bonus, with a total building square footage of 60,000 sq. ft.  With smaller unit size on average, 
the total unit count achieved is 60 units. 
o Unit mix:  As a housing project geared toward seniors, the unit mix would, on average, be 
smaller unit sizes: 25% (2 and 3 BRs); 75% (1BR and Studios). 
o Assistance:  As is typical for a Seniors housing project, it would be dependent on Voucher 
support from the County of San Mateo:  25% Veteran vouchers; 25% Section 8 Project-Based 
vouchers. 
o AMI:  50% of Area Median Income (AMI). 
o Parking:  Similar to Option 1, approximately 90 parking stalls would be provided. 
 
Initial Recommendation 
While our team is certainly open to discussing the two different options presented above, due to some 
challenges related to financing Senior housing (i.e., availability of Section 8 Project-Based vouchers), our 
team’s recommendation would be to pursue Option 1:  Family-oriented housing.  Unlike Option 2, Option 1’s 
financial viability would not be dependent on the voucher program.  Additionally, Option 1 meets the broadest 
segment of the community, as it provides housing with unit sizes and a unit mix suitable for San Mateo’s 
families as well as its senior population.  As described above, our proposed plan is able to accommodate 90 
parking stalls (nearly doubling what is currently onsite) for the future residents of our community as well as 
spaces to be shared with the public. 
 
That said, our ultimate goal is to find a solution that meets the combined needs of the community and the City.  
If the City’s preference is to maximize the unit count within the buildable envelope (as reflected in Option 2), 
the development team will work collaboratively with the City to identify creative ways to replace the more 
typical method of funding these projects with other sources of funding.  And, we continue to be open to 
alternative options that are more preferable to and will meet the objectives of the City, in terms of unit count, 
level of affordability and residential population served. 
 
Adjacent Site-Control Advantages 
Due to our team’s control of the adjacent site at S. B. Street, our team is uniquely positioned to create the 
most expansive and complimentary experience for this block in Downtown San Mateo.  The development team 
is working on two other new, mixed-use commercial development projects in Downtown San Mateo, in 
proximate to the Talbots City Lot site:  31-57 S. B Street and 668 E. 3rd Avenue.  With this proprietary 
collection of projects in the pipeline, our development proposal for the Talbots City Lot site is able to achieve 
far greater results than if the Talbots City Lot were developed as stand-alone project.  Additionally, due to the 
collective land holdings and project scale controlled by the development team, we can provide better 
construction cost efficiency resulting in more units to the community with less reliance on subsidies. 
 
Below is a list of the key advantages that our development proposal can offer to the City: 
 
Financial Contributions 
 
Generate $5.6 million in Commercial Linkage Fees to be used as a needed funding source for the 
affordable housing provided at the Talbots City Lot site.  These fees are generated by the three 
commercial projects that the development team is currently proposing and would nearly double the 
City’s current affordable housing funds.  For comparison purposes, the development team would be 
379 of 445

--- page 380 ---
required to build approximately 13 units of housing to equate to the $5.6 million in Commercial 
Linkage Fees; however our project is proposing to deliver 52-60 units.  This represents an offering of 
nearly 300-400% more when including the contribution of the Talbots City Lot. 
 
Generate approximately $25 million in impact fees to the City (from the three development sites) to 
help address budget deficits in the City of San Mateo. 
 
Increase in revenue to the City by approximately $1.5 million from the incremental increase in 
property taxes from the three properties.  This increased valuation and associated property tax 
increase provides a long-term source of funding or annuity for the City of San Mateo to be utilized for 
a variety of City needs (i.e., potential budget deficits, future affordable housing projects, etc.) 
 
Public Realm/Public Parking 
 
As part of the development project, upwards of 90 parking stalls will be provided with the availability 
of shared public parking.  This nearly doubles the existing supply of parking that is currently on the 
Talbots City Lot site.  If the Talbots City Lot site was developed as a stand-alone project, the current 
publicly accessible parking spaces on site would likely be eliminated and no longer available to provide 
needed parking downtown.  Additionally, the size of the Talbots City Lot site makes a stand-alone 
underground parking facility very inefficient and extremely expensive to construct. 
 
As was described in the Development Vision section above, the project will significantly enhance and 
energize the public realm along the project’s streetscape frontages on S. Railroad Avenue, E. 4th 
Street, as well as on S. B Street – all which will contribute to the execution of the City’s vision for S. B 
Street and its Downtown core. 
 
As a benefit to the community, the project will partially subsidize the retail space in order to provide 
community-serving retail such as a music venue, art studios/gallery, maker spaces, bookstores, and 
other retail uses that might not otherwise be financially viable. 
 
In collaboration with the City, community stakeholders and the local business community, the 
development team will implement a hyper-local retail strategy by identifying retail categories that are 
missing from the area in order to complement the current Downtown offerings. 
 
Development Deal Structure 
While the development team’s strong preference would be to take ownership of the Talbots City Lot site as a 
fee simple interest.  We are certainly open to exploring other structures with the City such as a ground lease 
structure, which could be discussed and analyzed during our continued discussions with the City.  The 
capitalization structure outlined in our current proposal consists of the City of San Mateo contributing the 
Talbots City Lot land to the development team entity as part of the development transaction.  It is the project 
team’s understanding that there is a profit-sharing agreement on the Talbots City Lot which results in the City 
only receiving 30% of any cash payment received.  Therefore, in-lieu of providing a monetary payment, the 
team has, in effect, utilized these proceeds to create additional units on-site to the full benefit of the 
community. 
 
In order to achieve the development vision, create the maximum number of affordable housing units onsite, 
and provide the unique array of community services and benefits, our current financial analysis results in a City 
financial subsidy, of approximately $2,350,000 to provide the needed funding sources to capitalize the project 
[please see a high-level summary of funding sources in our exhibit]. 
 
380 of 445

--- page 381 ---
In summary, our development team is excited and committed to working collaboratively with you, your staff, 
and all appropriate City of San Mateo departments in order to achieve the City’s vision for the Talbots City Lot 
site.  Due to our team’s breadth of knowledge our familiarity and direct development experience in San 
Mateo, and the unique advantage of owning the adjacent site and other development sites in Downtown San 
Mateo, we are confident that our development proposal for the Talbots City Lot will satisfy the City’s 
objectives now and for many years to come. 
 
If you should have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact any member of our development team.  
We look forward to the next steps of this process. 
 
 
Yours Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
________________________ 
________________________ 
Preston O’Connell 
Pat Calihan 
Jonathan Stone 
Partner, Harvest Properties 
Senior Vice President, Prometheus 
Senior Dir. of Development 
Poconnell@harvestproperties.com 
PCalihan@prometheusreg.com 
JStone@prometheusreg.com 
Phone: 415-278-1062 
Phone: 650-931-3460 
Phone: 650-931-3448 
 
 
 
 
 
381 of 445

--- page 382 ---
PROJECT VISION – S. B STREET & 5TH AVE
Create an energized pedestrian experience, activated by 
locally-based retail uses with commercial space above
382 of 445

--- page 383 ---
PROJECT VISION – 4TH AVE & RAILROAD
100% affordable housing project with complimentary ground 
floor community-oriented flexible creative space
383 of 445

--- page 384 ---
PARTNERSHIP
OVERVIEW


--- page 385 ---
LOCALLY COMMITTED PARTNERSHIP
Locally-Based
Community Focused
Real Estate Developers
•
Prometheus & Harvest Properties have a 
long-standing professional and personal 
relationship &  have partnered on Talbots 
to deliver a best in-class mixed-use project
•
Members of our team, including at the 
Partner level, live in San Mateo and the 
surrounding areas and are passionate 
about our commitment to improving the 
neighborhood for all residents
•
Active in the San Mateo market for over 
five decades
•
Partnership manages over 320 residential 
units & 850,000 sq. ft. of office in San 
Mateo as well as 354 residential units 
under development
Peninsula Heights – Recently unanimously 
approved 290 for-sale residential unit project, 
including 29-affordable units
Active San Mateo Projects
Each firm believes in the core principals of investing long term in the community and building 
long-term relationships with community stakeholders
Gateway Crossing: Future commercial 
development site located at Delaware & 3rd
Avenue
Trag’s (303 Baldwin): Under construction 134k 
SF mixed-use project consisting of 64 residential 
units, 20k SF of retail, and 61k SF of office
Draeger’s: Application submitted for a 148k SF 
mixed-use project including replacement of 
community serving grocer & 10 affordable 
housing units
Talbots: Future mixed-use development site 
located at S. B Street & 5th Avenue
Donut Delite: Future mixed-use commercial 
development site located at S. B Street & 1st
Avenue
385 of 445

--- page 386 ---
PROMETHEUS REAL ESTATE GROUP
Prometheus Real Estate Group, Inc is a privately held firm specializing in the 
acquisition, development and management of high quality residential and 
commercial properties. The Company, founded in 1965 with headquarters in San 
Mateo, CA, is one of the largest private real estate firms in the Western United 
States and largest private owner of apartments in the San Francisco Bay Area. 
The Company and its +/-500 employees currently operate in California, Oregon, 
and Washington.  
Prometheus wholly owns and operates a real estate portfolio valued in excess of 
$7 billion which includes 12,190 apartment units and over 1.1 million square feet 
of commercial, office, R&D and retail space. The firm maintains a conservative 
financial strategy with conservative leverage and 10-year fixed rate debt across 
most of the portfolio, with some prime assets owned free and clear. Prometheus 
is looking to add to a current development pipeline of 17 projects totaling 4,554 
units, 523,000 square feet of commercial space, and an estimated $3.7 billion in 
project costs.
Prometheus’ development team is comprised of professionals who have an 
impressive record of success in working with communities to solve the 
entitlement, site, and planning challenges associated with the development of 
landmark projects. As part of its development programs, the principals of 
Prometheus create superior quality communities through the selection of 
premier architects, planners, engineers and consulting firms with proven abilities 
to create outstanding living and working environments. 
Prometheus has received over 70 national architectural and design awards, as 
well as recognition from  numerous civic and industry organizations. Named 
“Best Property Management Firm” in the nation in 2011-2013 by Multi-Housing 
News Magazine (MHN), Prometheus’ continued success as a leading property 
management firm is directly attributable to the skills of our on-site management 
professionals.
Metropolitan Apartments, San Mateo
303 Baldwin, San Mateo
386 of 445

--- page 387 ---
HARVEST PROPERTIES
Bay Area Real Estate Leaders.
Harvest Properties is a full-service real estate investment firm active in the
ownership, development and operation of commercial properties throughout
Northern California. Founded in 2002, the firm is led by a seasoned team of
professionals who possess a deep understanding of Bay Area real estate gained
over multiple business cycles, both while at Harvest and at leading firms such as
Spieker Properties, Jay Paul Company, RREEF, AMB (Prologis), Eastdil Secured and
Equity Office Properties. Over the last 15+ years, Harvest has established itself as a
leader in the Bay Area real estate market generating attractive returns for its
capital partners by combining institutional rigor with the adaptability of an
entrepreneurial operator.
Harvest has transacted assets valued at more than $3 billion for a range of
institutional partners and private investors and has approximately 10 million
square feet of office, industrial and R&D space under management hosting over
400 tenants.
Harvest Properties collective development experiences spans more than 17
million sf of commercial space and 950+ residential units.
Active Managers with Broad-Based Skills.
Harvest’s capabilities extend broadly from acquisition and development to asset
repositioning and property management and finally deal structuring and financing.
Harvest is equipped to manage every component of an investment setting it apart
from simple asset allocators and financial engineers. Through active, hands-on
management and direct principal oversight, the Harvest team focuses on
optimizing the efficiency and performance of every asset with an eye towards
mitigating the risks associated with owning real estate.
Extensive Network of Relationships.
Harvest has a strong history of working with a broad array of world-class, global
leaders including Prometheus, Apollo, AXA Investment Managers, The Blackstone
Group, Cerberus, CIGNA, Invesco, KKR, LaSalle, New York Life, Nuveen, Principal
and Prudential among others. The firm has also forged exceptional relationships
with the regional brokerage community and local business owners, enabling it to
find and execute on investment opportunities with key strategic investment
partners.
Peninsula Heights, San Mateo: For-Sale Residential
Mixed-Use Project, East Palo Alto
387 of 445

--- page 388 ---
ALTA HOUSING
Alta Housing is an independent non-profit agency that builds, 
develops, acquires, and manages low- and moderate-income housing 
in San Mateo and Santa Clara Counties.  Alta Housing has been 
committed to providing affordable housing in the Bay Area since its 
inception over 50 years ago with the help of local community 
leaders. With a committed staff of over 50, Alta Housing is a Santa 
Clara County based 501(c)(3). 
Our Mission: To create stronger, more diverse communities by 
providing and maintaining high-quality affordable housing where 
individuals and families thrive.
Alta Housing provides high-quality, safe housing; subsidize rents to 
the greatest degree possible and support our residents in reaching 
their goals through the Resident Services program. Alta’s portfolio 
consists of over 700 residential units housing more than 2,000 low-
income residents. Alta’s properties are geared towards families, 
seniors and special needs populations. 
As a long-term developer and owner of affordable properties on the 
mid-peninsula, Alta Housing brings significant financial security and 
the ability to leverage creative funding sources to any new 
development project
Wilton Ct, Palo Alto: 100% Affordable Housing 
Fair Oaks, Redwood City: 100% Affordable Housing
388 of 445

--- page 389 ---
DOWNTOWN
VISION


--- page 390 ---
DOWNTOWN VISION
Our Inspiration
So, What Can We Do?
Curate a collection of buildings to meet the demand for DTSM office and retail users that exceed the expectations of community 
stakeholders while providing affordable housing

Curate Complementary, Community-Focused Retail - Implement 
a hyper-local retail strategy by identifying retail categories missing 
to complement downtown offerings. 

Amenitize and Subsidize Retail – Financially structure retail deals 
to curate the right mix, allowing retailers to thrive long term. 

Affordable Housing Units – Provide 100% affordable housing units 
to help reverse the significant jobs-housing imbalance and allow 
the region to thrive into the future.

Shape the Future Identity for Downtown San Mateo – Become an 
active participant in the General Plan and within the community to 
help shape the future look and feel of the downtown core.

Provide Core Urban Office Answer to Meet Demand – Identify 
ways to add  interesting, jewel-box office buildings to meet 
increased demand by office tenants to be located in urban / 
suburban, transit-served, amenity-rich locations.

Develop a Differentiated Product – Build architecturally 
interesting, best-in-class buildings that exceed tenant office 
standards.
390 of 445

--- page 391 ---
ENHANCED PUBLIC REALM ALONG S. B STREET 
Community-Focused Retail
Welcoming Lobby Design
Enhanced Streetscape with Mature Canopy
Unique Lobby Entry Feature
Ground Floor Office Storefront
Parklet on B Street
• Improved streetscape 
• Outdoor seating
• Extension of Main Street
• Improvement of San Mateo’s 
doorstep 
• Unique design that fits into the 
character of the downtown
• Additional foot traffic 
supporting local businesses
Open Air Restaurant/Cafe
391 of 445

--- page 392 ---
DESIGN WITH WELLNESS IN MIND
Wellness
•
Natural light
•
Air flow and quality
•
Materials
•
Interior vegetation
•
Water quality
Sustainability
•
Efficient energy systems 
•
All electric
•
Mass timber 
•
CityTrees 
•
Water use (low flow systems, etc.)
•
DOAS system (Dedicated Outdoor Air System)
COVID Considerations  
•
Touchless / Automated everything
•
Anti-microbial finishes
•
HVAC Upgrades - Filters, bi-polar ionization, UV Light, DOAS
•
Elevator - Destination dispatch, app controlled, air purifier 
•
Stairs – Improved visibility & access to encourage use, 
enhanced ventilation
Visible, Accessible Stairs and Interior Vegetation via Living Walls
Touchless Elevator Access
Mass Timber Building Execution
Operable Windows
CityTrees Unit
How can we develop a healthy workplace? We will design and deliver quality, environmentally conscious 
buildings that enhance wellness to maximize productivity on days people are in the office
392 of 445

--- page 393 ---
PROJECT
VISION


--- page 394 ---
PROJECT VISION – S. B STREET & 5TH AVE
Recessed ground floor retail 
creating an indoor/outdoor 
environment that enhances and 
energizes the public realm
Subsidized retail to curate 24/7 
environment with a mix of uses 
such as restaurants, music/arts, & 
other community-serving 
businesses
394 of 445

--- page 395 ---
PROJECT VISION – 4TH AVE & RAILROAD
Activate underutilized 
corner with community 
serving/multi-use arts 
center 
Enhanced 
street/pedestrian 
experience to meet the 
pedestrian masterplan 
guidelines
100% affordable housing 
units to reverse the jobs-
housing imbalance
395 of 445

--- page 396 ---
COMPLIMENTARY ADJACENT RETAIL ENVIRONMENT
Control of multiple sites in the 
Downtown Corridor to curate 
a cohesive and 
complementary mix of retail 
uses to benefit the 
community 
Opportunity to 
collaboratively work with 
the City & community to 
ensure a comprehensive 
retail environment
396 of 445

--- page 397 ---
DEVELOPMENT
PROPOSAL


--- page 398 ---
DEVELOPMENT OPTIONS

60 units

Housing units aged restricted to residents 65 
years & older

Higher density, with smaller unit sizes on average, 
more heavily weighted towards Studios and 1BRs 
(only 25% 2/3BRs)

Up to 10% of units catered to supportive housing 
(IDD) for residents 65+ 

Average Area Median Income (AMI) of 50%

90 parking stalls provided

Up to 50% of units will require voucher support

Heavily reliant on weak State level funding

Building height: 7 stories (approximately 70-75’, 
equal to Mid-Pen project)

52 units

Housing units available to all age groups, 
creating an inter-generational housing 
development 

On average, larger unit sizes for larger (family) 
households with a minimum of 50% 2 & 3 BRs

Up to 10% of units catered to supportive 
housing (IDD)

Average Area Median Income (AMI) of 50%

Approx. 90 parking stalls provided

Amenities: community servicing arts center, 
elevated outdoor space, and multipurpose 
community room for residents

Building height:  7 stories (approximately 70-75’, 
equal to Mid-Pen project)
Option 1: Family Housing
Option 2: Senior Housing
* The partnership is open to increasing unit count by densifying the project if the City prefers 
additional housing units, but this may require a heavier reliance on City led subsidy. 
398 of 445

--- page 399 ---
FINANCING OVERVIEW
FUNDING SOURCES
OPTION A
OPTION B
Commercial Linkage Fee
$110,000
$95,000
Federal Tax Credit – 4%
$315,000
$315,000
City of San Mateo
$45,000
$50,000
County of San Mateo
$50,000
$50,000
Private Funding
$205,000
$190,000
Voucher Dependent Units
0%
~50%
• Funding sources are reflected per unit
• The funding sources are estimates & subject to change pending market conditions
399 of 445

--- page 400 ---
BENEFITS TO DEVELOPMENT TEAM PROPOSAL

Affordable units based on available funding 
sources

Upwards of $16M of required subsidy from 4 
to 6 different local/state funding sources to 
provide project viability

Less certainty of execution

No ability to replace existing public parking on-
site due to small scale site

City contribute site to affordable developer 
with no revenue generated for the City

Minimal contribution of impact fees and 
recurring revenue to the City

Provide 52-60, 100% affordable residential units

Our collective proposal would generate $5.6 
million in commercial linkage fees to be used as 
funding source for the affordable housing site

Project would provide upwards of 90 parking 
stalls, with the availability of public parking

Enhance public realm: executing City’s vision for 
S. B Street

Partially subsidized retail space to curate best in-
class retail experience for the community

~$25M+ in impact fees across three sites to the 
City to address budget deficits 

Increase in annual real estate taxes of ~$1.5M 
upon stabilization of each site
Talbots + City Parking Lot
City Parking Lot Only
400 of 445

--- page 401 ---
PROPOSAL + KEY ASSUMPTIONS
Talbots + City Parking Lot – San Mateo, CA
Parcel Size:
0.93 Acres
Size: 
Residential: 52 units
Commercial: 118,760 SF
Floors:
Residential: 7-Stories
Commercial: 5-Stories
Parking:
90-Stalls Subterranean
Height:
70-75’
FAR 
Waiver to exceed 3.0 FAR
Impact Fees:
~$25M across all three sites
Affordability:
100% affordable (Average 50% AMI)
Key Assumptions:
•
Density waiver in excess of 3.0 FAR/55-units per acre to 
support the addition of affordable housing, similar to the 
MidPen project with commercial garage
•
Waiver for setback along B-Street & 4th Ave corridor to 
create additional housing density
•
Waiver to transition retail along 4th Ave corridor to 
community space and affordable housing amenities 
•
Commercial & affordable housing exceeding 55’ to 
maximize affordable unit count & provides separate 
identities, reduced height & superior architecture 
•
Ability to link Commercial Linkage Fee from other projects
•
Parking In-Lieu Fee offset by total stalls provided on-site 
Key Features of Proposal:
•
Standalone residential & commercial structure to provide 
each bldg. its own identity, greater unit count, reduced 
height, and better architectural articulation
•
Provide public parking on-site + additional after hour 
accessible stalls
•
Provide 52-units @ 100% below market rate with a 
minimum of 50% 2 & 3 BRs
•
Significant Parking in-lieu fees to support future parking 
within the City
•
Community serving retail along S. B Street & community 
focused flex space on 4th Avenue
401 of 445

--- page 402 ---
~~

a) aes ai?! ana

7352 3aanamen il
moe TT n
veL TT Tt taka ket Eel wt |
maT TL | labia i ee | th

- pm
ir nz rT an mT] ar i i SSS |

nm oO ne rm



--- page 403 ---
1 
 
Surplus Land’s Act Follow-Up Proposal 
MidPen Housing 
5/27/2021 
 
1) How many units do you propose to build? 
We have asked our Architect to model 4 different scenarios:  
1a) Baseline 7-Story scenario where we preserve the trees on 4th Avenue 
1b) Baseline tree-preserving scenario where we add an eighth story 
2a) Alternate 7-Story scenario where we remove the trees and build to the property line 
2b) Alternate tree-removing scenario where we add an eighth story 
 
Below are the unit matrices for each scenario: 
 
We will solicit feedback from the City and the community to assess which scenario is preferred. 
The exercise of creating multiple scenarios allows us to weigh the tradeoffs. For example, 
retaining the mature trees on 4th Avenue reduces the unit count by 10, reduces parking stalls by 
6, and reduces the ground floor space for Self Help by 1200 square feet. Adding an extra story of 
housing increases the unit count by 10-12 homes. 
Unit Counts
4th and Railroad, San Mateo
Scenario 1a:
Retain Trees - 7 stories
Scenario 2a:
Zero Setback - 7 stories
14 autos
20 autos
Self Help: 3800 SF
Self Help:  5000 SF
Stutio
1 BR
2 BR
3 BR
by floor
Stutio
1 BR
2 BR
3 BR
by floor
1 Floor
-
-
-
-
-
1 Floor
-
-
-
-
-
2 Floor
3
1
1
1
6
2 Floor
0
2
1
3
6
3 Floor
3
1
3
3
10
3 Floor
2
3
3
4
12
4 Floor
3
1
3
3
10
4 Floor
2
3
3
4
12
5 Floor
3
1
3
3
10
5 Floor
2
3
4
3
12
6 Floor
3
1
3
3
10
6 Floor
2
3
4
3
12
7 Floor
3
1
3
3
10
7 Floor
2
3
4
3
12
8 Floor
-
-
-
-
-
8 Floor
0
Subtotals
18
6
16
16
56
Subtotals
10
17
19
20
66
32%
11%
29%
29%
Homes
15%
26%
29%
30%
Homes
Scenario 1b:
Retain Trees - 8 stories
Scenario 2b:
Zero Setback - 8 stories
14 autos
20 autos
Self Help: 3800 SF
Self Help:  5000 SF
Stutio
1 BR
2 BR
3 BR
by floor
Stutio
1 BR
2 BR
3 BR
by floor
1 Floor
-
-
-
-
-
1 Floor
-
-
-
-
-
2 Floor
3
1
1
1
6
2 Floor
0
2
1
3
6
3 Floor
3
1
3
3
10
3 Floor
2
3
3
4
12
4 Floor
3
1
3
3
10
4 Floor
2
3
3
4
12
5 Floor
3
1
3
3
10
5 Floor
2
3
4
3
12
6 Floor
3
1
3
3
10
6 Floor
2
3
4
3
12
7 Floor
3
1
3
3
10
7 Floor
2
3
4
3
12
8 Floor
3
1
3
3
-
8 Floor
2
3
4
3
12
Subtotals
21
7
19
19
66
Subtotals
12
20
23
23
78
32%
11%
29%
29%
Homes
15%
26%
29%
29%
Homes
403 of 445

--- page 404 ---
2 
 
2) What income ranges would your project accommodate? 
MidPen intends to serve households with incomes ranging from below 30% AMI up to 60% AMI. 
The targeting within the proposed income range is broad to ensure a spectrum of extremely and 
very low-income households qualify: 20% at 30% AMI (ELI), 20% at 40% AMI, 20% at 50% AMI, 
and the remaining 40% at 60% AMI. The average AMI across the community is expected at 
roughly 48% AMI. 
3) How much on-site parking are you able to provide for the residential units? 
We propose a reduced parking ratio for this prime, downtown, transit-oriented location. The 
reduced parking ratio prioritizes the ground-level street frontage for Self-Help for the Elderly’s 
Senior Center. Reduced parking also reduces project cost, for example by avoiding underground 
parking, and building complications such as ongoing maintenance of parking stackers.  
In Scenario 1a and 1b, where we preserve the trees on 4th Avenue, we can achieve 14 parking 
stalls, which results in a 0.25 parking ratio in the 7-story building and a 0.21 parking ratio in the 
8-story building. In Scenario 2a and 2b, where we remove the trees and build to the property 
line, we can achieve 20 parking stalls, which results in a 0.30 parking ratio in the 7-story building 
and a 0.26 parking ratio in the 8-story building. 
MidPen has experience managing reduced parking ratios. Transportation Demand Management 
for this development may include a combination of the following measures: 
• 
Car sharing space(s) on-site, with subsidized car sharing membership 
• 
Free or subsidized transit passes 
• 
Provision of ample bike storage, including bike repair space 
• 
No car preference 
• 
Marketing the development as transit-oriented during lease up 
• 
Marketing transit options through ongoing operations, for example through a transit 
hub within the building that provides a transit screen and/or schedules 
• 
Layering of special needs preferences, such as formerly homeless (less likely to have car) 
 
4) Describe any on-site amenities associated with your project. 
In addition to the community serving Self-Help for the Elderly Senior Center, the development 
will feature on-site amenities for residents only:  
• 
Property management office 
• 
Community room 
• 
Outdoor recreation space including play area 
• 
Laundry facilities 
• 
Secured bike storage 
 
MidPen would also study sharing resident services space with neighboring Kiku Crossing. A 
shared approach benefits residents by connecting them in a community that extends beyond 
their building. The shared approach also leverages the three resident service provider offices 
and large learning center at Kiku Crossing to maximize housing and community-serving space at 
the Talbot’s Parking Lot site. 
404 of 445

--- page 405 ---
3 
 
5) What is your expectation of the required ask of the City’s affordable housing fund? 
We would like to work with the City to find the most optimal path for financing to minimize the 
City contribution while still having an expedient path toward construction start. There are some 
unusual nuances in the current financing system, including geographical region allocation limits 
for the 9% tax credit program, which make local gap contributions grow in a non-linear manner 
once over a certain total development cost. If selected, we will model multiple scenarios so the 
City can choose the path with the best value. 
For now, we will use Scenario 2a with 66 homes as a case study on possible financing paths 
based on programs we can access today. 
The ultimate City contribution (after conventional debt, County AHF, and AHP, which all scale 
with increased unit count) will still vary depending on availability of other sources. We maintain 
our AHF assumption of $80k/du, so $5.2 million in this example case: 
 
a) In the most cost-effective scenario from the City’s perspective, MidPen would apply for 
about $4.8 million from a State program (such as TOD), resulting in no additional City 
cash subsidy on top of the ground lease land contribution. This option will lock the 
project on a 4% tax credit path. 
 
b) Presently, tax-exempt bonds are extremely competitive, thus making 4% tax credits 
more difficult to access than 9% tax credits. The City could elect to go the 9% tax credits 
route and contribute $4.4 million to complete the financing stack (at 59% tiebreaker) 
with no state funding and a good likelihood of award. This 9% case is the most 
expedited path toward construction but requires a City contribution. 
 
c) If the County had project-based vouchers (PBV’s) available in the future, we could apply 
for some to reduce or eliminate the City contribution in the 9% case or the State source 
in the 4% case. We will continue to monitor the availability of this and other potential 
sources that could substitute into the stack and present better options for the City. We 
do not anticipate the VASH vouchers we originally contemplated for a senior community 
would be a fit at this family community.  
 
6) What other funding sources will you seek for this project? 
The proposed project is designed to be compatible with both 9% and 4% tax credit financing 
routes to keep options open amidst an uncertain, changing financing environment. Pending 
federal and state legislative changes may make one option more appealing than the other as the 
project goes through pre-development, and we want to position the project to be able to access 
both routes. 
In the 4% financing route, we would seek County of San Mateo AHF, AHP, and one State source 
such as AHSC, TOD, or MHP to complete the financing stack, without any contribution from the 
City. A small City contribution here could mean switching the State source to a less competitive 
one with a smaller award, such as IIG. The 4% financing route requires two non-local 
competitions, for the State source and for tax-exempt bonds. 
405 of 445

--- page 406 ---
4 
 
In the 9% financing route, we would seek only County of San Mateo AHF and AHP, in addition to 
the City contribution to complete the financing stack. This route could be more expeditious, as it 
requires only one non-local competition, for 9% tax credits. 
7) Would you consider trying to acquire the parcels immediately fronting the Talbot’s parking lot along 
B-Street for a larger development site? 
No. The proposed development is feasible as a stand-alone, 100% affordable project with the 
nominal, long-term ground lease from the City. 
8) Would you consider entering into a Project Labor Agreement for this project? 
We would strongly prefer not to. The proposed development will pay State Prevailing Wages 
and employ a majority of union trades, but a PLA will drive up total development cost 
significantly, which will disadvantage the project in state funding competitions where projects 
are ranked based on cost efficiency metrics.  
Paying State Prevailing Wages gives the project the ability to work with a majority of union 
subcontractors, while also creating opportunities for smaller, locally based, and women- or 
minority-owned subcontractors who could be excluded under a PLA. 
MidPen will also prioritize that at least 15% of the design and engineering firms designing the 
development are women- or minority-owned, in alignment with our organization’s value based 
contracting goals. 
 
406 of 445

--- page 407 ---
4TH / RAILROAD, SAN MATEO
MIDPEN HOUSING
JUNE 2021
&nbsp;
407 of&nbsp;445

--- page 408 ---
ELEC
MPOE
TRASH
bikes
SELF HELP:  3800 SF
WATER
pump
FACP
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
EV - van
EV
C
C
C
A
A
Lobby
4TH / RAILROAD, SAN MATEO
MIDPEN HOUSING
JUNE 2021
GROUND LEVEL
&nbsp;
408 of&nbsp;445

--- page 409 ---
LAUNDRY
MANAGEMENT
SERVICES
MEETINGS
3
S
S
S
PODIUM COURTYARD
TR
TELE
MEP
J
4TH / RAILROAD, SAN MATEO
MIDPEN HOUSING
JUNE 2021
2
1
COMMUNITY ROOM
 LEVEL 2
409 of 445

--- page 410 ---
TR
3
S
S
S
3
2
2
3
2
1
TELE
J
MEP
4TH / RAILROAD, SAN MATEO
MIDPEN HOUSING
JUNE 2021
 TYPICAL UPPER LEVEL
410 of 445

--- page 411 ---
March 5, 2021 
 
 
Ms. Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
RE:  
Surplus Land Notice of Interest – 4th and Railroad Surface Parking Lot 
 
Dear Ms. Kleinbaum: 
 
MidPen Housing would like to express our interest in the 4th and Railroad surface parking lot 
property, APNs 034-179-050 and -060, made available through the Notice of Availability of 
Surplus Land issued January 7, 2021. We believe the site has good affordable housing and public 
benefit potential and would like to collaborate with the City to achieve its goals. 
 
MidPen currently operates Delaware Pacific, Peninsula Station, and St. Matthew Apartments in 
San Mateo (total of 184 affordable homes) and is working with the City now on Kiku Crossing. 
Our partnership with the City and our established presence as part of the community provide us 
great management scale and experience, as well as deep knowledge of the City. 
 
MidPen proposes to partner with Self-Help for the Elderly to relocate their popular senior center 
from the current location in Central Park to occupying the ground floor fronting 4th Avenue at this 
downtown site. Self-Help is an integral part of the San Mateo community, serving seniors in the 
City for many decades. Please see their Letter of Support enclosed. 
 
Above the ground level, we propose to build 100% affordable housing for seniors, a natural 
synergy with Self-Help’s senior center. We have analyzed the site and propose the following 
preliminary program and possible alternate scenarios: 
 
 
Recommended Program 
Maximum Homes 
Alternate 
More Parking Alternate 
Height 
7 Stories 
7 Stories 
7 Stories 
Housing 
90 One-bedrooms 
120 Studios 
90 Ones or 120 Studios 
Self-Help Center 
5,000 s.f. 
5,000 s.f. 
None 
Resident Parking 
24 Stalls 
24 Stalls 
24 Stalls 
Public Parking 
None 
None 
12 Stalls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	

411 of 445

--- page 412 ---
March 5, 2021 
Page 2 
 
The key assumptions for the recommended program are: 
x 
7 Stories at grade structure (similar height to Kiku Crossing); 
x 
Unit count of roughly 90 homes on 6 residential stories (7 stories total), all restricted for 
seniors, at one-bedroom size; 
x 
100% affordable rental homes restricted to extremely low- and very low-income senior 
households (up to 50% AMI), with at least 20% at extremely low-income (30% AMI); 
x 
We would work with the City and the community on targeting and preferences, and will 
include at least 5% for formerly homeless; 
x 
Long-term ground lease with the City (rather than land donation), so the City will 
maintain permanent control of the land; 
x 
Self-Help for the Elderly will create a senior center of roughly 5,000 square feet on the 
ground floor, and will pay for the hard costs of constructing their space. 
x 
Parking on the ground floor at reduced ratio for the senior population, no replacement 
parking for existing public stalls; 
x 
We intend to use 4% Low Income Housing Tax Credits along with permanent debt, 
available and compatible state programs, County Affordable Housing Fund, and City 
housing funds to finance the development; 
x 
MidPen will pay prevailing wages to all contractors for the construction of the building; 
x 
MidPen will provide in-house property management, to ensure the property operates 
sustainably over the long-term and is accountable to the neighbors; and 
x 
MidPen will also provide in-house resident services, to improve the quality of life of 
residents, coordinate social activities, and assist with aging in place. 
 
The alternate scenarios share the same assumptions, but with two key changes. In the Maximum 
Homes alternate, one-bedroom homes would be replaced with studios. This would increase unit 
yield from 90 to 120 homes, with the trade-off of reducing the private living space for residents 
from roughly 525 to 375 square feet and further reducing the resident parking ratio. In the More 
Parking alternate, the ground level would be maximized for public parking. This would provide 
12 public parking stalls, but at the expense of losing the Self-Help Center space and the 
commercial frontage on 4th Avenue. 
 
To mitigate the reduced residential parking ratio, MidPen would consider implementing measures 
we have experience with at other transit-oriented developments, for example:  
1. Targeted marketing to potential applicants on the limitation of parking; 
2. Inclusion of no-vehicle preference for some of the units; 
3. Provision of transit passes to encourage use of public transit; 
4. Inclusion of space for car sharing (Zipcar or similar); and 
5. Layering of some special needs preferences, such as frail elderly in the County’s Duals 
Program, elderly with physical disabilities, and formerly homeless households.  
 
Thank you for your consideration. 
 
 
 
Jan M. Lindenthal 
Chief Real Estate Development Officer 
 
	

412 of 445

--- page 413 ---
March 5, 2021
Mr. Felix AuYeung
Vice President of Business Development
MidPen Housing Corporation
303 Vintage Park Drive, Suite 250
Foster City, CA 94404
Dear Felix:
Self-Help for the Elderly expresses support for MidPen Housing Corporation’s Letter of
Intent to build 100% affordable housing for seniors and also to partner with Self-Help to
relocate our Senior Center from Central Park to the 4th and Railroad surplus site, occupying
approximately 5000 sq. Ft on the ground floor, fronting 4th Ave.
Self-Help has operated the Central Park Senior Center since 1992, almost 30 years. We
serve 1300-1500 seniors in San Mateo each year with a comprehensive range of social
activities, educational classes, congregate and home-delivered meals, social services and
wellness programs to primarily Asian, low to moderate income seniors and retirees who live
in San Mateo and nearby cities. We also started a senior lunch program with daily activities
in Millbrae four years ago. Since 1992, the San Mateo Health Insurance Counseling and
Assistance Programs (HICAP) has helped thousands of seniors each year with the Medicare
enrollment and other Medicare related issues.
Our San Mateo/Central Park Senior Center’s current lease with San Mateo Recreation and
Park Department will expire at the end of 2025, and we have been actively searching for a
permanent home for the center for a long time. When we were contacted by Felix at MidPen
back in January with the possibility of a partnership to relocate our current center to the new
development at 4th and Railroad, we were overjoyed, and our Board of Directors discussed
the offer and approved staff to move forward with MidPen’s proposal.
 
 
413 of 445

--- page 414 ---
Self-Help for the Elderly was established in San Francisco Chinatown in 1966. From a small
storefront operation, we expanded our services to now serve over 40,000 seniors in San
Mateo, San Francisco, Santa Clara, Alameda and Contra Costa counties. Our continuum of
eldercare services includes these essential components:
x
Congregate and Home Delivered Meals
x
3 affordable senior housing projects funded by HUD and tax-exempt bond financing
x
Medicare-certified Homecare and Hospice Services
x
Case Management and Social Services
x
Community Services and Social Activities and Learning at all the senior centers
x
Employment and Training for Older Workers
x
Social Enterprise/Fees for Services for Housekeeping, Home Health Aide and Deep 
Cleaning Services
x
Residential Care Facility for Alzheimer’s seniors
x
Health Insurance Counseling and Assistance Programs (HICAP)
x
Transportation for homebound and frail seniors
x
Community Based Adult Services (Adult Day Health Care)
x
Digital Literacy Training and Internet Essential classes for seniors
x
Naturalization Assistance and Citizenship programs
x
Seismic Safety Education and Outreach programs
If we can relocate our San Mateo Center with its current programs to be part of MidPen’s
Affordable Housing Complex at the new site, we will be able to maintain and expand our
services to all the new residents at the new complex. Six (6) out of our current 12 Senior
Centers are located in senior affordable housing projects and given our shared Mission and
Vision of providing a better quality of life for seniors, we really look forward to our
partnership with MidPen in developing the new community at 4th and Railroad site. Our
seniors in San Mateo will welcome the opportunity. Our staff and Board of Directors will
work closely with MidPen to design and operate the best affordable senior housing and
senior center for the seniors in San Mateo.
Thank you for your consideration of MidPen and Self-Help for the Elderly’s joint proposed
Letter of Intent.
Sincerely,
Anni Chung
President and CEO
 Anni Chung
414 of 445

--- page 415 ---
Surplus Land Act Follow-Up Proposal 
Page 1 of 3 
Mercy Housing California is pleased to present more details about our proposed project concept for the 4th and 
Railroad site in San Mateo. To better understand the site, Van Meter Williams Pollack LLP (VMWP) completed a 
site study, which we have included. VMWP is very experienced in designing affordable housing and mixed-use 
developments and has designed many MHC buildings throughout the Bay Area. The site study that VMWP 
prepared offers an efficient plan while providing for the residential and nonprofit spaces. The ground floor of 
the building would provide a residential lobby and management offices, the Self-Help for the Elderly space, and 
parking. The second floor would include residential community space; laundry, community room, and courtyard, 
and residential units. Floors three through seven would be entirely residential.   
The size of the site is small but could support an efficient building that can generally meet the parameters the 
City set forth. The VMWP study shows how the site could accommodate multiple ground floor uses; lobby, 
offices, and nonprofit space, and parking. However, it would be difficult to maintain access to the rear parking 
area for the businesses fronting B Street, while accommodating the desired ground-floor uses and unit count. 
We are working with a broker to explore purchasing any of the neighboring parcels. Acquiring an additional 
parcel would provide more flexibility to meet the City’s needs, and would allow for a site design that provides 
access to existing businesses.   
1)
How many units do you propose to build?
Based on the requested parameters, VMWP estimated 69 units in a 7-story building with a range of unit
sizes, from studios to 3-bedrooms. The unit mix that VMWP proposed is below. It includes 25% 3-
bedrooms, which is a requirement for many state funding sources. Since the site is relatively small, there
are more studio and 1-bedroom units than we may typically include in a family property. A 69-unit
development offers the flexibility to be funded through a 4% or 9% credit pathway. This development
size is also operationally efficient, allowing it to be self-supporting and sustainable.
Unit Size 
Number of Units 
Percent of Total Units 
Studio 
12 
17% 
1-Bedroom
22 
32% 
2-Bedroom
18 
26% 
3-Bedroom
17 
25% 
Total 
69 
100% 
2)
What income ranges would your project accommodate?
MHC anticipates that range of incomes served at this site would range from 30%-80% of AMI. Based on
the market study that we have from our nearby Middlefield Junction development, we anticipate that
the 80% AMI rents may be close to market. Before confirming the income range, we would work with
the City and County to identify the desired income range and do a market study for this site to confirm
the rent range. Additionally, we would explore whether the City or County want to set aside the 30%
AMI units for a special needs population, supported by vouchers or an operating subsidy.
415 of 445

--- page 416 ---
Surplus Land Act Follow-Up Proposal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 3 
 
 
3) How much on-site parking are you able to provide for the residential units? 
Based on the site yield from VMWP, the site could provide up to 33 spaces of parking. This plan uses 26 
stackers, allowing for the larger units to have space for two cars. Without including the extra space with 
the stackers, this is a 0.5:1 parking ratio. With this amount of parking, the ground-floor could also 
accommodate up to 3,000 square feet of nonprofit space. If the nonprofit space increases, the amount 
of parking would have to decrease. The site study shows an alternate of 4,300 square feet of nonprofit 
space and 27 parking spaces.  
MHC understands the importance of providing adequate parking at the site as well as the nonprofit 
space for Self-Help for the Elderly. We will work with all the stakeholders to find the best balance of 
uses.  
4) Describe any on-site amenities associated with your project. 
Mercy Housing provides resident services and amenities at all of our buildings. This includes a 
welcoming lobby, offices for our on-site property management and resident services staff, and 
community space. At the 4th and Railroad site, amenities would include a large resident courtyard on the 
second floor with connections to a community room and laundry room. The ground floor will provide a 
resident lobby with offices for on-site property management and resident service staff. The Mercy 
Housing staff will provide programming and support for the residents, activating the second-floor 
community space. Additionally, we would explore intergenerational programming with the Self-Help for 
the Elderly. We have several sites throughout the Bay Area with intergenerational programming, and 
offers benefits for the seniors and youth that participate.  
5) What is your expectation of the required ask of the City’s affordable housing fund? 
MHC’s expectation of the required ask from the City’s affordable housing fund is $3,000,000 or 
approximately $43,000 per unit. We believe that this is a typical level of support for affordable housing 
in the City and would allow us to leverage other financing sources.  
6) What other funding sources will you seek for this project? 
In addition to support from the City’s affordable housing fund, we would seek funding from the County 
of San Mateo. The County of San Mateo has funded our Middlefield Junction family development and 
has expressed support for this project. We would also pursue funding from the State Department of 
Housing and Community Development (HCD). This site would be very competitive for Infill Infrastructure 
Grant funding. MHC has been awarded IIG funding for seven developments. We would also explore 
using MHP or AHSC funds depending on the ultimate size of the project and funding gap. The County has 
especially expressed support for a 9% tax credit project and we would explore both a 4% and 9% tax 
credit option.  
7) Would you consider trying to acquire the parcels immediately fronting the Talbot’s parking lot along B-
Street for a larger development site? 
416 of 445

--- page 417 ---
Surplus Land Act Follow-Up Proposal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 3 
 
 
We are already speaking with a broker to exploring acquiring adjacent parcels to the site to provide 
more flexibility to the development. As discussed in our introduction, this site is relatively small, 
particularly if parking access needs to be provided for the businesses on B Street. Acquiring an adjacent 
parcel would be ideal for the project’s success. 
8) Would you consider entering into a Project Labor Agreement for this project? 
Mercy Housing has worked with Project Labor Agreements on our projects in the past. We know that 
the terms of a PLA can vary and we would be willing to work with the City on an agreement that best 
serves the development. 
 
 
417 of 445

--- page 418 ---
SAN MATEO SITE STUDY  |  EXISTING CONDITIONS AERIAL
1
SAN MATEO, CA  | May 4, 2021  |  MERCY HOUSING
0
40’
20’
S  B  ST
Tomatina
E  4TH AVE
E  5TH AVE
S  RAILROAD AVE
CALTRAIN
Pokeatery
Redwood 
Coast 
Cider
Talbots Toyland 
and Cyclery
City-Owned 
Parking
San Mateo Caltrain Station 
(3 Blocks Northwest)
SITE INFORMATION
Site Area
Parcel APNs
034-179-050 and 034-179-060
Site Area
110’x150’ = 16,500 sf  (0.38 acre)
Zone
CBD/R: Central Business with 
Residential Overlay
General Plan
Downtown Retail Core
Height Limit
55 - 75’
Bulk 1
Bldgs above 55’: max 150’ length and 
max 170’ diagonal length
FAR 2
3.0 max
Density
50 dwelling units per acre max
Street Wall
36’ maximum height per zoning code 
(see diagram below)
Street Frontage
Retail required along 4th Ave; 
75% min building frontage built to 
property line
Site Coverage
100% max
Parking Minimums
1.2 per studio; 1.5 per 1 bedroom; 1.7 
per 2 bedroom; 2.0 per 3 bedroom 
(includes 0.2 / unit visitor pkg req’mt)
3  OR  0.5 space per unit
Open Space
Min 80 sf per unit private usable 
open space OR common usable open 
space of 120 sf per unit
1 If project is designated R in Downtown Specific Plan and 
the area above 55’ is exclusively residential, then 
variations to bulk control may be permitted by Planning 
Commission.
2 Above-grade parking is included in FAR (both structured 
and surface parking)
3 If site is within 0.5 mile of high-frequency transit (min. 
15-minute headways) - Caltrain station qualifies.
Concessions / 
Waivers Required
• FAR
• Density
• Street wall
• Open space
Street Wall Diagram from Downtown Specific Plan
110’
150’
418 of 445

--- page 419 ---
2
SAN MATEO, CA  | May 4, 2021  |  MERCY HOUSING
0
40’
20’
SAN MATEO SITE STUDY  |  CONCEPTUAL FLOOR PLANS
S  B  ST
Tomatina
E  4TH AVE
E  5TH AVE
S  RAILROAD AVE
CALTRAIN
Pokeatery
Redwood 
Coast 
Cider
Talbots Toyland 
and Cyclery
Lobby
Trash Elec. Mech.
Parking 
26 stackers 
+ 7 spaces
Maint.
Self-Help for 
the Elderly 
3,000 sf - 4,300 sf
Mgmt. Office
GROUND FLOOR SITE PLAN
2ND FLOOR PLAN
3RD-7TH FLOOR PLANS
Laundry 
420 sf
Common 
1,000 sf
Courtyard 
3,275 sf
T
T
Storage
	
Non-Profit Space 
	
Office
	
Common
	
Circulation
	
Service
	
Studio
	
1-Bedroom Unit
	
2-Bedroom Unit
	
3-Bedroom Unit
PROGRAM SUMMARY
Site Area
0.38 acre
Building Height
7 stories - 75’   (5-over-2)
Building Area
92,033 sf
FAR
5.6  (includes parking garage)
Density
182 dwelling units per acre
Studio
12  (17%)
1 Bedroom
22  (32%)
2 Bedroom
18  (26%)
3 Bedroom
17  (25%)
TOTAL
69 units
Parking
26 stackers   (22 w/ larger non-profit)
7 spaces   (5)
33 spaces total   (27)
0.5 space per unit   (0.4)
Open Space
3,277 sf courtyard + 2,314 sf roof ter.
81 sf per unit
These trees 
would be 
removed
This area would become 
inaccessible to vehicles.
Serv. 
Prov.
Common 
900 sf
Floor Area Summary
Gross Area
Residential
Non-Profit
Common
Office
Circ./Serv.
Parking
Ground Floor
15,836
 -
3,052
-
792
3,746
8,246
Floor 2
12,742
7,664
-
2,938 
-
2,350
-
Floor 3
12,691
10,055
-
-
-
2,636
- 
Floor 4
12,691
10,055
-
-
-
2,636
-
Floor 5
12,691
10,055
-
 -
-
2,636
-
Floor 6
12,691
10,055
-
 -
-
2,636
-
Floor 7
12,691
10,055
-
 -
-
2,636
-
TOTAL
92,033 sf
57,729 sf
3,052 sf
2,938 sf
792 sf
19,276 sf
8,246 sf
Potential larger 
program area w/ 
less parking
419 of 445

--- page 420 ---
3
SAN MATEO, CA  | May 4, 2021  |  MERCY HOUSING
SAN MATEO SITE STUDY  |  BIRDSEYE VIEW FACING SOUTH
S  B  ST
E  4TH AVE
E  5TH AVE
S  RAILROAD AVE
CALTRAIN
420 of 445

--- page 421 ---
4
SAN MATEO, CA  | May 4, 2021  |  MERCY HOUSING
SAN MATEO SITE STUDY  |  BIRDSEYE VIEW FACING NORTH
S  B  ST
E  4TH AVE
E  5TH AVE
CALTRAIN
421 of 445

--- page 422 ---
Mercy Housing California 
1256 Market Street, San Francisco, CA 94102    o | 415.355.7100  f | 415.355.7101 
TTY | 800-877-8973 or 711                                    mercyhousing.org/california 
Mercy Housing is sponsored by communities of Catholic Sisters 
 
 
March 8, 2021 
 
Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
kkleinbaum@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7153 
 
Dear Ms. Kleinbaum, 
 
Mercy Housing California is pleased to submit this Notice of Interest to the City of San Mateo for the two 
surplus land parcels located at 4th and Railroad (“Talbot’s Lot”) totaling approximately 16,600 square 
feet in size. 
Mercy Housing History and Background 
Founded by the Sisters of Mercy in 1981, Mercy Housing, Inc. (MHI) is the nation’s largest nonprofit 
affordable housing developer and owner.  From its statewide headquarters in San Francisco, Mercy 
Housing develops, manages, and provides resident services throughout California.    
 
Mercy Housing’s mission is to create stable, vibrant and healthy communities by developing, financing 
and operating affordable, program-enriched housing for families, seniors and people with special needs 
who lack the economic resources to access quality, safe housing opportunities.  MHI builds and acquires 
affordable housing through five Regional Development Corporations based in California, Georgia, Illinois 
and Washington.  MHI owns and provides property management to more than 23,000 units of 
affordable housing and currently serves more than 50,000 people on any given day.   
 
Mercy Housing California (“MHC”) was incorporated in 1988 as the California affiliate of MHI.   MHC has 
developed over 11,000 homes and has 6,700 units in development.  MHC brings to the table a unique 
combination of national scope and local presence-- with offices in the Bay Area, Los Angeles, and 
Sacramento.   Because of our strong track record and financial strength, MHC consistently succeeds in 
securing both competitive public funding and the most advantageous terms from private lenders and 
investors.  In terms of financial strength, MHC is backed by the full strength and credit of MHI.  As of 
December 31, 2019, MHI had, on a consolidated basis, total assets in excess of $232 billion, cash and 
cash equivalents of $96 million and unrestricted net assets-controlling of $336 million. 
 
Real estate experience and capacity 
In the Bay Area, MHC has developed nearly 6,000 units in over 80 communities, including six completed 
developments in San Mateo County.  In San Mateo County, MHC’s current development activity includes 
the redevelopment of a 50-acre campus in Burlingame, 93 units of new educator workforce housing in 
Palo Alto, and 179 units of family housing in unincorporated Redwood City. 
422 of 445

--- page 423 ---
In terms of capacity, MHC has a local team of 35 real estate staff to support our development pipeline, 
including dedicated staff for community engagement at the entitlement stage of development.  MHC 
also has the unique ability to draw on a large national team that includes legal, accounting, and finance.   
Through Mercy Housing Management Group, Mercy Housing brings the experience and perspective of a 
long-term owner to the development process.      
 
Resident Services 
As much as these elements are critical to our success, it is our commitment to our residents that truly 
differentiates Mercy Housing from other affordable housing developers.  With 25 years of experience in 
providing resident programs, Mercy Housing has learned that the most successful programs speak 
directly to residents' concerns, interests and needs.  
 
Mercy Housing’s Resident Services Program serves over 4,400 seniors and is implemented at 43 senior 
properties throughout California.  Mercy Housing is consistently sought out as a partner by senior 
organizations and health care providers because our resident programming effectively supports both 
healthy and frail seniors through a seamless blend of social and health-related services. 
 
Community Outreach 
Mercy Housing California and our design team have extensive experience working with and through 
community outreach plans.  Virtually every one of MHC’s developments, including our own property 
rehabs, require thoughtful engagement with stakeholders, be they residents, neighbors, community 
organizations or businesses. Staff invests time and resources in community education about affordable 
housing, creating long term community relationships, and involving community members in creating 
housing that meet the needs of the community and the future residents.   
 
Proposed Project Details 
The location and size of the Talbot’s Lot are ideal for senior affordable housing project. The site is 
centrally located to allow seniors access to amenities and services. The smaller size of the site is well 
suited to the smaller units in senior housing developments. MHC anticipates that we could develop at 
least a 60-unit senior affordable housing project on the site. Based on our discussions with the County of 
San Mateo, there is support for senior affordable housing here. Depending on financing type this senior 
affordable housing would have a portion of the units set-aside to serve seniors experiencing 
homelessness. The affordability of the units would range from 30% AMI to 60% AMI, with an average 
affordability of approximately 45% AMI.   
 
MHC has worked closely with the County of San Mateo, which has funded our existing properties in the 
County of San Mateo. We also explored applying for HUD 202 financing for this site, which would 
provide capital and subsidy funds for the project. This project will be financed through Low Income 
Housing Tax Credits. The County of San Mateo would support its submission as a 9% or 4% and MHC 
would explore which pathway would be the best option.  
 
423 of 445

--- page 424 ---
We would expect that a 60-unit project would be the minimum size of the project here but would 
happily work with the City of San Mateo to identify increasing the size of the project. This site is eligible 
for SB 35 streamlining, which would allow for a faster entitlement process and allow the potential 
development to be larger than 60-units, if the City supported that.  
Purchase Price 
Based on a recent appraisal of a site that MHC is developing in Burlingame, MHC is offering a purchase 
price for the two parcels, totaling 16,600 sf of $4,200,000.  
Alternatively, MHC would be interested in executing a long-term ground lease with the City of San 
Mateo with annual ground lease payments, if the City would be interested in maintaining ownership of 
the land.   
We greatly appreciate this opportunity to express our interest. Please contact Barbara Gualco at 415-
355-7117 or bgualco@mercyhousing.org if you have any questions.
Sincerely, 
Ed Holder 
Vice President, Real Estate Development 
424 of 445

--- page 425 ---
_____________________________________________________________________________________________ 
 
520 Capitol Mall, ste 150  ◊     Sacramento, CA 95814     ◊         cel 916.834.5986     ◊     fax 916.669.8033 
 
email     mikek@westdv.com      ◊     web   www.westdv.com 
 
 
 
 
February 16, 2021 
 
 
Ms. Kathy Kleinbaum 
City San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Ave.  
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Dear Kathy: 
 
I am writing to express our interest in transacting with the city on the parcels known as the Talbot’s lot and 
the Ravioli lot. The development team has done a preliminary analysis and believe it is a good site for 
affordable housing.   
 
If the general nature of the proposal is interesting to the City, we would like to formally request the City 
Council authorize the execution of an ENA for a period of 2 months so we can formalize the proposal.  We 
would like to utilize that time period for additional analysis and discuss the prospect of transitioning into a 
DDA with the City.  Below is a summary of our proposal.   
 
1. Develop between 11 and 17 units of 3 story residential housing with incomes ranging between 60% 
AMI and 80% AMI.  This execution will not entail LIHTC.  This also contemplates 5th Avenue 
having split zoning.  We would be interested in coordinating with the City to rezone the C4-1.5 
portion to make for a more complete project and increase the unit count slightly. 
2. Alternatively, we can utilize LIHTC and achieve rents between 30% AMI and 60% AMI. (which 
will also require roughly $1M in additional city funds).   
3. The City will sell the land at fair market value and take a residual receipt note back for 100% of 
that value.  We currently are not anticipating any additional subsidy from the City. 
4. Developer shall entitle the site and secure all remaining financing. 
5. We estimate the total project costs to be between $6,500,000 and $8,500,000 depending on the 
number of units achieved.  All of the costs, outside of the city’s land contribution would be the 
responsibility of the Developer to raise. 
 
We propose entering into an ENA during which time we would present a formal proposal and plan to enter 
into a DDA for the site.   
 
Thank you for your consideration and should you have any question or require additional information, 
please do not hastate to contact me at (916) 834-5986. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Mike Kelley 
 
 
425 of 445

--- page 426 ---
©) the Eldelly 731 Sansome Street, Suite 100 | San Francisco, CA 94111-1725

: t: (415) 677-7600 | f: (415) 296-0313 | e: info@selfhelpelderly.org
aa BS “0 n h, h “ ; soneiment to seniors since 1966
www.selfhelpelderly.org Providing strength, hope and emp

June 17, 2021

San Mateo City Council
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

Re: Talbots City Lot — Letter of Support for Harvest Properties
Dear City Council Members,

I am writing on behalf of Self-Help for the Elderly, a non-profit organization that has been providing
assistance and support to seniors in the San Francisco Bay Area since 1966. The purpose of this letter is
to let the City Council Members know of our strong support for Harvest Properties proposed project at the
Talbots City Lot in Downtown San Mateo.

I recently had a series of conversations with Harvest Properties, who is proposing to build ~52 affordable
housing units with ground floor community serving retail on the City Parking Lot next to the Talbots site.
This is a very exciting project and meets the needs and objectives of the City and community of San
Mateo, as it will provide much needed affordable housing, activate the public realm and retail experience,
and transform the City block to energize the Downtown neighborhood.

Additionally, I believe the ground floor community space is an ideal choice for Self-Help’s new Senior
and Recreational Center and office. As many of you may know, the building we currently occupy in San
Mateo Central Park will be demolished in a few years, so we have been in search of a new space for our
seniors. I have provided the Harvest team with an overview of our space and program requirements. The
Harvest team was collaborative, responsive, and sensitive to our needs, and is currently working with
their architect to design the ground-floor to accommodate our uses. I am confident in their ability to
deliver a high-quality space that we can call home for years to come.

The adjacent location to Central Park will also provide our participants with easy access to outdoor fitness
and dance activities. Additionally the space would be offered to us at a rent significantly below market
rate, which provides substantial financial contribution to our organization, and will allow us to deploy
more reserves on the space build-out, new furniture procurement and operations to better serve our
community.

I hope you will join us in supporting this project because it is the kind of development that enhances the
Downtown neighborhood and will support Self-Help for the Elderly to continue to serve San Mateo’s
senior community to live longer, healthier, and more purposeful lives. Thank you very much.

Sincerely,
/ )

Anni Chung _

President and CEO
San Francisco San Mateo South Bay _ Alameda
415.677.7500 650.342.0822 408.733.1883 510.336.0144

601 Jackson Street 50 East Fifth Avenue 550 East Remington Drive - 2400 MacArthur Boulevard
San Francisco, CA 94133 San Mateo, CA 94401 Sunnyvale, CA 94087 Oakland, CA 94602

&nbsp;
426 of&nbsp;445


--- page 427 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  20
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 21-4852
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
July 19, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Report on Legislative Committee Consideration of Pending State Legislation
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive staff report and provide direction on whether letters of support/opposition should be submitted on California 
Senate and Assembly bills brought forward by the Legislative Committee.
BACKGROUND:
The Legislative Committee met on May 24th to discuss pending bills and determine which of those bills should be brought 
forward for consideration by the entire City Council.  Overall, 15 bills were selected to be brought forward and focus on 
the following policy areas:

Housing (SB 8, SB 9, SB 10, AB 1322, AB 1401)

Sustainability (SB 30, SB 31, SB 32, SB 68, SB 596, AB 33)

Traffic and Transportation (AB 43, AB 550, AB 629, AB 1238)
A brief analysis of each of the bills is provided in Attachment 1.  Please note that no analysis of AB 1322 is included, as that 
bill, which was originally a housing-related bill, has been amended.  The amended bill is now related to planning for the 
use of sustainable aviation fuels.  Should Council direct that letters of support/opposition be written for multiple bills 
introduced by the same legislator, staff recommends that one letter be written covering each bill.  This would be 
applicable to SB 30, 31, and 32, introduced by Senator Cortese; SB 68 and 596, introduced by Senator Becker; and AB 550 
and 629, introduced by Assemblymember Chiu.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no direct budgetary impact from providing letters of support or opposition to any of these bills.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Legislative Summaries
427 of 445

--- page 428 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Drew Corbett, City Manager
dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7002
428 of 445

--- page 429 ---
Senate Bill 8 (Senator Nancy Skinner) 
 
Summary of Legislation:  
Senate Bill 8 (SB8) is a follow-up to Senate Bill 330 (SB 330), which Senator Skinner sponsored in 2019 
and went into effect in January 2020. SB 330 was aimed at streamlining housing production and made 
changes to how local jurisdictions can review residential applications and limited a city or county’s 
ability to change land use designations in a way that would reduce the intensity of residential uses 
beyond the codes that were in place as of January 1, 2018. 
 
SB 8 extends the sunset of the provisions of SB 330 until 2030 (the Act was previously set to expire in 
2025) and clarifies some of the language included in the original bill. Principally, this includes more 
clearly defining a “housing development project,” to also include single dwelling units and both 
ministerial and discretionary projects. 
 
Impact to San Mateo:  
There are currently two SB330 planning applications in the development pipeline in San Mateo: 
• 
Peninsula Heights (PA20-012) – Planning application approved for 290 multifamily units  
• 
1919 O’Farrell (PA20-037) – Planning application under review for 49 multifamily units 
 
Under SB 330, the City is limited to a maximum of five hearings in connection to their approval, and the 
planning applications are subject to the general plan, zoning standards, and fee schedule in place at the 
time of the submittal of their pre-application. If SB 8 is signed into law, developers would have until 
January 1, 2030 to submit pre-applications for future projects, and the City would be required to follow 
a similar process in reviewing those planning applications. 
 
League of California Cities Position:  
SB 8 is on the League of California Cities’ watch list, but the League has taken no position at this time. 
 
 
429 of 445

--- page 430 ---
Senate Bill 9 (Senators Toni Atkins, Anna Caballero, Susan Rubio, Scott Wiener) 
 
Summary of Legislation:  
Senate Bill 9 (SB 9) is aimed at accelerating the production of duplexes and ADUs under certain 
conditions to help alleviate California’s housing constraints. In practical terms, SB 9 requires two things:  
1. First, it requires ministerial approval of duplexes on parcels zoned for single-family residential 
use under certain conditions. Local agencies can still require those new homes to conform to 
existing objective standards, but those standards cannot preclude the development from 
including up to two units of at least 800 square feet each or require setbacks that would 
physically preclude the development from including up to two units. 
2. Second, local agencies would be required to ministerially approve a parcel subdivision (“urban 
lot split”) on parcels that are zoned for single family residential uses so long as neither of the 
resulting parcels is smaller than 1,200 square feet (among other criteria). 
 
The stated goal of this legislation is to streamline the process whereby a homeowner could create a 
duplex or subdivide their lot to create neighborhood housing. Local jurisdictions would be permitted to 
impose an owner-occupancy requirement for up to one year after the approval of an urban lot split, and 
any rental unit created under this bill would be required to be rented for a term of at least 30 days. 
 
Impact to San Mateo: 
Should SB 9 become law, the owners of single family parcels in San Mateo would have the ability to 
apply for a parcel subdivision and/or construct duplexes. The City would be required to ministerially 
approve the parcel subdivisions, construction of duplexes, or conversion of existing single family homes 
to duplexes that meet the requirements of SB 9. Such duplexes could be subjected to objective design 
standards.  
 
League of California Cities Position:  
The League of California Cities has submitted a letter of opposition. Primarily, the League opposes the 
removal of local discretion in approving certain types of residential developments and disagrees with SB 
9’s provision that would require ministerial approval of an urban lot split.  
 
 
430 of 445

--- page 431 ---
Senate Bill 10 (Senator Scott Wiener) 
 
Summary of Legislation:  
Senate Bill 10 (SB 10) allows local jurisdictions to pass an ordinance, resolution, or local regulation to 
upzone certain parcels for up to ten units of residential density. Such a change would not be subject to 
the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) provided the parcels are either: 
• 
located within a half mile of a major transit site or high-quality bus corridor, or 
• 
an urban infill site. 
 
Contrary to past proposals, SB 10 does not compel cities or counties to make these changes to their 
zoning codes, but it does lay out the process by which the changes could be made. A local jurisdiction 
would be required to specify the allowable building height on the affected parcels and, “make a finding 
that the increased density authorized by the ordinance is consistent with the city or county’s obligation 
to affirmatively further fair housing.” Should a local government wish to pass such an ordinance, it 
would need to do so prior to January 1, 2029. 
 
Lastly, as currently written, SB 10 would allow local jurisdictions to make these zoning changes even if 
there are voter-approved zoning restrictions already in place that might otherwise prevent such 
upzoning.  
 
Impact to San Mateo: 
As SB 10 does not compel cities to change zoning codes or upzone for residential uses, there would only 
be impacts should the City Council decide to exercise the authority granted by SB 10.  
 
League of California Cities Position:  
SB 10 is on the league of California Cities’ watch list, but the League has taken no position at this time. 
 
 
 
 
431 of 445

--- page 432 ---
Assembly Bill 1401 (Assembly Member Laura Friedman) 
 
Summary of Legislation:  
Assembly Bill 1401 (AB 1401) is intended to reduce a significant construction cost; namely, the provision 
of on-site parking. Hundreds of local jurisdictions in California impose minimum parking requirements 
on developers to ensure that the proposed construction will be able to accommodate the parking 
demands of future residents and/or patrons. AB 1401 would prohibit local jurisdictions from imposing 
minimum parking requirements on parcels that are within a half mile walking distance of a major transit 
stop or high-quality transit corridor.  
 
Supporters of AB 1401, including its sponsor, Assembly Member Laura Friedman, cite studies that point 
to an existing abundance of parking across the State and the oversupply of parking at several recently-
constructed commercial and residential projects. Given current construction costs, advocates view the 
reduction of parking production as a way to lower the cost of building housing while also reducing 
congestion and pollution by encouraging more people to utilize public transportation. 
 
As written, the bill does not preclude a developer from voluntarily providing parking in these transit-rich 
areas, nor does it eliminate a local jurisdiction’s ability to set requirements for how much of that parking 
should be set aside for electric vehicles or car shares. 
 
Impact to San Mateo: 
Under SMMC 27.64, the City of San Mateo imposes off-street parking requirements for a variety of land 
uses, with requirements differing for those within the Central Parking Improvement District (CPID). 
Alternatively, those projects in the CPID are permitted to pay a fee in-lieu of the required on-site 
parking. 
 
However, because AB 1401 would prohibit cities from imposing minimum parking requirements on 
those parcels within a half mile of major transit stops or high-quality transit corridors, the City would no 
longer be able to impose such requirements in the CPID (and other areas of the City). All three of the 
City’s Caltrain stations would qualify as major transit stops, as defined in AB 1401, and El Camino Real is 
a high-quality transit corridor by virtue of the frequent bus service provided by SamTrans. As a result, 
significant portions of the City would no longer be subject to minimum parking requirements. 
 
Although many developers would likely provide parking voluntarily, the lack of minimum requirements 
could have ripple effects that would impact parking for the surrounding areas. 
 
League of California Cities Position:  
The League of California Cities has submitted a letter of opposition. The League cites the following three 
primary reasons for its opposition: 
1. Proximity to public transit does not necessarily guarantee access to that transit 
2. Transit agencies would have significant impact on a local jurisdiction’s parking requirements and 
could alter the geographic scope of those requirements by changing transit routes 
3. Local agencies are more closely connected to community needs and better equipped to set 
parking requirements at an appropriate level 
 
 
 
 
432 of 445

--- page 433 ---
Bill Number: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
May be acted upon in Jan 2022 
 
SB 30 – Building Decarbonization (Senator Dave Cortese of District 15) 
 
Summary of Legislation: 
 
This bill would prohibit State agencies from supporting, funding, designing, or constructing projects that 
are connected to the natural gas grid. It will also require the California State Building Decarbonization 
Plan to be developed and put into effect by January 1, 2035. On or after January 1, 2023, to the extent 
permissible under federal law, a state agency shall not provide funding or other support for projects for 
the construction of residential or nonresidential buildings that are connected to the natural gas grid. 
 
Impact to San Mateo: 
 
This may impact City projects, such as affordable housing developments or City facilities, that receive a 
portion of their funding from the State. We would assume that all buildings are on the natural gas grid 
except for residential and office buildings which are to be all electric. This bill would affect reach codes 
of any new buildings.  
 
League of California Cities Position: 
 
California League of Cities has not yet published an opinion on this legislation.  
 
433 of 445

--- page 434 ---
Bill Number: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
May be acted upon in Jan 2022 
 
SB 31 - Building Decarbonization (Senator Dave Cortese of District 15) 
 
Summary of Legislation: 
 
This bill would extend clean energy and energy efficiency funds that are available through the federal 
government due to addressing the economic recovery and development of the COVID-19 pandemic, as 
well as award funds, funded by electric utility ratepayers, through commissions to the development and 
deployment of new and old commercial and residential building decarbonization.  
 
This bill would:  
• 
Require the Energy Commission to create and implement programs to promote existing and 
new building decarbonization. 
• 
Authorize the Energy Commission, depending on if the clean energy or energy efficiency funds 
are made available from the federal government to address economic recovery and 
development due to the COVID-19 pandemic, to expend federal money for projects for existing 
and new building decarbonization. 
• 
Require the Energy Commission, under the EPIC program, to award funds for projects that lead 
to the development and deployment of commercial and residential building decarbonization 
technologies and investments that reduce or eliminate greenhouse gas generation in those 
buildings. 
• 
Authorize the expenditure of revenues as required of electrical corporations by the CPUC and 
nonbypassable usage-based charges on distribution services by local publicly owned electric 
utilities for existing and new building decarbonization. 
Impact to San Mateo: 
 
This bill may result in available grant funding for building decarbonization programs and projects that 
the City may be able to take advantage of. This bill will help provide funds to create cleaner energy in 
buildings, both old and new. The buildings that the funds would be used on is to be determined.  
League of California Cities Position: 
California League of Cities has not yet published an opinion on this legislation.  
 
 
434 of 445

--- page 435 ---
Bill Number: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
May be acted upon in Jan 2022 
 
SB 32 – Energy General Plan: Building Decarbonization Requirements (Senator Dave Cortese of District 
15) 
 
Summary of Legislation:  
 
This bill will:  
• 
Commencing January 1, 2023, this bill would require a city or county to make a one-time 
amendment to the appropriate elements of its general plan, climate action or greenhouse gas 
emissions reduction plan, or building or other codes to include goals, policies, objectives, 
targets, and feasible implementation strategies, as specified, to decarbonize newly constructed 
commercial and residential buildings. 
• 
Require a city or county to submit these draft amendments to the State Energy Resources 
Conservation and Development Commission at least 45 days before the adoption of them. 
• 
Require the legislative body of a city or county to listen to the Commission’s advisory comments 
and to take them into consideration before adopting them. 
 
The proposed building decarbonization amendments must include the following: 
• 
A report describing greenhouse gas emissions data for existing commercial and residential 
buildings, including significant sources of the emissions. 
• 
A summary of local, state, and federal policies, programs, and regulations that may assist in the 
decarbonization of existing and newly constructed commercial and residential buildings. 
• 
A comprehensive set of goals, policies, and objectives that may assist in decarbonizing newly 
constructed commercial and residential buildings.   
• 
A set of feasible implementation measures designed to carry out those goals, policies, and 
objectives. 
Impact to San Mateo:  
 
The City of San Mateo has already adopted building decarbonization goals, policies, and strategies in our 
Climate Action Plan which is an Appendix to our General Plan. It is unclear if the City would need to 
submit these previously adopted documents to the State Commission for review and comment.  
 
League of California Cities Position:  
 
California League of Cities has not yet published an opinion on this legislation.  
435 of 445

--- page 436 ---
Bill Number:  
SB 68 – Building Electrification and Electric Vehicle Charging (Senator Josh Becker of District 13) 
Summary of Legislation:  
This bill would require the California Energy Commission (CEC) to develop and publish guidance and 
practices to help business owners, construction industry, and local governments to overcome barriers 
on electrification of buildings and installation of electric vehicle charging equipment. 
This bill: 
   
1)       Requires the CEC to gather, develop, and publish on its internet guidance and best practices to help 
building owners, the construction industry, and local governments overcome barriers 
to electrification of buildings and installation of electrical vehicle charging equipment. 
  
2)        Authorizes the award of money under the EPIC program for projects that will benefit electricity 
ratepayers and lead to technological advancements that reduce the costs of building electrification. 
 
Impact to San Mateo:  
This bill will not have a direct impact on the City but will provide technical assistance to developers in 
implementing the City’s adopted reach codes that require building electrification for all new 
construction. The City would have to see if they are qualified for the EPIC program to apply.  
League of California Cities Position:  
California League of Cities has not yet published an opinion on this legislation.  
436 of 445

--- page 437 ---
Bill Number: 
SB 596 – Greenhouse Gases: Cement Sector: Net-Zero Emissions Strategy (Senator Josh Becker of 
District 13) 
Summary of Legislation:  
This bill would require the California Air Resources Board (ARB) to develop a comprehensive strategy for 
California’s cement and concrete sector to reduce the carbon intensity of concrete used in the state by 
at least 40% from 2019 levels by 2030 and to achieve carbon neutrality no later than 2045.  
This strategy must be written and developed by December 31, 2022. This bill would also require the 
state board to identify modifications to existing measures and evaluate new measures, such as a low-
carbon product standard for concrete and cement. 
Impact on San Mateo:  
This may impact the cost of concrete which in turn may affect the cost of building materials and 
construction projects within the City. This bill impacts every jurisdiction at the state level and would 
require the City to enforce future state and reach codes.  
League of Cities Position:  
California League of Cities has not yet published an opinion on this legislation.  
437 of 445

--- page 438 ---
Bill Number:  
AB 33 – Energy Conservation Assistance Act of 1979: Energy Storage Systems and Transportation 
Electrification Infrastructure: Native American Tribes (Senator Phil Ting of District 19 San Francisco)  
Summary of Legislation:  
This bill authorizes a school, hospital, public care institution, or unit of local government to submit an 
application to the CEC for an allocation for the purpose of funding all or a portion of the costs incurred in 
implementing an energy conservation project. This bill also expands the types of projects eligible to 
receive funding from the California Energy Commission’s (CEC) Energy Conservation Assistance Account 
(ECCA), to include installation of energy storage systems and electric vehicle (EV) infrastructure. 
Impact to San Mateo:  
This bill may result in additional available low- and no-interest loans that will help provide the City 
funding for programs that will reduce energy usage. The City currently has a no-interest loan through 
PG&E that funded lighting, building management and HVAC upgrades. The City could consider the CEC 
loan for installation of energy storage systems and EV infrastructure when these types of projects 
become eligible. 
 
League of California Cities Position:  
The League of California Cities supports the bill.  
 
438 of 445

--- page 439 ---
Bill Number: 
 
AB 43 - Traffic Safety (Assembly member Laura Friedman of the 43rd District) 
 
Summary of Legislation: 
 
This bill amends  eight sections and adds  four sections to the California Vehicle Code to enhance traffic 
safety, particularly in the realm of speed limit setting policy.  
 
California’s current policy for establishing speed limits on State highways or local roadways follows a 
prescriptive process that can generally be broken into two types – 1) statutory speed limits and 2) speed 
limits set by an “engineering and traffic survey” (E&TS).  
 
For roadways where the State or local authorities wish to establish a speed limit that differs from the 
statutory speed limit, an E&TS is required to justify the proposed speed limit. 
 
Proposed Legislation 
The changes proposed under AB 43 generally apply to the second type of speed limit described above – 
speed limits set by an engineering and traffic survey. These changes include: 
 
• Expanding the types of required information included in an E&TS to include consideration for 
residential density, if applicable, bicycles and pedestrians, particularly vulnerable pedestrian 
groups such as children, seniors, persons with disabilities, users of personal assistive mobility 
devices, and the unhoused. 
• Loosening the requirement to align proposed speed limits with prevailing speeds where one of 
the following conditions apply: 
o High concentrations of injuries have occurred, or 
o Adjacent land uses generate high concentrations of bicyclists and pedestrians, especially 
those from vulnerable groups such as children, seniors, persons with disabilities, and the 
unhoused, or  
o It is determined that previously established speeds may continue to suffice for that 
roadway segment 
o Providing additional options for proposed speed limits, including 15 and 20 mile per hour 
speed limits 
• Providing additional flexibility in the criteria that must be met to propose a speed limit below the 
statutory 25 mile per hour speed limit in the vicinity of schools. The bill also expands this 
allowance to establish speeds lower than the statutory speed limit beyond just school zones to 
include “business activity zones.” 
 
Impact to San Mateo: 
To reduce traffic congestion and promote alternative modes of transportation, the City of San Mateo has 
prioritized bicycle and pedestrian safety and improvements in the public right-of-way. While adoption of 
bicycle and pedestrian plans identify needs to enhance and close gaps in each of these networks, the 
relationship between these and the vehicle networks continue to present a challenge, particularly as it 
relates to vehicle speeds. The State’s current, stringent practice requires speed limits be set at speeds 
comfortable for motorists and generally without the context of other roadway users and thereby creates an 
inequity for those other roadway users. Assembly Bill 43 takes significant strides toward addressing this 
inequity. 
439 of 445

--- page 440 ---
While the City’s current speed limit setting practice aligns with State law, staff have recently evaluated the 
need for a City-specific speed limit policy (Policy) to clarify items within State law. The Policy would generally 
identify paths to maintain lowered speed limits in an effort to align with the City’s goals of prioritizing bicycle 
and pedestrian safety. The changes proposed in AB 43 align closely with the goals of the forthcoming Policy 
to be presented to City Council. If passed, AB 43 would likely require changes to the proposed Policy if 
adopted. However, it is not expected that the changes would be contrary to current efforts, rather expand 
on them and provide additional flexibility when considering speed limit changes.  
 
League of California Cities Position: 
The League of California Cities has not taken a position on this bill. 
 
 
440 of 445

--- page 441 ---
Bill Number: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
May be acted upon in Jan 2022 
 
AB 550 – Speed Safety System Pilot Program (Assemblymember David Chiu of San Francisco) 
 
Summary 
 
This bill authorizes Los Angeles, Oakland, San Jose, San Francisco, and one yet-to-be determined city in 
southern California to establish a Speed Safety Pilot Program for speed-limit enforcement in certain areas 
until January 1, 2027. The goal of this legislation is to reduce excessive speed and related serious 
injury/fatality collisions in a more equitable manner. 
 
Presently, traffic speed enforcement, which is critical to reduce speed violations, is conducted by police 
officers; however, research has confirmed a well-documented disparate impact of this enforcement on 
communities of color. There are tools, such as speed safety systems (primarily cameras, radar, and laser 
technology), that can assist cities in addressing excessive speeding and speed related crashes in a more 
equitable manner. These speed safety systems, when utilized in conjunction with education and traffic 
engineering, have been proven to significantly reduce speeding, improve traffic safety, and prevent traffic 
related fatalities and injuries. 
 
Impact to San Mateo: 
 
There would be no initial impact for the City of San Mateo. The impact would come after 2027, if the City 
decides to implement the program. Based on the bill’s verbiage, the responsibility for oversight of this 
program during the pilot phase rests with the involved cities’ Public Works Departments as the ‘local 
department of transportation.’ If this program is extended state-wide, it would remain to be determined 
which department in San Mateo would have responsibility for program oversight. 
 
Prior to implementation, the City would be required to do several things, including: 
• 
Adopt a Speed Safety Use Policy and a Speed Safety System Impact Report 
o Work with relevant stakeholders in the development of this report 
• 
Assess equity impacts on local neighborhoods from program operation 
• 
Engage in a Public Information Campaign for at least 30 days 
• 
Issue warning notices for 30 days 
• 
Develop uniform guidelines for the processing and storage of confidential information. 
 
Financial/Legal/Operational Impact 
 
Citations issued under this program would be civil in nature and would not result in ‘points’ on driver’s 
records, or license suspensions/revocations. The bill specifies certain citation amounts, based on the speed 
involved in the violation. This could result in reduced revenue from speed citation issuance, which would 
need further study to confirm. Depending on the scale of San Mateo’s adoption of such a program, there 
would be a need to add staffing to address program administration and maintenance. 
 
For context, data on speed related collisions and citations are listed below. 
 
Collisions Related to Speed 
Year 
Speed Related 
Total Collisions Citywide 
2019 
95 
675 
2020 
59 
477 
2021 
28 
245 
441 of 445

--- page 442 ---
Citations Related to Speed 
Year 
Speed Related 
Total Citations Citywide 
2019 
71 
6068 
2020 
103 
4210 
2021 
291 
4466 
 
 
League of California Cities position: 
 
The League of California Cities supports the bill.  
 
 
 
442 of 445

--- page 443 ---
Bill Number:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
May be acted upon in Jan 2022 
 
AB 629 - San Francisco Bay Area: Public Transportation (Assemblymember David Chiu of San Francisco) 
 
Summary of Legislation: 
 
California Assembly Bill 629 (AB 629) is known as the Seamless and Resilient Bay Area Transit Act. The bill 
aims to create a more seamless and resilient public transportation network through improvement in the 
coordination between the 27 transit agencies throughout the nine Bay Area counties. Under the bill, the 
Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) would be directed to work with the transportation agencies 
in the region to build a connected and coordinated regional public transportation system.  
 
The current draft of AB 629 outlines the following actions: 
1. MTC would be required to develop a transit priority network for the region that designates corridors 
to provide faster and more reliable transit, including ensuring regional managed lanes support the 
region’s transit system by January 1, 2024. 
2. MTC would work to align transit fare structure and costs, by submitting the Fare Coordination and 
Integration Study to the Senate Transportation Committee by February 2022, providing progress to 
date on implementation by January 2023, and creating a pilot accumulator pass between operators 
by July 2023.  
3. MTC would be required to work with transit agencies to develop a comprehensive standardized 
regional transit mapping and wayfinding system, including branding, design standards, and an 
implementation and maintenance strategy on or before July 1, 2024. By July 1, 2025, transit agencies 
shall convert to using only this system unless MTC adopts an alternate deployment timeline.  
4. Transit operators would be required to make real-time transit data available and report to MTC by 
January 1, 2023 on the ability to predict transit schedules using real-time data. 
 
 
Impact to San Mateo: 
 
With numerous transit agencies operating in and through the City of San Mateo and San Mateo County, 
connectivity and seamless mobility between services would be an integral step in increasing transit 
ridership. Establishing a shared fare system, coordinated wayfinding, and incentives for frequent transit use 
complements the commute patterns typically seen in the Bay Area, and streamlines a complex system to 
make travel more intuitive and smoother for San Mateo users.  
 
MTC has made efforts in the past to increase coordination and connectivity between Bay Area transit 
agencies, but separate mapping, scheduling, fare structures, and costs continue to make navigating transfers 
between services confusing for users. While the contents of the bill may be modified, the structure of 
requiring incremental steps over the next few years may support the progress toward a coordinated regional 
system that mirrors how transit trips actually take place.  
 
While AB 629 contains critical components to develop a safe and seamless transit system, the bill is not yet 
complete as the recommendations from the Task Force have not yet been published, and the bill is not set 
to be considered again by the Appropriations Committee until January 2022. The bill may be modified when 
443 of 445

--- page 444 ---
the Task Force recommendations are published so the bill is currently on hold. Council may want to consider 
not taking a position on this bill at this time.  
 
League of California Cities Position: 
 
The League of California Cities has not taken a position on this bill. SPUR, Transform, the Bay Area Council, and 
the Silicon Valley Leadership Group have issued letters of support for the bill.  
 
 
444 of 445

--- page 445 ---
Bill Number:  
 
AB 1238 – Pedestrian Access (Assemblymember Phil Ting of San Francisco) 
 
Summary of Legislation: 
 
This bill would remove certain prohibitions on jaywalking and remove the authority of local jurisdictions to 
adopt related ordinances.  
 
Existing law prohibits the following for pedestrians: 
 
• 
Entering the roadway if the pedestrian is facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow warning 
signal unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal, as specified.  
• 
Crossing at any place except a crosswalk between adjacent intersections controlled by traffic 
control signal devices or by police officers. 
• 
Suddenly leaving a curb or other place of safety and walking or running into the path of a vehicle 
that is so close as to constitute an immediate hazard. 
 
This bill would change the vehicle code to only require that pedestrians do the following: 
 
• 
Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway that are so near as to constitute an 
immediate hazard. 
o Immediate hazard would be defined as existing “if the approaching vehicle is so near or 
is approaching so fast that a reasonably careful person would realize that there is a 
danger of collision.” 
 
Impact to San Mateo: 
 
AB 1238 would change the way PD staff enforces jaywalking related laws, requiring a consideration of 
whether alleged violations meet the ‘immediate hazard’ threshold. It would also likely require revision 
of section 11.52 of the Municipal Code. 
 
Based on a review of collision and citation data from the past few years, there is not a significant impact 
based on jaywalking enforcement. 
 
Collisions related to Jaywalking: 
Year 
Collisions 
Total Citywide 
2019 
0 
675 
2020 
0 
477 
2021 
0 
245 
 
Citations related to Jaywalking: 
Year 
Citations 
Total Citywide 
2019 
7 
6068 
2020 
21 
4210 
2021 
11 
4466 
 
League of California Cities position: 
 
California League of Cities has not yet published an opinion on this legislation. 
445 of 445