source: packet.pdf
sha256: 777e4b6d318441176e5ff59ca5c1460088912c7a4fc9a8d9b12cddb27cee686f
pages: 112
ocr_pages: 11
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission
September 10, 2020
7:00 PM
Location: Remote
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Ellen Mallory, Chair
Ramiro Maldonado, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Mike Etheridge
Margaret Williams
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY - THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT
TO AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: September 10, 2020 Planning Commission Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968 Meeting ID – 850 5068 4855
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
Approve the minutes of the Planning Commission meeting of July 28, 2020.
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's jurisdiction
that are not on the agenda. Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of 15 minutes
for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's jurisdiction. The
Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the agenda, but shall
refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 of the San Mateo
Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those issues raised at the
public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing. Some public
hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
2.
Modification to Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 - RES 6 (PA-2020-033)
Approve the Site Plan and Architectural Review modifications and amendment to Condition of Approval #47
for 2600 S. Delaware Street (RES 6).
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items
ADJOURNMENT

--- page 2 ---
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and
can be viewed on the City’s website at www.cityofsanmateo.org.
Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: there are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you will be added to the meeting. All attendees are
muted by default. To speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638- 0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of meeting agenda.
To indicate you want to provide public comment, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations
to participate in this meeting may contact the Planning Division at planning@cityofsanmateo.org or (650) 522-7212 .
Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
Agenda Report 
 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
Agenda Number:  1 
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
File ID: 20-3565 
 
TO: 
Planning Commission 
FROM: 
Christina Horrisberger 
PREPARED BY: 
Community Development Department 
MEETING DATE: 
September 10, 2020  
SUBJECT: 
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes 
 
RECOMMENDATION: 
Approve the minutes of the Planning Commission meeting of July 28, 2020. 
 
ATTACHMENTS 
Att 1 – 07-28-2020 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes 
 
STAFF CONTACT 
Erin Fellers 
Assistant to the City Clerk 
efellers@cityofsanmateo.org  
(650) 522-7040

--- page 4 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 07/28/20 
 
Page 1 
COMISSION MEMBERS 
Ellen Mallory, Chair 
Ramiro Maldonado, Vice Chair 
Mike Etheridge 
John Ebneter 
Margaret Williams 
 
City of San Mateo  
Regular Meeting Minutes 
Planning Commission 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
  
Tuesday, July 28, 2020 
Remote 7:00 PM 
Regular Meeting 
  
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency. 
 
Pledge of Allegiance 
 
Roll Call 
 
Remote:   Ellen Mallory, Ramiro Maldonado, John Ebneter, Margaret Williams 
Absent:    Mike Etheridge 
 
Before the meeting commenced, Commissioner Mike Etheridge recused himself from the Public Hearing agenda 
item as his wife is an employee of Holland & Knight, the law firm which is working with the applicant, albeit in a 
different practice group. Although her practice is not related to the group working with the applicant, to avoid any 
perception of conflict of interest, he recused himself from this and any future agenda items which relate to the 
Concar Passage Mixed-Use Project. 
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
1. 
Planning Commission - Meeting Minutes Approval  
Approve the minutes of the Planning Commission meeting of July 14, 2020. Motion passed 4-0 with one 
abstention. 
 
Moved:  Maldonado, Seconded: Ebneter 
Ayes:   Mallory, Maldonado, Ebneter, Williams 
Noes:   None 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
There were no speakers. 
 
PUBLIC HEARING 
2. 
Concar Passage Mixed Use Project, Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR), Site Development Planning 
Application (SDPA), Vesting Tentative Map, Development Agreement, and Supplemental Environmental Impact 
Report (EIR) (PA-2018-052) 
 
Acting Senior Planner Rendell Bustos and Contract Planner Lisa Costa-Sanders provided a presentation reviewing 
the project’s background, applicable codes and policies, project design, subsequent progress made, and 
recommendations to be brought to the City Council. Lisa Costa-Sanders presented a review of the transportation 
impact memos, parking, and Environmental Impact Report (EIR). Applicant Brian Myers, partner with California 
Costal Properties, presented on amenities and improvements. Architect Peter Berger presented design changes,

--- page 5 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 07/28/20 
 
Page 2 
clarifications, and pedestrian and traffic safety updates. Commissioners asked questions of staff and Commission 
Chair Mallory opened the Public Hearing. 
 
Public Comment: 
 
Richard Hedges voiced support for the development, and expressed concerns for potential impacts to businesses; 
Jonathan New in support as it eliminates need for vehicles; Richard Neve spoke to traffic impact concerns and is in 
favor of saving funds to mitigate existing and future problems; Adam Loraine supported the project; Evelyn 
Stivers, Housing Leadership Council, supportive of housing for all income levels, especially given the current 
pandemic. 
 
Chai expressed concern for construction and noise impacts on neighboring households in the 19th Ave. Park 
neighborhood and suggested a sound wall; Kelsey Banes, Peninsula for Everyone, supportive of the project given 
the dire housing shortage; Jonathan Stern, BRIDGE Housing, supportive of transit-oriented setting and close access 
to services and amenities; Martin noted proximity to transit, jobs and retail.  
 
Doug Chesshire, Field Representative, Carpenters Local 217, expressed support for the project and California 
Costal Properties’ commitment to the San Mateo; Samuel Deutcsh expressed support due to sustainable 
commuting once Caltrain is electrified; Kueller is supportive of the use of land for housing as opposed to an empty 
parking lot; Jordan Grimes supportive but would have preferred below-market-rate and moderately priced units 
over traffic improvements; and Isabella Chu is supportive of prioritizing housing over cars. 
 
As there were no more speakers, Commission Chair Mallory closed the Public Hearing. Commissioners asked 
questions of staff and provided comments.  
 
Each Commissioner expressed gratitude to staff, the applicant, and members of the public who participated and 
offered input. The Commission thanked the applicant for implementing community benefits such as open spaces, 
low-income units, and childcare. The Commissioners all expressed support for the project, but shared concern for 
the removal of moderate housing units, citing the community’s general housing shortage. The Commission 
preferred that the funds going toward traffic mitigation be applied to building more housing but recognized the 
need to remedy existing and future traffic congestion and safety issues.  
 
The Planning Commission recommend City Council approval of the project with the following motions as outlined 
in the proposed City Council Resolution: 
 
Recommend adoption of the Supplemental Environmental Impact Report, as adequate to assess the 
environmental impacts of the project, based on the Findings for Approval; Recommend approval of the: a) Site 
Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR); b) Site Development Planning Application (SDPA); and c) Vesting Tentative 
Map; to allow the development of 961 residential units and 40,000 square feet of commercial space with 
associated common area based on the Findings for Approval and subject to the Conditions of Approval; and 
Recommend approval of the Development Agreement. Motion passed 4-0. 
 
Moved:  Ebneter, Seconded: Maldonado 
Ayes:   
Mallory, Maldonado, Ebneter, Williams 
Noes:   None 
 
 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Planning Manager Aaron Aknin reminded the Commission of important planning-related items going to Council in

--- page 6 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 07/28/20 
 
Page 3 
August. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
The meeting adjourned at 9:11 p.m. 
 
 
APPROVED BY: 
SUBMITTED BY: 
 
 
                                                           __ 
                                                            
Mike Etheridge, Commission Chair  
Erin Fellers, Planning Secretary

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 20-3450
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
September 10, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Modification to Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 - RES 6 (PA-2020-033)
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the Site Plan and Architectural Review modifications and amendment to Condition of Approval #47 for 2600 S. 
Delaware Street (RES 6).
BACKGROUND:
Residential Block #6 (RES 6) was originally approved by the Planning Commission on October 14, 2008, as part of the Site 
Plan and Architectural Review #2 (SPAR #2) for Bay Meadows Phase II planning application (PA-2007-055). The project’s 
scope and technical parameters were established in the original Environmental Impact Report (EIR) for the San Mateo Rail 
Corridor Transit-Oriented Development and the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment (Specific Plan 
Amendment) and re-certified in the Final EIR for the Specific Plan Amendment. 
The approved project consisted of one residential building comprised of 54 for-sale townhome units located within three 
and four-story building sections totaling 105,164 square-feet (sq. ft.).  The Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines and 
Development Standards (Design Guidelines) provide developers general guidance in designing buildings and environments 
in the plan area, while the Specific Plan Amendment’s Development Framework Plan provides the technical development 
standards for each of the permitted land uses. The administrative report reviewed by the Planning Commission for the 
October 14, 2008, public hearing is included as Attachment 1. 
The adopted Conditions of Approval requires that staff determine whether the proposed modifications substantially 
conform to the approved application or whether a planning application modification is required. The applicant submitted a 
building permit application for the proposed modifications in December of 2019. In evaluating the submitted building 
permit plans, the adopted Conditions of Approval, and relevant Municipal Code sections, staff received direction from the 
City Attorney’s Office certain design changes the applicant is proposing require a SPAR Modification and Planning 
Commission approval. If approved, the applicant would proceed with the building permit application process with the 
City’s Building Division to permit construction. It should be noted that previous modifications to Bay Meadows Phase II 
projects, such as STA 1, STA 5, MU2, and MU3, warranted Study Sessions with the Planning Commission given that those 
projects included much larger shifts in the floor area and residential density than proposed in RES 6, as detailed below.
Proposed Modifications
The applicant proposes several modifications to the originally approved project which have been summarized in the 
subsections below. The applicant has provided a Project Description and SPAR Modification Matrix which has been 
included as Attachment 2.

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Building Floor Area
Apartment, condominium, and loft developments in Bay Meadows II were permitted to abide by the 3.0 maximum floor 
area ratio (FAR) specified for the R6-D zoning district. The original project was approved with a 2.22 FAR. The proposed 
building floor area of the project would be reduced from 105,164 sq. ft. to 95,036 sq. ft. (2.0 FAR) as a result of removing 
floor area from the interior courtyard side of the building and expanding common area amenities necessary to achieve 
both an economically feasible and marketable project. No minimum FAR was specified as part of the originally approved 
SPAR Conditions for RES 6.
Bedroom Count Composition 
The proposed SPAR modification maintains the originally approved 54 dwelling unit total, however, the composition of the 
bedroom counts for the units has changed as indicated in the table provided below.
RES 6 Bedroom Count Composition
As Approved (PA-2007-055)
As Proposed (PA-2020-033)
Bedroom Type
Unit Count
Unit Count
1-Bedroom
0
5
2-Bedroom
21
23
3-Bedroom
33
26
Total DUs
54
54
Prior to submitting the SPAR Modification planning application, the applicant executed a below market rate (BMR) 
agreement with the City specifying how the BMR requirement would be satisfied for the residential development. The 
change in the bedroom count composition resulted in the net change of one 1-Bedroom BMR unit gained in exchange for 
the loss of one 2-Bedroom BMR unit. The project as proposed will provide one 1-Bedroom, one 2-Bedroom, and three 3-
Bedroom BMR units overall.
A Factual Data Sheet is included as Attachment 3. 
Elevations
The applicant has proposed additional courtyard facing amenities, including a fitness center and a communal lounge to 
enhance marketability. These improvements include minor changes to the courtyard facing elevations such as the 
inclusion of cement Hardie paneling to match with the street-facing elevations. Additionally, the balconies on the multi-
story apartments have been reduced from two to one, while the large ground-floor patio spaces facing the main courtyard 
are retianed. The Design Guidelines allow for balconies on residential development blocks but does not require them. 
Parking Stalls and Layout
The Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment established the parking standards for the plan area, providing a range 
of parking ratios (1.75 to 2.25 spaces/unit) and requirements for each of the specified land use (i.e. Commercial, 
Residential, and Mixed-Use) development blocks. The actual parking ratios within the permitted range were finalized at the 
time of entitlement for each of the respective SPARs. 
The Parking Management Plan (PMP) dated August 19, 2008, approved under SPAR #2 (PA-2007-055) specified a parking 
ratio range for multi-family residential blocks not to exceed 1.75 to 2.25 spaces per unit. The originally approved project 
provided 111 parking spaces (only 108 spaces required) for residents in addition to 11 on-street parking spaces for guests 
resulting in a parking ratio provision of 2.05 spaces/unit (ratio includes spaces provided in excess of the requirement). The 
currently proposed project reduces the total number of required stalls to 103 spaces as a result of the changes in bedroom 
count composition. It should be noted the proposed project provides three additional stalls in excess of the required 
amount for a total of 106 spaces on-site and maintains the same number of on-street guest spaces as previously approved. 
The resulting new parking ratio provision for the project is 1.96 spaces/unit. 
The parking layout has been changed in conjunction with the relocated driveway and building footprint modifications 
discussed in this report. To accommodate the changes, 18 of the originally approved compact tandem spaces have been

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
eliminated and the number of standard stall tandem parking spaces has increased from 13 to 25. The redesigned garage 
now provides a total of 41 compact stalls overall. The Specific Plan Amendment does not prescribe a maximum permitted 
number of compact parking stalls. However, San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Section 27.64.265 does allow up to 40 
percent compact spaces where the number of required spaces is more than 100. As such, the 41 proposed compact single 
stalls meets the permitted 40 percent maximum. 
The applicant submitted a memorandum to the PMP dated August 26, 2020, provided by Kimley Horn. The memorandum 
provided an analysis of the proposed parking-related modifications and concluded the changes to the bedroom count 
composition of the units corresponded with the decrease of on-site parking and still adequately satisfied the prescribed 
parking requirement for RES 6. Additionally, an evaluation of parking for all residential blocks and development within the 
Bay Meadows Plan II plan area demonstrated there is a surplus of parking. As such, the revised project is still compliant 
with the required parking parameters established in the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment and the parking 
standards of the PMP approved under SPAR #2 (PA-2007-055). 
The parking memorandum from Kimley-Horn dated August 26, 2020, is included as Attachment 4.
Building Footprint Modifications
The design of the original underground garage was approved with a design exception to allow portions of the garage wall 
perimeter to intrude 8-feet into the 10-foot setback area which was invisible from street-level. The proposed changes to 
the bedroom count composition and resulting reduction of required parking allows for a reduction in the garage’s overall 
footprint, removing the encroachment into the setback along Landing Avenue (previously 30th Avenue). The proposed 
modifications increase compliance with the City’s municipal code. 
A SPAR Approved vs. Proposed Modifications comparative plan set is included as Attachment 5.  
Garage Driveway and On-Street Loading Space Relocation
The proposed modifications include relocating the approved driveway location along Baze Road approximately 22 feet 
further north to accommodate an enlarged amenity area on the ground-floor, inclusion of a bike storage room at-grade, 
and to facilitate better vehicle circulation in the parking garage. The proposed redesign has been reviewed by the Public 
Works Department and meets all of the applicable driveway design and associated requirements. 
The applicant submitted a tree removal permit (ST-2020-000134) in April 2020, to remove two street trees located along 
Baze Road to meet utility provider access requirements and to accommodate the location of the proposed new driveway 
ramp. The permit was subsequently approved on August 11, 2020, by the Department of Parks and Recreation. The 
applicant has elected to pay a fee in-lieu of providing replacement trees per the provisions of Condition #25 of the 
approved conditions of approval. 
The project was approved with two on-street loading zones located along Kyne Street and Baze Road. In conjunction with 
the relocated garage driveway entrance, the on-street loading space along the frontage of Baze Road has been relocated 
southward to provide required clearances and a more convenient trash pick-up location. Both loading zones are dual use 
zones to be utilized as loadings zones between the hours of 7 am and 6 pm and available as an on-street parking space 
outside of those designated times. 
Bike Storage Rooms and Amendment to Approved Condition
When SPAR #2 was originally entitled, the City’s bicycle parking requirements were not as developed as current municipal 
code requirements. Rather than a specific parking stall count, the project was required to provide two 9’ x 18’ parking 
facilities equaling 324 sq. ft. in total parking facility space. The approved project satisfied the requirement by providing 432 
sq. ft. of parking facility space. However, the Planning Commission at the time expressed concerns regarding the adequacy 
of the bike parking facilities on-site and added Condition #47 which specified RES 4 and RES 6 were to provide a physical 
device in front of the parking stalls on-site to enable bicycle parking (“such as a ring installed in concrete or a heavy cable) 
provided the installation or use of the device did not cause the approved parking design to be in conflict with applicable 
municipal code requirements.

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The applicant is seeking to amend Condition #47 of the originally approved SPAR in preference of locating long-term 
parking in secure bike storage rooms to avoid potential theft and parking obstruction issues. The proposed amendment 
would not remove the aforementioned condition of approval, but rather modify it to require compliance if the proposed 
bike storage rooms cannot satisfy current long-term bicycle parking requirements. 
The proposed modifications slightly increase the originally approved bike storage room in the garage to approximately 473 
sq. ft. and provide an additional 302 sq. ft. bike storage room at street-level with direct access to the public right-of-way. 
Current bicycle parking requirements for multi-family development is determined by the number of bedrooms in each 
unit. Based on the revised bedroom count composition, the project is required to provide 73 long-term bike stalls and 
seven short-term stalls. The two aforementioned bike storage rooms will provide parking for a combined total of 80 
bicycles. The project also requires the provision of six (6) short-term bicycle spaces which has been satisfied with the 
installation of three (3) U-racks located around the perimeter of the project site as part of previous infrastructure 
improvements.
The amended draft Condition #47 is included as Attachment 6. The originally approved SPAR #2 Conditions of Approval 
(October 14, 2008) with amended Condition #47 incorporated is included as Attachment 7. 
Open Space
The Development Framework Plan outlined open space requirements for apartments, condominium, and lofts, in the Bay 
Meadows Phase II plan area. The requirements are allowed to be met through a provision of private open space, common 
usable open space, or a proportional combination of both. 
The proposed modifications include a redistribution of the approved provision of open space which correspond to the 
floorplan and unit mix adjustments. The resulting combination of private open space and common usable open space 
provides an increase in the total overall amount of open space for the project and satisfies the open space requirements 
for the development as detailed in the table below. 
OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS
REQUIREMENT
Req. Area
As Approved
As Proposed
Private Open Space (80 sq. ft./unit)
4,320 sq. ft.
5,376 sq. ft.
4,384 sq. ft.
Usable Common Open Space (150% 
x Private Open Space Req.)
6,480 sq. ft.
6,495 sq. ft
8,538 sq. ft.
Total Open Space
10,800 SF
11,871 sq. ft.
12,922 sq. ft.
Landscaping and Outdoor Amenities
The proposed modifications include minor alterations to the landscaping palette and outdoor amenities to enhance the 
resident experience and project marketability. The changes include the addition of a large courtyard trellis to provide a 
shade structure for outdoor dining and fire feature to serve as a focal point of the shared outdoor space. The Design 
Guidelines does encourage the use of pergolas, loggia, and similar architectural features provided it enhances the 
architectural character of the associated building. Additionally, the wooden landscape gates previously set deeper within 
the courtyard interior have been relocated closer to the perimeter to allow for more secure courtyard and common open 
space. 
The Design Guidelines provide landscape requirements intended to promote high-quality open space and streetscape. 
Emphasis is placed on drought-tolerant and habitat-oriented plantings which aid in reducing sitewide water consumption 
and providing valuable habitat for native wildlife. The applicant proposes a modified plant palette that utilizes drought 
tolerant species which have a demonstrated track record of success at Bay Meadows. An inventory of the proposed 
planting palette is included in Attachment 4.

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Exterior Color Palette and Materials
The Design Guidelines provide general instruction related to exterior color palette, encouraging color range to avoid 
“monolithic” appearances and a preference toward coordinated color tones to avoid a patchwork appearance. The use of 
overly bright colors is specifically discouraged.
The proposed exterior color palette is consistent with the Guidelines and the changes are nearly indistinguishable from the 
original color palette approved under SPAR #2. The originally approved and currently proposed color palettes are included 
in the SPAR Approved vs. Proposed Modifications comparative plan set included in Attachment 4.
Solar Photovoltaic Panels
The previously approved project did not include solar photovoltaic panels in the original design. The applicant is proposing 
to install solar photovoltaic panels on the roof top of the three-story portion of the development fronting Landing Avenue. 
The panels would be seen only from the interior courtyard perspective by residents of the project. Ballasted or pipe 
supported panels on other roof segments of the project would be hidden from street and resident views by parapet walls.  
It should be noted the proposed installation of photovoltaic panels is consistent with the City’s Climate Action Plan and 
compliant with the State’s mandatory local Green Building and Energy Code requirements that stipulates all new low-rise 
residential construction projects provide installation of photovoltaic systems. 
Building and Parapet Height
Maximum building heights within the Bay Meadows Phase II plan area were established in the San Mateo Rail Corridor 
Transit-Oriented Development Plan & Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment. Most of the development blocks in the 
plan area, including RES 6, permit maximum building heights up to 55 feet. However, RES 6 (and some of the other 
development zones within the plan area) has a specified height threshold whereby any proposed building exceeding 45 
feet in height requires consistency with the five Measure P findings specified in Land Use Policy 1.5 of the City’s General 
Plan. 
RES 6 as originally approved under SPAR #2 utilized an average grade plane elevation height of 113.7’ to establish the basis 
for determining building height and was approved with a maximum building height of 41’-3 5/8” (or 155.0’ grade 
elevation) as measured to the building’s top plate. The applicant proposes to increase the ceiling heights at each story 
resulting in a 2-foot increase to the overall building height to 157.0’ (grade elevation) from 155.0’ as approved under SPAR 
#2. It should be noted, per SMMC Section 27.04.080, building height is established by measuring from the lowest existing 
grade around the building perimeter to the top of the highest plate. All vertical height dimensions discussed in the 
remainder of this section are based off the lowest grade (112.6’).
The redesigned building proposes a maximum building height of 44’-4 3/4” as measured from the lowest existing grade 
elevation to the building’s top plate (157.0’). As such, the proposed new building height is well under the 55-foot building 
height maximum and below the 45-foot height threshold that would necessitate Measure P findings. 
In addition to the increased top plate height, the proposed modifications include varied increases to the parapet heights 
across the project intended to meet OSHA safety guidelines and provide adequate screening for the solar installations and 
rooftop equipment from street view. Architectural features such as roof peaks and parapets are permitted to extend 
above established building height limits. The proposed increases to parapet heights range from 1’-2” up to 4’-4”. Visually, 
the building will measure 51’-8 3/4” from the lowest grade elevation to the top of the highest parapet or architectural 
feature. 
It should be noted the EIR for the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit Oriented Development Plan and the Bay Meadows II 
Specific Plan Amendment analyzed “building height” to the top of occupiable building space and allowed for roof peaks 
and rooftop equipment enclosures to extend beyond that limit consistent with the current definition for building height 
and the height exceptions specified in SMMC Sections 27.04.080 and 27.02.060.

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The City prepared an Environmental Impact Report (EIR), certified by the City Council in 2005. The Final EIR states that 
applications for subsequent SPAR applications may not require preparation of subsequent environmental documentation 
unless substantial changes to the project are proposed under CEQA Guidelines 15162. The City has determined that none 
of the circumstances requiring preparation of a subsequent or supplemental EIR are present for the subject SPAR 
modification. The Res 6 building was originally included in a multi-Block Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) 
approved by the Planning Commission on October 14, 2008, (PA-07-055 Bay Meadows II “SPAR 2”). SPAR 2 covered several 
Blocks in the Specific Plan area and set the parameters for the various buildings to function well together. The City relied 
on the Final EIR for the Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment in approving SPAR 2. The proposed modifications to the 
site design do not change any of the information or conclusions in the Final EIR or implicate any of the factors in CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15162. Therefore, no additional CEQA review is required.
NOTICE PROVIDED
In accordance with Government Code section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this item was 
noticed to the following parties ten days in advance of the Planning Commission meeting: 

Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site; 

The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects; and

The interested parties list which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Administrative Report (October 14, 2008)
Att 2 – Project Description and SPAR Modification Matrix
Att 3 – Factual Data Sheet
Att 4 – Kimley Horn Parking Management Plan Memorandum (August 26, 2020)
Att 5 – SPAR Approved vs. Proposed Modifications Comparative Project Plans
Att 6 – Amended Draft Condition #47
Att 7 – SPAR #2 Conditions of Approval (October 14, 2008)
STAFF CONTACT
Phillip Brennan, Associate Planner, AICP
pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7218

--- page 13 ---
r Date of meeting: 10/14/2008
Agenda Item: l

Planning Commission = APPROVED
BY: | WN

onald Munekawa,
Chief of Planning

DATE: September 26, 2008

SUBMITTED 0"
BY: i

Julia Weh, Associate Planner
Phone: (650) 522-7216 Fax: 522-7201
Email: jyeh@cityofsanmateo.org
SUBJECT: PA 07-055
Bay Meadows Phase I] SPAR#2 (Public Hearing)
2600 S. Delaware St., (APNs: 040-030-190)

RECOMMENDATION

That the Planning Commission approve the proposed development project by making the
following motions: |

OA. Approve the Site Plan and Architectural Review planning application for the
development of 330 residential housing units, the Neighborhood Park, and a portion of
the View Corridor, based upon the Findings for Approval in Exhibit A and subject to the

' Conditions of Approval in Exhibit B.

BACKGROUND

The project is the implementation of the City San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented
Development Plan, which calls for a transit-oriented development near the Hillsdale CalTrain .
station. The development of the Bay Meadows Phase II project area is a compact development
with a range of land uses, including housing, commercial, office, open spaces, and parks, located

close to the station to reduce vehicle trips.

The framework for redevelopment of the Bay Meadows Race Track with a transit-oriented |
development project are established in previous approvals, as follows:

® April 2005. City Council certification of the San Mateo Rail Corridor Plan/ Bay
Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment Environmental Impact Report.
5 @. June 2005. City Council adoption of the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented -
i Development Plan.
@ November 2005. City Council adoption of the Bay Meadows Phase IJ Specific Plan
Amendment, Development Agreement and Vesting Tentative Parcel Map.

© December 2006. Planning Commission approval of the Bay Meadows Phase II Design ;
Guidelines and Development Standards. :



--- page 14 ---
City Council Administrative Report
Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 Page 2 of 10

® October 2007, Planning Commission approval of the Vesting Tentative Subdivision Map
for-the creation of 38 parcels and the Site Development Permit for site preparation and
infrastructure work (demolition, tree removal, rough grading, street construction, utility
installation) that provides the backbone for future development of the blocks.

A Planning Commission workshop was held on June 27, 2007 to discuss the review process for
consideration of the SPARs for the Bay Meadows Phase II development of 17 of the 18
developable blocks. The 17 blocks were divided into three Site Plan and Architectural Review
(SPAR) planning applications (Attachment #1).

The three SPAR planning applications were submitted in June 2007. SPAR #1 was reviewed by
Planning Commission and approved by the City Council on April 21, 2008.

The development proposed in this application is the second SPAR application for the Bay
Meadows Phase II project area. A total three Planning Commission workshops on the SPAR #2
application were held in 2007 and 2008 (Attachment #2):

¢ October 2007. Planning Commission workshop provided an overview SPARs #2 & #3
and a discussion of the relationship between the three SPARs. The Commission provided
comments and asked for further details for each SPAR.

e June 2008. Planning Commission workshop with a discussion of the design approach
and site layout for each SPAR #2 residential block. The Commission provided comments
regarding building design and asked for further clarification of site improvements,
including the Neighborhood Park.

e July 2008. Parks and Recreation Commission workshop to review preliminary plans for
the Neighborhood Park. The Commission provided comments regarding site features and
concluded with a recommendation to the Planning Commission to support the project
with a restroom in the Neighborhood Park.

e August 2008. Planning Commission workshop to allow the applicant to review building
design and site changes with the Commission and seek further input. Conclusion of the
workshop phase of the SPAR with a discussion of the outstanding Planning Commission
interests for SPAR #2.

SPAR #3 is currently being reviewed by staff.
PROJECT INFORMATION

Location: The project site is approximately 16 net acres containing five developable blocks
(Residential Blocks 4, 5, 6, 8, and 9), a portion of the View Corridor (east of Baze Road), and the
Neighborhood Park (Attachment #1). The project site is zoned BMSP (Bay Meadows Specific
Plan) and: the General Plan land use designation is Transit-Oriented Development. The site is
located in the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan Area and the Bay
Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment area.

Development Program: The project includes 8 plan sets for the five residential blocks
(Attachment #22), The development includes 330 residential housing units, the eastern portion of


--- page 15 ---
City Council Administrative Report
Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 Page 3 of 10

the View Corridor, and the Neighborhood Park. A condition of approval for the Specific Plan
Amendment created a “trip budget” to limit the amount of development that could be constructed
prior to commencement of construction of. the grade separated crossings at either 28" or 31"
Avenue. The Traffic Management Plan (Attachment #13) documents the specific level of
development that could be constructed without exceeding the trip budget, which consists of all of
the residential units in SPARs #1-3 (total of 1,066 units).

ISSUES |

SPAR Approval Items: The SPAR planning application plans, provided by the application on
August 12, 2008, includes a variety of building and site plan components that are considered as
part of this application. These include:

e Building size and program. Building height, floor area, residential density, unit sizes and
bedroom counts, and amount of parking.

e Site plans: Building footprint, landscaping, driveway locations, pedestrian access
locations, setbacks, hardscape materials, and stormwater quality strategies.

e Floor plans: Rooms, doors, windows, parking spaces, lobbies, mechanical/storage areas,
structural elements, parking aisles and driveways, parking gates, trash/recycling
locations, bicycle parking, etc.

e Roof plans: roof slopes, parapet locations, stairs and hatches to roofs, and equipment
locations.

e Building elevations: Doors, windows, roof pitches, building trim, storefronts, detailing,
etc.

Building materials and colors.

e Civil engineering plans (includes items on private blocks or finalization of items in right-
of-way that were approved in Site Development Permit): street loading zone locations
and time restrictions (street signs), driveway locations, easements, grading, drainage,
stormwater quality treatment methods, utility connections and equipment locations,
preliminary lighting fixtures and locations, and finished floor elevations.

Landscaping plans: landscaping and hardscape designs, fencing and courtyard furniture.

Neighborhood Park and Promenade (View Corridor) Plans. The schematic park plans
show planting and restroom locations and hardscape, as well cross sections showing the
elevations of the park with adjacent buildings and a preliminary planting palate. Final
approval of the Neighborhood Park hardscape surfaces, site furnishings, restroom, and
plantings are subject to the review and approval of the Park and Recreation Director.

Planning Commission Workshop: - The August 26, 2008 Planning Commission workshop,
allowed the applicant to present the project and discuss revisions with the Planning Commission.
In reviewing the August 12, 2008 project plans at the August 26", the Plantiing Commission
reviewed the revised building ‘designs, site layouts, and material included in the SPAR 2
Summary Booklet and indicated that the revisions have improved the project. The Commission
also asked for clarification on the following items for the public hearing:


--- page 16 ---
City Council Administrative Report

Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 Page 4 of 10

e Try to find a solution for the RES 4 individual unit exits to the Neighborhood Park.

e Enhance building end elevations and auto-court elevations on some townhome buildings
in RES 5, 8, and 9b.

Provide details for proposed windows and information regarding the quality of windows.
Provide information regarding bike rack and locations.
Provide details for proposed fences in RES 9.

Provide section showing the relationship between new single-family homes on RES 9a
and the existing homes south of the project site on McLellan Avenue.

Improve pedestrian connections through the View Corridor to RES 5 and 8.

Improve pedestrian circulation at the portion of the community path adjacent to Franklin
Templeton property and near 31 Avenue.

e Provide information on the affect of tandem parking to availability of on-street parking.

As mentioned at the August 26, 2008 workshop, in an effort to reduce paper waste, the
application has provided revised drawings to replace and/or supplement information in the
August 12, 2008 plans. The following changes and supplemental information have been
provided by the applicant:

e Facade changes to the elevations for RES 5 buildings D, E, F, G, and L; RES 8 building
F; and RES 9b buildings K, L, and O have been made.
Details for proposed windows, bike racks and fences have been provided.
Pedestrian and bike connections in the View Corridor, RES 5 and RES 8 have been
improved.

e A supplemental memorandum from Kimley-Horn evaluated the affected of tandem
parking on the availability of on-street parking.

e A solution has been agreed upon by both the applicant and the Department of Parks and
Recreation regarding the RES 4 individual unit exits to the Neighborhood Park.

Revisions and Supplemental! Information:

The applicant has revised building elevations to enhance the ends of buildings, trellis and
plantings have been added to soften the facades adjacent to the auto-courts, and variation in unit
facades have been added to building F in RES 8 to distinguish individual units. The revisions to
the building elevations are consistent with the Bay Meadows Design Guidelines, are compatible
with the proposed architectural style for the respective buildings, and further improve a well
designed and planned new community. Conditions of approval for the project reference the
supplemental materials and require incorporation into the final building permit plans.

The Department of Public Works has reviewed the Kimley-Horn’s memorandum on the affect of
tandem parking on the availability of on-street parking, dated September 3, 2008 (Attachment
#7), and supports the conclusions based on the assumptions and technical analysis contained
therein. :


--- page 17 ---
City Council Administrative Report
Bay Meadows Phase IT SPAR #2 Page 5 of 10

Restroom in Neighborhood Park: The Parks and Recreation Commission and Department of
Parks and Recreation recommend that the Planning Commission approve the SPAR #2
application with a restroom as part of the Neighborhood Park. The plans for the Neighborhood
Park designate a central location for the restroom and condition of approval #99 would enable
the Director of Parks and Recreation to work with the applicant on the restroom as the City
evaluates the final plantings, furnishings, and other features of the Neighborhood Park.

Exits to Neighborhood Park; Following the August 26" workshop, the applicant and City staff
discussed various options to address the Planning Commission’s interest in incorporating
individual exits for the RES 4 ground floor units adjacent to the Neighborhood Park. The City
and the applicant have agreed upon a solution that would allow the individual exits and address
the Parks and Recreation Department’s concerns regarding conformance with the General Plan
and the municipal code, and Police Department’s concerns regarding enforcement. An
agreement. was reached to enable the applicant to retain the “Garden Walk” (as shown on
Neighborhood Park plans) as private property with a dedication to the benefit of the City for the
purposes of public access. The agreement is further explained in the memorandum from the
Parks and Recreation Director (Attachment #4) and a condition of approval has been
incorporated regarding the dedication.

Planning Commission Findings: The findings for approval (Exhibit A) demonstrate that the
project is in general conformance with Bay Meadows II Design Guidelines and Development
Standards, the Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment, the San Mateo Rail Corridor TOD
Plan, and the City’s General Plan. The Design Guidelines and Development Standards stipulate
(p. I-3) that “the strongest level of design intent is specified by the use of terms such as “must,”
“shall” and “prohibited.” Preferred design items are designated as a condition which is
“encouraged,” “preferred,” “recommended,” “appropriate,” or as one that “should” be included.
Preferred design items are considered “voluntary” and need not be included in a proposed
project.” Additionally, the Design Guidelines and Development Standards state (p. I-5) that “a
proposed project may not be denied due to failure to comply with non-specific or voluntary
dimensions, such as an “encouraged” break-zone or a “recommended” area for open space.”
Deviations from the strongest level of design intent are described in Attachment #9 and
discussed below. , .

Conformance with the Design Guidelines and Development Standards: Since the first study
session, several items have been discussed regarding conformity with the Bay Meadows II

Design Guidelines and Development Standards. The applicant has addressed most of the items,
most notably through modifications to break up a larger building in RES 5 into two smaller
buildings, enhancing the corners to provide a distinguishable architectural feature or identifier,
through the addition of a trellis at important pedestrian entrances in RES 5 and RES 8, and
introducing a four-story tall component to building M in RES 9 to better relate to the station
block buildings across on the other side of Delaware Street:

The proposal includes various items that deviate from the Design Guidelines and Development
Standards. These items are discussed below.


--- page 18 ---
City Council Administrative Report

Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 Page 6 of 10
a. The required pedestrian easement in Block RES 4 is covered at a height lower than 15

feet. The pedestrian passage is covered by two arches, where the lowest point of the arch
is 10 feet above the passage way paving and where the covered portion of the
passageway is approximately 16 ft 7 inches for each arch. Overall the arches: 1. provide
sufficient vertical clearance (10 feet clearance at their lowest points) to accommodate
pedestrians, 2.) are well designed and consistent with the architectural style of the
building, and 3.) provide a minimally covered pedestrian walkway which allows visual
and physical connection from the Linear Park to the Neighborhood Park.

The Design Guidelines specify a Lower Height Zone along Derby (29" Avenue) and
Landing (30 Avenue) for Block RES 4. The Lower Height Zone is shown at a 100 feet
distance measured from the property line along Kyne Street and the Neighborhood Park,
which exceeds the maximum 90 foot distance from the property lines. The 10 foot
difference does not adversely affect the overall design of the building and addresses the
intent of creating a distinct vertical break in building height at the middle.

Buildings exceed the recommended maximum build-to width for RES 4 and 9b. In RES
4, the upper-story Build-To percentage of 86% (vs. recommended 80%) is a nominal
increase and addresses the intent of creating variety in massing and building form at the
upper floor level. In RES 9b, a higher upper-story Build-To percentage of 95% (vs.
recommended 70%) provides a stronger building presence on the east side of Delaware to
better relate to the 4-story building massing across the street (station parking garage in
STA 1).

The location and width of curb cuts differ from the Design Guideline in location and
exceed the recommended maximum widths. The proposed curb cuts consolidate
driveways instead of providing two or more separate driveways per block, would not
create a significant impediment to cyclists or pedestrians, and provide a better turning
radius for emergency vehicles including full size fire trucks.

In RES 8, the 20 foot Build-To requirement to “hold” the corners at the intersection Baze
Road and 31" Avenue is not met. Building B is setback approximately 48 feet from the
property line along Baze Road and approximately 30 feet from the property line along
31 Avenue. The proposed design utilizes a specimen tree to mark the corner. This
specimen tree in addition to the specimen tree at the eastern corner of the Block at 31*
Avenue holds and marks the corners of the RES 8 block and distinguishes it from other
blocks in the Bay Meadows Phase II development.

Encroachments into setbacks in RES 6, 8, 9b and 9A consist of parking in setback, wider
bay windows on 31" Avenue and Delaware Street, and landscape walls that are greater
than 36 inches along 31** Avenue and Delaware Street. These encroachments provide for
articulated building facades, define private landscape areas, and do not limit the amount
of landscape area.

Architectural features are appropriately located to provide a visual emphasis on buildings
with prominent locations that visible from a distance. Large specimen tree is recognized
as an acceptable feature for the southeastern corner of RES 8 in that it is balanced with
another large specimen tree on the southwestern corner of the block.

Not withstanding the deviations, staff finds that the project conforms to the Design Guidelines
with respect to land use, building heights, floor area ratio, setbacks, landscaping, parking and
circulation and building design and use of materials. The reduction in the clearance height of the


--- page 19 ---
City Council Administrative Report
Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 Page 7 of 10

covered pedestrian passageway does not detract from the overall] intent of providing an
accessible and obvious passageway form the Linear Park to the Neighborhood Park. The 3’-10”
tall gate will be removed through a condition of approval to further emphasis that the
passageway is available for public access. The difference in the “build-to” line and “lower
height zone” provides wall articulation while maintaining a street wall presence adjacent to
framework streets and provides variation in building height, which provides an overall pedestrian
benefit. The encroachments into setbacks help to provide additional parking, articulate building
facades, and define private landscape areas. The architectural features have been incorporated
into the design of buildings in RES 5 and RES 9b, and large specimen tree in RES 8 frames the
two southern corners of the block and is an acceptable distinguishing feature. For these reasons,
staff believes the variations from the Design Guidelines meet the goals, intent, and vision of the
Bay Meadows II Design Guidelines and Development Standards.

CEQA CLEARANCE

As lead agency, the City of San Mateo prepared a Final Environmental Impact Report (EIR) for
the San Mateo Rail Corridor Plan and the Bay. Meadows Specific Plan Amendment, in
compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (Public Resources Code,
section 21000 et seg.) and the State CEQA Guidelines (California Code of Regulations, Section
15000 et seg., as amended). The City Council certified the Final EIR for the San Mateo Rail
Corridor Plan and Bay Meadows Ii Specific Plan Amendment at a public hearing on April 18,
2005. The City Council approved the Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment, re-certified the
Final EIR for that project, and adopted the findings and statement of overriding considerations at
a public hearing on November 7, 2005. As noted at page 1-6 of the Final EIR, the analysis in the
Final EIR was at a “project” level of detail, which anticipated the potential impacts of future
discretionary approvals to implement the project. The Final EIR expressly states that applications
for subsequent Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) would not require preparation of
subsequent environmental documentation, unless otherwise required by CEQA Section 21166.
In its approval of BAY MEADOWS PHASE II SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL
REVIEW (“SPAR”) APPLICATION #1 (PA 07-054), the City Council approved an Addendum
to the Final EIR, concluding that none of the criterion in CEQA Section 21166 or CEQA
Guidelines Section 15162 have been met that would require preparation of a subsequent or
supplemental EIR and that an Addendum was appropriate.

Section 21166 stipulates that when an environmental impact report has been prepared for a
project pursuant to this division, no subsequent or supplemental environmental impact report
shall be required by the lead agency or by any responsible agency, unless one or more of the
following events occurs:

(a) Substantial changes are proposed in the project which will require major revisions of the
environmental impact report.

(b) Substantial changes occur with respect to the circumstances under which the project is
being undertaken which will require major revisions in the environmental impact report.

(c) New information, which was not known and could not have been known at the time the
environmental! impact report was certified as complete, becomes available.


--- page 20 ---
City Council Administrative Report
Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 Page 8 of 10

In reviewing the previously certified Final EIR and the Addendum to that Final EIR, and after
reviewing the facts and analyzing the circumstances of the project, the San Mateo City staff has
determined that there is no substantial evidence in the record revealing that there have been
substantial changes to the project or the circumstances under which the project is being
undertaken that would require major revisions in the environmental impact report, and that no
new information have become available which would require the preparation of a subsequent or
supplemental environmental impact report. A new EIR is not required, because none of the
circumstances described in CEQA Section 21166 as implemented by CEQA Guidelines Section
15162 present themselves. Staff has prepared the Findings of Approval to discuss the basis for
this determination (Exhibit A).

In the review of this application, the Planning Commission will be asked to exercise its
independent judgment and to find that the scope of PA 07-055 Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2,
is within the scope of the project considered in the Final EJR for the San Mateo Rail Corridor
Plan & Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment, certified by the San Mateo City Council on
April 18, 2005 together with the Addendum to that Final EIR approved by the City Council on
April 21, 2008, based on the Findings of Approval.

PUBLIC NOTICE :

The standard public notice area for all meetings on the Bay Meaodws II SPARs 1-3 planning
applications was expanded because of the significance of the project. The notice boundary area
included State Route. 92 to the north, Palm Drive (between SR 92 and 20" Avenue) and El
Camino Real (between 20" Avenue and Hillsdale Blvd) to the west, Hillsdale Boulevard (both
sides) to the south, and Highway 101 to the east. The entire neighborhoods of Fiesta Gardens and
Bay Meadows I were included. The public notice area included approximately 2,360 property
owners and occupants. Additionally, approximately 230 persons were on the project’s interested
parties list.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends approval of the Site Plan and Architectural Review for the project because:

e The development substantially conforms with Bay Meadows II Design Guidelines and
Development Standards, the Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment, the San
Mateo Rail Corridor TOD Plan, and the City’s General Plan;

e The proposed variations to the Design Guidelines and Development Standards are.
minor and, in some cases, provide additional benefits to the neighborhood;

e The proposed buildings and landscaping provide a substantial level of design, as
shown on the plans and as provided through the conditions of approval; and

e The provision of a restroom in the Neighborhood Park, as part of this development,
will be beneficial to future residents as well as other visitors to the park.

And that the Planning Commission declare and find that the scope of PA 07-055 Bay Meadows
Phase II SPAR #2, is within the scope of the project considered in the Final EIR for the ‘San
Mateo Rail Corridor Plan & Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment, certified by the’ San
Mateo City Council on April 18,-2005 together with the Addendum to that Final EIR approved
by the City Council on April 21, 2008, based on the Findings of Approval (Exhibit A). :


--- page 21 ---
City Council Administrative Report

Bay Meadows Phase Il SPAR #2 Page 9 of 10
EXHIBITS ©

A. Findings for Approval
‘B. Conditions of Approval

ATTACHMENTS
The following attachments are distributed as part of the AR:

1. Bay Meadows Phase II Vicinity Map & Program by Block

2. Previous Planning Commission Workshop Minutes

3. Parks & Recreation Commission Minutes & AR (July 2008)

4. Memo From Parks and Recreation Director Regarding Neighborhood Park

5. Public Comments

6. Final Parking Management Plan (August 2008)

7. Affect of Tandem Parking on On-Street Parking Availability (September 2008)
8. Design Review Letter (August 2008)

9. List of Design Guidelines & Development Standards Deviations and Explanations

10. Applicant’s Response to Items Raised at the 8/26/08 Planning Commission Workshop

The following Technical Attachments available in a binder in the City Clerk’s Office for the City
Council to review:

11. Data Sheets

12. GreenPoint Information

13. Stormwater Information

14. Traffic Management Plan(March 2008)

15. Support Letter From Allied Waste Services & Planned Waste and Recycling Systems
(February 2008)

16. Noise Study

17. Demand Side Water Management Strategy (June 2007)

18. SPAR #2 Summary Booklet

19. Window Information

20. Bike Racks & Location Plan

21. Supplemental Drawings with Revisions to Project Plans.

22. Project Plans (August 12, 2008)

‘All attachments are available for public review in person at City Hall, the Main Library and
online at: .
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.asp?NID=101


--- page 22 ---
City Council Administrative Report

Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2

CC:

Page 10 of 10

City Manager

City Clerk

City Attorney

Finance Director

Community Development Director

Public Works Director

Park and Recreation Director

Chief of Planning

Stephen Scott, Principal Planner

Dennis Frank, City Landscape Architect
Susanna Chan, Deputy Public Works Director
Gary Heap, Senior Engineer

Chris Meany, Wilson Meany Sullivan
Genelle Ball, Wilson Meany Sullivan

Kim Havens, Wilson Meany Sullivan

Keith Orlesky, Wilson Meany Sullivan

Ian McAvoy, San Mateo County Transportation Authority


--- page 23 ---
RES6 at Bay Meadows (3069 E. Kyne Street) - Project Description & SPAR Modification Matrix 
Project Description: 
3069 E Kyne Street (PA-07-055 Bay Meadows II SPAR 2) was originally included in a multi-Block SPAR approved by the Planning Commission on 
October 14, 2008. The original SPAR covered several Blocks in the Specific Plan area and set the parameters for the various buildings to function 
well together.  The proposed modification concerns the last Block from the original SPAR.  The approved building consisted of a four-story, 54-
unit, multi-family residential building on a 47,425 square foot project site, approved for condo and/or rental use. The Applicant is requesting 
certain modifications to the approved SPAR Plans, including:  (i) a reduction in overall project square footage, (ii) an adjustment to the interior 
courtyard in both plan and elevation to accommodate the addition of resident amenities (iii) the addition of a secure, at-grade bike parking 
facility, (iv) installation of solar panels, (v) adjustments to balconies, and (vi) adjustments in building height that provide mechanical pathways, 
screen solar equipment, and provide for OSHA fall protection. 
*In June 2019, the Zoning Administrator for the City of San Mateo made a “substantial conformity” determination in accordance with the original SPAR 
conditions, allowing for a maximum building height to top plate of 45’ for the Project, and allowing for the other modifications listed in the matrix below 
(excluding solar).  The Applicant proceeded in reliance on this approval to submit for permit in December 2019, spending over $2 million dollars to develop 
construction drawings and advance the Project.  In June of 2020, City Planning Staff received direction from the City Attorney’s Office requesting that 
Applicant’s proposed plans be presented to the Planning Commission for formal approval, prior to issuing permits which were imminent.  A matrix summarizing 
modifications made to the original SPAR Plans is attached for Planning Commission ease of reference.  Should the Planning Commission decide not to approve 
the modifications proposed in the current application, Applicant has reserved its rights, including the right to revert to the original approved SPAR.

--- page 24 ---
RES6 at Bay Meadows (3069 E. Kyne Street) - Project Description & SPAR Modification Matrix 
 
Proposed SPAR 
Modification 
Applicable Requirements 
Rationale 
Reviewed by Zoning 
Administrator (ZA) 
June 2019 
Building Floor Area 
Building Floor Area in 
Proposed Plans is reduced 
from 105,164 to 95,036 
square feet.   
 
Reduction achieved by 
removing floor area from 
interior courtyard side of 
building, allowing public 
facing facades to remain 
largely as per SPAR 
approvals. 
 
No minimum Building Floor 
Area stipulated in original 
SPAR. 
 
 
A reduction in average unit 
size and the addition of 
common area amenities 
are required to achieve an 
economically feasible and 
marketable project.  
       
 
Unit Mix 
• 
Proposed Plans:  
(5) 1-BD Units  
(23) 2-BD Units  
(26) 3-BD Units  
 
• 
TOTAL = 54 Units 
• 
SPAR Plans:  
(0) 1-BD Units,  
(21) 2-BD Units,  
(33) 3-BD Units.  
 
• 
TOTAL = 54 Units 
 
 
Project to be marketed as 
“rental” instead of “for 
sale”, necessitating greater 
diversity in unit mix.   
 
Several individual units 
were increased or 
decreased in size, as plans 
were advanced from 
Schematic Design to 
Construction Drawing 
phase. 
 
       
 
Courtyard Facing 
Elevations 
Addition of courtyard facing 
amenities, such as a fitness 
center and communal 
lounge, modestly impacted 
courtyard elevations. 
N/A 
Addition of amenities 
required to achieve a 
marketable project.

--- page 25 ---
RES6 at Bay Meadows (3069 E. Kyne Street) - Project Description & SPAR Modification Matrix 
Parking Stalls - 
Quantity 
Proposed Plans require 103 
parking stalls (based on 
ratios approved in PMP), 
but 106 stalls are provided.   
 
The Proposed Plans provide 
(3) parking stalls in excess of 
requirements. 
SPAR Plans required 108 
parking stalls (based on ratios 
approved in PMP), but 111 
stalls were provided.    
 
The SPAR Plans provided (3) 
parking stalls in excess of 
requirements. 
 
Change in unit mix (i.e. 
shifting to smaller units 
with fewer bedrooms) 
results in fewer parking 
stalls required.   
 
Proposed Plans are 
consistent with approved 
PMP.   
 
       
 
(Approved by ZA with 
request for formal 
documentation from 
Kimley Horn related 
to PMP, as 
subsequently 
provided.) 
Parking Stalls -  
Type 
Adjustment in mix of 
parking stalls. 
• 
Proposed Plans:  
(36) Standard 
(25) Standard Tandem 
(0) Compact Tandem 
(41) Compact 
(2) Accessible 
(2) Accessible Van  
• 
SPAR Plans:  
(55) Standard 
(13) Standard Tandem 
(18) Compact Tandem 
(22) Compact 
(2) Accessible 
(1) Accessible Van 
Parking mix in Proposed Plans 
meets all City of San Mateo 
requirements. 
Reduction in garage 
footprint and shift in 
driveway location 
necessitated new parking 
layout.   
New layout benefits project 
by: (i) increasing the 
number of accessible stalls 
and (ii) decreasing the 
number of tandem stalls.  
 
The number of compact 
stalls (tandem and non-
tandem, combined), 
however, is increased by 1 
stall. 
   
     
 
 
Encroachment into 
Setback 
Proposed Plans reduce the 
footprint of the below-grade 
parking garage, removing it 
from a setback along 
Landing Avenue. 
SPAR Plans allowed a large 
encroachment into the 
setback.   
With new unit mix, fewer 
parking stalls are required 
and thus the garage can be 
reduced in size.     
 
Improves project 
conformance to City

--- page 26 ---
RES6 at Bay Meadows (3069 E. Kyne Street) - Project Description & SPAR Modification Matrix 
municipal codes and 
requirements and Bay 
Meadows Design 
Guidelines. 
 
Parking Entrance 
Garage entry in Proposed 
Plans is moved north by the 
width of itself.   
Proposed driveway location 
meets all City of San Mateo 
Public Works requirements.  
 
 
Facilitated a better parking 
layout, an enlarged 
amenity area on ground 
floor, and the inclusion of a 
bike room at grade, all 
without setback 
encroachment.  
 
      
  
Loading Zone 
Existing Baze Rd. loading 
zone is relocated in a 
southerly direction but still 
remains on Baze Rd on the 
property frontage. 
New loading zone location 
meets City of San Mateo 
requirement that loading 
zones be at least 50’ from 
intersection. 
New location works well 
with new RES6 driveway 
location and meets 
Recology and City of San 
Mateo requirements. 
 
    
 
Bike Storage 
Proposed Plans (i) enlarge 
the secure bike parking 
room in the garage and (ii) 
add an additional secure at-
grade bike parking room on 
the ground floor, with direct 
access to the PROW.   
 
The Proposed Plans provide 
80 long-term secure bike 
parking spaces, whereas 
only 73 spaces are required 
per current municipal code. 
 
SPAR plans provided limited 
secure bike parking (22 racks) 
in the below grade garage, 
and thus the COAs indicated 
adding a ring or heavy cable in 
front of parked cars if this did 
not cause parking to conflict 
with City code.   
 
 
Adding an additional bike 
parking facility at grade is 
very convenient for 
residents who bike 
regularly.   
 
Enlarging the below grade 
secure bike parking room 
(instead of installing rings 
or cables in front of cars) 
enhances security, averts 
personal property damage, 
and helps achieve a smaller 
garage footprint.

--- page 27 ---
RES6 at Bay Meadows (3069 E. Kyne Street) - Project Description & SPAR Modification Matrix 
Townhome Balconies 
Balconies reduced from (2) 
to (1) per townhome.   All 
townhomes, in addition, 
retain a large patio at 
ground level facing the main 
courtyard.   
Balconies not specifically 
addressed in SPAR conditions 
of approval.   
Balconies in youth 
bedrooms are unsafe for 
rental use.   
 
       
 
Open Space 
PROPOSED PLANS 
• 
Private Open Space =  
4,384 SF 
• 
Common Open Space = 
8,538 SF 
• 
Total Open Space =  
12,922 SF 
 
SPAR PLANS 
• 
Private Open Space =  
5,376 SF 
• 
Common Open Space = 
6,495 SF 
• 
Total Open Space =  
11,871 SF 
 
Proposed Plans meet all Open 
Space requirements set forth 
in the Bay Meadows Specific 
Plan Amendment, Table IV-7.    
 
Street facing facades have 
been maintained, with 
reductions in private open 
space focused primarily in the 
courtyard.  
 
Private and Common Open 
spaces were modified in 
conjunction with revisions 
to the unit mix, adjustment 
of floorplans, and shift to a 
rental project.   
 
Larger common open space 
provides a more 
meaningful outdoor 
experience for tenants.    
 
     
 
(After ZA review, two 
smaller patios 
previously designated 
as “common open 
space” were instead 
designated as “private 
open space” 
protecting the privacy 
of two adjacent 
apartment homes.) 
Landscaping 
• 
Trellis added at 
courtyard to provide 
shade to outdoor dining 
and fire feature.   
• 
Plant palette modified 
to emphasize native / 
drought tolerant 
plantings with history of 
success at Bay 
Meadows.  
Modifications are consistent 
with Design Guidelines. 
Enhanced courtyard 
experience enhances 
project marketability and 
resident experience.   
 
Plant palette now 
emphasizes plantings with 
a demonstrated record of 
success at Bay Meadows, 
enhancing the sustainability 
of the project. 
 
     
 
(Trellis, fire feature 
and other courtyard 
improvements 
approved by ZA.) 
 
     
 
(Adjustments to 
planting palette were 
made subsequent to

--- page 28 ---
RES6 at Bay Meadows (3069 E. Kyne Street) - Project Description & SPAR Modification Matrix 
prior ZA approval, 
triggered by permit 
process which 
required water 
conservation forms.)  
 
Wooden Landscape 
Gates 
Landing Ave. side gates 
moved from deep within the 
courtyard, closer towards 
the courtyard perimeter, to 
allow more secure, common 
open space.  
 
Gates were present in SPAR 
floorplans but were not 
shown in SPAR elevations.   
Courtyard gates enhance 
resident security.   
     
 
Materials 
Proposed materials and 
colors are consistent with 
SPAR Plans.  However, there 
has been additional design 
development since the SPAR 
document. Whereas the 
SPAR Plans showed generic 
colors based on paint color 
codes, the current proposal 
shows actual 
materials/product colors.   
 
Proposed plans include 
VPI/Vinyl/Black as spec for 
both windows and doors. 
 
SPAR conditions of approval 
stipulate Zoning Administrator 
shall approve any window 
manufacturers/styles other 
than Milgard.   
 
VPI has been approved by the 
Zoning Administrator for RES6 
(Dec 2019), as well as for past 
projects at Bay Meadows 
including RES1 (completed 
2015) and RES4 (currently 
under construction). 
VPI window and door 
systems enable larger 
window sizes, and superior 
performance.  
     
 
Solar Panels 
Proposed Plans include 
solar.   
• 
Townhome roof 
would receive a 
standing seam 
SPAR Plans did not include 
solar.    
Solar installation is 
economically advantageous 
to the proposed project 
over the long term, is 
       
 
(Plans approved by 
prior ZA assumed a 
code minimum solar

--- page 29 ---
RES6 at Bay Meadows (3069 E. Kyne Street) - Project Description & SPAR Modification Matrix 
installation.  Due to 
roof pitch (towards 
the courtyard), the 
panels would be 
seen only by project 
residents from the 
courtyard.   
• 
Other project roofs 
would receive a 
ballasted or pipe 
installation, hidden 
from street and 
resident view by 
parapet walls.   
 
“earth friendly”, and is a 
code requirement.   
installation of ~3kwh 
behind parapet walls.   
 
Current proposed 
plans incorporate a 
much larger solar 
array and include 
installation on a roof 
without parapet.) 
Building Height to 
Top Plate 
Building height to top plate 
is increased by 
approximately two feet, but 
project remains far below 
the maximum height 
allowed for the Project 
Area. 
• 
SPAR = 41’-3 5/8”  
• 
Proposed = 43’-3 
5/8”  
 
Bay Meadows maximum 
height to top plate is 55’.  
Changes in height were 
made to accommodate 
mechanical, electrical, 
plumbing, roof drainage, 
and fall protection 
considerations.   
       
 
(Prior ZA approved 
max building height to 
top plate of 45’.)   
Maximum Parapet 
Height 
Proposed Plans increase the 
general Maximum Parapet 
Height from 46’-3 5/8” to 
47’-7 5/8”, with occasional 
architectural features 
extending to 50’-7 5/8” to 
match the skyline 
Proposed heights are well 
within limits allowed by City of 
San Mateo and the Bay 
Meadows Specific Plan. 
Parapet height increased to 
provide fall protection for 
workers on roof in 
accordance with OSHA 
guidelines. 
 
Increased parapet height 
helps mask solar 
       
 
(Prior ZA approved 
max building height to 
top plate of 45’, with 
parapet above.)

--- page 30 ---
RES6 at Bay Meadows (3069 E. Kyne Street) - Project Description & SPAR Modification Matrix 
 
 
articulation shown in 
original SPAR Plans. 
installation and rooftop 
mechanical from street 
view.

--- page 31 ---
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DATA FORM 
NAME: Bay Meadows 
 RES 6 – SPAR 
Modification 
PA: 2020-033 
ADDRESS: 
3069 Kyne Street 
LOT SIZE:  
47,425 SF (1.09 ac) 
ZONING:  
BM-SP 
APN:  
040-030-190 
FLOOR AREA 
Residential: 
Underground Garage: 
 
 
TOTAL CREDITABLE 
FLOOR AREA: 
APPROVED 
105,164 SF 
41,756 SF (not 
counted as creditable 
floor area) 
 
105,164 SF 
PROPOSED 
95,036 SF 
40,540 SF (not 
counted as creditable 
floor area) 
 
95,036 SF 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED 
 
 
 
 
 
142,275 SF 
F.A.R.: 
2.22 FAR 
2.00 FAR 
3.0 FAR 
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY: 
50 units/ac 
50 units/ac 
50 units/ac 
UNITS: 
54 
54 
54 (per SPA based on 
1.09 ac block size) 
STORIES: 
3 – 4 
3 – 4 
(no specific number 
within max. height 
limit) 
BLDG. HEIGHT: 
41 feet, 3 5/8 inches1 
44 feet, 4 3/4 inches2 
55 feet3 
MAX. PARAPET HEIGHT: 
46 feet 6 inches 
51 feet 8 3/4 inches 
None 
UNIT TYPE 
1-Bedroom: 
2-Bedroom: 
3-Bedroom+: 
TOTAL: 
APPROVED  
0 
21 
33 
54 
 
PROPOSED  
5 
23 
26 
54 
MINIMUM SIZE4 
540 SF 
750 SF 
960 SF 
 
 
SETBACKS: 
Front (Kyne Street): 
N. Side (Landing Ave.): 
S. Side (View Corridor): 
Rear (Baze Road):        
APPROVED 
10 feet 
10 feet 
0 
10 feet 
PROPOSED 
10 feet 
10 feet 
0 feet 
10 feet 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
10 feet 
10 feet 
0 feet 
10 feet 
PARKING: 
Standard Resident: 
Standard Tandem: 
Compact Resident: 
Compact Tandem: 
Accessible Resident: 
Accessible Van: 
 
TOTAL PARKING: 
APPROVED 
55 
13 
22 
18 
2 
1 
 
111 (Avg. 2.05/unit) 
PROPOSED 
36 
25 
41 
0 
2 
2 
 
106 (Avg. 1.96/unit) 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
 
 
(See Parking 
Management Plan) 
 
 
Not to exceed          
1.75 – 2.25/unit 
COVERED PARKING: 
111 
106 
- 
LOADING SPACES: 
Two on-street, 
loading zone (7am-
5pm on Kyne Street 
and Baze Road) 
Two on-street, 
loading zone (7 am-6 
pm on Kyne Street 
and Baze Road) 
One 10 ft x 25 ft 
loading space

--- page 32 ---
BICYCLE PARKING 
Short-term 
1-Bedroom: 5 
2-Bedroom: 23 
3-Bedroom: 26 
TOTAL (as rounded):  
 
Long-term 
1-Bedroom: 5 
2-Bedroom: 23 
3-Bedroom: 26 
TOTAL (as rounded): 
APPROVED 
 
 
 
 
[432 sq. ft. of 
bicycle storage 
space]  
PROPOSED 
 
 
 
 
6 spaces  
 
 
 
 
 
80 spaces 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
Short-term 
0.05/unit = 0.25 
0.10/unit = 2.3 
0.15/unit = 3.9 
6.45 (6) 
 
Long-term 
1.00/unit = 5.0 
1.25/unit = 28.75 
1.50/unit = 39.0 
72.75 (73) 
OPEN SPACE 
Common: 
     Private: 
TOTAL OPEN SPACE: 
APPROVED 
6,495 SF 
5,376 SF 
11,871 SF 
PROPOSED 
8,538 SF 
4,384 SF 
12,922 SF 
MIMIMUM REQUIRED5 
6,480 SF 
4,320 SF 
10,800 SF 
LOT COVERAGE: 
APPROVED 
56% (27,051 SF) 
PROPOSED 
52% (24,896 SF) 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED6 
70%  
 
FOOTNOTES: 
1. Building height shown was used an average grade plane elevation as the basis for 
determining building height under SPAR #2 (PA-2007-055). 
2. Building height as defined in SMMC Section 27.04.080. 
3. Maximum building height (as measured to top plate) is permitted to up 55 feet. However, 
any proposed building in excess of 45 feet requires the project meet Measure P findings 
outlined in Land Use Policy 1.5 of the City’s General Plan. 
4. Bay Meadows Phase II multi-family development defers to R6-D dwelling standards; 
minimum size requirements for units with kitchens shown. 
5. Per the approved Specific Plan Amendment Development Framework Plan, open space 
requirements can be satisfied via the provision of 80 SF/unit of private space; providing 
common usable space at the rate of 150 percent of the private open space requirement; or a 
proportional combination of both. 
6. Maximum of 70% of the Block area; all courtyards over subterranean parking may be 
considered open space.

--- page 33 ---
Page 1
kimley-horn.com
4637 Chabot Dr., Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-398-4840
MEMORANDUM
To:
Ms. Brandy Bridges
Wilson Meany
From:
Ben Huie, P.E.
Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.
Date:
August 26, 2020
Subject: 
Updated Bay Meadows RES 6 Parking Requirements
Wilson Meany has submitted a revised project for RES 6 that modifies the unit mix of the site, as well
as the proposed number of parking spaces.  Kimley-Horn has been asked to confirm that these
changes are still consistent with the Parking Management Plan (PMP) for the Bay Meadows II project.
This memorandum evaluates and summarizes the consistency of the revised RES 6 project to the
parking requirements in the PMP.
RES 6 Project Description
RES 6 is located on the southeast corner of the intersection of Landing Avenue and Baze Road.  This
latest project proposal describes the project as having the following number of units based on
bedroom count:
· 
1-Bedroom Unit: 5 dwelling units
· 
2-Bedroom Unit (less than 1,400 square feet): 23 dwelling units
· 
2-Bedroom Unit (greater than 1,400 square feet): 0 dwelling units
· 
3-Bedroom Unit: 26 dwelling units
The prior RES 6 project description as approved in the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR)
had the same total number of units, but with a different unit mix:
· 
1-Bedroom Unit: 0 dwelling units
· 
2-Bedroom Unit (less than 1,400 square feet): 11 dwelling units
· 
2-Bedroom Unit (greater than 1,400 square feet): 10 dwelling units
· 
3-Bedroom Unit: 33 dwelling units
Parking Management Plan
The PMP is a document that addresses parking for the buildout of the Bay Meadows Phase II project.
The purpose of the PMP is to identify the planned parking supply for each development block and
show its conformance to the parking standards in the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan
Amendment (SPA) and the standards approved in the SPAR for individual buildings.  The PMP also
estimates weekday parking demand and identifies parking demand strategies.

--- page 34 ---
Page 2
kimley-horn.com
4637 Chabot Dr., Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-398-4840
RESIDENTIAL BLOCK PARKING REQUIREMENTS
The latest PMP, submitted to the City and dated August 24, 2018, defined the parking requirements
for residential uses in Table 4 – Off-street Parking Requirements.  For apartments, condos, lofts, and
townhouses/rowhouses, the following parking spaces are required based on the number of bedrooms
in each unit:
· 
1-Bedroom Unit: 1.45 – 1.55 spaces per dwelling unit
· 
2-Bedroom Unit: 1.80 – 2.05 spaces per dwelling unit
· 
3-Bedroom Unit: 2.0 – 2.05 spaces per dwelling unit
· 
4-Bedroom Unit: 2.0 – 2.05 spaces per dwelling unit
Guest parking spaces for each unit are not dependent on the bedroom count and should be provided
at 0.05 – 0.20 spaces per dwelling unit, with on-street parking being allowed.
However, the PMP, which is based on the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment, does
not mention the allowed number of tandem parking spaces or compact parking spaces.  The only
reference to the number of compact spaces allowed is in the San Mateo City Charter and Municipal
Code.  Section 27.64.265 of the City Code states:
Compact car stalls meeting all standards set forth in this chapter and in the Standard Drawings and
Specifications may be permitted as follows:
(1)   Where the number of required spaces is from 10 to 100, 30% of such spaces may be
provided pursuant to compact car standards.
(2)   Where the number of required spaces is more than 100, 40% of such spaces may be
provided pursuant to compact car standards.
When computations under this section result in a fractional allowance of more than 0.75 compact
spaces, one (1) additional such space may be provided.
Since the proposed project required to provide more than 100 parking spaces, then 40 percent of
them are allowed to be compact car spaces.
PREVIOUS RES 6 REQUIRED AND PROPOSED PARKING
RES 6 Block
Table 8 – Parking Requirements for Residential Blocks in the latest PMP showed the parking required
for the previous RES 6 project.  Using the upper limits for each of the bedroom counts, except for the
2-Bedroom (less than 1,400 square feet) units which used the lower limit of the range, the previous
RES 6 project required 108 parking spaces for residents and 11 parking spaces for guests.
The previous RES 6 project proposed 111 parking spaces for residents and 11 on-street parking
spaces for guests.  Therefore, when reviewing the parking for RES 6 only, the previous RES 6 project
was compliant with the required parking.  The previous project provided an excess of 3 resident

--- page 35 ---
Page 3
kimley-horn.com
4637 Chabot Dr., Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-398-4840
parking spaces.  It should be noted that of the 111 proposed on-site parking spaces, 22 of the parking
spaces were compact spaces and 18 of the parking spaces were compact – tandem spaces.
Residential Blocks
Overall, the residential blocks were providing a total of 1,634 on-site resident parking spaces
compared to a required 1,591 resident parking spaces, for an excess of 43 resident parking spaces.
The Plan also showed that 73 on-site guest parking spaces were being provided and 96 on-street
guest parking spaces were being provided for a total of 169 guest parking spaces.  Compared to the
required 169 guest parking spaces, the project was compliant with the guest parking space
requirement.
Bay Meadows II
The entirety of the Bay Meadows II project was providing a total of 5,322 parking spaces compared to
a required 5,060 parking spaces, for an excess of 262 parking spaces.  This is shown in Table 10 –
Comparison of Required Parking with Total Provided Parking by Block District of the latest PMP.
PROPOSED RES 6 REQUIRED AND PROPOSED PARKING
RES 6 Block
Using the same parking requirements as shown in Table 8 – Parking Requirements for Residential
Blocks in the latest PMP, the proposed RES 6 project would require 103 resident parking spaces and
11 guest parking spaces, as shown in Table 1 below.
Table 1 – Proposed RES 6 Parking Required
Bedroom Count
Total
Units by
Bedroom
Count
Resident Spaces
Guest Spaces
Parking Ratio
Parking Spaces
Required
Parking Ratio
Parking Spaces
Required
1-Bedroom Unit
5
1.55 spaces
per unit
8
0.20 spaces
per unit
1
2-Bedroom Unit
(Less than 1,400 sf)
23
1.80 spaces
per unit
42
0.20 spaces
per unit
5
2-Bedroom Unit
(More than 1,400 sf)
0
2.05 spaces
per unit
0
0.20 spaces
per unit
0
3-Bedroom Unit
26
2.05 spaces
per unit
53
0.20 spaces
per unit
5
Total
54
103
11
The proposed RES 6 project is planning on providing 106 parking spaces for residents and 11 on-
street parking spaces for guests.  Therefore, when reviewing the parking for RES 6 only, the
proposed RES 6 project is compliant with the required parking.  The project is providing an excess of

--- page 36 ---
Page 4
kimley-horn.com
4637 Chabot Dr., Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588
925-398-4840
3 resident parking spaces.  It should be noted that of the 106 proposed on-site parking spaces, 41 of
the parking spaces would be compact spaces and 0 of the parking spaces would be compact –
tandem spaces.  The 41 proposed compact spaces meets the allowed 40 percent compact spaces
(40 percent x 103 required on-site parking spaces = 41 compact spaces allowed).
Residential Blocks
Overall, the residential blocks are now providing a total of 1,629 on-site resident parking spaces
compared to a required 1,586 resident parking spaces, for an excess of 43 resident parking spaces.
The Plan also showed that 73 on-site guest parking spaces were being provided and 96 on-street
guest parking spaces were being provided for a total of 169 guest parking spaces.  Compared to the
required 169 guest parking spaces, the project was compliant with the guest parking space
requirement.
Bay Meadows II
The entirety of the Bay Meadows II project is now providing a total of 5,317 parking spaces compared
to a required 5,055 parking spaces, for an excess of 262 parking spaces.
CONCLUSIONS
The proposed RES 6 project is updating its unit mix compared to the previous submittal in the PMP.
This has resulted in a lower number of parking spaces required for RES 6 (103 parking spaces
required compared to the 108 parking spaces required previously).  This updated plan for RES 6 is
also proposing 5 fewer resident parking spaces (106 resident parking spaces provide compared to
the 111 resident parking spaces provided previously).  The project is proposing the same number of
guest parking spaces on-street.  Based on the required number of parking spaces and the proposed
number of parking spaces, the updated RES 6 project is still providing an excess of 3 resident parking
spaces and complies with the guest parking spaces, as shown in Table 2.  In addition, when
evaluating the parking for all residential blocks and for the entirety of the Bay Meadows II plan, each
shows ample parking provided compared to the amount of required parking.  Therefore, the updated
RES 6 project is still compliant with the PMP.
Table 2 – RES 6 Required Parking vs. Proposed Parking
Project Version
Resident Spaces
Guest Spaces
Required
Proposed
Difference
Required
Proposed
Difference
Previous RES 6
108
111
+3
11
11
0
Proposed RES 6
103
106
+3
11
11
0

--- page 37 ---
EDMONDS + LEE ARCHITECTS
BAY MEADOWS RES 6
SPAR COMPARISON
SEPT 10, 2020

--- page 38 ---
SPAR
1
	

	
		
	
	


	



	




 !"#
$%&'()*+*,%-&-.(/%,'
01)+-2%3(34


 5
#

 6	
	
0	
4



 
 1"
 
 #
 
"
"
"
"
D
!


"
!""

--- page 39 ---



 
  
 	 



	
	

	

	



		
				
	



	















	


	







	



 !
	"
	
	# $ !$%&
	'
()	'
	'
)#
*'
*'
'
	'
"'
!$%%$  +'!',+"
%-./-
	
 %+#
 $0$  
12

0+	#			
"	3+
(#
%
	



"	*
(	 	0

 %045674158798:$
47"4;78;7
 %04567487458:$
47"4;78;7
 %045674	5<<458
 %045674"<247<458
 %045674(51;=798
 %045674	79>8:$47
"4;78;7
 %0456748:$47
"4;78;7
 %045674715879
478488?7@:$47
"4;78;7
4>"48:A<6<(547?"(@
4>"48:A<6<(547
;78;7?(@
4>"48:(24(547
478<2<145B:?(@


C%0%
#%
 ! 
!,;A2 
<7891
 "!# C%0+#

$% 
$
! %3,A6
;4D#5AE18
& 978
4<<;;844;7;1;6 
7<26476455A21
'#&
#(
"784> 84>'&'4; &'A;
4184>'+'4;# ,'A;#
1784>478>=B8
584>'% 'A; 'A;
F*G=A6;88179
22175>#

))*+
%,
((		H"	'
	' %-./-

((	""
/
 /
/
!/
/
 /
/
!/
""?0$ &@
	'%-./

-))--.
--
))

	


	'
%#+	
 &3,%
,0I
?&3 ,@
?&I*	@




	'
		
		
( !3	%
	'
,$	
"J ,$	
( +3	
'
$
 #  
( +3	
"J(		'
,,"JF
% 
,$!
(%%3	&
	

,*,))

	

	"	
%3&,0
%3&,0


 &3,%

 &3,%
	
 +3& 0
%3,&
 !300+

 +3!00
%3,&
 !3!+

 %3&0
!%
 30
,

%+3!&,
3&%%
%,3%0
	
%,3%0
		
&3 ,
	)
///
-)0,
		"	*(	("	"	(?$%%$@
1




	
	



%

%#,,
#
 
%%
%#!
%+#!
 K%3
%
 #,
 #,




 #,
0&#0,
)*
23
452678
-.




	


!#,/J%!/
,,

	"
!#,J%!/
%

"(
!/J%&/
  

"	"
!/J%&/
%!
		
+/J%!/
 
		
+/J%!/
%
)*

	
(		"	*(3
	0H	&'
"J""	.
,,3"		(
	L		,
))

	


	'
%#+	
 3!+0
, I
?&3 ,@
?&I*	@




	'
		
		
( !3	%
	'
,$	
"J ,$	
( +3	
'
$
 #
( +3	
"J(		'
,,"JF

 
,$!
(%%3	&
	

,*,))

	

	"	
3,
3,


 3!+0

 3!+0
	
 3!+!
%3
 
3!+!

 &3!,!
%3
 03!,!

 3  
!
 30
,
)*
97:3
39:97
52:9
	
+,3
0
		
&3 ,
	)
/
-)0,
		"	*(	("	"	(?$%%$@
1




	
	



%
,
%#,,
&#!
 
 
%#!
%#
 K%3

 #,
#


 0
 #,
,
#
)*
23
/2698
-.
"



	


!#,/J%!/

0

	"
!#,J%!/
 ,

"(
!/J%&/
%

"	"
!/J%&/

		
+/J%!/
 
		
+/J%!/
 
)*

)*
	
	
%

 
 %




)*
23
)*
	
	
%
,
 
 


 0
)*
23


!

--- page 40 ---
SPAR



	



	






	


1



























 


--- page 41 ---
PROPOSED
		

(
$7/,$
4
-)$
1,-+1' 
1,-+1$7/,$
*+$3$)-9)$
3
$7/,$3-+*<(''
(
,)=
,$' 
1,-+1$7/,$
*+$-
/$
,)
--,
,+-
3+$.$7/,$3-
+*<(''=<(''
(
3
.,3/3
$
+*.$,+$1

+4-,-)' 1$*,$4
$
,+-
,
-,
-(*0
4$-
)+*+4-,-),,-

+$
-1,
('
*+$4$++4-,-)'
(

/-,
$

4
,-

+$
-1;<
'
(

,-)=+,*
,,,' +-
+349,-)
$++34$/-,,-

+$
-1;<5 +4,+-'
(
,-$,+$*++$4
-
+-*,)/$
,+-
$/>+

-) 4$+,/
-)+
-+$/,-/
-,
.$,+$

,+-
-)'
(

$
' /-,
$
,3
/$*$+3
,-,*
+*.$,+$0
*

-+$$,+$1

-*$+3
-$,-+*3,,-)1

1-/-,'
(
7/
$
-4
-' $*$+

'(5 
'*+$7/
$
-4
-'
(	
-
$)/-,4
-' $*$+

'5 
'	*+$-
$)
/-,4
-'
(
,-$,+$1
 
$6,4
+-/-+0

+$,?+-

3,@ 
'(
$*,$$

$*,$$

(3,-*,$$

$*,$$

3+$-
	




+
*



,
*
+
$
-
,


,


-




$


,




5((
3+-
$+$
$-'(;;
	



 !"#$
%& %!
'(
(#)#$
A(	B%"C0,D'
>+-+@
$,,+-@
,/@


$,4,+-
E

@

@
$
1,-)@
4$+>@

"D 
@F/"!"FG%F%DB "F(	'(3%&"$"55 !H3%HIG%9
.'! 
;;((@@(43

93
+1
4
,,5 $
(	'9-$

-3
+0
	(

4-'((5(5((

(	'(
5
+$
*++$
4
-
(;;(	
((2
(;;(	
(2
(	;(;(	
((2
;;(	
(2
;;(	
(2;4$3,
(;(;((
4$3,$
(;	;((
4$3,$
	
	
	

 !
"#$
 
%&
"#$


'
'


'(
'


'(
'

('

'	
"#$()
*"#
+ 

%BKD 


DK


DK


 !


B8 !:


(
,		
,
4! %L3 %)!H%

BB 0<'('((@
-&3H 5*BH&HH"D% %!B%!
 "'''(2%L M % HBN!%LK!O"KD"
K!%L%!HH K"%LK!OLDH "0N %
D"H"" M%0"MHHNHD !DMDH
DM!"KD"8KD":DKNH%L
"KK%! L !'HDH %"L%! M
!P!BN!%L"KD""MHHN!%K
 % M!" &M%HBN!'

	*-	,,
	

 !
$
"
-.(./
"#$
%&
$
"
-#
"#$


'((
'(


'
'


'(
	'(

'
0
*-	,,
	

 !
1" 
"
-.(./
"#$
%&
1" 
"
-#
"#$


('(
('


('(
'


('
'	

'
,-		
,
DDH4!OD% "K! %L3 %
3DKH%0<'',94
$,-)
*
,,,

'
	*-
	

4$+,4


4

(
4

+

(4

$7/,$
4


C4

'00	
	

-3
+3/-,+<'('((5 

$)
,+-J(2+*4
$,-)'
Q(.(2J
$),-)
,+-R


$,4,+-
;(;(( 4$3,$

;	;(( 4$3,$

SSM%! !BDDH4!ODD%B%  " ! 
HH5 LHH" HH&;L!" !D !&%!O'
-

@ ;6J5(6

*++$4
-5 5 4
$,-)
$
%
-
,
*
2
E
.
/




	
$$&
$%&
$-&
-
-)($
0

%&
-&
,&
*&
2&
E&
.&
$(&
&
&
)-&
&
3&
)2&
&
$
-)(%
3



0
0

0
HG@
B
AA	:A
I

3
		70 

	
036	
 	3 
	6
0'
0	
 	3 
	6
0'
0	
3
		3			

036	
3
		

036	
,.	
/J
/J
	1
$%2 	
$%* 
	
$%, '
0

$

$
$$$ 	1
$$E 	
$$% 1	
$$- '	0
$$, 		

,

,
$$* 1		1
$$2  11
$($ 
	7	3.&"%+10
	F&3	



0'

00!



































































































%/&"2+
%E&"(+
$2&"(+

	
$(&"(+
%,&"(+
$,&"(+
%-&"(+
$E&"2+
%*&"(+
%-&"E-8.+
$,&"(+
-(&"(+
$.&"(+
2+
1'0
%%&"(+
2+
$(&"(+

$E&
*&
%2)*&
%&
%2)*&
*&
%,&
-)*&
%,&
$E&
%%)E$&
%,&

.&"(+

$.&

$.&

.)*&

$.&
*),&

$.&

.)*&
$.J
-$&"/+
%E&"2+
%E&"2+
%E&"2+
%E&"2+
%E&"2+
%E&"2+
$.&"2+
.&",+
%.&"2+
%.&"2+
%.&"2+
$2&"(+
%.&"2+
%.&"2+
%.&"2+
$2/&"/+

	
$(&"(+
%%-&"E+

	
$(&"(+
2,&"2$8.+
$-*&"$(-8.+
*&"/$8.+

	
$(&"(+
$,&"2+
%(&"(+
%$&"(+
%.&"(+
		
*&"(+
%E&"2+
$$. 	
	

00

	
 	1
,&"%+ *&"$(-8.+
$(&".+
-2&"2+
*&"(+
*&"(+
.&".-8,+
E&"(+

$.&

$.&

.)*&

.)*&

$.&
.)*&
$(&
$(&
$.&
-&
.)*&
$(&
$(&
$(&
.)*&
%(&
$(&
%2)*&

.)*&
	
0
$(&
.&
$(&
.&
$(&
$(&

$.&

--- page 42 ---
SPAR

	



	

	

	



	



























	
	






	



	

	
	
	





1










--- page 43 ---
PROPOSED
		

	


 



	

 


 

	!"		#
!
  
 
$

%"&

"

		
#
 

		!"'( 


)
 
 

%
 
 $



&

 
	%( 		&

*
 
		( 	*

	
	 	+
$
		
,- ##
	

!
!
/

	

































(!&


&	
	



 !"#$
%& %!
'(
(#)#$
A	*1B<01:C55$0D
)-
-
-


E
-
-
-
)-
:2012D'851
-F:59:FG<5F<D6B508:F	*"'75'1<=:5:((5089'HI<15HIG<5 948
#"-!-	

( 
!*/
$*""!
"(!	("

	*"
	(


	"	*
	>
%	*
#>
*	*
	>
			#	*
#>
		!	*
&>
!
	
	
	
	

 !"#
 $

%
!&'&(
%)! $
*+
 $

%
!)
%)! $
	
#
	
#

!
	#
&&
!

	#
!*
#"
%&
,

	
	

 !"#
-%"

%
!&'&(
%)! $
*+
-%"

%
!)
%)! $
	
#
#
!

!
	
!
!

	#
!*
#"
#
JJK<9859B2D7DH5'9L203'DD<B<1'851'8:89558
H545H( M6HH720:8'HH51=20M9':896D8695=<9L
./.		

2D7DH5'9L203D<608:N59287<M'0'85<
602D2N'H<15$%"/

	
"&
	
!

&


%!

C#
	

	


,
	
01	

 
	
(


!

"

#



%

&
/  
*

	
$	#>

		
?@
	

	!

	"
 
	#
$!L(
	




	%

	&
/ /
 

	*

%$$#	
	*
$
$#	

(
%	#
	
	/

)	/
!
"(


! 	
	

- !!+O	.(+

	


 















 


 




 






 












 



 












	













	




	



















	
	
	

	

	




	

	







	




 
	
!
	


	


	


		




	

		






!"
	
# 
	
"
$%&'%()*%+*
!,%*-..**-$/-
$0*1$&
2'*31..'&1.
 
	
""



	
 
	
 4





	
	


"





 





"
5
 "!


	67

67
	67
	67
	67
	67
	67
	67
67
6	7
67

67
67
67
!
67
67
	67
67
	
67
67
	67
	
6
7
	67
	67
	67
67
	67
	67
	67
	67
	67
67
!
67
	67
	67
	67

89 
	

89!!
89!!
8 9!!
89
"2#
 
 "
89
"2#
 
  
  
:
  
:

--- page 44 ---
SPAR

	



	

1




	





--- page 45 ---
PROPOSED
		

	


 



	

 


 

	!"		#
!
  
 
$

%"&

"

		
#
 

		!"'( 


)
 
 

%
 
 $



&

 
	%( 		&

*
 
		( 	*

	
	 	+
$
		
,- ##
	

!
!
/

	

































(!&


&	
	



 !"#$
%& %!
'(
(#)#$
)-
-
-


9
-
-
-
)-
5:41:8';71
!-	-	

( 
!*/
$*""!
"(!	("

	*"
(


	"	*
	E
%	*
#E
*	*
	E
			#	*
#E
		!	*
&E
!
	

	
	

 
	
(


!

"

#



%

&
/  
*

	
$	#E
$
		
GH
	

	!

	"
 
	#
$!I(
	




	%

	&
/ /
 

	*

%$$#	
	*
$
$#	

(
%	#
	
	/

)	/
!
"(


! 	
	

- !!+F	.(+


1
) 4
4
1;
1
) 4
4
1;
1;
1
) 4
4
1;
1
4
)
4
4
1;
1 4
)
4
4
1;
1
4
) 4
4
1;
1;
1 4
4
)
1
)
4
1;
1;
1;
1;
1
4
) 4
4
1;
1
)
4
4
1;
1
1;
) 4 4
1;
1 4
)
4








	














































































	










$,)


,
$
$
)

,)),)

1)
$

)
$
$
$
)






	

$
$
)
$
$
)

$
5;6
56
5;6
5;6
5;6
5;6
5;6
5;6
5;6
56
56
56
56
56
56
5	6
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
5 ;6
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
5 ;6
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
	56
56
56
$
"
56

 3
56
4),4)9-
56
,4-,
,1
,4-,
,1
,4-,
,1




 6
 
 6
  ;6
  ;6
  ;6
;6

 
 
  ;
  ;
  ;
 ;


 






 
 

	









 


  


--- page 46 ---
SPAR

	



	

1




	






--- page 47 ---
PROPOSED
		

	


 



	

 


 

	!"		#
!
  
 
$

%"&

"

		
#
 

		!"'( 


)
 
 

%
 
 $



&

 
	%( 		&

*
 
		( 	*

	
	 	+
$
		
,- ##
	

!
!
/

	

































(!&


&	
	



 !"#$
%& %!
'(
(#)#$
)-
-
-


9
-
-
-
)-
5:41:8';71
"-"!-!!

( 
!*/
$*""!
"(!	("

	*"
!(


	"	*
	E
%	*
#E
*	*
	E
			#	*
#E
		!	*
&E
!
	

	
	

 
	
(


!

"

#



%

&
/  
*

	
$	#E
$
		
GH
	

	!

	"
 
	#
$!I(
	




	%

	&
/ /
 

	*

%$$#	
	*
$
$#	

(
%	#
	
	/

)	/
!
"(


! 	
	

- !!+F	.(+


) 4
4
1
1;
1
) 4
4
1;
1 4
1
4
1
) 4
4
1;
1
)
4
4
1;
1
4
) 4
4
1;
1
) 4
4
1;
1
4
) 4
4
1;
1
)
4
1;
1
)
4
4
1;
)
4
4
1;
)
4
4
1;
1
)
4
4
1;
1;
1 4
4
)
1;
1 4
)
4
1
) 4 4
1;








	














































































	


















,)),)
$
$
)

1)
$
$
$
)

$

)
$

,/-

,






	

56
5	6
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
5 ;6
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
$
"
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
5 ;6
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
	56
56
56
$
"
56

 3
4),4)9-
56
56
6





 




	











 


  


--- page 48 ---
SPAR

	



	





	



	



1




	






--- page 49 ---
PROPOSED
		

	


 



	

 


 

	!"		#
!
  
 
$

%"&

"

		
#
 

		!"'( 


)
 
 

%
 
 $



&

 
	%( 		&

*
 
		( 	*

	
	 	+
$
		
,- ##
	

!
!
/

	

































(!&


&	
	



 !"#$
%& %!
'(
(#)#$
)-
-
-


9
-
-
-
)-
5:41:8';71
"-#%-	!

( 
!*/
$*""!
"(!	("

	*"
"(


	"	*
	E
%	*
#E
*	*
	E
			#	*
#E
		!	*
&E
!
	

	
	

 
	
(


!

"

#



%

&
/  
*

	
$	#E
$
		
GH
	

	!

	"
 
	#
$!I(
	




	%

	&
/ /
 

	*

%$$#	
	*
$
$#	

(
%	#
	
	/

)	/
!
"(


! 	
	

- !!+F	.(+

"
1;
1;
1;
1
) 4
4
1
)
4
4
1
) 4
4
1
) 4
4
1;
1
) 4 4
1;
1
4
) 4
4
1;
1
)
4
4
1;
) 4
4
1
1;
1;
1 4
4
)
1
)
4
1;
1
4
) 4
4
1;
1
)
4
4
1;
1;
1 4
)
4








	



























































































,

1)
$

1,))



$

)
$
$
$
)
$
$
)
$
$
)
$
$
)

,)),)
56
5	6
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
5 ;6
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
$
"
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
5 ;6
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
	56
56
56
$
"
56
4),4)9-
56
6





 



	











 


  


--- page 50 ---
SPAR

	



	



	




	







	


	


	






 

 
!


 !

!
"



 !

!



 !
!

 !
"




#$	


 
!
"


!


"

!!


 
! 


"


!
!% 







!






&!
!!
"

!!
	
1


$

'


	
(
$

--- page 51 ---
PROPOSED
		


	
		

	

 	
		
		

	
		
	
				

		 	
		
					
				
	
		 !		"
 
					

 		
	

	
	

			#		
		
	
		
				$!%	
		

!
	
				
	&		
"
			
 	
					
	&		 !'	( 	

			

		
)		
 	
	
		
	
		

		
	

$
 		
	
		
	
			#	
	
		
				
		
	
	
	

%
	
 		

	
$	( %			

*
		
 		


		( *			
	


			
 	+		
	#	



,	


- 
	""
			
			
 			
 			

.	

	

































( %
	

	&%&
	



 !"#$
%& %!
'(
(#)#$
)	-


-


-



9
-

-
-
)-
5	:41:8';71
$&&	--" 	
	

		( 
	
 *		.	


	#		*!! 
	!( (!

*!

	
	
&!&*
E	

$&&*
"E	
*&&*
E	
&"&*
"E	
& &*
%E		&	
 &&
	
	
&*&
	
	
	


	



(	
		



	
 
	
!

"



			
$
	
%
.		
*
		

		#	"E			


				GH

	
 

	

!
	

"
	#	 >		(	
	


		

				

	
				
		
$
		
%
.		.		

					

*
				
	
		$#	
			
#	"
*
				
	#

			
#	"


	
	
		(
		$"

		
.	

)				
.
 
!(			
!
		

				
		

"
.	

GH	.	.#	
		/
$
		
	

#	
		/
%
GH		.	.#	
	
/
*

	
	
		

	
 
	/			

	






-  & +	F	/(+










	































































	







 















 







	





 !"










"
!##$
"!

"
!##$
"!

"
!##
$
"!

"
!##
$
"!

"
!##$
"!

"
!##$
"!

"
!##
$
"!

"
!##
$
"!

"
!##
$
"!

!

"!
"
!##$
"!













!
"
!
"
!
"

 
"

!






	









 

  


--- page 52 ---
SPAR
1




6&$/(
(1/$5*('6287+(/(9$7,21$79,(:&255,'25

 





6&$/(
(1/$5*('($67(/(9$7,21$7%$=(52$'

 

REV. 16 JULY, 2008
TOP OF PLATE
TOP OF PARAPET
155’-0”
160’-0”
GRADE PLANE
113’-8 ³⁄"”
LOWEST GRADE ELEVATION
112.6’ (112’-7¹⁄#”)
LOWEST GRADE ELEVATION
112.6’ (112’-7¹⁄#”)
41’-3 ⁵⁄"”
BUILDING HEIGHT PER APPROVED SPAR GRADE PLANE
42’- 4 ³⁄#”
47’- 4 ³⁄#”
BUILDING HEIGHT PER S.M. MUN. CODE 27.04.080
5’-0”
42’- 4 ³⁄#”
47’- 4 ³⁄#”
BUILDING HEIGHT PER S.M. MUN. CODE 27.04.080
41’-3 ⁵⁄"”
BUILDING HEIGHT PER APPROVED SPAR GRADE PLANE
5’-0”
TOP OF PLATE
GRADE PLANE
TOP OF PARAPET
155’-0”
113’-8 ³⁄"”
160’-0”

--- page 53 ---
PROPOSED
6&$/(
352-(&7
'$7(
-2%12
'5$:1
'5$:,1*
12
'$7(
68%0,66,21
%8,/',1*(/(9$7,216


$XWKRU
6'(/(:$5(675((7
6$10$7(2&$
$31
127)25
&216758&7,21
%$<0($'2:6
3+$6(,, 5(6

1R
'DWH
'HVFULSWLRQ
2.01
TOP OF PLATE
TOP OF PLATE
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE
E. PARAPET
E. PARAPET
157’-0”
157’-0”
164’-4”
164’-4”
161’-2”
161’-2”
LOWEST GRADE ELEVATION
112.6’ (112’-7¹⁄"”)
LOWEST GRADE ELEVATION
112.6’ (112’-7¹⁄"”)
GRADE PLANE
113’-8 ³⁄#”
GRADE PLANE
113’-8 ³⁄#”
43’-3 ⁵⁄#”
43’-3 ⁵⁄#” 
PROPOSED BUILDING HEIGHT PER APPROVED SPAR GRADE PLANE
PROPOSED BUILDING HEIGHT PER APPROVED SPAR GRADE PLANE
7’-4”
7’-4”
48’-6 ³⁄"”
51’-8 ³⁄"”
44’- 4 ³⁄"”
PROPOSED BUILDING HEIGHT PER S.M. MUN. CODE 27.04.080
48’-6 ³⁄"”
51’-8 ³⁄"”
44’- 4 ³⁄"”
PROPOSED BUILDING HEIGHT PER S.M. MUN. CODE 27.04.080

--- page 54 ---
SPAR
1




6&$/(
(1/$5*('1257+(/(9$7,21$77+$9(18(

 





6&$/(
(1/$5*('1257+(/(9$7,21$77+$9(18(&217

 

REV. 16 JULY, 2008
TOP OF PLATE
TOP OF PLATE
TOP OF PARAPET
TOP OF PARAPET
155’-0”
155’-0”
160’-0”
160’-0”
GRADE PLANE
113’-8 ³⁄"”
GRADE PLANE
113’-8 ³⁄"”
LOWEST GRADE ELEVATION
112.6’ (112’-7¹⁄#”)
LOWEST GRADE ELEVATION
112.6’ (112’-7¹⁄#”)
41’-3 ⁵⁄"”
41’-3 ⁵⁄"”
BUILDING HEIGHT PER APPROVED SPAR GRADE PLANE
BUILDING HEIGHT PER APPROVED SPAR GRADE PLANE
5’-0”
5’-0”
42’- 4 ³⁄#”
47’- 4 ³⁄#”
BUILDING HEIGHT PER S.M. MUN. CODE 27.04.080
42’- 4 ³⁄#”
47’- 4 ³⁄#”
BUILDING HEIGHT PER S.M. MUN. CODE 27.04.080

--- page 55 ---
PROPOSED
6&$/(
352-(&7
'$7(
-2%12
'5$:1
'5$:,1*
12
'$7(
68%0,66,21
%8,/',1*(/(9$7,216


$XWKRU
6'(/(:$5(675((7
6$10$7(2&$
$31
127)25
&216758&7,21
%$<0($'2:6
3+$6(,, 5(6

1R
'DWH
'HVFULSWLRQ
TOP OF PLATE
TOP OF PLATE
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE
E. PARAPET
E. PARAPET
157’-0”
157’-0”
164’-4”
164’-4”
161’-2”
161’-2”
LOWEST GRADE ELEVATION
112.6’ (112’-7¹⁄"”)
LOWEST GRADE ELEVATION
112.6’ (112’-7¹⁄"”)
GRADE PLANE
113’-8 ³⁄#”
GRADE PLANE
113’-8 ³⁄#”
43’-3 ⁵⁄#”
43’-3 ⁵⁄#” 
PROPOSED BUILDING HEIGHT PER APPROVED SPAR GRADE PLANE
PROPOSED BUILDING HEIGHT PER APPROVED SPAR GRADE PLANE
7’-4”
7’-4”
48’-6 ³⁄"”
51’-8 ³⁄"”
44’- 4 ³⁄"”
PROPOSED BUILDING HEIGHT PER S.M. MUN. CODE 27.04.080
48’-6 ³⁄"”
51’-8 ³⁄"”
44’- 4 ³⁄"”
PROPOSED BUILDING HEIGHT PER S.M. MUN. CODE 27.04.080

--- page 56 ---
SPAR
1




6&$/(
(1/$5*('($67(/(9$7,21$7.<1(675((7

 





6&$/(
(1/$5*('($67&2857<$5'(/(9$7,21

 





6&$/(
3$57,$/6(/(9

 





6&$/(
(1/$5*('6287+&2857<$5'(/(9$7,21

 

REV. 16 JULY, 2008
TOP OF PLATE
TOP OF PLATE
TOP OF PARAPET
TOP OF PARAPET
155’-0”
155’-0”
160’-0”
160’-0”
GRADE PLANE
113’-8 ³⁄"”
GRADE PLANE
113’-8 ³⁄"”
LOWEST GRADE ELEVATION
112.6’ (112’-7¹⁄#”)
LOWEST GRADE ELEVATION
112.6’ (112’-7¹⁄#”)
41’-3 ⁵⁄"”
41’-3 ⁵⁄"”
BUILDING HEIGHT PER APPROVED SPAR GRADE PLANE
BUILDING HEIGHT PER APPROVED SPAR GRADE PLANE
5’-0”
5’-0”
42’- 4 ³⁄#”
47’- 4 ³⁄#”
BUILDING HEIGHT PER S.M. MUN. CODE 27.04.080
42’- 4 ³⁄#”
47’- 4 ³⁄#”
BUILDING HEIGHT PER S.M. MUN. CODE 27.04.080

--- page 57 ---
PROPOSED
6&$/(
352-(&7
'$7(
-2%12
'5$:1
'5$:,1*
12
'$7(
68%0,66,21
%8,/',1*(/(9$7,216


(/$
6'(/(:$5(675((7
6$10$7(2&$
$31
127)25
&216758&7,21
%$<0($'2:6
3+$6(,, 5(6

1R
'DWH
'HVFULSWLRQ
TOP OF PLATE
TOP OF PLATE
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE
E. PARAPET
E. PARAPET
157’-0”
157’-0”
164’-4”
164’-4”
161’-2”
161’-2”
LOWEST GRADE ELEVATION
112.6’ (112’-7¹⁄"”)
LOWEST GRADE ELEVATION
112.6’ (112’-7¹⁄"”)
GRADE PLANE
113’-8 ³⁄#”
GRADE PLANE
113’-8 ³⁄#”
43’-3 ⁵⁄#”
43’-3 ⁵⁄#” 
PROPOSED BUILDING HEIGHT PER APPROVED SPAR GRADE PLANE
PROPOSED BUILDING HEIGHT PER APPROVED SPAR GRADE PLANE
7’-4”
7’-4”
48’-6 ³⁄"”
48’-6 ³⁄"”
51’-8 ³⁄"”
51’-8 ³⁄"”
44’- 4 ³⁄"”
44’- 4 ³⁄"”
PROPOSED BUILDING HEIGHT PER S.M. MUN. CODE 27.04.080
PROPOSED BUILDING HEIGHT PER S.M. MUN. CODE 27.04.080

--- page 58 ---
SPAR
1




	

	
	






	





(sic) 160’-0”
(sic) 160’-0”
42’- 4 ³⁄•”
42’- 4 ³⁄•”
47’- 4 ³⁄•”
47’- 4 ³⁄•”
BUILDING HEIGHT PER S.M. MUN. CODE 27.04.080
BUILDING HEIGHT PER S.M. MUN. CODE 27.04.080
LOWEST GRADE ELEVATION
LOWEST GRADE ELEVATION
112.6’ (112’-7¹⁄•”)
112.6’ (112’-7¹⁄•”)

--- page 59 ---
PROPOSED
('021'6/(
$5&+,7(&7
ZZZHGPRQGVOHHFRP
0LVVLRQ6WUHHW
6DQ)UDQFLVFR&$
7
-2%12
5(9,6,216
,668('
'$7(
'(6&5,37,2
'$7(
6&$/(
'5$:,1*
352-(&7


%$<0($'2:6
3+$6(,, 5(6
6'(/(:$5(675((7
6$10$7(2&$
$31
$

29(5$//%8,/'
6(&7,216
127)25
&216758&7,2
'$7(
'(6&5,37,21
%



	
 




 
	









%





"






#	%
	
!
	



 !"#$
%& %!
'(
(#)#$
2		3
%	%3
%%
3

%	
4
3
%3
(3
	23
5
33#
#	(%
"% %
$!%
%#	0$
!

$!
	

%	%
$
'%
$
'
$$
'
$
'
$
'#

#%

%	
 #%



"

"


 )


	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 
 


"

"

#	

$
	
	
	
"* 
7	

"	"!
$"

"!

	

	


"


	

	

	

	

	

	
	
 

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
"
 )

#	
$
	
	
	
 


"

"

"* 
7	

""	"$"!

"!
HIGHEST PARAPET
HIGHEST PARAPET
164’-4”
164’-4”
7’-4”
7’-4”
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE
LOWEST GRADE ELEVATION
112.6’ (112’-7¹⁄"”)
LOWEST GRADE ELEVATION
112.6’ (112’-7¹⁄"”)
44’- 4 ³⁄"”
48’- 6 ³⁄"” (E. PARAPET)
48’- 8 ³⁄"” (W. PARAPET)
51’- 8 ³⁄"”
PROPOSED BUILDING HEIGHT PER S.M. MUN. CODE 27.04.080
44’- 4 ³⁄"”
48’- 6 ³⁄"” (E. PARAPET)
48’- 8 ³⁄"” (W. PARAPET)
51’- 8 ³⁄"”
PROPOSED BUILDING HEIGHT PER S.M. MUN. CODE 27.04.080

--- page 60 ---
352326('%8,/',1*+(,*+7
6&$/( 


6&$/(
352-(&7
'$7(
-2%12
'5$:1
'5$:,1*
12
'$7(
68%0,66,21
 

%8,/',1*6(&7,21


$XWKRU
6'(/(:$5(675((7
6$10$7(2&$
$31
127)25
&216758&7,21
%$<0($'2:6
3+$6(,, 5(6

1R
'DWH
'HVFULSWLRQ

	

	



	

	

	

	

	

	
	
	
	
	
   
	
!"
#	
	

	

	

	

 


	
$
% 
	

	
	

	
	

	
 
#	
$
	
 & $
	
&$
$
'" 
"$ $
&$
"$ $
&$
('"!
"
('"!
"
PROPOSED
/(9(/


/(9(/


$
%
/(9(/


/(9(/


522)


72+,*+3$5$3(7


*5$'(3/$1(


/(9(/%










%8,/',1*+(,*+7


7<3&/1*+7


5(6,'(17,$/81,7
5(6,'(17,$/81,7
5(6,'(17,$/81,7
5(6,'(17,$/81,7
3/$7(/,1(
3$5.,1**$5$*(

:7-,
6&$/(  


%8,/',1*6(&7,21 %8,/',1*+(,*+7
SPAR
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES
TOP OF PARAPET
164’-4”
7’-4”
160’-0”
5’-0”
$
	
W. PARAPET
E. PARAPET
LOWEST GRADE ELEVATION
112.6’ (112’-7¹⁄"”)
LOWEST GRADE ELEVATION
112.6’ (112’-7¹⁄"”)
44’- 4 ³⁄"”
48’- 6 ³⁄"” (E. PARAPET)
48’- 8 ³⁄"” (W. PARAPET)
51’- 8 ³⁄"”
42’- 4 ³⁄"”
47’- 4 ³⁄"”
PROPOSED BUILDING HEIGHT PER S.M. MUN. CODE 27.04.080
PROPOSED BUILDING HEIGHT PER S.M. MUN. CODE 27.04.080

--- page 61 ---
SPAR

	



	


	



	

 

 


 




	
 

 

 	
 
 	
 	






1








   





!!  ""#
"	
!
#"$

"


%

 
	  ""#
"	
!
#"$

"



--- page 62 ---
PROPOSED
	




















	













	





	



 !"#$
%& %!
'(
(#)#$
)*
+		*
		,*

	-
.
*
	*
/*
-)*
01
20



**-
@	
-	 	
A@	
	
-



-	-
,	



-	

	-

	
	
	

	


+
-
	
-


	
-
	
-
	
-

	
-
	
-
	
-
	
-
	
-
	
-
	
-


	
-


	
-

	
-

	
-

	
-

	
-

	
-
	

	
+
A
	
A
	
A
	
A
	
A
	
A
	
A
	
A

	
	
+
A

	
A
	
A
	
A
	
A
	
A
	
A
	
A
	
	
+
A

	
A
	
A
	
A
	

	
	
	
	


-	-
	
	
	


-	-
	
A
	
-

	



	
*
	/,	-	-			
	+			
2
	/-+,	-	-			
	+		2

	 
	!	
"	
#		



	$%

	
	
	
 	&
	-/,-+,	-	-
-)	/,	
,	B	,1
	>,-+-	-
	-+-+-	-
	C
	1-

	



	

	

	


	

	

	

	

	

	

	



	



	


	


	


	


	

	
	



	

	

	


	


	


	


	


	


	



	



	


	


	


	


	


	


	


	



	


	


	


	


	* 01
20

+
	* 01
20

+
	* 01
20

+
	* 01
20

+
*NOTE* 
ALL PRIVATE OPEN SPACES ARE 60 SF OR GREATER & 
MEASURE NOT LESS THAN 6 FT IN ANY DIRECTION

--- page 63 ---
PROPOSED
PLANTING LEGEND
BIORETENTION PLANTING LEGEND
TREE
SHRUB
GROUNDCOVER
28' 6"
20'-0"
0'-0
0'-0
0'-0
-0
SS
SS
SS
SS
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
S
SD
SD
SD
PLANTING PLAN
© 2019 Edmonds + Lee, Inc.
JOB NO:
REVISIONS:
ISSUED:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
#
DATE:
SCALE:
DRAWING:
PROJECT:
EDMONDS  +  LEE
A R C H I T E C T S
www.edmondslee.com
2601 Mission Street,  #503
San Francisco,CA 94110
T 415 . 285 . 1300
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
DATE
DESCRIPTION
12/13/2019
BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II - RES 6
3069 E. KYNE STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
APN. 040-031-040
2019.04
06/14/2019
100% SD
03/20/2020
PERMIT SET R1
07/26/2019
50% DD
09/06/2019
100% DD
11/15/2019
50% CD
12/13/2019
80% CD / PERMIT
03/20/2020
PERMIT SET R1
06/19/2020
PERMIT SET R2
06/19/2020
PERMIT SET R2
L5.01
PLANTING PLAN
1/8" = 1'-0"
2
PLANTING PLAN
MATCH LINE
LINE
1/ L5.02
N
LANDING 
LANDING  AVENUE
AVENUE
AZE
AZE
BA
BA
ROAD
ROAD
⅊
⅊
⅊
⅊
⅊
⅊
⅊
TE
CA
C
DR
L
30
AN
N
P
30
3
AN
AN
AN
AN
AN
AN
AN
AN
A

--- page 64 ---
GARAGE RAMP
16'-0"
28'-6"
W
W
PLANTING LEGEND
TREE
© 2019 Edmonds + Lee, Inc.
JOB NO:
REVISIONS:
ISSUED:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
#
SCALE:
EDMONDS  +  LEE
A R C H I T E C T S
www.edmondslee.com
2601 Mission Street,  #503
San Francisco,CA 94110
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
DATE
DESCRIPTION
12/13/2019
BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II - RES 6
2019.04
06/14/2019
100% SD
03/20/2020
PERMIT SET R1
07/26/2019
50% DD
09/06/2019
100% DD
11/15/2019
50% CD
12/13/2019
80% CD / PERMIT
03/20/2020
PERMIT SET R1
06/19/2020
PERMIT SET R2
06/19/2020
PERMIT SET R2
L5.02
PLANTING PLAN
1/8" = 1'-0"
MATCH LINE
INE
M
H L
2/ L5.01
2
MATCH LINE
NE
MA
MAT
E
ATC
IN
2/ L5.01
5.01
01
⅊
⅊
⅊
LANDING  AVENUE
PROMENADE
⅊
⅊

--- page 65 ---
PROPOSED
© 2019 Edmonds + Lee, Inc.
JOB NO:
REVISIONS:
ISSUED:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
#
DATE:
SCALE:
DRAWING:
PROJECT:
EDMONDS  +  LEE
A R C H I T E C T S
www.edmondslee.com
2601 Mission Street,  #503
San Francisco,CA 94110
T 415 . 285 . 1300
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
DATE
DESCRIPTION
12/13/2019
BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II - RES 6
3069 E. KYNE STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
APN. 040-031-040
2019.04
06/14/2019
100% SD
03/20/2020
PERMIT SET R1
07/26/2019
50% DD
09/06/2019
100% DD
11/15/2019
50% CD
12/13/2019
80% CD / PERMIT
03/20/2020
PERMIT SET R1
06/19/2020
PERMIT SET R2
06/19/2020
PERMIT SET R2
3/20/2020 6:51:51 AM
L4.07
LANDSCAPE
DETAILS - LANDING
AVE FENCE & GATE
XX
01
LANDING AVE ENTRY FENCE & GATE PLAN
02
LANDING AVE FENCE & GATE ELEVATION

--- page 66 ---
PROPOSED
© 2019 Edmonds + Lee, Inc.
JOB NO:
REVISIONS:
ISSUED:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
#
DATE:
SCALE:
DRAWING:
PROJECT:
EDMONDS  +  LEE
A R C H I T E C T S
www.edmondslee.com
2601 Mission Street,  #503
San Francisco,CA 94110
T 415 . 285 . 1300
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
DATE
DESCRIPTION
12/13/2019
BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II - RES 6
3069 E. KYNE STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
APN. 040-031-040
2019.04
06/14/2019
100% SD
03/20/2020
PERMIT SET R1
07/26/2019
50% DD
09/06/2019
100% DD
11/15/2019
50% CD
12/13/2019
80% CD / PERMIT
03/20/2020
PERMIT SET R1
06/19/2020
PERMIT SET R2
06/19/2020
PERMIT SET R2
L4.09
LANDSCAPE
DETAILS -
PROMENADE FENCE
& GATE
01
PROMENADE ENTRY FENCE AND GATE PLAN
02
PROMENADE ENTRY ELEVATION
03
PROMENADE ENTRY SECTION

--- page 67 ---
SPAR
G-1
P-_
LEGEND
CONCRETE
 
CAST-IN-PLACE
FIBER CEMENT PANEL
 
COLOR 4
FIBER CEMENT PANEL
 
COLOR 5
GLAZING
 
ALUMINUM
 
CLEAR ANODIZED
METAL STANDING SEAM ROOFING
 
COLOR 4
METAL FAME GATES
 
COLOR 3
METAL SOFFIT PANEL & FASCIAS
 
COLOR 4
METAL CANOPIES
 
COLOR 4
METAL GUARDRAILS
 
COLOR 4
PLASTER
 
COLOR 1
PLASTER
 
COLOR 2
COLORS BASED ON BENJAMIN MOORE
COLOR 1: I-03 Bone White
COLOR 2:  HC-105 Rockport Gray
COLOR 3:  2142-70 Bittersweet Chocolate
COLOR 4:  HC-168 Chelsea Gray
COLOR 5:  HC-22 Blair Gold
C-1
C-2
C-3
G-1
M-1
M-2
M-3
M-5
M-8
P-1
P-2
1
2
3
4
5
C-1
2
1
5
4
3
1
P-1
C-2
M-8
P-1
C-2
M-5
P-1
P-2
C-2
C-3
C-1
M-3

--- page 68 ---
PROPOSED









	




	


	










	











	



 !"#$
%& %!
'(
(#)#$
$%

&		%
	'%


	(	
)
%
%

*	+%
(
$%
96%3%<(
=*
(		 
6
6>=

"33
(33

3



	



	(	
M-3
P-1
C-3
C-2
C-2
C-2
M-5
M-8
P-1
P-1
P-2
G-1 VPI VINYL WINDOWS 
“BLACK”
“BLACK”
M-2 METAL GATES
M-8 METAL GUARDRAILS
C-1 CONRETE
P-1 PLASTER
LA HABRA STUCCO 
“X-40, DOVE GREY”
P-2 PLASTER
LA HABRA STUCCO 
“PLATEAU”
“GRAPHITE” 
M-1 STANDING-SEAM 
       METAL ROOFING 
M-3 MTL SOFFITS 
       & FASCIAS
M-5 MTL CANOPIES
C-2 CEMENT PANEL 
JAMES HARDIE 
“AGED PEWTER”
C-3 CEMENT PANEL
JAMES HARDIE 
“AUTUMN TAN”

--- page 69 ---
PROPOSED
Rendering: View from the corner of Landing Ave. & Baze Rd.
Rendering: View from the corner of Kyne St. & the View Corridor (Promenade)
Rendering: View from the corner of Landing Ave. & Kyne St.
Rendering: View from the corner of Baze Rd. & the View Corridor (Promenade)

--- page 70 ---
PROPOSED
		


	
		

	

 	
		
		

	
		
	
				

		 	
		
					
				
	
		 !		"
 
					

 		
	

	
	

			#		
		
	
		
				$!%	
		

!
	
				
	&		
"
			
 	
					
	&		 !'	( 	

			

		
)		
 	
	
		
	
		

		
	

$
 		
	
		
	
			#	
	
		
				
		
	
	
	

%
	
 		

	
$	( %			

*
		
 		


		( *			
	


			
 	+		
	#	



,	


- 
	""
			
			
 			
 			

.	

	

































( %
	

	&%&
	



 !"#$
%& %!
'(
(#)#$
)	-


-


-



9
-

-
-
)-
5	:41:8';71
$&&	--" 	
	

		( 
	
 *		.	


	#		*!! 
	!( (!

*!

	
	
&!&*
E	

$&&*
"E	
*&&*
E	
&"&*
"E	
& &*
%E		&	
 &&
	
	
&*&
	
	
	


	



(	
		



	
 
	
!

"



			
$
	
%
.		
*
		

		#	"E			


				GH

	
 

	

!
	

"
	#	 >		(	
	


		

				

	
				
		
$
		
%
.		.		

					

*
				
	
		$#	
			
#	"
*
				
	#

			
#	"


	
	
		(
		$"

		
.	

)				
.
 
!(			
!
		

				
		

"
.	

GH	.	.#	
		/
$
		
	

#	
		/
%
GH		.	.#	
	
/
*

	
	
		

	
 
	/			

	






-  & +	F	/(+










	































































	







 















 







	





 !"










"
!##$
"!

"
!##$
"!

"
!##
$
"!

"
!##
$
"!

"
!##$
"!

"
!##$
"!

"
!##
$
"!

"
!##
$
"!

"
!##
$
"!

!

"!
"
!##$
"!

Solar Panels on Ballasted Skids or Pipe-Mounted
Key:
Solar Panels Mounted on Standing Seam Metal Roof
Examples of Solar Panels Mounted on Standing Seam Metal Rooﬁ ng
Examples of Solar Panels on Ballasted Skids
Examples of Pipe Mounted Solar Panels

--- page 71 ---
BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II - RES 6
3069 E. KYNE STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
APN. 040-031-040
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
DATE
DESCRIPTION
www.arup.com
Tel (415) 957 9445   Fax (415) 957 9096
San Francisco, CA 94105   USA
560 Mission Street, Suite 700
Arup North America Ltd.
JOB NO:
REVISIONS:
ISSUED:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
#
DATE:
SCALE:
DRAWING:
PROJECT:
07-26-2019    50% DD
EDMONDS  +  LEE
A R C H I T E C T S
www.edmondslee.com
2601 Mission Street,  #503
San Francisco,CA 94110
T 415 . 285 . 1300
09-06-2019   100% DD
11-08-2019    40% CD
11-15-2019    50% CD
12-13-2019    80% CD/PERMIT
03-20-2020    PERMIT SET R1
06-19-2020    PERMIT SET R2
C601
SITE PLAN
1" = 20'
06-19-2020
270409
NOTES
1.
REFER TO SHEETS T0.01 AND T0.02 FOR TREE
PROTECTION MEASURES.
2
2
2
Feet
0
20
40
SCALE 1:20

--- page 72 ---
Conditions of Approval
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 Page 15 of 40

47. RESIDENTIAL BICYCLE PARKING — RES 6 shall satisfy the long-term multi-family
bicycle parking requirements consistent with SMMC Ch. 27.64.262 via two on-site secure
bicycle storage rooms to accommodate the required 73 bicycle stalls as approved under
PA-2020-033 SPAR Modification. The bicycle storage rooms shall be shown on the building
permit plans, subject to review and approval of the Zoning Administrator or designee, and
compliance verified prior to final inspection. Should the project not be able accommodate the
approved number of long-term bicycle parking stalls, it shall be required to address the
shortfall through the installation of a physical device as specified in the following paragraph.

In RES 4 and RES 6, a physical device to enable bicycle parking (such as a ring installed
in concrete or a heavy cable) shall be installed in front of the parking spaces in residential
parking garages stalls so long as the installation and use does not cause the parking as
designed on the SPAR drawings to be in conflict with City code. These physical devices may
be located in areas where the parking stall abuts a wall or wherever else deemed to be
feasible. This device shall be shown on building permit plans, subject to the review and
approval of the Zoning Administrator and the Director of Public Works, or their
designees. The covenants, conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs) for the residential portion
of the project shall not preclude the use of such physical device for bicycle parking, provided
that access to required parking spaces is maintained, and there is no conflict with
applicable City Codes. (PLANNING/CITY ATTORNEY)


--- page 73 ---
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
PA 07-055 
Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
2600 S. Delaware Street/ APN: 040-030-190 & -200 
As approved by the Planning Commission on October 14, 2008 
 
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions 
of approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required 
compliance. Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of 
required compliance.  
 
The following conditions shall be addressed on the construction plans submitted for any 
BUILDING PERMIT and shall be met prior to the issuance of said permit.  
 
1. CONFORMANCE WITH APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION AND SPECIFIC 
PLAN - All building permit drawings and subsequent construction shall substantially 
conform with the approved planning application and the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific 
Plan Amendment, including: drawings, materials samples, building colors, and other items 
submitted as part of the approved planning application. Any proposed modifications to the 
approved planning application must be reviewed and approved by the Chief of Planning 
and/or Zoning Administrator. The Chief of Planning and/or Zoning Administrator shall 
determine whether the proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved 
planning application, or whether a new planning application must be submitted to permit the 
proposed project modifications. At the applicant’s expense, additional design review by the 
City’s design review consultant may be necessary to review proposed changes to the 
approved plans. A new planning application shall be subject to review by the Zoning 
Administrator, Planning Commission, and/or City Council. (PLANNING) 
 
2. GENERAL – These Conditions of Approval apply to the Bay Meadows Phase II Site Plan 
and Architectural Review (SPAR) Planning Application #2, covering the following blocks: 
RES 4, RES 5, RES 6, RES 8, RES 9, the Neighborhood Park, and the eastern portion of the 
View Corridor (east of Baze Road). Additional Conditions of Approval that may also apply 
to this Planning Application are hereby incorporated by reference and include applicable 
conditions in the Conditions of Approval of the following Planning Applications: Bay 
Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment and Master Tentative Map (PA 02-105) and 
Bay Meadows Phase II Site Development Permit and Vesting Tentative Subdivision Map 
(“Project Tentative Map”) (PA 07-037). In addition, other conditions concerning public 
benefits and timing may be specified in the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement 
("Development Agreement").  To the extent that a Condition of Approval is modified by the 
approval of a subsequent Planning Application, the modified condition (i.e. the most recently 
approved condition) shall govern.  In addition, in the case of a conflict between the 
Development Agreement and any Condition of Approval, the Development Agreement shall 
govern and control.  Compliance with Citywide codes concerning construction, fire and 
building requirements in effect at the time building permits are reviewed shall be required. 
(PLANNING, BUILDING, FIRE, POLICE, PARKS AND RECREATION, PUBLIC 
WORKS, CITY ATTORNEY)

--- page 74 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 2 of 40
 
 
3. EXPIRATION OF APPROVAL – This Planning Application approval is valid for five years 
from the final date of approval, per the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement 
("Development Agreement"). (PLANNING) 
 
4. * MITIGATION MONITORING – Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval #4, 
the applicant and property owner (including subsequent owners) shall be responsible for 
compliance with the mitigation measures adopted as part of the Final Environmental Impact 
Report (FEIR) for the project, as specified in the Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting 
Program, approved by the City Council on November 7, 2005.  The Mitigation Monitoring 
and Reporting Program identifies the time frame and responsible party for implementation 
and monitoring of each mitigation measure adopted by the San Mateo City Council; and is 
hereby incorporated into the conditions of approval in accordance with California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Section 21081.6.  In the event that a specific condition 
of project approval, as adopted by the City Council with respect to any project related 
impact, is different than the mitigation measure specified in the FEIR, the condition of 
approval shall take precedence. (PLANNING, BUILDING, FIRE, POLICE, PARKS AND 
RECREATION PUBLIC WORKS) Specific Plan Amendment COA #4 
 
5. PRE-CONSTRUCTION CONFERENCE - A pre-construction conference shall be held at a 
time and location agreed upon by the City and applicant for the purpose of reviewing 
Conditions of Approval and construction-site procedures.  The building owner/developer 
shall be represented by his design and construction staffs, which include any relevant sub-
contractors as deemed necessary by the applicant.  Departments having conditions of 
approval for the project will represent the City. (PLANNING, BUILDING, FIRE, POLICE, 
PARKS AND RECREATION PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
6. CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – The final building permit plans shall include all the 
Conditions of Approval as a sheet or sheets within the plan set.  (PLANNING)  
 
7. STORMWATER MANAGEMENT INSERT SHEET – Final plans shall include the City’s 
Stormwater Management Insert Sheet as a sheet within the plan set. (PLANNING, PUBLIC 
WORKS, BUILDING) 
 
8. NOTICE OF PROJECT RESTRICTIONS – The property owner at the time of this SPAR 
approval shall record a Notice of Project Restrictions in the official records of the County of 
San Mateo and provide proof of such recordation to the City prior to issuance of any City 
permit, allowed special use of the property, or Final Map, as applicable. The Notice of 
Project Restrictions shall provide a description of the subject property, shall identify the 
Planning Application name and number and any accompanying subdivision or parcel map, 
including book and page and recorded document number, if any, and be signed and notarized 
by each property owner of record and shall state the following:

--- page 75 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 3 of 40
 
“This Notice of Project Restrictions is for the purpose of informing interested persons of the 
fact that development approvals have been given by the City of San Mateo regarding the 
herein described property and that such approvals are conditioned upon compliance with 
certain restrictions that run with the land and are binding upon subsequent owners of the 
property. For more information about the restrictions applicable to this property, contact the 
Planning Division of the City of San Mateo regarding PA 07-055 Bay Meadows II SPAR 
#2.”    
 
For purposes of determining the record owner of the property, the applicant shall provide the 
City with evidence in the form of a report from a title insurance company indicating that the 
record owner(s) are the person(s) who have authority to sign the Notice of Project 
Restrictions. (PLANNING) 
 
9. REVISIONS TO PROJECT – Changes to the SPAR 2 plans were made following direction 
from the Planning Commission and staff comments.  The revisions are included as 
Attachment #19, 20, and 21 (Window Information, Bike Racks & Location Plan, and 
Supplemental Drawings with Revisions to Project Plans) of the Administrative Report and 
include changes to the bike rack locations for blocks in SPAR #2, type of bike rack on 
private property, View Corridor, building elevations in RES 5, 8, 9a, and 9b, elevations 
facing auto-courts, landscaping and fences.   
 
The project shall be modified to reflect the following Planning Commission direction: 
A. Res 9b – remove trellis above garages, otherwise retain changes as shown on plans. 
B. Res 9a – Lot 19, remove railing at new bay window, otherwise retain changes to Lots 
19 & 23 elevations as shown on plans. 
C. Res 8 – retain changes as shown on plans. 
D. Res 6 – no design changes, retain clarification. 
E. Res 5 – retain changes as shown on plans. 
F. Res 4 – retain clarifications to plans. 
G. View Corridor – retain changes as shown on plans. 
H. Neighborhood Park – enable change of ownership of the Garden Walk & allow it to 
be retained by the applicant & require a public access easement to ensure substantial 
conformance with the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement. 
 
The final building permit plans shall be reflect these revisions and shall be subject to the 
review and approval of the Zoning Administrator.  (PLANNING) 
 
10. WINDOWS – The final building permit plans shall include a detailed window and door 
schedule for all buildings in SPAR #2.  Depending on the architectural style of the buildings, 
the exterior windows and doors shall be either Milgard Montecito or Milgard Style Line 
Series vinyl windows & doors, or comparable as determined by the Zoning Administrator.  
Trim and reveal details shall be shown on the final building permit plans, and shall be 
consistent with the architectural style proposed for each building.  Where a reveal of the 
window is stylistically appropriate, that reveal shall be made through a combination of 
exterior trim and the profile of the window assembly.  The final window and door details for 
all blocks shall be subject to the review and approval of the Zoning Administrator.  
(PLANNING)

--- page 76 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 4 of 40
 
 
11. ROOF VENTS – The final building permit plans shall limit the number of roof vents facing 
street(s), shall show roof vents are combined where feasible and/or moved to the side of the 
roof fronting the interior of the block.  The final integration of roof vents shall be subject to 
the review and approval of the Zoning Administrator. (PLANNING) 
 
12. ENCROACHMENTS INTO REQUIRED SETBACKS – The final building permit plans 
shall show and call out all encroachments into the required setbacks.  Fences, gates, retaining 
walls, and planters shall not exceed a maximum height of 3 feet if located within the required 
setback areas, unless identified as a requested deviation in the two Design Guideline 
Deviations letters included as Attachment #9 (List of Design Guidelines & Development 
Standards Deviations and Explanations.  The final details for encroachments into required 
setbacks shall be subject to the review and approval of the Zoning Administrator.  
(PLANNING) 
 
13. VARIETY OF GARAGE DOOR DESIGNS – The final building permit plans shall show 
two different garage door treatments in RES 5, 8 and 9 that provide variety and are integrated 
architecturally with the design of the buildings.  The two different treatments are shown in 
Attachment #21 (Supplemental Drawings with Revisions to Project Plans) and shall be 
incorporated into final building permits plan which shall be subject to the review and 
approval of the Zoning Administrator.  (PLANNING) 
 
14. EXTERIOR BUILDNG FINISHES – The final building permit plans and subsequent 
construction shall show that the exterior building finishes are carried down, as close as 
possible as permitted by the Building Code, to the sidewalk, paved surface, or grade to 
provide a finished base edge to the exterior finish that follows the grade of the sidewalk, 
other paved surface or finished grade.  Irregular gaps between the finished base edge of 
building’s exterior finish and the sidewalk, paved surface, or grade shall not be permitted.  
The final details for exterior finishes shall be subject to the review and approval of the 
Zoning Administrator.  (PLANNING) 
 
15. TRELLIS & COVERED ENTRY FEATURES – The following features are shown in 
Attachment #21 (Supplemental Drawings with Revisions to Project Plans) of the staff report: 
 Trellis feature located between Buildings C & D in RES 5, 
 Covered entry feature between Buildings A & B in RES 5, 
 Trellis feature located between Buildings A & B in RES 8. 
The above features shall be incorporated into the final building permit plans which shall be 
subject to the review and approval of the Zoning Administrator.  (PLANNING) 
 
16. USE EASEMENTS FROM ADJACENT LOTS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY LOTS IN RES 9A- 
The applicant or owner shall provide use easements for the benefit of the single-family lots 
with Block RES 9A as shown on the approved planning application plans (for an example 
refer to sheet A2.2.1).  The easement dedication shall be reviewed and approved by the City 
Attorney and Public Works Director or his designee.  Said easements shall be dedicated on 
the RES 9a final map for the individual lots prior to sale of the lots.  The final map and 
associated CC&R shall be subject to the review and approval of the Director of Public Works 
or his designee, and the City Attorney.   (PUBLIC WORKS, CITY ATTORNEY)

--- page 77 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 5 of 40
 
 
 
17. EASEMENT FOR RES 4 PUBLIC PEDESTRIAN PASSAGE & PEDESTRIAN GATE IN 
BLOCK RES 4  – The final building permit plans shall include the required pedestrian 
passage easement in RES 4 consistent with the location and width shown on the approved 
Project Tentative Map (PA#07-037) and shall show the design details for features within the 
public pedestrian access easement, including signage.  This easement serves to continue the 
pedestrian connection from MU3 to the Neighborhood Park, gate in RES 4 pedestrian access 
easement shall be removed.  The applicant or owner shall provide signage to indicate the 
public pedestrian easement and the hours of public access to the Neighborhood Park.  The 
CC&R for RES 4 shall acknowledge the public pedestrian access easement, specify the hours 
of public access and the procedure for modifying the hours as necessary, specify the required 
signage, and specify the owner’s association that will assume responsibility for maintenance 
and repair of the easement area.  The final building permit plans shall show that the public 
access easement will not be gated. The final details for features with the easement area shall 
be subject to the review and approval of the Zoning Administrator.  The easement shall be 
dedicated on the final Project Tentative Map that creates the RES 4 Block and shall be 
subject to the review and approval of Public Works Director (or his designee) and the City 
Attorney.    (PLANNING, PUBLIC WORKS, CITY ATTORNEY)  
 
18. VISITOR PARKING – The applicant or owners of RES 5, 8, and 9b shall install signs or 
otherwise indicate which parking stalls are visitor spaces.  Signage or other identification 
method shall be subject to the review and approval of the Zoning Administrator.  
(PLANNING) 
 
19. 29TH AVENUE/DERBY LANE EXTENSION – The applicant or owner shall agree to 
dedicate a sixty (60) foot easement for the purposes of a 29th Avenue Extension, as shown on 
the SPAR #2 plans, to the City for the purposes of right-of-way connection to the Franklin 
Campus.  The dedication of easement will be for purposes of pedestrian and bicycle access, 
but need not accommodate vehicular traffic unless and until a connection from 29th Avenue  
to Saratoga is implemented.  The easement will be reviewed for consistency with the Bay 
Meadows Phase II Site Development Permit, Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan, and other 
applicable codes requirements.  Said easement for the extension of the 29th Avenue right-of-
way shall be dedicated on the project final map for Block RES 5 to the approval of the 
Director of Public Works or his designee.   
 
Details for 29th Avenue Extension shall be consolidated and provided on one sheet as part of 
the final building permit plans, and dedicate to the City as public access easement and when 
Franklin property is developed dedicate to City as a street.  The final building permit plans 
for Block RES 5 shall show the overall dimensions for the parking area, specify landscape 
species and size, dimension of side walk, overall width and length of the 29th Ave/Derby 
Lane extension, the width of the community path connection from RES 3 and RES 5, and the 
width of the walkways in RES 5.  The final building permit plans and subsequent 
construction shall be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator and Public Works Director. 
(PLANNING, PUBLIC WORKS, CITY ATTORNEY)

--- page 78 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 6 of 40
 
20. VIEW CORRIDOR CONNECTION TO FRANKLIN CAMPUS – Should the adjacent 
property, Franklin Templeton (“Franklin”), elect to allow for the connection of the View 
Corridor through their property, the master association for Bay Meadows Phase II will 
cooperate with the City and Franklin to open up the Bay Meadows Phase II property so as to 
provide a clear and unobstructed connection from the View Corridor to the Franklin property. 
(PLANNING) 
 
21. REQUIRED SIGN PERMIT – Building or business owners shall be responsible for obtaining 
separate building permits for all signage that is issued through the Building Division.  All 
signs shall conform to the standards delineated in the Sign Code and Bay Meadows Phase II 
Design Guidelines and Development Standards. The applicant shall apply for approval of a 
Planned Signing District. (PLANNING) 
 
22. MECHANICAL VENTILATION - All mechanical ventilation for subterranean garages shall 
be incorporated into the building architecture, structure, or landscape areas to be shown on 
the building permit plans subject to review and approval by the Zoning Administrator or his 
designee. (PLANNING)  
 
23. ABOVE GROUND UTILITIES, EQUIPMENT, AND DEVICES - All ground level utilities, 
equipment, and other project related operational devices shall be designed and located as 
delineated on the approved planning application drawings, pending final location approval by 
the relevant utility provider.  These project utilities shall be incorporated into the design of 
the project and screened from public view by a solid wall or solid fence, and/or perimeter 
landscaping, or other material subject to review and approval by the Zoning Administrator or 
his designee.  All parties acknowledge that utility providers may make changes to the design 
from time to time and any such changes, along with the associated screening, shall be 
incorporated into the final plans. (PLANNING) 
 
24. SCREENING OF ROOFTOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT – For RES 4 and RES 6, all 
rooftop mechanical equipment must be screened by a solid enclosure or parapet wall, in 
conformance with the approved planning application. Rooftop screening materials shall be 
aesthetically compatible with the building exterior, and shall be subject to the review and 
approval of the Zoning Administrator or his designee. (PLANNING)  
 
25. TREE REPLACEMENT/IN LIEU FEES - The applicant shall plant trees equivalent to the 
Landscape Unit (LU) value of trees to be removed or pay a fee in lieu of planting trees at the 
rate of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) per required LU or such other fee as may be 
established by Resolution of the City Council. Replacement trees shall be in addition to and 
not substitute requirements for street trees, parking lot trees or other required trees (per 
Zoning Code Chapter 27.71). Landscape Unit value credit shall be granted for any trees 
planted in the public parks and trees planted within any of the 18 developable blocks at Bay 
Meadows Phase II project site except required trees (per Zoning Code Chapter 27.71). The 
Planning Division shall maintain a running log of the LU value credits to be subtracted from 
the LU value of removed trees.  (PLANNING)

--- page 79 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 7 of 40
 
26. TREE SPECIES IN VIEW CORRIDOR – Final building permit plans shall include the 
following changes to tree species in the View Corridor: 
The tree species in the View Corridor shall be changed from Tulip Tree to Lombardy Poplar.  
(PLANNING) 
 
27. LANDSCAPE IMPROVEMENTS - All landscape plans shall comply with Chapter 27.71 of 
the Municipal Code. In addition, the following items shall be shown on project plans: 
a) All planting areas shall be protected from common vehicular traffic with an approved 
barrier (a six-inch high vertical concrete curb) designed to withstand reasonable 
impact from vehicles. 
b) An automatic irrigation system shall be provided to adequately water all proposed 
plantings. Backflow prevention devices shall be located in areas approved as part of 
the planning application, screened by landscaping and/or incorporated into the design 
of the project. 
c) A two-inch (2") depth layer of mulch shall be required in all new planting areas 
except in areas of turfgrass or annuals. 
d) The applicant shall provide proof of an agreement with a licensed landscape 
contractor or General Contractor for a ninety (90) day Plant Establishment 
Maintenance Period for all proposed landscape areas.  All landscaped areas shall be 
maintained free of litter, debris and weeds.  All plantings shall be permanently 
maintained in a healthy growing condition and whenever necessary, replaced with 
equivalent plant materials to ensure continued conformance with approved plans.  
(PLANNING) 
 
28. ALLERGENIC, TOXIC, AND INVASIVE PLANTS SPECIES - No plants which are cited 
on a City-wide list of allergenic, toxic, and invasive plants species shall be installed in any 
Park or public easement area including the Neighborhood Park, View Corridor, the required 
pedestrian passage on RES 4.  In the absence of a City-wide list, all plant material lists will 
be reviewed with the City Landscape Architect to identify and preclude commonly 
recognized allergenic, toxic, and invasive plant species. (PLANNING/ PARKS AND 
RECREATION) 
 
29. FINANCIAL SECURITIES FOR LANDSCAPING - For any building permit involving on-
site landscaping on a Block, the applicant shall submit a cost estimate and financial securities 
in a form and amount satisfactory to the Zoning Administrator and Director of Parks and 
Recreation sufficient to ensure the installation of all approved landscape improvements 
including all new trees. The applicant shall request a follow-up inspection by the Planning 
Division in accordance with Section 27.71.060 of the Municipal Code in order to reclaim 
financial securities for landscaping, and shall be subject to the review and approval of the 
Director of Parks and Recreation. (PLANNING, PARKS AND RECREATION) 
 
30. LANDSCAPE SOIL TESTING - For any building permit involving on-site landscaping on a 
Block, the applicant must submit a soils report prepared by a Soil Testing Laboratory.  The 
report must analyze the existing soil and recommend any corrective action or soil amendment 
necessary to make the soil suitable to support the proposed plantings.  Any proposed 
corrective action or soil amendments shall be incorporated into the landscape plans. 
(PLANNING)

--- page 80 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 8 of 40
 
 
31. BELOW MARKET RATE (BMR) UNITS – Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of 
Approval #8, pursuant to Municipal Code Section 27.16.050 and Resolution 41 (1999), and 
subject to the Development Agreement, Prior to issuance of any building permits for 
residential units on a Block, the residential developer shall execute a BMR agreement 
between the applicant and the City specifying how the BMR requirement will be satisfied for 
the proposed residential development.  City development fees may be reduced for the BMR 
units in accordance with the City of San Mateo Below Market Rate Program.  (PLANNING) 
Specific Plan Amendment COA #8 
 
32. UNIFIED CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT FOR SPAR VERTICAL DEVELOPMENT 
– The land developer shall provide for a unified construction management program 
(“Program”) of the Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment area (the “Project”).  The land 
developer shall be the person or entity responsible for constructing the public infrastructure, 
streets, utilities, and similar “horizontal” development.  The Program shall include 
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of common areas including common 
parking, common driveways, landscaping, lighting, signage, security, and similar matters of 
concern during construction.  The Program shall provide for a person to act as the Project 
wide construction manager (“Manager”), and such person shall be the point of contact for the 
land developer in resolving overall site coordination issues with the City with respect to 
construction of the development as shown in the Project area.  This includes coordination of 
the various potential multiple Block builders who will be constructing buildings and other 
“vertical” improvements within the Project. 
 
 
 
 
A letter shall be submitted to the Building Official by the land developer designating the 
Manager prior to the issuance of the first City permit under this, or subsequent, planning 
applications.  This person or a designee shall be on-site at all times that construction 
activities are underway.  Should that designated person change during any phase of 
construction, the land developer shall submit a new letter to the City giving notification of 
change and designating a new person to act as the single point of contact.  It is acknowledged 
that this is a phased Project and a full time on-site person may not be continually required.  
This condition can be modified over the course of the Project with the approval of the 
Director of Public Works Director or Building Official or their designees.  The land 
developer shall have no obligation to coordinate construction activities with respect to (a) the 
construction of the Community Park, (b) the one (1) acre of land dedicated to the City for a 
Below Market Rate housing project, or (c) any activities associated with the potential JPB 
garage construction.  This condition is not intended to limit the land developer to the use of 
only one contractor for purposes of development of the project, but simply to ensure that all 
contractors are fully coordinated.    
 
 
The Manager shall designate an employee or agent as the construction impacts 
coordinator, to be responsible for receiving calls from residents or businesses regarding 
specific construction related complaints, including but not limited to noise, dust, vibration, 
and ground shaking.  The coordinator shall be responsible for taking appropriate measures to 
reduce or eliminate the construction impacts if related to the land development or to 
coordinate with the Block developer (as described below) to mitigate the complaint.  A log of

--- page 81 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 9 of 40
 
complaints and responses shall be kept on file for review by the City. The construction 
impact coordinator shall act as a liaison between the residents in the vicinity of the 
construction and the contractor, so perceived issues are addressed as soon as possible. This 
coordinator shall be available during all phases of construction and for six months after 
completion of construction. A letter shall be submitted to the City by the land developer 
designating this person prior to the issuance of the first City permit. Should that designated 
person change during any phase of construction, the owner shall submit a new letter to the 
City giving notification of the change and designating a new person to act as the construction 
impact coordinator.   
 
 
The developer of each individual Block (the “Block Developer”), or the developer of a 
parcel on a multiple parcel Block, shall designate a Block construction manager (“Block 
Manager”).  That person shall be responsible for meeting with the City’s Building Inspector 
and lead Planner, managing all required testing performed during construction activities, 
providing all testing results to the City, and be the point of contact for any dialogue between 
the City and the Block Developer.  The Block Developer shall also be responsible to report to 
and coordinate with the overall Manager (as defined above).  The Block Manager shall 
respond promptly when contacted by the Manager of any site related construction or 
coordination issues and shall be required to attend overall site coordination meetings as 
needed.  When requested by Manager, the Block Manager shall also provide input to the 
Project’s public newsletter and Project web site (as described below).  The Block Manager 
shall also be required to submit a construction schedule to the Manager that shall be updated 
as needed.  A letter shall be submitted to the Planning Division and the Manager by the 
Block Developer designating the Block Manager prior to the issuance of the first building 
permit relating to any vertical construction on a Block.  This person or a designee shall be 
available at all times that construction activities are underway.  Should that designated person 
change during any phase of construction, the Block Developer shall submit a new letter to the 
City and the Manager giving notification of change and designating a new person to act as 
the single point of contact.  This condition is not intended to limit the Block Developer or 
land developer to the use of only one contractor for purposes of development of the project, 
but simply to ensure that all contractors are fully coordinated. (BUILDING) 
 
33. PUBLIC NEWSLETTER AND PROJECT WEB SITE – The Project wide construction 
manager (“Manager”) shall produce a quarterly construction update newsletter to be 
distributed to the surrounding neighborhoods affected by the project construction, as directed 
by the Building Official or his designee.  The newsletter shall also be distributed to an 
interested parties list maintained by the Manager. The newsletter shall include a summary of 
the progress of construction, significant activities to date, what is expected to take place over 
the next quarter, and any public notices necessary due to work outside the typical working 
hours or conditions.  The newsletter shall include the name and phone number for the 
construction coordinator and be submitted, reviewed and approved by the Building Official 
and Zoning Administrator, or their designees prior to the distribution to the neighborhood. 
The applicant shall prepare a communication plan to be reviewed and approved by the 
Building Official and Zoning Administrator, or their designees.

--- page 82 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 10 of 40
 
The Manager shall also maintain a project web site for the development construction.  The 
site shall include the quarterly newsletter, project schedules, meeting notices, general project 
information, and contact information should anyone need to contact the Manager, impact 
coordinator or his/her staff.  Persons requesting to be placed on the interested parties mailing 
list for the newsletter shall be able to submit this request through the website. The site may 
also provide a video feed from the project site showing real-time views of the construction 
zone.  The site shall be updated and maintained on a regular basis to the approval of the 
Building Official and Zoning Administrator, or their designees. (BUILDING, PLANNING)   
 
34. *INTERIOR NOISE ANALYSIS – Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval 
#51, prior to the issuance of any building permits, the project sponsor shall implement the 
following measures: *Mitigation Measure Noise-BM3 
 
A. An acoustical analysis, prepared by a licensed acoustical consultant, shall be 
submitted with any building permit for construction of buildings containing 
residential uses. The analysis shall include recommendations to ensure that the 
interior noise levels do not exceed 45 dB DNL where the exterior noise levels 
would exceed 60 dB DNL and any other noise requirements contained in the 
City’s General Plan.  Noise control measures shall be designed according to the 
type of building construction and specified sound rating for each building 
element. The analysis shall be submitted to the City prior to issuance of any 
building permit. The implementation of this Condition shall be monitored and 
verified by the Building Division.   Prior to the issuance of any building permit 
for buildings containing residential uses, the applicant shall submit a letter 
prepared by the person/firm who prepared the acoustical analysis for the project, 
verifying that all recommendations contained in the analysis have been 
incorporated into the building permit plans. (BUILDING)  *Mitigation Measure 
Noise-BM3a 
B. Based upon existing and projected future noise levels, sound-rated windows and 
wall constructions shall be incorporated into any buildings containing residential 
uses to achieve an acceptable interior noise level of 45 dB DNL.  Construction 
methods may include resilient channels, staggered studs, double-stud walls, 
acoustic doors and acoustic widows.  If the windows must remain closed to obtain 
the required noise reduction, mechanical ventilation shall be installed in these 
units. Building permit plans shall demonstrate compliance with acoustical 
mitigation. The implementation of this condition shall be monitored and verified 
by the Building Division. (BUILDING) *Mitigation Measure Noise-BM3; 
Specific Plan Amendment COA #51 
 
35. *NOISE ANALYSIS NEAR CALTRAIN TRACKS - Per Specific Plan Amendment 
Condition of Approval #52, an acoustical analysis, prepared by a licensed acoustical 
consultant, shall be submitted with any building permit for buildings containing sensitive 
uses (defined in the City’s General Plan Noise Element) within 530 feet of the centerline of 
the Caltrain tracks. The results of that analysis shall be used by the project sponsor to 
implement measures that would ensure interior noise levels would be no higher than 45 dBA.  
The City shall not issue a building permit for any building containing sensitive uses on the 
project site where the interior noise level standard of 45 dBA would be exceeded.  The

--- page 83 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 11 of 40
 
analysis shall be submitted to the City prior to issuance of any building permit. The 
implementation of this condition shall be monitored and verified by the Building Division.  
(BUILDING)   *Mitigation Measure Noise-BM7; Specific Plan Amendment COA #52 
 
36. SITE SURVEY - Provide site survey of entire parcel stamped and signed by a Land Surveyor 
licensed by the State of California.  The survey shall include, but not be limited to the 
following:  location and dimensions of property line, location of streets and easements, 
existing buildings, topographic contour lines, trees/landscape, miscellaneous structures, etc.  
The purpose of the site survey is to accurately verify compliance with items such as setback 
dimensions, heights of buildings from established contours, compliance with heritage tree 
ordinance, etc. (BUILDING)   
 
 
37. FOOD SERVICE FACILITIES AND PUBLIC POOLS AND SPAS - All projects including 
food service or public pools or spas shall be checked and approved by the County of San 
Mateo Health Department prior to submittal for a building permit. (BUILDING)  
 
38. SHORING/SCAFFOLDING - A separate building permit shall be required for all shoring 
and scaffolding work.  Shoring /scaffolding plans, calculations, etc., shall be reviewed and 
approved by Building Division and the Fire Department.  Notice to the Fire Department shall 
appear on plans requiring the General Contractor to give 24hrs notification in writing to Fire 
Administration prior to the commencement of below-grade shoring and/or demolition, 
followed by 24hrs notice in writing prior to the completion of that same scope of work.  The 
applicant will be required to obtain an encroachment permit from the Public Works 
Department for scaffolding erected within the public right-of-way that has been accepted by 
the City. (BUILDING, FIRE) 
 
39. CITY FEES – Subject to the Development Agreement Section 3.8 “No Further Exactions”, 
all subsequent development or processing fees paid to the City will be those in effect at the 
time the Building Permit Application is received.  (BUILDING) 
 
   
 
 
40. *SOILS REPORT - A soil investigation report satisfactory to the Building Official shall be 
submitted containing design recommendations at the time of building permit application.  
The classification shall be based on observation and any necessary tests of materials 
disclosed by boring or excavations made in appropriate locations.  Additional studies may be 
necessary to evaluate soil strength, the effect of moisture variation on soil-bearing capacity, 
compressibility, liquefaction, seismically induced soil liquefaction, soil instability, and 
expansiveness. 
 
Additionally submit a letter from the Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared the 
soil investigation stating the following (signed and stamped): 
a. The plans and specifications substantially conform to the recommendations in the soil 
investigation. 
b. The Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepare the soil investigation has 
been retained to provide soil site observation and provide periodic and final reports to 
the City of San Mateo. 
Prior to final inspection for any building or structure, the Geotechnical Engineer or Civil 
Engineer who prepared the soil investigation shall issue a final report stating the completed pad,

--- page 84 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 12 of 40
 
foundation, finish grading and associated site work substantially conform to the approved plans, 
specifications and investigations. (BUILDING)  Mitigation Measure Geology-BM5 
 
41. *CULTURAL RESOURCES - Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval #19, 
the project sponsor shall implement a monitoring and response procedure during construction 
of the proposed project in order to avoid adverse effects on potentially significant 
archaeological resources on the project site.  Specific steps in the procedure are described 
below.  The implementation of this condition shall be monitored throughout construction and 
verified by the Planning Division and Public Works Department. (PLANNING, PUBLIC 
WORKS) *Mitigation Measure Cultural-BM1 
 
A. Prior to construction, the construction contractor and subcontractors shall be informed 
of the legal and regulatory consequences of knowingly destroying cultural resources 
or removing artifacts, human remains, bottles, and other significant cultural materials 
from the site.  Significant cultural materials include but are not limited to: aboriginal 
human remains; chipped stone; groundstone; shell and bone artifacts; concentrations 
of fire-cracked rock; ash and charcoal; shell; bone; and historic features such as 
privies or building foundations.  The implementation of this condition shall be 
monitored throughout construction and verified by the Planning Department and 
Public Works Department. *Mitigation Measure Cultural-BM1a 
 
B. If, during any phase of project construction, archaeological resources or human 
remains are discovered, work shall be halted within a 50-foot radius of the find.  
Work shall not be resumed until the find has been evaluated and potential 
significance 
determined 
by 
a 
qualified 
professional 
archaeologist. 
The 
implementation of this condition shall be monitored throughout construction and 
verified by the Planning Department and Public Works Department. *Mitigation 
Measure Cultural-BM1b 
 
C. If the qualified archaeologist determines that any finds are significant, then 
representatives of the construction contractor, the project sponsor, the City of San 
Mateo, and the qualified archaeologist shall determine the appropriate course of 
action.  In the event that human remains are discovered, the provisions outlined in 
CEQA Guidelines Appendix K shall be implemented.  This would require 
consultation with the Native American Heritage Commission, if the remains are 
Native American.  The implementation of this condition shall be monitored 
throughout construction and verified by the Planning Department and Public Works 
Department. *Mitigation Measure Cultural-BM1c 
 
D.  All artifacts or samples collected as part of the initial discovery, monitoring, or 
mitigation shall be properly preserved, cataloged, analyzed, evaluated, and curated 
along with the associated documentation in a professional manner consistent with 
current archaeological standards.  The implementation of this condition shall be 
monitored throughout construction and verified by the Planning Department and 
Public Works Department. *Mitigation Measure Cultural-BM1d  
 
 
Specific Plan Amendment COA #19 
 
42. ACCESS DURING CONSTRUCTION – Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of 
Approval #12, connection through the site for pedestrians and bicyclists, and in particular 
access to the Hillsdale Train Station from completed portions of the project, shall be 
maintained through the Phase II project area during construction to the extent that it can be

--- page 85 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 13 of 40
 
safely provided.  The access plan included in the site development permit plans may be 
modified by future SPAR, Site Development Permit or Building Permit application as needed 
subject to the approval of the Director or Public Works or his designee. (PLANNING, 
PUBLIC WORKS) Specific Plan Amendment COA #12 
 
43. AESTHETICS DURING CONSTRUCTION – Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of 
Approval #11, the developer shall screen from public view (at street level) portions of the 
property during construction.  If the sidewalks adjacent to the project site are being utilized 
by the public to access previously occupied portions of the development site, the applicant 
shall maintain the pedestrian access, providing adequate ADA clearance and pedestrian 
protection from overhead construction activities. Individual blocks or portions of blocks 
within the project site that are actively under construction shall be screened with a six-foot 
high galvanized chain link fence with green vinyl slats or better fence as proposed by the 
applicant and approved by the Zoning Administrator, and shall be located at the back of the 
sidewalk, or other appropriate location to allow active construction of the block.  
 
Such screening is intended to control dust and maintain the aesthetic look of the undeveloped 
portions of the site. The fencing shall remain in place and be maintained in good condition 
until completion of development of applicable sites. A temporary fence plan shall be 
submitted with each building permit plan for final approval by the Director of Public Works 
and Zoning Administrator, or their designees, prior to construction. (PUBLIC WORKS, 
PLANNING) Specific Plan Amendment COA #11 
 
44. * PERMITS REQUIRED BY OTHER AGENCIES – Per Specific Plan Amendment 
Condition of Approval #45, the owner is hereby informed that permits may be required by 
one (1) or more of the following: Army Corps of Engineers, Fish and Game, the JPB and 
Caltrans, and Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD).  If project is within 
jurisdiction of any of these agencies, verification of permit or waiver of permit must be given 
to the Public Works Department prior to issuance of any required City permits.  If the City is 
required to be a party to the permit application and a fee is required, the owner shall 
reimburse the City for its cost.  (PLANNING, PUBLIC WORKS)  * Mitigation Measures 
Traffic - BM4, BM5, and BM12; Specific Plan Amendment COA #45 
 
45. TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM) PROGRAM – Per Specific Plan 
Amendment Condition of Approval #40, in conformance with this Condition, the Applicant 
has prepared a Transportation Demand Management Program (Transportation Management 
Plan).  This document has been approved by the Planning Commission as part of this Project 
Approval. This program is to be implemented using a selection of programs from the 
Corridor Plan and the City/County Association of Governments (C/CAG) to the approval of 
the Director of Public Works and the Zoning Administrator and their designees.  These 
programs, once implemented, must be on-going for the occupied life of the development, 
unless they are altered, exchanged or discontinued in consultation with the City and shall be 
required of each Block developer through recorded CC&R documents.  It shall be a 
requirement that the applicant participate in the Corridor Transportation Management 
Agency (TMA) who will oversee compliance with the TDM Program. (PUBLIC WORKS, 
PLANNING) Specific Plan Amendment COA #40

--- page 86 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 14 of 40
 
46. BICYCLE PARKING –  
 
I. Facilities - At the time of building permit submittal, Bicycle Parking Facilities shall be 
provided in each parking garage, in RES 4 and RES 6, that comply with the following 
requirements:  
a) Size. A minimum of one bicycle parking facility shall be provided in parking lots and 
parking structures containing from thirty (30) to one hundred (100) parking stalls with 
another such facility being provided for each additional one hundred (100) parking 
stalls or fraction thereof.  
b) Access. Facilities shall be designed to provide access to each bicycle, to public 
streets, and access easements. Facilities may be divided and provided at multiple 
locations on-site. Each bicycle shall be provided a minimum of eighteen (18) inch 
side clearance from the centerline of adjacent bicycles and ten (10) inch clearance 
both front and rear. 
c) Security. Facilities shall be provided for securing bicycles such as racks or fixed 
lockers. Outdoor facilities shall be highly visible from the principal use and public 
streets. 
d) Safety. Bicycle and automobile parking areas shall be separated by location, or 
physical barrier. Ground surface shall be finished or planted to avoid mud and dust.  
 
II. Bicycle Rack Locations and Inverted U-shaped Bike Racks - The final building permit 
plans and subsequent construction shall show the following: 
 
a. Additional bike racks shall be provided in Blocks RES 5, RES 8 and RES 9b as 
follows: 
1. On Block RES 5, two (2) bike racks shall be provided in the right-of-way 
adjacent to Baze Road and one (1) bike rack shall be provided in the right-
of-way adjacent to Derby Avenue. 
2. On Block RES 8, one (1) bike rack shall be provided in the right-of-way 
adjacent to Baze Road. 
3. On block RES 9b, bike racks shall be relocated.  One (1) bike rack shall be 
located in the central open space area between RES 9a and RES 9b, one 
(1) bike rack shall be provide at the eastern corner of RES 9b (adjacent to 
the driveway to 31st Avenue), and two (2) bike racks shall be provided 
adjacent to the intersection of Delaware Street and 31st Avenue.  
b. All bicycle parking shall be located in a manner that does not infringe upon the 
sidewalk. 
c. Bicycle racks in the public right-of-way and on private property shall be the same 
to ensure design consistency throughout the Bay Meadows Phase II development. 
d. The final bicycle rack shall be the inverted U-shaped rack and location of racks 
shall be subject to the review of the Zoning Administrator and the Director of 
Public Works. 
(PLANNING/ PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 87 ---
Conditions of Approval 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 15 of 40
47. RESIDENTIAL BICYCLE PARKING – RES 6 shall satisfy the long-term multi-family 
bicycle parking requirements consistent with SMMC Ch. 27.64.262 via two on-site secure 
bicycle storage rooms to accommodate the required 73 bicycle stalls as approved under 
PA-2020-033 SPAR Modification. The bicycle storage rooms shall be shown on the building 
permit plans, subject to review and approval of the Zoning Administrator or designee, and 
compliance verified prior to final inspection. Should the project not be able accommodate the 
approved number of long-term bicycle parking stalls, it shall be required to address the 
shortfall through the installation of a physical device as specified in the following paragraph.
In RES 4 and RES 6, a physical device to enable bicycle parking (such as a ring installed
in concrete or a heavy cable) shall be installed in front of the parking spaces in residential
parking garages stalls so long as the installation and use does not cause the parking as
designed on the SPAR drawings to be in conflict with City code. These physical devices may
be located in areas where the parking stall abuts a wall or wherever else deemed to be
feasible. This device shall be shown on building permit plans, subject to the review and
approval of the Zoning Administrator and the Director of Public Works, or their
designees. The covenants, conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs) for the residential portion
of the project shall not preclude the use of such physical device for bicycle parking, provided
that access to required parking spaces is maintained, and there is no conflict with
applicable City Codes. (PLANNING/CITY ATTORNEY)
48. PARKING MANAGEMENT PLAN AND PARKING OPERATIONS PLAN – All future
building permit plans and operations at the project site shall comply with the “Bay Meadows
II Parking Management Plan” dated August 19, 2008 prepared by Kimley-Horn and
Associates, Inc. Modifications to this document shall be submitted for the review and
approval of the Director of Public Works and Zoning Administrator or their designees. Each
Block developer shall comply with the applicable provisions of the Parking Management
Plan through CC&Rs to be recorded against the property. Additionally, the master
association for Bay Meadows Phase II shall work with the City’s Public Works Department
to review street parking utilization and make adjustments if necessary.  Coordination of street
parking shall be based on Parking Management Plan and other applicable regulations and
policies, and shall be subject to review of the Public Works Director or his designee.
(PLANNING, PUBLIC WORKS)
49. FINISH FLOOR ELEVATION - Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval #27,
finish floor elevations for all habitable structures shall be at an elevation of 104.7 feet or
greater (San Mateo Datum), or other flood protection measures shall be incorporated into the
design.  These improvements, if necessary, shall be shown on the project construction
drawings. (PUBLIC WORKS, BUILDING) Specific Plan Amendment COA #27
50. *GEOTECHNICAL INVESTIGATIONS: The applicant shall conduct detailed geotechnical 
investigations for each of the structures proposed at the site.  Subsurface conditions should be 
explored and laboratory tests conducted on selected soil samples to establish strength 
parameters for foundation design and perimeter slope stability.  Based on recommendations 
developed for foundation support for each component of project construction, the applicant 
shall design building foundations to resist the potential differential movements and, if 
required, employ ground improvement techniques such as over-excavation and 
recompaction, pressure grouting and soil mixing.

--- page 88 ---
Conditions of Approval 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 16 of 40
Where determined necessary by the City and recommended by the Civil Engineer responsible 
for geotechnical services, the applicant shall also employ engineering methods to minimize 
the potential for damage from liquefaction by reworking the existing fills within areas of new 
construction.  The existing fills would be removed and reworked where buildings are 
supported on the fill materials.  The depth and extent of fill removal will vary depending 
primarily on the nature of the structural loads of each proposed building.  The removed fill 
shall later be used as new fill provided it is compacted to engineering standards.  The actual 
extent of fill removal shall be determined in the field by the Civil Engineer responsible for 
geotechnical services. 
The project sponsor shall engineer project buildings to minimize risks posed by expansive 
soils to a less than significant level.  Engineering methods available to designers include: soil 
treatment, mat foundations, pile foundations, and removal of expansive soil.  Selection of the 
specific mitigation would be dependent on factors specific to the proposed building and the 
soils on which it would be located.  A determination that appropriate engineering has been 
conducted shall occur as part of the San Mateo Building Department’s building permit 
process, which would require the project sponsor to submit site-specific soil and geotechnical 
reports as a condition of approval. (BUILDING, PUBLIC WORKS)  Mitigation Measure 
Geology-BM3 & -BM5 
51. * COMPLIANCE WITH GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER RECOMMENDATIONS – For 
each building, the project Geotechnical Engineer, who shall be professionally licensed with a 
G.E. or P.E. certificate furnished by the State of California), shall review the construction 
plans for conformance with the recommendations found within his project Geotechnical 
report, and addendums, and shall provide a letter to the Building Official and City Engineer 
stating that the reviewed plans are indeed in conformance. Prior to construction, a letter shall 
be submitted by the applicant to the City Engineer, confirming the firm who shall act as the 
“Geotechnical Engineer of Record” for the building.  The Geotechnical Engineer of Record 
shall be professionally licensed with a G.E. or P.E. certificate furnished by the State of 
California.  The Geotechnical Engineer of Record shall monitor on-site grading, excavation, 
and foundation construction in compliance with those recommendations.  At the conclusion 
of each phase, the Geotechnical Engineer of Record shall submit a written verification to the 
Building Official and City Engineer stating that work has been completed in conformance 
with the recommendations found within the project Geotechnical report.  If modifications to 
the final project Geotechnical report are necessary, the Geotechnical Engineer of Record 
shall submit a written report to the City’s Building Official and City Engineer for approval 
prior to completion of the grading, excavation or roadway construction.  The Geotechnical 
Engineer of Record shall also comply with all of the requirements as specified by these 
conditions of approval. (PUBLIC WORKS, BUILDING) *Mitigation Measures Geology – 
BM6 
52. * OBLIGATIONS BY OTHER AGENCIES – Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of 
Approval #46, the owner is hereby informed that obligations are required by outside agencies 
including Cal Water and San Mateo-Foster City School District (SMFCSD) pursuant to the 
MMRP approved for the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment. (PUBLIC 
WORKS, BUILDING) * Mitigation Measures Utilities – BM1b, and Public Services – 
BM6b; Specific Plan Amendment COA #46

--- page 89 ---
Conditions of Approval 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 17 of 40
53. ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE - The applicant must obtain
an encroachment permit, posting the required bonds and insurance, for all work to be done in
the City's right-of-way.  This encroachment permit shall be obtained prior to the issuance of a
foundation building permit and prior to any work being done in the City's right-of-way.  The
applicant shall have street improvement plans prepared for all work in the public
right-of-way by a licensed civil engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp shall appear on the
plans. Prior to issuance of the encroachment permit, the applicant shall submit any applicable
pedestrian or traffic detour plans for any lane or sidewalk closures.  The detour plan shall
comply with Part 6, Temporary Traffic Control, of the State of California Manual of Uniform
Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), 2003, and standard construction practices.  Final
construction plans and specifications shall be approved by the City Engineer, and released for
construction, prior to the issuance of the encroachment permit.  Right of way improvements
shall include, at a minimum, the following items:
a) SIDEWALK, CURB AND GUTTER – The applicant shall construct new sidewalk,
curb and gutter per City Standard Drawing 3-1-141, including a maximum 2%
sidewalk cross-slope, on both sides of all new streets within the Bay Meadows Phase
II development area as shown on the Planning Commission approved Site
Development Permit plans.  The applicant shall remove and replace any sidewalk,
curb and gutter along the project boundaries that, at the discretion of the Public
Works Inspector, is damaged now or during construction of this project.  Sidewalk,
curb and gutter repair shall match existing color, texture and design.  Scoring along
all public sidewalks shall comply with City Standards unless otherwise approved by
the City Engineer.  Unless approved by the Public Works Department, all utility
boxes and poles shall be installed in adjacent planter strips and outside of the new
sidewalk area.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
b) SEWER LATERAL - The applicant shall install as a minimum a six inch (6”)
sanitary sewer lateral stub-outs to the property line as shown on the approved plan.
The installation shall be done in accordance with City Standard Drawing 3-1-101
including a 6" property line clean-out.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
c) STREET MARKINGS - The applicant shall install necessary street markings of a
material and design approved by the City Engineer, and replace any that are damaged
during construction. These include but are not limited to all pavement markings,
painted curbs and handicap markings.  All permanent pavement markings shall be
thermoplastic.  Color and location of painted curbs shall be shown on the plans and
subject to approval by the City Engineer.  Any existing painted curb or pavement
markings no longer required shall be removed by grinding if thermoplastic, sand
blasting if in paint. Once installed, the applicant shall coordinate with City crews to
mark any red curb within the proposed City right-of-way with a City seal.  To provide
adequate sight distance, 10 feet of red curbing shall be installed on either side of all
project driveways.  The driveways shall be evaluated prior to occupancy of the site
buildings for any additional red curbing as deemed necessary by the Director of
Public Works or his designee.  (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 90 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 18 of 40
 
54. RECYCLING – Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval #31, development in 
the Specific Plan Amendment area shall strive to achieve a 50 percent waste diversion rate in 
accordance with identified City standards and regulations upon the establishment of 
measurement and monitoring standards by the Public Works Department and as approved by 
the project Waste Management Plan.  (PUBLIC WORKS) Specific Plan Amendment COA 
#31 
 
55. RECYCLING COLLECTION AREA REQUIREMENTS – The applicant shall be required 
to construct and maintain recycling collection areas on RES 4 and RES 6 in accordance with 
City regulations and Standards (Municipal Code §27.86).  The areas and dimensions for 
recycling collection areas shall meet the standards established by the local recycling 
collection provider. The design, location, size, and number of recycling collection areas 
approved as part of this planning application shall remain as shown on the approved site and 
building floor plans as long as the use occupies the property, unless an alternate location is 
authorized by the Chief of Planning and/or Zoning Administrator.  (PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
56. WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN – All future building permit plans and operations at the 
project site shall comply with the “Planned Waste and Recycling Systems for the Bay 
Meadows Phase II” dated February 26, 2008 prepared by American Trash Management. In 
the event of discrepancies between the Plan text and Appendix text, the Plan text shall 
govern. Modifications to this document shall be submitted for the review and approval of the 
Director of Public Works or his designee. All building permit submittals shall include a letter 
documenting how the proposed waste disposal systems and rooms inside the buildings 
comply with the approved Plan. Applicant will continue to work in good faith with the City 
to continue to develop and implement this program.  (PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
 
57. TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (TMA) – Per Specific Plan 
Amendment Condition of Approval #42, a TMA has been established for projects in the 
Corridor Plan area.  All development within the Specific Plan Amendment area is required to 
participate in the TMA and fund their fair share of the cost of the TMA.  The developer 
funding obligation shall be consistent with the adopted Transportation Management Agency 
by-laws. This requirement shall be stated in the individual project CC&R documents.  The 
TMA will develop TDM measures and make them available to both existing and future 
development within the Corridor Plan area, including Bay Meadows.  The applicant shall 
contribute $50,000.00 to defray start-up costs for the TMA.  This payment shall be made by 
the applicant within three months of the approval of the Site Plan and Architectural Review 
(SPAR) #2.  Any remaining funds from this contribution following the formation of the 
TMA, adoption of the TMA by-laws and approval the TMA’s non-profit status will go 
towards future developer payments for participation in the TMA. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
Specific Plan Amendment COA #42 
 
58. *DEMAND SIDE WATER MANAGEMENT PRACTICES – Each building permit 
submittal shall provide evidence of compliance with the Demand Side Water Management 
Plan.  (PUBLIC WORKS)  *Mitigation Measure Utilities BM1A

--- page 91 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 19 of 40
 
59. INTERIOR FLOOR DRAINS – All interior floor drains shall be plumbed to connect to the 
sanitary sewer system, and shall not be connected to stormwater collection system per the 
County’s C.3 Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program requirements. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
60. STORM DRAIN INLETS AND WATERWAYS - Per the County’s C.3 Stormwater 
Pollution Prevention Program requirements, the applicant shall mark with the words “No 
Dumping! Flows to Bay,” or equivalent, using methods approved by the City standards on all 
storm inlets surrounding and within the project parcel.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
61. UNDERGROUND PARKING GARAGE DRAINAGE - The applicant shall design a system 
that discharges, by gravity, treated water that is pumped from the underground parking 
garage sump pump to the face of curb along the project frontage for RES 4 and RES 6.  The 
system shall also prevent any nuisance or ground water from collecting or continually 
running in the gutter.  Said system shall be approved by the City Engineer prior to issuance 
of any building permits.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
62. PARKING AND CIRCULATION - The applicant shall submit plans for all required 
off-street parking lots showing proper grading, drainage, ramps profile, and parking 
dimensions stall, both confined and non-confined, in conformance with City parking 
standards.  Underground parking ramp widths are permitted at 22’ wall-to-wall dimension, 
with approval of the Director of Public Works or his designee, but preferred at 24’ wall-to-
wall.  Any existing underground parking ramps on the SPAR plans that are less than 22’ shall 
be redesigned for the building permit plan to provide a 22’ wall-to-wall dimension, with any 
impact to parking minimized.  Two (2) Ten (10’) foot wide garage doors may be used to 
screen the garage or ramp openings to the approval of the Director of Public Works or his 
designee. These plans shall be subject to review and approval of the Director of Public 
Works and the Zoning Administrator, or their designees.  All driveway ramps shall provide a 
minimum of 8 feet 2 inches vertical clearance.  No head-in parking at the end of any dead-
end parking aisle will be permitted, except as agreed to by the Director of Public Works or 
his designee.  Internal loading zones shall provide a minimum vertical clearance of fourteen 
(14’) feet.  All on-site two-way drive aisles or driveways shall be a minimum width of 22’-
0”.  For RES 5, 8 and 9 blocks, all two-way driveway approaches shall be a minimum of 24’-
0” measured at the transition between the driveway and the back-of-walk.  The transition 
between the driveway approach and curb cut shall have a maximum curb radius of 12’ on 
each side.  All curb cuts serving a two-way drive aisle shall have a maximum width of 25 
feet.  Driveway widths for Blocks RES 9a, 9b shall be between 24 ft – 28 ft unless otherwise 
approved by the Director of Public Works or his designee.  The plans shall be approved by 
the Director of Public Works or his designee prior to the issuance of the first building permit 
on any Block.  (PUBLIC WORKS, PLANNING)  (still need PW to approve third to last 
sentence.) 
 
63. TRIANGULAR AREA OF VISIBILITY – Landscaping and permanent structures located 
within the 10' triangular area of visibility at the driveway, and 45’ triangular area of visibility 
at any uncontrolled intersection, shall have a minimum vertical clearance of 7', and/or be less 
than 3' in height.  This includes all PG&E above ground structures and other utility facilities.  
(PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 92 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 20 of 40
 
64. CHARGES FOR PUBLIC WORKS SERVICES - Prior to plan checking, the applicant shall 
be required to deposit with the City, funds to pay for, at the adopted rate, all engineering, 
inspection and survey services that may be required during plan check and construction of 
the project.  The amount of the deposit shall be $15,000.00 per development block or sub-
block.  Public Works plan checking of the plans submitted with the building permit plans 
cannot proceed until the deposit is submitted.  The applicant shall be required to increase the 
deposit, or be billed monthly at the discretion of the City, for any costs in excess of the 
deposit.  If billed monthly, invoices shall not become delinquent (must be paid within 30 
days of receipt).  Prior to final occupancy the bill shall be paid in full.  The City will refund 
any portion of the deposit not utilized.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
65. ADDRESS PLAN - The applicant shall submit to the Public Works Department a final 
address plan.  The plan shall be substantially in conformance with the address plan approved 
with the planning application.  Said submittal shall be approved by the City Engineer prior to 
the submittal of plans for the Foundation (or first) Building Permit for each block or portion 
of block with a building permit.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
66. *STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PERMIT - Per Specific Plan Amendment 
Condition of Approval #48, the owner must obtain a Stormwater Pollution Prevention 
(STOPPP) Construction permit for each phase of the development or when the disturbance of 
the area is greater than the amount specified by the Regional Water Quality Control Board 
(RWQCB), paying the required fees and posting the required cash deposit, for all work 
associated with the stormwater pollution prevention program (SMMC 7.39). In addition, the 
project owner shall file a Notice of Intent (NOI) with the State Water Resources Control 
Board to obtain coverage under the State General Construction Activity NPDES Permit.  
Proof of permit, with storm water pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) must be provided to 
the Public Works Department prior to issuance of the STOPPP Construction permit.  The fee 
amount shall be based upon the City Council resolution in effect at the time the building 
permit application is made.  The permit shall be issued prior to issuance of the first building 
permit. 
 
 
A separate SWPPP and NOI shall be provided for the drainage network connecting to the 
community park drainage facility and its subsequent discharge to the Borel Creek (19th 
Avenue Channel).  Additional SWPPP and NOI shall be provided for each development 
phase that connects to the storm drainage network. 
 
 
The Owner shall follow all Regional Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB) regulations 
and procedures for discharging waste water, including dewatering discharge, as detailed in 
the project’s SWPPP.  In addition, the Owner shall follow all Best Management Practices 
(BMP) for subsurface excavation, drilling and construction included in the SWPPP.  
(PUBLIC WORKS) *Mitigation Measures Hydrology and Water Quality -BM2, BM3, 
BM4, BM8; Specific Plan Amendment COA #48

--- page 93 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 21 of 40
 
67. * UNDERGROUND UTILITIES – All new utilities shall be installed underground in 
accordance with City of San Mateo Municipal Code 26.32.020. All public utilities shall be 
installed within the proposed public right-of-way or a public utility easement.  Joint utility 
trenches shall be run along the lip of gutter unless otherwise approved by the Director of 
Public Works or his designee.  No utilities shall be permitted to run longitudinally under any 
landscape median, island or sidewalk unless otherwise authorized by the Public Works 
Director, or his designee.  Gravity utility lines shall be constructed from the low point in an 
upstream direction.  
 
Underground utilities shall be placed in sandy fill materials or appropriately treated clayey 
fill materials.  Treatment of clayey soils could include using lime, lime-cement, or other 
admixtures.  If it is impractical to place utilities within less corrosive materials, the utilities 
would need to be composed of corrosion resistant material or protected with appropriate 
coatings.  A corrosion specialist should be consulted for the design and construction of 
utilities, and other structures as necessary. The implementation of this condition shall occur 
prior to issuance of each building permit for each phase and monitored by the Public Works 
Department. (PUBLIC WORKS) *Mitigation Measures Geology – BM7 
 
68. DRAINAGE - The requirements for storm and sanitary sewer drainage improvements to be 
constructed within the project site Blocks shall be as follows: 
 
A. 
STORM – Based on the approved Storm Drainage Design Criteria on file with the 
City dated March, 2005 and as further detailed therein, and based on the final 
project drainage study dated February 2008, all storm runoff drainage shall be 
directed to drainage inlets with a minimum grade of one (1) per cent over 
landscaped areas and one-half (1/2) per cent over concrete paved areas and 1% 
over asphalt paved areas unless otherwise approved by the Public Works Director, 
or his designee.  In addition, discharge and design requirements must conform to 
any non-point source permit issued by the Regional Water Quality Control Board 
(RWQCB).  
 
 
The use of passive stormwater treatment features (e.g. swales in street 
medians) shall be considered throughout the project and implemented where 
feasible and effective. 
 
 
The construction of the project stormwater system shall be phased with 
project build-out.  The Owner may utilize any combination of existing, temporary 
and permanent stormwater facilities so long as the Owner demonstrates to the 
satisfaction of the City, using the Hydraulic Model, before the City issues any 
permits associated with any given SPAR, that the development contemplated by 
that SPAR application shall not cause the project stormwater to exceed the pre-
construction peak stormwater discharge rate (as determined by the Hydraulic 
Model) and based on the approved project drainage study. 
 
 
The City reserves the right to add or modify any storm drainage condition 
based on NPDES Board requirements at the time of the individual project SPAR 
applications.

--- page 94 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 22 of 40
 
 
B. 
* SANITARY – Based on the approved Sanitary Sewer System Design Criteria 
on file with the City dated March, 2005 and as further detailed therein and any 
approved supplemental study, and based on the final project sewer study dated 
February 2008, all sanitary sewer pipes shall be seamless to the last property 
cleanout to prevent rainfall dependent inflow and infiltration (RDI/I) and root 
intrusion.  The sanitary sewer lines shall be sloped such as to achieve a minimum 
pipe flow velocity of V=2.0 feet per second (fps) when flowing 1/2 full under 
gravity flow conditions.  The sanitary sewer lines shall be constructed upstream 
from site low point 
 
 
The Owner shall be responsible for payment of the Waste Water 
Treatment Plant Impact Fee.  This condition shall be implemented prior to 
issuance of building permit for each phase and monitored by the Public Works 
Department. (PUBLIC WORKS) *Mitigation Measures Utilities-BM2a, BM2b 
 
69. FIRE SPRINKLER DESIGN- The final building permit plans shall show that the Fire 
Sprinkler Systems throughout the residential buildings in RES 4 & 6 shall be designed to a 
monitored NFPA 13 & NFPA 14 standard.  Each building shall be provided with its own 
individual main shutoff valve.  For multi story buildings, floor control valves, water flow 
switches and Class 1 hose connections shall be provided.  The buildings in RES 5, 8, 9b shall 
be designed to a modified NFPA 13-R standard with no exceptions allowed, including attic 
coverage.  The buildings in RES 9a shall be designed to a modified NFPA 13-D standard 
with no exceptions allowed.  Separate application and permits are required to be obtained by 
a contractor licensed to perform such work.  (FIRE). 
 
70. FIRE SPRINKLER RISER AND FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION (FDC) – 
Residential blocks RES 4 and RES 6 shall require dedicated fire services with a 4 way FDC. 
The FDC shall be located on Kyne Street in the vicinity of a fire hydrant.  Res 5, 8 and 9b 
shall require a fire sprinkler riser with check valve and a FDC for each building.  The design 
of the fire department connections shall be integrated into the design of the building and the 
fire sprinkler risers shall be screened with landscaping.  The final FDCs, fire sprinkler risers 
and landscaping shall be shown on the final building permit plans, which shall be subject to 
the review and approval of the Zoning Administrator and Fire Marshall.  (PLANNING, 
FIRE) 
 
71. FIRE HYDRANTS AND TOWNHOME FIRE SUPRESSION SPRINKLERS – Fire 
hydrants located in residential blocks RES 5, 8, and 9 shall be looped for maximum water 
flow.  The fire suppression sprinkler systems for each townhome building (in RES 5, 8, and 
9b) will be tied into this fire hydrant looped system.  (FIRE) 
 
72. *ON-SITE WATER STORAGE FOR FIRE PROTECTION – Per Specific Plan Amendment 
Condition of Approval #59, the project sponsor (land developer) shall provide a minimum of 
600,000 gallons of non-pressurized on-site water storage.  The implementation of this 
condition is on-going and shall be monitored by the Public Works Department and Fire 
Department.  The water storage facility shall be capable of being the sole source or 
supplementation to the fire hydrant system.

--- page 95 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 23 of 40
 
 
If the project water system is not completed before commencement of building (vertical) 
construction within any individual development Block, a temporary fire hydrant system will 
be utilized. The temporary system shall meet the requirements of the Fire Code to the 
approval of the City of San Mateo Fire Department. The minimum system requirement is a 
minimum fire flow of 1500 gpm for 2 hours at 20 psi.  
 
All fire hydrants on the project site shall be a Rich Corona, Jones, or one of comparable 
quality with two 2 1/2 inch and one 4 1/2 inch outlets with national standard threads.  Each 
hydrant shall be capable of providing a minimum fire flow of 1,500 gpm at 20 psi residual 
pressure.  Water supply for fire protection is required to be installed in accordance with the 
San Mateo Fire Department and the California Water Service specifications.  The water 
supply shall be installed and inspected by the California Water Service and the San Mateo 
Fire Department.  The water supply shall be operable PRIOR to any combustible 
construction materials being placed on the site.  Staged construction should insure that the 
necessary water supply is maintained from stage to stage in the construction planning.  
(PUBLIC WORKS, FIRE)  *Mitigation Measure Public Services – BM2a; Specific Plan 
Amendment COA #59 
 
73. ROOF HATCHES- Required roof hatches shown on the individual RES 4 and RES 6 
building permit plans shall be a minimum size of 4 feet by 6 feet. (FIRE) 
 
74. TRUCK TURNING RADIUS- The final building permit plans for SPAR 2 shall show the 
required Fire Truck Turning Radius, with the resource for design and function to be approved 
by the Fire Marshal’s Office.  The “wall-to-wall” turning radius maximum dimension shall 
be 39 ft., wheel-base 255.50”, to accommodate the vehicle size of responding Truck 
Companies. (FIRE) 
 
75. NEIGHBORHOOD PARK AND GARDEN WALK - There shall be a Fire Truck Access to 
RES 4 through the Neighborhood Park by way of a 15 ft wide lane from Baze Road through 
the center of the Park, increasing to 20 ft wide lane after the picnic area, and an additional 10 
ft wide triangular area on each side at the end of the Fire Truck Access adjacent to the RES 4 
building, as shown on the approved Neighborhood Park plans.  Trees shall not obstruct the 
passage of Trucks by virtue of the expanse of branches and leaves up to a height of 14 ft, and 
wherever the angle of the Truck’s extended ladder would be compromised.  Bollards similar 
in design to those specified for the View Corridor (sheet L2.1.1) shall be provided across the 
entry to the Neighborhood Park Central Fire Lane. (FIRE, PARKS AND RECREATION)

--- page 96 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 24 of 40
 
76. FIRE DEPARTMENT LADDER TRUCK ACCESS - The final design for the Fire Access 
Way to be provided through the Neighborhood Park, in Block RES 4, shall be provided with 
a thick structural section based on the weight of the Ladder Truck specified by the Fire 
Department.  Structural calculations prepared by an appropriate licensed engineer shall be 
submitted with the construction plans and shall meet the approval of the Fire Chief and 
Public Works Director or his designee.  The thickened structural section in paved areas shall 
extend at least 3’ where possible beyond the dashed limits shown on the approved SPAR 
plans as a safety zone in case trucks travel beyond these exact limits.  Approved removable 
bollards shall be provided at 5’ on center at the entry to the park off of Baze Road to prevent 
unauthorized vehicles from entering the park. The final surface and edge treatment for the 
Fire Access Way within the Garden Walk portion of the park and within the adjacent planned 
planting areas shall be designed to meet pedestrian safety while also being compatible with 
the design intent of the Garden Walk and to maintain the originally proposed limits of the 
planting areas where possible through a plantable reinforced cellular treatment that meet the 
required structural loads. The final design for the Fire Access Way shall meet the approval of 
the Departments of Parks and Recreation, Fire and Public Works.  (FIRE, PARKS AND 
RECREATION, PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
77. EMERGENCY VEHICLE ACCESS FOR RES 5, 8, AND 9 BLOCKS - An all weather 
access roadway shall be provided and maintained to the buildings.  Computer renderings on 
plans or by attachment are required to show fire apparatus turn-around and access 
compliance for RES 5, 8 and RES 9.  Turn-arounds conforming to hammerhead are required, 
with no parking in front of garage entrance/exit systems.  The Emergency Vehicle Access 
shall be an all-weather driving surface capable of supporting a vehicle-laden weight of sixty-
eight thousand (68,000) pounds and be not less than twenty (20) feet in unobstructed width. 
Signage shall be installed indicating that the access roadway is a designated Fire Lane. If 
security gates are desired at any entrance to any part of the project the gates shall be provided 
with a Fire Department approved Key Switch or key box to allow Fire Department access.  
The minimum width of the gates shall be (15’) feet clear opening width.  Contact the Bureau 
of Fire Protection and Life Safety for specific requirements related to signage, key boxes and 
gates. (FIRE) 
 
78. RESIDENTIAL BUILDING LADDERS – The final building permit plans shall demonstrate 
that there is adequate access to all building roofs in blocks RES 4, 6, and 9b.  Where: 
 
A. Roof elevations are different by 3 feet or more, and/or 
B. The roof slope is at or exceeds 1 inch rise over 4 inch run, then 
 
Fixed interconnected ladder and footpath systems to the roof top shall be provided in order to 
allow the Fire Department adequate access to the roof.  The design of these ladders is subject 
to the review and approval of the Fire Marshall.  (FIRE) 
 
 
79. FINAL RED STRIPING - The final building permit plans shall incorporate the red striping 
location on the “Red Striping Map” plan prepared by ARUP dated September 18, 2008, as 
approved by the San Mateo Fire Department. Any proposed deviations shall be subject to the 
review and approval of the Fire Marshall.  (FIRE).

--- page 97 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 25 of 40
 
 
80. FIRE LANE DESIGNATION – Fire lanes are required to be installed in interior access 
roadways in locations where vehicle parking would encroach on the twenty (20’) feet clear 
width required for Fire Department Vehicle access.  Compliance of the Fire Lane striping 
with Section 22500.1 of the California Vehicle Code is required, and shall be posted as 
stipulated in the CVC.  The use of approved signs or red curb delineation shall appear as a 
notation on striping plans, and be reviewed and approved by the Bureau of Fire Protection 
and Life Safety. (FIRE) 
 
81. ROOF ACCESS POINTS – For the residential buildings in RES 4 and RES 6, one stair and 
one roof hatch shall be shown on building permit plans to allow the Fire Department 
adequate access to the roof. (FIRE) 
 
82. PEDESTRIAN GATES TO RESIDENTIAL COURTYARDS – All pedestrian gates to the 
residential courtyards on Blocks RES 4 & RES 6 shall be a minimum width of four (4) feet. 
Install Knox key box(s) on all gates to allow for Emergency Services/Fire Department 
accesses.  Contact the Bureau of Fire Protection and Life Safety for specific requirements 
and location approval related to signage, key boxes and gates.  Provide keys as required. 
(FIRE) 
 
83. KEY SWITCH FOR SECURITY GATES – If security gates are desired at any entrance to 
the project, specifically in the underground garage in RES 4 and RES 6, the gates shall be 
provided with a Fire Department approved Key Switch or Lock to allow Fire Department 
access.  The minimum width of the gates shall be twenty (20’) feet clear opening width.  
Contact the Bureau of Fire Protection and Life Safety for specific requirements.  (FIRE) 
 
84. FIRE ASSEMBLIES AND APPLIANCES - The final location of private hydrant locations, 
fire service backflow preventers, fire department connections and the juncture of fire service 
lines to the water main grid shall be documented on the Fire Sprinkler plans. (FIRE) 
 
85. ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTIONS – The final building permit plans for RES 5, 8, and 9b 
shall demonstrate that the metal awnings and other horizontal projections located below any 
bedroom rescue windows are to be engineered to support 750 lbs in weight.  Projections are 
to be dimensioned so not to interfere with Fire Department ground ladder operations. The 
applicant may provide diagrams to show awning projections and provide adequate ladder 
clearance.  Proposed awnings that cannot be shown to meet Fire Department requirements 
shall be removed from the final building permit plans.  The design of proposed awnings shall 
subject to the review and approval of the Zoning Administrator and Fire Marshall.    
(PLANNING, FIRE) 
 
86. SECURITY KEY-LOCK BOX – It is required that this project install approved Key-Lock 
Boxes on all buildings with common areas or utility rooms to allow for Emergency 
Services/Fire Department accesses.  Contact the Bureau of Fire Protection and Life Safety for 
specific requirements and location approval.  (FIRE).

--- page 98 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 26 of 40
 
87. AUTOMATIC FIRE-EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM – All residential buildings in SPAR #2 
residential Blocks (specifically RES 4, 5, 6, 8, and 9b) will be required to be provided with 
monitored Automatic Fire-Extinguishing System.  Each building shall be provided with its 
own individual main shutoff valve.  For multi-story buildings in RES 4 and RES 6, floor 
control valves and flow switches with class I hose connections shall be provided.  Separate 
application and permits are required to be obtained by a contractor licensed to perform such 
work.  (FIRE) 
 
88. FIRE ALARM SYSTEM – Residential buildings in RES 4, 5, 6, 8, and 9b will be required to 
be provided with a Fire Alarm System in accordance with the California Fire Code Section 
1007.  Separate application and permits are required to be obtained by a contractor licensed 
to perform such work.  (FIRE) 
 
89. ELECTRICAL POWER DISCONNECTION MEANS – A key switch shall be provided to 
disconnect electrical power by Fire Department personnel to RES 4 and RES 6.  An electrical 
shunt switch may be required, if the main service disconnect is not readily accessible as 
defined by the National Electrical Code.  Contact the Bureau of Fire Protection and Life 
Safety to coordinate the exact location for such devices.  (FIRE)  
 
90. PARKING GARAGES - The police department, in the interest of public safety, requires that 
cameras be placed at the vehicular entrances and exits to all parking garages in an effort to 
prevent auto burglaries, auto theft, and other associated crimes that tend to take place in 
enclosed garages. The system shall capture the front and rear of all entering and exiting 
vehicles that use the garage.  The picture quality shall be sufficient to identify the 
make/model of vehicle, clearly read a front/rear license plate, and obtain clear facial 
recognition through the front windshield.  The system does not need to be monitored but the 
captured video material shall be accessible to investigating police personnel through some 
form of facility management during regular business hours.  The information shall be 
maintained and retrievable for seven days.  
 
Parking garages serving residential uses in RES 4 and RES 6 shall be provided with 
electrically operated closures to allow passage of motor vehicles, except that required visitor 
parking shall have unrestricted access.  The closures, whether overhead, sliding or swinging 
shall be provided with reopening devices which will function to stop and reopen the closure 
in case the closure is obstructed when closing.  Openings into the garage which are not for 
vehicular or human passage shall be provided with security grilles or screens.  Digital 
keypads shall be provided to allow for entry by services and emergency services vehicles.  
Exterior doors or gates providing access to the secure areas of the parking garage shall 
remain locked at all times, and shall only be accessible through the use of keys furnished to 
the building residents.   
 
Additional requirements include the following:  
a) Parking spaces should not be numbered to coincide with interior unit numbers. 
b) Digital access pads shall be installed at the primary entrance location of all 
parking garages.  These pads should allow emergency vehicle access into the 
garages at all times.  The pads should be programmed with City input and then 
administratively distributed to the police and fire departments.  These access pads

--- page 99 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 27 of 40
 
should be installed in consistent locations throughout the project.  Access out of 
garage - pedestrian access doors should be master key controlled for tenants and 
be equipped with self-closing devices.  
c) All storage, maintenance, and trash rooms within parking garages shall have 
doors which cannot be locked from the inside, and that close and lock quickly and 
automatically upon exit. (POLICE) 
 
91. EXTERIOR LIGHTING - The lighting must conform with the City's Security Standards 
Ordinance in effect at the time of building permit issuance. A lighting plan shall be submitted 
with the building permit plans for each building showing type, height and location of fixtures 
and photometrics indicating compliance with the City’s Security Standards Ordinance in 
effect at the time of each building permit submittal. Additional requirements for lighting 
include:  
a) Lighting during the day can include natural light to achieve required levels. 
b) Lighting shall be photocell controlled. 
c) The address number of every building shall be illuminated during the hours of 
darkness so that it shall be easily visible from the street. 
d) Metal halide, or other bright white light source, shall be utilized.  No dark areas 
should exist inside any parking structure. 
e) Because of the enclosed nature of secured parking area(s), the lighting 
requirement shall apply during daylight hours as well to those parking spaces 
covered by the building structure. 
f) Vandal resistant covers shall be required to protect light sources.  
g) Monument signs shall be well lighted during hours of darkness. 
h) All entry/exit doors shall be adequately illuminated at all hours in order to: 
i. Make any person on the premises clearly visible. 
 
ii. Provide adequate illumination for persons entering and exiting the 
building. (POLICE)  
 
92. NEIGHBORHOOD PARK ADDRESS: The building permit plans for the Neighborhood 
Park shall include the location of a sign with a numerical street address clearly visible from 
the public street.  (POLICE) 
 
93. ADDITIONAL  SECURITY ISSUES: All building permit plans shall include details 
demonstrating compliance with the following security issues:  
a) The stairwell doors should employ as much transparent material as the fire code 
allows.  
b) Clearly post entry points onto the site and into the garage per 22658(a) CVC for 
inappropriate vehicle issues. (POLICE) 
 
94. SECURITY STANDARDS - Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval #53, the 
applicant shall comply with the City’s Security Standards Ordinance in effect at the time of 
each building permit submittal.  (POLICE) Specific Plan Amendment COA #53

--- page 100 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 28 of 40
 
95. NEIGHBORHOOD PARK CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS – Prior to undertaking 
construction of the Neighborhood Park, complete construction documents for the landscaping 
and improvements to the Neighborhood Park as required by the Development Agreement and 
these conditions of approval, shall be submitted by the applicant for review and approved by 
the Parks and Recreation Department as part of the building permit submittal documents.  
These documents shall be prepared by qualified licensed professionals that most closely 
represent the specific design disciplines that are involved, shall reflect and support the design 
approved by planning application and shall include specific technical design information for 
proper construction and efficient maintenance.  These documents shall include scaled plans 
for finished grading and drainage, layout of all hardscape and site furnishings, references to 
details, electrical, irrigation, and planting; detail drawings of design components; and 
specifications regarding products and materials, workmanship and quality control.  All 
irrigation for areas to be maintained by the City shall be designed to conform to the City’s 
Irrigation Standards.   (PARKS AND RECREATION) 
 
96. FINANCIAL SECURITIES FOR NEIGHBORHOOD PARK IMPROVEMENTS – Prior to 
the beginning of construction of the Neighborhood Park, the applicant shall submit a cost 
estimate and financial securities in a form and amount satisfactory to the Department of 
Parks and Recreation and City Attorney sufficient to ensure the implementation of all 
approved Neighborhood Park improvements in accordance with the conditions of approval. 
Financial securities of the Neighborhood Park shall be released upon the acceptance and 
dedication of the entire Neighborhood Park unless otherwise approved by the Director of 
Parks and Recreation. (PARK AND RECREATION) 
 
97. RES 4 EXITS FACING THE NEIGHBORHOOD PARK - To both better control public 
access into the Neighborhood Park during the hours that the park is closed (10:00 p.m. to 
6:00 a.m.), and to maintain the RES 4 exists that face the “Garden Walk” area as described in 
the Neighborhood Park plans, the applicant shall: 
 
A. Dedicate a public access easement to the City. 
B. Reflect such ownership and easement dedication on the final map. 
C. Reinforce the edge definition between the park and the public Garden Walk access 
easement (except where the emergency fire access easement is delineated) by 
providing a 3’-6” high fence steel picket fence that meets the design quality of such 
fences provided within recent public parks and the approval of the Director of Parks 
and Recreation. 
 
 
And, the Bay Meadows Phase II Master Association shall own and maintain the Garden 
Walk area. (PARKS AND RECREATION, CITY ATTORNEY) 
 
98. NEIGHBORHOOD PARK IMPROVEMENTS - The applicant shall develop the 
Neighborhood Park as conceptually shown in the SPAR plans.  Final selection of hardscape 
surfaces, site furnishing, and plantings shall be subject to the approval of the Director of 
Parks and Recreation.  Park signage and lighting within the park shall be provided and 
designed to the approval of the Director of Parks and Recreation. All grading and drainage 
improvements shall conform to the latest edition of Landscape Architectural Graphic 
Standards.  (PARKS AND RECREATION)

--- page 101 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 29 of 40
 
 
99. NEIGHBORHOOD PARK RESTROOM:  The applicant shall design and provide a restroom 
building within the Neighborhood park including all needed utilities concurrent with the 
construction of the Neighborhood Park.  The restroom shall be designed to meet or exceed 
the standard of quality and quantity of components that have been designed for the most 
recent restrooms within the City’s neighborhood parks and shall meet the approval of the 
Director of Parks and Recreation.  (PARKS AND RECREATION) 
 
 
The following conditions shall be addressed on the construction plans submitted for 
BUILDING SUPERSTRUCTURE PERMIT and/or shall be met prior to the issuance of 
said permit. 
 
100. 
SANITARY SEWER CAPACITY CHARGE – The applicant of each Block shall pay a 
fee proportional to the project’s share of the increase amount of sewage generated by the 
project.  The fee will be based upon the City Council resolution in effect at the time the 
building permit application is made.  The final fee shall be calculated from the final plans 
using the rate schedule in effect at the time of the building permit application. The fee 
associated with commercial development is based on new fixture units being installed in each 
building.  The applicant shall submit a fixture unit credit allocation plan, describing the 
distribution of the existing site fixture unit credits, with the site demolition plan to the 
approval of the Public Works Director or his designee.  Individual block fee amounts are 
available from the Public Works Department upon request.  The fee shall be paid prior to 
issuance of the superstructure building permit.  (PUBLIC WORKS, BUILDING) 
 
101. 
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT PHASE II IMPACT FEE – Subject to the 
Development Agreement and in order to meet the increased demands on the Wastewater 
Treatment Plant created by this project, the applicant of each Block shall contribute fees 
toward the Plant expansion based upon the average projected sanitary flow, as determined 
under the City Council resolution in effect at the time the building permit application is 
made.  Individual Block fee amounts are available from the Public Works Department upon 
request.  The final fee shall be calculated from the final plans using the rate schedule in effect 
at the time of the building permit application. The fee shall be paid prior to issuance of the 
superstructure building permit.  (PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
102. 
TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE – Subject to the Development Agreement, 
the applicant of each Block shall pay a fee proportional to the project's share of transportation 
improvements needed to serve cumulative development within the City of San Mateo.  The 
fee amount will be based upon the City Council resolution in effect at the time the building 
permit application is made.  Individual Block fee amounts are available from the Public 
Works Department upon request.  The final fee shall be calculated from the final plans using 
the rate schedule in effect at the time of the building permit application.  The fee shall be 
paid prior to issuance of the superstructure building permit.  (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 102 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 30 of 40
 
The following conditions shall be addressed on the construction plans and/or shall be met 
prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES or ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF 
OCCUPANCY. 
 
103. 
PLANNING DIVISION INSPECTIONS – The applicant shall be responsible for 
notifying the project planner for inspections related to construction of all structures, 
landscaping, and other site improvements. The notification request shall be given at least 72 
hours prior to the requested time for inspection.  (PLANNING) 
 
104. 
VERIFICATION OF LANDSCAPE INSTALLATION – Prior to the Planning Division 
permit final for any building with on-site landscaping, the applicant shall submit a letter 
prepared by the project landscape architect stating that all landscape improvements 
(including trees, shrubs, and irrigation systems) for the building(s) which is being finaled 
have been installed in compliance with the approved landscape plans submitted to the City 
for construction.  (PLANNING) 
 
105. 
PRE-OCCUPANCY INSPECTION – A minimum of 10 days prior to anticipated 
occupancy, the applicant shall have scheduled inspections by all Departments requiring 
conditions of approval. (BUILDING) 
 
106. 
VERIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH ACOUSTICAL ANALYSIS – Prior to the 
issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy for any building that required submittal of an 
Acoustical Analysis, the applicant shall submit a letter prepared by the person/firm who 
prepared the acoustical analysis for the subject building(s), verifying that all requirements 
contained in the analysis have been incorporated into the construction of the building(s). 
(BUILDING) 
 
107. 
*NOISE CONTROL -  Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval #50, the 
project sponsor shall implement noise control measures for any mechanical equipment and 
truck loading docks on the Bay Meadows project site as needed to reduce noise levels to 
DNL of 60 dB at the property line of adjacent or nearby residences, per the City’s Noise 
Element.  At a minimum, the following measures shall be implemented:  
 
A. All proposed development shall be designed so that loading areas face away from the 
residences to minimize potential noise levels at the nearby residences. 
B. All proposed development, as feasible, shall specify equipment that meets the City’s 
noise standard of 60 dB at the nearest receptor without special enclosures or mufflers.   
C. Mechanical equipment shall be located as far away from nearby residential land uses 
as feasible.   
D. As necessary a separate noise barrier or enclosure shall be constructed around 
mechanical equipment to block line-of-sight between the equipment and nearby 
residences.   
 
The implementation of this condition shall be prior to issuance of any Certificate of 
Occupancy for each phase and monitored by the Building Division. (BUILDING) 
*Mitigation Measure Noise – BM2; Specific Plan Amendment COA #50

--- page 103 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 31 of 40
 
108. 
PARK COMPLETION AND DEDICATION – Pursuant to Section 5.9.2 of the Development 
Agreement, Owner agrees to irrevocably dedicate approximately 1.5 acres of land as a 
“Neighborhood Park.”  Interim construction staging for adjacent development is permissible on the 
Neighborhood Park site to the extent that it is not detrimental to the park improvements. 
 
In order to facilitate the use of the Neighborhood Park site for staging by the developer, the 
land developer, at its sole discretion, shall have the right to construct the Neighborhood Park 
at any time during the construction of any of the infrastructure or buildings on RES 2, RES 4, 
RES 5 or RES 6, provided, however, that land developer shall commence construction of the 
Neighborhood Park no later than the date that the first three of the above-referenced blocks 
are completed.  Once construction has commenced on the Neighborhood Park, construction 
shall be substantially completed within nine (9) months.  Substantial completion has been 
achieved when all construction work and planting installations have been completed in 
accordance with the conditions of approval with the exception of incomplete or deficient 
items deemed minor by the Park and Recreation Department that can be corrected and 
completed in a timely fashion and have been compiled on a punch list and all close-out 
submittals such as As-Built drawings, product warranties, and operating manuals have been 
submitted for review.  
 
The Neighborhood Park shall be subject to inspection by the Department of Parks and 
Recreation during the course of construction, at substantial completion, during the 90 
calendar day plant establishment period and again upon final completion for acceptance. 
 
Unless otherwise approved by the Director of Parks and Recreation, the Neighborhood Park 
improvements shall not receive final completion status for acceptance of park dedication 
until all construction and installation work for the entire park  has been approved and all 
plantings have been installed and established in a healthy condition as approved by the 
Department of Parks and Recreation for a period of 90 calendar days after approved planting 
and germination of seeded lawn or other areas, and all punch list items have been completed 
and all close-out submittals have been corrected and resubmitted.  The Developer shall 
maintain improvements installed within the Neighborhood Park in a healthy, functional, neat 
and clean condition until such time as the City accepts its dedication pursuant to Section 5.8 
of the Development Agreement    
 
(PARKS AND RECREATION, PUBLIC WORKS) Specific Plan Amendment COA #56 
 
The following conditions shall be MET PRIOR TO THE APPROVAL OF THE FINAL 
MAP OR PARCEL MAP. 
 
109. 
DEDICATIONS - The applicant or owner shall dedicate a sidewalk easement for any 
public sidewalk located on private property.  The applicant shall also dedicate a twenty (20’) 
foot maximum pedestrian access easement as shown on the site plan for Block RES 4 as 
required by the adopted Specific Plan Amendment.  This easement will be governed by a 
separate easement agreement to be reviewed and approved by the City Attorney and Public 
Works Director or his designee.  Said easements shall be dedicated on the final Project 
Tentative Map, and shall be subject review and approval of the Director of Public Works (or 
his designee) and the City Attorney.  (PUBLIC WORKS, CITY ATTORNEY)

--- page 104 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 32 of 40
 
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE 
CONSTRUCTION PHASE OF THE PROJECT. 
 
110. 
*CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES – Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of 
Approval #49, the following provisions to control traffic congestion, noise and dust shall be 
followed during site excavation, grading and construction: 
 
Building Permit Work Hours: The allowed hours of Building construction activities may be 
waived or modified through an exemption from the hours of work designated in Section 
23.06.017, for limited periods, if the Building Official finds that: 
 
1) The following criteria are met: 
 
a) Permitting extended hours of construction will decrease the total time needed to 
complete the project thus mitigating the total amount of noise associated with the 
project as a whole; or 
 
b) Permitting extended hours of construction are required to accommodate design or 
engineering requirements, such as a large concrete pour.  Such a need would be 
determined by the project's design engineer and require acceptance by the City of San 
Mateo.  
 
c) An emergency situation exists where the construction work is necessary to correct an 
unsafe or dangerous condition resulting in obvious and eminent peril to public health 
and safety.  If such a condition exists, the City may waive any of the remaining 
requirements outlined below. 
 
2) The exemption will not conflict with any other condition of approval required by the City 
to mitigate significant impacts. 
 
3) The contractor or owner of the property will notify residential and commercial occupants 
of property adjacent to the construction site of the hours of construction activity which 
may impact the area.  This notification must be provided three days prior to the start of 
the construction activity. 
 
4) The approved hours of construction activity and contact information will be posted at the 
construction site in a place and manner that can be easily viewed by any interested 
member of the public. 
 
The Building Official may revoke the exemption at any time if the contractor or owner of the 
property fails to abide by the conditions of exemption or if it is determined that the peace, 
comfort and tranquility of the occupants of adjacent residential or commercial properties are 
impaired because of the location and nature of the construction.  The waiver application must 
be submitted to the Building Official ten (10) working days prior to the requested date of 
waiver.

--- page 105 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 33 of 40
 
 
Public Works Permit Work Hours:  Construction activities related to the issuance of any 
Public Works permit shall be restricted to the weekday between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.  
Please note, however, that no work shall be allowed to take place within the City public 
right-of-way after 5:00 p.m.  In addition, no work being done under the issuance of a Public 
Works encroachment permit may be performed on the weekend unless prior approvals have 
been granted by Public Works.  Earth haul and materials delivery to and from the site, 
including truck arrivals and departures to and from the site, will be prohibited between the 
weekday hours of 4:00 p.m. - 5:30 p.m.  Signs outlining these restrictions shall be posted at 
conspicuous locations on site.  The signs shall be per the City Standard Drawing for posting 
construction hours.  The sign shall be kept free of graffiti at all times.  Contact the Public 
Works Department to obtain sample City Standard sign outlining hours of operation. 
The allowed hours of Public Works construction activities may be waived or modified 
through an exemption, for limited periods, if the and Public Works Director or his designee 
finds that: 
 
1) The following criteria are met: 
 
 
a) Permitting extended hours of construction will decrease the total time needed to 
complete the project thus mitigating the total amount of noise associated with the 
project as a whole; or 
 
 
b) Permitting extended hours of construction are required to accommodate design or 
engineering requirements, such as a large concrete pour.  Such a need would be 
determined by the project's design engineer and require acceptance by the City of San 
Mateo.  
 
 
c) An emergency situation exists where the construction work is necessary to correct 
an unsafe or dangerous condition resulting in obvious and eminent peril to public 
health and safety.  If such a condition exists, the City may waive any of the remaining 
requirements outlined below. 
 
2) The exemption will not conflict with any other condition of approval required by the 
City to mitigate significant impacts. 
 
3) The contractor or owner of the property will notify residential and commercial 
occupants of property adjacent to the construction site of the hours of construction 
activity which may impact the area.  This notification must be provided three days 
prior to the start of the construction activity. 
 
4) The approved hours of construction activity will be posted at the construction site in a 
place and manner that can be easily viewed by any interested member of the public.

--- page 106 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 34 of 40
 
The Public Works Director or his designee may revoke the exemption at any time if the 
contractor or owner of the property fails to abide by the conditions of exemption or if it is 
determined that the peace, comfort and tranquility of the occupants of adjacent residential or 
commercial properties are impaired because of the location and nature of the construction.  
The waiver application must be submitted to the Public Works Construction Inspector, ten 
(10) working days prior to the requested date of waiver.  (PUBLIC WORKS, BUILDING) 
Specific Plan Amendment COA #49 
 
111. 
INSPECTIONS - The applicant shall notify the Department of Public Works' Inspection 
Division at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to starting any work pertaining to on-site 
drainage facilities, grading, or paving; and all work in the City's right-of-way.  The applicant 
shall notify the Building Inspection Division at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the need 
for building inspection.  Failure to do so will result in rejection of work that proceeded 
without inspection.  (PUBLIC WORKS, BUILDING)   
 
112. 
*CONSTRUCTION NOISE CONTROL – Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of 
Approval #49, the following provisions to control noise shall be followed during site 
excavation, grading and construction to reduce potential noise impacts of the project to a less 
than significant level: 
 
a) All diesel equipment shall be operated with closed engine doors and should be 
equipped with factory-recommended mufflers. 
 
b) Pile-driving activities shall be restricted to between 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., 
Monday through Friday, to limit the intrusiveness of pile driving during the 
morning and evening hours.  This measure is suggested only for construction sites 
that would use pile drivers within 2,000 feet of residential or sensitive land uses. 
 
c) Stationary construction equipment shall be kept beyond 100 feet of existing 
residences outside of the Bay Meadows Phase II project boundary. 
 
d) Noise attenuation techniques will be employed as needed and feasible to reduce 
noise levels below 100 dBA Leq in commercial/industrial areas and below 80 
dBA Leq at exterior locations in residential areas.  Such techniques may include 
the use of sound blankets on noise generating equipment and the construction of 
temporary sound barriers between construction sites and affected uses.  Noise 
attenuation techniques will be verified through measurement of noise levels. 
  
e) Whenever feasible, electrical power should be used to run air compressors and 
similar power tools. 
 
f) Contractors shall use "quiet" models of any conventionally noisy construction 
equipment such as air compressors, jackhammers and other impact tools, as 
feasible.

--- page 107 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 35 of 40
 
g) Contractors shall designate an employee as the construction noise coordinator and 
provide an on-site sign that will identify the person and provide a contact number.  
The coordinator would be responsible for receiving calls from residents or 
businesses regarding specific construction noise-related complaints.  The 
coordinator would then be responsible for taking appropriate measures to reduce 
or eliminate noise levels as appropriate.  Complaints and the response should be 
logged and kept on file for review by the City.  The construction noise 
coordinator would act as a liaison between the residents in the vicinity of the 
construction and the contractor, so perceived noisy activities are addressed as 
soon as possible.  The implementation of this condition shall be monitored 
throughout construction and verified by the Public Works Department and 
Building Division. (PUBLIC WORKS, BUILDING)  *Mitigation Measure Noise 
- BM1; Specific Plan Amendment COA #49 
 
113. 
*AIR QUALITY – Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval  #53, to 
mitigate air quality impacts, the following applicable BAAQMD Basic and Enhanced and 
Optional Control Measures shall be implemented for all components of construction related 
to the proposed project site: 
 
A. 
Water all active construction areas at least twice daily, or as necessary. 
 
B. 
Cover all trucks hauling soil, sand, and other loose materials or require all trucks 
to maintain at least two feet of freeboard. 
 
C. 
Pave, apply water three times daily, or apply (non-toxic) soil stabilizers on all 
unpaved access roads, parking areas and staging areas at the construction sites as 
necessary. 
 
D. 
Sweep daily (with water sweepers) all paved access roads, parking areas and 
staging areas at the construction site, or if visible soil material is carried onto 
adjacent streets. 
 
E. 
Hydroseed or apply (non-toxic) soil stabilizers to inactive construction areas 
(previously graded areas inactive for ten days or more). 
 
F. 
Enclose, cover, water twice daily or apply (non-toxic) soil binders to exposed 
stockpiles (dirt, sand, etc.). 
 
G. 
Limit traffic speeds on unpaved roads to 15 mph. 
 
H. 
Replant vegetation in disturbed areas as quickly as possible. 
 
I. 
Install wheel washers for all trucks, or wash off the tires or tracks of all trucks and 
equipment leaving the site. 
 
 
J. 
Install wind breaks, or plant trees/vegetative wind breaks at windward side(s) of 
construction areas.

--- page 108 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 36 of 40
 
 
K. 
Suspend excavation and grading activities when winds (continuous gusts) exceed 
25 mph and there is evidence of dust being carried by the wind. 
 
L. 
All construction vehicles should be properly maintained and equipped with 
exhaust mufflers that meet State standards. Stationary construction equipment 
shall be prohibited within 100 feet of existing residences outside of the Bay 
Meadows Phase II project boundary. 
 
M. 
Construction grading activity shall be discontinued in wind conditions that in the 
opinion of the Public Works Construction Inspector cause excessive 
neighborhood dust problems.  Wash down of dirt and debris into storm drain 
systems will not be allowed. 
 
N. 
Construction activities shall be scheduled so that paving and foundation 
placement begin immediately upon completion of grading operation.  (PUBLIC 
WORKS)  
*Mitigation Measure Air Quality-BM1; Specific Plan Amendment COA #53 
 
114. 
GENERAL ACTIVITIES - All public improvements shall be made in accordance with 
the latest adopted City Standard Drawings and the Standard Specifications for Public Works 
Construction, 2006 Edition with supplements.  All work shall conform to the applicable City 
ordinances.  Good housekeeping practices shall be observed at all times during the course of 
construction.  Public right-of-way adjacent to the project site shall be kept clear at the end of 
each day of all job related dirt and debris.  Pedestrian access shall be maintained at all times 
unless otherwise approved.  Dirt and debris shall not be washed into storm sewers.  The 
storing of goods and materials on the sidewalk and/or street will not be allowed unless a 
special permit is issued therefore.  The owner's representative in charge shall be at the job 
site during all working hours.  Failure to maintain the public right-of-way in accordance with 
this paragraph may result in revocation of permit or the City performing the required 
maintenance at the applicant's expense.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
115. 
RESTORATION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS - The applicant shall repair or replace 
all existing improvements not designated for removal which are damaged or removed as a 
result of his operations for a period of one (1) year after acceptance of the roadway 
improvements under the Improvement Agreement. Improvements such as, but not limited to, 
curbs, gutters, sidewalks, driveways, pavements, raised pavement markers, thermoplastic 
pavement markings, or signs shall be repaired and replaced to a condition equal to or better 
than the original condition.  Existing improvements to be repaired or replaced shall be at the 
direction of the Public Works inspector.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
116. 
MATERIAL HAULING AND CONSTRUCTION WORKER PARKING – For material 
delivery vehicles larger than a two-axle, six-tire single unit truck (SU) as defined by FHWA 
Standards, the applicant shall use either of the following truck hauling route, as determined 
through discussions with the City Engineer, unless an alternate is approved by the City 
Engineer: Hwy. 101 to Hillsdale Boulevard to Saratoga Drive to Franklin Parkway to 
Site, or Hwy. 101 to Route 92 to Delaware Street to Site.  A letter from the applicant

--- page 109 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 37 of 40
 
confirming the intention to use the identified hauling route, and designating all on-site haul 
routes, shall be submitted, for approval, to the Department of Public Works prior to the 
issuance of any City permits.  All material hauling activities including but not limited to, 
adherence to the approved route, hours of operation, dust control and street maintenance shall 
be the responsibility of the applicant.  No on-site hauling will be permitted across the San 
Mateo County Expo Center property without written approval from the County being 
submitted to the Public Works Department.  Tracking of dirt onto City streets and walks will 
not be allowed.  The applicant must provide an approved method of cleaning tires and 
trimming loads on-site.  Any job-related dirt and/or debris that does impact the public 
right-of-way shall be removed immediately.  All material hauling activities shall be done in 
accordance with applicable City ordinances and conditions of approval.  Violation of such 
may be cause for suspension of work.   
 
 
The applicant shall provide a construction-parking plan that minimizes the effect of 
construction worker parking in the neighborhood and shall include an estimate of the number 
of workers that will be present on the site during the various phases of construction and 
indicate where sufficient off-street parking will be utilized and identify any locations for off-
site material deliveries.  Said plan shall be approved by the City Engineer prior to issuance of 
City permits and shall be enforced during construction.  Failure to enforce the parking plan 
may result in suspension of the City permits. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
117. 
NEIGHBORHOOD PARK SITE SOILS –  During the demolition, and other construction 
activities on the  Neighborhood Park site to be performed by applicant no disposal of any site 
or building material including rubble, bay mud, rocks, trash, hazardous material, demolition 
or construction debris of any kind, or soils containing material that is deleterious to plant 
growth, or future construction of the park improvements, into existing soils or soils to be 
used as fill within the linear park, unless otherwise approved by the Director of Public Works 
or his designee.  All on-site soils and import fill soil within the areas of applicant's work in 
the Neighborhood Park shall be suitable for plant growth to sufficient depths.   
 
At completion of sub-grading for any topsoil and again after topsoil placement, a qualified 
representative of an approved horticultural testing company shall sample, test and determine 
if the fill and existing soils within the linear park are suitable for plant growth to sufficient 
depths.  The project geotechnical engineer shall be present during grading operations to 
certify that the fill and existing soils are properly compacted and meet all other aspects of the 
parameters listed above.  Remedial recommendations from the above qualified professionals 
shall be executed by the developer. All plantings areas shall be provided with good quality 
topsoil for healthy growth of the specified plants.  Topsoil within permanent lawn areas shall 
be screened free of rocks over 1” in size for at least a depth of 8”.  Soil preparation for all 
planting areas shall be based on soil tests performed on approved topsoil(s) after placement.  
Finished grades of planting areas shall be no more than ½” below adjacent hard surfaced 
areas.    (PUBLIC WORKS, PARKS AND RECREATION) 
 
118. 
PARK PLANT QUALITY AND INSPECTION - All trees, shrubs, and groundcover to 
be planted within public parks shall conform to the latest edition of the California 
Association of Nurserymen, American Association of Nurserymen specifications and the 
latest Guideline Specification for Nursery Tree Quality published by the Urban Tree

--- page 110 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 38 of 40
 
Foundation and California Dept of Forestry.  All trees must have a straight and defined 
central leader (not crooked or bending sideways) with good taper and good caliper and if not 
available submit recommendation for alternate tree type for approval.  All trees shall be 
tagged at the nursery prior to delivery by the City’s Arborist or consulting Arborist in 
conjunction with the land developer’s representative and the land developer’s Landscape 
Architect.  Applicant shall provide the City with a two week advance notice for tagging and 
shall pay for all expenses made in conjunction with tree tagging including travel and lodging 
if necessary.  Trees which have been tagged shall be delivered to the site within two weeks of 
tagging or at such time as may be mutually agreed and shall be inspected by the City’s 
Arborist or Consulting Arborist for any decline in health and damage in travel prior to 
planting.  All other plant materials shall be inspected upon delivery to the site.  All rejected 
planted material shall immediately be removed from the site.  (PARKS AND 
RECREATION) 
 
119. 
NEIGHBORHOOD PARK PLANT ESTABLISHMENT, MAINTENANCE AND 
ACCEPTANCE OF THE PARK DEDICATION -   In connection with development of the 
Neighborhood Park as shown on construction documents, applicant shall establish all 
plantings and maintain all park improvements constructed by applicant within the 
Neighborhood Park as shown on the construction documents in a healthy, aesthetically 
pleasing, safe, functional and neat condition for a minimum period of 90 calendar days from 
the completion and approval by the Park and Recreation Department of the construction 
work and planting, including germination of seeded lawn or other seeded areas, and until 
such time as the applicant’s offer of dedication of the park has been accepted by the City, 
unless otherwise agreed to by the Director of Parks and Recreation.  If the City accepts park 
dedication and the park improvements after their completion but prior to the expiration of the 
90 day plant establishment and maintenance period, the Developer shall assign to the City all 
applicable rights under Developer’s maintenance agreement with its contractors responsible 
for the development of the park. (PARKS AND RECREATION) 
 
120. 
NEIGHBORHOOD PARK SITE AS STAGING AREA – Developer's use of the 
Neighborhood Park shall be governed by Section 5.9.2 of the Development Agreement and 
Condition #56 of PA 02-105 the Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment.  The developer’s 
use of the Neighborhood Park site shall not be detrimental to the future park improvements.  
No intentional dumping of paints, solvents, wet concrete or other deleterious chemicals, or 
granular, powdery or liquid harmful to humans or plants shall occur on the Neighborhood 
Park site and accidental spillages shall be immediately cleaned up including removal of any 
contaminated soil. No intermixing of debris within existing soils shall be allowed.    (PARKS 
AND RECREATION) 
 
121. 
FIRE SAFETY DURING CONSTRUCTION – Building under construction shall comply 
with the requirements with Chapter 14 of the California Fire code, 2007 edition.  All 
additional fire permits required by Chapter 14 shall be obtained from the Bureau of Fire 
Protection and Life Safety.  (FIRE)

--- page 111 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 39 of 40
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the use permitted by 
this planning application occupies the premises. 
 
122. 
ENTRY MARKERS – The land developer shall submit a separate Planned Sign Program 
for any proposed Entry Markers for the Bay Meadows Phase II development.  The Planned 
Sign Program shall be reviewed for consistency with the City’s Sign Ordinance in effect at 
the time of application, the Development Agreement, the Specific Plan Amendment, and the 
Bay Meadows II Design Guidelines and Development Standards. 
 
The land developer retains the option to develop Entry Markers as “public art” instead of 
signage.  The final design of the Entry Markers shall be presented to the Planning 
Commission.  (PLANNING)     
    
123. 
STATION INTEGRATION PLAN - The land developer and representative from the 
master homeowner's association for Phase II Specific Plan shall be asked to participate as 
stakeholders in the development of a Station Integration Plan. This Plan will address items 
such as appropriate wayfinding signage, fence and gate locations, station drop-off/pick-up 
locations, and other items related to the smooth functioning of the future station once the 
station design becomes more developed.  In no event shall the stakeholder be required to alter 
improvements or designs in a way that would compromise the use of the private parking 
garages, private streets, or increase the cost or timing of design, construction, or occupancy 
of the improvements contemplated in the approved SPAR documents.  (PLANNING, 
PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
124. 
NO RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT PROGRAM – As this project has made special 
provisions for residential visitor parking to be provided on-street, the City Public Works 
Department shall at no time in the future entertain a request from the residential 
developments within the Bay Meadows Specific Plan Area for a residential parking permit 
program. (PUBLIC WORKS)   
 
125. 
TRASH/ RECYCLING BIN STAGING ON PUBLIC STREETS - A maximum of six 
bins (three for recycling and three for solid waste) shall be temporarily placed within a dual 
parking/loading zone on the public street to allow for limited stacking of bins only during 
times of service. This loading zone shall be unique in that the specified loading time period 
and days shall be based on the anticipated time period and days of the week of service. The 
spaces will be available for public parking during times other that those posted for bin 
loading activities. The loading zone shall be located as close as possible to the garage exit, 
with the exact location and length and time period/days subject to the review and approval of 
the Director of Public Works or his designee. The loading zone area shall be shown on 
building permit plans. The bins shall be placed on the public street by the Master HOA a 
maximum of 30 minutes prior to service, and shall be removed from street by the Master 
HOA no more than 30 minutes after service. In the event that the local franchise hauler offers 
subterranean bin retrieval service, even if this service is at an additional cost, the Master 
HOA shall immediately change to this type of service and contact the Public Works 
Department to arrange for removal of the special loading spaces. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 112 ---
Conditions of Approval 
 
PA 07-055, Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #2 
Page 40 of 40
 
126. 
POST CONSTRUCTION BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – In accordance 
with the City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control Rules and Regulations 
(SMMC 7.38.020), and the San Mateo Countywide Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP) 
by reference, the applicant shall: 
 
A. 
Owner/occupant shall inspect private storm drain facilities at least two (2) times 
per year and sweep parking lots immediately prior to and once during the storm 
season. 
 
B. 
The applicant shall deposit a performance bond on a yearly basis for cost 
associated with, but not limited to, biannual inspection of the private storm drain 
facilities, emergency maintenance needed to protect public health or 
watercourses, and facility replacement or repair in the event that the treatment 
facility is no longer able to meet performance standards or has deteriorated.  The 
annual bond shall be in the amount of five thousand ($5,000) and shall increase 
by CPI on an annual basis. 
 
C. 
Label new and redeveloped storm drain inlets with the phrase “No Dumping – 
Drains to Bay”, (by stenciling, branding or plaques) to alert the public to the 
destination of storm water and to prevent direct discharge of pollutants into the 
storm drain.  Template ordering information is available from the Department of 
Public Works. 
 
All process equipment, oils fuels, solvents, coolants, fertilizers, pesticides, and similar 
chemical products, as well as petroleum based wastes, tallow, and grease planned for storage 
outdoors shall be stored in covered containers at all times.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
127. 
*TDM MONITORING – Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval #43, the 
short-term, mid-term and long-term trip reduction goals shall be in compliance with the 
adopted Traffic Management Plan dated March 17, 2008 prepared by Kimley-Horn and 
Associates, Inc., and shall be monitored and verified by the City or TMA.  (PUBLIC 
WORKS, PLANNING)  *Mitigation Measures Traffic and Circulation - BM11, BM14; 
Specific Plan Amendment COA #43 
 
* MITIGATION MEASURE - This measure mitigates adverse environmental effects identified 
in the environmental document.  Monitoring procedures are contained within the condition of 
approval.  A change in the condition may affect the validity of the current environmental 
document, and a new or amended environmental document may be required.