source: packet.pdf
sha256: 29d249daa785fc97d6250684b13190b3b4075795f756bf3d36b4788ff3a4562d
pages: 177
ocr_pages: 29
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission 
April 11, 2023
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Margaret Williams, Chair
John Ebneter, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
Martin Wiggins
REVISED AGENDA
Posted 4/7/2023
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS
WHICH SUSPEND CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE BROWN ACT.
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: April 11, 2023
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 814 6006 6988      Passcode: 052416
Commissioner Seema Patel will participate in this meeting via teleconference from:
TRYP by Windham Pittsburgh
177 40th Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15201
The Planning Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
1.
Item from the March 28, 2023 Adjourned Planning Commission Meeting: Planning Commission Meeting
Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the Regular meeting of 2.14.2023.
CEQA: This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)

--- page 2 ---
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's
jurisdiction that are not on the agenda.  Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of
15 minutes for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's
jurisdiction. The Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the
agenda, but shall refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 of the San Mateo
Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those issues raised at the
public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing. Some public
hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
 
2.
Item from the March 28, 2023 Adjourned Planning Commission Meeting: Appeal of a New Single-Family
Residence at 125 15th Avenue (PA-2021-049)
Adopt a Resolution to deny the appeal of the Zoning Administrator's decision to approve the Special Use Permit
(SUP) for demolition of an existing single-family residence, and the Single-Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR)
for construction of a new 2,238 square-foot, two-story single-family residence, with a detached one-car garage
and accessory dwelling unit (ADU) located at 125 15th Avenue based on the findings and subject to the
conditions of approval included in Attachment 1.
CEQA: This project is categorically exempt from CEQA under Class 1 §15301 (l), Demolition of One Single-Family
Residence and Class 3 §15303, New Construction, since it represents demolition of an existing single-family
residence and construction of one, new single-family residence in a residential zone.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.For
transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.

--- page 3 ---
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Planning Division Office at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-7340-01
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
April 11, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Regular meeting of 2.14.2023.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Regular Meeting Minutes 2.14.2023
STAFF CONTACT
Ashley Snodgrass , Administrative Assistant
asnodgrass@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7218

--- page 5 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 2/14/23
1
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Margaret Williams, Chair
John Ebneter, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
Martin Wiggins
City of San Mateo
Regular Meeting Minutes
Planning Commission
Tuesday, February 14, 2023
Hybrid 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
CALL TO ORDER 
This meeting was held pursuant to the Governor’s Executive Orders which suspended certain requirements of the Brown 
Act. The meeting was open to in person and remote attendance.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
ROLL CALL
Present: 
Chair Margaret Williams, Vice Chair John Ebneter, Commissioners Adam Nugent and Seema Patel
Absent: 
Commissioner Martin Wiggins
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the Special meetings of 11.17.2022 and 1.12.2023 and the Regular meeting of 12.13.2022.
Moved:
Nugent, Seconded: Patel
Ayes:
Williams, Ebneter, Nugent, Patel
Noes:
None
Absent: 
Wiggins
Chair Williams announced that she is abstaining from the vote to approve the minutes for the Special meeting of 
1.12.2023.
PUBLIC COMMENT: 
Jennifer Martinez expressed concern for Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing (AFFH) following the discussion of the 
Housing Element at the Planning Commission Regular meeting on 1.12.2023.
STUDY SESSION
2.
435 E. 3rd Avenue – New Five-Story Office/Residential Mixed-Use Building (PA-2021-081)
Senior Planner, Rendell Bustos, presented an overview of the architectural and site design of the proposed project. 
 
Applicant Mike Field presented the project.
       
Commissioner Questions: 
Commissioners asked clarifying questions on permitted land uses, management of open space, bicycle parking, 
storm drainage, access and maintenance of bioswales, sidewalk width, removal of protected trees, tree 
replacement, labor standards, cumulative traffic analysis, construction timelines, zoning, the Housing Element, and 
guidelines for Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing (AFFH).

--- page 6 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 2/14/23
2
Public Comments: 
Laurie Watanuki, Daniel Shefen, Kenneth Do, George, and Olya addressed the Commission with concern for the 
project, citing reasons of traffic and parking impacts, design, office space size, exterior and interior lights, storm 
drainage, tree removal, sidewalk width, and lack of labor standards for construction workers.
Commissioner Comments: 
Commissioners supported the design, materials, location, and the potential space for a small business. 
Commissioners discussed the impacts of the project on the jobs-housing imbalance. Commissioners also suggested 
more bicycle spaces for residents.
The Commission moved to Adopt a Resolution to approve the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) and Site 
Development Planning Application (SDPA) for construction of a new five-story mixed-use building with 33,529 
square feet of office uses and five residential units at 435 E. 3rd Avenue, and a Special Use Permit (SUP) for 
construction staging at 402 S. Delaware Street; and adopt a Mitigated Negative Declaration to assess the 
environmental impacts of the project, based on the Findings for Approval and subject to the Conditions of Approval.
Moved:
Patel, Seconded: Ebneter
Ayes:
Williams, Ebneter, Patel
Noes:
Nugent
Absent: 
Wiggins
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Planning Manager, Manira Sandhir, provided updates on items for future Planning Commission, including the 
cancellation of the Regular meeting on February 28, 2023. Commissioner Ebneter suggested having OneShoreline 
present to Planning Commission. There were no other reports from Chair, Commissioners, or City Attorney.
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 8:57 pm.
APPROVED BY:
___________________________________
Margaret Williams, Chair
SUBMITTED BY:
___________________________________
Ashley Snodgrass, Administrative Assistant

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-7293-01
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
April 11, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Appeal of a New Single-Family Residence at 125 15th Avenue (PA-2021-049)
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to deny the appeal of the Zoning Administrator's decision to approve the Special Use Permit (SUP) for 
demolition of an existing single-family residence, and the Single-Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR) for construction of 
a new 2,238 square-foot, two-story single-family residence, with a detached one-car garage and accessory dwelling unit 
(ADU) located at 125 15th Avenue based on the findings and subject to the conditions of approval included in Attachment 
1.
BACKGROUND:
On July 15, 2021, Azadeh Masrour of AMS Design (Applicant), submitted Planning Application (PA) 2021-049 for a new 
two-story single-family residence with a detached garage and ADU, and worked with the City’s Development Review Board 
to address code requirements and consistency with design guidelines for the proposed project. Following a duly noticed 
public review period, the Zoning Administrator approved the proposed project on January 20, 2023 (Attachment 2). On 
January 30, 2023, Mr. David Bower (Appellant), a neighboring resident, filed an appeal of the Zoning Administrator 
decision citing concerns related to removal of a large Protected Tree, lack of neighborhood compatibility with respect to 
building scale, and potential shading of an adjacent neighbor’s solar panels from the proposed second story. The appeal 
form is included as Attachment 3. San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Section 27.08.090 authorizes the Planning 
Commission to take action on an appeal of a Zoning Administrator decision. This staff report provides a summary of the 
project, the issues raised in the appeal, and a discussion of how the project substantially complies with the Single-Family 
Dwelling Design Guidelines, Zoning Code requirements and applicable standards for purposes of approving the project. 
Project Description
The project site is located at 125 15th Avenue in the Hayward Park neighborhood of San Mateo. The site is zoned R1-C (One 
Family Dwellings) and has a parcel area of 5,000 square feet. A location map showing the project site and its vicinity is 
included as Attachment 4.
The project includes demolition of the existing 1,250 square-foot one-story single-family residence and construction of a 
new 2,238 square-foot (1,408 square-foot first floor and 830 square-foot second floor), two-story, single-family residence 
with a detached 582 square-foot ADU. The project also includes a 199 square-foot one-car garage attached to the ADU. 
Removal of one large Coast Live Oak tree located in the rear yard, which qualifies as a Protected Tree, is also proposed to 
allow for construction of the ADU. Project plans showing the proposed site plan, floor plans, elevations and landscape 
improvements are included in Attachment 5.

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Zoning Code and Design Review
The project is subject to the requirements of SMMC Chapter 27.18 for One Family Dwellings (R1) Zoning District, including 
development standards for floor area ratio (FAR), building height, daylight plane, and setbacks. The overall proposed floor 
area of 2,437 square-feet is within the maximum allowable floor area of 2,500 square-feet for the property. The project 
proposes an overall building height of 25 feet, 9 inches measured to roof peak, and 21 feet, 8 inches measured to the 
highest plate-line, both of which are measured from existing grade. These measurements are within the maximum roof 
peak height of 32 feet and maximum plate-line height of 24 feet. Furthermore, the proposed conversion of an existing 
two-car garage into a 582 square-feet ADU with a one-car garage meets the requirements of the City’s Accessory Dwelling 
Unit Ordinance (SMMC Chapter 27.19). The project’s compliance with applicable Zoning Code requirements are 
summarized in the Project Data Sheet (Attachment 6).
The proposed demolition of the existing residence requires a Special Use Permit (SUP) pursuant to SMMC Section 
27.18.035. The existing single-family residence is estimated to have been constructed in 1924 and may be best 
characterized as Mission Revival based upon its flat roof, thick stucco finish and minimal red tile accents. This block of 15th 
Avenue was surveyed in the 1989 City of San Mateo Historic Building Survey, and the building was not identified as a 
historic resource in the local inventory. Therefore, the proposed demolition would not result in a potential impact.
The proposed construction of a new two-story single-family residence requires a Single-Family Dwelling Design Review 
(SFDDR) in accordance with SMMC Section 27.08.032. This review includes evaluating the project for consistency with the 
Single-Family Design Guidelines (Design Guidelines). Staff found the project to be in substantial conformance with the 
Design Guidelines because it utilized materials that are common to the neighborhood and incorporated a gable roof form 
with second-story setbacks that provide a building form and scale that is consistent with the existing residences in the 
neighborhood. Additional details about the project’s conformance with the Design Guidelines are provided in the 
Resolution (Attachment 1).
APPEAL:
As noted in the Appeal Form, the appeal is focused on the following areas of concern: 1) removal of a Protected Tree (21-
inch DBH Heritage Oak tree); 2) lack of neighborhood compatibility with respect to building scale; and 3) shading of a 
photovoltaic array on a neighboring dwelling. The following is a summary of how the project meets applicable standards 
that relate to the concerns identified in the appeal. 
1.
Removal of a Protected Tree
The Appellant requested that the City “reject” removal of a large Protected Tree located in the rear yard, which is a 21-
inch Coast Live Oak tree that is identified as “Tree #4” in the project’s Arborist Report (Attachment 7). The removal is 
proposed to allow an addition to the existing detached garage structure that would be converted into an ADU and 
one-car garage. The Appellant recommended “preserving the existing Heritage tree” and stated that “creative design 
options are available to create the proposed ADU” by modifying the ADU location. Since the tree is located within the 
footprint of a proposed ADU, Government Code Section 65852.2 provides that the City’s review of ADUs is ministerial 
and precludes the City from applying the discretionary findings, including any appeals associated with the proposed 
tree removal. The Project Arborist also noted the tree to be in “fair condition with poor form and fair structure” due to 
a “large hole in the upper crown.” In further review of the existing tree location and photos, staff found that the tree is 
located directly adjacent to existing overhead utilities, resulting in regular pruning that has led to poor tree form. 
Given the tree’s existing conflict with overhead utility lines and proposed footprint of the ADU, there is sufficient 
evidence to justify removal of this Protected Tree. In addition, the project proposes replacement tree plantings that 
include a new 24-inch box Strawberry tree and 15-gallon Sweet Bay tree, to maintain and enhance the tree canopy on 
site.
2.
Consistency with the Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines
The Appellant expressed concerns that the proposed two-story residence is inconsistent with the Design Guidelines 
with respect to neighborhood compatibility and impacts to views and privacy of neighbors. Staff evaluated the project 
in accordance with the Design Guidelines and made the following findings with regard to consistency with the Design 
Guidelines:

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
Neighborhood Scale: The Design Guidelines1 directs projects to consider overall building size and shape as 
elements that contribute to neighborhood scale. Currently, the project proposes a gable roof form with 4:12 
roof slope with an overall roof peak height of 25 feet, 9 inches. The project also includes second-story setbacks 
of 9 feet, 8 inches from both side property lines and 20 feet, 11 inches at the front, to further reduce building 
mass. Staff’s evaluation of the proposed building scale found it to be similar to that of other residences in the 
vicinity and is within the City’s maximum building height and Daylight Plane requirements for single-family 
residence. To further ensure compatibility, the project utilizes gable roof forms and materials, such as stucco 
siding and asphalt shingle roof tiles, that are similar to materials and building forms found in the 
neighborhood.
•
Privacy and View Impacts: Concerns were also raised about potential impacts that the two-story residence 
would have on the privacy and views of surrounding neighbors. The Design Guidelines provides guidance to 
respect the privacy of adjacent neighbors and to preserve established views that include the distant Bay, City 
or Peninsula hills and vistas.2 To address privacy concerns of neighbors, the applicant voluntarily agreed to 
raise the second-story windowsills up to five feet above the finished floor (Condition of Approval No. 4). An 
additional 12-inch tall lattice will also be added to the existing six-foot tall fence along the rear and side 
property lines of the site to further address privacy of the adjacent homes. With respect to views, this block of 
15th Avenue, between Palm Avenue and S. B Street is primarily flat with little to no views of the distant Bay, 
City and Peninsula hills. Therefore, the proposed project would not pose an impact to existing views. Staff 
finds that the overall building form, higher second-story windows, and increased fence height are adequate to 
reasonably address any potential privacy impacts to the adjacent properties.
As discussed above, staff finds that the project is in substantial conformance with the Design Guidelines, which is 
discussed in further detail in the Resolution (Attachment 1).
3.
Shading of the Photovoltaic Array
The primary concern raised by the Appellant is related to the potential shadow that the project would cast onto an 
adjacent neighbor’s solar photovoltaic array. The Appellant cited SMMC Section 23.46.020(e), which requires permits 
to identify any “reasonable restrictions” within installation of small residential rooftop solar energy systems. While this 
requirement is not applicable to the review of this planning application, the appellant is concerned about financial loss 
due to shading that may come from the proposed structure and the potential reduction in solar energy production. 
The Appellant also referenced the City’s adopted General Plan for solar energy and sustainable building design policies, 
which are provided in Attachment 8. These policies focus on public outreach to encourage installation of new solar and 
sustainable building features and are not intended to preclude development of structures due to shadows that could 
occur on adjacent properties. Additionally, the Appellant requested a shadow study, which is not required for single-
family projects as they are subject to the City’s height limits and Daylight Plane requirements. However, the Applicant 
voluntarily prepared a shadow study, which shows that some shadows would be cast on the adjacent neighbor’s solar 
panels during the winter solstice on December 21st at 3:00 p.m. (Attachment 9).
Staff also considered various State laws that limit shading of existing solar energy systems. The Solar Shade Control Act 
(Public Resources Code Sections 25980-25986) provides that a tree or shrub cannot cast a shadow that covers more 
than 10 percent of a solar collector’s absorption area at any one time between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. 
In addition, Government Civil Code Section 801.5, outlines a solar easement wherein neighbors may voluntarily agree 
to grant easements to receive sunlight across another property for a solar energy system. The neighbor adjacent to the 
project site has confirmed that no such easement exists. Hence, the proposed two-story residence complies with all 
local and state requirements. 
1 City of San Mateo, Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines, page 14 
(https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentView.asp?DID=1854)
2 City of San Mateo, Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines, pages 24 to 27 
(https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentView.asp?DID=1854)

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
In summary, staff has evaluated the proposed project and the concerns raised by the Appellant and recommends that 
the Planning Commission approve the proposed project as it meets all applicable policies and regulations.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Staff has determined that the project is categorically exempt from further review under the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) under Class 1 Section 15301(l)(1) Demolition and removal of one single-family residence; and Class 3
Section 15303(a) New construction of one single-family given that the project includes demolition of one single-family
residence which does not qualify as a historic resource and includes construction of one single-family dwelling with a 
detached ADU on an urban lot. Therefore, the project is exempt from further CEQA analysis.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
Staff received various public comments during the initial project review and public comment period, which are included as 
Attachment 10. Concerns were raised regarding the initial project design, loss of off-street parking, and concerns for 
privacy and shadows. The Applicant worked to address neighbors’ concerns through substantial design revisions, size 
reductions to the second-story windows, and increased privacy solutions. All revisions were completed prior to issuing the 
Zoning Administrator decision to conditionally approve the project.
Additional public comments received following the publishing of this agenda report will be forwarded to the Planning 
Commission for review and consideration at the Public Hearing and posted to this item on the City’s Public Meeting Portal 
as “Post Packet Public Comments.”
NOTICE PROVIDED:
In accordance with Government Code section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements in Chapter 
27.08.050, this hearing was noticed to the following parties ten days in advance of the Planning Commission meeting:
•
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 500 feet of the project site;
•
The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in city-wide planning projects;
•
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and,
•
The interested parties list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Resolution with Findings and Conditions of Approval
Att 2 - Zoning Administrator Decision Letter
Att 3 - Appeal Form to the Planning Commission
Att 4 - Location Map
Att 5 - Project Plans
Att 6 - Project Data Sheet
Att 7 - Arborist Report
Att 8 - Applicable Solar Energy General Plan Policies 
Att 9 - Preliminary Shadow Study
Att 10 - Public Comments
STAFF CONTACT
Linda Ly, Associate Planner
lly@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7217

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023)
RESOLUTION DENYING THE APPEAL OF A ZONING ADMISTRATOR DECISION AND UPHOLDING THE 
APPROVAL OF PLANNING APPLICATION PA-2021-049 FOR A SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DESIGN 
REVIEW AND A SPECIAL USE PERMIT AT 125 15TH AVENUE (APN 034-294-120).
(PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVENUE SUP + SFDDR)
WHEREAS, Azadeh Masrour of AMS Design (herein referred to as the “Applicant”) submitted 
Planning Application PA-2021-049 for a Special Use Permit (SUP) to demolish an existing single-family 
residence, and a Single-Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR) to construct a new 2,238 square-foot, 
two-story single-family residence with detached accessory dwelling unit (ADU) and one-car garage, 
located at 125 15th Avenue, APN 034-294-120 (collectively referred to as “Project”) in the City of San 
Mateo (“City”); and,
WHEREAS, the Zoning Administrator found that the Project is categorically exempt from CEQA 
under Section 15301(l)(1) and 15303(a); and
 
WHEREAS, the Zoning Administrator found that the Project is consistent with the applicable 
policies of the General Plan and other applicable codes and policies; and
WHEREAS, the Zoning Administrator approved the Project for a new two-story single-family 
residence on January 20, 2023, following a duly noticed public review period; and 
WHEREAS, David Bower (herein referred to as the “Appellant”) filed an Appeal of the decision by 
the Zoning Administrator to approve the Project (Planning Application PA-2021-049) on January 30, 2023; 
and
WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Charter and Municipal Code Section 27.08.090 authorizes the 
Planning Commission to take action on the Appeal of a Zoning Administrator decision; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to consider the Appeal on March 28, 
2023, duly noticed, at which all public comments were considered.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN 
MATEO, DOES HEREBY DENY THE APPEAL AND UPHOLD THE DECISION BY THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR 
TO APPROVE PLANNING APPLICATION PA-2021-049 AT 125 15TH AVENUE, APN 034-294-120; BASED 
UPON THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL AND THE CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL INCLUDED IN 
EXHIBIT A TO THIS RESOLUTION:
1.
The Project will not have a significant effect on the environment and is therefore categorically 
exempt from the provisions of CEQA under CEQA Section 15301(l)(1) and 15303(a).

--- page 12 ---
2.
The Special Use Permit, pursuant to SMMC Section 27.74.020, and associated Conditions of 
Approval are approved based on the finding that granting of the Special Use Permit for full 
demolition of the existing single-family residence will not adversely affect the general health, 
safety and/or welfare of the community nor will it cause injury or disturbance to adjacent 
properties by traffic or by excessive noise, smoke, odor, noxious gas, dust, glare, heat, fumes or 
industrial waste in that the project has been conditioned to minimize impacts of dust and noise 
to the surrounding neighborhood. The existing single-family residence to be demolished is 
estimated to have been built in the year 1924 and is best characterized as Mission Revival style 
architecture. The existing residence is not listed on the City of San Mateo’s historic resources 
inventory, therefore allowing for substantial removal of the existing structure.
3.
The Single-Family Dwelling Design Review, pursuant to SMMC Section 27.08.032, and associated 
Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following findings:
a) The structures, site plan, and landscaping are consistent with the adopted R1 Single 
Family Dwelling Design Guidelines in that:
i.
The proposed two-story single-family residence is well integrated with the 
existing architectural character of the Hayward Park neighborhood. The 
surrounding neighborhood features a variety of styles that include Spanish 
Colonial Revival, Bungalows, Neoclassic Rowhouses, and Traditional. The project 
is best characterized as Traditional style, through its use of modest gable roof 
forms and symmetrical window and building proportions. The project carries 
inspiration from the surrounding neighborhood by selecting building exterior 
materials, such as stucco walls and shingle roof, that are common in the 
neighborhood.
ii.
The project incorporates second-story step backs of 9’-8” from the side property 
line and 22 feet from the front property line to further reduce the apparent bulk 
and mass of the new two-story residence. The project is also designed to meet 
daylight plane requirements to minimize loss of natural light to adjacent 
neighboring residences. A seven-foot-tall fence is proposed along the side and 
rear property lines to mitigate privacy concerns to neighboring homes. A 
standard Condition of Approval to raise the second story windowsills along the 
side elevations up to five feet above the finished floor has been added to 
address the privacy concerns by adjacent neighbors.
iii.
The proposed residence will include the addition of new landscaping in all yard 
areas. The proposed landscaping will include a variety of drought resistant 
plants and trees to enhance the neighborhood streetscape along 15th Avenue. 
The landscape plan includes at least two new tree plantings to replace two 
existing trees that will be removed from the rear yard, one of which is a 
Protected Tree (Coast Live Oak). The proposed trees will also provide additional 
privacy protection for adjacent neighbors.
b)
The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the 
City in that the proposed residence is designed in accordance with the San Mateo

--- page 13 ---
Zoning Code and adheres to the maximum floor area ratio, minimum setback, and 
maximum building height. The proposed residence is in a one-family dwelling zoning 
district (R1-C) which allows for a maximum floor area of 0.50 for parcels up to 6,000 
square-feet plus 0.20 for any parcel area over 6,000 square-feet. The maximum height 
is 24 feet to the plate line and 32 feet to the roof peak. The daylight plane requirement 
is 12 feet from grade along the side property lines projecting into the lot at a 45-degree 
angle. The proposed residence is in conformance with the maximum allowable floor 
area ratio, minimum setbacks, maximum height, and daylight plane requirement. 
c)
The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the 
vicinity, and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare in 
that the proposed project is designed in a manner that is sensitive and compatible with 
the surrounding neighborhood. 
d)
The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning 
Commission and City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any 
violations of the zoning ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist 
on the site in that the proposed dwelling does not exceed the height limitation, 
parking, or daylight plane requirements for the site and will be constructed in 
conformance with the Uniform Building Code. 
e)
The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security in that it will be constructed in accordance with the City's 
Security ordinance.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
AS FOLLOWS:
1.
The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Land Use Element policies of the City’s 
General Plan. 
a)
In accordance with Policy LU 1.9, which encourages the preservation of single-family 
areas and limiting new development to low-density residential uses, the proposed 
Project maintains the single-family use as delineated on the Land Use Map by 
proposing a replacement single family home and an accessory dwelling unit.
b)
In accordance with Policy LU 1.9a, which encourages the livability of San Mateo 
neighborhoods by reviewing Single-Family Dwelling Design Review planning 
applications for compatibility with the City’s Single-Family Design Guidelines, the 
Project has been evaluated for compatibility with the surrounding neighborhood and 
incorporates guidance from the City’s Single-Family Design Guidelines by stepping 
back the second-story to reduce the overall scale and massing that is similar to 
surrounding residences. The Project includes a large covered front porch to create a 
human scaled appearance and helps further compatibility with the neighborhood and 
residences.

--- page 14 ---
2.
The Project conforms to Policy H 1.4 of the Housing Element of the City’s General Plan. In 
accordance with Policy H 1.4, which encourages Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU) development 
to meet the City’s Housing Element production goals, the Project includes the creation of a 
new ADU that is in conformance with all applicable development standards.
3.
The Project conforms to Policy UD 2.12 of the Urban Design Element of the City’s General 
Plan, which encourages single-family dwellings to substantially conform to the City’s Single-
Family Design Guidelines and preserve the neighborhood scale, materials, architectural style, 
privacy, and views. The Project has been evaluated to conform with the City’s Design 
Guidelines and preserves and enhances the neighborhood through maintaining similar 
building scale as existing residences and common materials such as stucco finish and asphalt 
shingle roof.

--- page 15 ---
EXHIBIT A
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP
125 15TH AVE, SAN MATEO,
 PARCEL # 034294120
 AS APPROVED BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON ________.
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of 
approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance. 
Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance. Types of 
Building permits include Demolition, Shoring/Excavation, Foundation, and Superstructure.
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING 
PERMIT FOR SHORING OR FOUNDATION, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, whichever is issued first, 
or prior to the deadline specified in that condition.
Planning Division (PA)
1 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE – All building permit plans, details, 
and subsequent construction shall substantially conform with the approved planning 
application. This includes but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and 
other items submitted as part of the approved planning application. Any proposed 
modifications to the approved planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the 
proposed modifications. The Community Development Director, or his/her designee, shall 
determine whether the proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved 
planning application, or whether a planning application modification is required to be 
submitted to permit the proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 
27.08.080 Modifications. (PLANNING)
2 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – This complete list of Conditions of Approval shall be 
reproduced onto the second sheet of all building permit plan sets. (PLANNING)
3 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall pay all 
outstanding planning application fees. (PLANNING)
4 PLAN SET REVISION TO SECOND-STORY WINDOWS - The applicant shall submit a revised 
plan set that raises the second-story windowsills up to five feet from the finished floor 
along the left (southwest) and right (northeast) elevations. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
5 APPLICABLE BUILDING STANDARDS AND LOCAL CODES – All building permit plans shall 
demonstrate compliance with the applicable California Building Standards Codes and local 
amendments as adopted by the Building Division at the time of filing the building permit 
application. (BUILDING)

--- page 16 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP
As approved on ________
Page 2 of 12
6 BAAQMD JOB NUMBER – The applicant shall submit an asbestos demolition and 
renovation notification job number (J#) from Bay Area Air Quality Management District. 
(BAAQMD). (BUILDING)
7 DEMOLITION – A building permit for demolition shall be issued in accordance with Section 
23.06.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, to the satisfaction of the Building Official or 
his/her designee. (BUILDING)
8 SITE SURVEY – The applicant shall provide a full site survey stamped and signed by a Land 
Surveyor licensed by the State of California. The survey shall include, but not be limited to: 
location and dimensions of property lines, location of streets and easements, existing 
buildings, topographic contour lines, trees/landscape, and other structures. (BUILDING)
9 SOILS REPORT AND INVESTIGATION LETTER – The applicant shall submit a stamped, signed, 
and dated soils investigation report containing design recommendations and integrate 
recommendations into the plans as-appropriate, to the satisfaction of the Building Official 
or his/her designee. The applicant shall also submit a letter stamped and signed by the 
Geotechnical engineer of-record stating the plans and specifications substantially conform 
to the recommendations in the soil report, subject to the satisfaction of the Building 
Official or his/her designee. (BUILDING) 
Parks and Recreation Department (PA)
10 APPROVED PROTECTED TREE REMOVAL PERMIT – The applicant shall obtain and provide 
proof of an approved Protected Tree Removal Permit to remove the Protected Tree(s) 
specified in the approved Planning Application or as recommended by the Project Arborist 
subject to the review and satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her 
designee. Removal of Protected Trees (living or dead) requires approval from the Parks and 
Recreation Department. (CDD ARBORIST)
11 TREE PROTECTION VERIFICATION LETTER – To verify that all tree protection measures are 
properly implemented, the applicant shall submit a tree protection verification letter 
prepared by the project arborist to the Building Division that includes photographs 
showing the tree protection installed. The letter shall also include a schedule of future 
inspections by the Project Arborist. The verification letter is subject to the review and 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (CDD ARBORIST)

--- page 17 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP
As approved on ________
Page 3 of 12
Public Works Department (PA)
12 ADDRESS PLAN – The applicant shall submit to the Public Works Department a final 
address plan. The plan shall be substantially in conformance with the address plan 
approved with the planning application. Said submittal shall be approved by the Director of 
Public Works or designee prior to the submittal of plans for any demolition permit, 
building permit, or site development permit and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of 
whichever permit is issued first. (PUBLIC WORKS)
13 ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE – The applicant shall obtain an 
encroachment permit, posting the required bonds and insurance, and provide a one (1) 
year warranty for all work to be done in the City's right of way or easements prior to any 
work being done. (PUBLIC WORKS)
14 GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLANS – All grading and drainage plans shall identify the vertical 
elevation datum, date of survey, and surveyor. Grading plans shall show existing topo and 
features at least 50’ beyond the project boundary. Plan shall show existing topography, 
label contour elevations, drainage patterns, flow lines, slopes, and all other property 
encumbrances. (PUBLIC WORKS)
15 POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCB) SCREENING ASSESSMENT FORM – As per Stormwater 
Municipal Regional Permit requirements and San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, 
Demolition Permit Applicants shall complete the PCBs Screening Assessment Form located 
here: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/160/Demolition-Requirements The Form shall be 
reviewed and approved by the Director of Public Works or his/her designee. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
16 STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP) – The project applicant shall 
provide a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) in compliance with Bay Area 
Stormwater Management Agencies Association (BASMAA) Blueprint for a Clean Bay Best 
Management Practices to Prevent Stormwater Pollution from Construction-Related 
Activities.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
17 STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PERMIT – The applicant shall obtain a Stormwater 
Pollution Prevention (STOPPP) Construction permit, paying the required fees and posting 
the required cash deposit, for all work associated with the stormwater pollution 
prevention program in accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39.170. The 
fee amount will be based upon the City Council resolution in effect at the time the building 
permit application is made. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 18 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP
As approved on ________
Page 4 of 12
18 TRAFFIC CONTROL & SITE LOGISTICS PLANS – The applicant shall submit traffic control 
plans for any impact to the right-of-way for each phase of operation, including pedestrian 
and bicycle detour plans as applicable. The traffic control plan shall comply with the most 
recent version of the California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD) and 
the City’s Traffic Control Plan Requirements.
The applicant shall also submit a site logistics plan for each phase of operation. The plan, at 
a minimum, shall include estimated timeframes for implementation, duration, 
construction operations. (PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE 
SUPERSTRUCTURE.
Planning Division (PA)
19 LOCATION AND SCREENING OF ABOVE GROUND UTILITIES AND EQUIPMENT – All screening 
for any ground-level utilities, equipment, and other project related operational/utility 
devices shall be shown on the building permit plans in substantial conformance with the 
approved planning application. All above ground utilities and equipment shall be screened 
with landscaping, fencing, and/or other solid materials to the satisfaction of the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
20 CALGREEN – The building permit plans shall incorporate the applicable CALGreen Checklist 
noting the green building measures the project will incorporate in accordance with the 
California Green Building Standards Code and City of San Mateo Reach Codes subject to 
the review and approval by the Building Official, or his/her designee. Current City of San 
Mateo CALGreen checklists are located on Building Division webpage or will be provided 
by Community Development Department staff, if requested. (BUILDING)
21 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – The applicant shall submit a completed Water 
Conservation in Landscaping Screening Form. If the screening form indicates the project is 
subject to the Water Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance pursuant to Municipal Code 
Section 23.72.030, additional documentation prescribed by the screening form shall also 
be included with the site plan. City of San Mateo Water Conservation in Landscaping forms 
are located on Building Division webpage. The applicant shall submit the required 
landscape documentation package with building permit application subject to the review 
and satisfaction of the Building Official, or his/her designee.  (BUILDING)

--- page 19 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP
As approved on ________
Page 5 of 12
Fire Department (PA)
22 CODE CONFORMANCE – The applicant shall indicate on all building permit plans that all 
construction shall meet current code standards at the time of building permit submittal. 
The building permit plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee. (FIRE)
Public Works Department (PA)
23 DRAINAGE – The building permit plans shall show drainage designed into landscaping with 
the purpose of reducing volume or improving quality of runoff from the site shall be 
implemented, to extent feasible, subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works or 
designee or designee. Where necessary, sidewalk drains per City Standard Drawing 3-1-120 
shall be provided to direct the water under the sidewalk and through the curb. No increase 
to the peak discharge shall be permitted downstream. In addition, discharge shall conform 
to any non-point source permit issued by the Regional Water Quality Control Board. 
Drainage improvements made on-site shall conform to standard engineering practices and 
shall not allow any site drainage to impact adjacent properties. The building permit plans 
for the superstructure shall show drainage. (PUBLIC WORKS)
24 FENCES AND OTHER PERMANENT STRUCTURES – The applicant shall locate all project 
fencing and foundations of a permanent nature within the project’s property and out of 
the City right-of-way. (PUBLIC WORKS)
25 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS – An Encroachment Permit shall be required for all public 
improvements in the public right-of-way or easements. All public improvements shall be 
completed prior to the Certificate of Occupancy. 
The developer shall repair or replace all existing improvements not designated for removal 
and all new improvements that are damaged or removed because of developer's 
operations. Developer shall request a walk-through with the Public Works Construction 
Inspector before the start of construction to verify existing conditions.
The applicant shall have improvement plans prepared for all work in the public right of way 
or easements by a licensed civil engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp shall appear on 
the plans. The improvement plans shall be included in the superstructure building permit 
submittal and substantially conform to the approved planning application. Any changes to 
the improvements shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee at their 
sole discretion. All design assumptions and criteria shall be submitted. Project 
specifications shall be included for review.

--- page 20 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP
As approved on ________
Page 6 of 12
All work shown on the improvement plans shall be inspected and approved by Public 
Works.
Quantities for items below are provided only to determine minimum bonding 
requirements for the encroachment permit. The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the following public improvements in the public right of way: 
(A) ALLEY GRIND & OVERLAY – The applicant shall grind and overlay entire width of the 
project along the back Alley. (PUBLIC WORKS)
26 SEWER CHARGE – SOUTH TRUNK AREA SEWER IMPROVEMENT FEE – In order to meet the 
increased demands on the South Trunk Sewer system created by this project, the applicant 
shall contribute fees toward the construction cost to increase its capacity based upon the 
project’s average projected sanitary flow, as established by San Mateo Municipal Code 
Chapter 3.54.080. The fee shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid 
prior to issuance of the first superstructure building permit. The fee shall be based on the 
fee schedule in effect on January 13, 2022. (PUBLIC WORKS)
27 SEWER LATERAL INSPECTION – As required by Municipal Code Section 7.38.432, the 
applicant shall hire a licensed plumber or contractor to perform a sewer lateral inspection 
and complete a Sewer Lateral Inspection Form (Form) to be submitted to the Director of 
Public Works or designee, unless the project is exempt per Municipal Code Section 
7.38.432(c)(2). The video inspection shall be completed prior to building permit issuance. 
The Form shall be reviewed by the Department of Public Works. If the Form indicates a 
failed inspection, the repair and/or replacement of the sewer lateral shall appear on the 
building permit plans for the superstructure prior to building permit issuance. In addition, 
if the Form indicates a failed inspection, the applicant shall repair and/or replace the sewer 
lateral, with all required permits, and provide an updated Form with a passing inspection, 
prior to occupancy. (Public Works)
28 TRIANGULAR AREA OF VISIBILITY – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall 
show that the installation of landscaping and permanent structures located within the 10' 
triangular area of visibility at the driveway meets the requirements of a minimum vertical 
clearance of 7', and/or are less than 3' in height. This includes all PG&E above ground 
structures and other utility facilities. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 21 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP
As approved on ________
Page 7 of 12
29 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show 
the installation of all new, and upgraded, utility services, including telephone, electric 
power, and other communications lines underground to the building in accordance with 
City of San Mateo Municipal Code 26.32.020. Transformers and switch gear cabinets shall 
be placed on private property or within a utility easement.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
30 UTILITIES – Utility plans shall be submitted as part of the building permit plans for the 
superstructure and shall show appropriate line types and labels to identify different type 
of utilities and pipe sizes. Clearly identify both public and private utilities.
The Developer shall provide joint trench composite plans for the underground electrical, 
gas, telephone, cable television, and communication conduits and cables including the size, 
location and details of all trenches, locations of building utility service stubs and meters 
and placements or arrangements of junction structures.
Sanitary sewer laterals and/or water meters located in driveways shall have traffic rated 
boxes and lids. (PUBLIC WORKS)
31 WASTEWATER CAPACITY CHARGE – A wastewater capacity charge, as established by San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.38.065, is imposed on all new development to recover a 
proportionate share of costs for existing and future wastewater system facilities and assets 
from new or expanded connections to City wastewater systems. The applicable 
wastewater capacity charge is determined by use, wastewater flow, and wastewater 
strength loadings and the amount shall be established by City Council resolution. The fee 
shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first 
superstructure building permit. The fee shall be based on the most current adopted fee 
schedule at the time of payment. (PUBLIC WORKS)
32 WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT PHASE II IMPACT FEE – In order to meet the increased 
demands on the Wastewater Treatment Plant created by this project, the applicant shall 
contribute fees toward the Plant expansion based upon the average projected sanitary 
flow, as established by City Council Resolution No. 24 (2006). The fee shall be collected by 
the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first superstructure building 
permit. The fee shall be based on the fee schedule in effect on January 13, 2022. . (PUBLIC 
WORKS)

--- page 22 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP
As approved on ________
Page 8 of 12
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, ISSUANCE 
OF A TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, or ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, 
whichever occurs first.
Planning Division (PA)
33 FINAL LANDSCAPING FOR SINGLE FAMILY PROJECTS – Apart from paved driveway and 
walkway areas, required front yard and street-side yard areas (if applicable) shall be 
improved with landscaping, which may consist of a combination of drought-tolerant plants 
and other organic and inorganic materials, except paving. If new landscaping is not 
proposed, any damaged landscaping shall be replaced with new landscaping as described 
above. Proposed new landscaping shall be shown on the building permit plans prior to 
permit issuance and all landscaping shall be installed prior to final inspection,  subject to 
the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING)
34 PLANNING FINAL INSPECTION – Upon completion of all construction and landscaping, the 
applicant shall request the Project Planner conduct a Planning Final inspection for  
verification of compliance with all outstanding conditions of approval. The applicant shall 
contact the Project Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance 
of the requested inspection. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
35 SOIL FINAL REPORT – The Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared the soil 
investigation, or an equally qualified professional, shall issue a final report stating the 
completed pad, foundation, finish grading and associated site work substantially conform 
to the approved plans, specifications and investigations, to the satisfaction of the Building 
Official or his/her designee. (BUILDING)
Fire Department (PA)
36 FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM – The applicant shall install a fire sprinkler system throughout the 
single-family dwelling in accordance with NFPA 13D or the California Residential Code 
subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her designee prior to the Fire 
Final Inspection. (FIRE)

--- page 23 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP
As approved on ________
Page 9 of 12
Parks and Recreation Department (PA)
37 FINAL ARBORIST REPORT – The Project Arborist shall perform a final site inspection and 
submit a final arborist report to the Building Division. At minimum, the final arborist report 
shall confirm that the approved tree protection measures were implemented and shall 
assess the condition of Protected Tree(s). Any damage to existing Protected Tree(s) shall 
be subject to replacement and/or penalties in accordance with Municipal Code Section 
13.40.160 subject to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her 
designee. (CDD ARBORIST)
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION PHASE 
OF THE PROJECT.
Planning Division (PA)
38 FRAME/PLANNING ROUGH INSPECTION – Upon completion of all framing and prior to the 
installation of exterior sheathing and windows, the applicant shall request the Project 
Planner conduct a Rough Frame inspection to verify items including, but not limited to, 
window locations, window sizes, and massing. The applicant shall contact the Project 
Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance of the requested 
inspection. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
39 CONSTRUCTION WORK HOURS – Construction shall occur only between the hours of 7:00 
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on 
Saturday, and between 12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m. on Sundays and holidays. These hours do 
not apply to construction that takes place inside a completely enclosed building and does 
not exceed the exterior ambient noise level as measured 10 feet from the exterior 
property lines. The applicant shall conform to the construction work hours to control 
traffic congestion, noise, and dust unless an exemption is granted in accordance with 
Municipal Code Section 23.06.061. (BUILDING)
Fire Department (PA)
40 ADDRESS NUMBERS – The applicant shall post temporary address numbers on each 
building at the project site that must be easily visible from the street or fire access road. 
(FIRE)
41 DEMOLITION – The applicant shall comply with the California Fire Code Chapter 33 during 
all phases of construction of the project. (FIRE)

--- page 24 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP
As approved on ________
Page 10 of 12
42 EGRESS – The applicant shall maintain required egress for all adjacent buildings/properties. 
(FIRE) 
Parks and Recreation Department (PA)
43 PROJECT ARBORIST INSPECTIONS – The Project Arborist shall submit a report to the 
Building Division within five business days after each of his/her inspection documenting 
the condition of trees, protection measures changes or adjustments, and/or any damages 
to Protected trees. (CDD ARBORIST)
44 TREE PROTECTION MEASURES – All approved tree protection measures shall remain in 
place and be properly maintained during all phases of construction. The applicant or 
contractor shall notify the Project Arborist in advance when construction operations are to 
be performed within the Tree Protection Zone of protected trees. (e.g. trenching, 
excavation, grade changes, etc.) Adjustment of Tree Protection Measures requires 
approval from the City Arborist.  (CDD ARBORIST)
Public Works Department (PA)
45 ARCHITECTURAL COPPER – Per the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention 
Program’s requirements, the applicant shall follow the specific best management practices 
for the installation of the Architectural Copper. For detailed information please distribute 
the flyer to all construction personnel involved in the fabrication and installation of the 
Architectural Copper that is located at: https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-
stormwater-pollution/with-new-redevelopment/construction-best-practices/  (PUBLIC 
WORKS/BUILDING)
46 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – The applicant shall perform all construction 
activities in accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control 
Rules and Regulations (SMMC 7.39), and the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution 
Prevention Plan (SMCWPPP) by reference. Detailed information can be located at: 
https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-stormwater-pollution/with-new-
redevelopment/construction-best-practices/ 
(PUBLIC WORKS)
47 CONSTRUCTION WORKER PARKING – The applicant shall provide a construction-parking 
plan that minimizes the effect of construction worker parking in the neighborhood and 
shall include an estimate of the number of workers that will be present on the site during 
the various phases of construction and indicate where sufficient off-street parking will be 
utilized and identify any locations for off-site material deliveries. Said plan shall be

--- page 25 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP
As approved on ________
Page 11 of 12
approved by the Director of Public Works or designee prior to issuance of City permits and 
shall be complied with at all times during construction. Failure to enforce the parking plan 
may result in suspension of the City permits. (PUBLIC WORKS)
48 MATERIAL HAULING – For material delivery vehicles equal to, or larger than two-axle, six-
tire single unit truck (SU) size or larger as defined by FHWA Standards, the applicant shall 
submit a truck hauling route that conforms to City of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 
11.28.040 for the approval of the Director of Public Works or designee. The project 
sponsor shall require contractors to prohibit trucks from using “compression release 
engine brakes” on residential streets. The haul route for this project shall be as approved 
by the Director of Public Works or designee. A letter from the applicant confirming the 
intention to use this hauling route shall be submitted to the Department of Public Works, 
and approved, prior to the issuance of any City permits. All material hauling activities 
including but not limited to, adherence to the approved route, hours of operation, staging 
of materials, dust control and street maintenance shall be the responsibility of the 
applicant. All storage and office trailers shall be kept off the public right-of-way. Tracking 
of dirt onto City streets and walks will not be allowed. Entry and exit from the site will use 
rock or rumble strips to prevent tracking. The applicant shall provide an approved method 
of cleaning tires and trimming loads on site. Any job related dirt and/or debris that impacts 
the public right of way shall be removed immediately. No wash down of dirt into storm 
drains is allowed. Use of a sweeper is permissible as long as it operates dry (no water used, 
only vacuum). All material hauling activities shall be done in accordance with applicable 
City ordinances and conditions of approval. Violation of such may be cause for suspension 
of work. (PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the project permitted by this 
planning application occupies the premises.
Planning Division (PA)
49 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE AT ALL TIMES – All physical 
improvements, uses, and operational requirements authorized by the approved planning 
application shall, at all times that the use permitted by this planning application occupies 
the premises, substantially conform with the approved planning application. This includes 
but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and other items submitted as 
part of the approved planning application. Any proposed modifications to the approved 
planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the proposed modifications. The 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee shall determine whether the 
proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved planning application, or 
whether a planning application modification is required to be submitted to permit the 
proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications.  
(PLANNING)

--- page 26 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP
As approved on ________
Page 12 of 12
City Attorney (PA)
50 INDEMNIFICATION – The applicant will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City of 
San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against 
any costs, claims, or liabilities arising out of the approval of this planning application, 
including, without limitation, any award of attorney fees that might result from third party 
challenge.  If applicant is required to defend the City, the City shall retain the right to select 
the counsel who shall defend the City.  (CITY ATTORNEY)
51 PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.02.210-Violations of 
Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of the conditions of approval is 
unlawful and will subject the applicant to the penalties set forth in Chapter 1.04-General 
Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal Code as well as any other available legal remedies.  
(CITY ATTORNEY)

--- page 27 ---
January 20, 2023 
 
Azadeh Masrour 
AMS Design LLP 
azadeh@amsdesignllp.com 
 
Subject:  PA-2021-049, 125 15th Ave., SUP + SFDDR 
 
125 15th Ave., APN 034-294-120 
 
Dear Ms. Masrour: 
 
This letter is a follow up to your Planning Application resubmittal of November 16, 2022, as referenced 
above. Enclosed is a copy of the Zoning Administrator's decision to approve the application as well as 
applicable Conditions of Approval.  This approval by the Zoning Administrator is final unless appealed within 
ten (10) calendar days of the date of this approval. You will be contacted if an appeal is filed.  
 
Any required Building Permits can be submitted online at www.cityofsanmateo.org/onlinepermitcenter. In 
accordance with Municipal Code section 27.08.085, this Planning Application approval is valid for two years. 
If this approval expires, a new Planning Application must be resubmitted subject to all codes and policies in 
effect at the time of the new submittal. Please also note that the time within which judicial review may be 
sought is governed by Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.6. In addition, the time within which the 
imposition of fees, dedications, reservations, or other exactions may be challenged is governed by 
Government Code Section 66020. Please contact me at (650) 522-7217 or via email at 
LLy@cityofsanmateo.org for any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Linda Ly 
Associate Planner 
 
Enclosure: Decision of the Zoning Administrator and Conditions of Approval  
 
Cc:  Project Planner (Email Distribution) 
Development Review Board Members (Email Distribution) 
 
Planning Manager (Email Distribution) 
 
Zoning Administrator (Email Distribution) 
 
City Clerk (Email Distribution) 
 
Property Owner (Email Distribution zomorrodi@sbcglobal.net) 
 
Bcc:   Planning Commission (Email Distribution) 
 
Interested Parties List (Email Distribution) 
CITY OF SAN MATEO  
    
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
 
    
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
                                                     www.cityofsanmateo.org   
(650) 522-7000

--- page 28 ---
DECISION OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR 
 
PA#: PA-2021-049 
 
PA NAME: 125 15th Ave., SUP + SFDDR 
 
ZONING CLASSIFICATION:  R1-C 
 
ADDRESS/APN: 125 15th Ave., APN: 034-294-120 
 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION: Special Use Permit (SUP) for full demolition of the existing one-story single-family 
residence. Single Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR) for a new two-story 2,238 square-foot single-family 
residence. The project will also convert an existing detached garage into a new 781 square-foot accessory 
dwelling unit (ADU) with an attached one-car garage located in the rear yard area. This project is consistent 
with the Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines and complies with the applicable Zoning Code 
requirements. 
 
PLANNING APPLICATION APPROVALS:  
 
X 
SPECIAL USE PERMIT (SUBSTANTIAL DEMOLITION) 
X 
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING DESIGN REVIEW 
 
PROJECT PLANNER:  Linda Ly 
 
APPROVAL DATE:    01/20/2023
CITY OF SAN MATEO  
    
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
 
    
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
                                                     www.cityofsanmateo.org   
(650) 522-7000

--- page 29 ---
FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL: 
 
I. CEQA CLEARANCE 
 
The project is categorically exempt from environmental guidelines (Class 1 §15301 (l), 
Demolition of One Single-Family Residence; Class 3 §15303, New Construction) since it 
represents demolition of an existing single-family residence and construction of one, new 
single-family residence in a residential zone.  
 
II. SPECIAL USE PERMIT FOR THE SUBSTANTIAL DEMOLITION OF 50% OR MORE OF AN 
EXISTING SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE (ZONING CODE §27.74.020) 
 
1. The existing single-family residence to be demolished is estimated to have been built in 
the year 1924 and is best characterized as Mission Revival style architecture. Granting 
the Special Use Permit for the full demolition of the existing single-family residence will 
not adversely affect the general health, safety and/or welfare of the community nor will 
it cause injury or disturbance to adjacent property by traffic or by excessive noise, 
smoke, odor, noxious gas, dust, glare, heat, fumes, or industrial waste in that the project 
has been conditioned to minimize impacts of dust and noise to surrounding 
neighborhood. The existing residence is not listed on the City of San Mateo’s historic 
resources inventory, therefore allowing for substantial removal of the existing structure.  
 
III. SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING DESIGN REVIEW (ZONING CODE SECTION §27.08.032) 
 
1. The structures, site plan, and landscaping are consistent with the adopted R1 Single 
Family Dwelling Design Guidelines in that: 
a. The proposed two-story single-family residence is well integrated with the 
existing architectural character of the Hayward Park neighborhood. The 
surrounding neighborhood features a variety of styles that include Spanish 
Colonial Revival, Bungalows, Neoclassic Rowhouses, and Traditional. The project 
is best characterized as Traditional style, through its use of modest gable roof 
forms and symmetrical window and building proportions. The project carries 
inspiration from the surrounding neighborhood by selecting building exterior 
materials, such as stucco walls and shingle roof, that are common in the 
neighborhood. 
b. The project incorporates second-story step backs of 9’-8” from the side property 
line and 22 feet from the front property line to further reduce the apparent bulk 
and mass of the new two-story residence. The project is also designed to meet 
daylight plane requirements to minimize loss of natural light to adjacent 
neighboring residences. A seven-foot-tall fence is proposed along the side and 
rear property lines to mitigate privacy concerns to neighboring homes. A 
standard Condition of Approval to raise the second story windowsills along the 
left (southwest) elevation up to five feet above the finished floor has been added 
to address the privacy concerns by adjacent neighbors.

--- page 30 ---
c. The proposed residence will include the addition of new landscaping in all yard 
areas. The proposed landscaping will include a variety of drought resistant plants 
and trees to enhance the neighborhood streetscape along 15th Avenue. The 
landscape plan includes at least two new tree plantings to replace two existing 
trees that will be removed from the rear yard, one of which is a Protected Oak 
Tree. The proposed trees will also provide additional privacy protection for 
adjacent neighbors. 
 
2. The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the 
City in that the proposed residence is designed in accordance with the San Mateo 
Zoning Code and adheres to the maximum floor area ratio, minimum setback, and 
maximum building height. The proposed residence is in a one-family dwelling zoning 
district (R1-C) which allows for a maximum floor area of 0.50 for parcels up to 6,000 
square-feet plus 0.20 for any parcel area over 6,000 square-feet. The maximum height is 
24 feet to the plate line and 32 feet to the roof peak. The daylight plane requirement is 
12 feet from grade along the side property lines projecting into the lot at a 45-degree 
angle. The proposed residence is in conformance with the maximum allowable floor 
area ratio, minimum setbacks, maximum height, and daylight plane requirement.  
 
3. The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the 
vicinity, and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare in 
that the proposed project is design in a manner that is sensitive and compatible with the 
surrounding neighborhood.  
 
4. The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning 
Commission and City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any 
violations of the zoning ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on 
the site in that the proposed dwelling does not exceed the height limitation, parking, or 
daylight plane requirements for the site and will be constructed in conformance with 
the Uniform Building Code.  
 
5. The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security in that it will be constructed in accordance with the City's 
Security ordinance.

--- page 31 ---
IV. GENERAL PLAN CONFORMITY 
 
The project conforms to the following Land Use policies of the General Plan: 
 
LU 1.9:   
Single-Family and Duplex Preservation.  Protect established predominantly single-
family areas by limiting new development in such areas to single-family uses, and 
protect predominantly duplex areas by limiting new development to low-density 
residential uses as delineated on the Land Use Map.  Consider re-designating multi-
family areas to single-family and low-density residential uses where such uses 
predominate and where the creation of additional legal non-conforming uses would 
be minimized. 
 
LU 1.9a: 
Single-Family Dwelling Projects.  Enhance the livability of San Mateo neighborhoods 
by reviewing Single-Family Dwelling Design Review planning applications for 
compatibility with neighborhood character, relationship to the neighborhood, and 
elements of design and site layout as described in the City’s Single-Family Design 
Guidelines.  
 
The project conforms to these policies in that the construction of a new single-family residence 
will not impact the single-family character of the neighborhood, increase the intensity of use on 
the property, or exceed the allowable floor area ratio or single-family building height.  
 
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR DECISION: 
 
x 
APPROVED 
CEQA CLEARANCE:  §15301 
CATEGORICAL EXEMPTION 
CLASS 1 – Demolition and removal of one single-family residence 
CLASS 3 – New construction of one single-family residence.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL: See Attached. 
 
 
SIGNATURE      
 
 
 
 
 
                                           
 
 
      Julia Klein, Deputy Zoning Administrator 
 
DATE: 
 
01/20/2023 * 
 
* This decision is final unless appealed in writing within ten (10) calendar days of the above 
date.

--- page 32 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO PLANNING APPLICATION 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP 
125 15TH AVE, SAN MATEO, 
 PARCEL # 034294120 
 AS APPROVED BY THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR ON 1/20/2023 
 
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of 
approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance. 
Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance. Types of 
Building permits include Demolition, Shoring/Excavation, Foundation, and Superstructure. 
 
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING 
PERMIT FOR SHORING OR FOUNDATION, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, whichever is issued first, 
or prior to the deadline specified in that condition. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
1 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE – All building permit plans, details, 
and subsequent construction shall substantially conform with the approved planning 
application. This includes but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and 
other items submitted as part of the approved planning application. Any proposed 
modifications to the approved planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the 
proposed modifications. The Community Development Director, or his/her designee, shall 
determine whether the proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved 
planning application, or whether a planning application modification is required to be 
submitted to permit the proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 
27.08.080 Modifications. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – This complete list of Conditions of Approval shall be 
reproduced onto the second sheet of all building permit plan sets. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall pay all 
outstanding planning application fees. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 PLAN SET REVISION - The applicant shall submit a revised plan set that raises the second-
story windowsills up to five feet from the finished floor along the left (southwest) and right 
(northeast) elevations. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
5 APPLICABLE BUILDING STANDARDS AND LOCAL CODES – All building permit plans shall 
demonstrate compliance with the applicable California Building Standards Codes and local 
amendments as adopted by the Building Division at the time of filing the building permit 
application. (BUILDING)

--- page 33 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP 
As approved on 1/20/2023 
Page 2 of 12 
 
 
6 BAAQMD JOB NUMBER – The applicant shall submit an asbestos demolition and 
renovation notification job number (J#) from Bay Area Air Quality Management District. 
(BAAQMD). (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 DEMOLITION – A building permit for demolition shall be issued in accordance with Section 
23.06.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, to the satisfaction of the Building Official or 
his/her designee. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 SITE SURVEY – The applicant shall provide a full site survey stamped and signed by a Land 
Surveyor licensed by the State of California. The survey shall include, but not be limited to: 
location and dimensions of property lines, location of streets and easements, existing 
buildings, topographic contour lines, trees/landscape, and other structures. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 SOILS REPORT AND INVESTIGATION LETTER – The applicant shall submit a stamped, signed, 
and dated soils investigation report containing design recommendations and integrate 
recommendations into the plans as-appropriate, to the satisfaction of the Building Official 
or his/her designee. The applicant shall also submit a letter stamped and signed by the 
Geotechnical engineer of-record stating the plans and specifications substantially conform 
to the recommendations in the soil report, subject to the satisfaction of the Building 
Official or his/her designee. (BUILDING)  
 
 
 
 
 
Parks and Recreation Department (PA) 
 
 
10 APPROVED PROTECTED TREE REMOVAL PERMIT – The applicant shall obtain and provide 
proof of an approved Protected Tree Removal Permit to remove the Protected Tree(s) 
specified in the approved Planning Application or as recommended by the Project Arborist 
subject to the review and satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her 
designee. Removal of Protected Trees (living or dead) requires approval from the Parks 
and Recreation Department. (CDD ARBORIST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 TREE PROTECTION VERIFICATION LETTER – To verify that all tree protection measures are 
properly implemented, the applicant shall submit a tree protection verification letter 
prepared by the project arborist to the Building Division that includes photographs 
showing the tree protection installed. The letter shall also include a schedule of future 
inspections by the Project Arborist. The verification letter is subject to the review and 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (CDD ARBORIST)

--- page 34 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP 
As approved on 1/20/2023 
Page 3 of 12 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
12 ADDRESS PLAN – The applicant shall submit to the Public Works Department a final 
address plan. The plan shall be substantially in conformance with the address plan 
approved with the planning application. Said submittal shall be approved by the Director of 
Public Works or designee prior to the submittal of plans for any demolition permit, 
building permit, or site development permit and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of 
whichever permit is issued first. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13 ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE – The applicant shall obtain an 
encroachment permit, posting the required bonds and insurance, and provide a one (1) 
year warranty for all work to be done in the City's right of way or easements prior to any 
work being done. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14 GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLANS – All grading and drainage plans shall identify the vertical 
elevation datum, date of survey, and surveyor. Grading plans shall show existing topo and 
features at least 50’ beyond the project boundary. Plan shall show existing topography, 
label contour elevations, drainage patterns, flow lines, slopes, and all other property 
encumbrances. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15 POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCB) SCREENING ASSESSMENT FORM – As per Stormwater 
Municipal Regional Permit requirements and San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, 
Demolition Permit Applicants shall complete the PCBs Screening Assessment Form located 
here: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/160/Demolition-Requirements The Form shall be 
reviewed and approved by the Director of Public Works or his/her designee. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP) – The project applicant shall 
provide a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) in compliance with Bay Area 
Stormwater Management Agencies Association (BASMAA) Blueprint for a Clean Bay Best 
Management Practices to Prevent Stormwater Pollution from Construction-Related 
Activities.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17 STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PERMIT – The applicant shall obtain a Stormwater 
Pollution Prevention (STOPPP) Construction permit, paying the required fees and posting 
the required cash deposit, for all work associated with the stormwater pollution 
prevention program in accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39.170. The 
fee amount will be based upon the City Council resolution in effect at the time the building 
permit application is made. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 35 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP 
As approved on 1/20/2023 
Page 4 of 12 
 
 
18 TRAFFIC CONTROL & SITE LOGISTICS PLANS – The applicant shall submit traffic control 
plans for any impact to the right-of-way for each phase of operation, including pedestrian 
and bicycle detour plans as applicable. The traffic control plan shall comply with the most 
recent version of the California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD) and 
the City’s Traffic Control Plan Requirements. 
 
The applicant shall also submit a site logistics plan for each phase of operation. The plan, at 
a minimum, shall include estimated timeframes for implementation, duration, 
construction operations. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE 
SUPERSTRUCTURE. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
19 LOCATION AND SCREENING OF ABOVE GROUND UTILITIES AND EQUIPMENT – All screening 
for any ground-level utilities, equipment, and other project related operational/utility 
devices shall be shown on the building permit plans in substantial conformance with the 
approved planning application. All above ground utilities and equipment shall be screened 
with landscaping, fencing, and/or other solid materials to the satisfaction of the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
20 CALGREEN – The building permit plans shall incorporate the applicable CALGreen Checklist 
noting the green building measures the project will incorporate in accordance with the 
California Green Building Standards Code and City of San Mateo Reach Codes subject to 
the review and approval by the Building Official, or his/her designee. Current City of San 
Mateo CALGreen checklists are located on Building Division webpage or will be provided 
by Community Development Department staff, if requested. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – The applicant shall submit a completed Water 
Conservation in Landscaping Screening Form. If the screening form indicates the project is 
subject to the Water Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance pursuant to Municipal Code 
Section 23.72.030, additional documentation prescribed by the screening form shall also 
be included with the site plan. City of San Mateo Water Conservation in Landscaping forms 
are located on Building Division webpage. The applicant shall submit the required 
landscape documentation package with building permit application subject to the review 
and satisfaction of the Building Official, or his/her designee.  (BUILDING)

--- page 36 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP 
As approved on 1/20/2023 
Page 5 of 12 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
22 CODE CONFORMANCE – The applicant shall indicate on all building permit plans that all 
construction shall meet current code standards at the time of building permit submittal. 
The building permit plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee. (FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
23 DRAINAGE – The building permit plans shall show drainage designed into landscaping with 
the purpose of reducing volume or improving quality of runoff from the site shall be 
implemented, to extent feasible, subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works or 
designee or designee. Where necessary, sidewalk drains per City Standard Drawing 3-1-
120 shall be provided to direct the water under the sidewalk and through the curb. No 
increase to the peak discharge shall be permitted downstream. In addition, discharge shall 
conform to any non-point source permit issued by the Regional Water Quality Control 
Board. Drainage improvements made on-site shall conform to standard engineering 
practices and shall not allow any site drainage to impact adjacent properties. The building 
permit plans for the superstructure shall show drainage. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24 FENCES AND OTHER PERMANENT STRUCTURES – The applicant shall locate all project 
fencing and foundations of a permanent nature within the project’s property and out of 
the City right-of-way. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS – An Encroachment Permit shall be required for all public 
improvements in the public right-of-way or easements. All public improvements shall be 
completed prior to the Certificate of Occupancy.  
 
The developer shall repair or replace all existing improvements not designated for removal 
and all new improvements that are damaged or removed because of developer's 
operations. Developer shall request a walk-through with the Public Works Construction 
Inspector before the start of construction to verify existing conditions. 
 
The applicant shall have improvement plans prepared for all work in the public right of way 
or easements by a licensed civil engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp shall appear on 
the plans. The improvement plans shall be included in the superstructure building permit 
submittal and substantially conform to the approved planning application. Any changes to 
the improvements shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee at their 
sole discretion. All design assumptions and criteria shall be submitted. Project 
specifications shall be included for review.

--- page 37 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP 
As approved on 1/20/2023 
Page 6 of 12 
All work shown on the improvement plans shall be inspected and approved by Public 
Works. 
 
Quantities for items below are provided only to determine minimum bonding 
requirements for the encroachment permit. The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the following public improvements in the public right of way:  
 
(A) ALLEY GRING & OVERLAY – The applicant shall grind and overlay entire width of the 
project along the back Alley. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26 SEWER CHARGE – SOUTH TRUNK AREA SEWER IMPROVEMENT FEE – In order to meet the 
increased demands on the South Trunk Sewer system created by this project, the applicant 
shall contribute fees toward the construction cost to increase its capacity based upon the 
project’s average projected sanitary flow, as established by San Mateo Municipal Code 
Chapter 3.54.080. The fee shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid 
prior to issuance of the first superstructure building permit. The fee shall be based on the 
fee schedule in effect on January 13, 2022. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27 SEWER LATERAL INSPECTION – As required by Municipal Code Section 7.38.432, the 
applicant shall hire a licensed plumber or contractor to perform a sewer lateral inspection 
and complete a Sewer Lateral Inspection Form (Form) to be submitted to the Director of 
Public Works or designee, unless the project is exempt per Municipal Code Section 
7.38.432(c)(2). The video inspection shall be completed prior to building permit issuance. 
The Form shall be reviewed by the Department of Public Works. If the Form indicates a 
failed inspection, the repair and/or replacement of the sewer lateral shall appear on the 
building permit plans for the superstructure prior to building permit issuance. In addition, 
if the Form indicates a failed inspection, the applicant shall repair and/or replace the sewer 
lateral, with all required permits, and provide an updated Form with a passing inspection, 
prior to occupancy. (Public Works) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
28 TRIANGULAR AREA OF VISIBILITY – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall 
show that the installation of landscaping and permanent structures located within the 10' 
triangular area of visibility at the driveway meets the requirements of a minimum vertical 
clearance of 7', and/or are less than 3' in height. This includes all PG&E above ground 
structures and other utility facilities. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 38 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP 
As approved on 1/20/2023 
Page 7 of 12 
 
 
29 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show 
the installation of all new, and upgraded, utility services, including telephone, electric 
power, and other communications lines underground to the building in accordance with 
City of San Mateo Municipal Code 26.32.020. Transformers and switch gear cabinets shall 
be placed on private property or within a utility easement.  (PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
30 UTILITIES – Utility plans shall be submitted as part of the building permit plans for the 
superstructure and shall show appropriate line types and labels to identify different type 
of utilities and pipe sizes. Clearly identify both public and private utilities. 
 
The Developer shall provide joint trench composite plans for the underground electrical, 
gas, telephone, cable television, and communication conduits and cables including the size, 
location and details of all trenches, locations of building utility service stubs and meters 
and placements or arrangements of junction structures. 
 
Sanitary sewer laterals and/or water meters located in driveways shall have traffic rated 
boxes and lids. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31 WASTEWATER CAPACITY CHARGE – A wastewater capacity charge, as established by San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.38.065, is imposed on all new development to recover a 
proportionate share of costs for existing and future wastewater system facilities and assets 
from new or expanded connections to City wastewater systems. The applicable 
wastewater capacity charge is determined by use, wastewater flow, and wastewater 
strength loadings and the amount shall be established by City Council resolution. The fee 
shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first 
superstructure building permit. The fee shall be based on the most current adopted fee 
schedule at the time of payment. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
32 WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT PHASE II IMPACT FEE – In order to meet the increased 
demands on the Wastewater Treatment Plant created by this project, the applicant shall 
contribute fees toward the Plant expansion based upon the average projected sanitary 
flow, as established by City Council Resolution No. 24 (2006). The fee shall be collected by 
the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first superstructure building 
permit. The fee shall be based on the fee schedule in effect on January 13, 2022. . (PUBLIC 
WORKS)

--- page 39 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP 
As approved on 1/20/2023 
Page 8 of 12 
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, ISSUANCE 
OF A TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, or ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, 
whichever occurs first. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
33 FINAL LANDSCAPING FOR SINGLE FAMILY PROJECTS – Apart from paved driveway and 
walkway areas, required front yard and street-side yard areas (if applicable) shall be 
improved with landscaping, which may consist of a combination of drought-tolerant plants 
and other organic and inorganic materials, except paving. If new landscaping is not 
proposed, any damaged landscaping shall be replaced with new landscaping as described 
above. Proposed new landscaping shall be shown on the building permit plans prior to 
permit issuance and all landscaping shall be installed prior to final inspection,  subject to 
the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
34 PLANNING FINAL INSPECTION – Upon completion of all construction and landscaping, the 
applicant shall request the Project Planner conduct a Planning Final inspection for  
verification of compliance with all outstanding conditions of approval. The applicant shall 
contact the Project Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance 
of the requested inspection. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
35 SOIL FINAL REPORT – The Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared the soil 
investigation, or an equally qualified professional, shall issue a final report stating the 
completed pad, foundation, finish grading and associated site work substantially conform 
to the approved plans, specifications and investigations, to the satisfaction of the Building 
Official or his/her designee. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
36 FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM – The applicant shall install a fire sprinkler system throughout the 
single-family dwelling in accordance with NFPA 13D or the California Residential Code 
subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her designee prior to the Fire 
Final Inspection. (FIRE)

--- page 40 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP 
As approved on 1/20/2023 
Page 9 of 12 
 
Parks and Recreation Department (PA) 
 
 
37 FINAL ARBORIST REPORT – The Project Arborist shall perform a final site inspection and 
submit a final arborist report to the Building Division. At minimum, the final arborist report 
shall confirm that the approved tree protection measures were implemented and shall 
assess the condition of Protected Tree(s). Any damage to existing Protected Tree(s) shall 
be subject to replacement and/or penalties in accordance with Municipal Code Section 
13.40.160 subject to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her 
designee. (CDD ARBORIST) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION PHASE 
OF THE PROJECT. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
38 FRAME/PLANNING ROUGH INSPECTION – Upon completion of all framing and prior to the 
installation of exterior sheathing and windows, the applicant shall request the Project 
Planner conduct a Rough Frame inspection to verify items including, but not limited to, 
window locations, window sizes, and massing. The applicant shall contact the Project 
Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance of the requested 
inspection. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
39 CONSTRUCTION WORK HOURS – Construction shall occur only between the hours of 7:00 
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on 
Saturday, and between 12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m. on Sundays and holidays. These hours do 
not apply to construction that takes place inside a completely enclosed building and does 
not exceed the exterior ambient noise level as measured 10 feet from the exterior 
property lines. The applicant shall conform to the construction work hours to control 
traffic congestion, noise, and dust unless an exemption is granted in accordance with 
Municipal Code Section 23.06.061. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
40 ADDRESS NUMBERS – The applicant shall post temporary address numbers on each 
building at the project site that must be easily visible from the street or fire access road. 
(FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
41 DEMOLITION – The applicant shall comply with the California Fire Code Chapter 33 during 
all phases of construction of the project. (FIRE)

--- page 41 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP 
As approved on 1/20/2023 
Page 10 of 12 
 
 
42 EGRESS – The applicant shall maintain required egress for all adjacent buildings/properties. 
(FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
Parks and Recreation Department (PA) 
 
 
43 PROJECT ARBORIST INSPECTIONS – The Project Arborist shall submit a report to the 
Building Division within five business days after each of his/her inspection documenting 
the condition of trees, protection measures changes or adjustments, and/or any damages 
to Protected trees. (CDD ARBORIST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44 TREE PROTECTION MEASURES – All approved tree protection measures shall remain in 
place and be properly maintained during all phases of construction. The applicant or 
contractor shall notify the Project Arborist in advance when construction operations are to 
be performed within the Tree Protection Zone of protected trees. (e.g. trenching, 
excavation, grade changes, etc.) Adjustment of Tree Protection Measures requires 
approval from the City Arborist.  (CDD ARBORIST) 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
45 ARCHITECTURAL COPPER – Per the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention 
Program’s requirements, the applicant shall follow the specific best management practices 
for the installation of the Architectural Copper. For detailed information please distribute 
the flyer to all construction personnel involved in the fabrication and installation of the 
Architectural Copper that is located at: https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-
stormwater-pollution/with-new-redevelopment/construction-best-practices/  (PUBLIC 
WORKS/BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
46 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – The applicant shall perform all construction 
activities in accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control 
Rules and Regulations (SMMC 7.39), and the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution 
Prevention Plan (SMCWPPP) by reference. Detailed information can be located at: 
https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-stormwater-pollution/with-new-
redevelopment/construction-best-practices/  
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
47 CONSTRUCTION WORKER PARKING – The applicant shall provide a construction-parking 
plan that minimizes the effect of construction worker parking in the neighborhood and 
shall include an estimate of the number of workers that will be present on the site during 
the various phases of construction and indicate where sufficient off-street parking will be 
utilized and identify any locations for off-site material deliveries. Said plan shall be 
approved by the Director of Public Works or designee prior to issuance of City permits and

--- page 42 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP 
As approved on 1/20/2023 
Page 11 of 12 
shall be complied with at all times during construction. Failure to enforce the parking plan 
may result in suspension of the City permits. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
48 MATERIAL HAULING – For material delivery vehicles equal to, or larger than two-axle, six-
tire single unit truck (SU) size or larger as defined by FHWA Standards, the applicant shall 
submit a truck hauling route that conforms to City of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 
11.28.040 for the approval of the Director of Public Works or designee. The project 
sponsor shall require contractors to prohibit trucks from using “compression release 
engine brakes” on residential streets. The haul route for this project shall be as approved 
by the Director of Public Works or designee. A letter from the applicant confirming the 
intention to use this hauling route shall be submitted to the Department of Public Works, 
and approved, prior to the issuance of any City permits. All material hauling activities 
including but not limited to, adherence to the approved route, hours of operation, staging 
of materials, dust control and street maintenance shall be the responsibility of the 
applicant. All storage and office trailers shall be kept off the public right-of-way. Tracking 
of dirt onto City streets and walks will not be allowed. Entry and exit from the site will use 
rock or rumble strips to prevent tracking. The applicant shall provide an approved method 
of cleaning tires and trimming loads on site. Any job related dirt and/or debris that impacts 
the public right of way shall be removed immediately. No wash down of dirt into storm 
drains is allowed. Use of a sweeper is permissible as long as it operates dry (no water used, 
only vacuum). All material hauling activities shall be done in accordance with applicable 
City ordinances and conditions of approval. Violation of such may be cause for suspension 
of work. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the project permitted by this 
planning application occupies the premises. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
49 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE AT ALL TIMES – All physical 
improvements, uses, and operational requirements authorized by the approved planning 
application shall, at all times that the use permitted by this planning application occupies 
the premises, substantially conform with the approved planning application. This includes 
but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and other items submitted as 
part of the approved planning application. Any proposed modifications to the approved 
planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the proposed modifications. The 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee shall determine whether the 
proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved planning application, or 
whether a planning application modification is required to be submitted to permit the 
proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications.  
(PLANNING)

--- page 43 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP 
As approved on 1/20/2023 
Page 12 of 12 
 
City Attorney (PA) 
 
 
50 INDEMNIFICATION – The applicant will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City of 
San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against 
any costs, claims, or liabilities arising out of the approval of this planning application, 
including, without limitation, any award of attorney fees that might result from third party 
challenge.  If applicant is required to defend the City, the City shall retain the right to select 
the counsel who shall defend the City.  (CITY ATTORNEY) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
51 PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.02.210-Violations of 
Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of the conditions of approval is 
unlawful and will subject the applicant to the penalties set forth in Chapter 1.04-General 
Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal Code as well as any other available legal remedies.  
(CITY ATTORNEY)

--- page 44 ---
David Bower
San Mateo, CA 94402

January 29, 2023

Re: Appeal of Decision by Zoning Administrator
Plan Number NIN-2022-034
125 15th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94402

My appeal focuses on three areas of the proposed project that | believe conflict with the
goals stated in City of San Mateo’s 2010 General Plan, the 2040 Draft General Plan and
the Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines. These are: 1) removal of a 21” Heritage
Oak tree, 2) loss of privacy for neighbors, and 3) shading of a photovoltaic array ona
neighboring dwelling.

1. Heritage Tree Ordinance

The “Protected Trees” Ordinance (S.M.M.C 13.40) adopted May 21, 2021, states as one
of its objectives to “Maintain and enhance the City’s tree canopy”. The project at 125
15‘ Avenue proposes to remove a 21”-diameter heritage oak tree located in the
building setback. Other simple but creative design options are available to create the
proposed ADU while preserving the existing heritage tree. For example, the proposed
additions to the existing garage could be located adjacent to the tree and still achieve
the new proposed ADU. There is ample space on the rear setback to accommodate the
proposed additions.

The substitution of two 24” box trees as a remedy to removal of the existing tree will
require 20-plus years to achieve the current canopy size. Because there are other
options that don’t require the removal of the Heritage tree, | urge the board to reject
this portion of the application and send it back to the Planning Department for further
consideration.

2. Loss of privacy

The Single-Family Dwelling Design guidelines recognize neighborhood concerns that
new single family dwellings be compatible with existing neighborhood buildings, not
create impacts on views and conserve privacy of neighboring buildings, among other
goals. The proposed dwelling fails to meet these goals.


--- page 45 ---
There are 24 residences in the 100 block of 15° Avenue. Twenty-one (21) of those
houses are single-story. Of the remaining three residences, two have second-story
additions that are located in the rear half of the building. One building is a grossly
oversized three-story building that reflects poor urban planning. The existing
neighborhood buildings directly surrounding the proposed project site are all single-
story structures. The proposed new building at 125 15" Avenue is designed with two
stories and is scaled to the maximum building envelope, with the second-story mass
running the length of the building from front to back (with modest front and rear
offsets). Among the 24 residences on the block, only one---built before design
guidelines were developed---is larger in mass and scale than this proposed project. In
previous comments to the Planning Department, | made suggestions for lowering the
proposed building without sacrificing design goals. These suggestions include: 1) 8’-6”
first-floor plate height; 2) 7’-9” second-floor plate height (with vaulted ceilings); and 3)
11 7/8” second-floor joists. These three simple changes would make the primary
structure more compatible with the surrounding neighborhood buildings and reduce the
overall building height by a significant 3’-1” without altering the basic design or
aesthetic appeal. | urge the board to reject this design proposal and return it to the
Planning Department to consider these suggestions for maintaining existing neighbors’
privacy.

3. Shading of the Photovoltaic Array

In the Sustainable Design section, the General Plan also encourages new projects to
“locate and orient structures on a parce! ... to take full advantage of solar opportunities
and shading...”. In the Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines, section 8a says:
“Recognize established views from the primary living areas of neighboring houses and
design house additions to minimize view blockage of those views”. Blocking the view of
the sun on a photovoltaic array is no different that blocking a view of the bay in the San
Mateo hills: Both have economic implications to the neighboring residents. The
proposed primary dwelling at 125 15" Avenue fails to meet either of these goals.

The current proposal will block sunlight access to an existing photovoltaic array installed
at 129 15" Avenue. City of San Mateo Ordinance Chapter 23.46 describes permitting for
Small Residential Rooftop Solar Energy Systems. Paragraph 23.46.020 (e) defines
reasonable restrictions on a solar energy system as those that “...do not significantly
increase the cost of the system or significantly decrease its efficiency or specified
performance”. While these restriction definitions focus on the initial installation of a
photovoltaic array, it seems reasonable to apply them to a subsequent development. It
is widely understood that residential photovoltaic arrays are the best option for


--- page 46 ---
electricity production and reducing the load on the statewide electric grid, which is an
urgent need supported by the City of San Mateo. They are point-of-use systems that
have zero transmission loss and are paid for and maintained by the property owners.
For these reasons, Federal and State governments and City of San Mateo encourage and
partially subsidize the purchase and installation of these systems. Blocking sunlight to
the existing photovoltaic array at 129 15‘® Avenue reduces local energy production and
increases stress on the grid. Reduced residential energy production diminishes the
value of the photovoltaic array, which in turn lowers the property’s value and requires
the purchase of the electric production lost.

If the project at 125 15" Avenue is built as currently designed, it diminishes the value of
every property in San Mateo with a photovoltaic array. Moreover, it contradicts the
Sustainability goals in the General Plan and turns San Mateo’s energy conservation goals
on its head. The Planning Department has guidelines for preparation of Shadow Studies
that it should have applied to this project to protect the permitted investment of
adjacent property owners. Failure to request this simple evaluation subjects the city
and the developer of this project to potential financial loss claims. A shadow study
should be required to protect all city residents with photovoltaic arrays from loss. | urge
the board to reject this design proposal and return it to the Planning Department to
consider these suggestions for preserving sun access to the existing photovoltaic array.

Summary

My appeal is based upon my 45 years of experience as a residential building contractor
on the Peninsula, including in neighborhoods exactly like the 100 block of 15 Avenue.
The recommendations | have made above for a shadow study and redesign of the ADU
to save the Heritage tree would create only a modest cost to the developer. Lowering
the ceiling heights and reducing the floor joist size represent cost savings for the
developer. Protecting the sunlight access to the existing photovoltaic array at 129 15"
Avenue is a huge potential cost savings for all City of San Mateo homeowners who have
installed photovoltaic arrays. For all these reasons, | believe a reconsideration of this
project approval is a win for all parties involved.

Sincerely,
NOR

David Bower

San Mateo, CA 94402


--- page 47 ---
FOR REFERENCE ONLY 
Att 4 – Location Map 
 
PA‐2021‐049 
125 15th Ave., SUP + SFDDR 
 
Address: 125 15th Ave. 
Parcel Number (APN): 034‐294‐120 
 
 
500 feet

--- page 48 ---
NOR
TH
LEGE
ND:
125 15TH AVE. 
SAN MATEO,
AMS
NEW 
DETACHED 
ADU
NEW 
ADDITION
2ND FLOOR
PRIVATE 
WAY
GRAPHIC 
SCALE : 1/4 INCH
= 1 
FEET
0 1 2 3 4 5
10
15
DESI
GN
CA 
9440
2
PROPERTY LINE
BLDG 1ST FLOOR 
FOOTPRINT LINE
BLDG 2ND FLOOR 
FOOTPRINT LINE
AMSD
ESIGN
PRIVATE 
WAY
40.0
0'
40.0
0'
DIMENSION OF PRIVATE 
WAY WIDTH
BASED ON PARCEL 
MAP
F
F
4010 MOORPARK 
AVE#101,
SAN JOSE, CA 
95117
TELL: 
(415)254.1606
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
10'-6"
"EX" UTILITY 
POLE
12'-4"
E-MAIL: 
OFFICE@AMSDESIGNLLP
.COM
GENERAL 
NOTES:
VICINITY 
MAP:
Azadeh 
Masrour
THESE PLANS ARE INTENDED ONLY FOR THE 
ORIGINAL SITE FOR WHICH
THEY WERE DESIGNED AND ARE THE 
PROPERTY OF AMS DESIGN. THESE
PLANS ARE PROTECTED UNDER COPYRIGHT 
LAWS AND MAY NOT BE
REVISED OR REPRODUCED IN WHOLE OR 
IN PART WITHOUT THE
EXPRESSED WRITTEN CONSENT OF AMS 
DESIGN. ANY USE OF THESE
PLANS ON OTHER SITES IS PROHIBITED 
WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF AMS
DESIGN. ANY DISCREPANCY DISCOVERED ON 
THESE PLANS SHALL PRIOR
TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE WORK IN 
QUESTION. ALL WRITTEN
DIMENSIONS SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER 
SCALED DIMENSIONS.
ALL WORK DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS SHALL 
BE VERIFIED FOR DIMENSION,
GRADE, EXTENT AND COMPATIBILITY TO 
THE EXISTING SITE. ANY
DISCREPANCIES AND UNEXPECTED 
CONDITIONS THAT AFFECT OR CHANGE
THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THE CONTRACT 
DOCUMENTS SHALL BE BROUGHT
TO THE AMS DESIGN’S ATTENTION IMMEDIATELY. 
DO NOT PROCEED WITH THE
WORK IN THE AREA OF DISCREPANCIES UNTIL 
ALL SUCH DISCREPANCIES ARE
RESOLVED. IF THE CONTRACTOR CHOOSES 
TO DO SO HE SHALL BE
PRECEDING AT HIS OWN RISK.
0'-8"
OMISSIONS FROM THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS OR THE MIS-
DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK WHICH IS 
MANIFESTLY NECESSARY TO CARRY
OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS, OR WHICH IS
CUSTOMARILY REFORMED, SHALL NOT 
RELIEVE THE CONTRACTOR FROM
PERFORMING SUCH OMITTED OR MIS-DESCRIBED 
DETAILS OF THE WORK AS IF
FULLY AND COMPLETELY SET FORTH AND 
DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS AND
SPECIFICATIONS.
1'-4"
21" OAK TREE 
TO BE
REMOVED 
REFER
ARBORIST 
REPORT
16'' 
TREE
FOR 
DETAILS
4'
SITE CONDITIONS: ALL CONTRACTORS AND SUB-
CONTRACTORS SHALL VERIFY
DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS AT THE SITE 
PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF
THEIR WORK. FAILURE TO DO SO SHALL NOT 
RELEASE THEM FROM THE
RESPONSIBILITY OF ESTIMATING THE WORK. IF 
ANY VARIATION, DISCREPANCY
OR OMISSION (BETWEEN THE INTENT OF THESE 
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND
THE EXISTING CONDITIONS ARE FOUND, 
THE CONTRACTOR OR SUB-
CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY AMS DESIGN IN 
WRITING AND OBTAIN WRITTEN
RESOLUTION FROM AMS DESIGN PRIOR TO 
PROCEEDING WITH ANY RELATED
WORK.
22'-9"
10'' TREE 
TRUNK TO
BE 
REMOVED
PROJECT 
NAME:
10'' 
TREE
HVAC 
(ADU)
PROJECT 
DATA:
15TH 
AVE.
ELEC. 
METER
PROJECT 
CONTACT:
RESIDE
NCE
15'-
1"
ASSESSOR'S 
PARCEL NUMBER:
PROJECT TYPE:
PROJECT LOCATION:
034294
120
NEW 
CONSTRUCTION
125 15TH AVE. 
SAN MATEO,
CA 94402
5'-9"
WIN.
4 : 12
GAS 
METER
9'-8"
2ND 
FLOOR
125 15TH AVE.,
SAN MATEO, 
CA 94402
WIN.
OWNE
R:
SOUTHWEST 
INVESTMENTS 
FUNDS,LLC
(650)274-8890 1221
ZONIN
G:
R1C
R - 3 / U
V - B
TWO (2) 
STORY
SPRINKLE
RED
OCCUPANCY 
GROUP:
CONSTRUCTIO
N TYPE:
NUMBER OF 
FLOORS:
FIRE 
PROTECTION:
125 15TH AVE. SAN 
MATEO, CA 94402
REVISION 
TABLE:
DESIGN
ER:
AMS 
DESIGN
4'-9"
(415) 254-1606
4010 MOORPARK AVE#101, 
SAN JOSE, CA 95117
AZADEH@AMSDESIGNLLP.CO
M
9'-8"
2ND 
FLOOR
CUBIC YARDS OF SOIL 
DISTURBANCE: 
NA
REVISION 
DATE
JULY.202
2
BY DE
P
THIS 
STRUCTURE TO 
BE
DEMO.
01
S.A. 
PLN
STRUCTU
RAL:
AMS DESIGN
(415) 254 -2634
4010 MOORPARK AVE#101, 
SAN JOSE, CA 95117
ARMIN@AMSDESIGNLLP.COM
TREE
THE MAIN HOUSE AND 
ADU/GARAGE REQUIRE A 13D
FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM.
"EX" TREE TO 
REMAIN
DRAWING 
INDEX:
CODE 
EDITIONS:
5'
A-00.01:
A-00.02:
COVER SHEET/ EXISTING & PROPOSED SITE 
PLAN
EXISTING & PROPOSED ROOF PLAN / 3D VIEWS / 
ADJACENT BUILDINGS FRONT
ELEVATION
A. CALIFORNIA 
RESIDENTIAL:
B. CALIFORNIA 
BUILDING:
2019 
EDITION
2019 
EDITION
2019 
EDITION
2019 
EDITION
2019 
EDITION
2019 
EDITION
2019 
EDITION
2019 
EDITION
A-00.03:
A-00.04:
A-00.05:
BT1:
BT2:
C0:
PHOTOS OF PROJECT
ARBORIST REPORT
ARBORIST REPORT
BOUNDARY AND 
TOPOGRAPHIC MAP
BOUNDARY AND 
TOPOGRAPHIC MAP
COVER SHEET
ALL WORK DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS 
SHALL BE VERIFIED FOR
DIMENSION, GRADE, EXTENT AND 
COMPATIBILITY TO THE EXISTING SITE.
ANY DISCREPANCIES AND UNEXPECTED 
CONDITIONS THAT AFFECT OR
CHANGE THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THE 
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS SHALL
BE BROUGHT TO THE AMS DESIGN’S 
ATTENTION IMMEDIATELY. DO NOT
PROCEED WITH THE WORK IN THE AREA OF 
DISCREPANCIES UNTIL ALL
SUCH DISCREPANCIES ARE RESOLVED. IF THE 
CONTRACTOR CHOOSES
TO DO SO HE SHALL BE PRECEDING AT HIS 
OWN RISK.
C. CALIFORNIA 
MECHANICAL:
D. CALIFORNIA 
PLUMBING:
E. CALIFORNIA 
ELECTRICAL:
F. CALIFORNIA 
ENERGY:
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
COVER
ED
PORC
H
5'
8'-5"
G. 
CALIFORNIA 
FIRE:
5'-4"
H. CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING:
I. ANY OTHER APPLICABLE 
LOCAL AND STATE LAWS
AND REGULATIONS.
OMISSIONS FROM THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS OR THE MIS-
DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK WHICH IS 
MANIFESTLY NECESSARY TO
CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS 
AND SPECIFICATIONS, OR
WHICH IS CUSTOMARILY REFORMED, 
SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE
CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING SUCH 
OMITTED OR MIS-DESCRIBED
DETAILS OF THE WORK AS IF FULLY AND 
COMPLETELY SET FORTH AND
DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS.
C1:
GRADING AND 
DRAINAGE PLAN
C2:
CONSTRUCTION 
DETAILS
WIN.
C3:
C4:
C5:
EROSION AND SEDIMENT 
CONTROL PLAN
BEST MANAGEMENT 
PRACTICES (BMP SHEET)
COUNTY STANDARD DETAILS
WIN.
4'-4"
4 : 12
F
F
F
F
F
SITE CONDITIONS: ALL CONTRACTORS AND 
SUB-CONTRACTORS SHALL
VERIFY DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS AT 
THE SITE PRIOR TO
COMMENCEMENT OF THEIR WORK. FAILURE 
TO DO SO SHALL NOT
RELEASE THEM FROM THE RESPONSIBILITY 
OF ESTIMATING THE WORK.
IF ANY VARIATION, DISCREPANCY OR 
OMISSION (BETWEEN THE INTENT
OF THESE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND THE 
EXISTING CONDITIONS ARE
FOUND, THE CONTRACTOR OR SUB-
CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY AMS
DESIGN IN WRITING AND OBTAIN WRITTEN 
RESOLUTION FROM AMS
DESIGN PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH ANY 
RELATED WORK.
L1:
L2:
L3:
L4:
PLANTING PLAN
IRRIGATION PLAN
IRRIGATION NOTES
PLANTING AND 
IRRIGATION NOTES
PLANTING AND 
IRRIGATION NOTES
EXISTING FLOOR 
PLAN
SCOPE OF 
WORK:
COVERED 
PATIO
10'' 
TREE
L5:
7'
RA-
01.01:
RA-
02.01:
A-01.01:
A-01.02:
A-02.01:
A-02.02:
A-02.03:
A-03.01:
NEW 2 STORY CUSTOME HOME
2325 SQ LIVING AREA INCLUDING 4 BEDS, 3 BATH, 
1 LAUNDRY.
BUILD 786 SQF. DETACHED ADU.(CONVERT 328 
SQF. OF "EX" GARAGE TO THE
ADU.)
EXISTING 
ELEVATIONS
SHEET 
TITLE:
(N) CLEANOUT 
PER
COUNTY STDS. 
WITHIN 5'
OF PL. SEE 
DETAIL C-3
SHEET C5
PROPOSED 1ST FLOOR PLAN (MAIN HOUSE & 
ADU)
PROPOSED 2ND FLOOR PLAN (MAIN HOUSE) / 
FLOOR AREA DIAGRAM
PROPOSED ELEVATIONS (MAIN HOUSE)
PROPOSED ELEVATIONS (MAIN HOUSE)
PROPOSED ELEVATIONS & SECTIONS (ADU) / 
EXTERIOR MATERIAL SCHEDULE
PROPOSED SECTIONS (MAIN HOUSE)
WALK 
WAY
COVER SHEET/ 
EXISTING
& PROPOSED 
SITE PLAN
40.0
0'
40.0
0'
USE "EX" 4" SANITARY 
LATERAL.
CONTRACTOR TO 
VERIFY EXACT
WATE
RMETE
R
LOCATION, CONDITION, 
SIZE, & SLOPE.
AREA 
CALCULATIO
N:
SETBACK 
INFORMATION:
STREET 
TREE
STREET 
TREE
PROJEC
T ID:
----
"EX" SIDE 
WALK
"EX" CURB 
SIDE
"EX" SIDE 
WALK
"EX" CURB 
SIDE
DAT
E:
JAN.20
22
1/8'' = 
1'
"E" LIVING AREA:
"E" DETACHED 
GARAGE:
"E" BUILDING 
AREA:
"N" 1ST FLOOR 
LIVING AREA:
"N" 2ND FLOOR 
LIVING AREA:
"N" TOTAL LIVING 
AREA:
FRONT PATIO 
(EXEMPT):
"N" ADU LIVING 
AREA:
"N" ADU GARAGE:
1250 
SQF
EXIS
T.
PROPOS
ED
MAIN HOUSE
328 
SQF
1578 
SQF
1408 
SQF
830 
SQF
2238 
SQF
77 SQF
582 
SQF
199 
SQF
781 
SQF
5000 
SQF
ALLOW
ED
REQ.
SETBA
CKS
MAI
N
GARA
GE
SCAL
E:
AD
U
HOUS
E
2" DIA ELM TREE TO 
REMAIN,REFER
ARBORIST REPORT FOR 
DETAILS
3" DIA ELM TREE TO 
REMAIN,REFER
ARBORIST REPORT FOR 
DETAILS
FRON
T
REAR
17'-
8''
2'-
11''
16'-
7''
57'-
5''
2'-
11''
15'
15'
DRAWN 
BY:
S.A.
53'-
10''
102'-
0''
TO 
PROPERTY 
LINE
83'-
2''
15'-
7''
15TH 
AVE,
15TH 
AVE,
TO MAIN 
HOUSE
SHEET 
NUMBER:
RIGH
T
LEFT
4'-9''
4'-4''
23'-
9''
0'-1''
5'-0''
5'-0''
12'-
4''
0'-1''
5'
5'
EXISTING 
SITE PLAN
PROPOSED 
SITE PLAN
1
2
"N" TOTAL 
DETACHED ADU:
LOT AREA:
SC : 1/8" = 
1'-0"
SC : 1/8" = 
1'-0"
A-
00.0
1
CENTERLINE OF 
15TH AVE,
CENTERLINE OF 
15TH AVE,
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR) = 
((2238+199)/5000)X100= 48.7 %

--- page 49 ---
AMS
0'-8"
0'-8"
1'-4"
3D VIEW - 
FRONT
3D VIEW - 
RIGHT
DESI
GN
AMSD
ESIGN
4010 MOORPARK 
AVE#101,
SAN JOSE, CA 
95117
TELL: 
(415)254.1606
E-MAIL: 
OFFICE@AMSDESIGNLLP
.COM
1'-4"
Azadeh 
Masrour
THESE PLANS ARE INTENDED ONLY FOR THE 
ORIGINAL SITE FOR WHICH
THEY WERE DESIGNED AND ARE THE 
PROPERTY OF AMS DESIGN. THESE
PLANS ARE PROTECTED UNDER COPYRIGHT 
LAWS AND MAY NOT BE
REVISED OR REPRODUCED IN WHOLE OR 
IN PART WITHOUT THE
EXPRESSED WRITTEN CONSENT OF AMS 
DESIGN. ANY USE OF THESE
PLANS ON OTHER SITES IS PROHIBITED 
WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF AMS
DESIGN. ANY DISCREPANCY DISCOVERED ON 
THESE PLANS SHALL PRIOR
TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE WORK IN 
QUESTION. ALL WRITTEN
DIMENSIONS SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER 
SCALED DIMENSIONS.
1'-4"
HVAC 
(ADU)
ELEC. 
METER
4 : 12
GAS 
METER
1'-4"
3D VIEW - 
REAR
3D VIEW - 
LEFT
1'-4"
PROJECT 
NAME:
15TH 
AVE.
RESIDE
NCE
125 15TH AVE.,
SAN MATEO, 
CA 94402
FLAT 
ROOF
REVISION 
TABLE:
1'-4"
REVISION 
DATE
JULY.202
2
BY DE
P
1'-4"
01
S.A. 
PLN
1'-4"
4 : 12
ALL WORK DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS 
SHALL BE VERIFIED FOR
DIMENSION, GRADE, EXTENT AND 
COMPATIBILITY TO THE EXISTING SITE.
ANY DISCREPANCIES AND UNEXPECTED 
CONDITIONS THAT AFFECT OR
CHANGE THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THE 
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS SHALL
BE BROUGHT TO THE AMS DESIGN’S 
ATTENTION IMMEDIATELY. DO NOT
PROCEED WITH THE WORK IN THE AREA OF 
DISCREPANCIES UNTIL ALL
SUCH DISCREPANCIES ARE RESOLVED. IF THE 
CONTRACTOR CHOOSES
TO DO SO HE SHALL BE PRECEDING AT HIS 
OWN RISK.
EXISTING 
ROOF PLAN
PROPOSED 
ROOF PLAN
1
2
SC : 1/8" = 
1'-0"
SC : 1/8" = 
1'-0"
OMISSIONS FROM THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS OR THE MIS-
DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK WHICH IS 
MANIFESTLY NECESSARY TO
CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS 
AND SPECIFICATIONS, OR
WHICH IS CUSTOMARILY REFORMED, 
SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE
CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING SUCH 
OMITTED OR MIS-DESCRIBED
DETAILS OF THE WORK AS IF FULLY AND 
COMPLETELY SET FORTH AND
DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS.
SITE CONDITIONS: ALL CONTRACTORS AND 
SUB-CONTRACTORS SHALL
VERIFY DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS AT 
THE SITE PRIOR TO
COMMENCEMENT OF THEIR WORK. FAILURE 
TO DO SO SHALL NOT
RELEASE THEM FROM THE RESPONSIBILITY 
OF ESTIMATING THE WORK.
IF ANY VARIATION, DISCREPANCY OR 
OMISSION (BETWEEN THE INTENT
OF THESE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND THE 
EXISTING CONDITIONS ARE
FOUND, THE CONTRACTOR OR SUB-
CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY AMS
DESIGN IN WRITING AND OBTAIN WRITTEN 
RESOLUTION FROM AMS
DESIGN PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH ANY 
RELATED WORK.
25'-9" TOP 
HT.
ABOVE 
N.GRADE
NEW 40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLEROOF
4
12
4 4
9' PLATE 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
12
12
SHEET 
TITLE:
EXISTING & 
PROPOSED
ROOF PLAN / 
3D VIEWS /
ADJACENT 
BUILDINGS
FRONT 
ELEVATION
W17-
5050
W17-
5050
17'-9" TOP 
HT.
ABOVE 
N.GRADE
16'-8" TOP 
HT.
ABOVE 
N.GRADE
NEW 40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLE
ROOF
F.F. 2ND 
FLOOR
4
12
4
4
10' PLATE 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
12
12
PROJEC
T ID:
----
8' PLATE 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
8' PLATE 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
DAT
E:
JAN.20
22
5'-0"
5'-0"
5' FROM 
SETBACK
5' FROM 
SETBACK
LINE TO 
THE
EXTERIOR 
WALL
W04-
3050
W04-
3050
W04-
3050
W12-
3050
W11-
3050
W11-
3050
LINE TO 
THE
EXTERIOR 
WALL
SCAL
E:
1/8'' = 1' - 
N.T.S.
D12-
3680
30'' 
ABOVE
30'' 
ABOVE
NATURAL 
GRADE
NATURAL 
GRADE
F.F.
F.F.
MAX. 
RISE=7 3/4"
16'' ABOVE
NATURAL 
GRADE
STUCC
O
DRAWN 
BY:
S.A.
F.F.
Gas 
Meter
NATURAL 
GRADE LINE
NATURAL 
GRADE LINE
NATURAL 
GRADE LINE
SHEET 
NUMBER:A-
00.0
2
121 15TH 
AVE.
125 15TH 
AVE.
129 15TH 
AVE.

--- page 50 ---
AMS
DESI
GN
AMSD
ESIGN
4010 MOORPARK 
AVE#101,
SAN JOSE, CA 
95117
TELL: (415)254.1606
E-MAIL: 
OFFICE@AMSDESIGNLLP
.COM
Azadeh 
Masrour
THESE PLANS ARE INTENDED ONLY FOR THE 
ORIGINAL SITE FOR WHICH
THEY WERE DESIGNED AND ARE THE 
PROPERTY OF AMS DESIGN. THESE
PLANS ARE PROTECTED UNDER COPYRIGHT 
LAWS AND MAY NOT BE
REVISED OR REPRODUCED IN WHOLE OR 
IN PART WITHOUT THE
EXPRESSED WRITTEN CONSENT OF AMS 
DESIGN. ANY USE OF THESE
PLANS ON OTHER SITES IS PROHIBITED 
WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF AMS
DESIGN. ANY DISCREPANCY DISCOVERED ON 
THESE PLANS SHALL PRIOR
TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE WORK IN 
QUESTION. ALL WRITTEN
DIMENSIONS SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER 
SCALED DIMENSIONS.
121 15TH 
AVE.
125 15TH 
AVE.
129 15TH 
AVE.
PROJECT 
NAME:
15TH 
AVE.
RESIDE
NCE
125 15TH AVE.,
SAN MATEO, 
CA 94402
REVISION 
TABLE:
REVISION 
DATE
JULY.202
2
BY DE
P
01
S.A. 
PLN
ALL WORK DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS 
SHALL BE VERIFIED FOR
DIMENSION, GRADE, EXTENT AND 
COMPATIBILITY TO THE EXISTING SITE.
ANY DISCREPANCIES AND UNEXPECTED 
CONDITIONS THAT AFFECT OR
CHANGE THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THE 
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS SHALL
BE BROUGHT TO THE AMS DESIGN’S 
ATTENTION IMMEDIATELY. DO NOT
PROCEED WITH THE WORK IN THE AREA OF 
DISCREPANCIES UNTIL ALL
SUCH DISCREPANCIES ARE RESOLVED. IF THE 
CONTRACTOR CHOOSES
TO DO SO HE SHALL BE PRECEDING AT HIS 
OWN RISK.
125 15TH AVE. - 
SITE INTERIOR
125 15TH AVE. - 
SITE INTERIOR
125 15TH AVE. - 
SITE INTERIOR
OMISSIONS FROM THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS OR THE MIS-
DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK WHICH IS 
MANIFESTLY NECESSARY TO
CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS 
AND SPECIFICATIONS, OR
WHICH IS CUSTOMARILY REFORMED, 
SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE
CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING SUCH 
OMITTED OR MIS-DESCRIBED
DETAILS OF THE WORK AS IF FULLY AND 
COMPLETELY SET FORTH AND
DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS.
SITE CONDITIONS: ALL CONTRACTORS AND 
SUB-CONTRACTORS SHALL
VERIFY DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS AT 
THE SITE PRIOR TO
COMMENCEMENT OF THEIR WORK. FAILURE 
TO DO SO SHALL NOT
RELEASE THEM FROM THE RESPONSIBILITY 
OF ESTIMATING THE WORK.
IF ANY VARIATION, DISCREPANCY OR 
OMISSION (BETWEEN THE INTENT
OF THESE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND THE 
EXISTING CONDITIONS ARE
FOUND, THE CONTRACTOR OR SUB-
CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY AMS
DESIGN IN WRITING AND OBTAIN WRITTEN 
RESOLUTION FROM AMS
DESIGN PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH ANY 
RELATED WORK.
SHEET 
TITLE:
PHOTOS OF 
PROJECT
PROJEC
T ID:
----
DAT
E:
JAN.20
22
N.T.
S.
SCAL
E:
DRAWN 
BY:
S.A.
SHEET 
NUMBER:A-
00.0
3
PRIVATE 
ALLEYWAY
PRIVATE 
ALLEYWAY
PRIVATE 
ALLEYWAY

--- page 51 ---
AMS
DESI
GN
AMSD
ESIGN
4010 MOORPARK 
AVE#101,
SAN JOSE, CA 
95117
TELL: (415)254.1606
E-MAIL: 
OFFICE@AMSDESIGNLLP
.COM
Azadeh 
Masrour
THESE PLANS ARE INTENDED ONLY FOR THE 
ORIGINAL SITE FOR WHICH
THEY WERE DESIGNED AND ARE THE 
PROPERTY OF AMS DESIGN. THESE
PLANS ARE PROTECTED UNDER COPYRIGHT 
LAWS AND MAY NOT BE
REVISED OR REPRODUCED IN WHOLE OR 
IN PART WITHOUT THE
EXPRESSED WRITTEN CONSENT OF AMS 
DESIGN. ANY USE OF THESE
PLANS ON OTHER SITES IS PROHIBITED 
WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF AMS
DESIGN. ANY DISCREPANCY DISCOVERED ON 
THESE PLANS SHALL PRIOR
TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE WORK IN 
QUESTION. ALL WRITTEN
DIMENSIONS SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER 
SCALED DIMENSIONS.
PROJECT 
NAME:
15TH 
AVE.
RESIDE
NCE
125 15TH AVE.,
SAN MATEO, 
CA 94402
REVISION 
TABLE:
REVISION 
DATE
JULY.202
2
BY DE
P
01
S.A. 
PLN
ALL WORK DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS 
SHALL BE VERIFIED FOR
DIMENSION, GRADE, EXTENT AND 
COMPATIBILITY TO THE EXISTING SITE.
ANY DISCREPANCIES AND UNEXPECTED 
CONDITIONS THAT AFFECT OR
CHANGE THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THE 
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS SHALL
BE BROUGHT TO THE AMS DESIGN’S 
ATTENTION IMMEDIATELY. DO NOT
PROCEED WITH THE WORK IN THE AREA OF 
DISCREPANCIES UNTIL ALL
SUCH DISCREPANCIES ARE RESOLVED. IF THE 
CONTRACTOR CHOOSES
TO DO SO HE SHALL BE PRECEDING AT HIS 
OWN RISK.
OMISSIONS FROM THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS OR THE MIS-
DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK WHICH IS 
MANIFESTLY NECESSARY TO
CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS 
AND SPECIFICATIONS, OR
WHICH IS CUSTOMARILY REFORMED, 
SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE
CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING SUCH 
OMITTED OR MIS-DESCRIBED
DETAILS OF THE WORK AS IF FULLY AND 
COMPLETELY SET FORTH AND
DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS.
SITE CONDITIONS: ALL CONTRACTORS AND 
SUB-CONTRACTORS SHALL
VERIFY DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS AT 
THE SITE PRIOR TO
COMMENCEMENT OF THEIR WORK. FAILURE 
TO DO SO SHALL NOT
RELEASE THEM FROM THE RESPONSIBILITY 
OF ESTIMATING THE WORK.
IF ANY VARIATION, DISCREPANCY OR 
OMISSION (BETWEEN THE INTENT
OF THESE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND THE 
EXISTING CONDITIONS ARE
FOUND, THE CONTRACTOR OR SUB-
CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY AMS
DESIGN IN WRITING AND OBTAIN WRITTEN 
RESOLUTION FROM AMS
DESIGN PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH ANY 
RELATED WORK.
SHEET 
TITLE:ARBO
RIST
REPO
RT
PROJEC
T ID:
----
DAT
E:
JAN.20
22
N.T.
S
SCAL
E:
DRAWN 
BY:
S.A.
SHEET 
NUMBER:A-
00.0
4

--- page 52 ---
AMS
DESI
GN
AMSD
ESIGN
4010 MOORPARK 
AVE#101,
SAN JOSE, CA 
95117
TELL: (415)254.1606
E-MAIL: 
OFFICE@AMSDESIGNLLP
.COM
Azadeh 
Masrour
THESE PLANS ARE INTENDED ONLY FOR THE 
ORIGINAL SITE FOR WHICH
THEY WERE DESIGNED AND ARE THE 
PROPERTY OF AMS DESIGN. THESE
PLANS ARE PROTECTED UNDER COPYRIGHT 
LAWS AND MAY NOT BE
REVISED OR REPRODUCED IN WHOLE OR 
IN PART WITHOUT THE
EXPRESSED WRITTEN CONSENT OF AMS 
DESIGN. ANY USE OF THESE
PLANS ON OTHER SITES IS PROHIBITED 
WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF AMS
DESIGN. ANY DISCREPANCY DISCOVERED ON 
THESE PLANS SHALL PRIOR
TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE WORK IN 
QUESTION. ALL WRITTEN
DIMENSIONS SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER 
SCALED DIMENSIONS.
PROJECT 
NAME:
15TH 
AVE.
RESIDE
NCE
125 15TH AVE.,
SAN MATEO, 
CA 94402
REVISION 
TABLE:
REVISION 
DATE
JULY.202
2
BY DE
P
01
S.A. 
PLN
ALL WORK DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS 
SHALL BE VERIFIED FOR
DIMENSION, GRADE, EXTENT AND 
COMPATIBILITY TO THE EXISTING SITE.
ANY DISCREPANCIES AND UNEXPECTED 
CONDITIONS THAT AFFECT OR
CHANGE THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THE 
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS SHALL
BE BROUGHT TO THE AMS DESIGN’S 
ATTENTION IMMEDIATELY. DO NOT
PROCEED WITH THE WORK IN THE AREA OF 
DISCREPANCIES UNTIL ALL
SUCH DISCREPANCIES ARE RESOLVED. IF THE 
CONTRACTOR CHOOSES
TO DO SO HE SHALL BE PRECEDING AT HIS 
OWN RISK.
OMISSIONS FROM THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS OR THE MIS-
DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK WHICH IS 
MANIFESTLY NECESSARY TO
CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS 
AND SPECIFICATIONS, OR
WHICH IS CUSTOMARILY REFORMED, 
SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE
CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING SUCH 
OMITTED OR MIS-DESCRIBED
DETAILS OF THE WORK AS IF FULLY AND 
COMPLETELY SET FORTH AND
DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS.
SITE CONDITIONS: ALL CONTRACTORS AND 
SUB-CONTRACTORS SHALL
VERIFY DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS AT 
THE SITE PRIOR TO
COMMENCEMENT OF THEIR WORK. FAILURE 
TO DO SO SHALL NOT
RELEASE THEM FROM THE RESPONSIBILITY 
OF ESTIMATING THE WORK.
IF ANY VARIATION, DISCREPANCY OR 
OMISSION (BETWEEN THE INTENT
OF THESE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND THE 
EXISTING CONDITIONS ARE
FOUND, THE CONTRACTOR OR SUB-
CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY AMS
DESIGN IN WRITING AND OBTAIN WRITTEN 
RESOLUTION FROM AMS
DESIGN PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH ANY 
RELATED WORK.
SHEET 
TITLE:ARBO
RIST
REPO
RT
PROJEC
T ID:
----
DAT
E:
JAN.20
22
N.T.
S
SCAL
E:
DRAWN 
BY:
S.A.
SHEET 
NUMBER:A-
00.0
5

--- page 53 ---
LEGEND

---200-—-

EXISTING CONTOUR LINE
NATURAL GRADE CONTOUR] INE

FOND CITY MONUMENT Ex, OR AS NOTED
BOJNOARY OF PROBERTY SURVEYED

RECORD INFORMATION
CENTERINE «=

CURB INLET
CURB LINE
DRIVEWAY APRON
ELECTROLIER
FENCE

FIRE HYDRANT
FLAT GRATE INLET
OVERHEAD POWER LINE
OVERHEAD TELEPHONE LIN}
SANITARY SEWER LINE
SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE
SANITARY SEWER CLEANCUF
SIGN

STORM DRANN LINE
STORM RAN. MANHOLE
UTILITY BOX
UTILITY POLE
WATER LINE
WATER METER
WATER VALVE
ELECTRIC METER
WATER HEATER
CAS

$41°27'32"E_125.00'

N48°32'28"E_130.00"

N48'32'28"E_ 130.00"

PRIVATE WAY

40.00"

LOT 3

R

N48°32'28"E_130.00"

LOT 7
RI
APN NO.: 034-294-120

LOT GROSS AREA: 5,0002 SF

BENCHMARK:

ELV, 13.39"
oo MAG NAIL

FOUND SET 3" BRASS
TAG "LS 7701”

R2

(BASIS OF BEARINGS)
N64°46'19"E 468.68 M-M CALC PER R2

N48"32'28"E_130.00'

40.00"

40.00"

LOT 30

RI

FOUND SET }”
BRASS TAG "7701"
R2

40.00

OS48'32'28"W 40.01" R2
s

°

s

PRIVATE WAY

40.00"

$483228°W 40.07 R2"

BASIS OF BEARINGS

THE BEARING NORTH 64°46'19" EAST OF THE CENTER LINE OF 15TH AVE AS
SHOWN ON THAT MAP OF SUBDIVISION NO 3 FILED FOR RECORD IN BOOK 5 OF
MAPS PAGE 36, SANTA MATEO COUNTY RECORDS, AND AS FOUND MONUMENTED,
WAS TAKEN AS THE BASIS OF BEARING FOR THIS SURVEY.

REFERENCES:
R1 MAP OF SUBDIVISION NO. 3 5-M-36
R2 RECORD OF SURVEY NO. 3430 VOL. 48 PG. 46

BENCH MARK

DESCRIPTION: ASSUMED BENCHMARK, MAG NAIL ON STREET, NEAR THE
SOUTHERLY CORNER OF LOT AS SHOWN:
PROJECT BENCHMARK 13.39’ (NAVD88 DATUM)

ABREVIATIONS

‘ASSESSOR'S PARCEL NUMBER
BENCH MARK

CABLE TELEVISION OVERHEAD
CURVE DELTA

DRIVEWAY

DOWNSPOUT

FINISH FLOOR

FLOW LINE EL2VATION
GARAGE FINSH FLOOR
IRON PIPE

CURVE LENGTI

REFERENCE DOCUMENT
MONUMENT TO MONUMENT
OVERHEAD POWER LINE
OVERH=AD TELEPHONE LINE.
PARCEL

PARCEL MAP

PORTION

RADIUS

STORM DRAIN

SANITARY SEWER

TOP OF CURB EL=VATION
TEMPORARY

PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT
WATER LINE EASEMENT

NOTES;

DISTANCES AND DIMENSIONS ARE SHOWN IN FEET AND DECIMALS THEREOF.

THE DISTINCTIVE BORDER LINE DENOTES THE BOUNDARY.

TREES SPECIES NAMES ARE APPROXIMATE, AND LABELED BY THEIR COMMON NAME
TO THE BEST OF OUR KNOWLEDGE. IT IS NOT BASED ON AN ARBORIST REPORT.

- TOPOGRAPHY SHOWN ON THIS MAP REPRESENTS THE SURFACE FEATURES ONLY.
UNLESS SPECIFIED ON THIS MAP, LOCATIONS OF THE UNDERGROUND AND
OVERHEAD UTILITIES ARE NEITHER INTENDED NOR IMPLIED. FOR THE LOCATIONS OF
UNDERGROUND UTILITIES CALL "USA" (1-800-642-2440).

BUILDING FOOTPRINTS ARE SHOWN AT GROJND LEVEL.

FINSH FLOOR ELEVATION TAKEN AT DOOR THRESHOLD (EXTERIOR).

A TITLE REPORT FOR THE SUBJECT PROPERTY HAS NOT BEEN EXAMINED BY
OSUNA ENGINEERING, INC. OTHER EASEMENTS OF RECORD MAY EXIST THAT ARE
NOT SHOWN ON THIS MAP.

PORFIRIO OSCAR OSUNA
PLS 8921 EXP. 9-30-24

TEL. (408) 772-4381
Info@osunaengineering.com

Planning | Surveying | Civil Engineering

CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS é& LAND SURVEYORS

117 BERNAL RD. STE. 70-336

SAN JOSE, CA 95119

OSUNA

CO] checked: 00 | date: 4-28-2021

125 15TH AVENUE
APN: 034-294-120

Drown By:

PRELIMINARY BOUNDARY
& TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY

Project No.: 2158

1

OF 2 SHEETS



--- page 54 ---
EX} UTLITY POLE

LEGEND
EXISTING CONTOUR UNE
= =200——— NATURAL GRADE CONTOUR LINE an0t

PRIVATE WAY

EX. UTLITY POLE
40.00"

FOUND CITY MONUMENT BOX, OR AS NOTED
BOUNDARY OF PROPERTY SURVEYED
RECORD INFORMATION
‘CENTERLINE

CURB INLET

CURB LINE

DRIVEWAY APRON
ELECTROLIER

FENCE

FIRE HYDRANT

FLAT GRATE INLET
OVERHEAD POWER LINE
OVERHEAD TELEPHONE LINE
SANITARY SEWER LINE
SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE
SANITARY SEWER CLEANOUT
SIGN

STORM DRAIN LINE

STORM DRAIN MANHOLE.
UTILITY BOX

UTILITY POLE

WATER LINE

WATER METER

WATER VALVE

ELECTRIC METER

WATER HEATER

GAS

30.

FF 16.0

dL

]
|
EX. BUILDING

16" =

10” TREE TRUNK:
EX. ELECTRIC METER

EX. GAS METER

APN NO.: 034-294-120

EX. CRAWLSPACE
ACCES \/, LOT GROSS AREA: 5,004 SF

LOT 7

RI

X. CNC WALKWAY

EX. HOUSE
FF 16.17

EX. CHIMNEY: |
P

43

EX. PARKING SIGN

i

15TH AVE.

BENCHMARK:
ELEV. 13.39"
MAG NAIL

EX. LIGHT POST

20
GRAPHIC_SCALE
= 10°

BASIS OF BEARINGS

THE BEARING NORTH 64°46'19" EAST OF THE CENTER LINE OF 15TH AVE AS
SHOWN ON THAT MAP OF SUBDIVISION NO 3 FILED FOR RECORD IN BOOK 5 OF
MAPS PAGE 36, SANTA MATEO COUNTY RECORDS, AND AS FOUND MONUMENTED,
WAS TAKEN AS THE BASIS OF BEARING FOR THIS SURVEY.

REFERENCES:
R1_— MAP OF SUBDIVISION NO. 3 5-M-36
R2 RECORD OF SURVEY NO. 3430 VOL. 48 PG. 46

BENCH MARK

DESCRIPTION: ASSUMED BENCHMARK, MAG NAIL ON STREET, NEAR THE
SOUTHERLY CORNER OF LOT AS SHOWN:
PROJECT BENCHMARK 13.39’ (NAVD88 DATUM)

ABREVIATIONS

ASSESSOR'S PARCEL NUMBER
BENCH MARK

CABLE TELEVISION OVERHEAD
CURVE DELTA

DRIVEWAY

DOWNSPOUT

FINISH FLOOR

FLOW LINE ELEVATION
GARAGE FINISH FLOOR

RON PIPE

CURVE LENGTH

REFERENCE DOCUMENT
MONUMENT TO MONUMENT
OVERHEAD POWER LINE
OVERHEAD TELEPHONE LINE
PARCEL

PARCEL MAP

PORTION

RADIUS

STORM DRAIN

SANITARY SEWER

TOP OF CURB ELEVATION
TEMPORARY

PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT
WATER LINE EASEMENT

NOTES:

DISTANCES AND DIMENSIONS ARE SHOWN IN FEET AND DECIMALS THEREOF.
THE DISTINCTIVE BORDER LINE DENOTES THE BOUNDARY,

. TREES SPECIES NAMES ARE APPROXIMATE, AND LABELED BY THEIR COMMON NAME
TO THE BEST OF OUR KNOWLEDGE. IT IS NOT BASED ON AN ARBORIST REPORT.
TOPOGRAPHY SHOWN ON THIS MAP REPRESENTS THE SURFACE FEATURES ONLY.
UNLESS SPECIFIED ON THIS MAP, LOCATIONS OF THE UNDERGROUND AND.
OVERHEAD UTILITIES ARE NEITHER INTENDED NOR IMPLIED. FOR THE LOCATIONS OF
UNDERGROUND UTILITIES CALL "USA” (1-800-642-2440).

. BUILDING FOOTPRINTS ARE SHOWN AT GROUND LEVEL.

FINISH FLOOR ELEVATION TAKEN AT DOOR THRESHOLD (EXTERIOR)

A TITLE REPORT FOR THE SUBJECT PROPERTY HAS NOT BEEN EXAMINED BY
OSUNA ENGINEERING, INC. OTHER EASEMENTS OF RECORD MAY EXIST THAT ARE
NOT SHOWN ON THIS MAP.

PORFIRIO OSCAR OSUNA
PLS 8921 EXP. 9-30-24

TEL. (408) 772-4381
Info@osunaengineering.com

Planning | Surveying | Civil Engineering

CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS é& LAND SURVEYORS

117 BERNAL RD. STE. 70-336

SAN JOSE, CA 95119

OSUNA

CO] checked: 00 | date: 4-28-2021

125 15TH AVENUE
APN: 034-294-120

Drown By:

PRELIMINARY BOUNDARY
& TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY

2 2158

2

OF 2 SHEETS



--- page 55 ---
SHALL’ DEFEND, INDEMNIFY AND HOLD THE OWNER AND THE ENGINEER HARMLESS FROM ANY AND ALL LIABILITY, REAL OR ALLEGED, IN CONNECTION ‘WITH THE PERFORMANCE OF WORK

CONTRACTOR AGREES THAT HE SHALL ASSYME SOLE AND COMPLETE RESPONSIBILITY FOR JOB SITE CONDITIONS DURING THE COURSE OF CONSTRUCTION OF THIS PROJECT, INCLUDING
ON THIS PROJECT, EXCEPTING FOR LIABILITY ARISING FROM THE SOLE NEGLIGENCE OF THE OWNER OR THE ENGINEER.

SAFETY OF ALL PERSONS AND PROPERTY: THAT THIS REQUIREMENT SHALL APPLY CONTINUOUSLY AND NOT BE LIMITED TO NORMAL WORKING HOURS: AND THAT THE CONTRACTOR

GRADING & DRAINAGE NOTES:

NOTE: THIS DRAWING IS APPROVED SUBJECT TO:
1, ALL GRADING IS SUBJECT TO OBSERVATION BY THE CITY. PERMITTEE OR
REPRESENTATIVE SHALL NOTIFY THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO DEPARTMENT OF

PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT INSPECTOR AT LEAST 48 HOURS BEFORE START OF
ANY GRADING.

‘APPROVAL OF THIS PLAN APPLIES ONLY TO (A) THE EXCAVATION, PLACEMENT,
AND COMPACTION OF NATURAL EARTH MATERIALS, (B) THE INSTALLATION OF

ON-SITE (I.E. PRIVATE PROPERTY) STORM WATER CONVEYANCE AND TREATMENT

FACILITIES THAT ARE OUTSIDE OF THE 5-FOOT BUILDING ENVELOPE, AND (C)
THE INSTALLATION OF RETAINING STRUCTURES. THIS APPROVAL DOES NOT
CONFER ANY RIGHTS OF ENTRY TO EITHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OR THE PRIVATE f

PROPERTY OF OTHERS. APPROVAL OF THIS PLAN ALSO DOES NOT CONSTITUTE
‘APPROVAL OF ANY IMPROVEMENTS WITH THE EXCEPTION OF THOSE LISTED

‘ABOVE. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS, WITH THE EXCEPTION OF THOSE LISTED
‘ABOVE, ARE SUBJECT TO REVIEW AND APPROVAL BY THE RESPONSIBLE 7
AUTHORITIES AND ALL OTHER REQUIRED PERMITS SHALL BE OBTAINED. . - -

UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED ON THE PLAN, ANY DEPICTION OF A RETAINING
STRUCTURE ON THIS PLAN SHALL NOT CONSTITUTE APPROVAL FOR’
CONSTRUCTION OF THE RETAINING STRUCTURE UNLESS A SEPARATE STRUCTURAL
REVIEW, BY THE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS IS COMPLETED AND APPROVED.

IT SHALL BE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE PERMITTEE OR AGENT TO IDENTIFY,
LOCATE AND PROTECT ALL UNDERGROUND FACILITIES.

THE PERMITTEE OR AGENT SHALL MAINTAIN THE STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND ALL
OTHER PUBLIC RIGHTS—OF—WAY IN A CLEAN, SAFE AND USABLE CONDITION.
ALL SPILLS OF SOIL, ROCK OR CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS SHALL BE REMOVED
FROM THE PUBLICLY OWNED PROPERTY DURING CONSTRUCTION AND UPON
COMPLETION OF THE PROJECT. ALL ADJACENT PROPERTY, PRIVATE OR PUBLIC
SHALL BE MAINTAINED IN A CLEAN, SAFE AND USABLE CONDITION,

‘ALL GRADING SHALL BE PERFORMED IN SUCH A MANNER AS TO COMPLY WITH 5 : No. 70829
THE STANDARDS ESTABLISHED BY THE AIR QUALITY MANAGEMENT DISTRICT FOR - fp, 6-30-23 JH
AIRBORNE PARTICULATES.

IN THE EVENT THAT HUMAN REMAINS AND/OR CULTURAL MATERIALS ARE FOUND,
‘ALL PROJECT-RELATED CONSTRUCTION SHOULD CEASE WITHIN A 100-FOOT
RADIUS. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL, PURSUANT TO SECTION 7050.5 OF THE
HEALTH AND SAFETY CODE, AND SECTION 5097.94 OF THE PUBLIC RESOURCES
CODE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA, NOTIFY THE MARIN COUNTY CORONER
IMMEDIATELY, ‘PORFIR(O OSCAR OSUNA

7 RCE 70829 EXP. 6-30-23

THIS PLAN DOES NOT APPROVE THE REMOVAL OF TREES. APPROPRIATE TREE
REMOVAL PERMITS AND METHODS OF TREE PRESERVATION SHOULD BE OBTAINED
FROM THE CITY'S PLANNING DEPARTMENT AND THE CITY ARBORIST.

FOR NON-RESIDENTIAL PROJECTS, ANY NON-HAZARDOUS EXPORT RESULTING
FROM PROJECT RELATED EXCAVATION OR LAND CLEARING SHALL BE 100%
REUSED AND RECYCLED PER CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE 125 15th Ave, San

SECTION 5.408. Mateo, CA 94402,

‘ALL GRADING WORK SHALL CONFORM TO THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE
PROJECT GEOTECHNICAL REPORT AND/OR THE PROJECT SOIL ENGINEER. ALL
GRADING WORK SHALL BE OBSERVED AND APPROVED BY THE SOIL ENGINEER.
REPORT DATE:

REPORT NUMBER:

SOILS ENGINEERING COMPANY;

CONTACT INFORMATION:

2 x
THE SOIL ENGINEER SHALL BE NOTIFIED AT LEAST 48 HOURS BEFORE PAs
BEGINNING ANY GRADING. UNOBSERVED AND/OR UNAPPROVED GRADING WORK RY
SHALL BE REMOVED AND REPLACED UNDER OBSERVATION. r S

PERIMETER BUILDING GRADES SHALL SLOPE AWAY FROM BUILDINGS AT LEAST 5%
MINIMUM

ALL DOWNSPOUTS SHALL HAVE SPLASH BOXES AS SHOWN ON THE GRADING
AND DRAINAGE PLAN. DIRECTION OF THE FLOW SHALL BE AWAY FROM THE » Hayward Park
BUILDING. 7

BENCH MARK

DESCRIPTION: ASSUMED BENCHMARK, MAG NAIL ON STREET, NEAR THE
SOUTHERLY CORNER OF LOT AS SHOWN:
PROJECT BENCHMARK 13.39" (NAVD88 DATUM)

TEL. (408) 772-4381

Info@osunaengineering.com

TrintalPark

ian %

EARTH WORK QUANTITIES 24 Hour Fitness 9
CUT: 45CY 7

FILL: OCY
EXPORT: 45 CY.
IMPORT: O.CY

NOTE: EARTHWORK QUANTITIES SHOWN ARE
APPROXIMATE. IT SHALL BE THE CONTRACTOR'S

RESPONSIBILITY TO INDEPENDENTLY ESTIMATE

QUANTITIES FOR HISIHER OWN USE. NO SCALE

THE PAD OF THE HOUSE IS NOT INCLUDED
MATERIAL HAULING NOTES:

Planning| Surveying | Civil Engineering

CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS & LAND SURVEYORS

6920 SANTA TERESA BLVD STE. 206

SAN JOSE, CA 95119

ENGINEERING INC.

Miliva Marlat A

THE PROJECT SPONSOR SHALL REQUIRE CONTRACTORS TO PROHIBIT TRUCKS FROM
USING “COMPRESSION RELEASE ENGINE BRAKES” ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS.

ABBREVATIONS.

AC = ASPHALT CONCRETE LP = LOW POINT
AD = AREA DRAIN PAD = PAD ELEVATION
AG = ADJACENT GRADE AT FOUNDATION PCC = PORTLAND CEMENT CONCRETE
BC = BEGIN CURVE PL = PROPERTY UNE

BOTTOM OF STAIR PV = PAVEMENT GRADE

BUBBLE UP PVC = POLYVINYL CHLORIDE PIPE

BEGIN VERTICAL CURVE PV = POINT OF VERTICAL INTERSECTION

BOTTOM OF RETAINED GRADE AT MALL "P= REINFORCED CONCRETE PIPE

CATCH BASIN ROW = RIGHT OF WAY

CENTERLINE S=.004> SLOPE

CLEANOUT SD = STORM DRAIN

DOWNSPOUT WITH SPLASH BOX SDMH = STORM DRAIN MANHOLE

END CURVE SG = SUBGRADE ELEVATION
ELEV. = ELEVATION ‘SS = SANITARY SEWER

END VERTICAL CURVE ‘SSMH = SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE

EXISTING STA = STATION
F/0 = FACE OF CURB To = TOP OF CURB
FF = FINISHED FLOOR ELEVATION TF = TOP OF FENCE
FH = FIRE HYDRANT TRW = TOP OF RETAINED GRADE AT WALL
FL = FLOW UNE

GRADE. BREAK TOP OF WALL

GARAGE FINISH FLOOR VITRIFIED CLAY PIPE

HIGH POINT WATER METER

HANDICAP UNIT WW = WATER VALVE

INVERT

BRsees

GRADING & DRAINAGE PLAN
COVER SHEET
125 15TH AVE

Project No.: 2158

C0

OF 6 SHEETS



--- page 56 ---
SHALL’ DEFEND, INDEMNIFY AND HOLD THE OWNER AND THE ENGINEER HARMLESS FROM ANY AND ALL LIABILITY, REAL OR ALLEGED, IN CONNECTION ‘WITH THE PERFORMANCE OF WORK

CONTRACTOR AGREES THAT HE SHALL ASSUME SOLE AND COMPLETE RESPONSIBILITY FOR JOB SITE CONDITIONS DURING THE COURSE OF CONSTRUCTION OF THIS PROJECT, INCLUDING
ON THIS PROJECT, EXCEPTING FOR LIABILITY ARISING FROM THE SOLE NEGLIGENCE OF THE OWNER OR THE ENGINEER.

SAFETY OF ALL PERSONS AND PROPERTY: THAT THIS REQUIREMENT SHALL APPLY CONTINUOUSLY AND NOT BE LIMITED TO NORMAL WORKING HOURS: AND THAT THE CONTRACTOR

30
4

20
GRAPHIC_SCALE

PRIVATE WAY ——_184'-80 4" Pie 19 52-50 4" pve 61%

[PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS — PROJECT] ‘AD RIM 14.72

WiLL BE REQUIRED TO GRIND AND] wv 12.72
OVERLAY THE ENTIRE, ALLEYWAY

|ALONG TS FRONTAGE ON THE
cK

®

12.38"
[12-4 1/2]

16.4'-SD 4” PVC @1%

FF 16.39)

IW 12.56
‘SYMBOL INDICATES SLOPE 5%, ANAY FROM

BUILDING FOR GROUND/LANDSCAPR AREAS, OR
‘2% AWAY FROM BUILDING FOR }HARDSCAPE ¥

AREAS, FOR TEN FEET UNLESS NOT\PRACTICAL 1 13.5'-SD 4° PVC @1%
LONGITUDINAL SWALES MAY BE USED (TYP). 5

PORFIRIO OSCAR OSUNA
RCE 70829 EXP. 6-30-23

AD RM 15.13:
INV 13.13

21" COAST LE OAK TREE
To BE REMOVED.

16.8'-SD 4” PVC @1%:
19.4'-SD 4° PVC @1%

RW 14.40

10° TREE TRUNK
TO BE REMOVED
pau 1428
TRW 15.09 74.22 Te. al | 4
erw_1430 [> lg | | 4 2 EARTHEN SWALE (TYP.)
) SEE DETAIL G SHEET C2
ae | L 22.2'-SD 4” PVC @1%

18.0'-SD 4” PVC @1%-
(N) PROPOSED RETAINING WALL~&
AD Riv 14.18
INV 11.88
TRW_15.12
BRW 14.19

ea)
WK“

EARTHEN SWALE (TYP.)

SEE DETAL G SHEET C2 B
Taw 15.05, C2
BRW 14.31 |

TEL. (408) 772-4381

Info@osundengineering.com

f x SD 4" PVC @1%
28.0'-S0 4" PYO 01% ae

214.66)

AD RM 14.16:
INV 11.60

BRW 14.17

Planning| Surveying | Civil Engineering

CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS & LAND SURVEYORS

6920 SANTA TERESA BLVD STE. 206

SAN JOSE, CA 95119

OSUNA

<>)
ae

NS

22.6'-SD 4" PVC @1%:
13.2'-SD 4" PVC 1%

. x 6"-8" LEMON TREE
(s) 4 SiN. Ut ‘ 0 BE REMOVED ww 11
(14.

|
C2

hy 11.37.

ABBREVATIONS (N) CLEANOUT PER COUNTY:

STDS. WITHIN 5° OF PL.
AC = ASPHALT CONCRETE Le ‘SEE DETAIL C-3 SHEET CS

mmumes
THE PROVEC

1S REQUIRED THAT
T

Date: 1/01/2022

AD = AREA DRAIN
AG = ADJACENT GRADE AT FOUNDATION
BC = BEGIN CURVE.
BS = BOTTOM OF STAR

BUBBLE UP

BEGIN VERTICAL CURVE

IOTTOM OF RETAINED GRADE AT WALL
CB = CATCH BASIN
CL = CENTERLINE
CO = CLEANOUT
DS = DOWNSPOUT WITH SPLASH BOX
EC = END CURVE
ELEV. = ELEVATION
EVC = END VERTICAL CURVE
EX, = EXISTING
F/C = FACE OF CURB
FF = FINISHED FLOOR ELEVATION
FH = FIRE HYDRANT

= FLOW LINE

GB_= GRADE BREAK

GARAGE FINISH FLOOR

HIGH POINT

HANDICAP UNIT

PAD ELEVATION
PORTLAND CEMENT CONCRETE
PROPERTY LINE
PAVEMENT GRADE
POLYVINYL CHLORIDE PIPE
POINT OF VERTICAL INTERSECTION
REINFORCED CONCRETE PIPE
= RIGHT OF WAY
> SLOPE
STORM DRAIN
STORM DRAIN MANHOLE
SUBGRADE ELEVATION
SANITARY SEWER
= SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE

OP OF FENCE

TOP OF RETAINED GRADE AT WALL
(OP OF STAR

TOP OF WALL

VITRIFIED CLAY PIPE

WATER METER

WATER VALVE

‘ADAUST WATT

40.00"
; PROPOSED STORM WATER
%) —INFILTRATION/OETENTION

EE PROTECTION

ENCE (TYP.). SEE

UNDERGROUND SINGLE 36”
SLOTTED PVC OR HOPE PIPE,

STREPERT
FOR FENCE DETAIL

3" eu tee HOLES FACING DOWN, LAID FLAT.
=FOR STORING EXCESS RUNOFF

RECOMMENDATIONS
Te 13.29—

Te 13.22— —BY POST-DEVELOPMENT. SEE

mC PROJEC TC 13.43 FL 12.95,
WILL BE REQUIRED TO REPAIR ANY FL 13.10
lyre

pa eb cure, GUTTER, SIDEWALK,| ACCESS MAINTENANCE.
EVENT OR ANY OTHER EXISTING 24” WELDED HOPE With

PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AS PART OF]

THE PROVEGY DEVELOPMENT SOUID COVER BOLTED DOWN 15TH AVE

(CHILD PROOF)

FL 12.89 DETAIL F ON SHEET C2.1

6

15TH AVE

USE_EX 4” SANITARY LATERAL,

Checked: 0.0.

GRADING & DRAINAGE PLAN
125 15TH AVE

HC
= Ha 1 a SHEET
INV = INVERT LOCATION, CONDITION, SIZE, &

OF 6 SHEETS



--- page 57 ---
USE 6” ATRIUM GRATE NDS #90S

(OR EQUAL) IN LANDSCAPE AREAS

UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE.

6" P.V.C. DRAIN PIPE
LENGTH AS REQUIRED

NOTE: ALL GRADING IS BASED OFF OF
THIS ARCHITECTURAL SECTION. THE
ADJACENT GRADE AND FF DIMENSIONS
SHOWN HERE MUST BE KEPT. NOTIFY
THE ENGINEER BEFORE MAKING ANY
CHANGES.

SLOPE 5% AWAY FROM BUILDING
FOR GROUND/LANDSCAPE
AREAS, OR 2% AWAY FROM
BUILDING FOR HARDSCAPE
AREAS, FOR TEN FEET UNLESS
NOT PRACTICAL LONGITUDINAL
SWALES MAY BE USED.

NOTE: ALL GRADING IS BASED OFF OF
THIS ARCHITECTURAL SECTION. THE
ADJACENT GRADE AND GFF DIMENSIONS
SHOWN HERE MUST BE KEPT. NOTIFY
THE ENGINEER BEFORE MAKING ANY
CHANGES.

8” MIN FROM GROUND TO
BOTTOM OF WOOD SILL.

SLOPE 5% AWAY FROM BUILDING
FOR GROUND/LANDSCAPE AREAS,

SHALL’ DEFEND, INDEMNIFY AND HOLD THE OWNER AND THE ENGINEER HARMLESS FROM ANY AND ALL LIABILITY, REAL OR ALLEGED, IN CONNECTION ‘WITH THE PERFORMANCE OF WORK

CONTRACTOR AGREES THAT HE SHALL ASSUME SOLE AND COMPLETE RESPONSIBILITY FOR JOB SITE CONDITIONS DURING THE COURSE OF CONSTRUCTION OF THIS PROJECT, INCLUDING
ON THIS PROJECT, EXCEPTING FOR LIABILITY ARISING FROM THE SOLE NEGLIGENCE OF THE OWNER OR THE ENGINEER.

SAFETY OF ALL PERSONS AND PROPERTY: THAT THIS REQUIREMENT SHALL APPLY CONTINUOUSLY AND NOT BE LIMITED TO NORMAL WORKING HOURS; AND THAT THE CONTRACTOR:

USE 9” GRAY SQUARE GRATE NDS #960 FINISH FLOOR (FF)
a (OR EQUAL) IN CONCRETE SWALE AREAS
UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE.
OR 2% AWAY FROM BUILDING

jo bese FOR HARDSCAPE AREAS, FOR
— = aa TEN FEET UNLESS NOT

PRACTICAL LONGITUDINAL SWALES
FINISH FLOOR (FF) WAY BE USED.

wt 6” P.V.C. DRAIN PIPE
35/168" LENGTH AS REQUIRED
VARIES
WYE FITTING: SEE PUAN gee yy
6” OR 8” SOLID PVC. SEE 6” P.V.C. DRAIN PIPE
PLAN. CONNECT TO STORM |__LENGTH AS REQUIRED
DRAIN ADJACENT GRADE
FLOW CAP

18” MIN

CRAWL SPACE

S%>

ee

NTS.

TYPICAL FOUNDATION/GFE/GROUND SECTION

LANDSCAPE DRAIN DETAIL
NTS.

NOT USED AREA DRAIN DETAIL TYPICAL FOUNDATION/FE/GROUND. SECTION

PORFIRIO OSCAR OSUNA
RCE 70829 EXP. 6-30-23

SLOPE 5% AWAY FROM BUILDING

FOR GROUND/LANDSCAPE

AREAS, OR 2% AWAY FROM

BUILDING FOR HARDSCAPE

AREAS, FOR TEN FEET UNLESS USE GRASSY SWALE OR OTHER
NOT PRACTICAL LONGITUDINAL MATERIALS TO MINIMIZE
SWALES MAY BE USED. SEDIMENTS

AREA DRAIN INLET (SHOWN OFFSET FOR CLARITY)
USE 9” GREEN SQUARE GRATE NDS #960 (OR
EQUAL) LAWN OR WALKABLE AREAS

OR USE 6” ATRIUM GRATE NDS #90S (OR EQUAL)
IN LANDSCAPE AREAS UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE.

TEL. (408) 772-4381

Info@osunaengineering.com

NOT USED EARTHEN SWALE DETAIL

24" ACCESS WELDED HDPE
RISER WITH SOLID COVER
BOLTED DOWN (CHILD PROOF)

Planning| Surveying | Civil Engineering

CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS & LAND SURVEYORS

6920 SANTA TERESA BLVD STE. 206

OSUNA

ROOF DOWNSPOUTS.
s— SEE ARCHITECTURAL

ve PERMEABLE FILTER FABRIC PLANS FOR LOCATIONS

6” PVC PIPE
| ! (INFLOW)
’ 24” LONG PRECAST SPLASH BLOCK.

6” PVC DRAIN PIPE —
LENGTH AS REQUIRED NITTERHOUSE (OR EQUAL)

36” DIAMETER — 10 LINEAL
FEET LONG STORAGE HDPE

%0

15 MIL. VISQUEEN @
BOTH SIDES OF TRENCH —~ |

PIPE.

15 MIL. VISQUEEN @
BOTH SIDES OF TRENCH

SLOPE AWAY FROM BUILDING 2%
MIN. ON IMPERVIOUS SURFACES.
SLOPE AWAY 5% MIN. ON

HOUSE WALL

PERVIOUS SURFACES.
DRAIN. ROCK

DRILL 1” HOLES @ EVERY 24” 0.C.

‘Designed: JO/TMN] Checked: 0.0 | date:1 1/01/2022 | SAN JOSE, CA 95119

125 15TH AVE

EMBED SPLASH BOX IN

L suscrADE PERMEABLE FILTER FABRIC TO BE
4” CONCRETE OR MORTAR

PLACED AT BOTTOM OF AGGREGATE

8p,

GRADING & DRAINAGE PLAN
CONSTRUCTION DETAILS

Project No.: 2158

SPLASH BLOCK/DOWNSPOUT DETAIL
NTS.

C2
SPLASH BLOCK/DOWNSPOUT DETAIL OF 6 SHEETS

STORM WATER INFILTRATION/DETENTION TRENCH DETAIL

H | NOT USED



--- page 58 ---
MATERIAL STORAGE BIN:
EQUIPMENT LAYDOWN AREA

INSTALL FIBER ROLLS. SEE

DETAIL ON THIS SHEET

NOTES:

1. PROTECT ALL INLETS IN THE PUBLIC
STREETS SURROUNDING THE SITE.

2. ALL ON-SITE LANDSCAPE AREA
DRAINS TO BE CAPPED OR PROTECTED
UNTIL LANDSCAPING IS FINISHED.

INSTALL FIBER ROLLS. SEE
DETAIL ON THIS SHEET

‘APPROXIMATE STOCKPILE
AREA. CONTRACTOR TO
COVER WITH EROSION
CONTROL BLANKETS OR
PLASTIC TARP.

"NO DUMPING! FLOWS TO
BAY"

[ALL FIBER ROLLS SHALL]
INOT ENCROACH OVER
PROPERTY LINE

INSTALL FIBER ROLLS. SEE
DETAIL ON THIS SHEET

CONSTRUCHON -ENTRANCE, SEE DETAILS ON
THISSHEET—AS AN ALTERNATE CAN LEAVE
EXISTING PAVEMENT INSTEAD. NO DIRT
TRACKING TO THE STREETS ALLOWED

CONSTRUCTION PARKING

8” THICK AGGREGATE

50’ MIN
SLOPE AWAY

CO oO

PUBLIC
J RIGHT-OF-WAY

LEGEND

PROPOSED DESCRIPTION

SITE BOUNDARY

STABILIZED CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCE
2”-3" ROCK (MIN)

FIBER ROLL

INLET PROTECTION

MAINTENANCE NOTES

ENANCE IS TO BE PERFORMED AS FOLLOWS:

REPAR DAMAGES CAUSED BY SOIL EROSION OR CONSTRUCTON AT THE END
OF EACH WORKING DAY,

‘SWALES SHALL BE INSPECTED PERIODICALLY AND MAINTAINED AS NEEDED.

SEDIMENT TRA?S, BERMS, AND SWALES ARE TO BE INSPECTED AFTER EACH
STORM AND REPAIRS MADE AS NEEDED.

SEDIMENT SHALL BE REMOVED AND SEDIMENT TRAP RESTORED 10 ITS
ORIGINAL DIMENSIONS WHEN SEDIMENT HAS ACCUMULATED TO A DEPTH OF 1
FooT.

SEDIMENT REMOVED FROM TRAP SHALL BE DEPOSITED IN A SUITASLE AREA
AND IN SUCH A MANNER THAT IT WILL NOT ERODE.

RILLS AND GULLIES MUST BE REPARED.

INSTALL 5
STAKES TYP.

10” STRAW WATTLE

PLAN VIEW
10” STRAW WATTLE

EXCAVATE 4" DEEP
CUP FOR CIRCULAR
WATTLE TO SIT IN DRIVE STAKE 18”

BELOW GROUND

NOTE: LANDSCAPE INLETS THAT ARE
NOT PROTECTED MUST BE CAPPED
TO PREVENT ANY UNTREATED FLOW
ENTERING THE INLET

ALTERNATE FIBER ROLL INLET PROTECTION
MAY BE USED IN LANDSCAPE AREA DRAINS

EROSION & SEDIMENT CONTROL NOTES
1, NOT USED

2, THE DEVELOPER IS RESPONSIBLE FOR ENSURING THAT AL_ CONTRACTORS AND SUBCONTRACTORS ARE AWARE OF ALL STORM WATER
QUALITY MEASURES AND IMPLEMENT SUCH MEASURES. FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THE APPROVED CONSTRUCTION BEST MANAGEMENT
PRACTICES WILL RESULT IN THE ISSUANCE OF CORRECTION NOTICES, CITATIONS, AND/OR STOP ORDERS.

ANY VEHICLE OR EQUIPMENT WASHING/STEAM CLEANING MUST BE DONE AT AN APPROPRIATELY EQUIPPED FACILITY WHICH DRAINS TO
THE SANITARY SEWER. OUTDOOR WASHING MUST BE MANAGED IN SUCH A WAY THAT THERE IS NO DISCHARGE OF SOAPS, SOLVENTS,
CLEANING AGENTS OR OTHER POLLUTANTS TO THE STORM DRAINS. WASH WATER SHALL DISCHARGE TO THE SANITARY SEWER, SUBJECT
TO REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF UNION SANITARY DISTRICT.

THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR LITTER CONTROL AND SWEEPING OF ALL PAVED SURFACES DURING CONSTRUCTION.

THE FACILITIES SHOWN ON THIS PLAN ARE DESIGNED TO CONTROL EROSION AND SEDIMENT DURING THE RAINY SEASON, OCTOBER 1 TO
APRIL 15. EROSION CONTROL MEASURES ARE TO BE FUNCTIONAL PRIOR TO OCTOBER 1ST OF ANY YEAR GRADING OPERATIONS HAVE
LEFT AREAS UNPROTECTED FROM EROSION.

ALL ON-SITE STORM DRAINS SHALL BE CLEANED IMMEDIATELY BEFORE THE START OF THE RAINY SEASON BEGINNING ON OCTOBER 1ST
EACH YEAR, SUBJECT TO THE REVIEW OF THE BUILDING/ENGINEERING INSPECTOR.

IF RAINY WEATHER BECOMES IMMINENT, GRADING OPERATIONS SHALL BE STOPPED AND EROSION CONTROL MEASURES SHALL BE
IMPLEMENTED TO PROTECT DISTURBED AREAS.

DURING THE RAINY SEASON, AL_ PAVED AREAS SHALL BE KEPT CLEAR OF EARTH MATERIAL AND DEBRIS. THE SITE SHALL BE
MAINTANED SO AS TO MINIMIZE SEDIMENT LADEN RUNOFF TO ANY STORM DRAIN SYSTEM

CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCES SHALL CONSIST OF A MINIMUM 8" THCK LAYER OF 3"~4” FRACTURED STONE AGGREGATE UNLAID WITH
GEOTEXTILE LINER FOR A MINIMUM DISTANCE OF 50 FEET, AND IS TO BE PROVIDED AT EACH VEHICLE ACCESS POINT TO EXISTING
PAVED STREETS. THE DEPTH AND LENGTH OF AGGREGATE MAY NEED TO BE ADJUSTED IN THE FIELD TO ENSURE NO TRACKING OF
SEDIMENT ONTO EXISTING PAVED STREETS. CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCES SHALL SLOPE AWAY FROM EXISTING PAVED STREETS.

INLETS NOT USED IN CONJUNCTION WITH EROSION CONTROL MEASURES ARE TO BE BLOCKED UNLESS THE AREA DRAINED IS
UNDISTURBED OR STABILIZED.

BORROW AREAS AND TEMPORARY STOCKPILES SHALL BE PROTECTED WITH APPROPRIATE EROSION CONTORL MEASURES TO THE
SATISFACTION OF THE CITY ENGINEER.

NO STRAW BALES OR SILT FENCES SHALL BE USED AS EROSION CONTROL MEASURES. SILT FENCES MAY ONLY BE USED AS A
PHYSICAL BARRIER TO PREVENT VEHICULAR AND PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC FROM USING NON-APPROVED ACCESS POINTS (E.G. - ALONG
RIGHT-OF-WAY).

ALL DISTURBED AREAS INCLUDING FLAT PADS ARE TO BE TREATED WITH STRAW AND TACKIFIER AT A RATE OF 2 TONS PER ACRE
APPROXIMATELY 3 INCHES THICK.

SUPPLEMENTAL EROSION & SEDIMENT CONTROL NOTES

CONTRACTOR AGREES THAT HE SHALL ASSUME SOLE AND COMPLETE RESPONSIBILITY FOR JOB SITE CONDITIONS DURING THE COURSE OF CONSTRUCTION OF THIS PROJECT, INCLUDING

ON THIS PROJECT, EXCEPTING FOR LIABILITY ARISING FROM THE SOLE NEGLIGENCE OF THE OWNER OR THE ENGINEER.

\ Se"
500X MIRAFI (OR EQUAL) PROVIDE APPROPRIATE TRANSITION.

1, SEE STANDARD EROSION & SEDIMENT CONTROL NOTES ABOVE.

THE FACILTIES SHOWN ON THIS PLAN ARE DESIGNED TO CONTROL EROSION AND SEDIMENT DURING THE RAINY SEASON, OCTOBER 1 TO
APRIL 30. FACILITIES ARE TO BE OPERABLE PRIOR TO OCTOBER 1 OF ANY YEAR, GRADING OPERATIONS DURING THE RAINY SEASON
WHCH LEAVE DENUDED SLOPES SHALL BE PROTECT:D WITH EROSION CONTROL MEASURES IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING GRADING ON THE
‘SLOPES.

CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCES SHALL BE INSTALLED PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF GRADING. ALL CONSTRUCTION TRAFFIC ENTERING ONTO
THE PAVED ROADS MUST CROSS THE STABILIZED CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCE WAYS.

CONTRACTOR SHALL MAINTAIN STABILIZED ENTRANCE AT EACH VEHICLE ACCESS POINT TO EXISTING PAVED STREETS. ANY MUD OR DEBRIS
TRACKED ONTO PUBLIC STREETS SHALL BE REMOVED DAILY AND AS REQUIRED BY THE CITY.

INLET PROTECTION SHALL BE INSTALLED AT OPEN INLETS TO PREVENT SEDIMENT FROM ENTERING THE STORM DRAIN SYSTEM. INLETS.
NOT USED IN CONJUNCTION WITH EROSION CONTROL ARE TO BE BLOCKED TO PREVENT ENTRY OF SEDIMENT.

THIS EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN MAY NOT COVER ALL THE SITUATONS THAT MAY ARISE DURING CONSTRUCTION DUE TO
UNANTICIPATED FIELD CONDITIONS. VARIATIONS AND ADDITIONS MAY BE MADE TO THIS PLAN IN THE FIELD. NOTIFY THE CITY
REPRESENTATIVE OF ANY FIELD CHANGES.

HINGE POINT:

3:1 SLOPE oe

PORFIRIO OSCAR OSUNA
RCE 70829 EXP. 6-30-23

TEL. (408) 772-4381

Info@osundengineering.com

Planning| Surveying | Civil Engineering

CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS & LAND SURVEYORS

6920 SANTA TERESA BLVD STE. 206

SAN JOSE, CA 95119

ENGINEERING INC.

OSUNA

‘ON EXISTING GROUND BETWEEN STABILIZED CONSTRUCTION
ENTRANCE AND PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY

4,

. o-
50" MIN
- REBNR 70 EXTEND BEYOND —
[mere ant

PUBLIC ,
etcrT-0F wa oD II
Ld DN I PIO
le
SUT SACK /

AC PAVEMENT

PLACE STRAW WATTLES
IF VERTICAL RISE

FRONT YARD SLOPE DETAIL
AFTER STREET ARE PAVED

MAINTENANCE:

THE ENTRANCE SHALL BE MAINTAINED IN A CONDITION THAT WILL PREVENT TRACKING OR FLOWING
SEDIMENT ONTO PUBLIC RIGHTS—OF-WAY. THIS MAY REQUIRE PERIODIC TOP DRESSING WITH ADDITIONAL
STONE AS CONDITIONS DEMAND, AND REPAIR AND/OR CLEAN OUT ANY MEASURES USED TO TRAP SEDIMENT.

‘Designed: JO/TMN] Checked: 0.0 | date:1 1/01/2022

125 15TH AVE

ALL SEDIMENT SPILLED, DROPPED, WASHED, OR TRACKED ONTO PUBLIC RIGHTS—OF—WAY SHALL BE REMOVED
IMMEDIATELY.

GRADING & DRAINAGE PLAN
EROSION CONTROL

WHEN NECESSARY, WHEELS SHALL BE CLEANED TO REMOVE SEDIMENT PRIOR TO ENTRANCE ONTO PUBLIC
RIGHTS-OF-WAY. " THIS SHALL BE DONE AT AN AREA STABILIZED WITH CRUSHED STONE, WHICH DRAINS =
INTO AN APPROVED SEDIMENT TRAP OR SEDIMENT BASIN. é

CALIFORNIA MODIFIED SILT SACK
REED é& GRAHAM, INC. (OR EQUAL) _FIBER ROLL
BEFORE & AFTER STREETS ARE PAVED INSTALLATION DETAIL C3

EXCAVATE 4” DEEP CUP
oRve stake ——~ FOR CIRCULAR ROLL TO

18” BELOW ROLL
#00. SIT IN

Project No.: 2158

STABILIZED

CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCE
NTS. NIS. NIS.

OF 6 SHEETS



--- page 59 ---
SHALL’ DEFEND, INDEMNIFY AND HOLD THE OWNER AND THE ENGINEER HARMLESS FROM ANY AND ALL LIABILITY, REAL OR ALLEGED, IN CONNECTION ‘WITH THE PERFORMANCE OF WORK

CONTRACTOR AGREES THAT HE SHALL ASSUME SOLE AND COMPLETE RESPONSIBILITY FOR JOB SITE CONDITIONS DURING THE COURSE OF CONSTRUCTION OF THIS PROJECT, INCLUDING
ON THIS PROJECT, EXCEPTING FOR LIABILITY ARISING FROM THE SOLE NEGLIGENCE OF THE OWNER OR THE ENGINEER.

SAFETY OF ALL PERSONS AND PROPERTY: THAT THIS REQUIREMENT SHALL APPLY CONTINUOUSLY AND NOT BE LIMITED TO NORMAL WORKING HOURS: AND THAT THE CONTRACTOR

7 4
mee”

SAN MATEO COUNTYWIDE

Water Pollution
Prevention Program

Clean Water. Healthy Community.

Materials & Waste Management

Non-Hazardous Materials

O Berm and cover stockpiles of sand, dirt or other construction material
with tarps when rain is forecast or if not actively being used within
14 days

O Use (but don’t overuse) reclaimed water for dust control,

Hazardous Materials

O) Label all hazardous materials and hazardous wastes (such as
pesticides, paints, thinners, solvents, fuel, oil, and antifreeze) in
accordance with city, county, state and federal regulations.

QO) Store hazardous materials and wastes in water tight containers, store
in appropriate secondary containment, and cover them at the end of
every work day or during wet weather or when rain is forecast.

O Follow manufacturer's application instructions for hazardous
materials and be careful not to use more than necessary. Do not
apply chemicals outdoors when rain is forecast within 24 hours.

1 Arange for appropriate disposal of all hazardous wastes.

‘Waste Management

O Cover waste disposal containers securely with tarps at the end of
every work day and during wet weather.

O Check waste disposal containers frequently for leaks and to make
sure they are not overfilled. Never hose down a dumpster on the
construction site.

O Clean or replace portable toilets, and inspect them frequently for
leaks and spills,

U Dispose of all wastes and debris properly, Recycle materials and
wastes that can be recycled (such as asphalt, concrete, aggregate base
materials, wood, gyp board, pipe, ete.)

O Dispose of liquid residues from paints, thinners, solvents, glues, and
cleaning fluids as hazardous waste.

Construction Entrances and Perimeter

Q Establish and maintain effective perimeter controls and stabilize all
construction entrances and exits to sufficiently control erosion and
sediment discharges from site and tracking off site.

O Sweep or vacuum any street tracking immediately and secure
sediment source to prevent further tracking. Never hose down streets
to clean up tracking.

they apply to your project, all year long.

Equipment Management &
Spill Control

y)
a

a

O Designate an area, fitted with appropriate BMPs, for
vehicle and equipment parking and storage.

Maintenance and Parking

O Perform major maintenance, repair jobs, and vehicle
and equipment washing off site.

QO) Ifrefueling or vehicle maintenance must be done
onsite, work in a bermed area away from storm drains
and over a drip pan or drop cloths big enough to collect
fluids. Recycle or dispose of fluids as hazardous waste.
If vehicle or equipment cleaning must be done onsite,
clean with water only in a bermed area that will not
allow rinse water to run into gutters, streets, storm
drains, or surface waters.

Do not clean vehicle or equipment onsite using soaps,
solvents, degreasers, or steam cleaning equipment.

Spill Prevention and Control

Q Keep spill cleanup materials (e.g., rags, absorbents and
cat litter) available at the construction site at all times,

O Inspect vehicles and equipment frequently for and
repair leaks promptly. Use drip pans to catch leaks
until repairs are made.
Clean up spills or leaks immediately and dispose of
cleanup materials properly
Do not hose down surfaces where fluids have spilled.
Use dry cleanup methods (absorbent materials, cat
litter, and/or rags).
Sweep up spilled dry materials immediately. Do not
try to wash them away with water, or bury them.
Clean up spills on dirt areas by digging up and
properly disposing of contaminated soil.
Report significant spills immediately, You are required
by law to report all significant releases of hazardous
materials, including oil. To report a spill: 1) Dial 911
or your local emergency response number, 2) Call the
Governor's Office of Emergency Services Waming
Center, (300) 852-7550 (24 hours).

Earthmoving

Q Schedule grading and excavation work
during dry weather.

1 Stabilize all denuded areas, install and
maintain temporary crosion controls (such
as erosion control fabric or bonded fiber
matrix) until vegetation is established,

Q Remove existing vegetation only when
absolutely necessary, and seed or plant
vegetation for erosion contro! on slopes
or where construction is not immediately
planned,

Prevent sediment from migrating offsite
and protect storm drain inlets, gutters,
ditches, and drainage courses by installing
and maintaining appropriate BMPs, such
as fiber rolls, silt fences, sediment basins,
gravel bags, berms, etc.

Q Keep excavated soil on site and transfer it
to dump trucks on site, not in the streets.

Contaminated Soils

O Ifany of the following conditions are
observed, test for contamination and
contact the Regional Water Quality
Control Board:
~ Unusual soil conditions, discoloration,

or odor,
Abandoned underground tanks.
~ Abandoned wells

~ Buried barrels, debris, or trash.

Paving/Asphalt Work

Q) Avoid paving and seal coating in wet
weather or when rain is forecast, to
prevent materials that have not cured
from contacting stormwater runoff.

O Cover storm drain inlets and manholes
‘when applying seal coat, tack coat, slurry
seal, fog seal, etc.

O Collect and recycle or appropriately
dispose of excess abrasive gravel or sand.
Do NOT sweep or wash it into gutters,

Q Do not use water to wash down fresh
asphalt concrete pavement.

Sawcutting & Asphalt/Concrete Removal

Q Protect nearby storm drain inlets when
saw cutting. Use filter fabric, catch basin
inlet filters, or gravel bags to keep slurry
out of the storm drain system.

O) Shovel, abosorb, or vacuum saw-cut
slurry and dispose of all waste as soon
as you are finished in one location or at
the end of each work day (whichever is
sooner),

Q) If saweut slurry enters a catch basin, clean

it up immediately.

Construction Best Management Practices (BMPs)

Construction projects are required to implement the stormwater best management practices (BMP) on this page, as

Concrete, Grout & Mortar
Application

| hea

Q Store concrete, grout, and mortar away
from storm drains or waterways, and on
pallets. under cover to protect them from
rain, runoff, and wind.

Wash out concrete equipment/trucks
offsite or in a designated washout

area, where the water will flow into a
temporary waste pit, and in a manner

that will prevent leaching into the
underlying soil or onto surrounding areas.
Let concrete harden and dispose of as
garbage.

When washing exposed aggregate,
prevent washwater from entering storm
drains. Block any inlets and vacuum
gutters, hose washwater onto dirt areas, or
drain onto a bermed surface to be pumped
and disposed of properly

Landscaping

U Protect stockpiled landscaping materials
from wind and rain, by storing them under
tarps all year-round.

Stack bagged material on pallets and
under cover,

O Discontinue application of any erodible
landscape material within 2 days before a
forecast rain event or during wet weather.

Storm drain polluters may be liable for fines of up to $10,000 per de

Painting & Paint Removal
| in

Painting Cleanup and Removal

Q Never clean brushes or rinse paint
containers into a street, gutter, storm
drain, or stream,

Q) For water-based paints, paint out brushes
to the extent possible, and rinse into a
drain that goes to the sanitary sewer.
Never pour paint down a storm drain,

O For oil-based paints, paint out brushes to
the extent possible and clean with thinner
or solvent in a proper container. Filter and
reuse thinners and solvents, Dispose of
excess liquids as hazardous waste.

O Paint chips and dust from non-hazardous
dry stripping and sand blasting may be
swept up or collected in plastic drop
cloths and disposed of as trash

Q Chemical paint stripping residue and chips
and dust from marine paints or paints
containing lead, mercury, or tributyltin
must be disposed of as hazardous waste.
Lead based paint removal requires a state-
certified contractor.

Q Discharges of groundwater or captured
runoff from dewatering operations must
be properly managed and disposed. When
possible: send dewatering discharge to
landscaped area or sanitary sewer, If
discharging to the sanitary sewer call your
local wastewater treatment plant

Q Divert run-on water from offsite away
from all disturbed areas,

Q When dewatering, notify and obtain
approval from the local municipality
before discharging water to a street gutter
or storm drain, Filtration or diversion
‘through a basin, tank, or sediment trap
may be required.

Q In areas of known or suspected
contamination, call your local agency to
determine whether the ground water must
be tested. Pumped groundwater may need

to be collected and hauled off-site for
‘treatment and proper disposal.

No, 70828
fp. 6-30-25

PORFIRIO OSCAR OSUNA
RCE 70829 EXP. 6-30-23

TEL. (408) 772-4381

Info@osundengineering.com

Planning| Surveying | Civil Engineering

CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS & LAND SURVEYORS

OSUNA

6920 SANTA TERESA BLVD STE. 206

SAN JOSE, CA 95119

BMP SHEET
125 15TH AVE

‘Designed: JO/TMN] Checked: 0.0 | date:1 1/01/2022

GRADING & DRAINAGE PLAN

Project No.: 2158

C4

OF 6 SHEETS



--- page 60 ---
SAN MATEO COUNTY DEPARTMENT
OF
DRAWN BY: __N. SCALE: __NONE.
CHECK BY; __AM.S. PURI: ear DATE: 8/05
APPROVED BY: NRC REVISED;
REDWOOD CITY
CALIFORNIA

FOR CAST IRON CLEANOUT BODY, USE
EITHER BRASS OR PVC PLUG. FOR PVC
WYE_AND RISER SHALL CLEANOUT BODY, USE PVC PLUG.
BE THE SAME PIPE aa
MATERIAL AS THE
PORTION OF THE
LATERAL WHICH &
CONNECTS TO THE % OR FL9D, MARKED SEWER, OR
SEWER MAIN: EXCEPT Srormsmns «EQUAL (SEE NOTE 1)
THE UPPER-MOST 5
FEET OF A VOP RISER
NO HUB COUPLING
SHALL BE CAST IRON. No, pue ou
STAINLESS STEEL
TRANSITION SECTION SHEAR RING
IF NEEDED

45° WYE BRANCH

TYPICAL SEWER CLEANOUT &
BOX DETAIL - NEW CONSTRUCTION

FOR CAST IRON CLEANOUT BODY, USE
7 ETHER BRASS OR PVC PLUG. FOR PVC
“ANOUT BODY, USE PVC PLUG.

WYE_AND RISER SHALL
BE THE SAME PIPE

MATERIAL AS THE
PORTION OF THE CHRISTY 89 UTILITY BOX OR

% EQUAL. LID TO BE CHRISTY 69D
Shaheen 4 —OR FLOD, MARKED SEWER, OR No, 70808
SEWER MAIN; EXCEPT UN EQUAL, (SEE NOTE 1) fp. 6-30-25,
THE UPPER-MOST 3 amit
FEET OF A VCP RISER

SHALL BE CAST IRON. bags aag
STAINLESS STEEL

SHEAR RING
ADJUSTABLE REPAIR COUPLING
45° WYE BRANCH (ARC) WTH CONTINUOUS "PORFIRIO OSCAR OSUNA
STAINLESS STEEL SHEAR RING. RCE 70829 EXP. 6-30-23

TYPICAL SEWER CLEANOUT &
BOX DET, REPLACEMENT

NOIES;

1, WHEN BOX IS SUBJECT 10 TRAFFIC LOADING, PROVIDE CAST IRON LID.

2. BOX TO BE PLACED SUCH THAT CLEANOUT CAP CAN BE EASILY REMOVED, SEE ILLUSTRATION.

3. PROPERTY OWNER IS RESPONSIBLE FOR MAINTAINING LATERAL FROM THE PROPERTY STRUCTURE TO DISTRICT
MAIN. DISTRICT PROVIDES COURTESY SERVICE FROM DISTRICT STANDARD PROPERTY LINE CLEANOUT TO THE MAIN.
4. SDR-26 WYE, RISER, CLEANOUT BODY AND CAP CAN BE USED ONLY WHEN LATERAL FROM PROPERTY LINE TO
MAIN LINE IS REPLACED WITH SOR-26.

5. WHEN ENTIRE LATERAL IS REPLACED, LATERAL FROM PROPERTY LINE CLEANOUT TO MAIN LINE SHALL HAVE A
14-1-UF GUAGE MINIMUM SINGLE CONDUCTOR TRACER WIRE TAPED TO THE ENTIRE LENGTH OF THE PIPE.

CONSTRUCTION OF A STANDARD CLEANOUT REQUIRES MULTIPLE INSPECTIONS BY DISTRICT PERSONEL:
1, FIRST INSPECTION — TO INSPECT WYE AND RISER, WYE AND RISER MUST BE EXPOSED.
2. SECOND INSPECTION — TO INSPECT PLACEMENT OF BOX, LID AND LOCATION OF CLEANOUT WITHIN BOX

C-3

TY FOR JOB SITE CONDITIONS DURING THE COURSE OF CONSTRUCTION OF THIS PROJECT, INCLUDING

TEL. (408) 772-4381
Info@osuncengineering.com

Planning | Surveying | Civil Engineering

CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS & LAND SURVEYORS

6920 SANTA TERESA BLVD STE. 206

SAN JOSE, CA 95119

OSUNA

SHALL’ DEFEND, INDEMNIFY AND HOLD THE OWNER AND THE ENGINEER HARMLESS FROM ANY AND ALL LIABILITY, REAL OR ALLEGED, IN CONNECTION ‘WITH THE PERFORMANCE OF WORK

ON THIS PROJECT, EXCEPTING FOR LIABILITY ARISING FROM THE SOLE NEGLIGENCE OF THE OWNER OR THE ENGINEER.

SI
€
3
8
x
is
a
3
5
3
:
3
Ss
:
8
:
8
Q
8
g
=
,
i
5
3
3
2
Fat
g
3
2
5
5
8
N
g
:
F
E
3
<i
3
2
1g
cS
i
&
5;
z
3
2
5
fs
&
&
N
8
bi

é
$
g
4
ts
q
g
5
8
3
3
¥
3
d
a
3
H
j
"
i
g
Q
g
8
§
8
§
3
8

125 15TH AVE

GRADING & DRAINAGE PLAN
COUNTY STANDARD DETAILS
2 2158

C5

OF 6 SHEETS



--- page 61 ---
LANDSCAPE 
DOCUMENTATION 
PACKAGE
AND CHECKLIST
PROJECT 
INFORMATION
A. DATE: 06-30-2022
B. PROJECT APPLICANT: 
SOUTHWEST INVESTMENT FUNDS
PROJECT ADDRESS: 125, 15TH 
AVENUE, SAN MATEO, CA
APN NO:
D. TOTAL IRRIGATED LANDSCAPE 
AREA= 1269 SQ FT
E. WATER SUPPLY: POTABLE, 
CAL-WATER
F. PROJECT TYPE: NEW 
RESIDENCE
G. PROJECT CHECKLIST: SEE BELOW
H. PROJECT CONTACT:MENAKA RAO 
650 644 7631, RUSSELL STRINGHAM, 
408-886-4089
4 M YR 
COM 5 g
I. LANDSCAPE DOCUMENTATION 
PACKAGE CERTIFICATION:
" I agree to comply with the requirements of 
the water efficient landscape
ordinance and submit a complete landscape 
documentation package"
Signat
ure
06-30-
2022
RUSSELL 
STRINGHAM LA 
#3091
2. WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPE 
WORKSHEET
Mulc 
h
PLANTING 
NOTES
D. HYDROZONE INFORMATION TABLE - SEE 
SHEETS L-3
E. WATER BUDGET CALCULATIONS MAWA 
AND ETWU- SEE SHEETS L-3
3. SOIL 
MANAGEMENT 
REPORT
CONSULT CIVIL
THE PLANTING PLAN IS DIAGRAMMATIC ONLY. THE EXACT 
LOCATION OF PLANT MATERIAL
SHALL BE DETERMINED ON SITE. THE EXACT LOCATION 
OF PLANTS ONSITE WILL ADHERE TO
SETBACK REQUIREMENTS FROM THE OWTS.
4. LANDSCAPE 
DESIGN PLAN
SEE SHEET L-1
5. IRRIGATION 
DESIGN PLAN
SEE SHEET L-2
THE CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY THAT THE SOIL TO BE 
PLANTED IS NATIVE, AND FREE
FROM ANY FOREIGN MATERIALS OR SUBSTANCES, 
WITH A MINIMUM DEPTH OF 8 INCHES
OF NON COMPACTED TOPSOIL.
6. GRADING 
DESIGN PLAN
TILL ALL NEW PLANTING AREAS TO A DEPTH OF 8", 
AND REMOVE ALL WEEDS, STICKS,
OVER 1/2 INCH DIAMETER AND ANY OTHER MATERIAL 
THAT WOULD BE HARMFUL TO
TO PLANT GROWTH.
SEE CIVIL ENGINEER 
PLAN SHEET
ALL NEW PLANTING AREAS SHALL 
RECEIVE A 3" LAYER OF WOOD
RESIDUAL. TILL IN TO A DEPTH OF 6" AND 
FINE GRADE.
LANDSCAPE 
DOCUMENTATION 
CHECKLIST
#4, 21" OAK TREE TO BE 
REMOVED
REFER ARBORIST 
REPORT FOR DETAILS
1. PROJECT 
INFORMATION- CHECK
ALL PLANT MATERIAL SHALL RECEIVE "AGRIFORM" 
FERTILIZER TABLETS AT THE TIME
OF PLANTING, INSERTED IN THE BACKFILL MIX AT 
HALF THE DEPTH OF THE ROOTBALL.
TABLET QUANTITIES AND SIZE AS INDICATED ON THE 
PLANTING DETAILS.
2. WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPE 
WORKSHEET- CHECK
3. SOIL MANAGEMENT REPORT- 
DEFERRED
4. LANDSCAPE DESIGN PLAN-
CHECK
10" DIA EXISTING 
TREE TO BE
REMOVED
5 HEL 
SEM 1 g
5. IRRIGATION DESIGN 
PLAN- CHECK
6. GRADING DESIGN 
PLAN-REFER CIVIL
AFTER FINE GRADING, AND PLANTING, (PRIOR TO TOP 
DRESSING WITH MULCH) A
PRE-EMERGENT HERBICIDE SHALL BE APPLIED AT A 
RATE AND METHOD
RECOMMENDED BY THE PRODUCT MANUFACTURER. 
SPREAD AS A TOP DRESSING, A 3"
LAYER OF MULCH, IN ALL PLANTING AREAS FOR
LAWN
1 2 4 
sq ft
7 M YR 
COM 5 g
ADDITIONAL WEED CONTROL AND WATER RETENTION. 
SUBMIT A SAMPLE FOR APPROVAL.
ALL PLANT MATERIAL SUBSTITUTIONS SHALL BE 
APPROVED BY THE OWNERS OR THE
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT.
PAVER
S
7 HEL 
SEM 1 g
ALL PLANTING DETAILS SHALL BE CLOSELY 
FOLLOWED, AND ALL LOCAL GOVERNING
CODES SHALL BE MET.
ALL PLANT MATERIALS SHALL BE IN A HEALTHY, 
VIGOROUS, AND DISEASE FREE
CONDITION. THE PLANT SIZE SHALL BE 
PROPORTIONAL TO THE CONTAINER SIZE
SPECIFIED. PLANTS NOT MEETING THESE 
REQUIREMENTS WILL BE REFUSED, EVEN IF
PLANTED.
porc
h
IT IS THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE OWNER TO SUBMIT 
LANDSCAPE PLANS TO THE
GOVERNING MUNICIPALITY FOR APPROVAL
OF THE PLANS, AND TO OBTAIN BUILDING PERMITS. IF 
ANY CHANGES OR ADDITIONS
TO THE PLANS NEED TO BE MADE. THE OWNER SHALL 
RETURN THE PLANS, WITH THE
CITY REVIEW COMMENTS FOR REVISIONS. FINAL 
APPROVAL MUST BE OBTAINED FROM
THE GOVERNING MUNICIPALITY PRIOR TO THE 
BEGINNING OF ANY CONSTRUCTION.
REFER ARBORIST REPORT BY MONARCH CONSULTING 
DATED 29TH SEPTEMBER, 2022 FOR ALL
TREE LOCATIONS, DETAILS, RECOMMENDATIONS AND 
TREE PROTECTION DETAILS.
I HAVE COMPLIED WITH THE CRITERIA OF THE WATER 
CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING
ORDINANCE AND APPLIED THEM FOR THE EFFICIENT 
USE OF WATER IN THE LANDSCAPE
DESIGN PLAN.
A MINIMUM OF 3-INCH LAYER OF MULCH SHALL BE 
APPLIED ON EXPOSED SOIL SURFACES OF
PLANTING AREAS EXCEPT TURF AREAS, CREEPING OR 
ROOTING GROUNDCOVERS, OR DIRECT
SEEDING APPLICATIONS WHERE MULCH IS 
CONTRAINDICATED.
#2 EXISTING TREE 
TO REMAIN
FOR SOILS LESS THAN 6% ORGANIC MATTER IN THE TOP 
6 INCHES OF SOIL, COMPOST AT A
RATE OF A MINIMUM OF FOUR CUBIC YARDS PER 1000 SQ 
FT OF PERMEABLE AREA SHALL
BE INCORPORATED TO A DEPTH OF SIX INCHES INTO THE 
SOIL.
4 M YR 
COM 5 g
porc
h
#3, 8" Lemon tree to be 
removed,refer
arborist report for details
LAWN
9 0 sq 
ft
CONC. 
WALKWAY
WM

--- page 62 ---
3/4
"
3/4
"
HYDROZO
NE 1
(area= 147 
sq ft)
A-
1
1"
1" 
8
HYDROZ
ONE 2
(area= 67 
sq ft)
A-
2
1"
1"
1" 
6
8
8
HYDROZ
ONE 3
(area= 116 
sq ft)
3/4
"
3/4
"
A-
3
3/4
"
1" 
4
8
8
3/4
"
3/4
"
07-26-
2022
HYDROZ
ONE 6A-6
3/4
"
1" 
8
1"
IRRIGATION 
LEGEND
IRRITROL MC-E (BLUE) SERIES WITH "CLIMATE 
LOGIC" ON SITE WIRELESS
WEATHER SENSOR. 8 STATION. WEATHER 
BASED SMART CONTROLLER.
A
IRRITROL #FS-B150 1 1/4" LINE SIZE FLOW SENSOR TO BE 
USED WITH THE CONTROLLER.
CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY COMPABILITY BETWEEN THE 
CONTROLLER AND THE FLOW SENSOR.
ZURN WILKINS REDUCED PRESSURE BACKFLOW 
PREVENTER 1 1/4"
AT POINT OF CONNECTION PROVIDE A MASTER SHUT 
OFF VALVE (ZURN-WILKINS
MODEL 850XL FULL PORT BRONZE BALL VALVE 1 1/4") 
TO BE MOUNTED UPSTREAM FROM
THE BACKFLOW PREVENTER.
RAINBIRD FMD SERIES LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION 
WATER SUB-METER
FM150B 1 1/4" (1.54 TO 100 GPM) ALL IRRIGATION 
VALVES TO BE DOWNSTREAM
FROM THE SUB-METER TO MEASURE ALL 
IRRIGATION USED FOR LANDSCAPING.
M-
1
THE SUBMETER WILL BE USED TO MEASURE WATER USAGE 
FOR IRRIGATING THE LANDSCAPE.
THE SUBMETER WILL BE PLACED BELOW GRADE.
HYDROZ
ONE 5A-5
3/4
"
Y STRAINER WILKINS YSBR SERIES WITH A 100 
MESH SCREEN (LINE SIZE) MOUNT
AS PART OF THE BACK FLOW ASSEMBLY.
8
8
1" 
5
1"
RAINBIRD PEB SERIES ELECTRIC REMOTE 
CONTROL VALVE SIZE AS NOTED.
3/4
"
8
3/4
"
8
PRESSURIZED WATER MAIN, PVC 
SCHEDULE 40, BURY 18" MIN.
IRRIGATION LINE PVC CLASS 200, 
BURY 12" MIN.
8
3/4
"
USE SLEEVES WHERE EVER IRRIGATION LINES MUST 
PASS UNDER PAVING, TO BE
COORDINATED ON SITE BY THE LANDSCAPE 
CONTRACTOR. SLEEVES SHALL BE 4" PVC
SCHEDULE 40 BURY 18" MIN., EXTEND 6" BEYOND 
EDGE OF PAVING
3/4
"
WM
A-
12
CIRCUIT 
DESIGNATION
GALLONS PER 
MINUTE
1"1
2
1-
1/4"
VALVE 
SIZE
8
TORO 570Z 8'RADIUS (PROVIDE ARC AS 
NEEDED FOR PROPER COVERAGE)
AGRIFIM MAXI-FLO 
BUBBLER
6 OUTLETS AT 10 GPH EACH OPERATING RANGE 
20-80 PSI
USE A Y-STRAINER DOWN STREAM FROM VALVE 
FOR EACH CIRCUIT
(SEE IRRIGATION LEGEND FOR SIZE AND TYPE 
OF FILTER)
USE 1/4" DISTRIBUTION TUBING ( .170" I.D. X 
.250" O.D.-POLY)
-MAXIMUM RUN 8' - LINES SHALL NOT TEE. 
PROVIDE ONE LINE TO EACH
SHRUB OR GROUND COVER, AND TWO TO 
EACH TREE
USE SUPPORT STAKE #S6 AT END
USE BUG PLUG #BP250
Y STRAINER FOR ALL DRIP CIRCUITS
MOUNT IN A SEPERATE PLASTIC BOX DOWN 
STREAM FROM THE VALVE.
QUICK COUPLING VALVE, RAINBIRD 44LRC 1", 
MOUNT IN A PLASTIC VALVE BOX
WITH A COVER. EXACT LOCATIONS TO BE 
DETERMINED ON SITE.

--- page 63 ---
IRRIGATION 
NOTES
PLAN IS DIAGRAMMATIC; THE EXACT LOCATION OF 
VALVES, LINES, HEADS, ETC., SHALL BE
DETERMINED IN THE FIELD. LINES SHALL BE IN A COMMON 
TRENCH WHERE POSSIBLE.
THE ENTIRE IRRIGATION SYSTEM WILL BE WITHIN THE 
PROPERTY BOUNDARIES. THE LOCATION
OF MAIN LINES, BACKFLOW, VALVES, ETC., ON THE 
DRAWINGS, IS SCHEMATIC.
LINES SHALL BE IN A COMMON TRENCH WHERE 
POSSIBLE.
LINES AND SLEEVES TO BE INSTALLED UNDER 
PAVING SHALL BE SCHEDULE 40 PVC.
THE LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR 
LOCATING AND PROTECTING ALL
UNDERGROUND UTILITIES. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL 
NOT OPERATE ANY HEAVY EQUIP.
OVER UTILITY LINES AND SHALL HAND DIG ANY 
TRENCHES WITHIN 5' OF UTILITY LINES.
THE CONTRACTOR SHALL REPAIR ANY DAMAGE TO 
UTILITY LINES AT HIS OWN EXPENSE.
IRRIGATION SYSTEM WAS DESIGNED FOR A MAXIMUM 
OF 12 GPM AT 40 PSI WORKING
PRESSURE (WORST CONDITION AT FURTHEST 
HEAD/DRIP UNIT. IRRIGATION CONT.
TO VERIFY PRESSURE PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION OF 
ANY PART OF THE IRRIGATION
SYSTEM. IF WORKING PRESSURE IS GREATER THAN 75 
PSI, CONSULT THE LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECT FOR USE OF A PRESSURE REGULATOR. IF 
WORKING PRESSURE IS LESS THAN
40 PSI CONSULT LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT.
GENERAL 
NOTES
THE LANDSCAPE DESIGN FOR THIS 
PROJECT COMBINES
BOTH DROUGHT TOLERANT 
PLANTINGS, AND A HIGHLY
EFFICIENT DRIP IRRIGATION 
SYSTEM TO COMPLY WITH
THE LOCAL WATER ORDINANCE, 
AND PROVIDE A
LANDSCAPE THAT IS WATER WISE, 
SUSTAINABLE, AND
LOW MAINTENANCE.
THE WATER SOURCE FOR THE IRRIGATION SYSTEM 
SHALL BE PROTECTED FROM BACK
FLOW BY A BACK FLOW PREVENTER (TO BE 
INSTALLED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH CITY STANDARD DETAILS).
ALL VALVE WIRING SHALL BE COPPER U.L. APPROVED 
FOR DIRECT BURIAL. CONNECT
WIRES USING SPLICE-KOTE WIRE CONNECTORS. WIRE 
SIZE TO BE #12 AWG MIN. (RUNS
LONGER THAN 1000 FT. SHALL BE #10 AWG) ONE SPARE 
CONTROL WIRE TO BE PROVIDED
THROUGHOUT
MOST OF THE PLANTINGS 
PROPOSED ARE DROUGHT
TOLERANT WITH A HIGH MAJORITY 
HAVING THE
WUCOLS CLASSIFICATION OF LOW 
OR VERY LOW
WATER USE. THE SPACING OF THE 
PLANT MATERIALS
ALLOW THE PLANTS TO MATURE TO 
THEIR ULTIMATE
SIZE WITHOUT THE NEED FOR 
SHEERING, HEADING
BACK, AND EXCESSIVE 
OFFHAULING OF CUTTINGS. THE
SPACING OF THE PLANT MATERIALS 
ALSO ALLOW SOME
NEGATIVE SPACE WHICH WILL 
PROVIDE A NON-OVER
PLANTED LOOK, AND VISUAL 
INTEREST. ALL AREAS NOT
PLANTED WILL HAVE A 3" MINIMUM 
LAYER OF MULCH
FOR WEED PREVENTION, SOIL 
STABLILATION, AND
WATER RETENTION.
ALL BACKFILL MATERIAL SHALL BE FREE OF ROCKS 
(OVER 3/4"), AND OTHER EXTRANEOUS
MATERIALS, AND SHALL BE COMPACTED TO PREVENT 
SETTLING.
AT JOB COMPLETION SUPPLY OWNERS WITH 
CONTROLLER KEYS, AND MANUFACTURERS
PRODUCT INFORMATION.
ALL IRRIGATION DETAILS SHALL BE CLOSELY FOLLOWED, 
AND ALL GOVERNING CODES SHALL
BE SATISFIED.
THE DRIP IRRIGATION SYSTEM WAS DESIGNED TO 
PROVIDE ONE DISTRIBUTION LINE TO EACH
SHRUB (LINES SHALL NOT BE TEED), AND TWO LINES FOR 
EACH TREE.
THE IRRIGATION SYSTEM IS 
ROBUST, TIME PROVEN,
WITH ALL SHRUBS AND 
GROUNDCOVERS BEING DRIP
IRRIGATED. THE LAWN WILL BE 
SPRAY IRRIGATED. THE
IRRIGATION SYSTEM USES A 
CONTROLLER THAT HAS
THE CAPABILTY OF BEING 
WEATHER BASED, RECIEVING
DAILY WEATHER INPUT TO ADJUST 
THE IRRIGATION
SCHEDULE BASED ON REAL TIME 
WEATHER INPUT. THIS
WILL ELIMINATE WATERING DURING 
TIME OF HIGH
HUMIDITY, RAIN, OR HIGH SOIL 
SATURATION. THE
IRRIGATON SYSTEM WILL BE ALL 
HARD PIPE
THE IRRIGATION CONTRACTOR SHALL COORDINATE THE 
SPRINKLER HEAD/DRIP UNIT LOCATIONS
AND QUANTITIES WITH THE PLANTING PLAN, AND PROVIDE 
PROPER IRRIGATION TO ALL PLANT
MATERIALS SHOWN ON THE PLANTING PLANS. THE 
IRRIGATION CONTRACTOR SHALL TEST THE
IRRIGATION SYSTEM PRIOR TO ANY BACK FILLING, AND 
SHALL CONTACT THE LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECT WITH ANY DESCREPANCIES BETWEEN THE 
DRAWINGS AND FIELD CONDITIONS.
NO TRENCHING WITHIN THE DRIP LINE OF EXISTING 
TREES SHALL BE PERMITTED. IF
IRRIGATION LINES MUST PASS THROUGH THE DRIP LINE 
OF EXISTING TREES, CONSULT THE
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT.
GREAT CARE SHALL BE GIVEN TO PREVENT DIRT FROM 
ENTERING THE IRRIGATION SYSTEM
DURING CONSTRUCTION. FLUSH THE ENTIRE SYSTEM 
THOROUGHLY BEFORE INSTALLING
THE MAXI FLO HEADS. ALL DRIP CIRCUITS SHALL HAVE A 
Y STRAINER AS INDICATED ON
THE IRRIGATION LEGEND
UNDERGROUND, WITH THREADED 
RISERS, AND A
THREADED DISTRIBUTION HEAD, 
WITH NO POLY PIPE OR
BARBED CONNECTIONS. Y -
STRAINERS WILL BE USED
AT EACH VALVE.
I HAVE COMPLIED WITH THE CRITERIA OF WATER 
CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING
ORDINANCE AND APPLIED THEM ACCORDINGLY FOR 
THE EFFICIENT USE OF WATER IN
THE IRRIGATION DESIGN PLAN.
A LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION AUDIT IS 
REQUIRED. THIS
AUDIT MUST BE COMPLETED BY A 
CERTIFIED
LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION AUDITOR, 
NOT THE DESIGNER
OR INSTALLER. THE AUDIT MUST 
BE SUBMITTED TO THE
BUILDING DEPARTMENT, WITH A 
CERTIFIECATE OF
COMPLETION (APPENDIX C) AS 
REQUIRED BY THE
DEPARTMENT OF WATER 
RESOURCES, PRIOR TO
SCHEDULING A FINAL INSPECTION 
OF THE WATER
EFFICIENT LANDSCAPE PERMIT.
SEE WATER BUDGET PREPARED FOR THIS SITE AND 
SUBMITTED WITH THIS DRAWING SET
THE IRRIGATION CONTROLLER SHALL BE WEATHER BASED, TO 
LIMIT WATER
WASTE PER WELO 12.44.070C2. CONTROLLER MAY NOT RELY 
SOLELY ON TIME BASED SCHEDULING.
IRRIGATION SPRAY HEADS SHALL BE PLACED AND ADJUSTED TO 
PREVENT OVERSPRAY ONTO PAVED AREA,
AND ADJUSTED TO PREVENT FOGGING AND MISTING. NOZZELS TO 
BE PRESSURE COMPENSATING.
PRESSURE REGULATING DEVICES ARE REQUIRED IF WATER 
PRESSURE IS BELOW OR EXCEEDS THE
RECOMMENDED PRESSURE OF THE SPECIFIED IRRIGATION 
DEVICES.
A DIAGRAM OF THE IRRIGATION PLAN SHOWING HYDROZONES SHALL BE 
KEPT WITH THE IRRIGATION CONTROLLER FOR
SUBSEQUENT MANAGEMENT PURPOSES.
A CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION SHALL BE FILLED OUT AND CERTIFIED 
BY EITHER THE DESIGNER OF THE LANDCAPE
PLANS, IRRIGATION PLANS, OR THE LICENSED LANDSCAPE 
CONTRACTOR OF THE PROJECT.
AN IRRIGATION AUDIT REPORT SHALL BE COMPLETED 
AT THE TIME OF FINAL INSPECTION.
USE CHECK VALVES WHERE NEEDED TO PREVENT 
DRAINAGE TO LOW POINT HEADS.
IRRIGATION 
SCHEDULE
1.Irrigation scheduled for the plant establishment period would be 
2 to 3 times a week for the first month
followed by twice a week for the following months for upto a year 
until the roots are well established.
April - October: Twice a week with run time of 20 minutes
November- March: Run time of 15 minutes
The system can be shut off on rainy days for the months of 
November to February. Additional watering by
hand can be provided for extremely hot days.
2. Irrigation scheduling for the established landscape would be as follows:
For the second year of the landscape:
May- September: twice a week with a run time of twenty minutes
October- April:once a week with a run time of twenty minutes
The system can be shut off during the months of November to February 
assuming that rainfall provides the necessary irrigation.
For the following years the landscape can be irrigated once a 
week.
Once established, drought tolerant plants need to be watered 
only once in two weeks or on a need basis.
Note: The above only acts as a guide. Irrigation schedules can be modified by home 
owner depending on actual weather and soil conditions.
([LVWLQJꢀIXOO\ꢀHVWDEOLVKHGꢀSODQWVꢀDQGꢀWUHHVꢀRQꢀVLWHꢀWKDWꢀZHUHꢀUHWDLQHGꢀDUHꢀWRꢀEHꢀLUULJDWHGꢀ
DVꢀSHUꢀDQꢀµHVWDEOLVKHGꢀODQGVFDSHꢀVFKHGXOH¶ꢁ
Drought tolerant plants need to be regularly watered for the first two years until they 
are well established after which they can do
quite well with watering them even twice a month.
Water used for irrigation per month to be below the MAWA values as shown the water 
efficient table .
The irrigation controller will be weather based as specified in the irrigation legend.
The controller will receive real time weather information,and adjust the programmed 
watering schedule automatically based on local weather.
This will restrict watering during times of precipitation and will help to conserve water.
PLASTIC BOX W/ 
LOCK-
ABLE COVER, 
SET FLUSH
TO GRADE
1" 
MAX
FIN 
GRADE
#12 GROUND 
WIRE W/
SNAP-TITE 
CONNECTORS
6" 
MAX
SCHED. 80 PVC 
UNION (TYP)
SCHED. 80 PVC 
NIPPLE (TYP)
SCHED. 40 PVC 
90 DEG.
ELL (STREET 
ELL NOT
ACCEPTABLE)
PVC FEMALE 
REDUCER
CLASS 200 PVC 
LATERAL
NOTES :
PEA GRAVEL
ENTIRE AREA 
OF BOX
2" 
MIN
6" 
MIN
#14 CONTROL 
WIRES W/
SNAP-TITE 
CONNECTORS
PROVIDE ONE 
SPARE
CONTROL WIRE
ALL THREADED 
AREAS
SHALL BE 
HEAVILY COATED
W/ JOINT 
COMPOUND.
ALL CONTROL 
WIRES
LOOPED UP 3 
FT. INTO
EACH BOX 
EXCEPT
IN CLUSTERS.
SCHED. 40 PVC 
TEE (SST)
PVC MAIN 
LINE
REMOTE 
CONTROL 
VALVE
N.T.
S.

--- page 64 ---
1'-6" 
MIN
2" 
MIN
(TYP)
4-PLY 1" X 24" 
RUBBER TIES
INSTALLED W/ A 
TWIST &
NAILED TO STAKE
PINE 
STAKE
1 1/4" GALV. 
ROOFING NAIL
(1 EACH END)
TRE
E1" X 4" 
RWD
PLA
N
RUBBER TIES 
PLACED
6" MAX BELOW 
MAIN FORK
OR BRANCH, 
INSTALLED W/
A TWIST & NAILED 
TO STAKE
APPLICABLE 
CODES
3" DEEP 
MULCH
3" BERM
(2) 2" DIA LODGE 
POLE
PINE STAKES - 15 
GAL OR
SMALLER , (2) 3" 
DIA
LODGE POLE PINE 
STAKES -
24" OR LARGER
SCOPE OF 
WORK
1" X 4" ROUGH 
REDWOOD W/
(2) 2" GALV NAILS 
EACH
CONNECTION 
(LOCATE ON
PREVAILING WIND 
SIDE)
FIN 
GR
BACKFILL 
MIX
3" DEPTH BARK 
MULCH
Work Hours 
and Parking
ALLOW ROOT 
BALL TO
SETTLE TO 
FINISH GRADE
21 GRAM PLANT 
TABLET
FIN 
GR
1 GC
5 GC
15 
GC
1TABLE
TS
2 TABLET
S3 TABLET
S
SCARIFY 
SIDES
BACK FILL 
MIX
FERTILIZER 
TABLETS
1 GAL
2 OR 5 
GAL
15 GAL
2 TABLET
S3 TABLET
S6 TABLET
S
10 
TABLETS
Nois
e
ALLOW ROOT 
BALL TO
SETTLE TO 
FINISH GRADE
24" 
BOXOR 
LARGER
6"
FOOT 
TAMP
1'-6" MIN
2 X 
CONTAINE
R
4" DIA X 3' L 
PERFORATED
PVC PIPE W/ 
STYRENE
DRAIN GRATE 
COVER
ELEVAT
ION
SHRUB 
PLANTING
TREE 
PLANTING
N.T.
S.
N.T.
S.

--- page 65 ---
Building Division er .
pauls ani hii Water Conservation in Landscaping
San Mateo, CA 94403 Project Information and Submission Checklist

(650) 522 “7172 REVISED 08/22/19
www.cityofsanmateo.org

Project Information
Site Address / APN: 125, 15th Avenue, San Mateo, CA

Project Type / Description (residential, commercial, industrial): residential

Total Landscape Area (sq. ft.): 1269 Water Supply Type: Potable

Property Owner Information
Name: South West Investment funds

Phone: 6525 Crown Blvd, #20703
Address; San Jose, CA 95160
Email: mikedanao@gmail.com

Applicant Information (if different from property owner)
Name; South West Investment funds

Phone; 6525 Crown Blvd, #20703
Address: San Jose, CA 95160
Email: mikedanao@gmail.com

Shown on Plans /

Submittal Checklist Page #
1. Water Efficient Landscape Worksheet

a. Hydrozone Information Table

b. Water Budget Calculations L-2, L-3

i, Maximum Applied Water Allowance (MAWA)

ii. Estimated Total Water Use (ETWU)

ININI SSIS

2. Soil Management Plan

XS

L-1

3. Landscape Design Plan

[x

4, Irrigation Design Plan L-2

Signature
| agree to comply with the requirements of the WELO and submit a complete Landscape Document Package.

wha hey Digitally signed by menaka 07/26/2022
Landscape Plans Preparer Signature Required Date
i
10f6 QACDDIWELO Sample Forms\San Mateo

Building Division Water Conservation in Landscaping
330 West 20th Avenue

San Mateo, CA 94403 Screening Form
(650) 522-7172
www.cityofsanmateo.org

REVISED 08/22/19

The City of San Mateo has adopted a Water Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance (SMMC.
23.72) to ensure that all qualified development projects comply with the State of California's
Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance (WELO). This ordinance was created to reduce water usage
and ensure landscapes are constructed to allow for the efficient use of water.

This form will help you determine whether your project qualifies for the ordinance and connect you
with the necessary forms to complete your application. Table 1 outlines the requirements for
new construction’ while Table 2 highlights the specifics for rehabilitated landscape*
projects.

Table 1: New Construction Projects

Landscape Area® Guidance Select
<500 square feet The ordinance does not apply to your project.
500<2500 square feet Submit the Prescriptive Measures Form. iv
22500 square feet Applicant must submit Full Landscape Project Documentation Package.

Table 2: Rehabilitated Landscape Projects

Landscape Area Guidance Select
<1000 square feet The ordinance does not apply to your project. 4
Jot

1000<2500 square feet | Submit the Prescriptive Measures Form
22500 square feet Applicant must submit Full Landscape Project Documentation Package.

Project Information

Project Address: 125 15th Avenue,

San Mateo, CA

Permit#: == Landscape Area (sq. ft): 1269
Name; Mike Danao
Signature: Date: 07/25/ 2022

‘New construction — includes a new building with landscape, or other new landscape such as a park, playground, or greenbelt without an associated building

2 Rehabiltated landscape - any re-landscaping project that requires @ permit, plan check, or design review; meets the requirements of 23.72; and has a modified landscape
‘area equal to or greater than 2,500 square feet

3 Landscape area - all the planting areas, turf areas, and water features in a landscape design plan subject to the maximum applied water allowance calculation. The
landscape area does not include footprints of buildings or structures, sidewalks, driveways, parking lots, decks, pais, gravel or stone walks, other pervious or non- pervious
hhardscapes, other non-iigated areas designated for non development (eg., open spaces and existing native vegetation)

1of1 Q:\CDD\WELO Sample Forms\San Mateo

OM

Menaka Rao

LANDSCAPE DESIGN

4653 MonteCarlo Park Court
Fremont, CA 94538
Ph:650 644 7631

DRAWN BY:
MENAKA RAO.

SIGNED BY:

RUSSELL STRINGHAM
LA #3091

109)
Ww
bk
fe)
z
ui «6
DF
zZzO¢§
we
>Oz#
Cu 7
8
c

as
We) Y
_ Z
wo Zz
Nn< gs
—-YnN a

NEW RESIDENCE

REVISION|REVISION DATE

DATE
08-17-22

SCALE:

1' = 1/8"



--- page 66 ---
AMS
DESI
GN
AMSD
ESIGN
4010 MOORPARK 
AVE#101,
SAN JOSE, CA 
95117
TELL: (415)254.1606
E-MAIL: 
OFFICE@AMSDESIGNLLP
.COM
Azadeh 
Masrour
53'-
2"
THESE PLANS ARE INTENDED ONLY FOR THE 
ORIGINAL SITE FOR WHICH
THEY WERE DESIGNED AND ARE THE 
PROPERTY OF AMS DESIGN. THESE
PLANS ARE PROTECTED UNDER COPYRIGHT 
LAWS AND MAY NOT BE
REVISED OR REPRODUCED IN WHOLE OR 
IN PART WITHOUT THE
EXPRESSED WRITTEN CONSENT OF AMS 
DESIGN. ANY USE OF THESE
PLANS ON OTHER SITES IS PROHIBITED 
WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF AMS
DESIGN. ANY DISCREPANCY DISCOVERED ON 
THESE PLANS SHALL PRIOR
TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE WORK IN 
QUESTION. ALL WRITTEN
DIMENSIONS SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER 
SCALED DIMENSIONS.
6'-9"
2'-6"
5'-
10"
11'-
3"
2'-5"
14'-
8"
0'-6"
5'-8"
9'-0"
0'-6" 1'-0"
1'-0"
0'-
10"
1'-2"0'-
4"
0'-7"
0'-7"
0'-8" 1'-
2"
1'-
11"
2'-4"
1'-
10"
3'-6"
2'-5"
2'-5"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
1'-6"
3'-4"
1'-
10"
3'-
10"
2536
2536
2536
3042
PROJECT 
NAME:
3044
3044
3044
3044
1103
0
3568
3668
2668
3624
15TH 
AVE.
19'-
10"
RESIDE
NCE
D/W
13'-
11"
2'-
10"
3'-1"
125 15TH 
AVE.,
SAN MATEO, 
CA 94402
REVISION 
TABLE:
2106
8
2468
REVISION 
DATE
JULY.202
2
BY DE
P
30'-
10"
01
S.A. 
PLN
DR.
WA.
1106
8
2868
4025
ALL WORK DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS 
SHALL BE VERIFIED FOR
DIMENSION, GRADE, EXTENT AND 
COMPATIBILITY TO THE EXISTING SITE.
ANY DISCREPANCIES AND UNEXPECTED 
CONDITIONS THAT AFFECT OR
CHANGE THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THE 
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS SHALL
BE BROUGHT TO THE AMS DESIGN’S 
ATTENTION IMMEDIATELY. DO NOT
PROCEED WITH THE WORK IN THE AREA OF 
DISCREPANCIES UNTIL ALL
SUCH DISCREPANCIES ARE RESOLVED. IF THE 
CONTRACTOR CHOOSES
TO DO SO HE SHALL BE PRECEDING AT HIS 
OWN RISK.
2030
2030
3020
2030
2030
1353
1353
OMISSIONS FROM THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS OR THE MIS-
DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK WHICH IS 
MANIFESTLY NECESSARY TO
CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS 
AND SPECIFICATIONS, OR
WHICH IS CUSTOMARILY REFORMED, 
SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE
CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING SUCH 
OMITTED OR MIS-DESCRIBED
DETAILS OF THE WORK AS IF FULLY AND 
COMPLETELY SET FORTH AND
DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS.
1'-1"
0'-
11"
1'-0"
0'-
11"
1'-2" 
1'-3"
1'-3"
1'-4"
4'-0"
6'-5"
4'-4"
2'-0"
2'-0"
3'-5"
3'-0"
1'-9"
1'-5" 2'-0"
2'-0"
2'-9"
1'-9"
5'-2"
1'-
10"
1'-
11"
SITE CONDITIONS: ALL CONTRACTORS AND 
SUB-CONTRACTORS SHALL
VERIFY DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS AT 
THE SITE PRIOR TO
COMMENCEMENT OF THEIR WORK. FAILURE 
TO DO SO SHALL NOT
RELEASE THEM FROM THE RESPONSIBILITY 
OF ESTIMATING THE WORK.
IF ANY VARIATION, DISCREPANCY OR 
OMISSION (BETWEEN THE INTENT
OF THESE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND THE 
EXISTING CONDITIONS ARE
FOUND, THE CONTRACTOR OR SUB-
CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY AMS
DESIGN IN WRITING AND OBTAIN WRITTEN 
RESOLUTION FROM AMS
DESIGN PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH ANY 
RELATED WORK.
19'-
10"
12'-
8"
2'-7"
5'-9"
2'-4"
9'-1"
14'-
4"
53'-
2"
SHEET 
TITLE:
EXISTING 
FLOOR
PLAN
EXISTING 
FLOOR PLAN
1
SC : 1/4" = 
1'-0"
PROJEC
T ID:
----
NOR
TH
DAT
E:
JAN.20
22
1/4'' = 
1'
SCAL
E:
LEGE
ND:
DRAWN 
BY:
S.A.
SHEET 
NUMBER:RA-
01.01
EXISTING WALL TO 
STAY
EXISTING WALL TO 
BE REMOVED
GRAPHIC 
SCALE : 1/4 INCH
= 1 
FEET
0 1 2 3 4 5
10
15

--- page 67 ---
AMS
40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLE ROOF
11'-3" TOP 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
4
DESI
GN
4
12
12
8' PLATE 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
AMSD
ESIGN
4010 MOORPARK 
AVE#101,
SAN JOSE, CA 
95117
FIREPLA
CE
TELL: 
(415)254.1606
STUCC
O
E-MAIL: 
OFFICE@AMSDESIGNLLP
.COM
F.F.
Azadeh 
Masrour
12'' ABOVE
NATURAL 
GRADE
THESE PLANS ARE INTENDED ONLY FOR THE 
ORIGINAL SITE FOR WHICH
THEY WERE DESIGNED AND ARE THE 
PROPERTY OF AMS DESIGN. THESE
PLANS ARE PROTECTED UNDER COPYRIGHT 
LAWS AND MAY NOT BE
REVISED OR REPRODUCED IN WHOLE OR 
IN PART WITHOUT THE
EXPRESSED WRITTEN CONSENT OF AMS 
DESIGN. ANY USE OF THESE
PLANS ON OTHER SITES IS PROHIBITED 
WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF AMS
DESIGN. ANY DISCREPANCY DISCOVERED ON 
THESE PLANS SHALL PRIOR
TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE WORK IN 
QUESTION. ALL WRITTEN
DIMENSIONS SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER 
SCALED DIMENSIONS.
NATURAL 
GRADE LINE
EXISTING FRONT (SOUTH-
EAST) ELEVATION
1
SC : 1/4" = 
1'-0"
FIREPLA
CE
40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLE ROOF
11'-3" TOP 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
4
12
4
12
8' PLATE 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
PROJECT 
NAME:
15TH 
AVE.
RESIDE
NCE
STUCC
O
12'' ABOVE
NATURAL 
GRADE
F.F.
NATURAL 
GRADE LINE
125 15TH 
AVE.,
EXISTING REAR (NORTH-
WEST) ELEVATION
2
SAN MATEO, 
CA 94402
SC : 1/4" = 
1'-0"
REVISION 
TABLE:
40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLE ROOF
REVISION 
DATE
JULY.202
2
BY DE
P
FIREPLA
CE
01
S.A. 
PLN
11'-3" TOP 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
8' PLATE 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
9' (GARAGE) 
PLATE HT.
ABOVE 
N.GRADE
Electrical 
Meter
STUCC
O
ALL WORK DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS 
SHALL BE VERIFIED FOR
DIMENSION, GRADE, EXTENT AND 
COMPATIBILITY TO THE EXISTING SITE.
ANY DISCREPANCIES AND UNEXPECTED 
CONDITIONS THAT AFFECT OR
CHANGE THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THE 
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS SHALL
BE BROUGHT TO THE AMS DESIGN’S 
ATTENTION IMMEDIATELY. DO NOT
PROCEED WITH THE WORK IN THE AREA OF 
DISCREPANCIES UNTIL ALL
SUCH DISCREPANCIES ARE RESOLVED. IF THE 
CONTRACTOR CHOOSES
TO DO SO HE SHALL BE PRECEDING AT HIS 
OWN RISK.
12'' ABOVE
NATURAL 
GRADE
STUCC
O
F.F.
NATURAL 
GRADE LINE
OMISSIONS FROM THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS OR THE MIS-
DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK WHICH IS 
MANIFESTLY NECESSARY TO
CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS 
AND SPECIFICATIONS, OR
WHICH IS CUSTOMARILY REFORMED, 
SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE
CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING SUCH 
OMITTED OR MIS-DESCRIBED
DETAILS OF THE WORK AS IF FULLY AND 
COMPLETELY SET FORTH AND
DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS.
EXISTING RIGHT (NORTH-
EAST) ELEVATION
3
SC : 1/4" = 
1'-0"
SITE CONDITIONS: ALL CONTRACTORS AND 
SUB-CONTRACTORS SHALL
VERIFY DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS AT 
THE SITE PRIOR TO
COMMENCEMENT OF THEIR WORK. FAILURE 
TO DO SO SHALL NOT
RELEASE THEM FROM THE RESPONSIBILITY 
OF ESTIMATING THE WORK.
IF ANY VARIATION, DISCREPANCY OR 
OMISSION (BETWEEN THE INTENT
OF THESE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND THE 
EXISTING CONDITIONS ARE
FOUND, THE CONTRACTOR OR SUB-
CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY AMS
DESIGN IN WRITING AND OBTAIN WRITTEN 
RESOLUTION FROM AMS
DESIGN PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH ANY 
RELATED WORK.
40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLE ROOF
FIREPLA
CE
11'-3" TOP 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
SHEET 
TITLE:EXISTI
NG
ELEVAT
IONS
9' (GARAGE) 
PLATE HT.
ABOVE 
N.GRADE
8' PLATE 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
Electrical 
Meter
PROJEC
T ID:
----
STUCC
O
DAT
E:
JAN.20
22
1/4'' = 
1'
12'' ABOVE
NATURAL 
GRADE
STUCC
O
F.F.
SCAL
E:
Gas 
Meter
NATURAL 
GRADE LINE
DRAWN 
BY:
S.A.
SHEET 
NUMBER:
EXISTING LEFT 
(SOUTH0WEST) 
ELEVATION
4
RA-
02.01
SC : 1/4" = 
1'-0"

--- page 68 ---
AMS
DESI
GN
AMSD
ESIGN
4010 MOORPARK 
AVE#101,
SAN JOSE, CA 
95117
TELL: (415)254.1606
E-MAIL: 
OFFICE@AMSDESIGNLLP
.COM
Azadeh 
Masrour
47'-7"
THESE PLANS ARE INTENDED ONLY FOR THE 
ORIGINAL SITE FOR WHICH
THEY WERE DESIGNED AND ARE THE 
PROPERTY OF AMS DESIGN. THESE
PLANS ARE PROTECTED UNDER COPYRIGHT 
LAWS AND MAY NOT BE
REVISED OR REPRODUCED IN WHOLE OR 
IN PART WITHOUT THE
EXPRESSED WRITTEN CONSENT OF AMS 
DESIGN. ANY USE OF THESE
PLANS ON OTHER SITES IS PROHIBITED 
WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF AMS
DESIGN. ANY DISCREPANCY DISCOVERED ON 
THESE PLANS SHALL PRIOR
TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE WORK IN 
QUESTION. ALL WRITTEN
DIMENSIONS SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER 
SCALED DIMENSIONS.
30'-1"
17'-6"
0'-4"
0'-10"
21'-1"
6'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
10'-4"
3'-0"
37'-6"
W09-
6050
W13-
3050
W13-
3050
18'-8"
7'-2"
11'-8"
0'-7"
15'-1"
3'-0"
REF.
MAX. 
RISE=7 3/4"
NOSING=0.
75"
16'-3"
100 AMP. 
ELEC.
METER 
"ADU"
17'-0"
1'-1"
D07-
3080
3'-8"
2'-5"
3'-6"
8'-0"
18'-0"
1'-4"
PROJECT 
NAME:
13'-3"
15TH 
AVE.
RESIDE
NCE
1'-1"
0'-8"
D13-
2480
3080
125 15TH AVE.,
SAN MATEO, 
CA 94402
REVISION 
TABLE:
D04-
2480
1'-4"
D01-
2480
15'-7"
A
A-
03.01
A
A-
03.01
D09-
2680
A-
02.03
D
A-
02.03
D
REVISION 
DATE
JULY.202
2
BY DE
P
3'-6"
3'-6"
WA.
&
01
S.A. 
PLN
DR.
2'-4"
16'-0"
1'-4"
2'-6"
W07-
3050
W07-
3050
W03-
3030
W06-
3050
W05-
3050
W01-
4026
W02-
6050
0'-9"
0'-9"
0'-4"
0'-9"
3'-0"
9'-6"
3'-0"
1'-6"
3'-0"
1'-4"
3'-0"
5'-5"
3'-0"
17'-0"
12'-7"
5'-10"
2'-9"
12'-6"
ALL WORK DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS 
SHALL BE VERIFIED FOR
DIMENSION, GRADE, EXTENT AND 
COMPATIBILITY TO THE EXISTING SITE.
ANY DISCREPANCIES AND UNEXPECTED 
CONDITIONS THAT AFFECT OR
CHANGE THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THE 
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS SHALL
BE BROUGHT TO THE AMS DESIGN’S 
ATTENTION IMMEDIATELY. DO NOT
PROCEED WITH THE WORK IN THE AREA OF 
DISCREPANCIES UNTIL ALL
SUCH DISCREPANCIES ARE RESOLVED. IF THE 
CONTRACTOR CHOOSES
TO DO SO HE SHALL BE PRECEDING AT HIS 
OWN RISK.
50'-8"
0'-7"
0'-10"
4'-0"
5'-5"
2'-8"
6'-0"
3'-0"
OMISSIONS FROM THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS OR THE MIS-
DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK WHICH IS 
MANIFESTLY NECESSARY TO
CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS 
AND SPECIFICATIONS, OR
WHICH IS CUSTOMARILY REFORMED, 
SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE
CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING SUCH 
OMITTED OR MIS-DESCRIBED
DETAILS OF THE WORK AS IF FULLY AND 
COMPLETELY SET FORTH AND
DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS.
18'-3"
3'-4"
11'-8"
38'-8"
SITE CONDITIONS: ALL CONTRACTORS AND 
SUB-CONTRACTORS SHALL
VERIFY DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS AT 
THE SITE PRIOR TO
COMMENCEMENT OF THEIR WORK. FAILURE 
TO DO SO SHALL NOT
RELEASE THEM FROM THE RESPONSIBILITY 
OF ESTIMATING THE WORK.
IF ANY VARIATION, DISCREPANCY OR 
OMISSION (BETWEEN THE INTENT
OF THESE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND THE 
EXISTING CONDITIONS ARE
FOUND, THE CONTRACTOR OR SUB-
CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY AMS
DESIGN IN WRITING AND OBTAIN WRITTEN 
RESOLUTION FROM AMS
DESIGN PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH ANY 
RELATED WORK.
PROPOSED 1ST 
FLOOR PLAN
1
SC : 1/4" = 
1'-0"
SHEET 
TITLE:PROPOSED 
1ST
FLOOR 
PLAN (MAIN
HOUSE & 
ADU)
NOR
TH
PROJEC
T ID:
----
DAT
E:
JAN.20
22
1/4'' = 
1'
LEGE
ND:
SCAL
E:
DETACHED 
ADU
DRAWN 
BY:
S.A.
SHEET 
NUMBER:
NEW 
CONSTRUCTION 
WALL
EXISTING WALL 
TO STAY
A-
01.0
1
GRAPHIC 
SCALE : 1/4 INCH
= 1 
FEET
0 1 2 3 4 5
10
15
EXISTING WALL TO 
BE REMOVED

--- page 69 ---
13'-
1"
A'1
BUILDING 
NOTES:
17'-1"
10'-6"
AMS
A) BUILDING ELECTRIFICATION: ALL NEW RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (INCLUDING SINGLE FAMILY AND DUPLEX 
HOMES, MULTIFAMILY BUILDINGS AND ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS) ARE
REQUIRED TO BE CONSTRUCTED ALL-ELECTRIC.
A'
C'
B) ELECTRICAL VEHICLE READINESS: A COMPLETE CIRCUIT MINIMUM 40 AMP AND RECEPTACLE OUTLET FOR EV 
CHARGING SHALL BE PROVIDED.
C) SOLAR INSTALLATION: MINIMUM PV SOLAR SYSTEMS WILL BE PROVIDED ON THE PLAN PER 2019 CA 
ENERGY CODE, SUBCHAPTER 8 SECTION 150.1 ITEM 14, PHOTOVOLTAIC
REQUIREMENT
DESI
GN
AMSD
ESIGN
4010 MOORPARK 
AVE#101,
SAN JOSE, CA 
95117
TELL: 
(415)254.1606
E-MAIL: 
OFFICE@AMSDESIGNLLP
.COM
20'-5"
B'
Azadeh 
Masrour
11'-7"
6'-0"
2'-6"
6'-4"
0'-8"
2'-10"
2'-9"
3'-0"
2'-8"
THESE PLANS ARE INTENDED ONLY FOR THE 
ORIGINAL SITE FOR WHICH
THEY WERE DESIGNED AND ARE THE 
PROPERTY OF AMS DESIGN. THESE
PLANS ARE PROTECTED UNDER COPYRIGHT 
LAWS AND MAY NOT BE
REVISED OR REPRODUCED IN WHOLE OR 
IN PART WITHOUT THE
EXPRESSED WRITTEN CONSENT OF AMS 
DESIGN. ANY USE OF THESE
PLANS ON OTHER SITES IS PROHIBITED 
WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF AMS
DESIGN. ANY DISCREPANCY DISCOVERED ON 
THESE PLANS SHALL PRIOR
TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE WORK IN 
QUESTION. ALL WRITTEN
DIMENSIONS SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER 
SCALED DIMENSIONS.
13'-
3"
W21-
6050
W19-
3030
BUILT IN SEAT 24" 
ABOVE F.F.
4'-8"
9' CEILING 
HEIGHT
MASTER 
BDRM
13'-7" X 
18'-4"
A-
03.01
A-
03.01
B
B
11'-
11"
A1
MASTER 
BATH
5'-6" X 11'-
4"
3'-11"
D/W
29'-3"
20'-8"
1'-4"
A
F
2'-6"
WALK-IN 
CLOSET
PROJECT 
NAME:
5'-6" X 
6'-8"
13'-5"
15TH 
AVE.
RESIDE
NCE
7'-0"
UP
25'-4"
B
C
2'-9"
G
D19-
2880
125 15TH AVE.,
SAN MATEO, 
CA 94402
DN
WH
2'-6"
(N) 30" x 
30"
ATTIC 
ACCESS
REVISION 
TABLE:
13'-8"
16'-4"
LAUND
RY
5'-8" X 5'-
6"
D
9' CEILING 
HEIGHT
E
REVISION 
DATE
JULY.202
2
BY DE
P
HALL
5'-6" X 
13'-1"
BATH
5'-6" X 9'-
4"
H
0'-11"
01
S.A. 
PLN
I
STAIRW
ELL
3'-6" X 13'-
2"
DN
10'-7"
10'-1"
3'-8"
16'-4"
CLOSE
T
CLOSE
T
5'-10" X 
2'-4"
5'-6" X 
2'-4"
J
D17-
5080
D16-
4680
J1
3'-4"
D18-
2880
PROPOSED 1ST 
FLOOR PLAN
PROPOSED 2ND 
FLOOR PLAN
2
3
SC : 1/4" = 
1'-0"
SC : 1/4" = 
1'-0"
ALL WORK DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS 
SHALL BE VERIFIED FOR
DIMENSION, GRADE, EXTENT AND 
COMPATIBILITY TO THE EXISTING SITE.
ANY DISCREPANCIES AND UNEXPECTED 
CONDITIONS THAT AFFECT OR
CHANGE THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THE 
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS SHALL
BE BROUGHT TO THE AMS DESIGN’S 
ATTENTION IMMEDIATELY. DO NOT
PROCEED WITH THE WORK IN THE AREA OF 
DISCREPANCIES UNTIL ALL
SUCH DISCREPANCIES ARE RESOLVED. IF THE 
CONTRACTOR CHOOSES
TO DO SO HE SHALL BE PRECEDING AT HIS 
OWN RISK.
FLOOR AREA DIAGRAM 
(PROPOSED PLAN)
4'-8"
OMISSIONS FROM THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS OR THE MIS-
DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK WHICH IS 
MANIFESTLY NECESSARY TO
CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS 
AND SPECIFICATIONS, OR
WHICH IS CUSTOMARILY REFORMED, 
SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE
CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING SUCH 
OMITTED OR MIS-DESCRIBED
DETAILS OF THE WORK AS IF FULLY AND 
COMPLETELY SET FORTH AND
DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS.
SCALE: 
1/8" : 1'
9' CEILING 
HEIGHT
BEDROO
M
9'-6" X 
12'-0"
9' CEILING 
HEIGHT
BEDROO
M
FLOO
RS
SPAC
ES
SIZ
E
AREAS 
(SQF)
TOT
AL
9'-6" X 
13'-1"
SITE CONDITIONS: ALL CONTRACTORS AND 
SUB-CONTRACTORS SHALL
VERIFY DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS AT 
THE SITE PRIOR TO
COMMENCEMENT OF THEIR WORK. FAILURE 
TO DO SO SHALL NOT
RELEASE THEM FROM THE RESPONSIBILITY 
OF ESTIMATING THE WORK.
IF ANY VARIATION, DISCREPANCY OR 
OMISSION (BETWEEN THE INTENT
OF THESE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND THE 
EXISTING CONDITIONS ARE
FOUND, THE CONTRACTOR OR SUB-
CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY AMS
DESIGN IN WRITING AND OBTAIN WRITTEN 
RESOLUTION FROM AMS
DESIGN PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH ANY 
RELATED WORK.
W17-
5050
A
A1
B
20'-8" X 
15'-1"
11'-11" X 
1'-3"
13'-5'' X 
9'-8"
5'-5" X2'-
9"
31
2
15
W17-
5050
13
0
15
2ND FLOOR 
LIVING AREA
83
0
C
SHEET 
TITLE:
D
E
19'-7" 
X10'-1"
15'-4" X 
10'-7"
19
6
16
2
PROPOSED 
2ND FLOOR
PLAN (MAIN 
HOUSE) /
FLOOR AREA 
DIAGRAM
9'-11"
9'-11"
10'-6"
10'-6"
F
29'-3" X 
17'-4"
25'-4" 
X12'-4"
507
311
20'-5"
1ST FLOOR 
LIVING
AREA
G
140
8
223
8
H
I
18'-3" 
X16'-4"
21'-4" X 
13'-8"
29
8
29
2
PROJEC
T ID:
----
NOR
TH
PROPOSED 2ND 
FLOOR PLAN
DAT
E:
JAN.20
22
1
TOTAL 
LIVING AREA
SC : 1/4" = 
1'-0"
SCAL
E:
1/4'' = 1' - 
1/8'' = 1'
A'
17'-5" X 
17'-1"
13'-1" X 
1'-1"
20'-5" X 
13'-3"
18'-11" X 
10'-6"
16'-4" X 
3'-1"
17'-6" X 
1'-8"
29
7
14
1ST FLOOR 
LIVING
AREA
A'1
58
2
19
9
DRAWN 
BY:
S.A.
78
1
B'
27
1
199
49
SHEET 
NUMBER:
C'
GARA
GE
LEGE
ND:
A-
01.0
2
J
FRONT 
PATIO
GRAPHIC 
SCALE : 1/4 INCH
=1 FEET
77
J1
28
0 1 2 3 4 5
10
15
NEW 
CONSTRUCTION 
WALL

--- page 70 ---
AMS
DESI
GN
AMSD
ESIGN
25'-9" TOP 
HT.
ABOVE 
N.GRADE
NEW 40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLEROOF
4010 MOORPARK 
AVE#101,
SAN JOSE, CA 
95117
TELL: 
(415)254.1606
4
E-MAIL: 
OFFICE@AMSDESIGNLLP
.COM
12
4 4
9' PLATE 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
12
12
Azadeh 
Masrour
THESE PLANS ARE INTENDED ONLY FOR THE 
ORIGINAL SITE FOR WHICH
THEY WERE DESIGNED AND ARE THE 
PROPERTY OF AMS DESIGN. THESE
PLANS ARE PROTECTED UNDER COPYRIGHT 
LAWS AND MAY NOT BE
REVISED OR REPRODUCED IN WHOLE OR 
IN PART WITHOUT THE
EXPRESSED WRITTEN CONSENT OF AMS 
DESIGN. ANY USE OF THESE
PLANS ON OTHER SITES IS PROHIBITED 
WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF AMS
DESIGN. ANY DISCREPANCY DISCOVERED ON 
THESE PLANS SHALL PRIOR
TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE WORK IN 
QUESTION. ALL WRITTEN
DIMENSIONS SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER 
SCALED DIMENSIONS.
W17-
5050
W17-
5050
NEW 40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLE
ROOF
F.F. 2ND 
FLOOR
4
12
4
4
10' PLATE 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
12
12
5'-0"
5'-0"
5' FROM 
SETBACK
5' FROM 
SETBACK
LINE TO 
THE
EXTERIOR 
WALL
W04-
3050
W04-
3050
W04-
3050
W12-
3050
W11-
3050
W11-
3050
LINE TO 
THE
EXTERIOR 
WALL
D12-
3680
MAX. 
RISE=7 3/4"
16'' ABOVE
NATURAL 
GRADE
STUCC
O
F.F.
PROJECT 
NAME:
Gas 
Meter
NATURAL 
GRADE LINE
15TH 
AVE.
RESIDE
NCE
PROPOSED FRONT (SOUTH-
EAST) ELEVATION
125 15TH AVE.,
SAN MATEO, 
CA 94402
1
SC : 1/4" = 
1'-0"
REVISION 
TABLE:
REVISION 
DATE
JULY.202
2
BY DE
P
01
S.A. 
PLN
25'-9" TOP 
HT.
ABOVE 
N.GRADE
NEW 40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLEROOF
4
12
4
12
4
4
9' PLATE 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
12
12
ALL WORK DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS 
SHALL BE VERIFIED FOR
DIMENSION, GRADE, EXTENT AND 
COMPATIBILITY TO THE EXISTING SITE.
ANY DISCREPANCIES AND UNEXPECTED 
CONDITIONS THAT AFFECT OR
CHANGE THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THE 
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS SHALL
BE BROUGHT TO THE AMS DESIGN’S 
ATTENTION IMMEDIATELY. DO NOT
PROCEED WITH THE WORK IN THE AREA OF 
DISCREPANCIES UNTIL ALL
SUCH DISCREPANCIES ARE RESOLVED. IF THE 
CONTRACTOR CHOOSES
TO DO SO HE SHALL BE PRECEDING AT HIS 
OWN RISK.
NEW 40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLEROOF
W19-
3030
W21-
6050
OMISSIONS FROM THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS OR THE MIS-
DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK WHICH IS 
MANIFESTLY NECESSARY TO
CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS 
AND SPECIFICATIONS, OR
WHICH IS CUSTOMARILY REFORMED, 
SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE
CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING SUCH 
OMITTED OR MIS-DESCRIBED
DETAILS OF THE WORK AS IF FULLY AND 
COMPLETELY SET FORTH AND
DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS.
WOOD 
SIDING
F.F. 2ND 
FLOOR
4
4
12
12
SITE CONDITIONS: ALL CONTRACTORS AND 
SUB-CONTRACTORS SHALL
VERIFY DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS AT 
THE SITE PRIOR TO
COMMENCEMENT OF THEIR WORK. FAILURE 
TO DO SO SHALL NOT
RELEASE THEM FROM THE RESPONSIBILITY 
OF ESTIMATING THE WORK.
IF ANY VARIATION, DISCREPANCY OR 
OMISSION (BETWEEN THE INTENT
OF THESE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND THE 
EXISTING CONDITIONS ARE
FOUND, THE CONTRACTOR OR SUB-
CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY AMS
DESIGN IN WRITING AND OBTAIN WRITTEN 
RESOLUTION FROM AMS
DESIGN PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH ANY 
RELATED WORK.
10' PLATE 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
SHEET 
TITLE:
5'-0"
5'-9"
5' FROM 
SETBACK
LINE TO 
THE
EXTERIOR 
WALL
W08-
5046
5'-9'' FROM 
SETBACK
LINE TO 
THE
PROPOSE
D
ELEVATION
S (MAIN
HOUSE)
EXTERIOR 
WALL
D10-
14080
Electrical 
Meter
16'' ABOVE
NATURAL 
GRADE
MAX. 
RISE=7 3/4"
STUCC
O
F.F.
PROJEC
T ID:
----
Gas 
Meter
NATURAL 
GRADE LINE
DAT
E:
JAN.20
22
1/4'' = 
1'
SCAL
E:
PROPOSED REAR (NORTH-
WEST) ELEVATION
DRAWN 
BY:
S.A.
2
SHEET 
NUMBER:
SC : 1/4" = 
1'-0"
A-
02.0
1

--- page 71 ---
AMS
DAYLIGHT 
PLANE
DESI
GN
NEW 40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLEROO
F
AMSD
ESIGN
25'-9" TOP 
HT.
ABOVE 
N.GRADE
4010 MOORPARK 
AVE#101,
SAN JOSE, CA 
95117
TELL: 
(415)254.1606
E-MAIL: 
OFFICE@AMSDESIGNLLP
.COM
9' PLATE 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
Azadeh 
Masrour
W14-
2030
W14-
2030
W18-
2030
W18-
2030
W23-
2650
W24-
2650
THESE PLANS ARE INTENDED ONLY FOR THE 
ORIGINAL SITE FOR WHICH
THEY WERE DESIGNED AND ARE THE 
PROPERTY OF AMS DESIGN. THESE
PLANS ARE PROTECTED UNDER COPYRIGHT 
LAWS AND MAY NOT BE
REVISED OR REPRODUCED IN WHOLE OR 
IN PART WITHOUT THE
EXPRESSED WRITTEN CONSENT OF AMS 
DESIGN. ANY USE OF THESE
PLANS ON OTHER SITES IS PROHIBITED 
WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF AMS
DESIGN. ANY DISCREPANCY DISCOVERED ON 
THESE PLANS SHALL PRIOR
TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE WORK IN 
QUESTION. ALL WRITTEN
DIMENSIONS SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER 
SCALED DIMENSIONS.
NEW 40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLEROOF
F.F. 2ND 
FLOOR
4
12
10' PLATE 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
W13-
3050
W13-
3050
W09-
6050
STUCC
O
16'' ABOVE
NATURAL 
GRADE
MAX. 
RISE=7 3/4"
F.F.
PROJECT 
NAME:
Outdoor 
Compressor Unit
NATURAL 
GRADE LINE
15TH 
AVE.
RESIDE
NCE
PROPOSED RIGHT (NORTH-
EAST) ELEVATION
125 15TH AVE.,
SAN MATEO, 
CA 94402
1
SC : 1/4" = 
1'-0"
REVISION 
TABLE:
REVISION 
DATE
JULY.202
2
BY DE
P
DAYLIGHT 
PLANE
01
S.A. 
PLN
NEW 40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLEROOF
25'-9" TOP 
HT.
ABOVE 
N.GRADE
9' PLATE 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
ALL WORK DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS 
SHALL BE VERIFIED FOR
DIMENSION, GRADE, EXTENT AND 
COMPATIBILITY TO THE EXISTING SITE.
ANY DISCREPANCIES AND UNEXPECTED 
CONDITIONS THAT AFFECT OR
CHANGE THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THE 
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS SHALL
BE BROUGHT TO THE AMS DESIGN’S 
ATTENTION IMMEDIATELY. DO NOT
PROCEED WITH THE WORK IN THE AREA OF 
DISCREPANCIES UNTIL ALL
SUCH DISCREPANCIES ARE RESOLVED. IF THE 
CONTRACTOR CHOOSES
TO DO SO HE SHALL BE PRECEDING AT HIS 
OWN RISK.
W20-
2650
W20-
2650
W24-
2650
W23-
2650
W22-
2660
W22-
2660
W22-
2660
NEW 40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLEROOF
OMISSIONS FROM THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS OR THE MIS-
DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK WHICH IS 
MANIFESTLY NECESSARY TO
CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS 
AND SPECIFICATIONS, OR
WHICH IS CUSTOMARILY REFORMED, 
SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE
CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING SUCH 
OMITTED OR MIS-DESCRIBED
DETAILS OF THE WORK AS IF FULLY AND 
COMPLETELY SET FORTH AND
DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS.
NEW 40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLEROOF
F.F. 2ND 
FLOOR
4
12
SITE CONDITIONS: ALL CONTRACTORS AND 
SUB-CONTRACTORS SHALL
VERIFY DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS AT 
THE SITE PRIOR TO
COMMENCEMENT OF THEIR WORK. FAILURE 
TO DO SO SHALL NOT
RELEASE THEM FROM THE RESPONSIBILITY 
OF ESTIMATING THE WORK.
IF ANY VARIATION, DISCREPANCY OR 
OMISSION (BETWEEN THE INTENT
OF THESE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND THE 
EXISTING CONDITIONS ARE
FOUND, THE CONTRACTOR OR SUB-
CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY AMS
DESIGN IN WRITING AND OBTAIN WRITTEN 
RESOLUTION FROM AMS
DESIGN PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH ANY 
RELATED WORK.
10' PLATE 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
W03-
3030
SHEET 
TITLE:
W07-
3050
W07-
3050
W06-
3050
W05-
3050
PROPOSE
D
ELEVATION
S (MAIN
HOUSE)
STUCC
O
W02-
6050
Electrical 
Meter
MAX. 
RISE=7 3/4"
16'' ABOVE
NATURAL 
GRADE
F.F.
Outdoor Compressor Unit Outdoor 
Compressor Unit
Outdoor 
Compressor Unit
Gas 
Meter
PROJEC
T ID:
----
NATURAL 
GRADE LINE
DAT
E:
JAN.20
22
1/4'' = 
1'
SCAL
E:
PROPOSED LEFT (SOUTH-
WEST) ELEVATION
DRAWN 
BY:
S.A.
2
SHEET 
NUMBER:
SC : 1/4" = 
1'-0"
A-
02.0
2

--- page 72 ---
13'-0" TOP 
HT.
13'-0" TOP 
HT. AMS
ABOVE 
N.GRADE
ABOVE 
N.GRADE
NEW 40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLEROOF
NEW 40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLEROOF
3
3
3
3
12
12
12
12
ATTI
C
9'-0'' PLATE 
HT.
9'-0'' PLATE 
HT.
ABOVE 
N.GRADE
ABOVE 
N.GRADE
GREAT 
ROOM
DESI
GN
Electrical 
Meter
AMSD
ESIGN
W10-
3050
W10-
3050
W10-
3050
GARA
GE
D08-
9080
D11-
3080
D03-
2880
4010 MOORPARK 
AVE#101,
SAN JOSE, CA 
95117
TELL: (415)254.1606
E-MAIL: 
OFFICE@AMSDESIGNLLP
.COM
STUCC
O
NATURAL 
GRADE LINE
NATURAL 
GRADE LINE
Azadeh 
Masrour
THESE PLANS ARE INTENDED ONLY FOR THE 
ORIGINAL SITE FOR WHICH
THEY WERE DESIGNED AND ARE THE 
PROPERTY OF AMS DESIGN. THESE
PLANS ARE PROTECTED UNDER COPYRIGHT 
LAWS AND MAY NOT BE
REVISED OR REPRODUCED IN WHOLE OR 
IN PART WITHOUT THE
EXPRESSED WRITTEN CONSENT OF AMS 
DESIGN. ANY USE OF THESE
PLANS ON OTHER SITES IS PROHIBITED 
WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF AMS
DESIGN. ANY DISCREPANCY DISCOVERED ON 
THESE PLANS SHALL PRIOR
TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE WORK IN 
QUESTION. ALL WRITTEN
DIMENSIONS SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER 
SCALED DIMENSIONS.
PROPOSED FRONT (NORTH-
WEST) ELEVATION
C-C CROSS 
SECTION
1
5
SC : 1/4" = 
1'-0"
SC : 1/4" = 
1'-0"
NEW 40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLEROOF
NEW 40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLEROOF
13'-0" TOP 
HT.
ABOVE 
N.GRADE
12'-4" TOP 
HT.
ABOVE 
N.GRADE
3
3
12
12
ATTI
C
ATTI
C
3
3
9'-0'' PLATE 
HT.
9'-0'' PLATE 
HT.
12
12
ABOVE 
N.GRADE
ABOVE 
N.GRADE
BATHRO
OM
Tankless Water 
Heater
Electrical 
Meter
BEDRO
OM
LAUND
RY
GREAT 
ROOM
W02-
6050
STUCC
O
PROJECT 
NAME:
Outdoor 
Compressor Unit
Outdoor 
Compressor Unit
15TH 
AVE.
NATURAL 
GRADE LINE
NATURAL 
GRADE LINE RESIDE
NCE
125 15TH AVE.,
SAN MATEO, 
CA 94402
PROPOSED REAR (SOUTH-
EAST) ELEVATION
D-D CROSS 
SECTION
2
6
SC : 1/4" = 
1'-0"
SC : 1/4" = 
1'-0"
REVISION 
TABLE:
NEW 40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLEROOF
REVISION 
DATE
JULY.202
2
BY DE
P
01
S.A. 
PLN
13'-0" TOP 
HT.
ABOVE 
N.GRADE
SMOOTH 
STUCCO
SHINGLE 
ROOFING
9'-0'' PLATE 
HT.
ABOVE 
N.GRADE
Electrical 
Meter
STUCC
O
D07-
3080
ALL WORK DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS 
SHALL BE VERIFIED FOR
DIMENSION, GRADE, EXTENT AND 
COMPATIBILITY TO THE EXISTING SITE.
ANY DISCREPANCIES AND UNEXPECTED 
CONDITIONS THAT AFFECT OR
CHANGE THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THE 
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS SHALL
BE BROUGHT TO THE AMS DESIGN’S 
ATTENTION IMMEDIATELY. DO NOT
PROCEED WITH THE WORK IN THE AREA OF 
DISCREPANCIES UNTIL ALL
SUCH DISCREPANCIES ARE RESOLVED. IF THE 
CONTRACTOR CHOOSES
TO DO SO HE SHALL BE PRECEDING AT HIS 
OWN RISK.
Outdoor 
Compressor Unit
NATURAL 
GRADE LINE
OMISSIONS FROM THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS OR THE MIS-
DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK WHICH IS 
MANIFESTLY NECESSARY TO
CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS 
AND SPECIFICATIONS, OR
WHICH IS CUSTOMARILY REFORMED, 
SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE
CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING SUCH 
OMITTED OR MIS-DESCRIBED
DETAILS OF THE WORK AS IF FULLY AND 
COMPLETELY SET FORTH AND
DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS.
PROPOSED RIGHT (NORTH-
EAST) ELEVATION
3
SITE CONDITIONS: ALL CONTRACTORS AND 
SUB-CONTRACTORS SHALL
VERIFY DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS AT 
THE SITE PRIOR TO
COMMENCEMENT OF THEIR WORK. FAILURE 
TO DO SO SHALL NOT
RELEASE THEM FROM THE RESPONSIBILITY 
OF ESTIMATING THE WORK.
IF ANY VARIATION, DISCREPANCY OR 
OMISSION (BETWEEN THE INTENT
OF THESE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND THE 
EXISTING CONDITIONS ARE
FOUND, THE CONTRACTOR OR SUB-
CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY AMS
DESIGN IN WRITING AND OBTAIN WRITTEN 
RESOLUTION FROM AMS
DESIGN PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH ANY 
RELATED WORK.
SC : 1/4" = 
1'-0"
NEW 40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLEROOF
EXTERIOR 
MATERIAL 
SCHEDULE
13'-0" TOP 
HT.
SHEET 
TITLE:
ABOVE 
N.GRADE
PROPO
SED
ELEVATIONS & 
SECTIONS
(ADU) / 
EXTERIOR
TITL
E
TY
PE
INF
O
9'-0'' PLATE 
HT.
ABOVE 
N.GRADE
MATERIAL 
SCHEDULE
Tankless Water 
Heater
ROO
F
SIDI
NG
W07-
3050
SHINGLE 
ROOFING
STUCCO
DARK 
CHARCOA
L
SMOOTH/ 
WHITE
W01-
4026
PROJEC
T ID:
----
W02-
6050
STUCC
O
DAT
E:
JAN.20
22
1/4'' = 
1'
SIDI
NG
WO
OD
CLOP
AY
BRO
WN
SCAL
E:
Outdoor 
Compressor Unit
GARAGE 
DOOR
DOOR
DARK 
GREY
NATURAL 
GRADE LINE
DRAWN 
BY:
S.A.
FEATHER RIVER 
DOORS
MILGARD
DARK GRAY/ 
GLASS
TUSCANY / 
DARK GREY
SHEET 
NUMBER:
WIND
OWS
PROPOSED LEFT (SOUTH-
WEST) ELEVATION
A-
02.0
3
4
SC : 1/4" = 
1'-0"

--- page 73 ---
AMS
NEW 40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLEROOF
DESI
GN
25'-9" TOP 
HT.
AMSD
ESIGN
ABOVE 
N.GRADE
4010 MOORPARK 
AVE#101,
SAN JOSE, CA 
95117
TELL: (415)254.1606
E-MAIL: 
OFFICE@AMSDESIGNLLP
.COM
9' PLATE 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
MASTER 
BEDROOM
STAIRW
ELL
CLOS
ET
BEDRO
OM
Azadeh 
Masrour
BUILT IN SEAT 24" 
ABOVE F.F.
THESE PLANS ARE INTENDED ONLY FOR THE 
ORIGINAL SITE FOR WHICH
THEY WERE DESIGNED AND ARE THE 
PROPERTY OF AMS DESIGN. THESE
PLANS ARE PROTECTED UNDER COPYRIGHT 
LAWS AND MAY NOT BE
REVISED OR REPRODUCED IN WHOLE OR 
IN PART WITHOUT THE
EXPRESSED WRITTEN CONSENT OF AMS 
DESIGN. ANY USE OF THESE
PLANS ON OTHER SITES IS PROHIBITED 
WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF AMS
DESIGN. ANY DISCREPANCY DISCOVERED ON 
THESE PLANS SHALL PRIOR
TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE WORK IN 
QUESTION. ALL WRITTEN
DIMENSIONS SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER 
SCALED DIMENSIONS.
HANDRAIL IS 
REQUIRED ON THE
OPEN SIDE OF THE 
STAIRWAY
AT A HEIGHT OF 34 
INCHES TO
38 INCHES AND 
SHALL HAVE
INTERMEDIATE 
RAILS SPACED
D21-
2480
D15-
2480
SUCH 
THAT
A SPHERE 
4-3/8
INCHES IN 
DIAMETER CANNOT
PASS THROUGH. CRC 
R312.2 EX.
#2 AND R312.3 EX. #2
F.F. 2ND 
FLOOR
10' PLATE 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
KITCHEN & 
FAMILY
BAT
H
CLOS
ET
BEDRO
OM
D04-
2480
THE 
MAXIMUM 
RISER 
HEIGHT 
CAN 
BE 
7.75-
INCHESMINIMUM TREAD DEPTH 
CAN BE 10-INCHES.
FOR ANY TREAD DEPTH LESS 
THAN 11-INCHES,
NOSING OF NOT LESS THAN 
0.75-INCHES, BUT NOT
MORE THAN 1.25-INCHES SHALL BE 
PROVIDED.
A
MAX. 
RISE=7 3/4"
16'' ABOVE
NATURAL 
GRADE
F.F.
PROJECT 
NAME:
NATURAL 
GRADE LINE
CRAWL 
SPACE
15TH 
AVE.
RESIDE
NCE
ANY ENCLOSED, ACCESSIBLE SPACE 
UNDER THE STAIRS
SHALL HAVE ½-INCH GYPSUM BOARD 
ON THE ENCLOSED
SIDE OF THE WALLS, UNDER-
STAIR SURFACE, AND
SOFFITS. [CRC §R302.7]
125 15TH 
AVE.,
A-A CROSS 
SECTION
SAN MATEO, 
CA 94402
1
SC : 1/4" = 
1'-0"
REVISION 
TABLE:
REVISION 
DATE
JULY.202
2
BY DE
P
01
S.A. 
PLN
NEW 40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLEROOF
25'-9" TOP 
HT.
ABOVE 
N.GRADE
4
12
4
ATTI
C
12
9' PLATE 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
MASTER 
BATH
MASTER 
BEDROOM
ALL WORK DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS 
SHALL BE VERIFIED FOR
DIMENSION, GRADE, EXTENT AND 
COMPATIBILITY TO THE EXISTING SITE.
ANY DISCREPANCIES AND UNEXPECTED 
CONDITIONS THAT AFFECT OR
CHANGE THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THE 
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS SHALL
BE BROUGHT TO THE AMS DESIGN’S 
ATTENTION IMMEDIATELY. DO NOT
PROCEED WITH THE WORK IN THE AREA OF 
DISCREPANCIES UNTIL ALL
SUCH DISCREPANCIES ARE RESOLVED. IF THE 
CONTRACTOR CHOOSES
TO DO SO HE SHALL BE PRECEDING AT HIS 
OWN RISK.
D19-
2880
NEW 40 YR. COMP. 
SHINGLEROOF
F.F. 2ND 
FLOOR
4
4
OMISSIONS FROM THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS OR THE MIS-
DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK WHICH IS 
MANIFESTLY NECESSARY TO
CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS 
AND SPECIFICATIONS, OR
WHICH IS CUSTOMARILY REFORMED, 
SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE
CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING SUCH 
OMITTED OR MIS-DESCRIBED
DETAILS OF THE WORK AS IF FULLY AND 
COMPLETELY SET FORTH AND
DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS.
12
12
10' PLATE 
HT.
ABOVE 
F.F.
KITCH
EN
FAMIL
Y
SITE CONDITIONS: ALL CONTRACTORS AND 
SUB-CONTRACTORS SHALL
VERIFY DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS AT 
THE SITE PRIOR TO
COMMENCEMENT OF THEIR WORK. FAILURE 
TO DO SO SHALL NOT
RELEASE THEM FROM THE RESPONSIBILITY 
OF ESTIMATING THE WORK.
IF ANY VARIATION, DISCREPANCY OR 
OMISSION (BETWEEN THE INTENT
OF THESE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND THE 
EXISTING CONDITIONS ARE
FOUND, THE CONTRACTOR OR SUB-
CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY AMS
DESIGN IN WRITING AND OBTAIN WRITTEN 
RESOLUTION FROM AMS
DESIGN PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH ANY 
RELATED WORK.
D12-
3680
Electrical 
Meter
HANDRAIL IS REQUIRED ON THE 
OPEN SIDE OF THE
SHEET 
TITLE:
STAIRWAY AT A HEIGHT OF 34 
INCHES TO 38 INCHES
AND SHALL HAVE INTERMEDIATE 
RAILS SPACED SUCH
THAT A SPHERE 4-3/8 INCHES IN 
DIAMETER CANNOT
PASS THROUGH. CRC R312.2 EX. 
#2 AND R312.3 EX.
#2
PROPOS
ED
SECTIONS 
(MAIN
HOUSE)
16'' ABOVE
NATURAL 
GRADE
F.F.
Gas 
Meter
NATURAL 
GRADE LINE
CRAWL 
SPACE
PROJEC
T ID:
----
DAT
E:
JAN.20
22
1/4'' = 
1'
SCAL
E:
B-B CROSS 
SECTION
2
DRAWN 
BY:
S.A.
SC : 1/4" = 
1'-0"
SHEET 
NUMBER:A-
03.0
1

--- page 74 ---
ATT 6 – PROJECT DATA SHEET
NAME: 125 15th Ave.,
SFDDR + SUP
PA: 2021-049
ADDRESS: 125 15th Ave
LOT AREA:  5,000 sf
ZONING: R1-C
APN: 034-294-120
FLOOR AREA
EXISTING SF
House:
1,250
Garage (detached):
328
Front Porch:
0
ADU: 
0
SUBTOTAL: 
1,566
TOTAL (minus exemptions):
PROPOSED SF
2,238
199
771
5822
3,096
2,437
MAXIMUM ALLOWED
2,500
F.A.R.: = 0.50 * area < 6,000 sf
0.49
0.50
BUILDING HEIGHT:
Height to plate (24 ft. max):
Height to peak (32 ft. max):
Daylight Plane:
PROPOSED
21 ft. 8 in.
25 ft. 9 in.
Compliant
24 ft.
32 ft.
STORIES: 1 (existing)
2
N/A
UNITS: 1 (existing)
1 + 1 ADU
1 SFD + 1 ADU + 1 JADU
SETBACKS:
EXISTING (SFD)
Front: 
17.7 ft.
Front (garage): 
103 ft.
Left Side: 
4.3 ft.
Right Side: 
4.8 ft.
Rear: 
53.5 ft.
PROPOSED (SFD)
16 ft. 7 in.
102 ft. 4 in.
5 ft.
5 ft.
57 ft. 5 in.
MINIMUM REQUIRED (SFD)
15 ft.
20 ft.
5 ft.
5 ft.
15 ft.
PARKING
EXISTING
Garage: 
2
PROPOSED
1
MINIMUM REQUIRED
02
LANDSCAPING:
Removal of Protected Trees 
and other major 
landscaping:
Project proposes removing 1 Protected Tree (Coast Live Oak) to 
construct the ADU.
1) SMMC 27.040.200 exempts the first 100 sq. ft. of a covered front porch for single-family dwellings.
2) SMMC 27.19.050 allows an attached or detached ADU up to 800 sq. ft. to be exempt from floor area 
ratio limitations. Replacement off-street parking is not required when a garage is converted to an 
ADU.

--- page 75 ---
Tree Inventory, Assessment,
And
Protection Report
125 15th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94402
Prepared for:
Mike Danao
September 29, 2022
Prepared By:
Richard Gessner
ASCA - Registered Consulting Arborist ® #496 
ISA - Board Certified Master Arborist®  WE-4341B
© Copyright Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC, 2022

--- page 76 ---
125 15th Avenue
Tree Inventory, Assessment,  
and Protection Report
September 29, 2022
Table of Contents
Summary
 
...............................................................................................................1
Introduction
 
...........................................................................................................1
Background 
 
............................................................................................................1
Assignment and Limits 
 
...........................................................................................1
Purpose and Use 
 
....................................................................................................1
Observations
 
.........................................................................................................2
Tree Inventory 
 
.........................................................................................................2
Discussion
 
.............................................................................................................3
Condition Rating 
 
.....................................................................................................3
Expected Impact Level 
 
...........................................................................................4
Tree Protection 
 
.......................................................................................................5
Conclusion
 
............................................................................................................5
Recommendations
 
...............................................................................................6
Bibliography
 
..........................................................................................................7
Appendix A: Tree Locations and Protection
 
.......................................................8
Appendix B: Tree Protection Guidelines
 
.............................................................9
B1: Plan Sheet Detail S-X 
 
.......................................................................................9
B2: Type II Tree Protection 
 
....................................................................................10
B3: Plan Sheet Detail S-Y 
 
.....................................................................................11
Pre-Construction Meeting with the Project Arborist 
 
.............................................12
Tree Protection Zones and Fencing 
 
......................................................................12
Tree Protection Signs 
 
...........................................................................................12
Monitoring 
 
............................................................................................................13
Restrictions Within the Tree Protection Zone 
 
.......................................................13
Root Pruning 
 
.........................................................................................................13
Boring or Tunneling 
 
...............................................................................................13
Timing 
 
...................................................................................................................13
Appendix C: Tree Protection Signs
 
...................................................................14
C1: English 
 
...........................................................................................................14
C2: Spanish 
 
..........................................................................................................15
Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC - P.O Box 1010, Felton, CA 95018
831.331.8982 - rick@monarcharborist.com

--- page 77 ---
125 15th Avenue
Tree Inventory, Assessment,  
and Protection Report
September 29, 2022
Qualifications, Assumptions, and Limiting Conditions
 
...................................16
Certification of Performance.............................................................................17
Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC - P.O Box 1010, Felton, CA 95018
831.331.8982 - rick@monarcharborist.com

--- page 78 ---
125 15th Avenue
Tree Inventory, Assessment,  
and Protection Report
September 29, 2022
Summary  
The plans are to demolish the existing house and construct a new residence and detached 
accessory dwelling unit. The inventory contains four trees comprised of three different species 
with one “Heritage Tree” and two “Street Trees”. The lemon (Citrus limon) #3 and “Heritage 
Tree” coast live oak (Quercus agrifolia) #4 will be highly impacted by the proposed plans and 
caused to be removed. The two “Street Trees” will not be affected. The applicant is requesting 
the removal of Heritage Tree #4 due to being located in the footprint of the proposed ADU.
Introduction 
Background
Mike Danao asked me to assess the site, trees, and proposed footprint plan, and to provide a 
report with my findings and recommendations to help satisfy planning requirements.
Assignment and Limits
• Provide an arborist’s report that includes an assessment of the trees within the project area and 
on the adjacent sites.  The assessment is to include the species, size (trunk diameter), condition 
(health, structure, and form), and suitability for preservation ratings.
• Provide tree protection specifications, guidelines, and expected impact ratings for those 
affected by the project. 
• The information in this report is limited to the condition of the trees and site during my 
inspection on September 14, 2022.  No tree risk assessments were performed.
• Plans reviewed include the following: Site Plan A-00.01 dated July 22, 2022, provided by 
AMS Design, and Grading and Drainage Plan C1 dated July 18, 2022 provide by Osuna 
Engineering.
Purpose and Use
The report is intended to identify all the trees within the plan area that could be affected by a 
project. The report is to be used by the property owners, owner’s agents, and the City of San 
Mateo as a reference for existing tree and site conditions to help satisfy planning requirements. 
Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC - P.O Box 1010, Felton, CA 95018
831.331.8982 - rick@monarcharborist.com
 of 
1
17

--- page 79 ---
125 15th Avenue
Tree Inventory, Assessment,  
and Protection Report
September 29, 2022
Observations 
Tree Inventory
The inventory contains all the trees six inches in diameter and greater measured at fifty-four 
inches above grade. The City of San Mateo ordinance Heritage Tree means any of the following:
1.
Any oak (Quercus spp.) tree with a trunk that has a diameter of ten inches or more (31.4 
inches in circumference) measured at 54 inches above natural grade;
2.
Any other tree with a trunk diameter of fifteen inches (47.1 inches in circumference) or 
more, measured at 54 inches above natural grade.
The inventory contains four trees comprised of three different species with one “Heritage Tree” 
and two “Street Trees” (Table 1).

Table 1: Tree Inventory
Tree Species
I.D. #
Trunk Diameter (in.)
Status
elm (Ulmus procera)
1
2
Street Tree
elm (Ulmus procera)
2
3
Street Tree
lemon (Citrus limon)
3
8, 6
Not Heritage
coast live oak (Quercus agrifolia)
4
21
Heritage
Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC - P.O Box 1010, Felton, CA 95018
831.331.8982 - rick@monarcharborist.com
 of 
2
17
#1#2
#3
#4

--- page 80 ---
125 15th Avenue
Tree Inventory, Assessment,  
and Protection Report
September 29, 2022
Discussion
Condition Rating
A tree’s condition is a determination of its overall health, structure, and form (ISA 2018).  The 
assessment considered all three characteristics for a combined condition rating. 
• 100% - Exceptional = Good health and structure with significant size, location or quality.
• 61-80% - Good = Normal vigor, well-developed structure, function and aesthetics not 
compromised with good longevity for the site.
• 41-60 % - Fair = Reduced vigor, damage, dieback, or pest problems, at least one significant 
structural problem or multiple moderate defects requiring treatment.  Major asymmetry or 
deviation from the species normal habit, function and aesthetics compromised.
• 21-40% - Poor = Unhealthy and declining appearance with poor vigor, abnormal foliar color, 
size or density with potential irreversible decline.  One serious structural defect or multiple 
significant defects that cannot be corrected and failure may occur at any time.  Significant 
asymmetry and compromised aesthetics and intended use.
• 6-20% - Very Poor = Poor vigor and dying with little foliage in irreversible decline.  Severe 
defects with the likelihood of failure being probable or imminent.  Aesthetically poor with 
little or no function in the landscape. 
• 0-5% - Dead/Unstable = Dead or imminently ready to fail.
One Street Tree is in fair condition and one good while the lemon is in very poor shape. The 
coast live oak Heritage Tree is in fair overall condition with poor form and fair structure. The 
tree appears to have robust vigor or health but is overall form is poor with a large hole in the 
upper crown.
Table 2: Tree Condition Ratings
Tree Species
I.D. #
Trunk 
Diameter (in.)
Status
Condition 
elm (Ulmus procera)
1
2
Street Tree
Fair
elm (Ulmus procera)
2
3
Street Tree
Good
lemon (Citrus limon)
3
8, 6
Not Heritage
Very Poor
coast live oak (Quercus agrifolia)
4
21
Heritage
Fair
Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC - P.O Box 1010, Felton, CA 95018
831.331.8982 - rick@monarcharborist.com
 of 
3
17

--- page 81 ---
125 15th Avenue
Tree Inventory, Assessment,  
and Protection Report
September 29, 2022
Expected Impact Level
Impact level defines how a tree may be affected by construction activity and is described as low, 
moderate, or high.  The following scale defines the impact rating:
• Low = The construction activity will have little influence on the tree.
• Moderate = The construction may cause future health or structural problems, and steps must be 
taken to protect the tree to reduce future problems.
• High = Tree structure and health will be compromised and removal is recommended, or other 
actions must be taken for the tree to remain.  The tree is located in the building envelope.
The lemon #3 and “Heritage Tree” coast live oak #4 will be highly impacted by the proposed 
plans (Table 4). The two Street Trees will not be affected.
Table 3: Expected Impact
Tree Species
I.D. #
Trunk Diameter 
(in.)
Status
Expected Impact
elm (Ulmus procera)
1
2
Street Tree
Low
elm (Ulmus procera)
2
3
Street Tree
Low
lemon (Citrus limon)
3
8, 6
Not Heritage
High
coast live oak (Quercus 
agrifolia)
4
21
Heritage
High
Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC - P.O Box 1010, Felton, CA 95018
831.331.8982 - rick@monarcharborist.com
 of 
4
17

--- page 82 ---
125 15th Avenue
Tree Inventory, Assessment,  
and Protection Report
September 29, 2022
Tree Protection
Tree protection focuses on protecting trees from damage to the roots, trunk, or scaffold branches 
from heavy equipment.  The tree protection zone (TPZ) is the defined area in which certain 
activities are prohibited to minimize potential injury to the tree.  The TPZ can be determined by a 
formula based on species tolerance, tree age, and diameter at breast height (DBH) (Matheny, N. 
and Clark, J. 1998) (Fite, K, and Smiley, E. T., 2016) or as the drip line in some instances.
The plans indicate the two “Street Trees” will be retained and the remaining trees removed 
(Table 5). The applicant is requesting the removal of Heritage Tree #4 due to being located in the 
footprint of the proposed ADU. 
Conclusion  
The plans are to demolish the existing house and construct a new residence and detached 
accessory dwelling unit. The inventory contains four trees comprised of three different species 
with one “Heritage Tree” and two “Street Trees”. One “Street Tree” is in fair condition and one 
good while the lemon#3 is in very poor shape. The coast live oak “Heritage Tree” is in fair 
overall condition with poor form and fair structure. The tree appears to have robust vigor or 
health but its overall form is poor with a large hole in the upper crown. The lemon #3 and 
“Heritage Tree” coast live oak #4 will be highly impacted by the proposed plans and caused to be 
removed. The two “Street Trees” will not be affected. The plans indicate the two “Street Trees” 
will be retained and the remaining trees removed. The applicant is requesting the removal of 
Heritage Tree #4 due to being located in the footprint of the proposed ADU.
Table 4: Tree Protection Offsets
Tree Species
I.D. #
Trunk Diameter 
(in.)
Status
Tree Protection 
elm (Ulmus procera)
1
2
Street Tree
Protect Park Strip/Type 
II Protection Scheme
elm (Ulmus procera)
2
3
Street Tree
Protect Park Strip/Type 
II Protection Scheme
lemon (Citrus limon)
3
8, 6
Not Heritage
Remove
coast live oak (Quercus 
agrifolia)
4
21
Heritage
Remove
Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC - P.O Box 1010, Felton, CA 95018
831.331.8982 - rick@monarcharborist.com
 of 
5
17

--- page 83 ---
125 15th Avenue
Tree Inventory, Assessment,  
and Protection Report
September 29, 2022
Recommendations 
1.
Place tree protection fence locations on the plans to be submitted.
2.
Obtain all required permits for the removal and replacement of the coast live oak or provide 
an alternative design allowing for its preservation.
3.
Place Type II tree protection around the two elms in the park strip (Appendix A).
4.
Provide supplemental watering to the trees where possible or maintain current water 
schemes.
5.
All tree maintenance and care shall be performed by a qualified arborist with a C-61/D-49 
California Contractors License. Tree maintenance and care shall be specified in writing 
according to American National Standard for Tree Care Operations: Tree, Shrub and Other 
Woody Plant Management: Standard Practices parts 1 through 10 and adhere to ANSI 
Z133.1 safety standards and local regulations. All maintenance is to be performed according 
to ISA Best Management Practices.
6.
Refer to Appendix A for general tree protection guidelines including recommendations for 
arborist assistance while working under trees, trenching, or excavation within a trees drip 
line or designated TPZ/CRZ.
7.
Provide a copy of this report to all contractors and project managers, including the architect, 
civil engineer, and landscape designer or architect. It is the responsibility of the owner to 
ensure all parties are familiar with this document.
8.
Arrange a pre-construction meeting with the project arborist or landscape architect to verify 
tree protection is in place, with the correct materials, and at the proper distances. 
9.
Monitor the health and structure of all trees for any changes in condition.
Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC - P.O Box 1010, Felton, CA 95018
831.331.8982 - rick@monarcharborist.com
 of 
6
17

--- page 84 ---
125 15th Avenue
Tree Inventory, Assessment,  
and Protection Report
September 29, 2022
Bibliography 
American National Standard for Tree Care Operations: Tree, Shrub and Other Woody Plant 	
	
	
Management : Standard Practices (Management of Trees and Shrubs During Site 	 	
	
	
Planning, Site Development, and Construction)(Part 5). Londonderry, NH: Secretariat, 	
	
	
Tree Care Industry Association, 2019. Print.
Fite, Kelby, and Edgar Thomas. Smiley. Managing trees during construction, second edition. 
Champaign, IL: International Society of Arboriculture, 2016.
ISA. Guide For Plant Appraisal, Tenth Edition. Savoy, IL: International Society of 	
	
	
	
Arboriculture, 2019. Print.
Matheny, Nelda P., Clark, James R. Trees and development: A technical guide to preservation of 		
	
trees during land development. Bedminster, PA: International Society of 	 	
	
	
	
Arboriculture1998.
Smiley, E, Matheny, N, Lilly, S, ISA. Best Management Practices: Tree Risk Assessment: 
International Society of Arboriculture, 2017. Print 
Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC - P.O Box 1010, Felton, CA 95018
831.331.8982 - rick@monarcharborist.com
 of 
7
17

--- page 85 ---
125 15th Avenue
Tree Inventory, Assessment,  
and Protection Report
September 29, 2022
Appendix A: Tree Locations and Protection
 
Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC - P.O Box 1010, Felton, CA 95018
831.331.8982 - rick@monarcharborist.com
 of 
8
17
SC : 1/8" = 1'-0"
2
3 : 12
3 : 12
3 : 12
3 : 12
4 : 12
4 : 12
E / L
w / W
w / W
E / L
E / L
E / L
E / L
E / L
E / L
E / L
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
4 : 12
4 : 12
4 : 12
4 : 12
4 : 12
4 : 12
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
12'-4"
2'-11"
4'
22'-9"
7'
3'
16'-7"
5'-9"
5'
19'-8"
15'-7"
9'-5"
0'-6"
2'-0"
30'-0"
20'-7"
18'-1"
9'-8"
9'-8"
22'
20'-11"
57'-5"
5'
1'-4"
1'-4"
1'-4"
24'
10'-6"
20'
4'
1'-4"
15TH AVE,
"EX" SIDE WALK
"EX" CURB SIDE
CENTERLINE OF 15TH AVE,
40.00'
40.00'
100 AMP. ELEC.
METER "ADU"
GAS METER
200 AMP. 
ELEC. METER
HVAC (ADU)
AC UNIT (MAIN HOUSE)
125.00'
125.00'
WALK WAY
WATER
METER
PRIVATE WAY
2ND FLOOR
2ND FLOOR
2ND FLOOR
2ND FLOOR
2ND FLOOR
COVERED PATIO
COVERED PATIO
DIMENSION OF
BASED O
WIN.
WIN.
WIN.
WIN.
WIN.
WIN.
WIN.
WIN.
WIN.
WIN.
"EX" WOODEN FENCE TO REMAIN
"EX" WOODEN FENCE TO REMAIN
16'' TREE TO BE
REMOVED
10'' TREE TRUNK TO
BE REMOVED
10'' TREE TO BE
REMOVED
"EX" UTILITY POLE
(N) CLEANOUT PER
COUNTY STDS. WITHIN 5'
OF PL. SEE DETAIL C-3
SHEET C5
"EX" TREE TO RE
"EX" STREET TREES TO REMAIN
USE "EX" 4" SANITARY LATERAL.
CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY EXACT
LOCATION, CONDITION, SIZE, & SLOPE.
PAVED AREA
LEGEND:
BLDG  1ST  FLOOR  FOOTPRINT  LINE
PROPERTY LINE
NEW ADDITION
NEW DETACHED ADU
2ND FLOOR
BLDG  2ND  FLOOR  FOOTPRINT  LINE
PROPOSED  SITE  PLAN
#1
#2
#3
#4
Type II Tree Protection fence 
around park strip street trees
X
X

--- page 86 ---
125 15th Avenue
Tree Inventory, Assessment,  
and Protection Report
September 29, 2022
Appendix B: Tree Protection Guidelines
B1: Plan Sheet Detail S-X

Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC - P.O Box 1010, Felton, CA 95018
831.331.8982 - rick@monarcharborist.com
 of 
9
17
TREE PROTECTION
Crown drip line or other limit of Tree Protection area. See
tree preservation plan for fence alignment.
4'-0"
Maintain existing
grade with the tree
protection fence
unless otherwise
indicated on the
plans.
2" x 6' steel posts
or approved equal.
Tree Protection
fence: High density
polyethylene fencing
with 3.5" x 1.5"
openings; Color-
orange. Steel posts
installed at 8' o.c.
5" thick
layer of mulch.
Notes:
1- See specifications for additional tree
protection requirements.
2- If there is no existing irrigation, see
specifications for watering requirements.
3- No pruning shall be performed except
by approved arborist.
4- No equipment shall operate inside the
protective fencing including during fence
installation and removal.
5- See site preparation plan for any
modifications with the Tree Protection
area.
SECTION VIEW
KEEP OUT
TREE
PROTECTION
AREA
8.5" x 11"
sign
laminated in
plastic spaced
every 50'
along the
fence.
URBAN TREE FOUNDATION © 2014
OPEN SOURCE FREE TO USE
Tree protection 
fence: Fencing shall 
be comprised of six-
foot high chain link 
mounted on eight-
foot tall, 1 7/8-inch 
diameter galvanized 
posts, driven 24 
inches into the 
ground.
Minimum 4” thick 
mulch layer
Crown diameter drip line distance equal to the outer most limit of foliage.
Notes: 
• All tree maintenance and care shall be 
performed by a qualiﬁed arborist with a 
C-61/D-49 California Contractors 
License.  Tree maintenance and care 
shall be speciﬁed in writing according to 
American National Standard for Tree 
Care Operations: Tree, Shrub and Other 
Woody Plant Management: Standard 
Practices parts 1 through 10 and adhere 
to ANSI Z133.1 safety standards and 
local regulations.   
• All maintenance is to be performed 
according to ISA Best Management 
Practices.
Notes: 
The Tree Protection Zone 
(TPZ) may vary in radius 
from the trunk and may or 
may not be established at 
the drip line distance.  
See arborist’s report and 
plan sheet for 
speciﬁcations of TPZ 
radii.
6’-0”
Modiﬁed by Monarch Consulting 
Arborists LLC, 2019

--- page 87 ---
125 15th Avenue
Tree Inventory, Assessment,  
and Protection Report
September 29, 2022
B2: Type II Tree Protection

 
Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC - P.O Box 1010, Felton, CA 95018
831.331.8982 - rick@monarcharborist.com
 of 
10
17
Any inadvertant sidewalk or 
curb replacement or trenching 
requires approval
Warning
Fencing must provide public passage 
while protecting all other land in TPZ.
Fence distance 
to outer branches or TPZ
Yard
Sidewalk
Parkway       Strip
Street
Warning
Figure 2: Type II Tree protection with fence placed 
along the sidewalk and curb to enclose the tree.  
Image City of Palo Alto 2006.

--- page 88 ---
125 15th Avenue
Tree Inventory, Assessment,  
and Protection Report
September 29, 2022
B3: Plan Sheet Detail S-Y 
Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC - P.O Box 1010, Felton, CA 95018
831.331.8982 - rick@monarcharborist.com
 of 
11
17
  
2” x 4” or 2” x 2” 
Dimensional Lumber
Sturdy Strap (steel, 
nylon, or synthetic rope)
2” x 4” ’or 2” x 2” - 6 to 8 
Feet Tall Dimensional 
Lumber Spaced 3” Apart
Sturdy Strap (steel, 
nylon, or synthetic rope)
Bridge With 4” - 6” Deep 
Course Woody Debris or 
4” x 4” Dimensional 
Lumber and 3/4” 
Plywood or Steel Road 
Plate.
Note: See Local Ordinance 
Requirements and Arborist’s 
Report for Additional Protection 
Speciﬁcations and Guidelines.
Trunk Protection Vertical Timber 
Detail
6’ MIN.
TREE TRUNK
12" Ø STRAW
FILLED BURLAP
WATTLES
4'-0"
ROOT PROTECTION
ZONE. SEE SPECS FOR
REQUIREMENTS
SECTION VIEW
TRUNK PROTECTION WITH WATTLE
S-Y
6’-0”

--- page 89 ---
125 15th Avenue
Tree Inventory, Assessment,  
and Protection Report
September 29, 2022
Pre-Construction Meeting with the Project Arborist 
Tree protection locations should be marked before any fencing contractor arrives.
Prior to beginning work, all contractors involved with the project should attend a pre 
construction meeting with the project arborist to review the tree protection guidelines.  Access 
routes, storage areas, and work procedures will be discussed.
Tree Protection Zones and Fencing 
 
Tree protection fencing should be established prior to the arrival of construction equipment or 
materials on site.  Fencing should be comprised of six-foot high chain link fencing mounted on 
eight-foot tall, 1 7/8-inch diameter galvanized posts, driven 24 inches into the ground and spaced 
no more than 10 feet apart. Once established, the fencing must remain undisturbed and be 
maintained throughout the construction process until final inspection.
The fencing should be maintained throughout the site during the construction period and should 
be inspected periodically for damage and proper functions. 
Fencing should be repaired, as necessary, to provide a physical barrier from construction 
activities.
A final inspection by the city arborist at the end of the project will be required prior to removing 
any tree protection fence and replacement tree shall be planted at this time. 
Tree Protection Signs
All sections of fencing should be clearly marked with signs stating that all areas within the 
fencing are Tree Protection Zones and that disturbance is prohibited.  Text on the signs should be 
in both English and Spanish (Appendix B).
Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC - P.O Box 1010, Felton, CA 95018
831.331.8982 - rick@monarcharborist.com
 of 
12
17

--- page 90 ---
125 15th Avenue
Tree Inventory, Assessment,  
and Protection Report
September 29, 2022
Monitoring 
Any trenching, construction or demolition that is expected to damage or encounter tree roots 
should be monitored by the project arborist or a qualified ISA Certified Arborist and should be 
documented.
The site should be evaluated by the project arborist or a qualified ISA Certified Arborist after 
construction is complete, and any necessary remedial work that needs to be performed should be 
noted.
Restrictions Within the Tree Protection Zone 
No storage of construction materials, debris, or excess soil will be allowed within the Tree 
Protection Zone.  Spoils from the trenching shall not be placed within the tree protection zone 
either temporarily or permanently.  Construction personnel and equipment shall be routed outside 
the tree protection zones.
Root Pruning 
Root pruning shall be supervised by the project arborist.  When roots over two inches in diameter 
are encountered they should be pruned by hand with loppers, handsaw, reciprocating saw, or 
chain saw rather than left crushed or torn.  Roots should be cut beyond sinker roots or outside 
root branch junctions and be supervised by the project arborist.  When completed, exposed roots 
should be kept moist with burlap or backfilled within one hour.
Boring or Tunneling 
Boring machines should be set up outside the drip line or established Tree Protection Zone.  
Boring may also be performed by digging a trench on both sides of the tree until roots one inch 
in diameter are encountered and then hand dug or excavated with an Air Spade® or similar air or 
water excavation tool.  Bore holes should be adjacent to the trunk and never go directly under the 
main stem to avoid oblique (heart) roots.  Bore holes should be a minimum of three feet deep. 
Timing 
If the construction is to occur during the summer months supplemental watering and treatments 
should be applied to help ensure survival during and after construction.
Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC - P.O Box 1010, Felton, CA 95018
831.331.8982 - rick@monarcharborist.com
 of 
13
17

--- page 91 ---
125 15th Avenue
Tree Inventory, Assessment,  
and Protection Report
September 29, 2022
Appendix C: Tree Protection Signs
C1: English
Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC - P.O Box 1010, Felton, CA 95018
831.331.8982 - rick@monarcharborist.com
 of 
14
17
WARNING
Tree Protection Zone
This Fence Shall not be moved without 
approval.  Only authorized personnel 
may enter this area!
Project Arborist

--- page 92 ---
125 15th Avenue
Tree Inventory, Assessment,  
and Protection Report
September 29, 2022
C2: Spanish
Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC - P.O Box 1010, Felton, CA 95018
831.331.8982 - rick@monarcharborist.com
 of 
15
17
CUIDADO
Zona De Arbol Pretejido
Esta cerca no sera removida sin 
aprobacion.  Solo personal autorizado 
entrara en esta area!
Project Arborist

--- page 93 ---
125 15th Avenue
Tree Inventory, Assessment,  
and Protection Report
September 29, 2022
Qualifications, Assumptions, and Limiting Conditions
Any legal description provided to the consultant is assumed to be correct.  Any titles or 
ownership of properties are assumed to be good and marketable.  All property is appraised or 
evaluated as though free and clear, under responsible ownership and competent management.
All property is presumed to be in conformance with applicable codes, ordinances, statutes, or 
other regulations.
Care has been taken to obtain information from reliable sources.  However, the consultant cannot 
be responsible for the accuracy of information provided by others.
The consultant shall not be required to give testimony or attend meetings, hearings, conferences, 
mediations, arbitration, or trials by reason of this report unless subsequent contractual 
arrangements are made, including payment of an additional fee for such services.
This report and any appraisal value expressed herein represent the opinion of the consultant, and 
the consultant’s fee is not contingent upon the reporting of a specified appraisal value, a 
stipulated result, or the occurrence of a subsequent event.
Sketches, drawings, and photographs in this report are intended for use as visual aids, are not 
necessarily to scale, and should not be construed as engineering or architectural reports or 
surveys.  The reproduction of information generated by architects, engineers, or other consultants 
on any sketches, drawings, or photographs is only for coordination and ease of reference.  
Inclusion of said information with any drawings or other documents does not constitute a 
representation as to the sufficiency or accuracy of said information.
Unless otherwise expressed: a) this report covers only examined items and their condition at the 
time of inspection; and b) the inspection is limited to visual examination of accessible items 
without dissection, excavation, probing, or coring.  There is no warranty or guarantee, expressed 
or implied, that structural problems or deficiencies of plants or property may not arise in the 
future.
Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC - P.O Box 1010, Felton, CA 95018
831.331.8982 - rick@monarcharborist.com
 of 
16
17

--- page 94 ---
125 15th Avenue
Tree Inventory, Assessment,  
and Protection Report
September 29, 2022
Certification of Performance
I Richard Gessner, Certify:
That I have personally inspected the tree(s) and/or the property referred to in this report, and 
have stated my findings accurately.  The extent of the evaluation and/or appraisal is stated in the 
attached report and Terms of Assignment;
That I have no current or prospective interest in the vegetation or the property that is the subject 
of this report, and I have no personal interest or bias with respect to the parties involved;
That the analysis, opinions and conclusions stated herein are my own;
That my analysis, opinions, and conclusions were developed and this report has been prepared 
according to commonly accepted Arboricultural practices;
That no one provided significant professional assistance to the consultant, except as indicated 
within the report.
That my compensation is not contingent upon the reporting of a predetermined conclusion that 
favors the cause of the client or any other party, nor upon the results of the assessment, the 
attainment of stipulated results, or the occurrence of any other subsequent events;
I further certify that I am a Registered Consulting Arborist® with the American Society of 
Consulting Arborists, and that I acknowledge, accept and adhere to the ASCA Standards of 
Professional Practice.  I am an International Society of Arboriculture Board Certified Master 
Arborist® and Tree Risk Assessor Qualified.  I have been involved with the practice of 
Arboriculture and the care and study of trees since 1998.
Richard J. Gessner
ASCA Registered Consulting Arborist® #496
ISA Board Certified Master Arborist® WE-4341B
Copyright
© Copyright 2022, Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC.  Other than specific exception granted for copies made by 
the client for the express uses stated in this report, no parts of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a 
retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, recording, or otherwise without 
the express, written permission of the author.
Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC - P.O Box 1010, Felton, CA 95018
831.331.8982 - rick@monarcharborist.com
 of 
17
17

--- page 95 ---
Page 1 of 1
ATTACHMENT 8
APPLICABLE SOLAR ENERGY GENERAL PLAN POLICIES
PA-2021-049, 125 15th Avenue
City of San Mateo General Plan – Applicable Policies (Adopted October 18, 2010)
The appellant has cited the following relevant planning documents:
1. General Plan Vision 2030
Available online at:  https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/1537/General-Plan
Applicable General Plan Elements and Policies are listed to facilitate further discussion and 
direction for the appeal regarding solar energy systems.
Land Use Element
LU 8.5: 
Solar Energy.  Promote or join local partnerships and opportunities that offer 
renewable energy options to the residents and/or help inform them of rebates and 
options while ensuring that the permit process is quick and inexpensive.
GOAL 8.4:
Sustainable Development. Incorporate Sustainability into existing single family 
and multifamily housing. Require sustainable features and techniques to address 
energy and water efficiency in remodels of existing structures.
Urban Design Element
UD 2.14: 
Sustainable Design and Building Construction. Require new development and 
building alterations to conform with the City's Sustainable Initiatives Plan and 
subsequent City Council adopted goals, policies, and standards pertaining to 
sustainable building construction.

--- page 96 ---
SOLAR ALTITUDE AND AZIMUTH INFORMATION ARE PROVIDED FROM, "HTTPS://DRAJMARSH.BITBUCKET.IO/SHADOWS3D.HTML" ONLINE SOFTWARE TOOL.
WEST
SUNSET
EAST
SUNRISE
JUNE.21 9AM.
42.27°
JUNE.21 NOON
75.79°
JUNE.21 3PM.
51.12°
SEPTEMBER.21 9AM.
37.07°
SEPTEMBER.21 NOON
57.98°
SEPTEMBER.21 3PM.
40.92°
DECEMBER.21 9AM.
15.10°
DECEMBER.21 NOON
29.08°
DECEMBER.21 3PM.
16.63°
MARCH.21 9AM.
31.55°
MARCH.21 NOON
52.48°
MARCH.21 3PM.
36.85°
PROJECT NAME:
ALL WORK DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS SHALL BE VERIFIED FOR
DIMENSION, GRADE, EXTENT AND COMPATIBILITY TO THE EXISTING SITE.
ANY DISCREPANCIES AND UNEXPECTED CONDITIONS THAT AFFECT OR
CHANGE THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS SHALL
BE BROUGHT TO THE AMS DESIGN’S ATTENTION IMMEDIATELY. DO NOT
PROCEED WITH THE WORK IN THE AREA OF DISCREPANCIES UNTIL ALL
SUCH DISCREPANCIES ARE RESOLVED. IF THE CONTRACTOR CHOOSES
TO DO SO HE SHALL BE PRECEDING AT HIS OWN RISK.
OMISSIONS FROM THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS OR THE MIS-
DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK WHICH IS MANIFESTLY NECESSARY TO
CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS, OR
WHICH IS CUSTOMARILY REFORMED, SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE
CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING SUCH OMITTED OR MIS-DESCRIBED
DETAILS OF THE WORK AS IF FULLY AND COMPLETELY SET FORTH AND
DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
SITE CONDITIONS: ALL CONTRACTORS AND SUB-CONTRACTORS SHALL
VERIFY DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS AT THE SITE PRIOR TO
COMMENCEMENT OF THEIR WORK. FAILURE TO DO SO SHALL NOT
RELEASE THEM FROM THE RESPONSIBILITY OF ESTIMATING THE WORK.
IF ANY VARIATION, DISCREPANCY OR OMISSION (BETWEEN THE INTENT
OF THESE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND THE EXISTING CONDITIONS ARE
FOUND, THE CONTRACTOR OR SUB-CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY AMS
DESIGN IN WRITING AND OBTAIN WRITTEN RESOLUTION FROM AMS
DESIGN PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH ANY RELATED WORK. 
SHEET NUMBER:
SHEET TITLE:
REVISION TABLE:
REVISION DATE
BY
4010 MOORPARK AVE#101,
 SAN JOSE, CA 95117
TELL: (415)254.1606
E-MAIL: OFFICE@AMSDESIGNLLP.COM
THESE PLANS ARE INTENDED ONLY FOR THE ORIGINAL SITE FOR WHICH
THEY WERE DESIGNED AND ARE THE PROPERTY OF AMS DESIGN. THESE
PLANS ARE PROTECTED UNDER COPYRIGHT LAWS AND MAY NOT BE
REVISED OR REPRODUCED IN WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE
EXPRESSED WRITTEN CONSENT OF AMS DESIGN. ANY USE OF THESE
PLANS ON OTHER SITES IS PROHIBITED WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF AMS
DESIGN. ANY DISCREPANCY DISCOVERED ON THESE PLANS SHALL PRIOR
TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE WORK IN QUESTION. ALL WRITTEN
DIMENSIONS SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER SCALED DIMENSIONS.
AMSDESIGN
DESIGN
DEP
PROJECT ID:                
DATE:                            
SCALE:
DRAWN BY:                 
15TH AVE.
RESIDENCE
125 15TH AVE., 
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
JULY.2022
S.A.
PLN
01
----
JAN.2022
S.A.
Azadeh Masrour
A-04.01
N.T.S
SHADOW STUDY
ALTITUDE ANGLES
LAT. 37.5° N
LONG. 122° W
S
M
A

--- page 97 ---
SOLAR ALTITUDE
SOLAR AZIMUTH
9 AM.
NOON
3 PM.
47.27°
95.26°
75.79°
170.83°
51.12°
-98.78°
DATE: 21 JUNE
SITE PLAN
 FRONT ELEVATION
SOLAR ALTITUDE AND AZIMUTH INFORMATION ARE PROVIDED FROM, "HTTPS://DRAJMARSH.BITBUCKET.IO/SHADOWS3D.HTML" ONLINE SOFTWARE TOOL.
SHADOW - 9AM.
SHADOW - NOON
SHADOW - 3PM.
FUR.
D26-8080
D24-3668
D23-3080
D25-2468
D10-14080
D12-3680
D13-2480
3080
D06-2880
D05-7680
D14-2880
D04-2480
D01-2480
D09-2680
D02-4680
D03-2880
D07-3080
D08-9080
D11-3080
UP
UP
ACCESS TO
CRAWL SPACE
18" X 24"
 SLOPE
GAS METER
200 AMP. 
ELEC. METER
HVAC (ADU)
AC UNIT (MAIN HOUSE)
100 AMP. ELEC.
METER "ADU"
3PM.
NOON
9AM.
WEST
SUNSET
EAST
SUNRISE
JUNE.21 9AM.
42.27°
JUNE.21 NOON
75.79°
JUNE.21 3PM.
51.12°
PROJECT NAME:
ALL WORK DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS SHALL BE VERIFIED FOR
DIMENSION, GRADE, EXTENT AND COMPATIBILITY TO THE EXISTING SITE.
ANY DISCREPANCIES AND UNEXPECTED CONDITIONS THAT AFFECT OR
CHANGE THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS SHALL
BE BROUGHT TO THE AMS DESIGN’S ATTENTION IMMEDIATELY. DO NOT
PROCEED WITH THE WORK IN THE AREA OF DISCREPANCIES UNTIL ALL
SUCH DISCREPANCIES ARE RESOLVED. IF THE CONTRACTOR CHOOSES
TO DO SO HE SHALL BE PRECEDING AT HIS OWN RISK.
OMISSIONS FROM THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS OR THE MIS-
DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK WHICH IS MANIFESTLY NECESSARY TO
CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS, OR
WHICH IS CUSTOMARILY REFORMED, SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE
CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING SUCH OMITTED OR MIS-DESCRIBED
DETAILS OF THE WORK AS IF FULLY AND COMPLETELY SET FORTH AND
DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
SITE CONDITIONS: ALL CONTRACTORS AND SUB-CONTRACTORS SHALL
VERIFY DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS AT THE SITE PRIOR TO
COMMENCEMENT OF THEIR WORK. FAILURE TO DO SO SHALL NOT
RELEASE THEM FROM THE RESPONSIBILITY OF ESTIMATING THE WORK.
IF ANY VARIATION, DISCREPANCY OR OMISSION (BETWEEN THE INTENT
OF THESE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND THE EXISTING CONDITIONS ARE
FOUND, THE CONTRACTOR OR SUB-CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY AMS
DESIGN IN WRITING AND OBTAIN WRITTEN RESOLUTION FROM AMS
DESIGN PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH ANY RELATED WORK. 
SHEET NUMBER:
SHEET TITLE:
REVISION TABLE:
REVISION DATE
BY
4010 MOORPARK AVE#101,
 SAN JOSE, CA 95117
TELL: (415)254.1606
E-MAIL: OFFICE@AMSDESIGNLLP.COM
THESE PLANS ARE INTENDED ONLY FOR THE ORIGINAL SITE FOR WHICH
THEY WERE DESIGNED AND ARE THE PROPERTY OF AMS DESIGN. THESE
PLANS ARE PROTECTED UNDER COPYRIGHT LAWS AND MAY NOT BE
REVISED OR REPRODUCED IN WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE
EXPRESSED WRITTEN CONSENT OF AMS DESIGN. ANY USE OF THESE
PLANS ON OTHER SITES IS PROHIBITED WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF AMS
DESIGN. ANY DISCREPANCY DISCOVERED ON THESE PLANS SHALL PRIOR
TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE WORK IN QUESTION. ALL WRITTEN
DIMENSIONS SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER SCALED DIMENSIONS.
AMSDESIGN
DESIGN
DEP
PROJECT ID:                
DATE:                            
SCALE:
DRAWN BY:                 
15TH AVE.
RESIDENCE
125 15TH AVE., 
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
JULY.2022
S.A.
PLN
01
----
JAN.2022
S.A.
Azadeh Masrour
9AM.
NOON
A-04.02
SHADOW STUDY
21 JUNE
N
3PM.
1/10'' = 1'
S
M
A
NOON
9:00 AM.
3:00 PM.

--- page 98 ---
SOLAR ALTITUDE
SOLAR AZIMUTH
9 AM.
NOON
3 PM.
31.55°
117.85°
52.48°
173.57°
36.85°
-124.80°
DATE: 21 JUNE
SITE PLAN
 FRONT ELEVATION
SOLAR ALTITUDE AND AZIMUTH INFORMATION ARE PROVIDED FROM, "HTTPS://DRAJMARSH.BITBUCKET.IO/SHADOWS3D.HTML" ONLINE SOFTWARE TOOL.
SHADOW - 9AM.
SHADOW - NOON
SHADOW - 3PM.
FUR.
D26-8080
D24-3668
D23-3080
D25-2468
D10-14080
D12-3680
D13-2480
3080
D06-2880
D05-7680
D14-2880
D04-2480
D01-2480
D09-2680
D02-4680
D03-2880
D07-3080
D08-9080
D11-3080
UP
UP
ACCESS TO
CRAWL SPACE
18" X 24"
 SLOPE
B
A-03.01
B
A-03.01
GAS METER
200 AMP. 
ELEC. METER
HVAC (ADU)
AC UNIT (MAIN HOUSE)
100 AMP. ELEC.
METER "ADU"
WEST
SUNSET
EAST
SUNRISE
MARCH.21 9AM.
31.55°
MARCH.21 NOON
52.48°
MARCH.21 3PM.
36.85°
NOON
9AM.
3PM.
PROJECT NAME:
ALL WORK DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS SHALL BE VERIFIED FOR
DIMENSION, GRADE, EXTENT AND COMPATIBILITY TO THE EXISTING SITE.
ANY DISCREPANCIES AND UNEXPECTED CONDITIONS THAT AFFECT OR
CHANGE THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS SHALL
BE BROUGHT TO THE AMS DESIGN’S ATTENTION IMMEDIATELY. DO NOT
PROCEED WITH THE WORK IN THE AREA OF DISCREPANCIES UNTIL ALL
SUCH DISCREPANCIES ARE RESOLVED. IF THE CONTRACTOR CHOOSES
TO DO SO HE SHALL BE PRECEDING AT HIS OWN RISK.
OMISSIONS FROM THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS OR THE MIS-
DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK WHICH IS MANIFESTLY NECESSARY TO
CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS, OR
WHICH IS CUSTOMARILY REFORMED, SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE
CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING SUCH OMITTED OR MIS-DESCRIBED
DETAILS OF THE WORK AS IF FULLY AND COMPLETELY SET FORTH AND
DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
SITE CONDITIONS: ALL CONTRACTORS AND SUB-CONTRACTORS SHALL
VERIFY DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS AT THE SITE PRIOR TO
COMMENCEMENT OF THEIR WORK. FAILURE TO DO SO SHALL NOT
RELEASE THEM FROM THE RESPONSIBILITY OF ESTIMATING THE WORK.
IF ANY VARIATION, DISCREPANCY OR OMISSION (BETWEEN THE INTENT
OF THESE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND THE EXISTING CONDITIONS ARE
FOUND, THE CONTRACTOR OR SUB-CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY AMS
DESIGN IN WRITING AND OBTAIN WRITTEN RESOLUTION FROM AMS
DESIGN PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH ANY RELATED WORK. 
SHEET NUMBER:
SHEET TITLE:
REVISION TABLE:
REVISION DATE
BY
4010 MOORPARK AVE#101,
 SAN JOSE, CA 95117
TELL: (415)254.1606
E-MAIL: OFFICE@AMSDESIGNLLP.COM
THESE PLANS ARE INTENDED ONLY FOR THE ORIGINAL SITE FOR WHICH
THEY WERE DESIGNED AND ARE THE PROPERTY OF AMS DESIGN. THESE
PLANS ARE PROTECTED UNDER COPYRIGHT LAWS AND MAY NOT BE
REVISED OR REPRODUCED IN WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE
EXPRESSED WRITTEN CONSENT OF AMS DESIGN. ANY USE OF THESE
PLANS ON OTHER SITES IS PROHIBITED WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF AMS
DESIGN. ANY DISCREPANCY DISCOVERED ON THESE PLANS SHALL PRIOR
TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE WORK IN QUESTION. ALL WRITTEN
DIMENSIONS SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER SCALED DIMENSIONS.
AMSDESIGN
DESIGN
DEP
PROJECT ID:                
DATE:                            
SCALE:
DRAWN BY:                 
15TH AVE.
RESIDENCE
125 15TH AVE., 
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
JULY.2022
S.A.
PLN
01
----
JAN.2022
S.A.
Azadeh Masrour
A-04.03
SHADOW STUDY
21 MARCH
1/10'' = 1'
9AM.
N
3PM.
NOON
S
M
A
NOON
9:00 AM.
3:00 PM.

--- page 99 ---
SOLAR ALTITUDE
SOLAR AZIMUTH
9 AM.
NOON
3 PM.
37.07°
115.50°
57.89°
177.47°
40.92°
-116.31°
DATE: 21 SEPTEMBER
SITE PLAN
 FRONT ELEVATION
SOLAR ALTITUDE AND AZIMUTH INFORMATION ARE PROVIDED FROM, "HTTPS://DRAJMARSH.BITBUCKET.IO/SHADOWS3D.HTML" ONLINE SOFTWARE TOOL.
SHADOW - 9AM.
SHADOW - NOON
SHADOW - 3PM.
FUR.
D26-8080
D24-3668
D23-3080
D25-2468
D10-14080
D12-3680
D13-2480
3080
D06-2880
D05-7680
D14-2880
D04-2480
D01-2480
D09-2680
D02-4680
D03-2880
D07-3080
D08-9080
D11-3080
UP
UP
ACCESS TO
CRAWL SPACE
18" X 24"
 SLOPE
GAS METER
200 AMP. 
ELEC. METER
HVAC (ADU)
AC UNIT (MAIN HOUSE)
100 AMP. ELEC.
METER "ADU"
NOON
9AM.
3PM.
WEST
SUNSET
EAST
SUNRISE
SEPTEMBER.21 9AM.
37.07°
SEPTEMBER.21 NOON
57.98°
SEPTEMBER.21 3PM.
40.92°
PROJECT NAME:
ALL WORK DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS SHALL BE VERIFIED FOR
DIMENSION, GRADE, EXTENT AND COMPATIBILITY TO THE EXISTING SITE.
ANY DISCREPANCIES AND UNEXPECTED CONDITIONS THAT AFFECT OR
CHANGE THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS SHALL
BE BROUGHT TO THE AMS DESIGN’S ATTENTION IMMEDIATELY. DO NOT
PROCEED WITH THE WORK IN THE AREA OF DISCREPANCIES UNTIL ALL
SUCH DISCREPANCIES ARE RESOLVED. IF THE CONTRACTOR CHOOSES
TO DO SO HE SHALL BE PRECEDING AT HIS OWN RISK.
OMISSIONS FROM THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS OR THE MIS-
DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK WHICH IS MANIFESTLY NECESSARY TO
CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS, OR
WHICH IS CUSTOMARILY REFORMED, SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE
CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING SUCH OMITTED OR MIS-DESCRIBED
DETAILS OF THE WORK AS IF FULLY AND COMPLETELY SET FORTH AND
DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
SITE CONDITIONS: ALL CONTRACTORS AND SUB-CONTRACTORS SHALL
VERIFY DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS AT THE SITE PRIOR TO
COMMENCEMENT OF THEIR WORK. FAILURE TO DO SO SHALL NOT
RELEASE THEM FROM THE RESPONSIBILITY OF ESTIMATING THE WORK.
IF ANY VARIATION, DISCREPANCY OR OMISSION (BETWEEN THE INTENT
OF THESE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND THE EXISTING CONDITIONS ARE
FOUND, THE CONTRACTOR OR SUB-CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY AMS
DESIGN IN WRITING AND OBTAIN WRITTEN RESOLUTION FROM AMS
DESIGN PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH ANY RELATED WORK. 
SHEET NUMBER:
SHEET TITLE:
REVISION TABLE:
REVISION DATE
BY
4010 MOORPARK AVE#101,
 SAN JOSE, CA 95117
TELL: (415)254.1606
E-MAIL: OFFICE@AMSDESIGNLLP.COM
THESE PLANS ARE INTENDED ONLY FOR THE ORIGINAL SITE FOR WHICH
THEY WERE DESIGNED AND ARE THE PROPERTY OF AMS DESIGN. THESE
PLANS ARE PROTECTED UNDER COPYRIGHT LAWS AND MAY NOT BE
REVISED OR REPRODUCED IN WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE
EXPRESSED WRITTEN CONSENT OF AMS DESIGN. ANY USE OF THESE
PLANS ON OTHER SITES IS PROHIBITED WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF AMS
DESIGN. ANY DISCREPANCY DISCOVERED ON THESE PLANS SHALL PRIOR
TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE WORK IN QUESTION. ALL WRITTEN
DIMENSIONS SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER SCALED DIMENSIONS.
AMSDESIGN
DESIGN
DEP
PROJECT ID:                
DATE:                            
SCALE:
DRAWN BY:                 
15TH AVE.
RESIDENCE
125 15TH AVE., 
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
JULY.2022
S.A.
PLN
01
----
JAN.2022
S.A.
Azadeh Masrour
A-04.04
1/10'' = 1'
SHADOW STUDY
21 SEPTEMBER
9AM.
NOON
N
3PM.
S
M
A
9:00 AM.
3:00 PM.
NOON

--- page 100 ---
SOLAR ALTITUDE
SOLAR AZIMUTH
9 AM.
NOON
3 PM.
15.10°
136.50°
29.08°
178.50°
16.63°
-138.72°
DATE: 21 DECEMBER
SITE PLAN
 FRONT ELEVATION
SHADOW - 9AM.
SHADOW - NOON
SHADOW - 3PM.
SOLAR ALTITUDE AND AZIMUTH INFORMATION ARE PROVIDED FROM, "HTTPS://DRAJMARSH.BITBUCKET.IO/SHADOWS3D.HTML" ONLINE SOFTWARE TOOL.
FUR.
D26-8080
D24-3668
D23-3080
D25-2468
D10-14080
D12-3680
D13-2480
3080
D06-2880
D05-7680
D14-2880
D04-2480
D01-2480
D09-2680
D02-4680
D03-2880
D07-3080
D08-9080
D11-3080
UP
UP
ACCESS TO
CRAWL SPACE
18" X 24"
 SLOPE
6" X 16"
6" X 16"
ACCESS TO
CRAWL SPACE
18" X 24"
 SLOPE
W
9
D
1
SUN
TUNNEL
A-03.01
A
B
A-03.01
A-03.01
A
B
A-03.01
  
SKYLIGHTS SHALL BE TESTED AND
APPROVED, 
BEARING 
A 
LABEL
INDICATING COMPLIANCE WITH THE
REQUIREMENTS OF AAMA/WDMA/CSA
101/I.S.2/A440. [CRC §R308.6.9] 
TRUSS SERIES22 1/2"X45 3/4" . FIXED DECK-
MOUNT SKYLIGHT WITH LAMINATED LOW- E3
GLASS SKYLIGHTS SHALL BE TESTED AND
APPROVED, BEARING A LABEL INDICATING
COMPLIANCE WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF
AAMA/WDMA/CSA 101/I.S.2/ A440. [CRC §R308.6.9]
SKY L.
22" X 30"
NEW
NEW  STUCCO
ALL EXT. WALLS
NEW  STUCCO
NEW  STUCCO
TO MATCH WITH
EXISTING WALLS
WHITE SMOOTH STUCCO
6"X16" CRAWL
SPACE VENT
UNDER FLOOR VENTS TO
BE W/3' OF CORNERS BUT
NOT IN SHEARWALLS
UNLESS REINFORCED
BOARD & BATTEN
BOARD SIDING
NEW VENT DOES NOT INTERFERE WITH
ANY BRACE WALLS/SHEAR PANELS
GAS METER
200 AMP. 
ELEC. METER
HVAC (ADU)
AC UNIT (MAIN HOUSE)
100 AMP. ELEC.
METER "ADU"
BUILT IN SEAT 24" ABOVE F.F.
WEST
SUNSET
EAST
SUNRISE
DECEMBER.21 9AM.
15.10°
DECEMBER.21 NOON
29.08°
DECEMBER.21 3PM.
16.63°
3PM.
NOON
9AM.
PROJECT NAME:
ALL WORK DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS SHALL BE VERIFIED FOR
DIMENSION, GRADE, EXTENT AND COMPATIBILITY TO THE EXISTING SITE.
ANY DISCREPANCIES AND UNEXPECTED CONDITIONS THAT AFFECT OR
CHANGE THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS SHALL
BE BROUGHT TO THE AMS DESIGN’S ATTENTION IMMEDIATELY. DO NOT
PROCEED WITH THE WORK IN THE AREA OF DISCREPANCIES UNTIL ALL
SUCH DISCREPANCIES ARE RESOLVED. IF THE CONTRACTOR CHOOSES
TO DO SO HE SHALL BE PRECEDING AT HIS OWN RISK.
OMISSIONS FROM THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS OR THE MIS-
DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK WHICH IS MANIFESTLY NECESSARY TO
CARRY OUT THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS, OR
WHICH IS CUSTOMARILY REFORMED, SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE
CONTRACTOR FROM PERFORMING SUCH OMITTED OR MIS-DESCRIBED
DETAILS OF THE WORK AS IF FULLY AND COMPLETELY SET FORTH AND
DESCRIBED IN THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
SITE CONDITIONS: ALL CONTRACTORS AND SUB-CONTRACTORS SHALL
VERIFY DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS AT THE SITE PRIOR TO
COMMENCEMENT OF THEIR WORK. FAILURE TO DO SO SHALL NOT
RELEASE THEM FROM THE RESPONSIBILITY OF ESTIMATING THE WORK.
IF ANY VARIATION, DISCREPANCY OR OMISSION (BETWEEN THE INTENT
OF THESE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND THE EXISTING CONDITIONS ARE
FOUND, THE CONTRACTOR OR SUB-CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY AMS
DESIGN IN WRITING AND OBTAIN WRITTEN RESOLUTION FROM AMS
DESIGN PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH ANY RELATED WORK. 
SHEET NUMBER:
SHEET TITLE:
REVISION TABLE:
REVISION DATE
BY
4010 MOORPARK AVE#101,
 SAN JOSE, CA 95117
TELL: (415)254.1606
E-MAIL: OFFICE@AMSDESIGNLLP.COM
THESE PLANS ARE INTENDED ONLY FOR THE ORIGINAL SITE FOR WHICH
THEY WERE DESIGNED AND ARE THE PROPERTY OF AMS DESIGN. THESE
PLANS ARE PROTECTED UNDER COPYRIGHT LAWS AND MAY NOT BE
REVISED OR REPRODUCED IN WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE
EXPRESSED WRITTEN CONSENT OF AMS DESIGN. ANY USE OF THESE
PLANS ON OTHER SITES IS PROHIBITED WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF AMS
DESIGN. ANY DISCREPANCY DISCOVERED ON THESE PLANS SHALL PRIOR
TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE WORK IN QUESTION. ALL WRITTEN
DIMENSIONS SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER SCALED DIMENSIONS.
AMSDESIGN
DESIGN
DEP
PROJECT ID:                
DATE:                            
SCALE:
DRAWN BY:                 
15TH AVE.
RESIDENCE
125 15TH AVE., 
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
JULY.2022
S.A.
PLN
01
----
JAN.2022
S.A.
Azadeh Masrour
A-04.05
1/10'' = 1'
SHADOW STUDY
21 DECEMBER
9AM.
NOON
N
3PM.
S
M
A
9:00 AM.
3:00 PM.
NOON

--- page 101 ---
July 8, 2021

Neighborhood Informational Meeting Comments for 125 15th Ave in San Mateo.

We had a total of seven people in the meeting including myself, Farbod Mobed. Kathy Uros is
fae reich red cis wes gd ee eoecctlial
Margaret an arate devices. Their comments consisted

of the ADU door and windows facing the alley way and their property and also one misplaced
window on the side of the ADU which has been corrected.

The owners, architects, and myself were there helping to answer these questions and the
meeting went by smoothly.

Thank you,

Farbod Mobed
Southwest Investment Funds LLC

Kathy Uros Thu, Jul 8, 6:41 PM (4 days ago)
tome

Margaret Wiliam TZ Zi Tue, Jul6,9:07AM(6daysago) yy @&

tome ¥

Hi Farbod

My name is Maggie and | ive TE <icecy behind the proposed project that I've been notified about.

| have a number of questions about the drawings that | received and | would love a change to talk with you about the project and the drawings. One question | have is about the orientation
of the ADU since it looks like the windows open up directly on to the fence and also to the Alley, which doesn’t make sense to me.

Are you available to discuss this before the meeting?

What is a good time to meet by phone, Zoom, or in person at the site?

Thank you,

Maggie
Due to the Shelter in Place order for Covid-19, I'm working from home. Please contact me by email or cell phone |

Margaret Williams, AIA

Margaret Williams Thu, Jul 8,6:35PM(4daysago) yy @&

tome ¥

My husband and | joined the neighborhood meeting and our info is:
Margaret and Mike Williams

Thanks,


--- page 102 ---
July 13, 2021 
Here are notes from the neighborhood meeting you hosted on Thursday July 8th, 2021.  These comments are 
related to the remodel and ADU addition located at 125 15th Avenue, San Mateo.   
 
We are happy to see an upgrade to the main residence and we offer the following comments: 
1. Entryway – the front of the house could be less boxy and rectangular looking if the living room recessed 
by 2 to 3 feet from the bedroom wing of the house.  This would give some articulation to the street view 
of the house.   
2. The overhang over the front door should go past the trim of the front doors so it doesn’t look too small.  
It looks a little small and could be an interesting feature of the entry.   
3.  The windows to the ADU face the side fence and there are no windows on the backyard side.  This 
prevents any cross ventilation, requiring Air Conditioning instead of the natural cooling we have here in 
San Mateo, which is not very sustainable.  This also creates a very boring wall on the garden side of the 
ADU.  A solution could be created with landscaping, small subtle paving treatment or planting in order to 
create a small outdoor space and entry from the backyard of the property.  The only windows and doors 
for the ADU are facing to the fence and facing to our property.  Therefore the impact of this ADU is 
much greater to our property than to the property that it belongs to, as it is currently designed.  
 
As for the ADU, we are supportive of providing an additional affordable living unit in the neighborhood.  The 
main concern is that the access to the new unit should be from 15th Avenue NOT the alley, since the alley is a 
shared right of way not a parking area.  Therefore, no vehicles should be allowed to park in the alley for 
residential access to the proposed ADU.  For these reasons, the primary entrance to the ADU should be from the 
property address at 125 15th Avenue, and the access door should NOT be located on the alley.   Therefore the 
entrance to the ADU should be located on the east side of the ADU.  The residence located adjacent to the 
subject property to the west includes an ADU has an entrance door from the back yard not on the alley and is 
accessible from 15th Avenue.  An entrance to the unit could be created from the backyard side of the ADU and a 
side gate could easily be accessed from the 15th Avenue to the backyard.  I have stayed in ADUs in other cities 
and I did NOT access the unit from a neighbor’s property (the alley) – we accessed it from the OWNER’S side 
yard.  
 
The current property owner/developers expressed wanting to provide privacy to the main residence as the 
reason why the entrance door is located on the alley. The privacy of our property located behind the subject 
property, and the neighboring properties on 15th and 14th Avenues sharing the alley should NOT be impacted for 
the benefit of the subject property’s development and privacy.   In fact, the Definition of an Accessory Building 
indicates that it serves the principal building, per San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.04.010 and 020.  The 
alley Exterior Elevation should be used for a garage or a fence and the current design will greatly impact our 
quality of life.   Per San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.19.050l (1) d windows are to take into account the 
adjacent neighbors.  We use our backyard for relaxing and entertaining and if there are cars and people in the 
alley, our privacy and the peace and quiet of our backyard would be affected.   
 
I will also be providing my comments to the City of San Mateo Planning Dept.  I look forward to seeing the 
improvements of the house and the revised design for the ADU.  
 
Thank you, 
Maggie and Mike Williams  
 San Mateo

--- page 103 ---
125 15" Ave Meeting Minutes - April 7, 2022
Southwest Investment Funds LLC

AMS Design
Prepared by Farbod Mobed

Meeting Started promptly at 6:30 with a wait time of 10 minutes until 6:40 for everyone to join and start
the recording. Two individuals had reached out prior saying they will be participating. Had a total of 5
participants. Matthew Gubes, Aaron Campbell, Michael Medwid, Robert Bruno, and INQUIS, whom I
never got a real name from.

Matthew Gubes and his wife live next door on the right side, they had a concern about solar. They were
assured that the design is well within city and code regulations.

Aaron Camp! had concerns about on street parking and overall design and how street
will be cramped with parking and how design does not go with neighborhood aesthetic.

Michael Medwid i. had concerns about garbage can space on the street due to cramped
parking space.

Robert Bruno, unknown address, had concerns about ADU and the size of the home. Was assured that the
home footprint is not getting much larger.

INQUIS, never got name, address, or saw their face, was curious as to who the owner would be.
Please see below for email screenshots from individuals who took the time to reach out with concerns.
Thank you,

Farbod Mobed (Southwest Investment Funds LLC)

tome =
Hello, we attended the neighborhood meeting last week and posted the question in the chat, but was never answered. When do you expect lo get the permil/start construction? Haw long do you expect the construction to take?

Thank you!
Gary

Sent from my iPhone

Be Farbod Mobed <farbod.mobed@gmail com> 5:25PM (I minute ago) yy ©

to henochsp +

Hello,

The start of construction is completely based on when the permit is received. This is completely up to the city and when they want to issue the permit Could be a few months to a year or more. No way to know for sure.

Thank you,

Farbod Mobed

‘inn iii Wed, Mar 30, 5:21 PM (11 days ago, vw 4a
tome +
Hello,

We lve next doo We are planning to attend the planned Zoom meetring on 4/7, but my main concern is the height since we have solar panels on 125 side. | want thorough analysis to make sure the new 2nd floor will
not block our solar panels at any time of the day or season, especially when the sun is lower in Winter.
Thanks


--- page 104 ---
1
Linda Ly
From:
Lauren Layne (LLAYNE) 
Sent:
Wednesday, April 13, 2022 9:36 AM
To:
Linda Ly
Cc:
; Jason Fox
Subject:
Plan Number NIN-2022-034
Hi Ms Ly, 
 
We are writing you following the required Neighborhood Information Meeting that was held last Thursday 07Apr22 
regarding a proposed house demolition and rebuild at 125 15th Avenue in the Hayward Park neighborhood.  The Plan 
code is NIN‐2022‐034 and the APN # is 034294120. 
 
We are writing with specific concerns about: 
1) The redesign of the home with the unspoken intention of strictly rental usage 
2) The number of adults that would be living in the home and the corresponding number of vehicles (or more if they 
have >1 vehicle) without provided garage and/or driveway parking 
3) Height of the two story plans of the home and privacy concerns for adjacent neighbors 
4) Increased sewer issues in the alley between 14th and 15th avenues due to the increased number of bathrooms and 
expected adults living in the rebuild 
5) Planned design of the home in a historic 100+ year old neighborhood 
6) The attitudes of the architect Farbod Pourdehmobed and the AMS Designer during the meeting that they could do 
anything they or the home owner wanted if "the city approves it" regardless of the concerns of the existing neighbors.   
7) The lack of attendance at the meeting by the home owner to hear the neighborhood concerns and have a meaningful 
and productive discussion about their plans. 
 
Our ask of you is to review the plans presented to you with the above neighbor concerns in mind and ask yourself if this 
were happening in your neighborhood if you would find it welcome and acceptable. We care deeply about our 
neighborhood and the people who live here and want to preserve the general harmony and respect among neighbors 
that exists currently.  Change is inevitable of course, but we can all at least try to make change for the better and that 
betters an entire community vs an individual that is just looking to profit. 
 
Specifically: 
1) One of the neighbors on the call is a home builder himself and reviewed the rebuild plan and commented on the very 
small size of the planned bedrooms.  He noted that no one designs a home for themselves with bedrooms that small as 
they would be uncomfortable.  He also noted a person that intended to live in the new home would design an 
adequately sized garage and/or driveway for their vehicles vs converting the existing garage into an ADU.  When we 
asked  Farbod Pourdehmobed and the AMS Designer if the home owner was planning to live in the home they did not 
answer.  When we asked if the owner intended to rent the home they stated that was his choice.  The owner was not 
present to answer the question. The take‐away from the meeting is that this rebuild is designed to become a rental 
home and the doubling of the number of bedrooms and addition of the ADU to replace the garage was intended to 
maximize occupancy and profits for the owner. 
2) The Hayward Park neighborhood is 100+ year old established neighborhood built with mostly small/cottage size 
single‐family homes designed for ~2 adults per household. The infrastructure of the roads, the lot sizes, the street 
widths, the alleyways, etc. of the neighborhood was designed to accommodate that model.  We have seen the 
unfortunate consequences on 15th Avenue and surrounding streets when the number of adults living in a home exceeds 
that design limitation.  Adults have cars and need somewhere to park them and that usually ends up being the street in 
front of their home. But when the household has more than 2 cars and park them in front of other people's home, 
therefore taking that home's expected parking spots, it quickly creates tension among neighbors.  Particularly on

--- page 105 ---
2
garbage collection day when extra space is needed in front of a home to place the bins there is a cascade effect with lost 
parking spots that results in unhappy people having to park down the street from their homes.  Some neighbors will also 
park a car semi‐permanently in a spot so there is even less circulating space on the street for residents, visitors, mail, 
and delivery vehicles. 
3) As mentioned, most of the houses in Hayward Park are one‐story smaller homes and most homes in the area and on 
15th Ave retain their original footprint. The plans at 125 15th Avenue are for a tall 2‐story house with windows that 
overlook the backyards of the neighbors and will have views into the homes on either side.  We are two doors down, but 
have realized with the height of the plans for the house they are also likely to be able to see across the home in between 
ours into our upstairs bathroom window.  Privacy among neighbors is essential for any hope of community harmony.   
4) The homes on the south side of 14th Avenue and the north side of 15th Avenue share an alley which holds the main 
sewer line for the homes and serves as a 'community driveway' to the garages.  Parking is not allowed in the alley.  The 
alley is a mix of pavement, gravel, and the original dirt lane.  The additional ADU and additional bedrooms on an aging 
sewer system raises safety concerns which have been seen with existing homes on the street that have multiple family 
dwelling on a single family lot. 
5) The modern design of the home with two stories, balconies overlooking the front and back, and no real back‐yard 
with the planned size of the home, simply does not fit in with the integrity of the neighborhood and existing 100+ year 
old homes on the street and in the neighborhood.  Renovation of these old homes is of course acceptable as long as the 
integrity of the neighborhood and respect for the residents is maintained.  The architect and designer need to respect 
the historical nature of the neighborhood and plan accordingly vs creating incongruent structures that are not in 
harmony with their surroundings. 
6) The attitudes of the architect Farbod Pourdehmobed and the designer from AMS Design (did not catch her name) 
during the meeting was that it was their jobs to do the bidding of the owner and try to get away with as much as 
possible, regardless of the concerns from neighbors. This struck us as an unethical approach. Their standard response to 
concerns about the above 5 items and others raised by neighbors was "Let's see if the City approves it."   
7) Perhaps most concerning about the Neighborhood Information Meeting was the lack of attendance by the property 
owner.  Even if the owner truly had a family emergency and could not attend one would think a sincere person would 
ask to reschedule the meeting or would have scheduled a follow‐up meeting with the neighborhood to have a 
meaningful discussion about our concerns.  The lack of attendance and follow‐up indicates a lack of sincerity from the 
property owner and underscores the sense of disrespect that was present throughout the 07Apr2022 call.  
Thanks for taking the time to review our concerns. 
 
Please contact us with any questions. 
Best to you, 
Lauren Layne & Jason Fox 
 
‐‐

--- page 106 ---
1
Linda Ly
From:
aaron 
Sent:
Thursday, April 14, 2022 8:36 AM
To:
Linda Ly
Subject:
Concern after recent Info Neighborhood Meeting
Hello Linda Ly, 
I’m writing with concerns about Plan Number NIN‐2022‐034, a proposed demo and rebuild on our street (actually, my 
immediate nextdoor neighbor). We just had the required Neighborhood Information Meeting via Zoom on April 7 (APN 
#034294120), and the host made it very clear that the owners of the home (who were not even present) had no interest 
in what the concerns for the neighborhood were. Five main points were brought up: (1) neighbors’ privacy due to 
window placement, (2) possible shading of existing solar panels, (3) owners not present for a real conversation, (4) 
increased parking issues, and (5) integrity of the Historical Hayward Park neighborhood. 
It was brought up to Farbod and AMS Design, that it appears there are window openings 20 feet above ground level 
looking directly into the neighbor’s backyard. They deflected the question and any concerns we had. Their answer was 
simply, “Let’s see if the city approves it.”.  
It was also mentioned to Farbod and AMS Design, that the neighbors have Solar Panels on their roof. Then asked if they 
have checked on the issues of possible shading of them due to new construction or trees, since there is a CA state law 
about it. They again simply said, “Let’s see if the city approves it.”. 
When we, the concerned neighbors, realized Farbod was not the owner of the home, we asked if the owner would be 
joining us. He said no. We then asked if he, Farbod, was representing the owner, and he again replied no. We asked if we 
could reschedule the Neighborhood Information Meeting to another date when the owner could join us. There was no 
answer and the meeting proceeded. To have a real conversaiont, we feel the homeowner should have been present at 
this meeting. 
The concern about parking in our neighborhood was also brought up. Adding a larger home (double the number of 
bedrooms) and an ADU could add 3‐4 more cars to the block when no new parking spaces are being added would only 
add to the current problem (especially on Garbage Day). Part of current issue is that 30% of the homes do not have a 
driveway, so they are forced to park on the street along with overflow parking from the B Street apartments. The 
question came up if the project could include the addition of a driveway. No acceptable response was given.  
And last, but not least, the concern about the integrity of the look and feel of our Historic Hayward Park neighborhood. 
The Hayward Park Neighborhood is filled with wonderful historic (mostly) single story homes about to celebrate their 
100 year anniversary. Adding a very tall modern home just does not look nor feel right in this Historical San Mateo 
neighborhood. 
As you can see, there was no true concern for the community demonstrated by their responses and the fact that the 
new owners were a no show. The continual response was simply “Let’s see if the city approves it.”. So I am asking you, 
the city, to please review these plans in more detail. Put yourselves in the shoes of the local neighbors, and ask 
yourself,  as it pertains to these proposed plans “Is this neighborly?”, “Is this appropriate?”, and “Is this adding to the 
integrity of this Historical neighborhood?” 
Thank you for your time. 
Sincerely,

--- page 107 ---
2
Aaron Campbell 
 
San Mateo

--- page 108 ---
Margaret Williams
From:
To:
Planning
Subject:
Re: Project at 125 15th Ave
Date:
Friday, April 22, 2022 10:37:06 AM
Attachments:
image008.png
image009.png
image010.png
image011.png
image012.png
image013.png
NIN-2022-034 125 15th Ave.pdf
Thanks for sending this.  It’s interesting that other neighbors got notified but I did not.  We
were the only ones to join the virtual neighborhood meeting for the last version they had.  I
suppose I had too many comments for them.  I have no comments this time since I understand
there is nothing that prevents them from having the ADU entrance from the alley, across from
my backyard. 
Thank you. 
Best,
Maggie 
Margaret Williams 
Sent from my iPad
On Apr 22, 2022, at 10:03 AM, Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
wrote:
Hello Margaret,
Attached is a copy of the letter and plans for 125 15th Ave.
Thank you,
Laura Aguirre
Senior Development Review Technician, Community Development Department

--- page 109 ---
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7187 | laguirre@cityofsanmateo.org
  
 
 
 
Visit the Citizen Self-Service (CSS) Portal today! Skip the line…now you can submit
for permits online, track permits, planning applications, code enforcement cases,
business tax records, and request inspections online from anywhere, at any time
using a computer, tablet, or smartphone!
 
 
 
From: Margaret Williams 
 
Sent: Friday, April 22, 2022 9:31 AM
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Project at 125 15th Ave
 
Hi 
I heard from neighbors that there was a notification of a neighborhood meeting and
that the meeting already occurred.  Can you send me the plans that were distributed to
the other neighbors? 
I’m right behind this property.  I live at 
.
Thank you, 
Margaret Williams
Cell 
Best,
Maggie

--- page 110 ---
Margaret Williams 
Sent from my iPad
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together
with any attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to
which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and
prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is
strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the
original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this
message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.

--- page 111 ---
1
Linda Ly
From:
Robert Bruno 
Sent:
Thursday, December 8, 2022 3:41 PM
To:
Linda Ly; 
; Lauren Layne
Subject:
Re: Plan Number NIN-2022-034
Follow Up Flag:
Follow up
Flag Status:
Completed
 
Linda Ly, 
 
Good Day, 
 
Puzzled and disappointed in regards to the furthering of the project at 125 15th ave for demolition. What happened to 
the neighborhood concerns? 
  
There was strong to the point of unanimous opposition from the neighborhood in regards to the plan as presented. That 
phone meeting on April 7th was recorded so surely we can reference this recording.  We were told that our concerns 
would be discussed and neighbors would be brought in for further discussions.  We have heard nothing. No post card, 
no email notice, no snail mail notice. I did get the notices for Bucky’s bar renovation and several other neighborhood 
renovations.  
 
15th ave Neighbors since April have gotten together, awaiting further direction for us to comment. We have heard 
nothing but crickets as the weeds grew tall, for which some neighbors graciously would clean up and then the Raccoons 
several months ago moved into the crawl space of the house. 
 
To hear that you have had three site revisions, that no neighbors had in fact been notified to this fact and we are staring 
at a Demolition notice is unsettling and something I’m not willing to outright except.  You have my email and also gave 
my phone number which I gave back in April. 
 
Lily where do we go from Here? 
 
A side note the 141 15th remodel plan was given a glowing thumbs up by the neighborhood at that review. It’s this 125 
th ave that is the concern for all. 
 
My regards, 
Robert Bruno  
 
Sent from my iPad 
 
‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ 
From: Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Date: Wed, Dec 7, 2022 at 5:59 PM 
Subject: RE: Plan Number NIN‐2022‐034 
To: Lauren Layne (LLAYNE) 
 
Cc: Jason Fox

--- page 112 ---
1
Linda Ly
From:
Lauren Layne (LLAYNE) 
Sent:
Monday, December 19, 2022 2:02 PM
To:
Linda Ly
Cc:
Lauren Layne (LLAYNE); Robert Bruno; 
 aaron; Julia Klein
Subject:
Re: Plan Number NIN-2022-034
Follow Up Flag:
Follow up
Flag Status:
Completed
Hi Linda, 
 
Thanks for summarizing the comments.   
For the Parking comments please add:  
1) ensure the size of the one‐car garage is large enough to house a commonly‐sized car such as an SUV,  
2) street parking on 15th is already an issue and requires residential permits, alley parking is not permitted, and we 
strongly recommend they create a private parking spot for themselves next to the ADU/one‐car garage. 
 
Happy Holidays, 
Lauren 
 
On Thu, Dec 15, 2022 at 4:03 PM Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Hi Lauren, 
  
It was nice to meet you all yesterday. I’m glad you all felt the revisions were a major improvement. Before I speak with 
the applicant, I’d appreciate your help confirming my summary of the comments: 
  
1. Privacy Impacts – recommend high‐story or glazed windows along the left elevation (southwest). Relocate rear 
yard tree closer to home. 
  
2. Shadow Study – staff commented that this is not required and will be up to applicant to provide. The project 
complies with daylight plane requirements. 
  
3. Parking – staff commented that replacement parking is not required under State law (ADUs). However, 
neighbors commented that unwanted parking/idling in the alley can be an issue. The project should consider 
keeping the open area next to the garage as uncovered parking. The tree can be relocated closer to the home 
for privacy.

--- page 113 ---
2
Bruno – do you have the information of the neighbor (contractor) that would like to review the updated plans? I can 
reach out to them before the public comment period ends. 
  
Thank you all, 
Linda 
  
Linda Ly 李嘉歡 
Associate Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650‐522‐7217 | lly@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
 
  
From: Lauren Layne (LLAYNE) 
  
Sent: Thursday, December 15, 2022 10:25 AM 
To: Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Lauren Layne (LLAYNE) 
; Robert Bruno 
; 
 
aaron 
; Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: Plan Number NIN‐2022‐034 
  
Thank you again Linda for scheduling time with us yesterday to review the neighborhood concerns regarding the 125 
15th Avenue project.  
We appreciated you showing us the updated house plans, discussing the high level process, and addressing the sewer 
concerns and parking concerns as best the city can within state laws.  It was a pleasure speaking with you and the plans 
look much more satisfactory than what the architect and design team had presented back in April. 
  
Thank you for your efforts to work with the home owner & design team and with the neighbors.  I'm sure that isn't an 
easy role. 
  
Happy Holidays! 
Lauren Layne

--- page 114 ---
1
Linda Ly
From:
Michael Medwid 
Sent:
Monday, December 19, 2022 9:46 AM
To:
Linda Ly; Sonya
Subject:
Re: PA-2021-049 125 15th Ave, SAN MATEO
Follow Up Flag:
Follow up
Flag Status:
Flagged
Thank you for reaching out, Linda. I have not been able to see the revised plans and am not seeing them  
attached. The only attachments are San Mateo city logos. Robert told me there was a Zoom call on  
the project but I did not see the invite. 
My primary concerns have been: 
1) Architecture in line with the historical Hayward Park neighborhood which began in the 1920s. Most
homeowners have done a good job of keeping in the spirit of the design elements while expanding 
and modernizing the homes. But there have been a few monstrosities which are entirely out of  
character. The multi-story structure w plane facade that we saw in April was a far cry from the Spanish stucco 
cottages. The multi story behemoth at 117 15th Ave. is an example of dwarfing the surrounding  
houses and being vastly of step. The same can be said for the post modern at 125 16th. Ave. 
which is nearing completion. 
2) Our neighbors to the right of 125 - 
. invested in solar panels.
And we support their right to have those continue to collect solar energy and not be blocked by 
the proposed two story structure.  
3) We were concerned that the owner could not be troubled to show up to the April conference call.
It seemed odd and they left a college intern (or recent grag) to face the harder questions neighbors had of the 
project.  
4) Parking concerns over the ADU.
That's it briefly from memory. If you could try again to send the plans, I'd appreciate it. 
Best,  
Michael Medwid

--- page 115 ---
Linda Ly

From: Dianna Herrmann

Sent: Tuesday, December 20, 2022 7:57 AM

To: Linda Ly

Subject: Re: Project Plans PA21-049 (125 15th Ave.)
Hi Linda.

Thanks for sending the plans. Overall | think they look quite good. Thanks for ensuring the setbacks are being
observed.

My only comments:

1. The plans show an existing fence on the west side of the property to remain, and a proposed new retaining wall to be
constructed. | would like to understand a bit more about the retaining wall - height, length - and what will it look like on my
side of the property? Are they going to remove the fence, build the retaining wall, and then put the fence back?

2. The AC units are positioned just outside of our bedroom area - is there any plan for sound control?

3. Protecting my house during demolition and framing - the existing home is quite close to my house - including a sketchy
chimney. It would be great if the contractor can put tarps on the east side of my house during demolition and framing to
keep it clean. As you know, my house is recently finished - would be great if it can be protected.

Do you have any idea of potential construction timeline?

Thanks again,
Dianna

On Thursday, December 15, 2022 at 03:41:14 PM PST, Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:
Thanks, Laura. Moving you to BCC.
Dianna, | will be at City Hall tomorrow if you want to review the plans in person.

If you have any questions comments on the project, it would be great if you can provide them by Wednesday 12/21/22,
so that | can address it before | am out of office.

Thanks,

Linda


--- page 116 ---
Linda Ly #A&
Associate Planner | Community Development Department

330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403

~
e.)
pow
oa
Y

650-522-7217 | lly@cityofsanmateo.or

on OOCHOC

From: Laura Richstone <Irichstone@cityofsanmateo.org>

Sent: Thursday, December 15, 2022 3:06 PM
To:
Cec: = Z ————

Subject: Project Plans PA21-049 (125 15th Ave.)

Hi Dianna,

Attached, please find the proposed plans for 125 15" Ave. If you have further questions or comments
please reach out directly to Linda Ly (cc'd here). She is the assigned project planner processing this
application.

Thank you,

Laura Richstone

Associate Planner | Community Development Department
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403

650-522-7205 | lrichstone@cityofsanmateo.org

eocko

-
nit
aipor

* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended only for the
use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from
disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this message
or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the original sender
immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer.
Thank you.


--- page 117 ---
From: david bower 
 
Sent: Wednesday, December 21, 2022 10:57 AM 
To: Robert Bruno 
 
Cc: Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
 aaron 
 
Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lauren Layne 
 Michael Medwid 
 
Subject: Re: Plan Number NIN‐2022‐034 
 
Hi Linda, 
I'm writing to express my reservations about the proposed development at 125 15th Avenue, San 
Mateo, CA 94402, (Plan Number NIN‐2022‐034).  I am a retired residential building contractor with 
extensive experience in plan review and execution in the mid‐Peninsula. 
 
First, I do share my neighbors' concerns about adequate parking and building mass and context as 
expressed in the emails above.  After looking closely at the plan set, I have the following additional 
observations: 
 
1. Building Height:  The building as proposed will be 9'‐1" taller than the adjacent building at 121 15th 
Avenue and 8'‐0" taller than the adjacent one at 129 15th Avenue.  The height of the proposed building 
is driven by the 10'‐0" first floor plate height and the 9'‐0" second floor plate height.  The existing 
neighborhood  buildings (constructed in the early 1900s) typically have an 8'‐6" first floor plate height.  
Second floor additions to these houses probably have 8'‐0" plate heights.  In addition, the plans 
dimension the space between floors as 16".  Modification of these dimensions, as follows, can achieve a 
significant reduction in overall building height, and seems reasonable, given their outsized nature.  
Reducing the first floor plate height to 8'‐6", using 11 7/8" second floor truss joists, and reducing the 
second floor plate height to 7'‐9" (with the use of roof trusses that vault the second floor ceilings) could 
reduce the overall building height by approximately 3'‐1".  A 7'‐9" second floor plate height still allows  
4"x12" window headers (although the width of the proposed windows does not require a header that 
large).  Roof trusses use higher quality lumber, can be installed in far less time than conventional stick 
framing and have a lower total cost.  In my own business, I used this type of roof construction on all 
projects starting in the early 2000s.  These simple height changes can reduce the mass of the new 
building while also reducing construction costs without compromising the architecture. 
 
2.  Photovoltaic Array:  There is an existing photovoltaic array on the roof of the building at 129 15th 
Avenue.  On December 16th, 2022, I  took the attached photo of the shadow line of the existing building 
at 125 15th Avenue.  The existing building parapet at 125 15th Avenue is approximately 10'‐0" above 
grade on the right (northeast) side.  As the attached photo shows, the existing building casts a shadow 
at the gutter line on the building at 129 15th Avenue.   The proposed building at 125 15th Avenue will be 
approximately 15'‐9" taller than the existing building.  That added height will effectively shade the 
existing photovoltaic array at 129 15th Avenue for a significant portion of the year.  To encourage 
homeowners and businesses to install point‐of‐use electric generating equipment on buildings, the State 
and Federal governments have subsidized the installation costs.  To allow the proposed building at 125 
15th Avenue to be constructed as currently proposed would significantly reduce future electric 
production at 129 15th Avenue at a time when our community needs to increase electricity production,

--- page 118 ---
not reduce it.  A sun study should be conducted to determine the impact of the proposed building prior 
to any planning approval.   
 
3. Removal of tree #4:  Tree #4 is identified in the arborist report as a 21" Heritage Oak.  It is located on 
the left setback line at the rear of 125 15th Avenue.  The proposed ADU location requires the removal of 
this tree.  The tree is described as in "fair" condition with slight thinning in various places.  Removing a 
Heritage tree of this size should not be allowed when other options are available. As the ADU would be a 
new building, it could easily be located on the northeast side of the property by flipping the floorplan.  I 
would strongly oppose removing tree #4 when other placement options are available for the ADU. 
 
My professional experience has made me very familiar with the stress new development poses for both 
the developer and surrounding property owners, so I am very mindful of the importance of considering 
these issues carefully.  Thus, my neighbors and I raise these points about the impact of the proposed 
development at 125 15th Avenue only because they are significant.  Creative architecture, sensitive 
massing, scaling and location of the new buildings can make a very important positive difference in the 
lives of all of us who own property in the neighborhood. 
David 
 
 
David Bower

--- page 119 ---
ay,
o
if



--- page 120 ---
1
Linda Ly
From:
Robert Bruno 
Sent:
Wednesday, December 21, 2022 7:39 AM
To:
Linda Ly
Cc:
; aaron; Julia Klein; Lauren Layne; David Bower; Michael Medwid
Subject:
Re: Plan Number NIN-2022-034
 
 
Linda, 
 
Good morning, 
 
A recap to date of my thoughts. 
 
The historical nature of Hayward Park has been documented in books and other publications.  Myself and I suspect 
many others this was the reason they chose to make Hayward Park their home in San Mateo. It’s also the reason our 
property values have remained strong.  Also that a wonderful strong sense of community has been established dating 
back to my Grammar school days when I had classmates living here in the Hayward Park. Eventually only finding myself 
living here my entire adult life.  
 
The reason for so much angst in the neighborhood  is that a developer is not trying to build like for like. A one story 
single family home with another one story single family home, but rather a two story development with Ada on a small 
40 by 125 lot size. Don’t believe anyone including myself have had objections with remodels on this ave when it was like 
for like.  This project is a game changer to the look, feel and integrity of the block which in the end warrants special 
attention. Thank you for giving it that attention. 
 
Sometimes architects plans, well meaning don’t translate from draft to paper renderings to the everyday reality of the 
project and the real life impact on surrounding neighbors. I would be more then Happy to set a date and time to walk 
around the neighborhood with you and or any city official to point out  the problems we are dealing with regarding to 
buildouts not vented to their full and proper conclusion.  
 
Street trees.  
Currently there are two trees in the mow strip ( area between the curb and sidewalk).I would like to see these or other 
suitable variety of tree remain. It is in keeping with this end of the block. And provides benefits to neighborhood and to 
the development. 
 
Parking 
Is anyone aware that approximately one third of the homes on do not have driveways? 
This feature is the original design to the neighborhood. This property under development presently doesn’t have a 
driveway. Take into account development is now being planned larger encouraging more occupants that original, where 
are their cars going to go? Project doesn’t plan on a two car garage. Why not? Others have included two car garages in 
remodels. In addition the dance that is done every garbage day by requiring we place our waste cans on the street for 
pick‐up has become limiting and problematic for the neighborhood. You just can’t plan this but as I’m writing this,  I’m 
currently hearing the garbage man cussing out loud as his is negotiating the maze of the green recycle cart for pick‐up. 
Waiting to hear my car get slammed next. This project will have many cans given size and the additional Ada.    
   
801.5 solar easement

--- page 121 ---
2
Would not an agreement be in place before project gets approved?  Why approve a project only to have problem with 
easement after the fact? 
Original working Fire place.  
129 15th which is in its original state has a working fireplace. Building a two story structure next to it will change their 
down draft to that chimney, possibly rending that feature of the house unusable. Has that been taken into consideration 
on this project?  
Privacy and line of real sight concern. 
The skyline and neighbor appeal would negatively be impacted with a two story construction where one never existed. 
This is a Street of one story homes.  
Foliage and 7 1/2 high fences for privacy and security really are not much help or effective in itself. I have both on my 
property.  
I can show you real life failures with these options on my own property. My house has not changed its floor plan or 
structure since it was build in 1923 and we are talking about a one story structure sandwiched between two other one 
story structures. Thank god I have wonderful and understanding neighbors.  You can imagine the privacy issues for 
homes on either side of this proposed project as they are one story homes sandwiched between a two story structure. 
Which begs to reason why at all? 
Current revised plans. 
Linda you had done a lot of positive work to this point with the revised plans you have shared. Much better then where 
it started . Believe there is still more to be done to make this a successful project for all. Again willing to met and have a 
walk about the neighborhood and the proposed project site for further insight.   
Please enjoy your holiday break. 
Bruno 
Sent from my iPad

--- page 122 ---
Linda Ly

From: aaron

Sent: Friday, December 23, 2022 9:27 AM

To: Linda Ly

Ce: Julia Klein; Michael Medwid; David Bower; Lauren Layne Robert Bruno
Subject: RE: 125 15th Ave. & Solar

Hello Linda,

We have nothing in writting with the previous owners of 125 about a 'solar easement', as we are under the impression
CA laws protect our access to sunlight as we personally invest in the concept of reducing California's reliance on fossil
fuels.

We are basing our understanding of this protection with the following:
https://california.public.law/codes/ca_civ_code section 801.5

Thanks,

Aaron Campbell

-------Original Message-------

From: Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org>
To: aaron

Cc: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: RE: 125 15th Ave. questions

Sent: 2022-12-22 15:45

Hi Aaron,

Thanks for providing this. We are still reviewing the state laws that have been raised.

Regarding the solar easement, can you confirm if one was established with the previous neighbors when you had
installed the solar panels? If there was one established, do you have documentation?

Thanks,

Linda


--- page 123 ---
2
  
Linda Ly ??? 
Associate Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403 
650‐522‐7217 | lly@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
m
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
m
 
m
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
m
 
 
 
  
 
 m
 
 
 
m
 
 
 
 
V
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 m
 
 
 m
 
m
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
m
 
 
 
  
 
 
m
 
 
 
m
 
m
 
 
 
V
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
From: aaron 
 
Sent: Thursday, December 22, 2022 2:24 PM 
To: Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: RE: 125 15th Ave. questions 
  
 Hello again Linda, 
  
I took some measurements and photos at 1:55 pm today. 
  
In the drawing, the green bold lines are roughly where my Solar panels are located. The red shaded area shows the 
shadow line of the proposed building at 2PM today. You can see that is well beyond the CA Code of no more than 
10% covered by shade. 
  
The photo is from ontop of my roof at 1:55 pm. You can see my chimney (which is lower than the proposed structure, 
but yes closer too) casts a shadow that would nearly cover my solar panels if it were as wide as a house. 
  
Thank you again for your time on this matter. 
  
Aaron Campbell 
  
 
 m
 
 
 
  
 
 m
 
 
 m
 
m
 
 
 V

--- page 124 ---
-------Original Message-------

From: Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org>
To: aaron
Cc: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: RE: 125 15th Ave. questions

Sent: 2022-12-21 17:18

Hi Aaron,

Here are the plans attached. If you can prepare a draft shadow study, that would be helpful.

Thanks,

Linda

Linda Ly ???
Associate Planner | Community Development Department

330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403

650-522-7217 | |ly@cityofsanmateo.org

es es) es Fe Fe

From: aaron

Sent: Wednesday, December 21, 2022 3:08 PM
To: Linda Ly <Ily@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: RE: 125 15th Ave. questions

Hello Linda,

Again, thank you for all the time and genuine concern for this project and how it will effect our community.


--- page 125 ---
| do not have the Solar eval readily available, but at 2:10pm today | took some photos of neighboring homes
where we have a larger home next to a smaller home. Both images attached are from 15th Ave (one is actually
the shadow onto 125).

You can see there are major shadow concerns when a larger house is a neighbor. | do not have a readable copy of
125's plans, so | don't know exact hights, but | could play with a shadow study if something is provided.

Thanks again,

Aaron Campbell

-------Original Message-------

From: Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org>
To: aaron

Subject: RE: 125 15th Ave. questions
Sent: 2022-12-21 14:25

Hi Aaron,

One more question. Did the solar company provide you any solar analysis report prior to installing the panels?
If yes, do you mind sharing that with me by email?

Thanks,

Linda

Linda Ly ???
Associate Planner | Community Development Department

330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403

650-522-7217 | lly@cityofsanmateo.org


--- page 126 ---
home next to a smaller house.

yn.... larger



--- page 127 ---
— 125



--- page 128 ---
Linda Ly

From: aaron

Sent: Monday, January 9, 2023 5:32 PM
To: Linda Ly; Robert Bruno

Ce: Julia Klein

Subject: Re: 125 15th Ave - Continued
Linda,

Thank you Linda, you have been very helpful in this process. The overall feeling is that San Mateo is approving builds
without putting in enough thought. Aside from privacy & shading of solar issues due to constructing homes that are too
big for our small lots (25 x 100), there is also the 100 year old infrustructure (sewer lines to current available parking)
that can't support such fast unchecked growth.

What would be our next step as San Mateo citizens, (even if it's too late for 125 plans) to have the city think twice about
overbuilding these older historical parts of the city?

Thank you,

Aaron Campbell

-------Original Message-------
From: Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: 125 15th Ave - Continued
Sent: 2023-01-09 17:11

Hello — sorry Zoom kicked us off. Here’s a Teams invite if you’d like to continue.

Thanks,

Linda

Microsoft Teams meeting
Join on your computer, mobile app or room device

Click here to join the meeting


--- page 129 ---
1
Linda Ly
From:
aaron 
Sent:
Tuesday, January 10, 2023 4:02 PM
To:
Julia Klein
Cc:
Linda Ly
Subject:
Commending Linda Ly
Follow Up Flag:
Follow up
Flag Status:
Flagged
Hello Julia, 
  
We met over Zoom yesterday. 
  
I wanted to commend Linda Ly's efforts and professionalism with our conversations pertaining to 125 15th Ave. She 
handles all of our concerns (complaints) like a true champ. Always staying calm, polite, helpful, and seems to genuinely 
care. I don't necesarilly agree with the approval of every detail of the current plans of 125, but Linda explained 
everything well and went above and beyond to help us out. 
  
Thank you, 
  
Aaron Campbell

--- page 130 ---
125 15th Avenue, San Mateo
Coast Live Oak
March 21, 2023
March 21, 2023
Mike Danao
1116 South El Camino Real
San Mateo, CA 94402
 
 codominant stems: stems of nearly equal diameter arising from a common junction and 
1
lacking a normal branch union.
 Reduced vigor, damage, dieback, or pest problems, at least one significant structural problem 
2
or multiple moderate defects requiring treatment. Major asymmetry or deviation from the 
species normal habit, function and aesthetics compromised.
Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC - P.O Box 1010, Felton, CA 95018
831.331.8982 - rick@monarcharborist.com
Page  of 
1
4

--- page 131 ---
125 15th Avenue, San Mateo
Coast Live Oak
March 21, 2023
In conclusion the tree is in fair condition with fair to poor suitability for preservation. The tree 
will never have a natural form as long as its being sheared on the southwest side, and the 
codominant stem architecture will always exist even with some mitigation (cabling and further 
pruning and disfigurement). Under any development setting on the site the tree will likely be 
highly impacted based on its location. 

Richard J. Gessner,
ASCA Registered Consulting Arborist® #496
ISA Board Certified Master Arborist® WE-4341B
Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC - P.O Box 1010, Felton, CA 95018
831.331.8982 - rick@monarcharborist.com
Page  of 
2
4

--- page 132 ---
125 15th Avenue, San Mateo
Coast Live Oak
March 21, 2023
Appendix A: Photographs 

Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC - P.O Box 1010, Felton, CA 95018
831.331.8982 - rick@monarcharborist.com
Page  of 
3
4
TREE LOCATION WITH SHEERED AND ASYMMETRIC CROWN

--- page 133 ---
125 15th Avenue, San Mateo
Coast Live Oak
March 21, 2023
Monarch Consulting Arborists LLC - P.O Box 1010, Felton, CA 95018
831.331.8982 - rick@monarcharborist.com
Page  of 
4
4
COAST LIVE OAK WITH CODOMINANT STEMS AND HOLE IN CROWN

--- page 134 ---
From: Kara Cox 
  
Sent: Monday, April 10, 2023 7:17 PM 
To: Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Manira Sandhir <msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org>; Ashley Snodgrass 
<asnodgrass@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: PA-2021-049 
 
Here are my comments: 
 
While I believe it would be preferred for the owner to incorporate as many design features and height 
changes the neighborhood has outlined into their final product, I do support the outline of project PA-
2021-049. Ideally, the heritage tree could be saved. Solar panels are worth preserving if at all possible. 
Yet, when the current home located at 125 15th Ave was constructed in San Mateo, in 1924, land was 
plentiful and houses, overwhelmingly, were small. The streets were wide enough to accommodate 
horses, as the cars were relatively new. Women were newly minted voters. 
The idea that everything should change in 100 years except the footprint of a house is unrealistic. Cities 
must develop more densely as buildings are replaced. This is as natural as it is inevitable. 
Change is necessary if neighborhoods are to create space in our area for new homes, which are 
desperately needed. It is with my deepest sympathies that, in this case, such necessary evolution will 
infringe on the comfort and personal preferences of particular individuals. However, it is not to the good 
of society that we replace an obsolete building in the mold of an obsolete concept. 
 
Kara Cox

--- page 135 ---
125 15th Avenue
Appeal of a New Single-Family Residence
(PA-2021-049)
Planning Commission Public Hearing
April 11, 2023
Linda Ly, Associate Planner
Community Development Department

--- page 136 ---
125 15th Avenue
Appeal of a New Single-Family Residence
(PA-2021-049)
Planning Commission Public Hearing
April 11, 2023
Linda Ly, Associate Planner
Community Development Department

--- page 137 ---
PROJECT BACKGROUND
3
• July 8 – 15, 2021
• Applicant hosts Neighborhood Information Meeting #1 and submits Planning Application (PA)
• April 7, 2022
• Neighborhood Information Meeting #2 due to substantial change in scope
• December 9 – 19, 2022
• Public Notice and Public Comment Period
• January 20, 2023
• Zoning Administrator issues approval of the project
• January 30, 2023
• Appeal is filed by David Bower (Appellant)

--- page 138 ---
Project Site
PROJECT SITE
•
1 Parcel (5,000 sq. ft.)
•
Existing Residence
•
1,250 sq. ft. 
•
One-story
•
Mission Revival
•
Protected Trees: 
•
One 21-inch coast live oak
•
Two Street trees
•
General Plan Land Use – Single Family
•
Zoning District – R1-C
4

--- page 139 ---
5
PROJECT SITE
•
1 Parcel (5,000 sq. ft.)
•
Existing Residence
•
1,250 sq. ft. 
•
One-story
•
Mission Revival
•
Protected Trees: 
•
One 21-inch coast live oak
•
Two Street trees
•
General Plan Land Use – Single Family
•
Zoning District – R1-C

--- page 140 ---
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Existing
Proposed
6
Source: Zillow

--- page 141 ---
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
7
• Special Use Permit for full demolition of 
existing residence
• Single-Family Dwelling Design Review
for the proposed residence:
•
2,238 sq. ft. 
•
Two stories
•
582 sq. ft. ADU
with one-car garage
• Removal of one Protected tree to 
construct an ADU

--- page 142 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
8
• General Plan Land Use – Single Family
• R1-C (One Family Dwellings)
• Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines
• Housing Accountability Act (HAA)
Proposed
Maximum
Floor Area Ratio
0.49*
0.5
Square Footage
2,437 sq. ft.*
2,500 sq. ft.
Building Height
25’-9” 
32’
Units
1 + ADU
1 + ADU + JADU
Setbacks
Proposed
Minimum
Front
16’-7”
15’
Front (Garage)
102’-4”
20’
Left Side
5’
5’
Right Side
5’
5’
Rear
57’-5” 
15’
*Floor Area Ratio and Square Footage exclude ADU sq. ft. per Zoning Code

--- page 143 ---
500 feet
PUBLIC COMMENTS
• 12 public comments received, 
focused on the following:
• Initial project design
• Loss of off-street parking
• Concerns for privacy and shadows
• Zoning Administrator decision to 
conditionally approve the project, 
following applicant’s agreement to 
increased privacy measures
9

--- page 144 ---
REASONS FOR APPEAL
1.
Removal of a Protected Tree
2.
Consistency with the Single-Family 
Dwelling Design Guidelines
3.
Potential Shading of Adjacent 
Photovoltaic Array
10

--- page 145 ---
REASONS FOR APPEAL
1.
Removal of a Protected Tree
2.
Consistency with the Single-Family 
Dwelling Design Guidelines
3.
Potential Shading of Adjacent 
Photovoltaic Array
11
Protected Tree Removal
•
21-inch Coast Live Oak tree proposed for removal
•
Project Arborist noted as “fair” condition
•
Proposed tree replanting
•
ADU State Law
Source: Zillow

--- page 146 ---
REASONS FOR APPEAL
1.
Removal of a Protected Tree
2.
Consistency with the Single-Family 
Dwelling Design Guidelines
3.
Potential Shading of Adjacent 
Photovoltaic Array
12
Protected Tree Removal
•
21-inch Coast Live Oak tree proposed for removal
•
Project Arborist noted as “fair” condition
•
Proposed tree replanting
•
ADU State Law

--- page 147 ---
REASONS FOR APPEAL
1.
Removal of a Protected Tree
2.
Consistency with the Single-Family 
Dwelling Design Guidelines
3.
Potential Shading of Adjacent 
Photovoltaic Array
13
Design Review
•
Neighborhood Scale – Building Height
•
Privacy and View Impacts
121 15th Ave
153 15th Ave
127 15th Ave

--- page 148 ---
REASONS FOR APPEAL
1.
Removal of a Protected Tree
2.
Consistency with the Single-Family 
Dwelling Design Guidelines
3.
Potential Shading of Adjacent 
Photovoltaic Array
14
Design Review
•
Neighborhood Scale – Building Height
•
Privacy and View Impacts

--- page 149 ---
REASONS FOR APPEAL
Potential Shading of the Photovoltaic Array
•
Zoning Code and General Plan Policies
•
State Laws
•
Shadow Study
15
Project Site
Existing Solar System
1.
Removal of a Protected Tree
2.
Consistency with the Single-Family 
Dwelling Design Guidelines
3.
Potential Shading of Adjacent 
Photovoltaic Array

--- page 150 ---
REASONS FOR APPEAL
Potential Shading of the Photovoltaic Array
•
Zoning Code and General Plan Policies
•
State Laws
•
Shadow Study
16
June 21
March/September 21
December 21
3:00pm
1.
Removal of a Protected Tree
2.
Consistency with the Single-Family 
Dwelling Design Guidelines
3.
Potential Shading of Adjacent 
Photovoltaic Array

--- page 151 ---
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION
• California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
• Categorically exempt 
• Class 1 Section 15301(l)(1)
• Demolition and removal of one single-family residence
• Class 3 Section 15303(a)
• New construction of one single-family residence
17

--- page 152 ---
RECOMMENDATION
Adopt a Resolution to deny the appeal of the Zoning Administrator's 
decision to approve the Special Use Permit (SUP) for demolition of an 
existing single-family residence, and the Single-Family Dwelling Design 
Review (SFDDR) for construction of a new 2,238 square-foot, two-story 
single-family residence, with a detached one-car garage and accessory 
dwelling unit (ADU) located at 125 15th Avenue based on the findings 
and subject to the conditions of approval.
18

--- page 153 ---
Thank You
Linda Ly, Associate Planner
Community Development Department
LLy@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7212
19

--- page 154 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Commission Meeting
April 11, 2023
Proposed Development of
125 15th Ave, San Mateo
--Appeal of Project Approval--
David Bower

--- page 155 ---
Topics 
1. Adherence to General Plan Design Guidelines
2. Heritage Tree Preservation 
3. Climate Change and Sustainability

--- page 156 ---
1. Adherence to General Plan Design Guidelines

--- page 157 ---
II. Neighborhood Character
From: Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines, City of San Mateo, page 6

--- page 158 ---
IV. Elements of Design
2) Neighborhood Scale
Guideline:
Observe the scale of houses in the neighborhood to determine if there is a common 
size or shape to houses in the neighborhood.  If a common size or shape exists, 
respect the scale of the neighborhood through building sizes and shape compatible 
with the houses in the neighborhood.
From: Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines, City of San Mateo, page 14

--- page 159 ---
IV. Elements of Design
3) Second-Story Additions
C. Lowering Eave Line. Lowering the eave line of a second-story roof can add to its 
compatibility with single-story neighbors.  Lowering the eave line ties the two stories to a 
house height common to many San Mateo neighborhoods.  Setting second-story additions 
back into the area of roof lines is often a solution for meeting Daylight Plane requirements 
and it generally will lower the apparent height of the home.  Lowering the eave line of the 
second story roof can also reduce the apparent building mass, which may result in the scale of 
the building being more compatible with its neighborhood.  Evaluate the proposed second-
story addition:
▪Is there an existing pattern of single-story or full two-story homes in the neighborhood?
▪Would the proposed second-story create wall heights that are compatible with or different 
from the pattern of homes in the neighborhood?
▪What would be the effect of altering the pattern?
From: Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines, City of San Mateo, page 19

--- page 160 ---
IV. Elements of Design
3) Second-Story Additions
C. Lowering Eave Line.  Lowering the eave line of a second-story roof can add to its 
compatibility with single-story neighbors.  Lowering the eave line ties the two stories to a 
house height common to many San Mateo neighborhoods.  Setting second-story additions 
back into the area of roof lines is often a solution for meeting Daylight Plane requirements 
and it generally will lower the apparent height of the home.  Lowering the eave line of the 
second story roof can also reduce the apparent building mass, which may result in the scale 
of the building being more compatible with its neighborhood.  Evaluate the proposed 
second-story addition:
▪Is there an existing pattern of single-story or full two-story homes in the neighborhood?
▪Would the proposed second-story create wall heights that are compatible with or different 
from the pattern of homes in the neighborhood?
▪What would be the effect of altering the pattern?
From: Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines, City of San Mateo, page 19

--- page 161 ---
IV. Elements of Design
3) Second-Story Additions
C. Lowering Eave Line.  Lowering the eave line of a second-story roof can add to its 
compatibility with single-story neighbors.  Lowering the eave line ties the two stories to a 
house height common to many San Mateo neighborhoods.  Setting second-story additions 
back into the area of roof lines is often a solution for meeting Daylight Plane requirements 
and it generally will lower the apparent height of the home.  Lowering the eave line of the 
second story roof can also reduce the apparent building mass, which may result in the scale of 
the building being more compatible with its neighborhood.  Evaluate the proposed second-
story addition:
▪Is there an existing pattern of single-story or full two-story homes in the neighborhood?
▪Would the proposed second-story create wall heights that are compatible with or 
different from the pattern of homes in the neighborhood?
▪What would be the effect of altering the pattern?
From: Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines, City of San Mateo, page 19

--- page 162 ---
IV. Elements of Design
3) Second-Story Additions
A. Second-Story Setbacks. Stepping back second-story additions from the side and rear 
property lines increases available light into neighboring properties.
▪How would the proposed second-story affect daylight entering neighboring properties?
▪Is the placement of the proposed second-story held back from property lines to meet 
daylight plan requirements and maximize light into neighboring properties?
From: Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines, City of San Mateo, page 17

--- page 163 ---
IV. Elements of Design
3) Second-Story Additions
From: Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines, City of San Mateo, page 18
B. Location Over the House. A second-story over a portion of a house will visually 
emphasize that area of the home.  Placing the second-story over the living areas will 
emphasize the human or habitable area of the home, whereas over the garage, it will 
emphasize the automobile or storage areas of the home.  Also, on most homes a second-story 
over the garage will appear out of balance.  Evaluate the proposed second-story addition:
▪Could the proposed second-story addition be feasably located over the living areas of the 
house instead of only over the garage?
▪Does the placement of the proposed second-story addition appear in balance with the 
home and with the neighboring homes?

--- page 164 ---
2. Heritage Tree Preservation

--- page 165 ---
vs )



--- page 166 ---
Approved Building Layout
125 15" Avenue

Approved



--- page 167 ---
Alternative Building Layout to Save Heritage Oak
125 15th Avenue
Approved
Alternate

--- page 168 ---
3. Climate Change and Sustainability

--- page 169 ---
V. Urban Design
D. Design
From: City of San Mateo General Plan, V. Urban Design Element, page V.10
Sustainable Design
Since many goals and policies of the General Plan promote San Mateo as a 
sustainable city, it is important to recognize that site layout and the design of 
buildings are major factors in meeting the objectives of sustainable design.  
Sustainability starts in the early design stages of a development.  The location 
and orientation of structures on a parcel are critical in order to take full 
advantage of solar opportunities and shading, and preserve natural resources …

--- page 170 ---
Renewable Energy.  Increase new annual 
installation of solar or renewable energy 
systems consistent with the Climate Action 
Plan

--- page 171 ---
Photovoltaic Permits and Valuation, 2010-2022
City of San Mateo
Year
# Permits
Total Valuation
Kilowatts
2010-2014
203
$3,648,799
1,285.36
2015-2019
1,108
$25,546,269
8,8087.16
2020-2022*
878
$59,363,699
10,808.00
2189
$88,558,767
20,180.52
From: City of San Mateo Records Request for Total Number of Permitted Photovoltaic Systems, 
January 30, 2023 
*For 2021, data complete only for January through June

--- page 172 ---
Shade study
September 21st



--- page 173 ---
Shade study
December 21st



--- page 174 ---
Shade Study
March 21st



--- page 175 ---
Shade Study
June 21st



--- page 176 ---
Jan
Feb
Mar
Apr
May
Jun
Jul
Aug
Sep
Oct
Nov
Dec
Annual 
Totals
PG&E Cost without solar*
$ 171 $ 159 $ 135 $ 122 $ 113 $  105 $    91 $ 128 $ 129 $ 134 $151 $ 239 $ 1,677 
Electric cost with Solar**
$    65 $   26 $ (24) $ (69) $ (94) $(103) $(119) $ (79) $ (60) $ (25) $   33 $ 122 $       82 
Net savings 
$ 106 $ 133 $ 159 $ 191 $ 207 $  208 $  210 $ 207 $ 189 $ 159 $118 $ 117 
Projected Lost Revenue Sep 
to Mar ***
$ 106 $ 133 $ 159 
$ 189 $ 159 $118 $ 117 $    981 
*     Actual cost used to design system array
**   Estimated system production savings 
*** Lost revenue from approved building proposal at 125 15th Avenue
Estimated Annual Electric Consumption and 
Production, With and Without Solar
129 15th Avenue, San Mateo

--- page 177 ---
Summary
This project
o doesn’t conform to either the immediate or neighborhood context 
o doesn’t conform to the scale and massing of existing buildings
o doesn’t conform to recommendations to lower 2 story buildings to reduce wall heights
o alters the existing pattern of single-story homes in the neighborhood
o seriously blocks existing daylight to 129 15thAve
o is out of balance with adjacent homes (75% and 54% taller than its neighbors)
o requires removal of a heritage tree that could easily be avoided
o reverses the General Plan’s Sustainability initiatives
o sets a damaging precedent that jeopardizes the economic viability of approx. 2200   
property owners who together have spent > $88mil installing photovoltaic systems
o and directly costs my neighbors at 129 15thAve increased energy costs in perpetuity
Fortunately, these concerns can be eliminated with relatively modest design changes.