source: packet.pdf
sha256: 2931099d69661ce7bcb6318d9c3b6425f159af0c39a28166e8930301aefd8182
pages: 240
ocr_pages: 239
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Audit Committee
January 21, 2025
5:30 PM
City Hall, Conference Room C
330 W. 20  Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMITTEE MEMBERS
Rob Newsom, Jr., Mayor
Adam Loraine, Deputy Mayor
AGENDA
 
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
NEW BUSINESS
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of this item.
1.
Annual Comprehensive Finance Report – Fiscal Year 2023-24
Review, provide comments, and recommend City Council acceptance of the Annual Comprehensive Financial
Report for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this
meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting
will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
th
1 of 240

--- page 2 ---
City of San Mateo

San Mateo, California

Annual Comprehensive Financial Report

For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Prepared by
Finance Department

2 of 240


--- page 3 ---


--- page 4 ---
City of San Mateo
Annual Comprehensive Financial Report
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Table of Contents

INTRODUCTORY SECTION (Unaudited)

Table of Contents 00... cee eeeeseesecsesseeseeseeseeseceseesessecseeseesecseeseeaceaceassesaeseessesseeaeeaeeaeeaseesesseeaeeaseaeeees
Letter of Transmittal..........csssssiassarceswassmsacsresmarn omens esaea es reusreees cm asrsermemns reams caer Bees...
Directory of City Officials ......ccccceeceeeecsecsseeesessessessecececseesscsessecsecsessessesseeeesecaasasesssssbecseeeeseeeeeeees
Map of City’s Location .... wassnsssscscunmerccermennncnerserrummnaranusemmandlggevage acre gings.---------
Organizational Chart 0.0.0... ccescscessesseeeccsseeseceseeseeseeseessesseeseessecseeaeeseeaeeaeesacdbecseeseecaesseesaeeneesaeeeeeeaeraee
GFOA Certificate of Excellence in Financial Reporting............:esesteeeceeeceseeseeecebacceteesecseeseeeeeeesesseesaes

FINANCIAL SECTION

Independent Auditors’ Report ............ ccc tice cseesecesecsscssessecseeeseeseesseesecssccsecseeesecseseeesaeseeeeaeeeeseaesaes

Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited)
Basic Financial Statements:

Government-Wide Financial Statements:

Statement of Net Position.......cccccccccccccssesssscccecccesessssccccccccseesssncececececseeesnseeeeeeceeeesssseeeeeeeeeees
Statement Of ACtIVILICS ......ieeeeeccsccceeccesssssscccccecceesssssscceceseceessssssssseceeceessssssseesceeeeetsaaseeeesseenens

Fund Financial Statements:
Governmental Funds Financial Statements:

Balance Sheet.........cccccccssccccccccssssssscccccccccssssessssccececceesssnseeeecccesesestaseeeceeseesessusseeeeeeseeesaans

Reconciliation of the Governmental Funds Balance Sheet

to the Government-Wide Statement of Net Position... cece ccceeseeeessssessseseeeeees
Statement of Revenues, Expenditures, and Changes in Fund Balances ..............c:ccseee

Reconciliation of the Governmental Funds Statement of Revenues,
Expenditures, and Changes in Fund Balances to the Government-Wide

Statement of Activities and Changes in Net Position..........ccccccsceessessseeseeesseeeeeeeneeeees

Proprietary Funds Financial Statements:

Statement Of Net Position ........ccceccesscssscssseessecsscescescessesseesseeceseceseesseesesesessseseseseessesengs
Statement of Revenues, Expenses and Changes in Net Position ..........ccsccessessseesteesteeeees
Statement Of Cash FIOWS .......:.ccccccssscssscesscesseessecssscesscesecessesseecseecesecesseeseceseessesenssseseeeeses

Fiduciary Funds Financial Statements:

Statement of Fiduciary Net Position ...........:ccsccsssesssssssssessestecssecsseceseeesseceseeeseeeseeesssenssenges
Statement of Changes in Fiduciary Net Position .........c.ccccssssssssssssessseessceeeesseeseeesrsenseeenes

Notes to the Basic Financial Statements 2.0.0.0... cc cccccccccccccccccececececesecesecssceseeeseeseseseseess

4 of 240


--- page 5 ---
City of San Mateo
Annual Comprehensive Financial Report
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Table of Contents (Continued)

Page
FINANCIAL SECTION (Continued)
Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited):
Budgetary Information .........ccccccesccssccesscsseeessecssecsseceseeeseeeseesscecseeceaeceseceseeeseeeseesaeceecessenseeeseeeseeceaeseseenseenseeess 127
Budgetary Comparison Schedules:

General Fund ...... .ssssssessssaversonaenes nacsnsserermenaenesanacees canciesn encave teasereaggg fons MQ BTTETL cece ce ceeceseeeeeeees 128
Schedule of Changes in the Net Pension Liability and Related Ratios... ccceeccceceesceseeeceeeneeneeeeaeeaeeaeeees 130
Schedules of Contributions - Pension ............ccccescescesseceseeeeseceseeeseeeeeeetecsdaceseceaeeceeeceseceaeeestecssecesseesseessseseessees 132
Schedule of Changes in Total OPEB Liability and Related RatiOs ........cle ieee ececesesscneceesseeeeaesseeeeeeeeees 134
Schedule of Contributions — OPEB .00.......ecescsceesceseeeseesaudeesseeneuscestecsecesccseeesessececesecseeeseesaceseeseceeeesseseeeseeseens 135

Supplementary Information:
Non-Major Governmental Funds:
Combining Balance Sheet .....iccccccccsecessesscessseessceseeessecsseesseceseceseeeseecaecsseeeseeseeeeeeceseceeeeeeseeeseeeseeseneeaaes 140
Combining Statement of Revenues, Expenditures and Changes
IM Fund Balances........eceececcesceeceesceseeeceeseccceseeseceaeesecsceaecsceeseesceseeseeeaeeseceeeeaeseeesesseeeaesseseaeeaeseeeeseeaees 145
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures and Changes in
Fund Balances — Budget and Actual Schedules:
Police Grants Special Reventie Fund .........ccccccecccssccsseeseeeseceseeeseeensecesecesecesecsseesscecsaecnseeeeesseesteeeseenss 150
Community Development Block Grant Special Revenue Fund .............:ccceeseeseeeceeceeeeeeseeeeeeeeeseeeseeaes 151
HOME Special Revenue Fund... ce ccecceccccsessseeseeesceeseecesecesecnseeeseeeseecececeeecsseeeseesseeeseeseaeseseseeeeseeess 152
City Housing Special Revenue Fund .........cccccccccscceseesseesseeeseceseceseecsceeeeecseeceseceseceseeeeeseeeenseenseenseeaes 153
Low and Moderate Income Housing Special Revenue Fund... ccceeccceseeseceseeesseesseeeseeeeeeeenseeeaes 154
Permanent Local Housing Allocation Special Revenue Fund ..........ccceeceeeseeeseeeneceteeeneceteeeeeeenseeeseenes 155
Gas Tax Special Reverie Fund oe. eee eeesesseesceeceseseeseeseeseesessceacaceeesesseesesseeseeseeseeeeeesessesseeaesaeeaees 156
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Special Revenue Fund ....... eee ee eseeseeseeeceeceeeseeeeseeseeseeeeeees 157
Advance Planning Special Reventie Fund 200... ceeceecesseceseeseeseeseeseeeceeceeeseesesaeeseeaeeseeeeeeseeseseeeaeeaeenees 158
Solid Waste Special Reventle FUN ......... cc ceeeeeesesecsecsecseeseeseeseeseesceecsecseeaeesecaeeaesseeasaenesseeseeneseeeaeees 159
Parks and Recreation Special Reventle FUNC... cieeesesseeseeeeeeceeceeseeseeseeseeseeeeeceeseeeaeeaeeaeeseeesereeees 160
Traffic Impact Fee Special Revenue Fund... ee eeseseeseeseeseeseescesceececeeesecseeseeaeeseeeceeeeeeeeaeeaeeaeenens 161
Commercial Linkage Fee Special Revenue Fund... ceeeseesesseeseeseeseeeceecseeseeseesesseseseeeeeeeseeeeeaeenees 162
Construction Services Special Revenue Fund 20.0... ee eeeeceseseecesessecseeeseeseceessecseesesseeeneeaeseeeaeenees 163
Landfill Bonds Debt Service Fund ........eeceeceescesceeseeseceeeeseeseeesecseeseeeaecseeeaeeseeseeeaeseeeeaeseeeaeeaeeeneeaeenses 164
General Obligation Bonds Debt Service Fund... cee eececcsseseeessesseceseeseceeessesseessesseeseesseseeesaeeneeeees 165
2% Hotel Tax Capital Projects Fund ...... sce eeseeeesseseceecssecsecssesseeesecsececeseceeesesseceeeeseseeesseseeeaseaeenees 166
Internal Service Funds:

Combining Statement of Net Position.........ccccccccccscssseesseeeseeeseeeseceseeeseenseeeseecaecesecesecsseesseeceeeseseseeeenseenaes 168

Combining Statement of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position ...........c:ccccccssessseeeeeeeesteeeees 170

Combining Statement of Cash FLOWS ........cccecccccsssessssssesseceseeesnecesecsseensecnseenseessaecaeceaecnseceseeeseeeeeeeeeenseeaes 172

5 of 240


--- page 6 ---
City of San Mateo
Annual Comprehensive Financial Report
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Table of Contents (Continued)

Page
FINANCIAL SECTION (Continued)
Supplementary Information (Continued):
Fiduciary Funds:
Custodial Funds - Combining Statement of Fiduciary Net Position .........ccssceceseeseeseeeececeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 179
Custodial Funds - Combining Statement of Changes in Fiduciary Net Position .........0...eceseeeeeseeeeeees 180
Private Purpose Trust Funds - Combining Statement of Fiduciary Net Position ..............:esesceeseseeeeees 183
Private Purpose Trust Funds - Combining Statement of Changes in Fiduciary Net Position ........00..00.. 184
General Capital Projects Fund:
Schedule of Assessments and Impact Fees and Related Expenditures .0..........ccecescesceeseeseeeeeeseeeeeeseeereees 187
STATISTICAL SECTION (Unaudited)
Table of Content ..........eccccscestececeeccesceetcescesceeseesecaeesecsaeaecseesaecseeaecsecsceesecsceeaeesecaeeseceaeeaecsaeeaeeaeseaeeaeseseeaeeeeeeaeeates 191
Financial Trends:
Net Position by Component — Last Ten Fiscal Years ............ccccescsscssseeseeseeeseeseeeceeseeeeeeceeaecseeeseeaeseeeeaeeeeeeaeeaeens 192
Changes in Net Position — Last Ten Fiscal Years........cccecscessesseseesesseescescesceecsecseesesseeseeseeasasseesesseesesaeeaeeaeees 194
Governmental Activities Tax Revenues by Source — Last Ten Fiscal Years .......cccccessceeseeeseeseeseeseeeeeeeeeees 199
Fund Balances of Governmental Funds — Last Ten Fiscal Years 2.0.0... ccccccescceseesseeseeseceeeeseceececeeeeeeesaeeeeeeaeeaes 200
Changes in Fund Balances of Governmental Funds — Last Ten Fiscal Years ............::ceccescesceeceeeeeeceeseeereeeeeees 202
Revenue Capacity:
Assessed Value and Estimated Actual Value of Taxable Property — Last Ten Fiscal Years........cceseeseenees 204
Direct and Overlapping Property Tax Rates — Last Ten Fiscal Year ..........cccccsccssscesseestseetecssscessceseessseeseeesaes 205
Principal Property Taxpayers — Current Year and Nine Years Ago ......cccsccscssscsseeseesssceseesseeseesseeesssessseeses 206
Property Tax Levies and Collections — Last Ten Fiscal Years ........cccccscssscssscsssessseesseessecesscsecseesseseseessesenses 207
Debt Capacity:
Ratios of Outstanding Debt by Type — Last Ten Fiscal Years.........cccccsccsssesssesseesecssecesscesseeeeesseeseesessesssenses 208
Ratios of General Bonded Debt Outstanding — Last Ten Fiscal Years.........cceeeesesscessesseceeeeeeeeceeeeseeeeeeseenes 210
Direct and Overlapping Governmental Activities Debt... ce eceececesseeseeesersecesessececsseeseceesaeeeeeaeseeenseneraes 211
Legal Debt Margin Information — Last Ten Fiscal Years... ce eeeeccssessecsseeseeeeeesessccesesseceeesaeeseeesesseeeneeaeaes 212
Pledged Revenue Coverage — Last Ten Fiscal Years .0.....ccecesesscssessecesesseceeceseesecesesseccessecseesaesseeesesaeeeeeeneraes 214
Demographic and Economic Information:
Demographic and Economic Statistics — Last Ten Fiscal Years.........cccccccssecsscssseesseceseceseesseceeeeeseseeeenseesaeenaes 215
Principal Employers — Current Year and Nine Years Ago ........cccccccecssessseesseesseesseeseeceseceseccseceeesseesnseenseeseenaes 216

il

6 of 240


--- page 7 ---
City of San Mateo
Annual Comprehensive Financial Report
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Table of Contents (Continued)

Page
STATISTICAL SECTION (Unaudited) (Continued)
Operating Information:
Full Time Equivalent City Government Employees by Function — Last Ten Fiscal Years..........0.::ccceseceee 217
Operating Indicators by Function — Last Ten Fiscal Years .0......cccccccecceesscssesuescesecetescssceecesecseesesseeaeeaeeaeeas 218
Capital Asset Statistics by Function — Last Ten Fiscal Years..........cccceccecesseescseutecsseecauescesesscsecsesseseeseeseeaeeas 219

7 of 240


--- page 8 ---
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

Finance Department
330 West 20% Avenue
San Mateo, California 94403
p: 650.522.7100
http: //www.cityofsanmateo.or

December 31, 2024

Residents of the City of San Mateo,
Honorable Mayor, and
Honorable Members of the City Council

We are pleased to submit the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR) for the City of San
Mateo, California, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024. This financial report contains a complete set
of audited financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) as promulgated by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board (GASB).

This report consists of management's representations concerning the finances of the City and its
blended component unit. Responsibility for both the accuracy of the data and the completeness and
fairness of the presentation, including all disclosures, rests with the management of the City. To
provide a reasonable basis for making those representations, management of the City has established
a comprehensive internal control framework that is designed to both protect the government's assets
from loss, theft, or misuse and to compile sufficient reliable information for the preparation of the City’s
financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP. The first note in the Notes to the Financial
Statements provides a detailed explanation of the City’s significant accounting policies. Because the
cost of internal controls should not outweigh their benefits, the City’s comprehensive framework of
internal controls has been designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements will
be free from material misstatement. As management, we assert that, to the best of our knowledge and
belief, this financial report is complete and reliable in all material respects.

The City’s Charter, Section 5.26 requires an annual audit of the basic financial statements of the City.
The Pun Group, a firm of licensed certified public accountants, has audited the City’s financial
statements. The goal of the independent audit is to provide reasonable assurance that the financial
statements of the City and its blended component unit for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, are free
of material misstatement. The audit involved examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements; assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management; and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. The independent auditors concluded, based upon the audit, that there was a reasonable
basis for rendering an unmodified (“clean”) opinion on the City’s basic financial statements as of and
for the year ended June 30, 2024. The independent auditors’ report is presented as the first component
of the financial section of this report.

The analysis of the financial condition and the result of operations are in the Management’s Discussion

and Analysis (MD&A) section immediately following the auditor’s report. This transmittal letter is
designed to complement the MD&A and should be read in conjunction with it.

8 of 240


--- page 9 ---
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

THE REPORT
The ACER is presented in three sections:

e The Introduction section includes this letter of transmittal, City Council introduction, the City’s
organizational chart, and certificates of achievement.

e The Financial section includes the report of the independent auditors; Management's Discussion
and Analysis (MD&A); the basic financial statements, including the government-wide financial
statements; and the accompanying notes to the financial statements. The Financial Section also
includes the fund financial statements, including the governmental funds financial statements, the
proprietary funds financial statements, the fiduciary funds financial statements, and the combining
individual funds financial statements for the non-major governmental funds and the internal service
funds. Required supplementary information other than the MD&A is also included in the financial
section.

e The Statistical section includes selected financial and demographic information, presented on a
multi-year basis.

Figure 1: ACFR Organization

Management's Required

Basic Financial

Discussion & Supplementary
Analysis (MD&A) Statements Information

Government-Wide “2 fh Notes to the
- ; Fund Financial : :
Financial Statements Financial
Statements Statements

Summary <—<$<——<—_ > Deal

This ACFR includes all funds of the City and the City’s component unit, which is a legally separate
organization for which the City is financially accountable or whose relationship with the City is of a
nature and significance that would cause the City’s financial statements to be incomplete were it not
included.

In addition to the financial audit, the City typically undertakes a single audit in conformance with the
Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 and the Uniform Guidance.

vi

9 of 240


--- page 10 ---
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

CITY PROFILE

The City of San Mateo is in San Mateo County and is situated 19 miles south of San Francisco and 30
miles north of San Jose. The City covers an area of 15.4 square miles and includes tidelands from the
Bay to the east and coastal mountains to the west. With its Mediterranean climate, residents enjoy
warm, sunny summers and mild damp winters, ideal for various recreational activities in the City’s
many neighborhoods and regional parks.

One of the larger suburbs of the San Francisco Peninsula, San Mateo is bordered by the cities of
Burlingame to the north, Foster City to the east, Belmont to the south, and Hillsborough to the west.
According to the State Department of Finance, the City San Mateo had an estimated population of
105,600 on January 1, 2024, making it the largest city in San Mateo County.

CITY ORGANIZATION

The City was incorporated in 1894 and was Figure 2: Map
originally chartered in 1922. The current charter ++
was adopted in 1971 and revised in 2002. Since
2002, there have been three other voter-approved
amendments to the charter. San Mateo has a
Council-Manager form of government. Five
Council members each serve for four-year terms.
The City recently completed a transition from at-
large elections to district elections, beginning in the
November 2022 election, where three of the five
districts were open. The remaining two districts
completed the first district elections in November
2024. The Council selects a Mayor from among its
members each December for a one-year term. The
City Manager is appointed by the Council and
serves as chief executive officer responsible for the day-to-day administration of City affairs. The City
Council also appoints a City Attorney. There are twelve Advisory Boards and Commissions, nine of
which are appointed by the City Council.

The City provides a wide range of municipal services, including police, public works, parks and
recreation, library, planning and zoning, building, sewer enterprise, street maintenance, economic
development, and general administrative services. The City is part of a joint powers agreement with
the cities of Belmont and Foster City that provides fire services to all three cities through the San Mateo
Consolidated Fire Department. The City offers 35 parks, six recreation centers, an 18-hole golf course,
and three libraries, including a state-of-the-art main library. California Water Service, a private
company, provides water to City residents.

The City has an Audit Committee consisting of the Mayor and Deputy Mayor. The Audit Committee
is responsible for the selection and management of the external auditor. The Audit Committee
discusses any matters related to the audit with the external auditor and accepts the results of the annual
financial audit.

vil

10 of 240


--- page 11 ---
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

BUDGET PROCESS

The City operates on a two-year budget cycle. The two-year budget process requires that each
department submit two one-year expenditure plans and revenue estimates to the City Council for
approval. In each alternate year, the department directors present mid-cycle performance reports to
the City Manager and City Council summarizing budget status to date and seeking approval for year-
two funding. The City utilizes a five-year plan for capital improvements. The plan serves as a guide
for allocation of future resources.

The City maintains budgetary controls that have the objective of ensuring compliance with legal
provisions embodied in the annual appropriated budget submitted by the City Manager and adopted
by the City Council. The annual operating budget and the long-term capital improvement plan are
adopted on or before June 30th by City Council. All budget amendments require City Council
approval. The two-year business plan for operations is adopted in June of every even-numbered year
and is amended in the second year of the plan as part of the annual budget development process.

Budgetary control (the level at which expenditures and encumbrances cannot legally exceed the
appropriated amount) is established at the department level within individual funds. Departmental
operating budgets may be reallocated among programs within a department and within the same fund,
but expenditures may not exceed annually budgeted appropriations at the department/fund level
without Council approval. Project-length budgets are adopted for the General Fund, some special
revenue funds, and all capital project funds. Capital improvement expenditures may not exceed
budgeted amounts without Council approval.

LOCAL AND REGIONAL ECONOMY

The information presented in the financial statements is perhaps best understood when it is considered
from a broader perspective of the specific environment in which the City operates. The City is one of
the major centers of economic activity in San Mateo County, serving as a business, recreational,
educational, and cultural hub.

The diverse economy of San Mateo includes a strong employment base in the technology, health care,
financial services, government, and retail fields. Companies based in San Mateo include Franklin
Templeton, Fisher Investments, Sony Interactive Entertainment (Sony PlayStation), Roblox,
SurveyMonkey, NetSuite, and GoPro. These companies contribute significantly to the City's
employment base and economic vitality.

The City has a vibrant and pedestrian-friendly downtown that fosters small businesses and community
events, enhancing its cultural appeal. Additionally, the Hillsdale Shopping Center and Bridgepointe
Shopping Center offer unique retail and entertainment experience, attracting visitors from the region,
boosting local commerce.

Real Estate Market

San Mateo's real estate market has been a key driver of economic growth, showing consistent strength.
Over the past 13 years, including the pandemic period, property assessed values have steadily
increased. According to the San Mateo County Assessor's Office, the City's total property assessed
value for FY 2023-24 fiscal year reached $35.4 billion—a 5.5% increase from the previous year. This
growth reflects ongoing demand for residential and commercial properties in the area.

vil

11 of 240


--- page 12 ---
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

However, recent economic conditions have introduced new challenges. In response to high inflation,
the Federal Reserve (Fed) has implemented a series of interest rate hikes over the past two years, raising
the Federal Funds Rate. Consequently, average 30-year mortgage rates were elevated to 7% (chart 1).
The high borrowing costs have cooled the real estate market. Although inflation is easing, the Fed has
only implemented three rate cuts in recent months and plans to slow rate cuts in 2025. With this

outlook, borrowing costs are expected to remain elevated in the near term.

Despite these uncertainties, the housing market is somewhat stabilizing, with San Mateo’s median
home prices rebounding to $2.2 million (chart 2) in 2024, supported by continued demand and limited

housing supply.

Chart 1 - 30-Year Fixed Rate Mortgage Average

FRED of/ — 30-Year Fixed Rate Mortgage Average in the United States
9

Percent

2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024
: Ae SSD 2020
Shaded areas indicate U.S. recessions. Source: Freddie Mac fred.stlouisfed.org

Chart 2 - Real Estate Metrics - Single Family Residential, City of San Mateo

250

200

150

100

50

2018 2018 2018 2018 2019 2019 2019 2019 2020 2020 2020 2020 2021 2021 2021 2021 2022 2022 2022 2022 2023 2023 2023 2023 2024 2024 2024
Qt Q2 Q8 QF Qt Q2 Q3 QF QL Q2 QB QF QL Q2 QB Qt QL Q2 QB Qt QL Q2 Qk Qt Qt Q2 QB

Mmmm Median Sale Price 9 o=Inventory @=Sold == Avg Days on Market

Source of information: San Mateo County Association of Realtors

Vili

12 of 240

$2.5

$2.0

$1.5

$1.0

$0.5

Millions


--- page 13 ---
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

Labor Market
San Mateo's labor market remains robust. As of December 2024, the City's unemployment rate stood
at 3.5% (chart 3), matching San Mateo County’s rate (3.5%) and was much better than the State’s rate
(5.4%). Nationally, the U.S. unemployment rate stood at 4.1% in December 2024, a modest uptick from
the prior year.

Chart 3 - Unemployment Rates

14.0
12.0
10.0

8.0

6.0
4.0
289 | T | h ki li lh hi he dn \ li lh lh lh

2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015)2016 20172018 2019 2020 2021) 2022 2023 oe

@ State of California 12.2 117 104 89 75 62 55 48 43 40 101 73 42 48 54
mCounty ofSanMateo 84 7.5 64. 53. 42 34 30 2.7. 23 20 69 46 24 3.0 3.5
™ City of San Mateo 8.1 | 7.3 (6.2) “Sl W4t |) 3.3 | 2.9 | 26 | 21) 19 | 61 | 41) 19 | 3.0 | 35

mw State of California mCountyofSanMateo smCity of San Mateo

Fiscal Implications and Strategic Considerations

Property tax revenues, a core funding source for City services, may experience slower growth due to
pressures on the housing market from high interest rates. Additionally, rising labor and operational
costs could challenge the City's ability to maintain service levels. These conditions will continue to be
closely monitored going forward. Proactive financial oversight and strategic planning will ensure the
City remains well-positioned to adapt to evolving economic conditions.

CIty FINANCIAL POLICIES & PLAN

Formal financial policies and prudent operating practices have enabled the City to maintain core
services and minimize the impact of economic fluctuations on residents as much as possible. Formal
policies exist in areas such as balanced budgets, revenue diversification, operating expenditures,
reserves, investments, and debt.

Trust has been built over the years between the City and the community through establishing and
following formal financial policies, as well as maintaining prudent operating practices. This trust and
confidence were demonstrated by the voters in San Mateo, who in November 2009 approved a % cent
general sales tax. With this tax set to expire April 2018, the voters again demonstrated their confidence
in the City’s financial management by voting in November 2015, approving Measure S to extend the
tax until 2048 to fund critical infrastructure and enhancements to public safety services. San Mateo
voters approved Measure CC in November 2022 to increase the real property transfer tax from 0.5% to
1.5% for properties sold or transferred that are valued at $10 million or more.

1X

13 of 240


--- page 14 ---
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

REVENUE ADMINISTRATION

The City’s two main sources of revenue to fund operating expenditures are property and sales taxes,
which make up over 63 percent of total General Fund revenues. In addition, the City’s revenue
administration includes a review of all fees, fines, and charges for services to ensure the charges are
meeting cost-recovery goals. One-time and unpredictable revenues are spent on one-time
expenditures, such as equipment replacement, or transferred to capital improvement funds for repair
and rehabilitation projects.

EXPENDITURE ADMINISTRATION

City departments and the Finance Department carefully review expenditure budgets. The department
directors are responsible for containing expenditures within their Council-approved budget
appropriations. The City maintains an encumbrance accounting system as an additional means of
budgetary control. Encumbered amounts in the operating budget lapse one year after the end of the
fiscal year.

RESERVES

The City Council’s budget policy for the use of reserves varies depending on the reserve type, but
generally limits the use of reserves to respond to revenue shortfalls, unanticipated expenditures, severe
economic downturns, or natural disasters. The policy further states that use of reserves should be
combined with structural changes to bring the budget back into balance.

The General Fund reserve policy adopted by the City Council seeks to reflect three months of General
Fund budgeted operating expenditures, or 25 percent. At the close of FY 2023-24, the General Fund
balance was increased from $117.9 million to $118.0 million, of which $0.6 million was restricted for
debt services, $11.4 million was assigned for specific purposes, and $105.7 million was unassigned. The
unassigned fund balance includes the 25% operating reserve, housing reserve, and rainy-day reserve.

The Sewer Fund has unrestricted net position of $184.6 million, approximately 408% of total operating
and debt interest expenses, exceeding City enterprise fund reserve policy of four months of
expenditures, or 33 percent. The reserves have been established to provide sufficient liquidity to the
Sewer Fund to ensure adequate funding to complete the Clean Water Program.

In addition to maintaining a strong cash position, operating surplus also maintains the Sewer
Enterprise Fund’s continued high debt service coverage ratio at over 2X. Both the cash position and
debt service coverage affirm the high-quality credit rating the Sewer Enterprise received of AA- from
S&P Global Ratings (formerly known as Standard & Poor’s) and AA rating from Kroll Bond Rating
Agency.

There are additional reserves established in the City’s other funds for vehicle and equipment
replacement, workers’ compensation, general liability, and capital improvements.

DEBT ADMINISTRATION

The City manages the issuance of new debt and proactively communicates with the investment
community in the administration of its outstanding debt. In doing so, the City seeks to ensure that debt
is issued prudently and affordably, and bondholders are provided all the information required by the
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board as governed by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

14 of 240


--- page 15 ---
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

Proposition 13 amended the State Constitution by requiring California cities to obtain voter approval
prior to issuing general obligation bonds. State statutes further limit general obligation bonded debt to
15% of the assessed value of all real and personal property within the City. As of June 30, 2024, the
City’s general obligation bonded debt remaining balance of $14.0 million, including unamortized bond
premium, amounted to 0.25% of the $5.6 billion legal debt limit.

According to standard measures used by the primary credit rating agencies to assess debt (e.g. fund
balance as a percent of operating expenses, debt-to-assessed valuation ratios, debt per capita, etc.), the
City’s level of direct debt obligations is considered low in comparison to similarly sized cities. Rating
agencies cite the City’s strong financial management and prudent fiscal policies as credit strengths. As
of June 30, 2024, the City’s rating for general obligation bonds is AAA by Standard & Poor’s and Aaa
from Moody’s Investor Service. The City of San Mateo Joint Powers Public Financing Authority
manages two bond issues that have $16.3 million in balance outstanding.

Additional information pertaining to the City’s outstanding long-term debt can be found under Long-
Term Debt (Note 7) in the Notes to the Basic Financial Statements and in the Statistical Section under
Legal Debt Margin information.

CASH MANAGEMENT

The City pools cash from all operating sources to manage cash flow and invest idle funds. The Finance
Director serves as the City’s Treasurer and, utilizing the services of a third-party asset management
advisor, oversees the investment of funds in accordance with the City Council-adopted Investment
Policy and Government Code Sections 53601 and 56535. The City Council receives monthly treasury
reports, and reviews and approves the City’s Investment Policy each fiscal year.

LONG-TERM FINANCIAL PLANNING

The City of San Mateo has a long tradition of disciplined and prudent fiscal management. Building on
strategies developed during the Great Recession, the City has successfully accumulated substantial
reserves to better position its General Fund to be prepared for economic retraction or disaster. The
City’s prudent efforts to adopt a reserves policy and accumulate additional reserves during the years
of economic prosperity have proven prescient within context of the immediate and severe financial
impact from the pandemic.

Looking ahead, the City recognizes the need to balance financial stability with strategic investments in
community services and infrastructure. To maintain this balance, the City will periodically assess
reserve policies to ensure adequate savings while identifying opportunities to invest in community
enhancements. The City will continue updating the General Fund's ten-year financial forecast to
anticipate and address future fiscal challenges. The City also maintains a five-year capital improvement
program to plan and prioritize critical infrastructure projects.

For General Fund operations, revenues and expenditures are being closely monitored, supported by a
ten-year forecast to help the organization maintain a long-term focus and allow sufficient time for
thoughtful course corrections in the event of a structural imbalance. Major General Fund revenues will
be carefully tracked, particularly in light of uncertainties that could impact revenue growth. These
uncertainties include VLF shortfall, slowing sales tax, economic conditions and events that affect
Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) and real property transfer tax revenues.

xi

15 of 240


--- page 16 ---
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

AWARDS AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The Government Finance Officers Association of the United States and Canada (GFOA) awarded a
Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting to the City for its ACFR for the fiscal
year ended June 30, 2023. The Certificate of Achievement is a national award recognizing conformance
with the highest standards for preparation of state and local government financial reports. To be
awarded a Certificate of Achievement, the City must publish an easily readable and efficiently
organized ACFR. This report must satisfy both U.S. GAAP and applicable legal requirements. This was
the thirty-fourth consecutive year that the City has received this award. A Certificate of Achievement
is valid for one year only. We believe that this FY 2023-24 ACFR continues to conform to the Certificate
of Achievement program requirements, and we will submit it to the GFOA to determine its eligibility
for another certificate.

The preparation of this ACFR could not have been accomplished without the efficient and dedicated
service of the highly qualified staff in the Finance Department. The dedication and cooperation of staff
in all City departments in the administration of financial policies throughout the year is also
appreciated. Special thanks go to the City’s Acting Accounting Manager, Ha Tran, who oversaw the
compilation and review of the financial statements. We also acknowledge the thorough and
professional manner in which our independent auditors, The Pun Group, conducted their audit.

In closing, City staff wishes to express deep appreciation to the City Council for their leadership,
support, and responsiveness to the financial concerns of the City.

Respectfully submitted,

Karen Huang
Finance Director

xil

16 of 240


--- page 17 ---
City of San Mateo City Council Members

2024

Lisa Diaz Nash Rob Newsom Jr.
Mayor Deputy Mayor

Adam Loraine Rich Hedges Amourence Lee
Council Member Council Member Council Member

XViil

17 of 240


--- page 18 ---
ee te AO aie = ;
== BE Concord =

i ae Hill

Clayton Black Diamond
Mines Regional a
Preserve 7

El Cerrito

Round Valley”

ion City, Brightside
ct oS Dresser
» Fremont _

xix

18 of 240


--- page 19 ---
City Organizational Chart

COMMUNITY OF SAN MATEO

Civic Arts Committee

CITY COUNCIL

Community Relations Commission
Investment Advisory Committee
Library Board

CITY ATTORNEY
CITY CLERK

Measure S Oversight Committee
Mosquito and Vector Control District

Parks & Recreation Commission
Personnel Board

Planning Commission

CITY MANAGER

Senior Citizens Commission
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
Youth Advisory Council

OPERATING DEPARTMENTS

PUBLIC COMMUNITY PARKS & INFORMATION HUMAN
WORKS DEVELOPMENT RECREATION LIBRARY FINANCE TECHNOLOGY RESOURCES

POLICE

City Council Department Heads
Mayor Lisa Diaz Nash Assistant City Manager Christina Horrisberger
Deputy Mayor Rob Newsom Jr. City Clerk Martin McTaggart
Council Member Adam Loraine City Librarian James Moore
Council Member Rich Hedges Community Development Director Zach Dahl
Council Member Amourence Lee Finance Director Karen Huang
Interim Human Resources Director Shawnna Maltbie
Information Technology Director Pete Owen
City Manager Alex Khojikian Parks and Recreation Director Joanne Magrini
City Attorney Prasanna Rasiah Police Chief Ed Barberini
Public Works Director Matt Fabry
XX

19 of 240


--- page 20 ---
Pp

Government Finance Officers Association

Certificate of
Achievement
for Excellence
m Financial
Reporting

Presented to

City of San Mateo
California

For its Annual Comprehensive
Financial Report
For the Fiscal Year Ended

June 30, 2023

Executive Director/CEO

20 of 240


--- page 21 ---
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

To the Honorable Mayor and Members
of the City Council of the City of San Mateo
San Mateo, California

Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinions

We have audited the accompanying financial statements of the governmental activities, the business-type activities,
each major fund, and the aggregate remaining fund information of the City of San Mateo, California (the “City’’), as
of and for the year ended June 30, 2024, and the related notes to the basic financial statements, which collectively
comprise the City’s basic financial statements as listed in the table of contents.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the respective
financial position of the governmental activities, each major fund, and the aggregate remaining fund information of
the City, as of June 30, 2024, and the respective changes in financial position and, where applicable, cash flows
thereof for the year then ended in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.

Basis for Opinions

We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and
the standards applicable to financial audits contained in Government Auditing Standards, issued by the Comptroller
General of the United States. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We are required to be independent of
the City, and to meet our other ethical responsibilities, in accordance with the relevant ethical requirements relating to
our audit. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
audit opinions.

Responsibilities of Management for the Financial Statements

Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and for the design, implementation, and
maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, management is required to evaluate whether there are conditions or events,
considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the City’s ability to continue as a going concern for
twelve months beyond the financial statement date, including any currently known information that may raise
substantial doubt shortly thereafter.

21 of 240


--- page 22 ---
To the Honorable Mayor and Members

of the City Council of the City of San Mateo
San Mateo, California
Page 2

Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinions.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not absolute assurance and therefore is not a guarantee that an
audit conducted in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and
Government Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. The risk of not detecting a
material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion,
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. Misstatements are considered
material if there is a substantial likelihood that, individually or in the aggregate, they would influence the judgment
made by a reasonable user based on the financial statements.

In performing an audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and
Government Auditing Standards, we:

e Exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit.

e Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or
error, and design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks. Such procedures include examining,
on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.

e Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
City’s internal control. Accordingly, no such opinion is expressed.

e Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting
estimates made by management, as well as evaluate the overall presentation of the financial statements.

e Conclude whether, in our judgment, there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise
substantial doubt about the City’s ability to continue as a going concern for a reasonable period of time.

We are required to communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned
scope and timing of the audit, significant audit findings, and certain internal control-related matters that we identified
during the audit.

Required Supplementary Information

Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America require that the Management’s Discussion
and Analysis, Budgetary Comparison Schedules, Schedule of City’s Proportionate Share of the Net Pension Liability
and Related Ratios, Schedules of Contributions — Pension, and Schedule of Changes in Total OPEB Liability and
Related Ratios, as listed in the accompanying table of contents, be presented to supplement the basic financial
statements. Such information, although not a part of the basic financial statements, is required by the Governmental
Accounting Standards Board who considers it to be an essential part of financial reporting for placing the basic
financial statements in an appropriate operational, economic, or historical context. We have applied certain limited
procedures to the required supplementary information in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the
United States of America, which consisted of inquiries of management about the methods of preparing the
information and comparing the information for consistency with management’s responses to our inquiries, the basic
financial statements, and other knowledge we obtained during our audit of the basic financial statements. We do not
express an opinion or provide any assurance on the information because the limited procedures do not provide us with
sufficient evidence to express an opinion or provide any assurance.

22 of 240


--- page 23 ---
To the Honorable Mayor and Members

of the City Council of the City of San Mateo
San Mateo, California
Page 3

Supplementary Information

Our audit was conducted for the purpose of forming opinions on the financial statements that collectively comprise
the City’s basic financial statements. The Combining and Individual Fund Financial Statements, Budgetary
Comparison Schedules, Schedule of Assessments, and Impact Fees and Related Expenditures are presented for
purposes of additional analysis and are not a required part of the basic financial statements. Such information is the
responsibility of management and was derived from and relates directly to the underlying accounting and other
records used to prepare the basic financial statements. The information has been subjected to the auditing procedures
applied in the audit of the basic financial statements and certain additional procedures, including comparing and
reconciling such information directly to the underlying accounting and other records used to prepare the basic
financial statements or to the basic financial statements themselves, and other additional procedures in accordance
with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. In our opinion, the Combining and
Individual Fund Financial Statements, Budgetary Comparison Schedules, and the Schedule of Assessment and Impact
Fees and Related Expenditures are fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the basic financial statements as
a whole.

Other Information

Management is responsible for the other information included in the annual report. The other information comprises
the Introductory and Statistical Sections but does not include the basic financial statements and our auditors’ report
thereon. Our opinions on the basic financial statements do not cover the other information, and we do not express an
opinion or any form of assurance thereon.

In connection with our audit of the basic financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and
consider whether a material inconsistency exists between the other information and the basic financial statements, or
the other information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work performed, we conclude that
an uncorrected material misstatement of the other information exists, we are required to describe it in our report.

Other Reporting Required by Government Auditing Standards

In accordance with Government Auditing Standards, we have also issued our report dated December 31, 2024, on our
consideration of the City’s internal control over financial reporting and on our tests of its compliance with certain
provisions of laws, regulations, contracts, and grant agreements and other matters. The purpose of that report is solely
to describe the scope of our testing of internal control over financial reporting and compliance and the results of that
testing, and not to provide an opinion on the effectiveness of the City’s internal control over financial reporting or on
compliance. That report is an integral part of an audit performed in accordance with Government Auditing Standards
in considering the City’s internal control over financial reporting and compliance.

Walnut Creek, California
December 31, 2024

23 of 240


--- page 24 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

24 of 240


--- page 25 ---
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

Management of the City of San Mateo (City) offers readers of the financial statements this narrative overview
and analysis of the financial activities of the City for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024. Readers are
encouraged to consider the information presented here in conjunction with additional information that is
furnished in our letter of transmittal, the financial statements, and notes. The focus of the information herein
is on the primary government.

FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS

e The City’s assets and deferred outflows of resources exceeded liabilities and deferred inflows of
resources by $860.8 million (net position), which is a $73.5 million increase compared to the beginning
net position. The total net position includes $618.8 million in net investment in capital assets, $111.2
million in restricted net position, and $130.7 million in unrestricted net position.

e Total government-wide revenues from all sources were $322.1 million experiencing a growth of $16.9
million from the prior year. Total revenues for governmental activities grew $18.1 million from the
previous year largely due to increases in charges for services and improvements in investment earnings.
Business-type activities saw a net decrease of $1.2 million in revenues compared to the prior year
primarily attributed to decrease in capital contributions from the sewer enterprise’s regional customers.

e During the fiscal year, the City used a portion of WIFIA loan proceeds to defease the City’s 2021
Wastewater Revenue Notes, Series B. The defeasance resulted in an increase of $15.6 million in deferred
gain on refunding compared to the prior fiscal year.

e Governmental funds reported combined fund balances of $276.1 million, an increase of $12.7 million or
4.8% in comparison with the prior year. Of the total fund balance, $105.7 million is available for
spending at the City’s discretion (unassigned fund balance).

e The Enterprise Fund net position increased by $54.7 million to $390.6 million. Of this amount, $184.6
million was unrestricted net position and available for use at the City’s discretion.

e AtJune 30, 2024, the General Fund’s total fund balance was $118.0 million. The General Fund recorded

$170.0 million in total revenues, $157.6 million in expenditures, and $12.3 million in other financing uses,
leading to a nearly breakeven fiscal year.

25 of 240


--- page 26 ---
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

OVERVIEW OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

This discussion and analysis are intended to serve as an introduction to the City’s basic financial statements.
The basic financial statements are comprised of three components: 1) government-wide financial statements,
2) fund financial statements, and 3) notes to the financial statements. In addition to the basic financial
statements, this report also contains the required supplementary information.

GOVERNMENT-WIDE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The government-wide financial statements are designed to provide readers with a broad overview of the
City’s finances, in a manner similar to private-sector businesses.

The Statement of Net Position presents information on all of the City’s assets, liabilities, and deferred outflows
and inflows of resources, with the difference reported as net position. Over time, increases or decreases in net
position may serve as a useful indicator of whether the City’s financial position is improving or deteriorating.

The Statement of Activities reports how the City's net position changed during the most recent fiscal year.
All changes in net position are reported as soon as the underlying event giving rise to the change occurs,
regardless of the timing of related cash flows. Thus, revenues and expenses are reported in this statement for
some items that will only result in cash flows in future fiscal periods (e.g., uncollected taxes, loan receivables,
and earned but unused compensated leaves).

The governmental activities reflect the City’s basic services, including general government, community
development, public safety, public works, parks and recreation, and library. These services are principally
financed by property, sales, and other taxes.

The business-type activities reflect private-sector-type operations where fees for services typically cover all
or most of the cost of operations, including depreciation expenses. The City’s sewer enterprise is the activity
reported in this category.

The government-wide financial statements include not only the City itself (referred to as the primary
government), but also other legally separate entities for which the City is financially accountable. Financial
information for the City’s one component unit, which is the San Mateo Joint Powers Financing Authority, is
reported separately from the financial information presented for the primary government itself. The
component unit, although legally separate, functions essentially as an agency of the City, and therefore is
included as an integral part of the City. The government-wide financial statements can be found on pages 29-
33 of this report.

FUND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A fund is a grouping of related accounts that is used to maintain control over resources that have been
segregated for specific activities or objectives. The City uses fund accounting to ensure and demonstrate
compliance with finance-related legal requirements. All the funds of the City can be divided into three
categories: governmental funds, proprietary funds, and fiduciary funds.

26 of 240


--- page 27 ---
Governmental funds are used to account for essentially the same functions reported as governmental
activities in the government-wide financial statements. Governmental fund financial statements focus on
near-term inflows and outflows of spendable resources, as well as on balances left at year-end that are
available for spending. Consequently, the governmental fund financial statements provide a detailed short-
term view that helps the readers determine whether there are more or fewer financial resources that can be
spent in the near future to finance the City’s programs. Because this information does not encompass the
long-term focus of the government-wide statements, additional information is provided that reconciles the
governmental fund financial statements to the government-wide statements explaining the relationship (or
differences) between them.

The governmental funds comprise 25 individual funds. Information is presented separately in the
governmental funds balance sheet and in the governmental funds statement of revenues, expenditures, and
changes in fund balances of the General and Capital Projects funds, each of which is a major fund. Data for the
other 19 governmental funds are combined into a single aggregated presentation. Individual fund data for
these non-major governmental funds is provided in the form of combining statements, beginning on page 139
of this report. The basic governmental fund financial statements can be found on pages 35-42 of this report.

Since July 1, 1986, the City has employed a two-year budget cycle. The two-year budget process includes
preparation of two one-year expenditure plans and revenue estimates that are presented to the City Council
for consideration. The focus of the first year of the business plan is the City’s operating budget, while the focus
of the second year of the business plan is the City’s Capital Improvement Plan. In any budget cycle, to remain
adaptable to changing economic and/or operational conditions, the City may choose to develop one- year
instead of two-year budget plans.

Budgetary comparison schedules, beginning on page 127, have been provided to demonstrate compliance with
these budgets in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP).

The City maintains two types of proprietary funds: enterprise and internal service. Enterprise funds are used
to report the same functions presented as business-type activities in the government-wide financial statements.
The City uses an enterprise fund to account for its Sewer Fund. Internal service funds are an accounting device
used to accumulate and allocate costs internally among the City’s various functions. The City uses internal
service funds to account for its general liability, fleet and building maintenance, vehicle and equipment
replacement, workers’ compensation, dental, and other employee benefit programs. The internal service funds
provide services that predominantly benefit governmental rather than business-type functions. They have
been included within governmental activities to reflect the consolidation for internal services fund activities
in the government-wide financial statements.

Proprietary funds provide the same type of information as the government-wide financial statements, only in
more detail. The proprietary fund financial statements provide separate information for the Sewer Fund. Data
for the enterprise fund and all the internal service funds are combined into their respective single aggregated
presentations. Individual fund data for the non-major internal service funds is provided in the form of
combining statements elsewhere in this report. The basic proprietary fund financial statements can be found
on pages 43-47 of this report.

27 of 240


--- page 28 ---
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

Fiduciary funds are used to account for resources held on behalf of outside parties, including other
governments. When these assets are held under the terms of formal trust agreement, a private-purpose trust
is used. The City maintains a private-purpose trust fund for the Successor Agency of the City of San Mateo
Redevelopment Agency (Successor Agency). In addition, the City uses custodial funds for assets that the City
are holding for San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department, the Community Facilities District No. 2008-01 (Bay
Meadows), and other entities. Fiduciary funds generally are used to account for assets that the City holds on
behalf of others as their agent. Fiduciary funds are not reported in the government-wide financial statements
because the resources of these funds are not available to support the City’s own programs. The accounting
used for fiduciary funds is much like that used for proprietary funds. The basic fiduciary fund financial
statements can be found on pages 51-54 of this report.

Notes to the Basic Financial Statements provide additional information that is essential to a full
understanding of the data provided in the government-wide and fund financial statements. The notes to the
basic financial statements can be found on pages 55-123 of this report.

Other information in addition to the basic financial statements and accompanying notes is presented in the
form of certain required supplementary information concerning the City’s budgetary comparison schedules
for all major governmental funds and the City’s progress in funding its obligation for the provision of pension
and other post-employment benefits to its employees. The combining statements supplementary information
referred to earlier in connection with non-major funds and internal services funds are also presented in this
section. Required supplementary information can be found on pages 125-135 of this report.

28 of 240


--- page 29 ---
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

(GOVERNMENT-WIDE FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

As noted earlier, net position may serve over time asa useful indicator of a government's financial
performance. At the close of the fiscal year, the City’s assets and deferred outflows exceeded liabilities and
deferred inflows of resources by $860.8 million.

The tables on the following pages present a summary and net changes of the City’s net position as of
June 30, 2024, and June 30, 2023.

STATEMENT OF NET POSITION

(Amounts in millions)
Governmental Business-Type Total
Activities P Government
: 2022-23 2022-23
Current and other assets $ 2842 S$ 668.6
Capital assets 699.4 1,175.1
Total assets 983.6 1,843.7
Deferred outflows - deferred loss on refundi Y 0.8
Deferred outflows - related to OPEB 1.6 0.2 18
Deferred outflows - related to pensions 61.0 5.3 66.3
Total deferred outflows of resources 63.4 5S 68.9
Current liabilities 794 15.1 94.5
Non-current liabilities 380.6 637.0 1,017.6
Total liabilities 460.0 652.1 1,112.1
Deferred gain on refunding - 0.6 0.6
Deferred inflows - related to leases 9.5 - 9.5
Deferred inflows - related to OPEB 14 0.2 1.6
Deferred inflows - related to pensions 1.2 0.3 15
Total deferred inflows of resources 12.1 el 13.2
Net investment in capital assets 399.8 1718 571.6
Restricted 108.3 - 108.3
Unrestricted (56.7) 164.1 107.4
Total net position S$ 4514 S$ 335.9 S$ 787.3

29 of 240


--- page 30 ---
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

Certain reclassifications of amounts previously reported have been made to the accompanying financial statements to
maintain consistency between periods presented. The reclassifications had no impact on previously reported net assets.

As of June 30, 2024, the City reported $618.9 million (71.9%) in net position for its net investment in capital
assets (e.g., land, buildings, infrastructure, machinery, and equipment), net of accumulated depreciation and
less any related debt used to acquire those assets that is still outstanding. The City uses these capital assets
to provide services to the community; consequently, these assets are not available for future spending.
Although the City’s investment in its capital assets is reported net of related debt, it should be noted that the
resources needed to repay this debt must be provided from other sources, since the capital assets themselves
cannot be used to liquidate these liabilities.

The City also reported $111.2 million (12.9%) in restricted net position. These are resources subject to
external restrictions as to how they may be used, such as housing and economic development, capital projects,
debt service, and other purposes.

The remaining $130.7 million in net position is unrestricted, representing 15.2% of the total net position. The
unrestricted net position is available to fund day-to-day operations without any constraints established by debt
covenants or other legal requirements or restrictions.

e In governmental activities, unrestricted net position increased by $2.8 million, improving from a deficit
balance of $56.7 million to a deficit of $53.9 million at June 30, 2024. The key factors of this increase
included a reduction in claims payable based on the result of the latest actuarial valuation, one-time
revenues from new development projects, and better-than-expected investment earnings. These
increases were partially offset by increases in pension and OPEB liabilities. While the unrestricted net
position improved, it remained in deficit, primarily due to the net pension liabilities of $269.0 million
and net OPEB liabilities of $9.5 million.

e In business-type activities, unrestricted net position increased by $20.5 million, rising from $164.1
million in the prior year to $184.6 million as of June 30, 2024. This increase was primarily driven by net

income from the Sewer Fund operations.

The City’s overall net position increase $23.3 million from the previous year. The reasons for this overall
increase are discussed in the following sections for the governmental activities and business-type activities.

30 of 240


--- page 31 ---
Revenues:
Program revenues:
Charges for services
Operating grants and contributions
Capital grants and contributions
General revenues:
Property taxes
Sales taxes
Property transfer taxes
Business, hotel & other taxes
Franchise taxes
Investment earnings & other revenue

Total revenues

Expenses:
General government
Community development
Public safety
Public works
Parks and recreation
Library
Interest on long term debt
Sewer

Total ezpenses

Increase (decrease) in net position befor

special items and transfers

Transfers
Total transfers

Change in net position

Net position - Beginning of Year, as restated
Net position - End of gear

STATEMENT OF ACTIVITIES
(Amounts in millions)

Governmental Business-Tgpe Total
Activities Activities Primary Government
24 2022-23 2023-24 2022-23 2023-2 2022-23

$ 34 $ 78.0 $ 154
3.8 : 3.8

5.4 15.5 20.9

83.3 - 83.3

34.3 : 34.3

74 : 74

16.4 : 16.4

3.6 - 3.6

6.7 74 14.1
204.3 100.9 305.2
28.6 - 28.6

16.8 : 16.8

94.3 - 94.3

29.0 : 29.0

23.4 : 23.4

3.4 : 3.4

25 : 25

- 418 418
204.0 41.8 245.8
0.3 59.1 59.4

18 (1.80) :
1.8 (1.80) -

2.1 57.3 59.4
449.3 278.6 727.9

$ 451.4 $ 335.9 $ 787.3
———_—_—_—_ =————

31 of 240

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS


--- page 32 ---
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
GOVERNMENTAL ACTIVITIES

Governmental activities increased the City’s total net position by $18.8 million. Key elements contributing to
the increase are described below.

¢ Overall, total revenues and transfers from governmental activities were $222.4 million, a $18.1
million increase compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily attributed to the higher investment
returns and charges for services. For the same period, expenses totaled $203.6 million, a decrease of
$0.4 million from prior year.

* Property tax revenues in the governmental funds totaled $81.3 million, a decrease of $2.0 million or
2.4%. Property tax revenues were largely comprised of secured current year property taxes, property
tax in-lieu of vehicle license fees (VLF), and Excess Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund (ERAF).
Secured property tax represented 62.6% of all property tax revenues and increased by $2.2 million
compared to the prior fiscal year, driven by new developments and reassessment of sold properties.
However, this increase was offset by a decrease in VLF revenue. For fiscal year 2023-24, VLF owed to
the City was $15.7 million, but only $9.1 million was received, resulting in a VLF shortfall of $6.6
million. The County of San Mateo has filed a claim with the State of California in August 2024 for VLF
shortfall backfill in the State’s 2025-26 budget. Due to a two-year gap, the City received $1.9 million of
the 2021-22 VLF shortfall in the fiscal year 2023-24, bring the total VLF revenue to $11.0 million, a
decrease of $5.4 million from the prior year..

¢ Real property transfer tax revenues totaled $8.6 million, an increase of $1.2 million from $7.4 million in
the previous year. While real property transfer tax revenues have declined over the last two years due
to high interest rates, the passage of Measure CC in 2022 allowed the City to impose an additional 1%
real property transfer tax on properties sold or transferred with a value of $10 million or more. In fiscal
year 2023-24, for the first time since its passage, the City received $0.9 million Measure CC revenue,
which was the primary driver of the increase of the total real property transfer tax revenues.

e The City recorded $32.4 million in sales tax revenues, a decrease of $1.9 million (or 5.5%) compared to
the prior fiscal year. This decline was partially due to decreases in auto sales, and a reduction in sales
tax allocation from the County pool.

e Transient occupancy tax (TOT) revenues decreased from $7.1 million in the prior year to $6.2 million
in 2023-24, primarily due to the closure of the Marriott Hotel. Of the $6.2 million in total TOT revenues,
$5.3 million was recorded in the General Fund and the remaining in the 2% Hotel Tax Fund.

e The City’s governmental activities accounted for $40.1 million in charges for services revenue, which
was an increase of $2.7 million (or 7.2%) compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily in parks and
recreation, community development, and public works. This reflects the return of the program
revenues to normal operational levels.

32 of 240


--- page 33 ---
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

The following charts of governmental activities revenue by source, expense, and program revenue were
derived from the Statement of Activities.

REVENUE BY SOURCES

GOVERNMENTAL ACTIVITIES
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2024

Capital grants and

contributions Property
6% taxes
36%

Operating grants
and contributio,
5%

Sales taxes
15%

Charges for
services
18%

roperty transfer
taxes
4%
Business, hotel &

Investment

. doth other taxes
income and other 1%
revenue
8% Franchise taxes

1%

33 of 240


--- page 34 ---
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

Expenses and Program Revenues
Governmental Activities
Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2024

30.0
20.0
70.0
60.0
»
i
2
= 50.0
e
=
40.0
30.0
20.0
_ x l lJ LI
oo LJ | a |
General Communry Public Safety Public Works Parks & Library Interest on
Government, Development Recreation Long-term Debt
™ Expenses @ Program Revenue

The cost of all governmental activities for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, was $203.6 million. Some of the
costs were paid by those directly benefiting from the programs ($40.1 million), by other governments and
organizations which subsidized programs with operating grants and contributions ($11.0 million), or capital
grants and contributions ($13.2 million).

BUSINESS-TYPE ACTIVITIES
Business-type activities increased the City’s net position by $54.7 million. Key elements contributing to the
increase are described below.

¢ Total program revenues of $99.7 million, a reduction of $1.2 million from the prior year. This was
primarily due to a $7.3 million decrease in capital grants and contributions, which was partially offset
by a $3.3 million increase in charges in services.

¢ Charges for services increased by $3.3 million to $81.3 million in 2023-24, from $78.0 million in the prior
year, primarily due to a 3% increase in the City’s sewer service rates.

¢ The $7.3 million decrease in capital grants and contributions was primarily due to the Interim Capital
Cost Agreement between the City of San Mateo and the Town of Hillsborough for the latter’s share of
costs for the Clean Water Program. Since the Government-Wide Financial Statements (as well as the
Sewer Enterprise Fund) are accounted on a full accrual basis, the full amount due from the Town of
Hillsborough is recognized as revenue although it will be paid over 30 years (discounted by the
percentage of project completion). During the current fiscal year, the City recognized $6.1 million capital
contribution due from the Town of Hillsborough compared to $10.7 million in previous year.

34 of 240


--- page 35 ---
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

The following charts of business-type activities revenue by source, expense, and program revenues were
derived from the Statement of Activities.

REVENUE BY SOURCES
BUSINESS -TYPE ACTIVITIES
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2024

Investment income

9% .
Capital grants & — revenue

contributions
8%

Charges for services
82%

35 of 240


--- page 36 ---
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

Expenses and Program Revenues
Business-Type Activities
Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2024

$90

$80

Millions

$70

$60

$50
$40

$30

$20

$10

Sewer
mExpenses & Program Revenue

Total business-type activities expenses and transfers out for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 were $45.0
million, an increase of $1.4 million or 3.2%, compared to the prior year. This increase reflects the rising cost of doing
business amid sustained inflation.

Cash and investments of business-type activities totaled $133.4 million, a reduction of $5.0 million compared
to $138.4 million in the prior year, mainly due to investment in capital improvement projects. Higher
investment income and increase in business-type activities charges for services, were the primary driver
behind the healthy cash position, which is intentional to provide strong liquidity during the construction phase
of the Clean Water Program, as well as a robust debt coverage ratio consistent with the Sewer enterprise’s AA
credit rating.

Business type activities non-depreciable assets increased from $534.7 million to $613.7 million, reflecting

increased Sewer capital projects construction activities for the sewer collection and treatment systems during
the fiscal year.

36 of 240


--- page 37 ---
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF THE CITY’S FUNDS

As noted earlier, the City uses fund accounting to ensure and demonstrate compliance with finance related
legal requirements.

GOVERNMENTAL FUNDS

The focus of the City’s governmental funds is to provide information on current year revenues, expenditures,
and balances of spendable resources. Such information is useful in assessing the City’s near-term financing
requirements. In particular, unassigned fund balance may serve as a useful measure of a government's net
resources available for spending at the end of the fiscal year.

As of June 30, 2024, the City’s governmental funds combined ending fund balance was $276.1 million, which
was an increase of $12.7 million from the prior fiscal year. Of the total fund balances, $105.7 million is
unassigned fund balance, which is available for spending at the City’s discretion.

The General Fund is the primary operating fund of the City, as it accounts for nearly all tax revenues and the
cost of core services. The unassigned fund balance of the General Fund was $105.7 million, while the total fund
balance was $118.0 million. As a measure of liquidity, both unassigned fund balance and total fund balance can
be compared to total fund expenditures. Unassigned fund balance and total fund balance represent
approximately 67.1% and.74.9% of total General Fund expenditures of $157.6 million, respectively. The City
Council policy goal is to have reserves of at least three months of budgeted operating expenditures. The
adopted 2023-24 budget for General Fund expenditures (excluding transfers out) was $157.5 million, therefore
the minimum amount of General Fund reserves required for compliance with the reserves policy in 2023-24 was
$39.4 million.

While the City’s unassigned fund balance is above the policy goal, the uncertainties of the future trends of the
TOT recovery, VLF shortfall, and the impact of CalPERS investment performance on the City’s pension
contributions will likely result in a significant draw down on the General Fund’s Rainy-Day Reserve, which is
included as part of the unassigned fund balance.

Governmental funds revenues, expenditures, and change in fund balances for the last ten fiscal year can be
found under the Statistical Section of this report.

The City will continue to monitor economic indicators that impact the City’s tax revenues and expenditures,
including:

e Ongoing elevated inflation, increasing the cost to purchase goods and services;

e The Federal Reserve's efforts to mitigate inflation by increasing the Federal Funds Rate, which ultimately
increases the City’s investment earnings, but as interest rates climb higher, the GASB 31 fair market value
adjustment may be negative. Conversely, if the City issues debt during this time, it will incur greater

interest expense.

e The increased cost to borrow money, which places pressure on the prospective home buyers, will likely
dampen the City’s real property transfer tax.

37 of 240


--- page 38 ---
General Fund

The General Fund is the City’s primary operating fund, supporting core services and accounting for the majority
of tax revenues. In FY 2023-24, General Fund total revenues increased by $6.4 million or 3.9% to $170.0 million.
Major revenues include:

Property Tax

Property tax remains the City’s largest and most stable revenue source, generating $78.6 million in FY 2023-24,
$2.0 million less than the prior fiscal year. Although secured property tax continued to grow, decline was due
to the shortfall in Vehicle License Fee (VLF) in-lieu property tax revenue.

Sales Tax
Sales tax revenue, the second largest revenue, decreased by $1.8 million (6.1%) to $27.8 million. The decrease
was primarily due to reduced auto sales and a lower sales tax allocation from the County pool.

Other Taxes

Other taxes, primarily consisting of Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT), real property transfer tax (RPTT), business
tax and franchise fees, totaled $25.9 million in FY 2023-24, reflecting a slight decrease of $0.2 million form the
previous year. TOT generated $5.3 million, RPTT $8.7 million, business tax $8.5 million, and franchise and
other taxes $3.4 million. TOT revenue declined due to the Marriot Hotel closure. This decease was partially
offset by a $1.2 million (16%) increase in RPTT, which was primarily attributed to Measure CC.

Investment Income
Investment income saw the largest growth, increased by $8.1 million -- from $0.4 million to $8.5 million - due
to higher yields and mark-to-market unrealized gain as of June 30, 2024.

Charges for Services
Revenues from charges for services increased by $1.8 million (13.0%) to $15.6 million, primarily due to stronger
revenues from encroachment permits, golf operations and recreation programs.

Expenditures
General Fund expenditures totaled $157.6 million, increased by $7.7 million (5.1%) compared to the prior year.
The increase was due to negotiated labor cost increases and rising operating expenses linked to inflation.

Fund Balance

For FY 2023-24, the General Fund’s total revenues ($170.0 million) exceeded expenditures ($157.6 million) by
$12.4 million, before $12.3 million of other financing uses - which was primarily transfers out to capital projects
fund and debt service funds, net of transfers in from other funds. This resulted in a net fund balance increase of
$0.1 million, increasing the General Fund balance to $118.0 million.

General Capital Projects Fund

The General Capital Projects Fund was established to account for the City’s major infrastructure improvement
needs and other capital projects. At the close of FY 2023-24, the fund has a fund balance of $58.8 million,
increasing by $4.6 million (8.5%) from the prior fiscal year. Total expenditures were $26.8 million, funding
various capital projects, including $11.8 million for the citywide street rehabilitation and reconstruction
program, $1.7 million for storm and flood control improvements, $2.6 million for parks projects, and $7.9 million
for city facilities and technology upgrades. The citywide street reconstruction projects specifically targeted
streets identified as failed in 2013, while rehabilitation projects focused on street resurfacing, with the goal to
maintain the City’s Pavement Condition Index (PCI) at or above 70.

18
38 of 240


--- page 39 ---
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Construction Services Fund

The Construction Services Fund was established to account for building permit revenue and expenditures for
activities relating to private development projects. In FY 2023-24, the Construction Services Fund no longer met
the criteria to be reported as a major fund. The change resulted in adjustments to and a restatement of beginning
fund balance. Further details were provided in the notes to the basic financial statements on page 122 of this
report.

PROPRIETARY FUNDS

Proprietary Funds are comprised of enterprise and internal service funds. The City’s proprietary funds
provide the same type of information found in the government-wide financial statements, but with some
additional details.

Enterprise Fund

The City has a sewer enterprise operation. Total enterprise fund net position was $390.6 million, an increase of
$54.7 million, or 16.3%, over the prior fiscal year.

The unrestricted net position of the Sewer Enterprise Fund at the end of the fiscal year was $184.6 million, an
increase of $20.5 million from the prior fiscal year. This is due primarily to the scheduled rate increase and
capital contributions for CIP projects. The scheduled rate increase ensure the Sewer Enterprise Fund maintains
a strong cash position and debt service coverage ratio, aligned with the operational and capital project needs.
This financial strength supports the fund’s high credit rating and ensures compliance with its debt coverage
requirements pursuant to debt indentures.

Internal Service Funds

The internal service funds’ total net position of $25.5 million increased by $10.0 million or 64.5% from the prior
year. The unrestricted net position at the end of the year was $18.4 million, or 72.2% of total net position. The
current year’s decrease in total net position of the internal service funds is due to a variety of factors that are
discussed in more detail below.

Workers’ Compensation Insurance Fund’s net position increased by $1.2 million to $7.6 million. Revenue from
charges for services is set based on budget projections. The City continues to balance the workers’
compensation collection rate charged to operating departments with proactive programs aimed at reducing
frequency and severity of workers’ compensation claims.

The Dental Fund ended the fiscal year with a net position of $0.9 million, a slight decrease of $0.1 million
compared to the prior year. The Benefits Fund’s ending net position was $1.1 million, an increase of $0.5 million

compared to the prior year.

The Comprehensive Liability Insurance Fund’s ending net position was negative $2.4 million, a significant
improvement of $9.6 million, primarily due to resolved litigations resulting in lower claims payable.

39 of 240


--- page 40 ---
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

The Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund ended fiscal year with a net position of $18.1 million, a
decrease of $0.7 million or 3.7% compared to the prior fiscal year. This slight decline indicates that the current
collection rates adequately cover vehicle and equipment replacement costs.

The Fleet and Building Maintenance Fund ended the year with a net position of $0.2 million, a decrease of
$0.6 million from the prior fiscal year. While the current collection rates remain adequate, an increase in
recovery rates may deem necessary in future years to maintain the fund’s long-term sustainability.

GENERAL FUND BUDGETARY HIGHLIGHTS

The General Fund adopted budget for FY 2023-24 reflected a $12.6 million deficit. The final budget increased
by $6.0 million, raising the total deficit to $17.3 million. However, by the close of FY 2023-24, actual revenues
closely matched total expenditures. As a result, the General Fund experienced a break-even year, with actual
revenues exceeding budget projections and actual spending coming in under budget. The following schedule
summarizes the General Fund budgetary comparison for the current fiscal year (amounts in millions).

SUMMARY OF GENERAL FUND BUDGETARY COMPARISON SCHEDULE

Variance from

Final Budget
Original Final Actual Favorable
Budget Budget Results (Unfavorable)
Resources:
Revenues 156.9 157.1 170.0 12.9
Transfers in 72 72 7.2 -
Proceeds from sale of property - - - -
Inception of subscription liability - Li 1.1 -
Total resources 164.1 165.4 178.3 12,9
Charges to appropriations:
Expenditures 157.5 160.4 157.6 2.8
Transfers out 19.2 an3 20.7 1.6
Total charges 176.7 182.7 178.3 4.4
Net change in fund balance 12.6 17.3 - 17.3
Beginning fund balance 117.9
Ending fund balance $ 117.9

General Fund total resources - actual revenues and transfers in were $12.9 million more than the final budgeted
estimate, while total charges - actual expenditures and transfers out were $4.4 million under the final budget.
At the end of the fiscal year, the total fund balance of the General Fund was $118.0 million, which was the same
compared to the prior fiscal year.

20
40 of 240


--- page 41 ---
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

The following schedule shows differences between the final estimated revenues and actual revenues of
greater than $1.0 million in value (amounts in millions).

Estimated Actual
Revenue Source Revenues Revenues Difference
Property taxes $ 78.0 $ 78.6 $ 0.6
Sales taxes 31.2 27.8 (3.4)
Other taxes 23.5 25.9 2.4
Charges for services 12.8 15.6 2.8
Investment income 1.8 8.5 6.7
Parking Meter and Lease Revenue 2.0 2 LZ

Actual revenues outperformed estimates in most.categories. Notably, investment income exceeded
expectations by $6.7 million, and charges for services brought in $2.8 million more than estimated. Property
taxes, other taxes, and parking meter and lease revenue also performed better than budget projections.
However, sales taxes fell short by $3.4 million largely due to decrease in auto and County pool allocation.

Actual expenditure and transfers out was $4.4 million less than the final budget. The largest favorable variance
was from the Public Works and Parks and Recreation departments.

21
41 of 240


--- page 42 ---
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

CAPITAL ASSETS AND LONG-TERM DEBT ADMINISTRATION

CAPITAL ASSETS

The City’s investment in capital assets for its governmental and business-type activities as of June 30, 2024,
amounts to $1.3 billion, which is $91.6 million more than the prior year. This investment in capital assets includes
land, buildings, improvements, machinery and equipment, construction in progress, and infrastructure -
park facilities, roads, highways, bridges, lighting systems, sewer and storm systems, and the golf course. Major
capital asset activity during the current fiscal year included city-wide sanitary sewer and storm improvements,
and city-wide street rehabilitation and reconstruction. Additional information on the City’s capital assets can
be found in Note 6 on pages 90-91 of this report.

Non-depreciable assets:
Land
Construction in progress
Total non-depreciable assets

Depreciable assets (net of depreciation):
Building and improvements
Treatment plant & transmission lines
Machinery and equipment
Infrastructure
Leased Assets
Subscription Assets
Total depreciable assets (net)
Total capital assets

CAPITAL ASSETS
(Amounts in millions)
Governmental Business-Type
Activities aban a Government
2022-23 2022-23 2 2: 2022-23
$ 521 S$ 40 s 56.1
25.2 530.7 555.9
77.2 534.7 611.9
108.6 112.0 - 112.0
" - 163.5 163.5
92 8.6 1 9.7
276.7 271.9 - 271.9
04 1.0 01 11
5.1 5.0 - 5.0
S$ 4825 $ 475.7 . S$ 699.3 $_ 1,175.1

22
42 of 240


--- page 43 ---
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

LONG-TERM DEBT

At the end of the current fiscal year, the City had total long-term debt outstanding of $700.7 million. Of this
amount, $14.0 million comprises debt backed by the full faith and credit of the City. The remainder of
outstanding debt is primarily composed of bonds and loans secured by specified revenue sources; e.g., sewer
charges and loans.

OUTSTANDING DEBT
General Obligation and Revenue Bonds

(Amounts in millions)

Governmental Business-Type Total
Activities Activities Primary Government
2023-24 2022-23 23-24 | _ 2022-23 2023-24 2022-23
General Obligation Bonds $ 140 S$ 157 $ - $s 14.0 s 15.7
Revenue Bonds 16.5 17.6 318. 619.1 335.1 636.7
Advance Payable to other Governmen 48.3 49.7 \ - - 48.3 49.7
Loans payable 43 295.5 - 299.2 43
Leases payable 5 - 0.1 o4 12
Subscription Liability 3.5 - - 3.7 3.5
Total outstanding debt 91.9 614.1 619.2 700.7 711.1

The City’s rating for General Obligation Bonds is AA+ from Standard & Poor’s and AAA from Moody’s.
Standard & Poor’s has assigned a rating of Aa2 for the City’s revenue bonds.

State statutes limit the amount of general obligation debt a governmental entity may issue to 15% of its total
assessed valuation. The current debt limitation for the City is approximately $5.6 billion, and at June 30, 2024, the
City was only at 0.25% of its legal debt limit. Additional information on the City of San Mateo’s long-term debt
can be found in Note 7 and statistical section of this report.

ECONOMIC FACTORS AND NEXT YEAR’S BUDGET

The City of San Mateo continues to benefit from a strong regional economy characterized by low unemployment
and steady economic growth. As of June 2024, San Mateo County's unemployment rate remains under 4%,
reflecting a strong local job market that outperforms the state average. This economic strength has supported
stable revenue streams for the City, despite challenges in specific sectors.

The real estate market has shown signs of slowing during FY 2023-24 due to the sustained high-interest rate
environment. While property sales activity has cooled, the median home price in San Mateo has remained stable
and even shown increases, demonstrating the City housing market's resilience and strength. Near the end of
FY 2023-24, several commercial properties changed ownership, and this trend continued into the new fiscal
year. The City has seen increases in Real Property Transfer Tax (RPTT) revenue as a result.

23
43 of 240


--- page 44 ---
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
General Fund

Despite these positive factors, balancing the General Fund’s budget is a challenging. While the City’s revenues
are stable, expenditures have increased due to rising labor costs, sustained inflation, and the needs to continue
to invest in the community to improve services.

The General Fund is projecting a budget deficit in FY 2024-25, with $169.8 million in total revenues (including
transfers in) and $180.4 million in expenditures (including transfers out), resulting in a deficit of $10.6 million.

The adopted FY 2024-25 General Fund budget reflects careful planning of our financial resources, balancing the
need to maintain high service levels with the realities of economic uncertainty. Modest revenue growth is
projected across most major revenue sources, with particular attention to the performance of General Fund’s
property tax (including VLF), sales tax, RPTT and TOT. Expenditure growth remains focused on maintaining
essential services, with continued investments in public safety, infrastructure, and community services.

Personnel costs, including negotiated salary adjustments and rising pension and healthcare contributions,
continue to add pressure on the General Fund. These cost factors have been incorporated into the City's long-
term financial forecast.

Due to proactive financial planning, the City maintains a healthy General Fund reserve, with over $118.0 million
as of June 30, 2024. This reserve offers the City a financial runway to develop and implement a comprehensive
financial sustainability plan, which will focus on balancing the budget, continuing investment in facilities and
infrastructure to meet community needs, and preserving the City’s long-term financial health.

The FY 2024-25 budget reflects the City's commitment to fiscal responsibility. By leveraging its strong reserve
position and adhering to prudent fiscal policies, the City is well-positioned to navigate future economic
challenges while continuing to deliver high-quality services to the community.

Capital Projects Fund

In June 2024, City Council approved the five-year Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) and FY 2024-25 Capital
Budget. The five-year CIP totals $240.0 million, with $65.2 million for 2024-25. New funding and major
changes included: increases in funding for the Clean Water Program and the Sewer Collection System
Rehabilitation Program, as well as new funding for the street rehabilitation and reconstruction projects, storm
and flood control improvement projects, park projects, and city facilities and technology upgrades.

Sewer Fund

Sewer rates are scheduled to increase 3.0% in FY 2024-25. Revenues collected through the sewer service charges
are used to fund sewer sanitary operations and capital improvement projects. San Mateo's upgraded
wastewater treatment plant is scheduled to begin operations in 2025. The project has achieved significant
milestones, with Phase 3 construction approximately 85% complete as of June 2024.

24
44 of 240


--- page 45 ---
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION

This financial report is designed to provide a general overview of the City of San Mateo’s finances for all
those with an interest in the government's finances. Questions concerning any of the information provided in
this report or requests for additional financial information should be addressed to the Finance Director, 330
West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, California, 94403.

25
45 of 240


--- page 46 ---
26

46 of 240


--- page 47 ---
BASIC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

27
47 of 240


--- page 48 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

28
48 of 240


--- page 49 ---
GOVERNMENT-WIDE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

29
49 of 240


--- page 50 ---
City of San Mateo

Statement of Net Position

June 30, 2024
Primary Government
Governmental Business-Type
Activities Activities Total
ASSETS
Current assets:
Cash and investments $ 326,227,149 133,397,595 459,624,744
Accounts receivable, net 3,493,554 36,099,027 39,592,581
Interest receivable 2,210,243 643,703 2,853,946
Taxes receivable 7,925,136 - 7,925,136
Grants receivable 3,287,616 - 3,287,616
Leases receivable - current 485,582 - 485,582
Prepaid items, inventory, and deposits 908,933 - 908,933
Total current assets 344,538,213 170,140,325 514,678,538
Noncurrent assets:
Restricted cash and investments 21,216,358 51,978,422 73,194,780
Investment in JPA 12,740,381 - 12,740,381
Leases receivable 9,546,992 - 9,546,992
Loans and notes receivable, net 3,893,484 38,999,057 42,892,541
Capital assets:
Non-depreciable 82,476,143 613,717,839 696,193,982
Depreciable/amortizable, net 400,058,126 170,526,248 570,584,374
Total capital assets 482,534,269 784,244,087 1,266,778,356
Total noncurrent assets 929,931,484 875,221,566 405,153,050
Total assets 874,469,697 1,045,361,891 1,919,831,588
DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Deferred loss on refunding 699,287 - 699,287
Related to OPEB 4,543,847 674,767 5,218,614
Related to pensions 52,666,966 4,950,503 57,617,469
Total deferred outflows of resources 57,910,100 5,625,270 63,535,370
See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.
30

50 of 240


--- page 51 ---
City of San Mateo
Statement of Net Position (Continued)

June 30, 2024
Primary Government
Governmental Business-Type
Activities Activities Total
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable 30,745,322 1,085,688 31,831,010
Retention payable 5,029,210 - 5,029,210
Accrued payroll 2,495,736 - 2,495,736
Deposits payable 13,266,409 1,057,256 14,323,665
Interest payable 573,808 6,722,343 7,296,151
Unearned revenue 5,652,816 - 5,652,816
Compensated absences - due within one year 910,640 121,123 1,031,763
Claims payable - due within one year 4,044,000 - 4,044,000

Landfill postclosure cost payable - due within one year 115,264 - 115,264

See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.

31

Long-term debt - due within one year 5,873,007 1,997,968 7,870,975
Total current liabilities 68,706,212 10,984,378 79,690,590 _
Noncurrent liabilities:
Net OPEB liability 9,481,590 1,408,025 10,889,615
Net pension liability 269,036,271 18,451,401 287,487,672
Compensated absences - due in more than one year 7,367,905 979,997 8,347,902
Claims payable - due in more than one year 13,854,000 - 13,854,000
Landfill postclosure cost payable - due in more than one year 1,613,688 - 1,613,688
Long-term debt - due in more than one year 80,695,504 612,085,555 692,781,059
Total noncurrent liabilities 382,048,958 632,924,978 1,014,973,936
Total liabilities 450,755,170 643,909,356 1,094,664,526
DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Deferred gain on refunding - 16,156,892 16,156,892
Related to leases 9,222,294 - 9,222,294
Related to OPEB 1,783,054 264,788 2,047,842
Related to pensions 414,055 98,770 512,825
Total deferred inflows of resources 11,419,403 16,520,450 27,939,853
NET POSITION
Net investment in capital assets 412,852,193 205,982,094 618,834,287
Restricted:
Housing and economic development 11,827,816 - 11,827,816
Capital projects 54,867,835 - 54,867,835
Debt service 8,141,815 - 8,141,815
Other purposes 36,377,646 - 36,377,646
Total restricted 111,215,112 - 111,215,112
Unrestricted (deficit) (53,862,081) 184,575,261 130,713,180
Total net position $ 470,205,224 $ 390,557,355 $ 860,762,579

51 of 240


--- page 52 ---
City of San Mateo
Statement of Activities
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Program Revenues

Operating Capital
Charges for Grants and Grants and
Functions/Programs Expenses Services Contributions Contributions Total
Primary government:
Governmental activities:
General government $ = 27,773,248 $ 6,755,941 $ 1,658,225 $ 241,646 §$ 8,655,812
Community development 14,269,937 12,636,122 1,189,784 - 13,825,906
Public safety 92,903,796 4,132,856 1,963,540 - 6,096,396
Public works 31,088,776 8,506,152 5,548,368 5,486,731 19,541,251
Parks and recreation 24,598,631 7,662,922 313,404 7,519,597 15,495,923
Library 10,598,001 381,127 330,136 - 711,263
Interest on long-term debt 2,407,407 - - - -
Total governmental activities 203,639,796 40,075,120 11,003,457 13,247,974 64,326,551
Business-type activities:
Sewer 45,059,021 81,333,394 - 8,179,541 89,512,935
Total business-type activities 45,059,021 81,333,394 - 8,179,541 89,512,935
Total primary government $ 248,698,817 $ 121,408,514 §$ 11,003,457 $ 21,427,515 $ 153,839,486

See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.

32
52 of 240


--- page 53 ---
City of San Mateo

Statement of Activities (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Functions/Programs

Primary government:
Governmental activities:
General government
Community development
Public safety
Public works
Parks and recreation
Library
Interest on long-term debt
Total governmental activities

Business-type activities:
Sewer

Total business-type activities

Total primary government

General Revenues and Transfers:
General revenues:
Taxes:

Property taxes
Sales taxes
Property transfer taxes
Transient occupancy taxes
Business license taxes
Franchise taxes
Other taxes

Total taxes

Investment income
Miscellaneous revenue

Total general revenues and transfers

Change in net position

Net Position:
Beginning of year

End of year

See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.

33

Net (Expense) Revenue

and Changes in Net Position

Governmental
Activities

$ (19,117,436)
(444,031)
(86,807,400)
(11,547,525)
(9,102,708)
(9,886,738)
(2,407,407)

(139,313,245)

(139,313,245)

81,331,244
32,380,449
8,634,762
6,213,752
8,531,756
3,403,374
230,617

140,725,954

15,375,641
2,010,153

158,111,748

18,798,503

451,406,721

$ 470,205,224

Business-Type
Activities

$ -

44,453,914

44,453,914
44,453,914

9,342,754
848,548

10,191,302
54,645,216

335,912,139

$ 390,557,355

Total

PF

(19,117,436)
(444,031)
(86,807,400)
(11,547,525)
(9,102,708)
(9,886,738)
(2,407,407)

(139,313,245)

44,453,914

44,453,914

(94,859,331)

81,331,244
32,380,449
8,634,762
6,213,752
8,531,756
3,403,374
230,617

140,725,954

24,718,395
2,858,701

168,303,050

73,443,719

787,318,860

$ 860,762,579

53 of 240


--- page 54 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

34
54 of 240


--- page 55 ---
FUND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

35
55 of 240


--- page 56 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

36
56 of 240


--- page 57 ---
Governmental Funds Financial Statements

General Fund - This fund accounts for all revenues and expenditures used to finance the traditional services associated
with a municipal government which are not accounted for in the other funds. In San Mateo, these services include
general government, community development, public safety, public works, parks and recreation, and library services.

General Capital Projects Fund - This fund accounts for the expenditures for capital improvements for the City,
including equipment, acquisition and construction of parks, recreation areas, public safety facilities or other public
works. The primary sources of funding are intergovernmental revenues, Measure A (half cent sales tax), developer
impact fees and transfers from other governmental funds.

37
57 of 240


--- page 58 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

38
58 of 240


--- page 59 ---
ASSETS

Cash and investments

Restricted cash and investments held by fiscal agents

Accounts receivable, net

Interest receivable

Taxes receivable

Grants receivable

Leases receivable

Prepaid items, inventory, and deposits
Loans and notes receivable, net

Total assets

LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS OF
RESOURCES, AND FUND BALANCES

Liabilities:
Accounts payable
Retention payable
Accrued payroll
Deposits payable
Unearned revenues

Total liabilities

DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Unavailable revenue
Related to leases

Total deferred inflows of resources

Fund Balances:
Nonspendable
Restricted
Assigned
Unassigned

Total fund balances

Total liabilities, deferred inflows of
resources, and fund balances

See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.

City of San Mateo

Balance Sheet

Governmental Funds

June 30, 2024
Major Funds
General
General Capital Projects
Fund Fund
$ 127,335,266 $ 64,624,532
- 21,180,475
1,693,036 221,822
2,210,243 -
6,878,649 241,779
234,372 2,503,716
10,032,574 -
304,759 -
- 373,357
$ 148,688,899 $ 89,145,681
$ 4,431,109 $ 23,918,294
- 5,029,210
2,495,736 -
12,892,520 -
—_ 1,689,899 1,335,343
21,509,264 30,282,847
- 55,757
9,222,294 -
9,222,294 55,757
304,759 -
550,000 32,211,408
11,443,226 26,595,669
105,659,356 -
117,957,341 58,807,077
$ 148,688,899 _$ 89,145,681
39

Non-major
Governmental
Funds

$ 98,325,201
35,883

854,909

804,708

549,528

3,520,127

$ 104,090,356

$ 1,531,845

260,875
2,627,574

4,420,294

297,868

297,868

99,372,194

99,372,194

104,090,356

$__104,090,356_

Total
Governmental
Funds

$ 290,284,999
21,216,358
2,769,767
2,210,243
7,925,136
3,287,616
10,032,574
304,759
3,893,484

$__ 341,924,936

$ 29,881,248
5,029,210
2,495,736

13,153,395
5,652,816

56,212,405

353,625
9,222,294

9,575,919

304,759
132,133,602
38,038,895
105,659,356

276,136,612

$ 341,924,936

59 of 240


--- page 60 ---
City of San Mateo
Reconciliation of the Governmental Funds Balance Sheet
to the Government-Wide Statement of Net Position
June 30, 2024

Total Fund Balances - Total Governmental Funds $ 276,136,612

Amounts reported for Governmental Activities in the Statement of Net Position were different because:

Unavailable revenue recorded in the fund financial statements resulting from activities in which revenues were
earned but funds were not available are reclassified as revenues in the Government-Wide Financial Statements. 353,625

Capital Assets used in the governmental activities were not financial resources and therefore were not reported in
the Governmental Funds Balance Sheet.

Government-Wide Statement of Net Position 482,534,269
Less: capital assets reported in Internal Service Funds (7,117,646)
Total capital assets 475,416,623

Long-term liabilities are not due and payable in the current period and therefore were not reported in the
Governmental Funds Balance Sheet.
Amount reported in Government-Wide Statement of Net Position

Compensated absences - due within one year (910,640)
Compensated absences - due in more than one year (7,367,905)
Long-term debt - due within one year (5,873,007)
Long-term debt - due in more than one year (80,695,504)
Landfill postclosure cost payable - due within one year (115,264)
Landfill postclosure cost payable - due in more than one year (1,613,688)

Total long-term liabilities (96,576,008)

Deferred amounts related to the refunding of long-term debt were not current financial resources. Therefore, they
were not reported in the Governmental Funds Balance Sheet. This amount is to be amortized over the life of the
long-term debt. 699,287

Investment in joint ventures are not current financial resources. Therefore, they were not reported in the
Governmental Funds Balance Sheet. 12,740,381

Interest payable on long-term debt did not require current financial resources. Therefore, interest payable was not
reported as a liability in the governmental funds. (573,808)

Aggregate net pension liability and total OPEB liability used in the governmental activities were not financial
resources and therefore were not reported in the Governmental Funds Balance Sheet.

Net pension liability (269,036,271)
Net OPEB liability (9,481,590)
(278,517,861)

Deferred outflows of resources related to OPEB and pensions are not available for current period and, therefore,
are deferred in the governmental funds or not recorded in the governmental funds.
Amount reported in Government-Wide Statement of Net Position

Deferred outflows of resources related to OPEB 4,543,847
Deferred outflows of resources related to pensions 52,666,966
Total deferred outflows of resources 57,210,813

Deferred inflows of resources related to OPEB and pensions are not available for current period and, therefore, are
deferred in the governmental funds or not recorded in the governmental funds.
Amount reported in Government-Wide Statement of Net Position

Deferred inflows of resources related to OPEB (1,783,054)
Deferred inflows of resources related to pensions (414,055)
Total deferred inflows of resources (2,197,109)

Internal service funds are used by management to charge the cost of fleet management, risk management,
information technology, and building maintenance to individual funds. The assets and liabilities of the internal
service funds are included in the governmental activities in the statement of net position. 25,512,669

Net Position of Governmental Activities $ 470,205,224

See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.
40
60 of 240


--- page 61 ---
City of San Mateo

Statement of Revenues, Expenditures, and Changes in Fund Balances

REVENUES:

Property taxes

Sales taxes

Other taxes

Licenses, building and other permits
Fines, forfeitures and penalties
Intergovernmental

Charges for services

Investment income

Assessments and garbage collection
Parking meter and lease revenue
Capital contributions

Other revenues

Total revenues

EXPENDITURES:

Current:
General government:
City Council
City Manager
City Clerk
City Attorney
Finance
Information technology
Human resources
Community development
Public safety:
Police
Fire
Public works
Parks and recreation
Library
Non-departmental
Capital outlay
Debt service:
Principal
Interest and fiscal charges

Total expenditures

Governmental Funds
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Total
Governmental

$ 81,331,244
32,380,449
26,771,455

7,345,890
3,242,892
13,522,487
21,178,777
13,744,895
2,897,760
3,199,677
9,764,955
5,340,645

—_—_—_—_—_—

Formerly

Major Funds Major Fund

Construction

General Services Non-major
General Capital Projects Special Revenue Governmental
—— Fund _ __ Fund __ Fund Os ___—sFunds — __Funnds

$ 78,606,527 $ - $ 2,724,717
27,772,986 4,607,463 -
25,883,776 - 887,679
97,101 40 7,248,749
3,024,160 - 218,732
3,066,664 2,875,692 7,580,131
15,607,445 - 5,571,332
8,470,713 755,722 4,518,460
- 537,912 2,359,848
3,199,677 - -
- 1,074,216 8,690,739
4.284.746 368,360 687,539
170,013,795 10,219,405 40,487,926

319,813 -
2,305,807 -

785,263 -
1,265,970 -
4,220,237 -
3,979,491 -
2,169,288 -
1,729,511 -

59,056,241 -
27,509,727 -
10,831,430 -
21,136,909 -
8,619,895 -
9,678,356 -
1,386,609 26,110,259
2,353,226 607,946
249,630 37,694

————$—$—$—$—$—_—_—_——— ——————— — —__________

157,597,403 26,755,899

REVENUES OVER (UNDER) EXPENDITURES 12,416,392 (16,536,494)

OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):

Proceeds from sale of property
Inception of subscription liability
Transfers in

Transfers out

Total other financing sources (uses)
NET CHANGE IN FUND BALANCES

FUND BALANCES:
Beginning of year, as previously reported

Change with financial reporting entity
(major to non major fund)

Beginning of year, as restated (Note 19)
End of year

21,354 -
1,076,231 -
7,247,433 21,157,125

(20,683,288) -
12,338,270 21,157,125
78,122 4,620,631

125,014
229,587
123,895
12,132,829
960,900

4,775,586

289,750
118,568

2,995,000
2,519,507

——————

24,270,636

16,217,290

2,691,887
(10,909,609)

(8,217,722)
7,999,568

220,721,126

319,813
2,430,821
785,263
1,495,557
4,220,237
4,103,386
2,169,288
13,862,340

60,017,141
27,509,727
15,607,016
21,136,909

8,619,895

9,968,106
27,615,436

5,956,172
2,806,831

—_—_—_—_—

208,623,938

12,097,188

21,354
1,076,231
31,096,445
(31,592,897)
601,133

—<<—<__—___

12,698,321

117,879,219 54,186,446 32,627,760 58,744,866 263,438,291

117,879,219 54,186,446

(32,627,760) 32,627,760

91,372,626

263,438,291

$ 117,957,341 _$ 58.807.077_ _$ -_ _$ 99,372,194 _$ 276,136,612

See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.

41

61 of 240


--- page 62 ---
City of San Mateo
Reconciliation of the Governmental Funds Statement of Revenues, Expenditures, and Changes
in Fund Balances to the Government-Wide Statement of Activities and Changes in Net Position
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Net Change in Fund Balances - Total Governmental Funds $ 12,698,321

Amounts reported for Governmental Activities in the Statement of Net Position were different because:

Governmental funds reported capital outlay as expenditures. However, in the Government-Wide Statement of Activities
and Changes in Net Position the cost of those assets was allocated over their estimated useful lives as depreciation
expenses. This is the amount of capital assets recorded in the current period (net of $1,788,474 added in internal
service funds) ($1,159,807 of the governmental fund capital outlay balance were for repairs and maintenance
expenditures). 28,070,051

Depreciation and amortization expense on capital assets was reported in the Government-Wide Statement of Activities
and Changes in Net Position, but they did not require the use of current financial resources. Therefore, depreciation
and amortization expense, net of internal service funds of $1,135,439, was not reported as expenditures in the
Governmental Funds. (21,642,987)

The net effect of various miscellaneous transactions involving capital assets (i.e. sales, trade-ins, and donations)
decreased net position (net of $74,946 reported in the internal services fund). (589,635)

Repayment of long-term liabilities was an expenditures in governmental funds, but the repayment reduced long-term

liabilities in the Government-Wide Statement of Net Position.
Principal payment of long-term debt 5,956,172
Amortization of bond premium 490,640

Deferred amounts related to the refunding of long-term debt were not current financial resources. Therefore, they were
not reported in the Governmental Funds Balance Sheet. This amount is to be amortized over the life of the long-term

debt. (122,345)
Interest expense on long-term debt was reported in the Government-Wide Statement of Activities, but it did not require
the use of current financial resources. This amount represented the changes in accrued interest from prior year. 31,129

Payment of landfill closure and postclosure cost payable was an expenditure in governmental funds, but the payment
reduced landfill closure and postclosure cost liabilities in the Government-Wide Statement of Net Position. Increases in
the liability were reflected as expenses in the Government-Wide Statement of Activities, however, no expenditures are
reported in the governmental funds. (60,079)

Compensated absences expenses reported in the Government-Wide Statement of Activities do not require the use of
current financial resources and, therefore, are not reported as expenditures in the governmental funds. (284,711)

Revenues that are not considered to be available are reported as unavailable revenues in the governmental funds,
however, these amounts are recognized in the Government-Wide Statement of Activities. This amount represents the
change in unavailable revenues. 68,591

Investment in joint ventures are not current financial resources. Therefore, they were not reported in the Governmental
Funds Balance Sheet. This amount represents the change in joint ventures. 255,799

Certain pension expenses reported in the Government-Wide Statement of Activities do not require the use of current
financial resources and therefore, are not reported as expenditures in governmental funds.

Changes in pension related deferred outflows of resources (8,322,107)
Changes in net pension liabilities (7,902,472)
Changes in pension related deferred inflows of resources 761,612

Certain OPEB expenses reported in the Government-Wide Statement of Activities do not require the use of current
financial resources and therefore, are not reported as expenditures in governmental funds.

Changes in OPEB related deferred outflows of resources 2,913,166
Changes in total OPEB liabilities (2,143,918)
Changes in OPEB related deferred inflows of resources (321,635)

The internal service funds are used by management to charge the costs of fleet maintenance, facilities maintenance, and
technology to individual funds. The net revenue of certain activities of internal service funds is reported with
governmental activities. 10,019,142

Change in Net Position of Governmental Activities $ 18,798,503

See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.

42
62 of 240


--- page 63 ---
Proprietary Funds Financial Statements
Sewer Fund - This fund is used to account for the activities of the City's wastewater collection and treatment operations.

Internal Service Funds - These funds are used to provide goods and services by one department or agency to other
departments or agencies of the City on a cost reimbursement basis.

43
63 of 240


--- page 64 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

44
64 of 240


--- page 65 ---
City of San Mateo
Statement of Net Position
Proprietary Funds

June 30, 2024
Major Fund Governmental
Activities
Sewer Internal
Fund Service Funds _
ASSETS
Current assets:
Cash and investments $ 133,397,595 $ 35,942,150
Accounts receivable, net 36,099,027 723,787
Interest receivable 643,703 -
Prepaid items, inventory, and deposits - 604,174
Total current assets 170,140,325 37,270,111
Noncurrent assets:
Restricted cash and investments 51,978,422 -
Loans and notes receivable, net 38,999,057 -
Capital assets:
Non-depreciable 613,717,839 -
Depreciable, net 170,526,248 7,117,646
Total capital assets 784,244,087 7,117,646
Total noncurrent assets 875,221,566 7,117,646
Total assets 1,045,361,891 44,387,757
DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Related to OPEB 674,767 -
Related to pensions 4,950,503 -
Total deferred outflow of resources 5,625,270 -
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable 1,085,688 864,074
Deposits payable 1,057,256 113,014
Interest payable 6,722,343 -
Compensated absences - due within one year 121,123 -
Claims payable - due within one year - 4,044,000
Long-term debt - due within one year 1,997,968 -
Total current liabilities 10,984,378 5,021,088
Noncurrent liabilities:
Net OPEB liability 1,408,025 -
Net pension liability 18,451,401 -
Compensated absences - due in more than one year 979,997 -
Claims payable - due in more than one year - 13,854,000
Long term debt - due in more than one year 612,085,555 -
Total noncurrent liabilities 632,924,978 13,854,000
Total liabilities 643,909,356 18,875,088
DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Deferred gain on refunding 16,156,892 -
Related to OPEB 264,788 -
Related to pensions 98,770 -
Total deferred inflows of resources 16,520,450 -
NET POSITION
Net investment in capital assets 205,982,094 7,117,646
Unrestricted 184,575,261 18,395,023
Total net position $ 390,557,355 $ 25,512,669

See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.

45
65 of 240


--- page 66 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

46
66 of 240


--- page 67 ---
City of San Mateo

Statement of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position

Proprietary Funds

For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

OPERATING REVENUES:

Charges for services
Connection fees
Other

Total operating revenues

OPERATING EXPENSES:

Personnel services
Materials and supplies
Depreciation and amortization

Total operating expenses

OPERATING INCOME
NONOPERATING REVENUES (EXPENSES):

Investment income
Gain (loss) on sale of capital assets
Interest expense

Total nonoperating revenues (expenses)

INCOME BEFORE CAPITAL
CONTRIBUTIONS AND TRANSFERS

CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS AND TRANSFERS

Capital contributions
Impact fees
Transfers in
Transfers out

Total capital contributions and transfers
Changes in net position

NET POSITION:
Beginning of year

End of year

See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.

Major Fund Governmental
Activities
Sewer Internal
Fund Service Funds

$ 80,502,873 $ 59,753,522

830,521 -
848,548 10,579,772
82,181,942 70,333,294
12,850,005 46,124,609
14,555,427 15,138,472
5,635,414 1,271,051
33,040,846 62,534,132
49,141,096 7,799,162
9,342,754 1,648,582

- 74,946
(12,018,175) -
(2,675,421) 1,723,528
46,465,675 9,522,690
7,860,150 -
319,391 -

- 1,410,000
- (913,548)

8,179,541 496,452
54,645,216 10,019,142
335,912,139 15,493,527

$ 390,557,355 $ 25,512,669

47
67 of 240


--- page 68 ---
City of San Mateo
Statement of Cash Flows
Proprietary Funds

For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Major Fund Governmental
Activities
Sewer Internal
Fund Service Funds
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Cash received from customers $ 64,454,315 $ 59,759,772
Cash payments to suppliers for goods and services (14,569,131) (23,755,401)
Cash payments to employees for services (11,962,401) (46,236,108)
Cash received from others 848,548 10,579,772
Net cash provided by operating activities 38,771,331 348,035
CASH FLOWS FROM NONCAPITAL FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
Interfund borrowing (lending) - 87,868
Repayment of interfund borrowing (lending) - (87,868)
Transfers in - 1,410,000
Transfers out - (913,548)
Net cash provided by noncapital financing activities - 496,452
CASH FLOWS FROM CAPITAL AND
RELATED FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
Impact fees 319,391 -
Proceeds from sale of capital assets - 95,291
Acquisition of capital assets, net (82,613,901) (2,247,489)
Proceeds from issuance of debt 295,479,360 -
Principal payment of long-term debt (273,467,796) -
Interest paid on debt and fiscal charges (33,213,724) -
Net cash (used in) capital and related financing activities (93,496,670) (2,152,198)
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
Interest from investments 9,473,027 1,648,582
Net cash provided by investing activities 9,473,027 1,648,582
Net change in cash and cash equivalents (45,252,312) 340,871
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS:
Beginning of year 230,628,329 35,601,279
End of year $__ 185,376,017. _$ 35,942,150
RECONCILIATION OF CASH AND CASH
EQUIVALENTS TO STATEMENT OF NET POSITION:
Cash and cash investments $ 133,397,595 $ 35,942,150
Restricted cash and investments 519784220 ee
Total cash and cash equivalents _$ 185,376,017. _$ _35,942,150_

See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.
48
68 of 240


--- page 69 ---
City of San Mateo
Statement of Cash Flows (Continued)
Proprietary Funds

For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Major Fund Governmental
Activities
Sewer Internal
Fund Service Funds

RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING INCOME TO NET
CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Operating income $ 49,141,096 §$ 7,799,162
Adjustments to reconcile operating income to net
cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization 5,635,414 1,271,051
Changes in operating assets and liabilities, and
deferred outflows and inflows of resources:

Accounts receivable, net (16,868,848) 6,250
Deferred outflows - OPEB related (432,609) -
Deferred outflows - pension related 314,507 -
Accounts payable (13,704) 35,672
Deposits payable (10,231) 47,900
Compensated absences (7,205) -
Claims payable - (8,812,000)
Net OPEB liability 318,374 -
Net pension liability 828,452 -
Deferred inflows - OPEB related 47,763 -
Deferred inflows - pension related (181,678) -
Total adjustments (10,369,765) (7,451,127)
Net cash provided by operating activities $38,771,331 _$ 348,035

See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.

49
69 of 240


--- page 70 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

50
70 of 240


--- page 71 ---
Fiduciary Funds Financial Statements

Custodial funds - These funds are used to report fiduciary activities that are not required to be reported in pension (and
other employee benefit) trust funds, investment trust funds, or private purpose trust funds. This includes the San Mateo
Consolidated Fire Department Custodial Fund, CFD 2008-1 Custodial Fund, and Other Custodial Fund.

Private Purpose Funds - These funds account for resources of all other trust arrangements in which principal and
income benefit individuals, private organizations, or other governments (i.e. unclaimed property/escheat property). This
includes the RDA Obligation Retirement Fund (RORF), Successor Agency to RDA Merged Area Fund, and the
Successor Agency to RDA Housing Fund.

51
71 of 240


--- page 72 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

52
72 of 240


--- page 73 ---
Statement of Fiduciary Net Position

ASSETS

Cash and investments
Restricted cash and investments with fiscal agent

Total assets

DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Deferred loss on refunding

Total deferred outflows of resources

LIABILITIES
Accounts payable
Interest payable
Long-term debt - due within one year
Long-term debt - due in more than one year

Total liabilities

NET POSITION (DEFICIT)

Restricted for:
Individuals, organizations, and other governments
Held in trust for dissolution of RDA

Total net position (deficit)

See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.

City of San Mateo

Fiduciary Funds
June 30, 2024

53

Custodial
Funds

$ 3,538,712
3,579,205

7,117,917

147,115

147,115

6,970,802

$ 6,970,802

Private Purpose

Trust Funds

$ 5,175,557
1

5,175,558

113,013
113,013

3,188
710,209
4,270,000
33,100,992

38,084,389

(32,795,818)
$ (32,795,818)

73 of 240


--- page 74 ---
Statement of Changes in Fiduciary Net Position

ADDITIONS:

Fee collections for other governments
Special assessments for other governments
Investment income

RDA property tax trust fund distribution

Total additions

DEDUCTIONS:

Administration

Payments on conduit bonds - interest
Payments on conduit bonds - principal
Interest expense

Total deductions
Change in net position

NET POSITION (DEFICIT):
Beginning of year

End of period

City of San Mateo

Fiduciary Funds
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.

54

Custodial
Funds

$ 420,134
4,940,334
181,313

5,541,781

74,357
3,724,713
1,357,527

5,156,597

385,184

6,585,618

S_6,970,802_

Private Purpose
Trust Funds

$ -

1,084
5,994,500

5,995,584

23,188

1,252,679
1,275,867

4,719,717

(37,515,535)
-$ (32,795,818)

74 of 240


--- page 75 ---
NOTES TO THE BASIC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

55
75 of 240


--- page 76 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

56
76 of 240


--- page 77 ---
City of San Mateo
Index of Notes to the Basic Financial Statements
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

57
77 of 240

Page
Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies ...............scsccsssssccsssssssecsssssesssssssesessssssosssessssesessssseseosssesooss 61
A. Financial Reporting Entity ........ccccccccccscccsscesseesseesseenseceseceseenseceseeesaesseecsaeceseceseeeseeeseeseeseeeseseseeseseenseeeseenss 61
B. Basis of Presentation, Accounting and Measurement FOCUS .0........eeeeseeseseeceseeseceeeeseeseceesaeeseessesaeeeenaes 62
C. Deferred Outflows and Inflows of ReSOULCES .........cccccceeseeseeeseeseeseeeceeseeseeeceeaecseeeaeeaecaeeceeaesaeeeaeeeeeaeeaeeaees 65
D. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments ..........eeceeeeseeseesseeseeeesseeseesceeseeaduececseescecaecaeceaesaeseeeeneeaeeeeeeateaes 65
E. Restricted Cash and Investment ............::ccscesceeseeseeesceseesecsceeseeseeeseeseesudeecsecedeseeescesscsacesecsecsscesseseeasessenees 66
F, Receivables wee eeesseeseessesseesecesesseesseesecseeesecseesaesseeeseseesecssessecssesaaesaesdecsecseesuecesessecaeeeeeesecseceeeeseeaeeeneenees 67
G. Interfiund Tramsactions ........:ccssccssssssscssssssssssscssscossssscsssscsscsseee Ml Mpeos Mpscesscssscseatseacccescsesccesceceeenseseetsereesees 67
H. Inventories and Prepaid Items............ccccceccescessesseessestueccescenecesessscescsdaesceeseesecsseeseessccsscsecesscssceesessesseseeseeaes 67
I. Leases...........ssssessnsasarancancrvenaceamere cavevessnces egg gs emma De acca waeeg onset TERE ETE esac veecvennceenscevensceensneens 67
J. Subscription-Based Information Technology Arrangements (SBITAS) .........cesesceeseeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeseeeeeaes 68
K. Capital Assets........ccccccecscssscssscssseessdsececesecescecsceuseeessecsecnseceseceseecseecesecaeceseesseesaeecssecesecesseesseeseeeseesnesenssenges 69
L, Long-Term D8 itiazasaicrorsusnannss slg nses Rqurenseanencwen axe renesmnene ame RRANORESO SD AOEROSNEIMERERINS ++ esasevevoconsovonesoeonenssans 70
M. Compensated ADSeNCES........cccceccessteescessscesccesccsscecssecssecssecsseceseeseeseeeseeeceseceseceseessaecssscesscesscesseeseseasenseeenes 71
N. Claims and JudgementsfPayatlell ..........:cc...-ccsccssssscssssscssssssscsssssccsssssnesccsncensesscnnsesccesccesceccersceesensenscssenevees 71
O. Pension Plans ccc... ces eeceeesceeseceseeeeeceeceesseeeseeeseeeeecsecaecaeceseeeseecsuecsaeeeaeeseeeseeeseneeeseceseeeseenseeeseeeseeeeeeseneenaes 71
P. Other Postemployment Benefits (OPEB).............ccecsssesecesceseceeesseeseeeceesecseeeaeeaeseeeesesecnesseseeeesecseeeeeaeenees 72
Q. Furnd Balances ........cccccccccscccsssceessecesssecessecesssccessecesseccessecesssecessecesseccessecesseecessecenseeceeseceesseceseecesesesseeseseees 72
R. Net Position .....c.ececcccceccssccescssesseceecesecsececeesecsecesecseccessessecesessesceesecseseaessecscesessececesseseesceesecseeeseeseseeeeaeenees 73
S. Property Taxes 0... cccsccsscsccssessecsseesecsecssecsecssessececesessecesesseceeeesecseceeeseceeeesesseeesessececeseecesseceesseeeeenesaeees 73
T. Use of Accounting Estimates ..........ccccccceccescssseeseeseseceeseeseceneeaecseeaeesessceeaecsecsaeeaessaeeaesaeeceeaesaeeeseeseeenseaeeaees 74
U. Implementation of New GASB Pronouncements for the Year Ended June 30, 2024.00... ceeeeseeeeeeeeees 74
V. Upcoming Government Accounting Standards Implementations..............::cccccsceesscesscetseeseeeseeeseeeseeenseeaes 74
Note 2 — Cash and Investment ............cccscsssssssscssscssscssscnsscssscsssssssssssscssscsssssssssssssessscessssssssssssssssssesssssssesssessscsscssoess 75
A. Demand Deposits .........cecccecceesccesceeeseseseececececeaeeeaneesneesnecscecsaeceaeceaeesaeeeseesacesscecsaecaeceaeeeaeesseeeaeesseeseeeesaeenaes 76
B. Investments Authorized by the California Government
Code and the City’s Investment Policy ........cccccccccsscesseeeseceseesseceseceseeeseecseeceeeeeeseeeceseceaseseeeteeeseesasees 76
C. Fair Value Measurement ...........cccesccesseesseeeneceeeeseceseeeseceseecseecneceseceaeceaeceseeseeceneceaeceneseaeceaeeeaeeeeeeneeeseeesaes 77
D. Risk Disclosure ..........::ceccesceeceeseeseeeceeseesceceesecsceesecseceecsaeeaecsceaecsesaessecaaeaecaeseaeesecsaseaesaesaeeaeseeeseeaeeeaeeaeeaes 79
E. Investment in State Investment POO]...........ccceccesceeceeseeseeesceseeseeeecesecseeceesecseceaeeaeceeeaesaeeeeeeseceeeseeaeeeneeaseates 82
F. Investment in California Asset Management Program (CAMP) .......c.cccccecscssecesseseeeeeeeeeeeeecseeceseenseenseenes 82
G. Investment in San Mateo County Investment POO]... ei ceceseesecseeeseeteceeesseesecseesseeseeeserseeenesseceeeeeaeenees 82
Note 3 — Loans and Notes Receivable .............sccssccsscsssssssssssssssscssscssscsssessscssssssssssessessossscsssssascssscsssssessssssssssssssosesonese 83
Note 4 — Lease Receivable .............sscssrsssssscsssssscsscsecssscosssesssrsessscsssssesssssosssssseseossssssossosssessssossscsscesossscssosssssseseosssesooss 88
Note 5 — Interfund Transfers..............ccccsrcscsresrsesscerssssssssersssssessessesssessssseeseessoeseeressssessossessosssessossessessossoesossoesoess 90
Note 6 — Capital Assets ..............sccsssccsccsccsccecsssecssccsssccsssccessscessccscsccccssccscscccessccsssccsssccesssccssscssssccsescsesssccsesccessscessssesenees 90
A. Governmental Activities .......cccecceceescceseeseesececeesecseeeseeseeseesecsesseesaeesessceeaecsecsaeeaeseeeeaesaeseceeaecaeeeaeeaeeeeseaeeaees 90
B. Business-Type Activities ........ccccccccsscssscssscsssessseessecssecssscesscessceseesseesseecesecessceseeeseeeseeeescsssssaesseesereseseseneeegs 91


--- page 78 ---
City of San Mateo
Index of Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Page
Note 7 — Long-Term Liabilities ..............scssccsssscsscsssssssescscssssesessesssssscsseesorsscsssssnssssseosensssessossssssessossscssssosssessossoesooss 92
AL SUMIMALY 0c cecccceseccssccessseeceseeeeeneesesnecesaeeceseecesaeceeaeeesaaeceeseeesaaeceaecesaaeceeaecceaeesesaessaeeseseeenaeeseaseceeaeeneaees 92
B. Governmental Activities 0.0... ceecesscessecsseesneceeceeeeseeescecseeceeceneceseceaeceaeeeseesscecneceaeceaeeeaeceaeeeseeeseeeneeeneeseaes 93
C. Business-Type Activities ......cceccceeccesecesecessceecesecesscescecsceceaeceaeceseeescesscecscecaeseaeeeaeseaeesseeeseeeaeesseeeeeeseeeeeaes 98

D. Fiduciary Funds Private Purpose Trust Funds - Successor Agency to
the Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Mateo... ce cettscsessteeeceecssscssceseseceeeesecseeeseeseenes 103
Note 8 — Special Assessment Debt with No City Commitment ................ccsccssssccsssscssccscsscccscscscsccscscscssssssosesosessess 104
Note 9 — Compensated ADSENCES ........ccscccsssesccecsseoscsoscen Rc MMe Mnse Pooosesnscsnecseessconsoenscosesoncsoerseanseasseanssoseveneses 105
A. Governmental Activities 0.0... ce cecetessessccesceseceteesedecceccesececceaecsecsaeesecseeaeesecaesaesaeeaeceeeaecseseneeaeeteereeaeeas 105
B. Business-T ype AGhiviies caconucligg eso Ri nresenerensensnanenseceeunaasenenemmrenvnreneranesnMenUReHia oo esscessereeoeeoseseterarererores 105
Note 10 — Landfill Closure ......0,..Si Mag. Ree Beccccssssccecccsssensccssessecceassnscecssnssesceassnccecssnssenceassusceacsovoossscssesssrscnsoesessoosees 105
Note 11 — Pension Plams...R gi... Qpacccccssccscecscsccccccssccsccccsscscscsssccssecsseasescccscccsecssecssacssasscasscasccscsscossoossosssocssccoscossees 106
A, SUMIMALY 00... eee eccceceseceseeeeeeecececeeneeeeseecsaeeeeaeeceseeceeaeecssaeceeaeceeseecssaeceeaeeseseeessneceeaeeseeaeeseseeseeeeesaeeseaeeenags 106
B. General Information about Pension ............c:ccesceesscesscesecesseeeseceseeeseeeseecseecseecsaeceaeceseeeseeeeeseaeceaeeearenaeeeaeees 107
C. Social Security oo... ceeccececeeseeseesceeseeseeseeeseeseseeesaesseceaeeaecaecsaessecseceaessecaesaeseeesesaeceaeeseceeseseeseseeeaeeaeeeeeeaeeas 112
Note 12 — Other Postemployment Bemefits................cccccscsssssssssssssssssssscsscssscssscsssessssssssvesscesscnsssssscsscssssssssnsssnesees 113
A, SUMMALY 200... eeecccceecceesecesceeeeneeeeseecesneceaeessaneessaeeseaeeessaeeesaeecsaneesaeessacecsenseseaeeeseneseeaeecsaeeensneeeseeesaneenenees 113
B. General Information about OPEB ..0.......cceeeesesseeeceeseeececeeseeeeeecessecseceaeeseceaeesecseceaesaeceaeeaeeeeeeseseteeeaeeaeed 113

C. Net OPEB Liability, OPEB Expense and Deferred Outflows/Inflows
of Resources Related to OPEB .0........ccceeceecceeseeceeseeseeeseeseeeceeseeseeeeeesecaecaeeaeceeeeaeeaeseaeeaeeaeeeseeaeeeenaeeaes 114
Note 13 — Risk Management ..............sccccsscsssssscsscessssscsscsssssscsssssscssesssssssessncsesscnssnescssensssaseesssessessessscsscssossscsssssnaseesees 117
VNC ©1010) 00° eee 117
B. Claims Activity oo... ce cessescssecsecesessececeesesecesessecscessecsecesessecsecsessecsceesecseeeaesseceesseeseseseesesseceeeesesaeeeseeaeed 117
Note 14 — Joint Ventures .............csccsccsecssesssscssscnsscnssenssssescescnscnessnescnssssssssssssesscesceessnessnesssessscssscessesscecsssssssessoeseee 117
Note 15 — Other Required Disclosures..............sssccscssssssccscssscsscesssssssscesssssssscessssscessnsseescesssessessessscsscesessscssessoessesees 119
A. Deficit Fund Balances/Net Position .........ccecesseceseesecesceseesececeesesseceseesecsecesecseccesaeseeesessecaeeaeeseseeeeaeeneed 119
B. Expenditures Exceeding Appropriations.............cccccecccesccesceesceeeceeeseeeseceaeceaeeescesscecsceceaeeeaeeeseeseeseeesnenseees 119
Note 16 — Fund Balance Classificatiom.............csccssccssscssscssscssscsscssssssssssssssscssscsssssescssssssssscssscsssssscsscesscsessssssesses 120
Note 17 — Net Investment in Capital Assets.............cscccsscssssssssssscssscssssscsssccssccscsescssesesssesssssescssscssscssscssosesssessseseoes 121
Note 18 — Successor Agency Private Purpose Trust For Assets of Former Redevelopment................ssssecseseees 121

58

78 of 240


--- page 79 ---
City of San Mateo
Index of Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Page

Note 19 — Changes to or within the Financial Reporting Entity ..............cscsscssccssssscssessssesesssessesseseesscesesseeseesees 122
Note 20 — Commitments and Contingencies................cssccscsccsssssssssccsccccssccessssccscscesscccsssccessscsesscssesccesscsssscssssscsesseeees 123
A. Litigation... eececccececeseceeeeneeeseeescesscecsaeceaeceaeceaceescessceceaeceaeceaeeeaeeeacecseessceseaeseseceaeesseeseeseaeseaeseaeeeaeenaeees 123

B. Contingent Liabilities... ec esesseeseesececesecsseeseeseeeseeseeaeesessaeeseeseeesegaduececseceesaesesseesaesereeaesaeeeneeated 123

C. Federal and State Grants ..........ccccsceescsscesceeseeseeceeseesceeseesecseesecseeeseeseesseceeceeedecseeesecsesesecsecacseceseesseessensens 123

D. Contractual Commitment .0..........ccccessesesessceeeseeeseeeseceeeesceceaeceseceseeeucecsddusceceaeeuaeecsacesecesecessceseceseeeseeeneees 123

59
79 of 240


--- page 80 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

60
80 of 240


--- page 81 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

The basic financial statements of the City of San Mateo, California (the “City”) have been prepared in conformity with
Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) as applied to governmental
agencies. The Governmental Accounting Standards Board (“GASB”) is the accepted standard-setting body for
establishing governmental accounting and financial reporting standards in the United States. The more significant of
the City’s accounting policies are described below.

A. Financial Reporting Entity

The City was incorporated as a charter city on September 4, 1894; the current charter was adopted in 1971 and
revised in 2002. The City operates under the Council-Manager form of government and provides the following
services: police; building inspection; parks and streets; sanitation; leisure services; planning and zoning; general
administration services; and redevelopment.

Blended Component Units

The financial reporting entity consists of the primary government, the City, and its component units. Component
units are legally separate entities for which the elected officials of the primary government are financially
accountable. In addition, component units can be other organizations for which the primary government is
accountable and their exclusion would cause the reporting entity’s financial statements to be misleading or
incomplete.

Blended component units, although legally separate entities, are, in substance part of the government’s operation
and so data from these units are combined with data of the primary government. Discretely presented component
units, on the other hand, are reported in a separate column in the combined financial statements to emphasize that
they are legally separate from the government.

Although the following are legally separate from the City, they have been “blended” as though they are part of the
City because the component unit’s governing body is substantially the same as the City’s and there is a financial
benefit or burden relationship between the City and the component unit; management of the City has operational
responsibilities for the component units; and/or the component units provide services entirely, or almost entirely,
to the City or otherwise exclusively, or almost exclusively, benefits the City, even though it does not provide
services directly to it.

San Mateo Joint Powers Financing Authority (JPFA)

The San Mateo Joint Powers Financing Authority (“JPFA”) was created in 1993. The Financing Authority is a joint
exercise of joint powers. The City Council serves as directors of the JPFA. The purpose of the JPFA is to act as a
financing/lending type of entity only. No separate annual financial statements are prepared for the JPFA. Since the
City Council previously served as the government board for this component unit, the City’s component unit was
considered to be a blended component unit. Blended component units, although legally separate entities, are in
substance, part of the City’s operations and financial information was reported with the primary government. The
activities of the JPFA are accounted in the various governmental funds of the City.

61
81 of 240


--- page 82 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
B. Basis of Presentation, Accounting and Measurement Focus

The accounts of the City are organized on the basis of funds, each of which is considered a separate accounting
entity. The operations of each fund are accounted for by providing a separate set of self-balancing accounts that
comprise its assets, deferred outflows of resources, liabilities, deferred inflows of resources, fund equity, revenues
and expenditures or expenses, as appropriate. Fund accounting segregates funds according to their intended purpose
and is used to aid management in demonstrating compliance with finance-related legal and contractual provisions.
The minimum number of funds is maintained in accordance with legal and managerial requirements.

Government-Wide Financial Statements

The City’s Government-Wide Financial Statements include a Statement of Net Position and a Statement of
Activities and Changes in Net Position. These statements present summaries of governmental and business-type
activities for the City accompanied by a total column. Fiduciary activities of the City are not included in these
statements.

These financial statements are presented on an “economic resources” measurement focus and the accrual basis of
accounting. Accordingly, all of the City’s assets and liabilities, including capital assets, as well as infrastructure
assets, and long-term liabilities, are included in the accompanying Statement of Net Position. The Statement of
Activities presents changes in Net Position. Under the accrual basis of accounting, revenues are recognized in the
period in which they are earned while expenses are recognized in the period in which the liability is incurred. Under
the accrual basis of accounting, revenues, expenses, gains, losses, assets, deferred outflows of resources, liabilities,
and deferred inflows of resources resulting from exchange and exchange-like transactions are recognized when the
exchange takes place. Revenues, expenses, gains, losses, assets, deferred outflows of resources, liabilities and
deferred inflows of resources resulting from non-exchange transactions are recognized in accordance with the
requirements of U.S. GAAP.

Program revenues include charges for services, special assessments, and payments made by parties outside of the
reporting government's citizenry if that money is restricted to a particular program. Program revenues are netted
with program expenses in the statement of activities to present the net cost of each program. Program revenues for
the City are classified in three categories:

> Charges for services
> Operating grants and contributions
> Capital grants and contributions

Certain eliminations have been made in regards to interfund activities, payables and receivables. All internal
balances in the Statement of Net Position have been eliminated except those representing balances between the
governmental activities and the business-type activities, which are presented as internal balances and eliminated in
the total primary government column. In the Statement of Activities and Changes in Net Position, internal service
fund transactions have been eliminated; however, those transactions between governmental and business-type
activities have not been eliminated. The following interfund activities have been eliminated:

> Transfers in/out

Governmental Fund Financial Statements include a Balance Sheet and a Statement of Revenues, Expenditures and
Changes in Fund Balances. An accompanying schedule is presented to reconcile and explain the differences in Net
Position as presented in these statements to the Net Position presented in the Government-Wide Financial
Statements. The City has presented all major funds that met the applicable criteria.

62
82 of 240


--- page 83 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
B. Basis of Presentation, Accounting and Measurement Focus (Continued)
Governmental Fund Financial Statements

All governmental funds are accounted for on a spending or “current financial resources" measurement focus and
the modified accrual basis of accounting. Accordingly, only current assets and current liabilities are included on the
Balance Sheet. The Statement of Revenues, Expenditures and Changes in Fund Balances presents increases
(revenues and other financing sources) and decreases (expenditures and other financing uses) in net current assets.
Under the modified accrual basis of accounting, revenues are recognized in the accounting period in which they
become both measurable and available to finance expenditures of the current period. Measurable means that the
amounts can be estimated, or otherwise determined. Available means that the amounts were collected during the
reporting period or soon enough thereafter to be available to finance the expenditures accrued for the reporting
period. The City uses an availability period of 60 days for all revenues except grants, which use a six-month
availability period.

Sales taxes, property taxes, franchise taxes, gas taxes, motor vehicle in-lieu, transient occupancy taxes, grants and
interest associated with the current fiscal period are all considered to be susceptible to accrual and so have been
recognized as revenues of the current fiscal period to the extent normally collected within the availability period.
Other revenue items are considered to be measurable and available when cash is received by the government.

Revenue recognition is subject to the measurable and available criteria for the governmental funds in the fund
financial statements. Exchange transactions are recognized as revenues in the period in which they are earned
(i.e., the related goods or services are provided). Locally imposed derived tax revenues are recognized as
revenues in the period in which the underlying exchange transaction upon which they are based takes place.
Imposed non-exchange transactions are recognized as revenues in the period for which they were imposed. If the
period of use is not specified, they are recognized as revenues when an enforceable legal claim to the revenues
arises or when they are received, whichever occurs first. Government-mandated and voluntary non-exchange
transactions have been recognized as revenues when all applicable eligibility requirements have been met.

The Reconciliation of the Fund Financial Statements to the Government-Wide Financial Statements is provided to
explain the differences created by the integrated approach of GASB Statement No. 34.

The City reports the following major governmental funds:

General Fund accounts for resources traditionally associated with governmental activities that are not required
legally or by sound financial management to be accounted for in another fund.

General Capital Projects Fund accounts for the expenditures for capital improvements for the City, including
equipment, acquisition, and construction of parks, recreation areas, public safety facilities or other public
works. The primary sources of funding are intergovernmental revenues, Measure A (half cent sales tax),
developer impact fees, and transfers from other governmental funds.

Proprietary Fund Financial Statements

Proprietary Fund Financial Statements include a Statement of Net Position, a Statement of Revenues, Expenses and
Changes in Fund Net Position, and a Statement of Cash Flows for each major Proprietary Fund.

63
83 of 240


--- page 84 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
B. Basis of Presentation, Accounting and Measurement Focus (Continued)

Proprietary Fund Financial Statements (Continued)

A separate column representing internal service funds is also presented in these statements. However, internal
service balances and activities have been combined with the governmental activities in the Government-Wide
Financial Statements. The City’s internal service funds include funds which provide services directly to other City
funds. These areas of service include fleet maintenance, facilities maintenance, and comprehensive liability.

Proprietary funds are accounted for using the "economic resources" measurement focus and the accrual basis of
accounting. Accordingly, all assets and liabilities (whether current or noncurrent) are included on the Statement of
Net Position. The Statement of Revenues, Expenses and Changes in Fund Net Position presents increases (revenues)
and decreases (expenses) in total Net Position. Under the accrual basis of accounting, revenues are recognized in
the period in which they are earned while expenses are recognized in the period in which the liability is incurred.
In these funds, receivables have been recorded as revenue and provisions have been made for uncollectible amounts.

Operating revenues in the proprietary funds are those revenues that are generated from the primary operations of
the fund. All other revenues are reported as non-operating revenues. Operating expenses are those expenses that are
essential to the primary operations of the fund. All other expenses are reported as non-operating expenses.

The City reports the following major proprietary fund:

Sewer Fund accounts for the activities of the wastewater collection and treatment system, which provides
service to residents and the businesses of the City and some neighboring cities.

Internal service fund balances and activities have been combined with governmental activities in the Government-
Wide Financial Statements, and are comprised of the following funds:

Workers’ Compensation Insurance Fund accounts for all workers’ compensation self-insurance activities.

Dental Self-Insurance Fund accounts for the City’s self-insurance activities related to the dental plan it provides
to its employees.

Benefits Fund accounts for charges for other funds and expenditures relating to employee benefits other than
those accounted for in the Workers’ Compensation and Dental Self-Insurance Funds.

Comprehensive Liability Insurance Fund accounts for general liability self-insurance transactions.

Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund accounts for charges to the City departments for funding and
acquisition of replacement vehicles and equipment.

Fleet and Building Maintenance Fund accounts for the charges to user departments and the expenses related to
the maintenance of City vehicles and buildings.

Fiduciary Fund Financial Statements

Fiduciary fund financial statements include a Statement of Net Position and a Statement of Changes in Fiduciary
Net Position. The City’s fiduciary funds represent custodial funds and private purpose trust funds. Both custodial
funds and the private purpose trust funds are accounted for on the full accrual basis of accounting.

64
84 of 240


--- page 85 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

B. Basis of Presentation, Accounting and Measurement Focus (Continued)

Fiduciary Fund Financial Statements (Continued)

Fiduciary fund types are accounted for according to the nature of the fund. Custodial funds are used to report
fiduciary activities that are not required to be reported in pension (and other employee benefit) trust funds,
investment trust funds, or private-purpose trust funds. Private-purpose trust funds account for resources of all other
trust arrangements in which principal and income benefit individuals, private organizations, or other governments
(i.e. unclaimed property/escheat property). They are also used to account for various assessment districts for which
the City acts as an agent for debt service activity, as the City is prohibited from levying additional taxes for these
districts. Such funds include Community Facilities Districts.

The City’s private purpose trust fund is a fiduciary fund type used by the City to report assets, liabilities and
activities of the Successor Agency to the Redevelopment Agency (Successor Agency) for the City of San Mateo.
Its results of operations are presented on the Statement of Changes of Fiduciary Net Position.

Successor Agency of the Redevelopment Agency for the City of San Mateo

The Redevelopment Obligation Retirement Fund was created to serve as a custodian for the assets and to wind
down the affairs of the RDA on February 1, 2012, pursuant to Assembly Bill x1 26. Its purpose is to expeditiously
wind down the affairs of the dissolved Redevelopment Agency (RDA). The Successor Agency is a separate public
entity from the City, subject to the direction of an oversight board. The City Council serves as the governing
board of the Successor Agency. In general, the Successor Agency’s assets can only be used to pay enforceable
obligations in existence at the date of dissolution (including the completion of any unfinished projects that were
subject to legally enforceable contractual commitments). In future fiscal years, the Successor Agency will only
be allocated revenue in the amount that is necessary to pay the estimated annual installment payments on
enforceable obligations of the former RDA until all enforceable obligations of the former RDA have been paid
in full and all assets have been liquidated. Based upon the nature of the Successor Agency’s custodial role, the
Successor Agency has been included in the accompanying basic financial statements as a private purpose trust
fund. In February 2015, the California Department of Finance (Finance) approved the City’s revised Long-Range
Property Management Plan (LRPMP), with the assets deemed for governmental use and future development. The
Department of Finance approved the amendment to the Last and Final ROPS, and its confirmation that this entire
transaction would be considered the first of two allowed amendments to the Last and Final ROPS in a letter dated
December 13, 2017. Refer to Note 18 for additional information relating the Successor Agency.

C. Deferred Outflows and Inflows of Resources

The Statement of Net Position and Balance Sheet — Governmental Funds reports separate sections for Deferred
Outflows of Resources, and Deferred Inflows of Resources, when applicable.

Deferred Outflows of Resources represent a consumption of net assets that applies to future period(s) and
so will not be recognized as an outflow of resources (expense/ expenditure) until then.

Deferred Inflows of Resources represent an acquisition of net assets that applies to a future period(s) and
so will not be recognized as an inflow of resources (revenue) until that time.

D. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments

The City pools its available cash for investment purposes. The City considers pooled cash and investment amounts,
with original maturities of three months or less, to be cash equivalents.

65
85 of 240


--- page 86 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
D. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments (Continued)

Investments are reported in the accompanying financial statements at fair value, except for certain investment
contracts that are reported at cost because they are not transferable and they have terms that are not affected by
changes in market interest rates. Changes in fair value that occur during a fiscal year are recognized as
investment income reported for that fiscal year, and may result in negative investment income in the
accompanying financial statements. Investment income includes interest earnings, changes in fair value, and
any gains or losses realized upon the liquidation, maturity, or sale of investments.

Investment income earned by the pooled investments is allocated to the various funds based on each fund's
average cash and investment balance, except for investment income associated with funds not legally required to
receive pooled investment income which has been assigned to and recorded as revenue of the general fund, as
provided by California Government Code Section 53647.

For purposes of the statement of cash flows, amounts reported as cash and cash equivalents, include amounts on
deposit in the City pool and any short-term, highly liquid investments that are both readily convertible to known
amounts of cash or so near their maturity that they present insignificant risk of changes in value because of
changes in interest rates.

Certain disclosure requirements, if applicable, for deposits and investment risks in the following areas:

> Interest rate risk
> Credit risk
- Overall
- Custodial credit risk
- Concentration of credit risk

In addition, other disclosures are specified including use of certain methods to present deposits and investments,
highly sensitive investments, credit quality at year-end and other disclosures.

U.S. GAAP establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and establishes disclosures about fair value
measurement. Investments, unless otherwise specified, recorded at fair value in the Statements of Net Position, are
categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their fair value.

Levels of inputs are as follows:

Level 1 — Inputs are unadjusted, quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets at the
measurement date.

Level 2 — Inputs, other than quoted prices included in Level 1, which are observable for the assets or liabilities
through corroboration with market data at the measurement date.

Level 3 — Unobservable inputs that reflect management’s best estimate of what market participants would use
in pricing the assets or liabilities at the measurement date.

E. Restricted Cash and Investments

Certain restricted cash and investments are held by fiscal agents for the redemption of bonded debt, for acquisition
and construction of capital projects, and to meet bond indenture debt reserve requirements.

66
86 of 240


--- page 87 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
F. Receivables

Customer or trade receivables are reported as “accounts receivable” and are shown net of an allowance for
uncollectible accounts based on historical and management estimates.

Noncurrent portions of long-term receivables (e.g., “notes receivable”) due to governmental fund types are reported
in their respective balance sheets despite their spending measurement focus. Recognition of governmental fund
type revenues represented by noncurrent receivables are deferred until they become current receivables. Noncurrent
portions of long-term notes receivable are offset by restricted fund balance in the special revenue funds.

G. Interfund Transactions

Activity between funds that are representative of lending/borrowing arrangements outstanding at the end of the
fiscal year are referred to as either “due to/from other funds” or “‘advances to/from other funds” (i.e., the current
portion of interfund loans). Any residual balances outstanding between the governmental activities and business-
type activities are reported in the Governmental-Wide Financial Statements as “internal balances.”

H. Inventories and Prepaid Items

Inventory, consisting of expendable supplies, is valued at first in first out basis. The cost of governmental funds
inventory is recorded as expenditure at the time the individual inventory is consumed. Prepaid items are recorded
at cost. Using the consumption method, prepaid items are recorded as expenditures over the period that service is
provided. Reported inventory and prepaid items are equally offset by a fund balance reservation, which indicates
that they do not constitute “available spendable resources” even though they are a component of current assets.

I. Leases
Lessee

The City has a policy to recognize a lease liability and a right-to-use lease asset (lease asset) in the government-
wide financial statements. The City recognizes lease liabilities with an initial, individual value of $100,000 or more.

At the commencement of a lease, the City initially measures the lease liability at the present value of payments
expected to be made during the lease term. Subsequently, the lease liability is reduced by the principal portion of
lease payments made.

Lease assets are recorded at the amount of the initial measurement of the lease liabilities and modified by any lease
payments made to the lessor at or before the commencement of the lease term, less any lease incentives received
from the lessor at or before the commencement of the lease term along with any initial direct costs that are ancillary
charges necessary to place the lease assets into service. Lease assets are amortized using the straight-line method
over the shorter of the lease term or the useful life of the underlying asset, unless the lease contains a purchase
option that the City has determined is reasonably certain of being exercised. In this case, the lease asset is amortized
over the useful life of the underlying asset.

Key estimates and judgments related to leases include how the City determines (1) the discount rate it uses to
discount the expected lease payments to present value, (2) lease term, and (3) lease payments.

e The City uses the interest rate charged by the lessor as the discount rate. When the interest rate charged by
the lessor is not provided, the City generally uses its estimated incremental borrowing rate as the discount
rate for leases.

67
87 of 240


--- page 88 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
I. Leases (Continued)

Lessee (Continued)

e The lease term includes the noncancellable period of the lease. Lease payments included in the
measurement of the lease liability are composed of fixed payments and purchase option price that the City
is reasonably certain to exercise.

The City monitors changes in circumstances that would require a remeasurement of its lease and will remeasure
any lease asset and liability if certain changes occur that are expected to significantly affect the amount of the lease
liability.

Lease assets are reported as right to use along with other capital assets and lease liabilities are reported with long-
term debt on the statement of net position.

Lessor

The City is a lessor for leases of special purpose facilities, office and commercial space, and land. The City
recognizes leases receivable and deferred inflows of resources in the financial Statements.

At the commencement of a lease, the City initially measures the lease receivable at the present value of payments
expected to be received during the lease term. Subsequently, the lease receivable is reduced by the principal portion
of lease payments received. The deferred inflows of resources are initially measured as the initial amount of the
lease receivable, adjusted for lease payments received at or before the lease commencement date. Subsequently, the
deferred inflows of resources are recognized as revenue over the life of the lease term in a systematic and rational
method.

Key estimates and judgments include how the City determines (1) the discount rate it uses to discount the expected
lease receipts to present value, (2) lease term, and (3) lease receipts.

= The City uses its estimated incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate for leases.
= The lease term includes the noncancellable period of the lease. Lease receipts included in the measurement
of the lease receivable is composed of fixed payments from the lessee.

The City monitors changes in circumstances that would require a remeasurement of its lease and will remeasure the
lease receivable and deferred inflows of resources if certain changes occur that are expected to significantly affect
the amount of the lease receivable.

J. Subscription-Based Information Technology Arrangements (SBITAs)

The City has a policy to recognize a SBITA liability and a right-to-use subscription asset (SBITA asset) in our
financial statements with an initial, individual value of $100,000 or more with a subscription term greater than one
year.

At the commencement of a subscription, when the subscription asset is placed into service, the SBITA liability is
measured at the present value of payments expected to be made during the subscription term. Future subscription
payments are discounted using the City's incremental borrowing rate and the City recognizes amortization of the
discount on the subscription liability as interest expense in subsequent financial reporting periods.

68
88 of 240


--- page 89 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

J. Subscription-Based Information Technology Arrangements (SBITAs) (Continued)

SBITA assets are measured as the sum of the initial subscription liability, payments made to the SBITA vendor
before the commencement of the lease term, and capitalizable implementation costs less any incentives received
from the SBITA vendor at or before the commencement of the subscription term. Subscription assets are amortized
using the straight-line method over the subscription term.

Key estimates and judgments related to SBITAs include how the City determines (1) the discount rate it uses to
discount the expected subscription payments to present value, (2) subscription term, and (3) subscription payments.

- The City uses the interest rate charged by the SBITA vendor as the discount rate. When the interest rate
charged by the SBITA vendor is not provided, the City generally uses its estimated incremental borrowing
rate as the discount rate for SBITAs.

- The subscription term includes the period during which the City has a noncancelable right to use the
underlying IT asset. The subscription term also includes periods covered by an option to extend if it is
reasonably certain to be exercised.

- Subscription payments included in the measurement of the subscription liability are composed of fixed
payments and purchase option years that the City is reasonably certain to exercise. The City monitors
changes in circumstances that would require a remeasurement of a subscription and will remeasure any
subscription asset and liability if certain changes occur that are expected to significantly affect the amount
of the subscription liability.

Right-to-use subscription assets are reported along with other capital assets and subscription liabilities are reported
with long-term debt on the statement of net position.

K. Capital Assets

Capital assets, which include property, plant, equipment, the right to use leased equipment, and infrastructure assets,
are reported in the applicable governmental or business-type activities columns in the government-wide financial
statements. Such assets are recorded at historical cost (except for intangible right-to-use lease assets, the measurement of
which is discussed in note 1.I. above) or estimated historical cost if purchased or constructed. Donated assets are valued
at the fair value of the assets on the date on which they were contributed. Donated works of art and similar items,
and capital assets received in a service concession arrangement are reported at acquisition value rather than fair
value. The costs of normal maintenance and repairs that do not add to the value of the asset or materially extend
assets lives are not capitalized. The City utilizes a capitalization threshold of $5,000 - $25,000 depending on asset

type.

Depreciation is charged to operations using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets as

follows:
Capitalization
Asset Type Threshold
General capital assets $10,000
Infrastructure capital assets $100,000
Intangible assets $1,000,000

69
89 of 240


--- page 90 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

K. Capital Assets (Continued)

L.

Depreciation is charged to operations using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets as
follows:

Asset Type Years
Sewer treatment plant
and transmission lines up to 60
Buildings and improvements 20 - 40
Machinery and equipment 2-30
Infrastructure 25 - 60
Lease and subscription assets Contract term

For all infrastructure systems, the City elected to use the Basic Approach as defined by GASB Statement No. 34
for infrastructure reporting. The City defines infrastructure as the basic physical assets that allow the City to
function. The assets include the streets, water purification and distribution system, sewer collection and treatment
system, parks and recreation, lands and improvement system, storm water conveyance system, and buildings
combined with the site amenities such as parking and landscaped areas used by the City in the conduct of its
business. Each major infrastructure system can be divided into subsystems. For example, the street system can be
subdivided into pavement, curb and gutters, sidewalks, medians, streetlights, traffic control devices (signs, signals
and pavement markings), landscaping and land. These subsystems were not delineated in the basic financial
statements. The appropriate operating department maintains information regarding the subsystems.

For all other infrastructure systems, the City elected to use the Basic Approach as defined by GASB Statement No.
34. The City appraised its own infrastructure as of July 1, 2002. The 2002 appraisal determined the original cost,
which is defined as the actual cost to acquire new property in accordance with market prices at the time of first
construction/acquisition. Original costs were developed in one of three ways:

1. Historical records;

2.Standard unit costs appropriate for the construction/acquisition date;

3.Present cost indexed by a reciprocal factor of the price increase from the construction/acquisition date
to the current date.

The accumulated depreciation from the date of construction/acquisition to the current date was computed using
industry accepted life expectancies for each infrastructure subsystem. The book value was then computed by
deducting the accumulated depreciation from the original cost.

Long-Term Debt

Government-Wide Financial Statements and Proprietary Fund Financial Statements

Long-term debt and other financial obligations are reported as liabilities in the appropriate funds. Bond premiums
and discounts are deferred and amortized over the life of the bonds using straight line method. Bonds payable are
reported net of the applicable premium or discount. Issuance costs are expensed when incurred. Gains or losses on
bond refunding are reported as either deferred outflows of resources or deferred inflows of resources and amortized
over the term of the related debt.

70
90 of 240


--- page 91 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
L. Long-Term Debt (Continued)
Governmental Fund Financial Statements

The governmental fund financial statements do not present long-term debt but are shown in the Reconciliation of
the Governmental Funds Balance Sheet to the Government-Wide Statement of Net Position. Governmental fund
types recognize bond premiums and discounts during the current period. The face amount of debt issued is reported
as other financing sources. Premiums received on debt issuances are reported as other financing sources while
discounts on debt issuances are reported as other financing uses. Debt issuance costs, whether or not withheld from
the actual debt proceeds received, are reported as debt service expenditures.

M. Compensated Absences

The City’s policy permits employees to accumulate earned but unused vacation benefits, which are eligible for
payment upon separation from government service. The liability for such leave is reported as incurred in the
government-wide and proprietary fund financial statements. A liability for those amounts is recorded in the
governmental funds only if the liability has matured as a result of employee resignations or retirements. The liability
for compensated absences includes salary-related benefits, where applicable.

Government-Wide Financial Statements
For governmental and business-type activities, compensated absences are recorded as expenses when earned.
Fund Financial Statements

For governmental funds, compensated absences are recorded as expenditures in the year paid. The General Fund is
typically used to liquidate compensated absences. In proprietary funds, compensated absences are expensed to the
various funds in the period they are earned, and such fund’s share of the unpaid liability is recorded as a long-term
liability of the fund.

N. Claims and Judgments Payable

The short-term and long-term workers’ compensation claims liability is reported in the Workers’ Compensation
Insurance Internal Service Fund. The short-term and long-term general claims liability is reported in the
Comprehensive Liability Insurance Internal Service Fund. The short-term liability which will be liquidated with
current financial resources is the amount of settlement reached, but unpaid, related to claims and judgments entered.
Under the modified accrual basis, the following revenue sources are considered to be susceptible to accrual property
taxes, sales taxes, federal and state grants.

O. Pension Plans

For purposes of measuring the net pension liability, deferred outflows of resources and deferred inflows of resources
related to pensions, and pension expense, information about the fiduciary net position of the plans and additions
to/deductions from the plans’ fiduciary net position have been determined on the same basis as they are reported
by the plans (Note 11). For this purpose, benefit payments (including refunds of employee contributions) are
recognized when due and payable in accordance with benefit terms. Investments are reported at fair value. The
General Fund and Internal Service Funds are typically used to liquidate the pension liability related to the City's
governmental activities while the pension liability for Business-type activities is liquidated from the respective
Enterprise Funds.

71
91 of 240


--- page 92 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
O. Pension Plans (Continued)

The following timeframes are used for pension reporting:

Valuation date June 30, 2022
Measurement date June 30, 2023
Measurement period July 1, 2022 to June 30, 2023

Gains and losses related to changes in total pension liability and fiduciary net position are recognized in pension
expense systematically over time. The first amortized amounts are recognized in pension expense for the year the
gain or loss occurs. The remaining amounts are categorized as deferred outflows and deferred inflows of resources
related to pensions and are to be recognized in future pension expense. The amortization period differs depending
on the source of the gain or loss. The difference between projected and actual earnings is amortized straight-line
over 5 years. All other amounts are amortized straight-line over the average expected remaining service lives of all
members that are provided with benefits (active, inactive, and retired) as of the beginning of the measurement
period.

P. Other Postemployment Benefits (OPEB)

For purposes of measuring the net OPEB liability, deferred outflows of resources and deferred inflows of resources
related to OPEB, and OPEB expense, information about the fiduciary net position of the OPEB plan, the assets of
which are held in an irrevocable trust, and additions to/deductions from the OPEB plan’s fiduciary net position have
been determined by an independent actuary (Note 12). For this purpose, benefit payments are recognized when
currently due and payable in accordance with the benefit terms. Investments are reported at fair value. The
Enterprise Funds are used to liquidate the OPEB liability.

Generally accepted accounting principles require that the reported results must pertain to liability and fiduciary net
position information within certain defined timeframes. For this report, the following timeframes are used:

Valuation date June 30, 2023
Measurement date June 30, 2023
Measurement period July 1, 2022 to June 30, 2023

QO. Fund Balances
In the Governmental Fund Financial Statements, fund balances are classified in the following categories:

Nonspendable — Items cannot be spent because they are not in spendable form, such as prepaid items and
inventories, items that are legally or contractually required to be maintained intact, such as principal of an
endowment or revolving loan funds.

Restricted — Restricted fund balances encompass the portion of net fund resources subject to externally
enforceable legal restrictions. This includes externally imposed restrictions by creditors, such as through debt
covenants, grantors, contributors, laws or regulations of other governments, as well as restrictions imposed by
law through constitutional provisions or enabling legislation.

Committed — Committed fund balances encompass the portion of net fund resources, the use of which is
constrained by limitations that the government imposes upon itself at its highest level of decision making
(normally the governing body) and that remain binding unless removed in the same manner. The City Council
is considered the highest authority for the City. A City Council resolution is required to have fund balance
committed.

72
92 of 240


--- page 93 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
QO. Fund Balances (Continued)

Assigned — Assigned fund balances encompass the portion of net fund resources reflecting the government’s
intended use of resources. Assignment of resources can be done by the highest level of decision making or by
a committee or official designated for that purpose. The City Council has not delegated the authority to assign
fund balance to management.

Unassigned — This category is for any balances that have no restrictions placed upon them. The General Fund
is the only fund that reports a positive unassigned fund balance amount. In other governmental funds it is not
appropriate to report a positive unassigned fund balance amount. However, in governmental funds other than
the General Fund, if expenditures incurred for specific purposes exceed the amounts that are restricted,
committed, or assigned to those purposes, it may be necessary to report a negative unassigned fund balance in
that fund.

R. Net Position
For the Government-Wide Financial Statements, net position is classified in the following categories:

Net Investment in Capital Assets component of net position consists of capital assets, net of accumulated
depreciation and amortization and reduced by any debt outstanding and any deferred outflows/inflows of
resources related to such borrowings that are attributable to the acquisition, construction or improvement of
those assets. If there are significant unspent related debt proceeds at year-end, the portion of the debt attributable
to the unspent proceeds is not included in the calculation of net investment in capital assets. Rather, that portion
of the debt is offset by unspent proceeds.

Restricted component of net position consists of restricted assets reduced by liabilities and deferred inflows of
resources related to those assets.

Unrestricted component of net position is the amount of the assets, deferred outflows of resources, liabilities,
and deferred inflows of resources that are not included in the determination of net investment in capital assets
or the restricted component of net position.

When both restricted and unrestricted resources are available for use, the City’s policy is to use restricted resources
first, then unrestricted resources that are needed.

S. Property Taxes

San Mateo County (the “County’’) assesses properties and it bills, collects, and distributes property taxes to all
taxing entities within its jurisdiction including the City. Under State law, known as the Teeter Plan, the County
remits the entire secure amount levied and handles all delinquencies, retaining interest and penalties. Secured and
unsecured property taxes are assessed on January 1. Secured property tax is due in two installments, on November 1
and March 1. It becomes delinquent on December 10 and April 10, respectively. Unsecured property tax is due on
July 1, and becomes delinquent on August 31. Collection of delinquent accounts is the responsibility of the County,
which retains all penalties.

The term “unsecured” refers to taxes on personal property other than real estate, land and buildings. These taxes
are secured by liens on the property being taxed. Property tax revenues are recognized by the City in the fiscal year
they are levied provided they become available as defined above.

73
93 of 240


--- page 94 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
T. Use of Accounting Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates
and assumptions, in some cases when applicable, that affect the amounts in the financial statements and the
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from the estimates.

U. Implementation of New GASB Pronouncements for the Year Ended June 30, 2024

The requirements of the following accounting standards are effective for the purpose of implementation, if
applicable to the City, for the year ended June 30, 2024. The financial statements included herein apply the
requirements and provisions of these statements, including necessary retroactive adjustments to financial statement
classifications and presentations.

GASB Statement No. 100— In June 2022, GASB issued Statement No. 100, Accounting Changes and Error
Corrections — an Amendment of GASB Statement No. 62. The primary objective of this Statement is to enhance
accounting and financial reporting requirements for accounting changes and error corrections to provide more
understandable, reliable, relevant, consistent, and comparable information for making decisions or assessing
accountability. Implementation of this Statement had a moderate effect on the City’s financial statements for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 2024.

V. Upcoming Government Accounting Standards Implementations

The City is currently analyzing its accounting practices to determine the potential impact on the financial statements
for the following GASB statements:

GASB Statement No. 101 — In June 2022, GASB issued Statement No. 101, Compensated Absences. The objective
of this Statement is to better meet the information needs of financial statement users by updating the recognition
and measurement guidance for compensated absences. That objective is achieved by aligning the recognition and
measurement guidance under a unified model and by amending certain previously required disclosures. Application
of this statement is effective for the City’s fiscal year ending June 30, 2025.

GASB Statement No. 102 — In December 2023, GASB issued Statement No. 102, Certain Risk Disclosures. This
Statement requires a government to assess whether a concentration or constraint makes the primary government
reporting unit or other reporting units that report a liability for revenue debt vulnerable to the risk of a substantial
impact. Additionally, this Statement requires a government to assess whether an event or events associated with a
concentration or constraint that could cause the substantial impact have occurred, have begun to occur, or are more
likely than not to begin to occur within 12 months of the date the financial statements are issued. Application of
this statement is effective for the City’s fiscal year ending June 30, 2025.

GASB Statement No. 103 — In April 2024, GASB issued Statement No. 103, Financial Reporting Model
Improvements. The objective of this Statement is to improve key components of the financial reporting model to
enhance its effectiveness in providing information that is essential for decision making and assessing a
government’s accountability. Application of this statement is effective for the City’s fiscal year ending
June 30, 2026.

74
94 of 240


--- page 95 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
V. Upcoming Government Accounting Standards Implementations (Continued)

GASB Statement No. 104 — \n September 2024, GASB issued Statement No. 104, Disclosure of Certain Capital
Assets. This Statement requires certain types of capital assets to be disclosed separately in the capital assets note
disclosures required by Statement 34. Lease assets recognized in accordance with Statement No. 87, Leases, and
intangible right-to-use assets recognized in accordance with Statement No. 94, Public-Private and Public-Public
Partnerships and Availability Payment Arrangements, should be disclosed separately by major class of underlying
asset in the capital assets note disclosures. Subscription assets recognized in accordance with Statement No. 96,
Subscription-Based Information Technology Arrangements, also should be separately disclosed. In addition, this
Statement requires intangible assets other than those three types to be disclosed separately by major class.
Application of this statement is effective for the City’s fiscal year ending June 30, 2026.

Note 2 — Cash and Investments

Cash and investments are presented in the accompanying financial statements at June 30, 2024 as follows:

Government -Wide Statement of Net Position Fiduciary
Governmental Business-Type Fund Financial
Activities Activities Total Statements Total
Cash and investments
Held by City Treasury $ 326,227,149 $ 133,397,595 $ 459,624,744 $ 8,714,269 $ 468,339,013
Restricted cash and investments: Held by fiscal agents 21,216,358 51,978,422 73,194,780 3,579,206 76,773,986
Total cash and investments $ 347,443,507 $ 185,376,017 $ 532,819,524 §$ 12,293,475 $ 545,112,999

Cash and investments at June 30, 2024, consisted of the following:

Cash on hand and deposits:

Cash on hand $ 13,466
Deposits with financial institution 7,058,913

Total cash on hand and deposits 7,072,379

Investments:

Local Area Investment Funds (LAIF) 21,015,655
CAMP 133,272,859
San Mateo County Pool 52,873,850
Investments 254,104,270

Total investments 461,266,634
Cash and investments with fiscal agent 76,773,986

Total cash and investments $ 545,112,999

The City maintains a cash and investment pool for all funds. Certain restricted funds that are held an invested by
independent outside custodians through contractual agreements are not pooled. These restricted funds include cash
and investment held by trustees.

75
95 of 240


--- page 96 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 2 — Cash and Investments (Continued)

A. Demand Deposits

The carrying amounts of the City’s demand deposits were $7,058,913 at June 30, 2024. Bank balances were
$5,736,530 at that date, the total amount of which was collateralized or insured with securities held by the
pledging financial institutions in the City’s name as discussed below.

The California Government Code requires California banks and savings and loan associations to secure the City’s
cash deposits by pledging securities as collateral. This Code states that collateral pledged in this manner shall
have the effect of perfecting a security interest in such collateral superior to those of a general creditor. Thus,
collateral for cash deposits is considered to be held in the City's name.

The market value of pledged securities must equal at least 110% of the City's cash deposits. California law also
allows institutions to secure City’s deposits by pledging first trust deed mortgage notes having a value of 150%
of the City’s total cash deposits. The City may waive collateral requirements for cash deposits, which are fully
insured up to $250,000 by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”). The City, however, has not
waived the collateralization requirements.

The City follows the practice of pooling cash and investments of all funds, except for funds required to be held by
fiscal agents under the provisions of bond indentures. Interest income earned on pooled cash and investments is
allocated to the various funds based on the period-end cash and investment balances. Interest income from cash and
investments with fiscal agents is credited directly to the related fund.

B. Investments Authorized by the California Government Code and the City’s Investment Policy

The table below identifies the investment types that are authorized for the City by the California Government Code
and the City's investment policy. The table also identifies certain provisions of the California Government Code (or
the City's investment policy, if more restrictive) that address interest rate risk and concentration of credit risk. This
table does not address investments of debt proceeds held by bond trustees that are governed by the provisions of
debt agreements of the City, rather than the general provisions of the California Government Code or the City's
investment policy.

Maximum Maximum
Maximum Percentage Investment in
Authorized Investment Types Maturity of Portfolio One Issuer*

Securities issued by the U.S. Treasury 5 years None None
U.S. Agency Securities and Instrumentalies 5 years 70% 40%
Mortgage-Backed Securities 5 years 20% 20%
Banker's acceptance 180 days 10% 5%
Repurchase agreements 90 days 10% 10%
Local Agency Investment Fund N/A 65% 65%
San Mateo County Pool N/A 30% 30%
California Asset Management Program N/A 20% 20%
Money Market/Mutual Funds N/A 20% 10%
Prime Commercial Pap er 270 days 10% 5%
Medium-term Corp orate Notes 5 years 30% 5%
Obligations of State of California or Other

California Local Agency 5 years 20% 5%
Non-negotiable Certificates of Deposit 3 years 30% 5%
Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 5 years 30% 5%
Asset-Backed Securities 5 years 10% 5%
Non-Agency Mortgage Securities 5 years 10% 5%

* Based on state law requirements or City investment policy requirements, whichever is more restrictive.

76
96 of 240


--- page 97 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 2 — Cash and Investments (Continued)
C. Fair Value Measurement

At June 30, 2024, investments, excluding restricted cash and investments held by fiscal agent, are reported at fair
value based on quoted market prices. The table on the following page presents the fair value measurements of
investments recognized in the accompanying Financial Statements measured at fair value on a recurring basis and
the level within GASB 72 fair value hierarchy in which the fair value measurements fall at June 30, 2024.

Treasury Securities, Federal Farm Credit Bank Bonds, Federal Home Loan Banks, Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation Notes and Mortgage-Backed Securities, Federal National Mortgage Association Notes, and
Corporate Notes categorized as Level 2 are valued based on matrix pricing which use observable market inputs
such as yield curves and market indices that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market
data by correlation to other means. Investments included in restricted cash and investments included money
market accounts, guaranteed investment contracts, are not subject to fair value hierarchy.

77
97 of 240


--- page 98 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 2 — Cash and Investments (Continued)

C. Fair Value Measurement (Continued)

Investment Type Fair Value Investments Level 1 Level 2 Level 3

Investments measured by fair value level:

U.S. Government Treasury and Agencies:
Federal Farm Credit Bank Bonds (FFCB) $ 9,081,912 1.97% §$ = §$ 9,081,912 $
Federal Home Loan Bank Bonds (FHLB) 30,824,853 6.68% % 30,824,853
Federal Home Loan Mortg. Corp. (FHLMC) 4,263,437 0.92% 4 4,263,437
Federal Natl. Mortg. Assn. Notes (FNMA) 4,751,341 1.03% - 4,751,341
US Treasuries 99,998,532 21.68% - 99,998,532

Corporate Notes:
Amazon.com Inc 2,325,844 0.50% “ 2,325,844
Apple Inc 705,069 0.15% - 705,069
Bank of America Corp. 2,844,241 0.62% “ 2,844,241
Bank of Montreal 686,982 0.15% a 686,982
Berkshire Hathaway 806,141 0.17% - 806,141
Caterpillar Financial Service 2,944,028 0.64% 2,944,028
Charles Schwab Corp. 693,574 0.15% . 693,574
Chubb INA Holdings Inc. 1,451,466 0.31% - 1,451,466
Cisco Systems Inc. 1,189,790 0.26% = 1,189,790
Duke Energy Carolinas LLC 1,923,080 0.42% 7 1,923,080
Guardian Life 1,544,775 0.33% - 1,544,775
Home Depot Inc 1,690,101 0.37% - 1,690,101
Honeywell Intl 2,216,156 0.48% - 2,216,156
John Deere Capital Corp 1,978,757 0.43% - 1,978,757
JP Morgan Chase & Co 924,024 0.20% - 924,024
Mass Mutual 2,827,871 0.61% - 2,827,871
Metlife 2,631,692 0.57% - 2,631,692
Morgan Stanley 994,345 0.22% - 994,345
National Rural Utilities 2,746,799 0.60% - 2,746,799
New York Life Global 3,117,325 0.68% - 3,117,325
Northwestern Mutual 1,979,833 0.43% - 1,979,833
Paccar Financial Corp 1,287,388 0.28% - 1,287,388
Prologis 2,617,131 0.57% - 2,617,131
Realty Income Corp 2,138,252 0.46% - 2,138,252
Royal Bank of Canada 3,049,571 0.66% - 3,049,571
Target Corp 395,506 0.09% - 395,506
Toronto-Dominion Bank 4,123,141 0.89% - 4,123,141
Toyota Motor Credit Corp 2,308,032 0.50% - 2,308,032
Truist Financial Corp 416,310 0.09% - 416,310
United Health Group Inc 2,545,486 0.55% - 2,545,486
Wal-Mart Stores 2,119,168 0.46% - 2,119,168

Supranational 2,829,727 0.61% - 2,829,727

Asset-Backed Securities 17,236,645 3.74% - 17,236,645

Collateralized Mortgage Obligations 24,944,160 5.41% - 24,944,160
Total investments subject to fair value 253,152,485 $ -  § 253,152,485 $ -

Investments not subject to the fair value hierarchy:

Money Market Funds 951,785 0.21%

Local Agency Investment Fund 21,015,655 4.56%

California Asset Management Program 133,272,859 28.89%

San Mateo County Pool 52,873,850 11.46%
Total investments $ 461,266,634 100.00%

78

Percentage of

Fair Value Measurement Using

98 of 240


--- page 99 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 2 — Cash and Investments (Continued)

D. Risk Disclosure

Disclosures Relating to Custodial Credit Risk

Custodial credit risk for deposits is the risk that, in the event of the failure of a depository financial institution, a
government will not be able to recover its deposits or will not be able to recover collateral securities that are in
the possession of an outside party. The custodial credit risk for investments is the risk that, in the event of the
failure of the counterparty (e.g., broker-dealer) to a transaction, a government will not be able to recover the
value of its investment or collateral securities that are in the possession of another party. The California
Government Code and the City’s investment policy do not contain legal or policy requirements that would limit
the exposure to custodial credit risk for deposits or investments, other than the following provision for deposits:
The California Government Code requires that a financial institution secure deposits made by state or local
governmental units by pledging securities in an undivided collateral pool held by a depository regulated under
state law (unless so waived by the governmental unit). The market value of the pledged securities in the collateral
pool must equal at least 110% of the total amount deposited by the public agencies. California law also allows
financial institutions to secure City deposits by pledging first trust deed mortgage notes having a value of 150%
of the secured public deposits. At June 30, 2024, the City’s deposits (bank balances) were collateralized under
California Law.

Disclosure Relating to Concentration of Credit Risk

The investment policy of the City contains requirements that no more than 5 percent of the total portfolio may be
deposited with or invested in securities issued by any single issuer unless otherwise specified in this policy. GASB
Statement No. 40 requires disclosure by amount and issuer, of investments in any one issuer that represent 5% or
more of total investments. At June 30, 2024, the City had the followings investment (other than U.S. Treasury
securities, mutual funds, and external investment pools) that represents 5% or more of the City's total investments:

Issuer Investment Type Amount

Federal Home Loan Bank Bonds (FHLB) Federal Agency Obligations $ 30,824,853
Disclosures Relating to Interest Rate Risk

Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in market interest rate will adversely affect the fair value of an investment.
Generally, the longer the maturity of an investment, the greater the sensitivity of its fair value to changes in market
interest rates. One of the ways that the City manages its exposure to interest rate risk is by purchasing a combination
of shorter term and longer term investments and by timing cash flows from maturities so that a portion of the
portfolio is maturing or coming close to maturity evenly over time as necessary to provide the cash flow and
liquidity needed for operations.

As a means of maintaining liquidity, the City’s investment policy limits are as follows:

Maturity % of Portfolio
Up to six months 25% (Minimum)
Six months to five years 75% (Maximum)

Information about the sensitivity of the fair values of the City’s investments (including investments held by bond
trustee) to market interest rate fluctuations is provided by the following table that shows the distribution of the
City’s investments by maturity. For purposes of the schedule shown on the next page, any callable securities are
assumed to be held to maturity.

79
99 of 240


--- page 100 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 2 — Cash and Investments (Continued)

D. Risk Disclosure (Continued)
Disclosures Relating to Interest Rate Risk (Continued)

Maturities (in years)

Investment Type Fair Value 1 year or less 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4 years or more
Investments:
U.S. Government Treasury and Agencies:
Federal Farm Credit Bank Bonds (FFCB) $ 9,081,912 $ - §$ - $ 4,679,222 $ 4,402,690 §$ -
Federal Home Loan Bank Bonds (FHLB) 30,824,853 - 21,412,326 4,805,954 4,606,573 -
Federal Home Loan Mortg. Corp. (FHLMC) 4,263,437 - 1,416,638 1,429,120 1,417,679 -
Federal Natl. Mortg. Assn. Notes (FNMA) 4,751,341 - 480,858 2,857,115 - 1,413,368
US Treasuries 99,998,532 17,867,227 41,668,364 8,237,372 14,053,104 18,172,465
Corporate Notes:
Amazon.com Inc 2,325,844 - - 2,325,844 - -
Apple Inc 705,069 705,069 : : - -
Bank of America Corp. 2,844,241 - 1,933,942 910,299 - -
Bank of Montreal 686,982 686,982 - - - -
Berkshire Hathaway 806,141 - 806,141 - - -
Caterpillar Financial Service 2,944,028 1,500,355 1,443,673 - - -
Charles Schwab Corp. 693,574 - - 693,574 - -
Chubb INA Holdings Inc. 1,451,466 - 1,451,466 - - -
Cisco Systems Inc. 1,189,790 - - 1,189,790 - -
Duke Energy Carolinas LLC 1,923,080 - - - - 1,923,080
Guardian Life 1,544,775 - - 800,707 - 744,068
Home Depot Inc 1,690,101 - 1,690,101 - - -
Honeywell Intl 2,216,156 - - 694,314 1,521,842 -
John Deere Capital Corp 1,978,757 - - 995,740 - 983,017
JP Morgan Chase & Co 924,024 - 924,024 - - -
Mass Mutual 2,827,871 1,502,661 1,325,210 - - -
Metlife 2,631,692 - 1,144,460 - - 1,487,232
Morgan Stanley 994,345 - 994,345 - - -
National Rural Utilities 2,746,799 1,775,043 - - - 971,756
New York Life Global 3,117,325 - 1,131,377 1,985,948 - -
Northwestern Mutual 1,979,833 - - - - 1,979,833
Paccar Financial Corp 1,287,388 - - 1,287,388 - -
Prologis 2,617,131 - - - 2,617,131 -
Realty Income Corp 2,138,252 - 482,109 1,656,143 - -
Royal Bank of Canada 3,049,571 - 1,194,349 1,855,222 - -
Target Corp 395,506 - - - - 395,506
Toronto-Dominion Bank 4,123,141 1,323,600 2,799,541 - - -
Toyota Motor Credit Corp 2,308,032 - - 2,308,032 - -
Truist Financial Corp 416,310 - - 416,310 - -
United Health Group Inc 2,545,486 - 754,823 1,790,663 - -
Wal-Mart Stores 2,119,168 - 170,540 - 1,948,628 -
Supranational 2,829,727 - 1,415,867 - 1,413,860 -
Asset-Backed Securities 17,236,645 2,997,824 5,168,137 4,553,777 1,069,296 3,447,611
Collateralized Mortgage Obligations 24,944,160 809,411 - 2,167,880 11,718,204 10,248,665
Money Market Funds 951,785 - 951,785 - - -
Local Agency Investment Fund 21,015,655 21,015,655 - - - -
California Asset Management Program 133,272,859 133,272,859 - - - -
San Mateo County Pool 52,873,850 52,873,850 - - - -
Total investments $ 461,266,634 $ 236,330,536 $ 90,760,076 $ 47,640,414 $ 44,769,007 S$ 41,766,601

Disclosures Relating to Credit Risk

Generally, credit risk is the risk that an issuer of an investment will not fulfill its obligation to the holder of the
investment. This is measured by the assignment of a rating by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
However, some issuers do not seek a credit rating. For instance, the California Local Agency Investment Fund
(LAIF) has not sought or received a credit rating. In these cases, the purchaser is solely responsible for performing
their own due diligence before purchasing an investment or participating in an external investment pool. Certificates
of deposit of $250,000 or less are fully insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and therefore,
do not seek a credit rating.

80
100 of 240


--- page 101 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 2 — Cash and Investments (Continued)
D. Risk Disclosure (Continued)

Disclosures Relating to Credit Risk (Continued)

The City mitigates credit risk through diversification in its portfolio as outlined by the City’s Investment Policy.
The Investment Policy also guides the rating quality of purchased securities provided by Nationally Recognized
Statistical Rating Organizations (NRSRO). As of June 30, 2024, the City’s deposits and investments were rated as

follows:
Credit Quality Ratings
Moody's S&P
Deposits P-1 to AA3 A-1+ to AA-
Investments:
Securities of U.S. Government Agencies:
Federal Farm Credit Bank Bonds (FFCB) Aaa AA+
Federal Home Loan Bank Bonds (FHLB) Aaa AA+
Federal Home Loan Mortg. Corp. Notes (FHLMC) Aaa AA+
Federal National Mortg. Assn. Notes (FNMA) Aaa AAt+
US Treasuries Aaa to P-1 AA+ to A-I+
Corporate Notes:
Amazon.com Inc Al AA
Apple Ine Aaa AA+
Bank of America Corp Al A-
Bank of Montreal A2 A-
Berkshire Hathaway Aa2 AA
Caterpillar Financial Service A2 A
Charles Schwab Corp A2 A-
Chubb INA Holdings Inc A3 A
Cisco Systems Inc Al AA-
Duke Energy Carolinas LLC Aa3 A
Guardian Life Aal AA+
Home Depot Inc A2 A
Honeywell Intl A2 A
John Deere Capital Corp Al A
JP Morgan Chase & Co Al A-
Mass Mutual Aa3 AA+
Metlife Aa3 AA-
Morgan Stanley Al A-
National Rural Utilities Alto A2 A-
New York Life Global Aaa AA+
Northwestern Mutual Aaa AAt+
Paccar Financial Corp Al At
Prologis A3 A
Realty Income Corp A3 A-
Royal Bank of Canada Al A
Target Corp A2 A
Toronto-Dominion Bank Al A
Toyota Motor Credit Corp Al At
Truist Financial Corp Baal A-
United Health Group Inc A2 At+
Wal-Mart Stores Aa2 AA
Asset-Backed Securities Aaa to Not Rated AAA to Not Rated
Collateralized Mortgage Obligations Aaa AA+
Local Agency Investment Funds Not Rated Not Rated
San Mateo County Pool Not Rated Not Rated
California Asset Management Program Not Rated AAAm
Supranational Aaa AAA
Money Market Funds Aaa AAAm

81
101 of 240


--- page 102 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 2 — Cash and Investments (Continued)
E. Investment in State Investment Pool

The City is a participant in LAIF which is regulated by California Government Code Section 16429 under the
oversight of the Treasurer of the State of California. As of June 30, 2024, the City had $21,015,655 invested in
LAIF. LAIF determines fair value on its investment portfolio based on market quotations for those securities where
market quotations are readily available and based on amortized cost or best estimate for those securities where
market value is not readily available. LAIF is reported at amortized cost, which approximates fair value.

F. Investment in California Asset Management Program (CAMP)

As of June 30, 2024, the City had $133,272,859 invested in the California Asset Management Program (CAMP),
in which the City is a voluntary participant. CAMP is an investment pool offered by the California Asset
Management Trust (the “Trust”). The Trust is.a joint powers authority and public agency created by the Declaration
of Trust and established under the provisions of the California Joint Exercise of Powers Act for the purpose of
exercising the common power of its Participants to invest funds. The investments are limited to investments
permitted by California Government Code. The total amount invested by all public agencies in CAMP at
June 30, 2024 was $20.5 billion. A board of five trustees who are officials or employees of public agencies has
oversight responsibility for CAMP. The value of the pool shares in CAMP, which may be withdrawn at any time,
is determined on an amortized cost basis, which is different from the fair value of the City’s position in the pool.
At June 30, 2024 the amortized cost approximated is the City’s cost.

G. Investment in San Mateo County Investment Pool

As of June 30, 2024, the City had $52,873,850 invested in the San Mateo County Investment Fund (County Pool)
that is regulated by Code Section 16429 under the oversight of the Treasurer of the County. The City reports its
investment in the County Pool at the fair value amount provided by the County. Included in the County Pool’s
investment portfolio are US Treasury Notes, Obligations issued by agencies of the United States Government,
LAIF, Corporate Notes, Commercial Paper, collateralized mortgage obligations, mortgage-backed securities, other
asset-backed securities, and floating rate securities issued by federal agencies, government-sponsored enterprises,
and corporations. The fair value factor of 0.9913 was used to calculate the fair value of the investments in the
County Pool. At June 30, 2024, the total amount invested by all public agencies in the County Pool was
approximately $8.4 billion.

82
102 of 240


--- page 103 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 3 — Loans and Notes Receivable

At June 30, 2024, loans and notes receivable consisted of the following:

Loans and
Loans and Notes Allowance for Notes Receivable, Unavailable
Receivable Doubtful Accounts Net Revenue
Governmental Activities:

First-time Homebuy er Loans $ 11,433,130 $ (11,407,808) $ 25,322 $ -
Home Rehabilitation Loans 529,907 - 529,907 117,300
106 N. El Dorado 450,000 (450,000) - -
Darcy Building 1,346,991 (1,164,564) 182,427 635
Edgewater Isle Senior Apartments 5,098,866 (5,098,866) - -
Belmont Building 800,000 (800,000) - -
St. Matthew Hotel 2,827,395 (2,827,395) - -
Rotary Hacienda & Rotary Floritas 5,154,873 (4,525,673) 629,200 -
First Step for Families (Turning Point) 751,033 (751,033) - -
12 N. Idaho Street 100,000 (100,000) - -
200 S. Delaware Street 2,154,555 (2,154,555) - -
232 S. Humboldt Street 557,500 (557,500) - -
11 S. Delaware Street 1,279,921 (1,279,921) - -
El Camino Family Housing 3,925,652 (3,925,652) - -
MP San Mateo Transit Associates 8,572,781 (8,572,781) - -
MP Delaware Pacific Associates LP 1,240,518 (1,240,518) - -
MP Foster Square 385,883 (385,883) - -
Gateway Commons Assessment Loan 281,977 - 281,977 24,805
Cal Home Loans 373,357 - 373,357 55,757
HIP Housing - 1100 Cypress Avenue 1,252,200 (1,252,200) - -
Bay Meadows Affordable Association 1,871,294 - 1,871,294 155,128
Child Care Facility Project Loans 770,789 (770,789) - -
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates LP 5,857,500 (5,857,500) - -

Total Governmental Activities $ 57,016,122 §$ (53,122,638) §$ 3,893,484 § 353,625

Business-Type Activities:

Town of Hillborough $ 38,999,057 $ - §$ 38,999,057

Total Business-Type Activities $ 38,999,057 $ - &§ 38,999,057

First-Time Homebuyer Loans

The City has had provided various loan programs for first time homebuyers since 1989. In general, they provide
secondary financing for low and moderate income buyers in the City that have deferred payments in order to allow the
buyer to maximize their purchasing capacity. The City, acting as the successor agency of the former redevelopment
agency, engages in programs designed to encourage construction or improvement in low-to-moderate income housing
or other projects. Under these programs, loans are provided under favorable terms to homeowners or developers who
agree to spend these funds in accordance with the City’s terms. The amounts for potential loan forgiveness represent
the best estimate of the amount of loans receivable that may not be collectible from borrowers. It does not necessarily
reflect subsequent actual payments, which could differ from expectations.

The various loan terms are described below:

Gateway Commons Original Buyers — Second loans accrue interest that compounds annually. Interest accrues for
20 years. Starting in year 21, 10% of principal and accrued interest is forgiven until the loan is fully forgiven in
year 30. Payment of principal and interest is paid upon sale of property. Units are sold at market value, and at that
time, the City also receives as payment a share of the appreciation based on the percentage of the City loan to
original purchase price.

83
103 of 240


--- page 104 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 3 — Loans and Notes Receivable (Continued)
First-Time Homebuyer Loans (Continued)

First Time Buyer Resale Program — Subsequent buyers at Gateway Commons and other first time buyer complexes
have different loan terms: Prior to 2007, second loans up to $60,000 accrue interest that is compounded annually.
The resale price is restricted by applying the percentage increase in median income from the time of the purchase
date to the sale date, to the initial sales price. The principal is repaid, but payment of the accrued interest is waived.
The City has the first right to purchase to roll unit to a new eligible buyer at the restricted sales price. If the City
does not exercise the option to purchase, the unit can be sold at fair market value to a non-eligible buyer. In this
case, the principal, interest, and appreciation share payment is paid to the City. After 2007, the second loans were
restructured to eliminate the interest rate and appreciation share in the event the unit is sold to non-eligible buyer.
Instead, “contingent interest” is paid to the City, which is determined by the difference between the restricted price
and the actual sales price (market value).

Neighborhood Purchase Program — A second loan of up to 20% of the purchase price, or maximum of $60,000,
accrues simple interest of 3% per year. This is an amortized loan, where monthly payments are deferred for five
years and then repaid over 25 years. This program is no longer active. There are no resale price restrictions.

Countywide Home Investment Partnership (CHIP) Program — This program provides a second loan of up to 20%

of the purchase price, or maximum of $60,000. No interest and no payments are due for 10 years. Then payments
are amortized at 4% for 25 years. Upon sale of the property or refinance, an appreciation share payment is due to
the City.

Meadow Court Program — This program provides first-time homebuyers down payment assistance for the purchase
of units at Meadow Court. The loans are secured by a second deed of trust with a term of 40 years and interest
compounding annually. At year 31, provided that the property has not been sold or transferred, 10% of principal
and interest will be forgiven each year until year 40, at which time the entire note is forgiven.

Home Rehabilitation Loans

The City has administered various housing rehabilitation loan programs using Community Development Block Grant
funds, former Redevelopment Agency Housing Set-Aside funds, and City Housing funds. Under these Programs,
individuals with incomes below a certain level are eligible to receive low interest, variable term loans, secured by deeds
of trust for rehabilitation work on their homes. The maximum loan limit is $85,000 for standard properties and $100,000
for historic properties. The loan repayments may be amortized over the life of the loans, deferred, or a combination of
both.

106 N. El Dorado

The City loaned $450,000 to Housing Association for the Needy and Dispossessed, Inc. (HAND), a nonprofit
organization, to acquire and rehabilitate six apartment units at 106 N. Eldorado for low-income housing. The loan bears
no interest and is due in 40 years. If the property has not been sold or transferred, beginning in 2027, ten percent of the
principal will be forgiven annually until 2036, at which time the entire loan principal will be forgiven.

Darcy Building

On June 30, 2000, the City and the former Redevelopment Agency made four loans, the proceeds of which were used
to conduct substantial rehabilitation and residential conversion of the Darcy Building for low income households. The
loans carry interest at rates that vary from 0% to 5% with a term of 30 years. If the property remains in the developer’s
hands, two of the loans allow partial forgiveness beginning is year 30, with full forgiveness in year 40.

84
104 of 240


--- page 105 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 3 — Loans and Notes Receivable (Continued)
Edgewater Isle Senior Apartments

On June 30, 2000, the City and the former Redevelopment Agency made a loan to the Human Investment Project
(“HIP”) for the purchase and minor rehabilitation of 92 low and moderate income senior rental units at Edgewater Isle.
Payments of principal and 3% interest are deferred until 2048 or the sale or transfer of the property, whichever comes
first.

Belmont Building

On June 30, 2000, the City and the former Redevelopment Agency made two loans, the proceeds of which were used
to convert the Belmont building into six one-bedroom units for very low income families. The loans bear no interest
and are for a term of 40 years. If the property remains in the developer’s hands, beginning in year 2023, ten percent of
the principal will be forgiven annually until year 2032, at which time the entire loan principal will have been forgiven.

St. Matthew Hotel

On June 30, 2000, the City and the former Redevelopment Agency made a loan to a developer, who used these funds
to rehabilitate this hotel into a single room occupancy development for very low-income households. Interest is at 0%
to 3%; principal and interest are due in 2036. Annual payments on the 3% loan are based on available cash flow, if any.

Rotary Hacienda

In 1988, the former Redevelopment Agency entered into a Development and Disposition Agreement (“DDA”) with
Rotary Hacienda Inc. for the construction and operation of an 82-unit senior rental housing project. The Agreement
includes a promissory note in the amount of $968,383, which bears simple interest at a rate of 8.75% compounded
annually, and is due on December 30, 2028. In 2004, the loan was recast for $968,000 with 0% interest, a 40-year term
and no prepayment penalty.

Rotary Floritas

The former Redevelopment Agency provided $3,000,000 for the construction of 50 senior rental units at Rotary Floritas
on March 24, 2006. The interest rate is 3% for 55 years. Annual payments of principal and interest are based on the
“available cash flow” from the borrower’s preceding fiscal year.

First Step for Families (Turning Point)

On June 26, 1988, the City provided zero interest deferred loans of $69,262 in City CDBG funds and $305,000 in
former Redevelopment Agency funds to Mid-Peninsula Coalition Belle Haven, Inc. (MPCBH), for the acquisition and
development of an emergency housing shelter called Turning Point. In 2002, MPCBH redeveloped the site into a new
facility consisting of both emergency beds and transitional housing units to assist 39 families. The original loans plus
interest were recast effective on April 1, 2002, in the amounts of $95,320 and $419,566 respectively. The loans bear
3% interest; principal and accrued interest are due in 30 years. At the same time, the City provided an additional
$500,000 ($143,500 CDBG and $356,500 HOME) for the new project. These loans bear 3% interest, and annual
payments are based on “available cash flow’. As long as the facility is operated as emergency and transitional housing,
1/30 of the principal and accrued interest annually until it fully forgiven in 30 years.

85
105 of 240


--- page 106 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 3 — Loans and Notes Receivable (Continued)
12 N. Idaho Street

In 1994, HAND, Inc., a non-profit organization, received loans of $100,000 from the former Redevelopment Agency
and $10,436 from the City to assist in the purchase of a six-unit apartment building located at 12 N. Idaho Street to be
used as an affordable housing complex. The Agency loan carries an interest rate of 10% and is for a period of 40 years.
The City loan carries no interest and is for a period of 15 years. Principal payments on both loans are deferred until the
earlier of sale or transfer of the property or the maturity date.

200 S. Delaware Street

On October 6, 1999, the City and the former Redevelopment Agency loaned $1,266,000 to HAND to acquire and
rehabilitate sixteen units at 200 S. Delaware Street for low-income housing. The loan bears an interest rate of 3%.
Principal and interest are due in 2049. HAND has an option of renewing the loan agreement for another fifty years.

232 S. Humboldt Street

On February 9, 2001, the City and the former Redevelopment Agency loaned $500,000 to Mateo Lodge, Inc., to
rehabilitate nine units at 232 S: Humboldt Street for low-income housing. The loan bears an interest rate of 3%. Principal
and interest are due in 2021. Mateo Lodge, Inc. has an option of renewing the loan agreement for another twenty years.

11 S. Delaware Street

On June 17, 2002, the City loaned $660,000 to HAND to acquire and rehabilitate eleven units at 11 S. Delaware Street
for affordable housing. The loan bears an interest rate of 3%. Principal and interest are due in 2032. However, HAND
has an option of renewing the loan agreement for another thirty years.

El Camino Family Housing

In December 2002, El Camino Family Housing, L.P., received a loan of $3,386,000 from the former Redevelopment
Agency to develop the Santa Inez Apartments at an interest rate of 3% and for a period of 40 years. Annual payments
of principal and interest in the amount of $140,688 are based on the “available cash flow” from the borrower’s preceding
fiscal year. On January 19, 2018, the project was refinanced in order to allow one of the general partners to purchase
the property as Santa Inez Apartments, LP. Upon closing, a portion of the accrued interest was paid to the City. The
promissory note was amended to revise the principal amount to $4,000,000 (original principal plus remaining accrued
interest). The other original terms remained the same for another 25 years.

MP San Mateo Transit Associates

In November 2006, the City and the former Redevelopment Agency entered into a loan agreement with the Mid-
Peninsula Housing Coalition. The agreement includes three promissory notes in the amounts of $1,230,000 (City funds),
$1,200,000 (Agency funds), and $2,870,000 (Agency funds), which bear 3% interest. The payment of principal and
interest is due on the maturity date or the sale or transfer of the property except for a sale or transfer to an affiliate
nonprofit public benefit corporation or to a limited partnership in which an affiliate is the general partner. The maturity
date shall occur fifty-five (55) years from the date of the receipt of the final certificate of occupancy. Beginning with
borrower’s first fiscal year following the first year after receipt of the certificate of occupancy, borrower shall make
annual payments of principal and interest to the City only from “Available Cash Flow” which is defined from borrower’s
preceding fiscal year. In October 2009, the City received Infill Infrastructure Grant funds from the State of California
in the amount of $3,854,240, which was passed on to the Mid-Peninsula Housing Coalition in the form of a deferred
zero interest loan which is due at maturity, which is 55 years from receipt of the final certificate of occupancy.

86
106 of 240


--- page 107 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 3 — Loans and Notes Receivable (Continued)
MP Delaware Pacific Associates L.P.

In April 2012, the City and the Successor Agency entered into a loan agreement with the Mid-Peninsula Delaware
Pacific Associates, LP. The agreement includes two promissory notes in the amounts of $880,000 (HOME Grant funds)
and $320,000 (Successor Agency Funds), which bear 3% interest. Beginning with borrower’s first fiscal year following
the first year after receipt of the certificate of occupancy, borrower shall make annual payments of principal and interest
to the City only from “Available Cash Flow”, which is defined from borrower’s preceding fiscal year. The payment of
remaining principal and interest is due on the maturity date or the sale or transfer of the property except for a sale or
transfer to an affiliate nonprofit public benefit corporation or to a limited partnership in which an affiliate is the general
partner. The maturity date shall occur fifty-five (55) years from the date of the receipt of the final certificate of
occupancy.

MP Foster Square

In July 2014, the City entered into a loan agreement with Mid-Peninsula Foster Square Associates, LP. The agreement
includes one promissory note in the amount of $420,000 (HOME Grant funds), which bears 3% interest. Beginning
with borrower’s first fiscal year following the first year after receipt of the certificate of occupancy, borrower shall
make annual payments of principal and interest to the City only from “Residual Receipts”, which is defined from the
project’s preceding fiscal year. The payment of remaining principal and interest is due on the maturity date or the sale
or transfer of the property. The maturity date shall occur fifty-five (55) years from the date of the receipt of the final
certificate of occupancy.

Gateway Commons Assessment Loan

In February 2011, the City and the former Redevelopment Agency entered into a loan agreement with the Gateway
Commons Owners Association to assist the owner with paying for a special assessment for needed repairs at the
complex. This agreement provides eligible owners of the affordable units loans in the range of $10,000 to $30,000 as
one-time lump sum special assessment to Gateway Commons. The original term of the loan is 15 years with an interest
rate varying between 0% and 3%. The loan repayment are amortized, deferred, or a combination of both.

Cal Home Loans

In June 2009, the City entered into a program agreement with the California Department of Housing and Community
Development to receive $750,000 in grant funds from the CalHOME program for its Owner Occupancy Rehabilitation
Program. These funds are used for home repair loans up to $60,000 for low and moderate income households at 3%
interest, with payments deferred for 30 years. Loan repayments will go into a revolving loan fund to be used for future
housing loans for owner occupied units.

HIP Housing Development - 1110 Cypress Avenue

In May 2016, the City entered into two loan agreements with HIP Housing Development Corporation in the amounts
of $590,000 and $510,000 to be used for the acquisition of 1110 Cypress Avenue in the City of San Mateo, a 16-unit
apartment complex, for the purpose of providing affordable housing to low and moderate income households.
Commencing on the first day of the month following the first anniversary of the notes, the borrower shall make annual
payments of principal and interest to the City only from “Residual Receipts”, the amount by which gross revenue
exceeds annual operating expenses from the project’s preceding fiscal year. The payment of remaining principal and
interest is due on the maturity date or the sale or transfer of the property. The loans bear simple interest of 3% per
annum, and mature fifty-five (55) years from the date of the notes.

87
107 of 240


--- page 108 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 3 — Loans and Notes Receivable (Continued)
Bay Meadows Affordable Housing

In December 2018, the City lent $2,000,000 to Bay Meadows Affordable Associates, LP for the construction of 68
family rental units. The interest rate is 3%. Annual payments are due beginning with the first fiscal year after
construction completion based on the City’s share of “Residual Receipts” which is defined from the project’s preceding
fiscal year. The payment of remaining principal and interest is due in full 55 years after construction completion.

Child Care Facility Project Loans

On October 15, 2018, the City Council approved Resolution 2018-107, establishing the Interim Child Care Fund
Guidelines and authorized staff to release a Notice of Funding Available (NOFA). The NOFA was intended to invite a
wide breadth of proposals that result in increasing the number of childcare spaces in the City of San Mateo with the
earliest possible completion. The NOFA was released on January 7, 2019 with a deadline date of February 21, 2019.
The City held an informational meeting for potential applicants on January 21, 2019 to review the NOFA document
and requirements and respond to questions from attendees. As this was the first time in providing this NOFA, the loan
documents were developed after the submittal of applications, as it was entirely unknown as to what types of projects
would apply for funds and the potential structure of the funding. Each project offered differing levels of available
leveraged funding, from zero to over 50% of the total development costs.

MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P.

In December 2021, the City entered into three loan agreements with MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., to be
used for the development of Kiku Crossing, a new 225 unit affordable housing project. The agreements include three
promissory notes in the amount of $650,000 (HOME Grant funds), $2,000,000 (Commercial Linkage Fee funds), and
$2,850,000 (Low Mod Income Housing Asset Funds), which bear 3% interest. Beginning with borrower’s first fiscal
year following the first year after receipt of the certificate of occupancy, borrower shall make annual payments of
principal and interest to the City only from “Residual Receipts”, which is defined from the project’s preceding fiscal
year. The payment of remaining principal and interest is due on the maturity date or the sale or transfer of the property.
The maturity date shall occur fifty-seven (57) years from the date of recordation of the leasehold deed of trust.

Town of Hillsborough

In June 2022, the City entered into a capital cost repayment agreement with the Town of Hillsborough (the “Town’’)
for the payment of the Town’s percentage of project costs for clean water projects. The City begun construction on a
comprehensive suite of capital improvements referred to as the “Clean Water Program,” including capital improvements
to the sewage treatment plant. The costs of the sewage treatment plant are allocated based on predetermined factors.
The capital cost repayment agreement carries and interest rate of 1.91% with a term of 30 years. Payments will be in
addition to the periodic charges for wastewater treatment services. As of June 30 2024, the balance of the capital cost
repayment agreement was $38,999,057.

Note 4 — Lease Receivable

The portion of the City’s property is leased to others. Such property includes special purpose facilities, office and
commercial space, and land. Lease receivable consists of agreements with other for the right-to-use of the underlying
assets at various locations owned by the City. The terms of the arrangements range from 5 to 27 years. The calculated
interest rates used vary depending on the length of the lease. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, the City recognized
$647,110 in lease revenue and $330,229 in interest revenue.

88
108 of 240


--- page 109 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 4 — Lease Receivable (Continued)

A summary of changes in lease receivable for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 is as follows:

Classification
Balance Balance Due within Due in More
July 1, 2023 Additions Deletions June 30, 2024 One Year Than One Year
Leases receivable $ 10,127,777 $ 358,785 § (453,988) $ 10,032,574 §$ 485,582 $ 9,546,992

As of June 30, 2024, the required payments for these leases, including interest, are:

Year Ending
June 30, Principal Interest Total
2025 $ 485,582 $ 295,952 $ 781,534
2026 461,841 281,063 742,904
2027 329,837 269,268 599,105
2028 348,615 259,177 607,792
2029 391,984 247,812 639,796
2030-2034 2,256,557 1,044,739 3,301,296
2035-2039 1,708,397 740,285 2,448,682
2040-2044 2,144,148 456,246 2,600,394
2045-2048 1,905,613 109,108 2,014,721
Total $ 10,032,574 $ 3,703,650 $ 13,736,224

As of June 30, 2024, the amounts reported as deferred inflows of resources will be recognized as lease revenue as
follows:

Year Ending Amortization

June 30, Schedule
2025 $ 659,070
2026 617,964
2027 481,758
2028 472,552
2029 472,552

2030-2034 2,338,839

2035-2039 1,550,238

2040-2044 1,516,916

2045-2048 1,112,405

Total $ 9,222,294
89

109 of 240


--- page 110 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 5 — Interfund Transfers

Interfund transfers during the year ended June 30, 2024, consisted of the following:

Transfers In Transfers Out Amount Purpose
General Projects Capital Projects Fund General Fund $ 16,581,401 Capital projects
General Projects Capital Projects Fund Construction Services Special Revenue Fund 300,397 Cap ital projects
General Projects Capital Projects Fund Gas Tax Special Revenue Fund 710,758 Cap ital projects
General Projects Capital Projects Fund Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Fund 97,749 Capital projects
General Projects Capital Projects Fund Solid Waste Special Revenue Fund 437,480 Capital projects
General Projects Capital Projects Fund Traffic Impact Fee Special Revenue Fund 1,046,931 Cap ital projects
General Projects Capital Projects Fund Parks and Recreation Special Revenue Fund 1,032,914 Capital projects
General Projects Capital Projects Fund Landfill Bond Debt Service Fund 35,947 Capital projects
General Projects Capital Projects Fund Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Internal Service Fund 913,548 Cap ital projects
Subtotal 21,157,125
General Fund Construction Services Special Revenue Fund 5,499,933 Other purposes
General Fund Gas Tax Special Revenue Fund 1,747,500 Other purposes
Subtotal 7,247,433
Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Internal Service Fund General Fund 410,000 Cost allocation
Comprehensive Liability Insurance Internal Service Fund General Fund 1,000,000 Cost allocation
General Obligation Bond Debt Service Fund General Fund 2,691,887 Debt service
Total $ 32,506,445

Note 6 — Capital Assets
A. Governmental Activities

The summary of changes in governmental activities capital assets for the year ended June 30, 2024, is as follows:

Balance Balance
July 1, 2023 Additions Deletions Transfers June 30, 2024
Capital assets, not being depreciated
Land $ 52,064,002 $ - §$ - § - $ 52,064,002
Construction in progress 25,161,460 26,755,899 (511,334) (20,993,884) 30,412,141
Total capital assets, not being depreciated 77,225,462 26,755,899 (511,334) (20,993,884) 82,476,143
Capital assets, being dep reciated/amortized
Building and improvements 192,797,505 27,765 - 1,793,966 194,619,236
Machinery and equipment 35,497,334 2,456,294 (1,131,682) - 36,821,946
Infrastructure 593,431,484 - - 19,199,918 612,631,402
Leased assets - buildings and improvements 2,174,617 - - - 2,174,617
Subscription assets 5,788,427 1,077,582 - - 6,866,009
Total capital assets, being depreciated/amortized 829,689,367 3,561,641 (1,131,682) 20,993,884 853,113,210
Accumulated dep reciation/amortization:
Building and improvements (80,765,528) (5,262,168) - - (86,027,696)
Machinery and equipment (26,885,002) (1,746,523) 1,033,036 - (27,598,489)
Infrastructure (321,576,337) (14,315,189) - - (335,891,526)
Leased asset - buildings and improvements (1,178,668) (589,334) - - (1,768,002)
Subscription assets (768,547) (1,000,824) - - (1,769,371)
Total accumulated dep reciation/amortization (431,174,082) (22,914,038) 1,033,036 - (453,055,084)
Total capital assets, being depreciated/amortized, net 398,515,285 (19,352,397) (98,646) 20,993,884 400,058,126
Total capital assets, net $ 475,740,747 $ 7,403,502 $ (609,980) $ - $ 482,534,269

110 of 240


--- page 111 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 6 — Capital Assets (Continued)
A. Governmental Activities (Continued)

Depreciation and amortization expense were charged to the functions/programs of the governmental activities as

follows:

General government $ 890,796
Community development 260,592
Public safety 1,723,432
Public works 14,280,867
Parks and recreation 2,880,803
Library 1,606,497
Internal service funds 1,271,051

Total depreciation/amortization expenses $ 22,914,038

B. Business-Type Activities

The summary of changes in business-type activities capital assets for the year ended June 30, 2024, is as follows:

Balance Balance
July 1, 2023 Additions Deletions Transfers June 30, 2024
Capital assets, not being depreciated
Land $ 4,052,298 $ - $§ - $ - § 4,052,298
Construction in progress 530,698,148 90,274,678 - (11,307,285) 609,665,541
Total capital assets, not being depreciated 534,750,446 90,274,678 - (11,307,285) 613,717,839
Capital assets, being depreciated/amortized
Sewer treatment plant
and transmission lines 279,270,582 - - 11,307,285 290,577,867
Machinery and equipment 2,325,728 199,373 - - 2,525,101
Leased assets - machinery and equipment 110,037 - - - 110,037
Total capital assets, being depreciated/amortized 281,706,347 199,373 - 11,307,285 293,213,005
Accumulated dep reciation/amortization:
Sewer treatment plant
and transmission lines (115,793,403) (5,460,029) - - (121,253,432)
Machinery and equipment (1,223,400) (138,706) - - (1,362,106)
Leased assets - machinery and equipment (34,540) (36,679) - - (71,219)
Total accumulated dep reciation/amortization (117,051,343) (5,635,414) - - (122,686,757)
Total capital assets, being dep reciated/amortized, net 164,655,004 (5,436,041) - 11,307,285 170,526,248
Total capital assets, net $ 699,405,450 $ 84,838,637 $ - $ -  $ 784,244,087

Depreciation and amortization expense was charged to the Sewer Fund in the amount of $5,635,414.

91
111 of 240


--- page 112 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 7 — Long-Term Liabilities

A. Summary

Final
Maturity
Governmental Activities
Direct Borrowing:
CEC Streetlight Loan 2030
PG&E - Energy Efficiency Retrofit Loans 2031
Advance liability 2047
Lease liability 2025
Subscription liability 2033
Public Borrowing:
General Obligation Bonds, Series 2013
(Library Improvement Project) 2031
Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2007A
(Public Safety Project) 2039
Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2018A
(Golf Course Project) 2030
Total Governmental Activities
Business-Type Activities
Direct Borrowing:
Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act
(WIFIA) Loan 2056
Lease Liability 2025
Public Borrowing:
Sewer Revenue Bonds, Series 2014 2045
Wastewater Revenue Bonds, Series 2019 2050
Wastewater Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2021A 2042
Total Business-Type Activities
Fidiciary Funds
Public Borrowing:
Tax Allocation Refunding Bonds, Series 2015A 2033
Tax Allocation Refunding Bonds, Series 2017A 2026

Total Successor Agency

Interest

1.00%
0.00%
3.00%
3.00%
1.71% - 3.14%

3.00% - 4.00%

Variable rate

2.25% - 5.00%

1.31%
0.46%

3.00% - 5.00%

4.00% - 5.00%
2.00% - 5.00%

4.00% - 5.00%
2.00% - 5.00%

92

Annual Original
Principal Issue

Installments Amounts
$254,364 - $260,544 $ 3,000,000
$351,219 3,356,274
$335,000 - $2,530,000 45,765,000
$442,060 - $611,348 2,169,194
$309,519 - $947,110 4,291,977
$1,520,000 - $2,070,000 27,295,000
$480,000 - $1,195,000 17,400,000
$495,000 - $665,000 6,050,000

$ 109,327,445

$2,000,000 - $17,407,595 $295,479,360
$37,796 - $37,968 110,037
$670,000 - $2,665,000 32,255,000
$2,520,000 - $16,020,000 236,180,000
$530,000 - $935,000 14,265,000

$ 578,289,397

$530,000 - $4,150,000  $ 31,210,000
$2,425,000 - $3,100,000 21,440,000
$ 52,650,000

Outstanding at
June 30, 2024

$ 1,524,968
2,163,827
41,430,000
442,060
3,650,644

13,030,000
12,625,000

3,680,000
$ 78,546,499

$ 295,479,360
37,968

25,680,000
236,180,000
13,070,000

$ 570,447,328

$ 29,415,000
6,045,000

$ 35,460,000

112 of 240


--- page 113 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 7 — Long-Term Liabilities (Continued)
B. Governmental Activities

A summary of changes in the long-term liabilities for the year ended June 30, 2024, is as follows:

Classification
Balance Debt Debt Balance Due within Due in More
July 1, 2023 Issued Retired June 30, 2024 One Year Than One Year

Bonds payable:
General Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2013 $ 14,620,000 $ - $ (1,590,000) $ 13,030,000 $ 1,660,000 $ 11,370,000
plus: unamortized bond premium 1,112,859 - (157,109) 955,750 - 955,750
Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2007A 13,135,000 - (510,000) 12,625,000 545,000 12,080,000
Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2018A 4,200,000 - (520,000) 3,680,000 550,000 3,130,000
plus: unamortized bond premium 286,442 - (47,087) 239,355 - 239,355
Total bonds payable 33,354,301 - (2,824,196) 30,530,105 2,755,000 27,775,105

Advance payable to other government

Advance payable to other government 42,660,000 - (1,230,000) 41,430,000 1,285,000 40,145,000
plus: unamortized advance premium PAN 39 - (286,444) 6,826,907 - 6,826,907
Total advance payable to other government 49,773,351 - (1,516,444) 48,256,907 1,285,000 46,971,907

Loans payable:
CEC Streetlight Loan 1,770,332 - (245,364) 1,524,968 247,869 1,277,099
PG&E - Energy Efficiency Retrofit Loans 2,515,046 - (351,219) 2,163,827 351,219 1,812,608
Total loans payable 4,285,378 - (596,583) 3,688,795 599,088 3,089,707
Lease liability 1,053,407 - (611,347) 442,060 442,060 -
Subscription liability 3,472,655 1,076,231 (898,242) 3,650,644 791,859 2,858,785
Total $ 91,939,092 $ 1,076,231 $ (6,446,812) $ 86,568,511 $ 5,873,007 $ 80,695,504

General Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2013

On March 21, 2013, the City issued $27,295,000 principal amount General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Library
Improvement Project), Series 2013 (2013 Refunding Bonds). The proceeds of the 2013 Refunding Bonds were used
to refund the 2000 and 2004A General Obligation Bonds. The 2000 and 2004A General Obligation Bonds were
used to finance the construction, acquisition and improvement of a new main library and the improvement of the
City’s branch libraries. The General Obligation Refunding Bonds mature annually each August | through 2030,
with installments ranging from $1,520,000 to $2,070,000. The interest on the Bonds is payable semi-annually on
each February | and August 1, with coupons ranging from 3.0% to 4.0%.

The 2013 Refunding Bonds are secured by voter-approved, ad valorem property taxes. Annual principal and interest
payments on the bonds are expected to require 100% percent of net revenues. Total principal and interest remaining
to be paid on the 2013 Refunding Bonds is $14,566,575. For the current year, principal and interest paid on the
2013 Refunding Bonds was $2,049,050 and ad valorem property tax net revenues were $2,724,717.

The annual debt service requirements on the 2013 General Obligation Refunding Bonds are as follows:

Year Ending

June 30, Principal Interest Total
2025 $ 1,660,000 $ 402,350 $ 2,062,350
2026 1,720,000 351,650 2,071,650
2027 1,775,000 290,350 2,065,350
2028 1,860,000 217,650 2,077,650
2029 1,940,000 151,350 2,091,350

2030-2031 4,075,000 123,225 4,198,225
Total $ 13,030,000 $ 1,536,575 $ 14,566,575

93
113 of 240


--- page 114 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 7 — Long-Term Liabilities (Continued)
B. Governmental Activities (Continued)
Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2007A

On April 19, 2007, the City of San Mateo Joint Powers Financing Authority issued $17,400,000 principal amount
Variable Rate Demand Lease Revenue Bonds (Public Safety Project), Series 2007A (2007A Variable Rate Bonds).
The proceeds of the 2007A Variable Rate Bonds contributed to the construction of a new police administration
facility with a total project cost of $58,500,000. Other sources of funding for this project included transient
occupancy tax (hotel tax), redevelopment agency funds, sale of the existing police facility site, and General Fund
contributions. The 2007A Variable Rate Bonds mature through April 1, 2039 with installments ranging from
$480,000 to $1,195,000. The interest on the Bonds is payable monthly from the lease revenue to the Authority from
the City. The interest rate on the Bonds is based on the weekly variable rate set by the remarketing agent, which
can be no greater than 12% per annum. Weekly rates during the fiscal year varied from 0.58% to 3.70%, for an
average weekly interest rate for the fiscal year of 2.05%. In addition, the letter of credit is with Wells Fargo and has
an annual fee of 0.45%. The City also pays letter of credit (LOC) bank fees and remarketing agent fees on a quarterly
basis. The remarketing agent is Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. and the annual remarketing fee has been 0.09% since 2007.

The City has elected to use the 2% transient occupancy tax (hotel tax) authorized by Measure C, backed by a
General Fund lease, to pay the annual principal and interest payments on the bonds. For the current year, principal,
interest and other debt expenses paid were $836,307, while 2% transient occupancy tax revenues (TOT) were
$887,679, resulting in a net gain of $51,372. This fund typically generated annual debt service coverage of 2:1, and
the accumulated surplus of hotel tax revenues not needed for debt service serve as a built-in hedge against interest
rate volatility. Variable rate debt requires that the City constantly monitors risk versus return and consider whether
to retain this debt structure. Total principal and interest remaining to be paid on the 2007A Lease Revenue Bonds
is $12,625,000.

The annual principal requirements on these bonds are as follows:

Year Ending

June 30, Principal Interest* Total
2025 $ 545,000 § - § 545,000
2026 580,000 - 580,000
2027 615,000 - 615,000
2028 655,000 - 655,000
2029 695,000 - 695,000

2030-2034 4,130,000 - 4,130,000

2035-2039 5,405,000 - 5,405,000
Total $ 12,625,000 $ - $ 12,625,000

*Interest based on weekly variable rate, therefore, annual interest
requirements indeterminable

94
114 of 240


--- page 115 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 7 — Long-Term Liabilities (Continued)
B. Governmental Activities (Continued)
Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2018A

On May 1, 2018, the City of San Mateo Joint Powers Financing Authority issued $6,050,000 in Revenue Refunding
Bonds Series 2018A (2018A Revenue Bonds) to refinance the City of San Mateo Joint Powers Financing Authority
Revenue Bonds, Refunding Series 2007B, which were issued to refinance the City of San Mateo Joint Powers
Financing Authority Revenue Bonds, Series 1999 (issued to finance the construction and renovation of an 18-hole
municipal golf course and appurtenant facilities). The refunding resulted in $516,000 gross debt service (principal
and interest) savings over 20 years, and an economic gain of $420,000. The refunding resulted in an accounting
deferred loss on refunding of $151,432. The 2018A Revenue Bonds mature through August 1, 2029, with
installments ranging from $495,000 to $665,000. The interest on the Bonds is payable semi-annually on each
February | and August 1, and coupons range from 2.25% to 5% annually. The 2018A Revenue Bonds are payable
solely from golf course facility lease revenue to the Authority. The 2018A Revenue Bonds are subject to early
redemption provisions.

Prior to fiscal year 2018-19, the City funded the lease payments to the Authority from golf charges for services
from the enterprise Golf Fund. Beginning fiscal year 2018-19, in recognition of the annual subsidy of golf
operations from the City’s General Fund, the City moved its enterprise Golf Fund to the General Fund as a sub-
fund. As such, lease payments to the Authority are funded by the City’s General Fund since 2018-19. Principal and
interest paid for the current year and golf course facility gross revenues were $665,850 and $3,377,963, respectively.
The total principal and interest remaining to be paid on the Bonds is $4,023,413.

The annual debt service requirements on these bonds are as follows:

Year Ending
June 30, Principal Interest Total
2025 $ 550,000 $ 119,100 $ 669,100
2026 575,000 90,975 665,975
2027 605,000 61,475 666,475
2028 635,000 39,206 674,206
2029 650,000 24,344 674,344
2030 665,000 8,313 673,313
Total $ 3,680,000 $ 343,413 $ 4,023,413

Advance Payable to Other Government

On February 27, 2020, the JPFA issued the 2020 Series A and B Lease Revenue Bonds utilizing a Lease-leaseback
agreement between the JPFA and the City. The lease agreement required the JPFA to pay upfront for the right to
use of the buildings and leasehold improvements, owned by the City, over a period of time corresponding to the
JPFA’s debt service requirement. The leaseback agreement required the City to make rental payments in amounts
corresponding to the JPFA’s debt services requirements and related costs. Per the implementation of GASB 87
Leases, the components of lease-leaseback agreements are to be netted in the financial statements, therefore the
Authority will only record an advance receivable from other government for the amount to be paid back by the City
for the upfront lease payment which reflects the present value of remaining future lease payments due to the JPFA.
As of June 30, 2024, the City’s advance payable to other government balance was $41,430,000 with a remaining
premium on advance balance of $6,826,907. Total principal and interest remaining to be paid on the advance from
other government is $65,458,917.

95
115 of 240


--- page 116 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 7 — Long-Term Liabilities (Continued)
B. Governmental Activities (Continued)

Advance Payable to Other Government (Continued)

The annual debt service requirements on the advance payable to other government are as follows:

Year Ending

June 30, Principal Interest Total
2025 $ 1,285,000 $ 1,734,124 §$ 3,019,124
2026 1,340,000 1,680,638 3,020,638
2027 1,395,000 1,624,313 3,019,313
2028 1,440,000 1,575,436 3,015,436
2029 1,490,000 1,524,568 3,014,568

2030-2034 6,780,000 6,759,988 13,539,988

2035-2039 8,140,000 5,013,850 13,153,850

2040-2044 10,010,000 3,142,400 13,152,400

2045-2048 9,550,000 973,600 10,523,600
Total $ 41,430,000 $24,028,917 $ 65,458,917

CEC Streetlight Loan

On January 14, 2015, the City entered into a loan agreement with the State of California Energy Conservation and
Development Commission in the amount of $3,000,000 for the City-wide LED and High Voltage Conversion
project. Loan funds are to be disbursed to the City on a reimbursement basis based on invoices submitted by the
City for actual expenditures incurred for the project.

Semiannual payments due to the Energy Commission under this agreement are expected to be made from savings
in energy costs or other available funds. The Loan accrues interest at a rate of 1.00% per annum on the unpaid

principal computed from the date of each disbursement to the City.

The annual debt service requirements for the CEC Streetlight Loan were as follows:

Year Ending
June 30, Principal Interest Total
2025 $ 247,869 § 14,633 $ 262,502
2026 250,354 12,148 262,502
2027 252,863 9,639 262,502
2028 255,381 7,121 262,502
2029 257,958 4,544 262,502
2030 260,543 1,957 262,500
Total $ 1,524,968 §$ 50,042 §$ 1,575,010

96
116 of 240


--- page 117 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 7 — Long-Term Liabilities (Continued)

B. Governmental Activities (Continued)
PG&E - Energy Efficiency Retrofit Loans
On February 24, 2020, the City modified the loan agreement with Pacific Gas and Electric Company in the amount
of $3,356,274 for the Sustainable Solutions Turnkey project. Loan funds are tobe disbursed to the City on a

reimbursement basis based on invoices submitted by the City for actual expenditures incurred for the project.

Monthly payments due under this agreement are expected to be made from savings in energy costs or other available
funds. The loan does not accrue interest.

The annual debt service requirements for the Energy Efficiency Retrofit Loans were as follows:

Year Ending

June 30, Principal Interest Total
2025 $ 351,219 §$ - § 351,219
2026 351,219 - 351,219
2027 351,219 - 351,219
2028 351,219 - 351,219
2029 351,219 - 351,219

2030-2031 407,732 - 407,732
Total $ 2,163,827 $ - § 2,163,827

Lease Liability

The City has entered into leases for building space and equipment use. The terms of the agreements range from 3
to 4 years. The calculated interest rate based on the length of the lease is 3.00%. As of June 30, 2024, the capitalized
right-to-use assets related to leases were $2,174,617 and the total lease liability was $442,060, of which $442,060
is reported as a current liability representing the amount due within the next fiscal year.

The annual debt service requirements for the lease liability were as follows:

Year Ending
June 30, Principal Interest Total
2025 $ 442,060 $ 5,448 §$ 447,508

Subscription Liability

The City has entered into subscription-based information technology arrangements (SBITAs) for services related
to cloud-based software applications, data storage and management services. Under the terms of these
arrangements, the City does not take possession of the software at any time and the vendor provides ongoing
services for the software's operation. The subscription periods vary, with initial non-cancellable terms ranging from
3 to 10 years. The calculated interest rate used was between 1.71% and 3.14%, depending on the length of the
SBITA and date of the agreement.

As of June 30, 2024, the capitalized right-to-use assets related to SBITAs were $6,866,009 and the total subscription
liability was $3,650,644, of which $791,859 is reported as a current liability representing the amount due within
the next fiscal year.

97
117 of 240


--- page 118 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 7 — Long-Term Liabilities (Continued)
B. Governmental Activities (Continued)

Subscription Liability (Continued)

The annual debt service requirements for the subscription liability were as follows:

Year Ending
June 30, Principal Interest Total
2025 $ 791,859 $ 83,361 $ 875,220
2026 731,957 65,026 796,983
2027 486,433 48,762 535,195
2028 500,768 37,429 538,197
2029 359,786 25,768 385,554
2030-2033 779,841 29,652 809,493
Total $ 3,650,644 $ 305,047 $ 3,940,642

C. Business-Type Activities

A summary of changes in the long-term liabilities of the business-type activities for the year ended June 30, 2024,
is as follows:

Classification
Balance Debt Debt Balance Due within Due in More
July 1, 2023 Issued Retired June 30, 2024 One Year Than One Year
Bonds payable:
Sewer Revenue Bonds, Series 2014A $ 26,915,000 $ - $ (1,235,000) $ 25,680,000 $ 1,300,000 $ 24,380,000
plus: unamortized bond premium 1,589,438 - (75,688) 1,513,750 - 1,513,750
Wastewater Revenue Bonds, Series 2019 236,180,000 - - 236,180,000 - 236,180,000
plus: unamortized bond premium 40,594,633 - (1,618,391) 38,976,242 - 38,976,242
Wastewater Revenue Notes, Series 2021B 271,565,000 - (271,565,000) - - -
plus: unamortized bond premium 25,270,479 - (25,270,479) - - -
Wastewater Revenue Refunding
Bonds, Series 2021A 13,700,000 - (630,000) 13,070,000 660,000 12,410,000
plus: unamortized bond premium 3,320,992 - (174,789) 3,146,203 - 3,146,203
Total bonds payable 619,135,542 - (300,569,347) 318,566,195 1,960,000 316,606,195
Notes payable:
Water Infrastructure Finance and
Innovation Act (WIFIA) Loan - 295,479,360 - 295,479,360 - 295,479,360
Total notes payable - 295,479,360 - 295,479,360 - 295,479,360
Lease liability 75,764 - (37,796) 37,968 37,968 -
Total $ 619,211,306 $ 295,479,360  $ (300,607,143) $ 614,083,523 $ 1,997,968 $ 612,085,555

Sewer Revenue Bonds, Series 2014A

On July 2, 2014, the City issued Sewer Revenue Bonds, Series 2014A (Series 2014A Bonds), totaling $32,255,000.
The purpose was to refund the City’s outstanding Sewer Revenue Bonds, Series 2003, and finance various
improvements to the City’s municipal sewer enterprise.

98
118 of 240


--- page 119 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 7 — Long-Term Liabilities (Continued)

C. Business-Type (Continued)
Sewer Revenue Bonds, Series 2014A (Continued)
The Series 2014A Bonds mature through August 1, 2044, with installments ranging from $670,000 to $2,665,000.
The interest on the Series 2014A Bonds is payable semi-annually on February 1 and August | of each year, with
coupons ranging from 3.00% to 5.00%. The Series 2014A Bonds are payable solely from net revenues received by
the City from the operation of the sewer enterprise and certain funds and accounts held under the Indenture. Total

principal and interest remaining to be paid on the Bonds is $37,264,561.

The annual debt service requirements on the Series 2014A Bonds are as follows:

Year Ending
June 30, Principal Interest Total
2025 $ 1,300,000 §$ 992,815 $ 2,292,815
2026 1,365,000 926,190 2,291,190
2027 1,435,000 856,190 2,291,190
2028 1,510,000 782,565 2,292,565
2029 1,570,000 721,265 2,291,265
2030-2034 3,585,000 3,207,573 6,792,573
2035-2039 4,260,000 2,526,250 6,786,250
2040-2044 7,990,000 1,518,413 9,508,413
2045 2,665,000 53,300 2,718,300
Total $ 25,680,000 $ 11,584,561 $ 37,264,561

Wastewater Revenue Bonds, Series 2019

In June of 2019, the City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District/City of Foster City jointly
issued the 2019 Series Wastewater Revenue Bonds in the amount of $270,000,000 (2019 Wastewater Bonds)
through a joint powers financing authority, San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority (Authority). Of the
total issuance amount, the City is responsible for $236,180,000. Interest payments are payable semi-annually on
February | and August 1, commencing February 1, 2020. The bonds mature through August 1, 2049, and bear
interest at the rate of 4.00% - 5.00%. The issuance resulted in a bond premium of $53,780,407, of which the City’s
share was $47,201,120.

Interest payments and revenue bond retirements are serviced by the revenues generated by the City of San Mateo
Sewer Enterprise Fund and the Foster City/Estero Municipal Improvement District Wastewater Enterprise Fund
pursuant to a reimbursement agreement. The City’s total principal and interest remaining to be paid on the bonds
is $413,160,475.

99
119 of 240


--- page 120 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 7 — Long-Term Liabilities (Continued)
C. Business-Type Activities (Continued)

Wastewater Revenue Bonds, Series 2019 (Continued)

The annual debt service requirements on the 2019 Wastewater Bonds were as follows:

Year Ending

June 30, Principal Interest Total
2025 $ - $ 10,947,250 $ 10,947,250
2026 2,520,000 10,884,250 13,404,250
2027 3,650,000 10,730,000 14,380,000
2028 4,830,000 10,518,000 15,348,000
2029 5,070,000 10,270,500 15,340,500

2030-2034 34,300,000 46,713,500 81,013,500

2035-2039 44,930,000 37,170,650 82,100,650

2040-2044 55,690,000 26,417,750 82,107,750

2045-2049 69,170,000 12,928,075 82,098,075
2050 16,020,000 400,500 16,420,500
Total $ 236,180,000 $ 176,980,475 $ 413,160,475

Wastewater Revenue Notes, Series 2021B

On July 1, 2021, the Authority issued the 2021 Series Wastewater Revenue Note in the amount of $62,760,000 and
$271,565,000 respectively. The 2021B Notes were issued to costs of the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP)
capital improvements. Of the total issuance amount, the City is responsible for $271,565,000. Interest payments are
payable semi- annually on February 1 and August 1, commencing February 1, 2022. The bonds mature through
August 1, 2025, and bear interest at the rate of 5.00%. The issuance resulted in a bond premium of $62,249,468, of
which the City’s share was $50,540,962. The Notes were refunded with the issuance of the 2024 WIFIA Loans.

Wastewater Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2021A

On July 1, 2021, the Authority issued the 2021 Series A Wastewater Revenue Refunding Bonds in the amount of
$14,265,000. The Bonds were issued to refund the City of San Mateo’s 2011 Series A Bonds, which provided an
arbitrage yield of 0.465% and $7.4 million in PV debt service savings. The aggregate difference between the
remaining debt service requirements of the 201 1A Bonds and the Revenue Refunding Bonds at the time of refunding
was $634,014.

100
120 of 240


--- page 121 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 7 — Long-Term Liabilities (Continued)
C. Business-Type Activities (Continued)
Wastewater Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2021A (Continued)

The Series 2021A Bonds mature annually each August | through 2041, with installments ranging from $530,000
to $935,000. Interest payments are payable semi- annually on February 1. and August 1, commencing
February 1, 2022. The bonds mature through August 1, 2041, and bear interest at the rate of 1.55-5.00%. The
issuance resulted in a bond premium of $3,670,571. The Series 2021A Bonds are payable solely from net revenues
received by the City from the operation of the sewer enterprise and certain funds and accounts held under the
Indenture. Total principal and interest remaining to be paid on the Bonds is $18,336,875.

The annual debt service requirements for the Series 2021A Bonds were as follows:

Year Ending

June 30, Principal Interest Total
2025 $ 660,000 $ 577,050 $ 1,237,050
2026 690,000 543,300 1,233,300
2027 730,000 507,800 1,237,800
2028 770,000 470,300 1,240,300
2029 810,000 430,800 1,240,800

2030-2034 2,945,000 1,699,625 4,644,625

2035-2039 3,775,000 896,975 4,671,975

2040-2042 2,690,000 141,025 2,831,025
Total $ 13,070,000 $ 5,266,875 $ 18,336,875

Treatment of Revenue Bonds in Aggregate

The City has covenanted in the indenture, to the maximum extent permitted by law, to set rates and charges for the
service and facilities of the Sewer Enterprise sufficient to provide net revenues each fiscal year equal to 120% of
the aggregate annual amount of principal and interest due on all parity obligations for such fiscal year and sufficient
to provide net revenues each fiscal year equal to at least 100% of the aggregate amount of principal and interest due
on all parity obligations and subordinate obligations for such fiscal year.

There are four revenue bonds/notes secured by revenues received from the operation of the Sewer Enterprise: Series
2014A Sewer bonds, 2019 Wastewater bonds, and 2021 Wastewater bonds. Annual principal and interest payments
on the three bonds are expected to require 20% of net revenues. For the current year, principal and interest paid on
the Series 2014A Sewer bonds was $2,291,190, on the 2019 Wastewater bonds was $10,947,250, and on the 2021
Wastewater bonds was $1,239,300. Sewer services net revenues were $49,460,487.

Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act Loan

In 2020, the PFA entered into the Wastewater Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) loan agreements
with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for capital improvement projects of the wastewater
treatment plant (WWTP), jointly owned by San Mateo and Foster City/EMID, up to $210,339,360 (San Mateo) and
$66,860,640 (Foster City/EMID), respectively. In addition, San Mateo’s WIFIA loan for its Basin 2 & 3 collection
project allows for loan proceeds up to $85,140,000. San Mateo’s WWTP WIFIA loan bears interest at 1.32% and
its Basin 2 & 3 WIFIA loan bears interest at 1.31%. Foster City/EMID’s WWTP loan bears interest at 1.14%.
Interest payments and revenue bond retirements are serviced by lease payments made by the City and Foster
City/EMID.

101
121 of 240


--- page 122 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 7 — Long-Term Liabilities (Continued)
C. Business-Type Activities (Continued)
Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act Loan (Continued)

On February 9, 2024, EPA approved the loan amendments to allow for early draws on the WIFIA loans.
Subsequently, San Mateo and Foster City/EMID submitted draw requisitions for the full amount of their WIFIA
loans, $66,860,640 for Foster City/EMID and $295,479,360 for San Mateo.

On February 15, 2024, City received the WIFIA loan proceeds and used part of the loan proceeds to defease the
2021 Wastewater Revenue Notes, Series B. The defeasances were closed on February 15, 2024. Interest payments
are payable semi- annually on February | and August 1, commencing August 1, 2024. The bonds mature through
August 1, 2055, and bear interest at the rate of 1.31%. The total principal and interest remaining to be paid on the
bonds at June 30, 2024 was $370,584,812.

The annual debt service requirements for the WIFIA loans outstanding at June 30, 2024 were as follows:

Year Ending
June 30, Principal Interest Total
2025 $ - $ 3,729,655 $ 3,729,655
2026 3,042,797 3,871,849 6,914,646
2027 3,488,616 3,828,980 7,317,596
2028 3,940,356 3,780,190 7,720,546
2029 4,398,095 3,725,400 8,123,495
2030-2034 29,072,176 17,589,540 46,661,716
2035-2039 41,462,643 15,272,811 56,735,454
2040-2044 54,698,022 12,111,171 66,809,193
2045-2049 68,835,928 8,047,004 76,882,932
2050-2054 79,937,906 3,045,066 82,982,972
2055-2056 6,602,821 103,786 6,706,607
Total $ 295,479,360 $ 75,105,452 $ 370,584,812

Lease Liability

The City has entered into a lease for equipment use. The terms of the agreements was for 3 years. The calculated
interest rate based on the length of the lease was 0.46 percent. As of June 30, 2024, the capitalized right-to-use
assets related to leases were $110,037 and the total lease liability was $37,968, of which $37,968 is reported as a
current liability representing the amount due within the next fiscal year.

The annual debt service requirements for the lease liability were as follows:

Year Ending
June 30, Principal Interest Total
2025 $ 37,968 § 94 = § 38,062

102
122 of 240


--- page 123 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 7 — Long-Term Liabilities (Continued)

D. Fiduciary Funds Private Purpose Trust Funds - Successor Agency to the Redevelopment Agency of the City of
San Mateo

A summary of changes in the long-term liabilities of the fiduciary fund financial statements for the year ended
June 30, 2024, is as follows:

Classification

Balance Debt Debt Balance Due within Due in More
July 1, 2023 Issued Retired June 30, 2024 One Year Than One Year
Fiduciary Activities:
Bonds payable:
Tax Allocation Refunding Bonds, Series 2015A $ 30,680,000 $ - $> (1,265,000) $ 29,415,000 $ 1,325,000 $ 28,090,000
plus: unamortized bond premium 1,641,067 - (182,340) 1,458,727 - 1,458,727
Tax Allocation Refunding Bonds, Series 2017A 8,855,000 - (2,810,000) 6,045,000 2,945,000 3,100,000
plus: unamortized bond premium 869,743 - (417,478) 452,265 - 452,265
Total bonds payable 42,045,810 - (4,674,818) 37,370,992 4,270,000 33,100,992
Total $ 42,045,810 $ - $ (4,674,818) $ 37,370,992 $ 4,270,000 $ 33,100,992

Tax Allocation Refunding Bonds, Series 2015A

On August 5, 2015, the Successor Agency of the Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Mateo issued
$31,210,000 principal amount Tax Allocation Refunding Bonds, Series 2015A (2015A Refunding Bonds). The
proceeds of the 2015A Refunding Bonds were used to advance refund the Merged Area Tax Allocation Bonds,
Series 2005A Bonds. The 2015A Refunding Bonds are tax-exempt. The 2015A Refunding Bonds mature through
August 1, 2032, with installments ranging from $530,000 to $4,150,000. The interest on the 2015A Refunding
Bonds is payable semi-annually on each February | and August 1, with coupon rates ranging from 4.00% to 5.00%.
The 2015A Refunding Bonds are subject to early redemption provisions. Total principal and interest remaining to
be paid on the Bonds is $36,574,375.

The annual debt service requirements on the 2015A Refunding Bonds are as follows:

Year Ending

June 30, Principal Interest Total
2025 $ 1,325,000 $ 1,375,750 $ 2,700,750
2026 1,375,000 1,321,750 2,696,750
2027 3,840,000 1,198,250 5,038,250
2028 4,025,000 1,001,625 5,026,625
2029 3,410,000 815,750 4,225,750

2030-2033 15,440,000 1,446,250 16,886,250
Total $ 29,415,000 $ 7,159,375 $ 36,574,375

Tax Allocation Refunding Bonds, Series 2017A

On October 17, 2017, the Successor Agency of the Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Mateo issued
$21,440,000 principal amount Tax Allocation Refunding Bonds, Series 2017A (2017A Refunding Bonds). The
proceeds of the 2017A Refunding Bonds were used to advance refund the tax-exempt Merged Area Tax Allocation
Refunding Bonds, Series 2007A. The 2017A Refunding Bonds are tax-exempt. The 2017A Refunding Bonds
mature through August 1, 2025, with installments ranging from $2,425,000 to $3,100,000. The interest on the
2017A Refunding Bonds is payable semi-annually on each February 1 and August 1, with coupon rates of 5.00%.
The 2017A Refunding Bonds are subject to early redemption provisions. Total principal and interest remaining to
be paid on the Bonds is $6,351,125.

103
123 of 240


--- page 124 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 7 — Long-Term Liabilities (Continued)

D. Fiduciary Funds Private Purpose Trust Funds - Successor Agency to the Redevelopment Agency of the City of
San Mateo (Continued)

Tax Allocation Refunding Bonds, Series 2017A (Continued)

The annual debt service requirements on the 2017A Refunding Bonds are as follows:

Year Ending
June 30, Principal Interest Total
2025 $ 2,945,000 $ 228,625 © $ »3,173,625
2026 3,100,000 77,500 3,177,500
Total $ 6,045,000 $ 306,125 $ 6,351,125

Pledged Revenues

Tax Allocation Bonds held by the Successor Agency of the Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Mateo are
secured by property tax revenues. For the current year, principal and interest paid on the Series 2015A and 2017A,
Tax Allocation Bonds were $2,692,550 and $3,182,500, respectively and Redevelopment Agency Property Tax
Trust Fund distributions were $5,994,500.

Note 8 — Special Assessment Debt with No City Commitment

The City issued special tax and assessment bonds on behalf of property owners, pursuant to the Improvement Bond Act
of 1915 and the Mellow-Roos Community Facilities Act of 1982, to finance the acquisition and construction of certain
infrastructure improvements within the assessment districts and community facilities districts.

The City has authorized the formation of the Bay Meadows Community Facilities District No. 2008-1 (Bay Meadows
CFD), acting through its eligible landowner voters, and the issuance of bonds under the public improvement act (Mello-
Roos Community Facilities Act of 1982) of the State of California to finance eligible public facilities necessary to serve
developing commercial, industrial, residential and/or mixed use developments. The bonds are secured by annual special
tax levies or liens placed on the property within the district.

The City is not liable for repayment and acts only as an agent for the property owners in collecting the special taxes or
assessments, forwarding the collections to bondholders, and initiating foreclosure proceedings when necessary. These
bonds are payable solely from special taxes or assessments, specific reserves, and the proceeds from property
foreclosures to be levied by the Bay Meadows CFD. The City is the collecting and paying agent for the debt, but has
no direct or contingent liability for the payment of this debt. Accordingly, the special tax bonds are not reported as
liabilities in the City’s basic financial statements.

Noncommittal debt amounts issued and outstanding at June 30, 2024 are as follows:

Outstanding
Original Balance
Amount June 30, 2024

CFD 2008-1, Series Special Tax Bonds Refunding Bonds Series 2022 $ 72,345,000 $ 71,350,000

104
124 of 240


--- page 125 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 9 — Compensated Absences

Employees accrue vacation, annual leave, earned time off, and holiday leave up to certain maximums, based on the
employee’s bargaining unit. Employees may elect to be paid a portion of these leaves at various times according to the
applicable Memorandum of Understanding. Sick leave may be accumulated without limit. Sick leave may be paid upon
retirement up to 50% of accumulated balance up to 960 hours with the maximum payout not to exceed 480 hours.

A. Governmental Activities

A summary of changes in the compensated absences balances for the governmental activities for the year ended
June 30, 2024 is as follows:

Classification
Balance Balance Due within Due in More
July 1, 2023 Additions Deletions June 30, 2024 One Year Than One Year

Compensated absences $ 7,993,834 $. 7,319,664 $ (7,034,953) $ 8,278,545 §$ 910,640 $ 7,367,905

Compensated absences in the governmental activities generally liquidate to the General Fund.
B. Business-Type Activities

A summary of changes in the compensated absences balances for the business-type activities for the year ended
June 30, 2024 is as follows:

Classification
Balance Balance Due within Due in More
July 1, 2023 Additions Deletions June 30, 2024 One Year Than One Year

Compensated absences $ 1,108,325 $ 1,199,221 $§ (1,206,426) $ 1,101,120 §$ 121,123 § 979,997

Compensated absences in the business-type activities are obligations of the Sewer Fund.

Note 10 — Landfill Closure

The City is responsible for closing the East Third Avenue Waste Disposal and Landfill site in accordance with the
California Code of Regulations under the jurisdiction of the California Integrated Waste Management Board. In fiscal
year 1992, the City developed a Closure Plan that in management’s view will meet all regulatory requirements. As
stated in the California Code of Regulations, Division 2 Title 27 Article 2 Section 21180, “a) the landfill shall be
maintained and monitored for a period of not less than fifteen (15) years after the completion of closure of the entire
solid waste landfill.” The landfill is at capacity and inactive, and final closure occurred in FY 2005-06.

As of June 30, 2024, the estimated amount of $1,728,952 has been recorded as Landfill Post-Closure Costs Payable in
the Government-Wide Financial Statements.

Classification
Balance Balance Due within Due in More
July 1, 2023 Additions Deletions June 30, 2024 One Year Than One Year

Landfill closure and

post-closure costs payable $ 1,668,873 $ 171,337 $ (111,258) $ 1,728,952 $ 115,264 §$ 1,613,688

125 of 240


--- page 126 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 11 — Pension Plans

A. Summary

Deferred outflows of resources:
Pension contribution made after measurement date:
CalPERS Miscellaneous
CalPERS Safety

Total pension contribution made after measurement date

Change in assumptions
CalPERS Miscellaneous

Total change in assumptions

Projected earnings on pension plan investments in excess of actual earnings:

CalPERS Miscellaneous
CalPERS Safety

Total projected earnings on pension plan investments in excess of
actual earnings

Difference between expected and actual experience
CalPERS M iscellaneous
CalPERS Safety
Total difference between expected and actual experience
Total deferred outflows of resources
CalPERS Miscellaneous
CalPERS Safety

Total deferred outflows of resources
Net pension liability:
CalPERS M iscellaneous
CalPERS Safety

Total net pension liability

Deferred inflows of resources:
Difference between expected and actual experience
CalPERS M iscellaneous

Total difference between expected and actual experience

Total deferred inflows of resources
CalPERS M iscellaneous

Total deterred inflows of resources

Pension expenses:
CalPERS Miscellaneous
CalPERS Safety

Total net pension expenses

106

Governmental

$

Activities

8,713,569
17,313,205

26,026,774

1,776,099
1,776,099

8,647,864
13,329,014

21,976,878

1,615,510
1,271,705

2,887,215

20,753,042
31,913,924

52,666,966

77,350,265
191,686,006

269,036,271

414,055
414,055

414,055
414,055

12,743,367
28,746,375

41,489,742

Business-Type

Activities Total
$ 2,078,566 §$ 10,792,135
- 17,313,205
2,078,566 28,105,340
423,677 2,199,776
423,677 2,199,776
2,062,891 10,710,755
- 13,329,014
2,062,891 24,039,769
385,369 2,000,879
- 1,271,705
385,369 3,272,584
4,950,503 25,703,545
- 31,913,924
$ 4,950,503 $ 57,617,469
$ 18,451,401 $ 95,801,666

- 191,686,006

$ 98,770 $
98,770
98,770

$ 98,770 §$

$ 3,039,847 $

$ 3,039,847 §$

126 of 240

$ 18,451,401 $ 287,487,672

512,825
512,825

512,825
512,825

15,783,214
28,746,375

44,529,589


--- page 127 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 11 — Pension Plans (Continued)
B. General Information about Pension

Plan Description

Substantially all City employees working the equivalent of 1,000 hours per fiscal year are eligible to participate in
the Miscellaneous or Safety Agent multiple-employer defined benefit plan administered by California Public
Employees Retirement System (CalPERS), which acts as a common investment and administrative agent for its
participating member employers. Benefit Provisions under the Plans are established by State statutes within the
Public Employee’s Retirement Law. CalPERS issues publicly available reports that include a full description of the
pension plans regarding benefit provisions, assumptions and membership information that can be found on the
CalPERS website. Copies of the CalPERS annual financial report may be obtained from the CalPERS Executive
Office — 400 P Street, Sacramento, CA 95814.

Employees Covered

At June 30, 2023, the measurement date, the following employees were covered by the benefit terms for the Plan:

Miscellaneous Plan Safety Plan Total
Active employees 358 106 464
Transferred and terminated employees 467 187 654
Retired employees and beneficiaries 663 405 1,068

Total 1,488 698 2,186
Benefits Provided

CalPERS provide retirement and disability benefits, annual cost-of-living adjustments, and death benefits to plan
members and beneficiaries. Classic CalPERS member becomes eligible for service retirement upon attainment of
age 55 with at least 5 years of credited service. PEPRA miscellaneous members become eligible for service
retirement upon attainment of age 62 with at least 5 years of service. The service retirement benefit is a monthly
allowance equal to the product of the benefit factor, years of service, and final compensation. The final
compensation is the monthly average of the member's highest 36 full-time equivalent monthly pay.

Following are the benefit provisions for each plan:

Hire Date Miscellaneous Plan Safety Plan

Benefit formula 2.0% @ 55 3% @ 50
Benefit vesting schedule 5 years service 5 years service
Benefit payments Monthly for life Monthly for life
Retirement age 55 50
Monthly benefits, as a % of eligible compensation 2.0% 3.000%
Required employee contribution rates for Classic members 8.00% 9.00%
Required employer contribution rates 9.770% 21.180%
Final Annual Compensation 1 year 1 year

On January 1, 2013, the Public Employee Pension Reform Act (PEPRA) went into effect. This State law applies to
employees hired on or after January 1, 2013 who are new to Public Employee Retirement Systems (PERS). These
employees are termed PEPRA members and employees that were enrolled in PERS (without significant separation)
prior to January 1, 2013 are now referred to as classic members. PEPRA miscellaneous members will be enrolled
in a 2% at 62 plan and PEPRA safety members will be enrolled in a 2.7% at 57 plan. PEPRA members will be
required to pay half the normal cost of their plans.

107
127 of 240


--- page 128 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 11 — Pension Plans (Continued)
B. General Information about Pension (Continued)
Contributions

Section 20814(C) of the California Public Employees’ Retirement Law (PERL) requires that the employer
contribution rates for all public employers be determined on an annual basis by the actuary and shall be effective
on the July 1 following notice of a change in the rate. Funding contributions for both Plans are determined annually
on an actuarial basis as of June 30 by CalPERS. The actuarially determined rate is the estimated amount necessary
to finance the costs of benefits earned by employees during the year (normal cost), with additional amount to finance
any unfunded accrued liability (UAL). The City is required. to contribute the difference between the actuarially
determined rate and the contribution rate of employees. For the measurement period ended June 30, 2023 (the
measurement date), the average active employee contribution rate is 7 percent of annual pay for the Miscellaneous
Plan and 10 percent of annual pay for the Safety Plan, and employer contribution rate is 26.80 percent of annual
payroll for the Miscellaneous Plan and 88.67 percent of annual payroll for the Safety Plan. Of note, the pension
liability for the service years of former City employees that transferred to the San Mateo Consolidated Fire
Department remains with the City, thus the UAL as a percentage of payroll is higher, as the UAL is relative to the
remaining Safety Plan members (Police Department employees). As of June 30, 2024, in the opinion of City
Administration, there were no additional outstanding matters that would have a significant effect on the financial
position of the City.

For the year ended June 30, 2024, the plan’s contributions made for the Plan was as follows:

Miscellaneous Plan Safety Plan

Contributions - employer $ 10,792,135 $ 17,313,205

Net Pension Liability

The City’s net pension liability is measured as the total pension liability, less the pension plan’s fiduciary net
position. The net pension liability of the Plan is measured as of June 30, 2023, using an annual actuarial valuation
as of June 30, 2022 rolled forward to June 30, 2023 using standard update procedures. A summary of principal
assumptions and methods used to determine the net pension liability is shown as follows.

Actuarial Assumptions

The total pension liabilities in the June 30, 2023 actuarial valuations were determined using the following actuarial

assumptions:
Actuarial Cost Method Entry Age Normal
Actuarial Assumptions:
Discount Rate 6.90%
Inflation 2.30%
Salary Increases Varies by Entry Age and Service
Mortality Rate Table” Derived using CalPERS’ Membership Data for all Funds.
Post Retirement Benefit Increase The lesser of contract COLA or 2.30% until Purchasing Power
Protection. Allowance floor on purchasing power applies, 2.30%
thereafter.

The mortality table used was developed based on CalPERS-specific data. The rates incorporate Generational Mortality to
capture ongoing mortality improvement using 80% of Scale MP 2020 published by the Society of Actuaries. For more details,
please refer to the 2021 experience study report that can be found on the CalPERS website.

108
128 of 240


--- page 129 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 11 — Pension Plans (Continued)

B. General Information about Pension (Continued)

Discount Rate

In determining the long-term expected rate of return, CalPERS took into account, both short-term and long-term
market return expectations as well as the expected pension fund cash flows. Such cash flows were developed
assuming that both members and employers will make their required contributions on time and as scheduled in all
future years. Using historical returns of all the funds’ asset classes, expected compound (geometric) returns were
calculated over the 20 years using a building-block approach. Using the expected nominal returns for both short-
term and long-term, the present value of benefits was calculated.for each fund. The expected rate of return was set
by calculating the single equivalent expected return that arrived at the same present value of benefits for cash flows
as the one calculated using both short-term and long-term returns. The expected rate of return was then set
equivalent to the single equivalent rate calculated above and rounded down to the nearest one quarter of one percent.

The table below reflects long-term expected real rate of return by asset class. The rate of return was calculated using
the capital market assumptions applied to determine the discount rate and asset allocation. These geometric rates of
return are net of administrative expenses.

Assumed Asset
Asset Class Allocation Real Return '”
Global equity - cap-weighted 30.00% 4.54%
Global equity - non-cap-weighted 12.00% 3.84%
Private equity 13.00% 7.28%
Treasury 5.00% 0.27%
Mortgage-backed securities 5.00% 0.50%
Investment grade corporates 10.00% 1.56%
High yield 5.00% 2.27%
Emerging market debt 5.00% 2.48%
Private debt 5.00% 3.57%
Real assets 15.00% 3.21%
Leverage -5.00% -0.59%
100.00%

"An expected inflation of 2.30% was used for this period.
Figures are based on the 2021 Asset Liability Management study.

The discount rate used to measure the total pension liability was 6.90% for the plan. To determine whether the
municipal bond rate should be used in the calculation of a discount rate for each plan, CalPERS stress tested plans
that would most likely result in a discount rate that would be different from the actuarially assumed discount rate.
Based on the testing, none of the tested plans run out of assets. Therefore, the current 6.90% discount rate is adequate
and the use of the municipal bond rate calculation is not necessary. The long term expected discount rate of 6.90%
is applied to all plans in the Public Employees Retirement Fund (PERF). The stress test results are presented in a
detailed report called “GASB Crossover Testing Report” that can be obtained from the CalPERS website under the
GASB 68 Section.

109
129 of 240


--- page 130 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 11 — Pension Plans (Continued)

B. General Information about Pension (Continued)

Sensitivity of the Net Pension Liability to Changes in the Discount Rate

The following presents the City’s net pension liability, calculated using the discount rate, as well as what the City’s
net pension liability would be if it were calculated using a discount rate that is one percentage point lower or one

percentage point higher than the current rate:

Plan's Aggregate Net Pension Liability/(Asset)
Discount Rate + 1%

Discount Rate - 1%

Current Discount

(5.90%) Rate (6.90%) (7.90%)
Miscellaneous Plan $ 137,435,462 $ 95,801,666 $ 61,286,709
Safety Plan $ 255,327,249 $ 191,686,006 $ 139,435,590

Changes in the Net Pension Liability

The following table shows the changes in net pension liability recognized over the measurement period:

Miscellaneous Plan

Total Pension Plan Fiduciary Net Net Pension
Liability Position Liability
Balance at June 30, 2022 (Valuation Date) $ 319,268,003 $ 227,767,747 §$ 91,500,256
Changes in the year:
Service cost 5,920,696 - 5,920,696
Interest on the total pension liabilities 21,858,537 - 21,858,537
Changes in benefit terms 425,881 - 425,881
Differences between expected and actual experience 3,251,428 - 3,251,428
Benefit payments, including refunds of members contributions (18,230,555) (18,230,555) -
Contributions - employer - 10,683,495 (10,683,495)
Contributions - employee - 2,571,915 (2,571,915)
Net investment income - 14,067,212 (14,067,212)
Administrative expenses - (167,490) 167,490
Net changes 13,225,987 8,924,577 4,301,410
Balance at June 30, 2023 (Measurement Date) $ 332,493,990 $ 236,692,324 §$ 95,801,666
Safety Plan
Total Pension Plan Fiduciary Net Net Pension
Liability Position Liability
Balance at June 30, 2022 (Valuation Date) $ 472,391,862 $ 285,135,370 $ 187,256,492
Changes in the year:
Service cost 5,234,236 - 5,234,236
Interest on the total pension liabilities 32,047,044 - 32,047,044
Changes in benefit terms 206,341 - 206,341
Differences between expected and actual experience 2,427,801 - 2,427,801
Benefit payments, including refunds of members contributions (26,386,401) (26,386,401) -
Contributions - employer - 16,292,527 (16,292,527)
Contributions - employee - 1,761,725 (1,761,725)
Net investment income - 17,641,331 (17,641,331)
Administrative expenses - (209,675) 209,675
Net changes 13,529,021 9,099,507 4,429,514
Balance at June 30, 2023 (Measurement Date) $ 485,920,883 $ 294,234,877 $ 191,686,006

110

130 of 240


--- page 131 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 11 — Pension Plans (Continued)

B. General Information about Pension (Continued)

Pension Expenses and Deferred Outflows/Inflows of Resources Related to Pensions

For the year ended June 30, 2024, the City recognized pension expense in the amount of $15,783,214 and
$28,746,375 for the miscellaneous and safety plans, respectively.

The amortization period differs depending on the source of the gain or loss. The difference between projected and
actual earnings is amortized over 5-years straight line. All other amounts are amortized straight-line over the
average expected remaining service lives of all members that are provided with benefits (active, inactive and retired)
as of the beginning of the measurement period.

The Expected Average Remaining Service Lifetime (“EARSL”) is calculated by dividing the total future service
years by the total number of plan participants (active, inactive, and retired) in the risk pool. For the Miscellaneous
Plan, the EARSL for the Miscellaneous Plan for the 2022-23 measurement period is 2.6 years, which was obtained
by dividing the total service years of 3,826 (the sum of remaining service lifetimes of the active employees) by
1,454 (the total number of participants: active, inactive, and retired). For the Safety Plan, the EARSL for the 2021-
22 measurement period is 2.1 years, which was obtained by dividing the total service years of 1,459 (the sum of
remaining service lifetimes of the active employees) by 696 (the total number of participants: active, inactive, and
retired).

At June 30, 2024, the City reported deferred outflows of resources and deferred inflows of resources related to
pensions from the following sources:

Miscellaneous Plan

Deferred outflows Deferred inflows
of Resources of Resources

Pension contributions made subsequent
to measurement date $ 10,792,135 $ -

Difference between projected and actual

earning on pension plan investments 10,710,755 -
Changes in assumptions 2,199,776 -
Differences between expected and actual experience 2,000,879 (512,825)
Total $ 25,703,545 §$ (512,825)
Safety Plan
Deferred outflows Deferred inflows
of Resources of Resources

Pension contributions made subsequent
to measurement date $ 17,313,205 $ -
Difference between projected and actual

earning on pension plan investments 13,329,014 -
Differences between expected and actual experience 1,271,705 -

Total $ 31,913,924 $ -

111
131 of 240


--- page 132 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 11 — Pension Plans (Continued)

B. General Information about Pension (Continued)

Pension Expenses and Deferred Outflows/Inflows of Resources Related to Pensions (Continued)

Total

Deferred outflows Deferred inflows
of Resources of Resources

Pension contributions made subsequent
to measurement date $ 28,105,340 $ -

Difference between projected and actual

earning on pension plan investments 24,039,769 -
Changes in assumptions 2,199,776 -
Differences between expected and actual experience 3,272,584 (512,825)
Total $ 57,617,469 § (512,825)

For the General Information about Pension, for the Miscellaneous and Safety Plans, $10,792,135 and $17,313,205,
respectively, was reported as deferred outflows of resources related to pensions resulting from City’s contributions
subsequent to the measurement date and will be recognized as a reduction of the net pension liability in the year
ended June 30, 2025. Other amounts reported as deferred outflows of resources and deferred inflows of resources
related to pensions will be recognized in pension expense as follows:

Deferred Outflows/(Inflows)

Measurement Period of Resources
Ended June 30, Miscellaneous Plan Safety Plan Total

2024 $ 4,812,869 $ 3,443,976 $ 8,256,845

2025 1,793,904 1,321,451 3,115,355

2026 7,498,985 9,489,206 16,988,191

2027 292,827 346,086 638,913

2028 - - -
Thereafter - - -

$ 14,398,585 $ 14,600,719 $ 28,999,304

Pension Plan Fiduciary Net Position

Detailed information about the plan’s fiduciary net position is available in the separately issued CalPERS financial
reports.

C. Social Security

Total contributions to Social Security for all City employees during the year ended June 30, 2024 amounted to
$5,070,433 of which the City paid $2,535,217.

The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 (OBRA) mandates that public sector employees who are not
members of their employer’s existing retirement system as of January 1, 1992 be covered by either Social Security
or an alternative plan. The City’s part-time, seasonal and temporary employees are covered under an alternative
savings plan, which requires these employees and the City to each contribute 3.75% of the employees’ pay for a
total of 7.50%.

112
132 of 240


--- page 133 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 12 — Other Postemployment Benefits

A. Summary

Deferred outflows of resources:

OPEB contribution made after measurement date

Net difference between projected and actual
earnings of OPEB Plan investments
Difference between expected and actual experience
Total deferred outflows of resources
Net OPEB Liability
Deferred inflows of resources:
Difference between expected and actual experience
Change in assumptions

Total deferred inflows of resources

OPEB Expense

B. General Information about OPEB

Plan Description

The City administers a single-employer defined benefit post-employment healthcare plan. Merit employees who
retire directly from the City under CalPERS at the minimum age 50 with at least 5 years of CalPERS service (or
disability) are eligible to receive $160 per month for medical insurance premiums paid to CalPERS. This same
benefit may continue to a surviving spouse depending on the retirement plan election. As of June 30, 2023, there

Governmental
Activities

$ 1,077,056
431,868
3,034,923

$ 4,543,847
$ 9,481,590
$ 650,281
1,132,773

$ 1,783,054

$ 639,542

Business-Type

$

Activities

159,944

64,133
450,690
674,767

1,408,025

96,568
168,220
264,788

94,973

were 363 retirees receiving post-employment health care benefits from the City.

Employees Covered

As of the June 30, 2023 actuarial valuation, the following current and former employees were covered by the benefit

terms:
Active employees
Inactive employees or beneficiaries currently receiving benefits
Inactive employees entitled to, but not yet receiving benefits
Total
Contribution

Beginning in the fiscal year 2012-13, the City pre-funds the Plan through California Employers’ Retiree Benefit
Trust (CERBT) by contributing the City’s Actuarially Determined Contribution (ADC) every year. For the reporting

period 2023-24, the City contributed $880,0000.

463
363
234

1,060

Total

1,237,000

496,001
3,485,613
5,218,614

10,889,615

746,849
1,300,993
2,047,842

734,515

133 of 240


--- page 134 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 12 — Other Postemployment Benefits (Continued)

B. General Information about OPEB (Continued)

Contribution (Continued)

CERBT is a tax qualified irrevocable trust, organized under Internal Revenue Code (IRC) Section 115, established
to prefund retirement health benefits. The CERBT issues a publicly available financial report that included financial
statements and required supplementary information for the City, not individualizing, but in aggregate with the other
CERBT participants. That report may be obtained by contacting CalPERS.

C. Net OPEB Liability, OPEB Expense and Deferred Outflows/Inflows of Resources Related to OPEB

The City’s net OPEB liability was measured as of June 30, 2023, and the total OPEB liability used to calculate the
net OPEB liability was determined by an actuarial valuation as of June 30, 2023.

Actuarial Assumptions

The total OPEB liability, measured as of June 30, 2023, was determined using the following actuarial assumptions:

Actuarial Valuation Date June 30, 2023
Actuarial Cost Method Entry-Age Normal Cost, Level % of pay
Asset Valuation M ethod Market Value
Inflation 2.50%
Payroll Growth 2.50%
Salary Increases Aggregate - 3.00% annually
Merit - CalPERS 2021 Experience Study
Contribution Policy Contributes full ADC
Discount Rate 6.10%
Mortality, Retirement, Disability, Termination CalPERS 2021 Experience Study
Mortality Improvement MacLeod Watts Scale 2022
Medical Trend 6.50% for 2025 decreasing to 3.90% in 2075

The actuarial assumptions used in the June 30, 2023 valuation were based on the results of an actuarial experience
study for the period June 30, 2022 through June 30, 2023.

The long-term expected rate of return on OPEB plan investments was determined using a building-block method
in which best-estimate ranges of expected future real rates of return (expected returns, net of OPEB plan investment
expense and inflation) are developed for each major asset class. These ranges are combined to produce the long-
term expected rate of return by weighting the expected future real rates of return by the target asset allocation
percentage and by adding expected inflation. The target allocation and best estimates of arithmetic real rates of
return for each major asset class are summarized in the following table:

Target Long-Term Expected

Asset Class Allocation Rate of Return

Global Equity 49.00% 4.50%
Fixed Income 23.00% 2.20%
TIPS 5.00% 1.30%
Commodities 3.00% 1.20%
REITs 20.00% 3.90%

~—— 100.00%

Long-term assumed rate of inflation 2.500%
Long-term expected rate of return 6.100%

114
134 of 240


--- page 135 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 12 — Other Postemployment Benefits (Continued)

C. Net OPEB Liability, OPEB Expense and Deferred Outflows/Inflows of Resources Related to OPEB (Continued)

Change in Assumptions

The City’s discount rate used to measure the total OPEB liability decreased from 6.25 percent to 6.10 percent for
the measurement period ended June 30, 2023.

Discount Rate

The discount rate used to measure the total OPEB liability was 6.10 percent. The projection of cash flows used to
determine the discount rate assumed that City contributions will be made at rates equal to the actuarially determined
contribution rates. Based on those assumptions, the City plan's fiduciary net position was projected to be available
to make all projected OPEB payments for current active and inactive employees. Therefore, the long-term expected
rate of return on OPEB plan investments was applied to all periods of projected benefit payments to determine the
total OPEB liability.

Change in Net OPEB Liability

Total Plan Net
OPEB Fiduciary OPEB
Liability Net Position Liability
Balance at June 30, 2022 $ 17,257,574 §$ 8,830,251 §$ 8,427,323
Changes Recognized for the Measurement Period:
Service Cost 563,606 - 563,606
Interest on the total OPEB liability 1,079,059 - 1,079,059
Difference between expected and actual experience 4,098,199 - 4,098,199
Changes in assumptions (1,405,066) - (1,405,066)
Contribution from the employ er - 1,193,000 (1,193,000)
Net investment income - 683,260 (683,260)
Administrative expenses - (2,754) 2,754
Benefit payments (1,112,477) (1,112,477) -
Net changes during July 1, 2022 to June 30, 2023 3,223,321 761,029 2,462,292
Balance at June 30, 2023 20,480,895 $ 9,591,280 § 10,889,615

OPEB Expense and Deferred Outflows/Inflows of Resources Related to OPEB

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, the City recognized OPEB expense of $734,515. At June 30, 2024, the
City reported deferred outflows of resources and deferred inflows of resources related to OPEB from the following

sources:

Contributions made after measurement date

Differences between expected and actual experience

Changes in assumptions

Net difference between projected and actual

earnings of OPEB Plan investments

115

Deferred
Outflows of
Resources

$ 1,237,000

3,485,613

496,001

$ 5,218,614

Deferred
Inflows of
Resources

$ -

(746,849)
(1,300,993)

$ (2,047,842)

135 of 240


--- page 136 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 12 — Other Postemployment Benefits (Continued)
C. Net OPEB Liability, OPEB Expense and Deferred Outflows/Inflows of Resources Related to OPEB (Continued)

OPEB Expense and Deferred Outflows/Inflows of Resources Related to OPEB (Continued)

The difference between projected OPEB plan investment earnings and actual earnings is amortized over a five-year
period. The remaining gains and losses are amortized over the expected average remaining service life. The
expected average remaining service life is 6.69 years, which was determined as of June 30, 2023, the beginning of
the measurement period, for employees covered by the OPEB plan benefit terms as of the valuation date.

For the OPEB Plan, $1,237,000 was reported as deferred outflows of resources related to OPEB resulting from
City’s contributions subsequent to the measurement date will be recognized as a reduction of the net OPEB liability
in the year ended June 30, 2025. Other amounts reported as deferred outflows of resources related to OPEB will be
recognized as future OPEB expense as follows:

Year Ending

June 30 Amount
2025 $ (118,184)
2026 323,116
2027 671,738
2028 376,774
2029 402,561

Thereafter 277,767
Total $ 1,933,772

Sensitivity of the Net OPEB Liability to Changes in the Discount Rate

The following presents the net OPEB liability of the City, as well as what the net OPEB liability would be if it were
calculated using a discount rate that is one percentage point lower or one percentage point higher than the current
rate, for the measurement period ended June 30, 2023:

Plan's Net OPEB Liability
Discount Rate -1% Current Discount Rate Discount Rate +1%
(5.10%) (6.10%) (7.10%)
$ 13,358,199 §$ 10,889,615 §$ 8,827,887

Sensitivity of the Net OPEB Liability to Changes in Healthcare Cost Trend Rates

The following presents the net OPEB liability of the City, as well as what the net OPEB liability would be if it were
calculated using a health care cost trend rates that are one percentage point lower or one percentage point higher
than the current rates, for the measurement period ended June 30, 2023:

Plan's Net OPEB Liability
Current Healthcare

1% Decrease Trend Rate 1% Increase
(5.50% - 2.90%) (6.50% - 3.90%) (7.50% to 4.90%)
$ 8,651,662 §$ 10,889,615 §$ 13,633,097
116

136 of 240


--- page 137 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 13 — Risk Management
A. Coverage

The City retains a level of risk for both general liability and workers’ compensation. The City carries commercial
insurance above this limit. The City maintains occurrence basis insurance coverage up to $25 million in excess of
its $1,000,000 risk retention per occurrence plus $1,000,000 individual member corridor deductible for general
liability, and $25 million in excess of its $1,000,000 risk retention for workers’ compensation. The City has not had
claims settlements exceeding insurance coverage for each of the past three fiscal years.

B. Claims Activity

The City’s claims activity is recorded in its internal service funds. Estimated liabilities are recorded when it is
probable that a loss has occurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Claims that have been
incurred but not reported (IBNRs) are also included in the liability estimates.

A summary of the changes in claims liabilities for the past three fiscal years follows:

Current Year

Beginning of Claims and Balance at Due in
Fiscal Year Changes in Claim Fiscal Year Due Within More than
Liability Estimates Payments End One Year One Year
Workers' Compensation
2024 $ 12,100,000 $ 3,001,198 $ (1,243,198) $ 13,858,000 $ 2,743,000 $ 11,115,000
2023 12,197,000 1,209,675 (1,306,675) 12,100,000 2,396,000 9,704,000
2022 15,936,000 (2,514,129) (1,224,871) 12,197,000 2,800,000 9,397,000
Dental
2024 $ - $ 775,609 §$ (775,609) §$ - §$ - §$ -
2023 - 786,503 (786,503) - - -
2022 - 473,383 (473,383) - - -
General Liability
2024 $ 14,610,000 $ (9,452,000) $ (1,118,000) $ 4,040,000 $ 1,301,000 $ 2,739,000
2023 1,872,000 12,879,689 (141,689) 14,610,000 7,074,000 7,536,000
2022 1,116,000 1,663,353 (907,353) 1,872,000 500,000 1,372,000
Total
2024 $ 26,710,000 $ (5,675,193) $ (3,136,807) $ 17,898,000 $ 4,044,000 $ 13,854,000
2023 14,069,000 14,875,867 (2,234,867) 26,710,000 9,470,000 17,240,000
2022 17,052,000 (377,393) (2,605,607) 14,069,000 3,300,000 10,769,000

Note 14 — Joint Ventures

City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal Improvement District

The City and the Estero Municipal Improvement District (Estero), entered into a “Joint Exercise of Powers Agreement”
in 1974 to construct, maintain, and operate a joint use wastewater treatment plant facility (Facility). The City and Estero
jointly use and own the Facility. During the original construction phase, the City served as the lead agency. Currently,
the day-to-day operations and maintenance of the treatment plant are managed by the City. Both parties continue to
make capital contributions and pay for operational and maintenance costs. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024,
the City paid $27,405,432 for operations and maintenance of the wastewater treatment plant facility.

117
137 of 240


--- page 138 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 14 — Joint Ventures (Continued)

City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal Improvement District (Continued)

In June of 2019, the City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District/City of Foster City jointly issued
the 2019 Series Wastewater Revenue Bonds in the amount of $270,000,000 (2019 Wastewater Bonds) through a joint
powers financing authority, San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority (Authority). Of the total issuance
amount, the City is responsible for $236,180,000. Interest payments are payable semi-annually on February 1 and
August 1, commencing February 1, 2020. The bonds mature through August 1, 2049, and bear interest at the rate of 4-
5%. The issuance resulted in a bond premium of $53,780,407, of which the City’s share was $47,201,120.

In July of 2021, the City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District/City of Foster City jointly issued
the 2021 Series A and B Wastewater Revenue Notes and 2021 Series A Wastewater Revenue Refunding Bonds in the
amount of $348,590,000 through a joint powers financing authority, San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority
(Authority). Of the total issuance amount, the City is responsible for $285,830,000. Interest payments are payable semi-
annually on February 1 and August 1, commencing August 1, 2022. The bonds mature through August 1, 2041, and
bear interest at the rate of 4.15-5.25%. The issuance resulted in a bond premium of $65,920,038, of which the City’s
share was $54,211,533.

In February of 2024, the Authority receive the WIFIA loan proceeds and used part of the loan proceeds to defease the
2021 Wastewater Revenue Notes, Series A and B.

Interest payments and revenue bond retirements are serviced by the revenues generated by the City of San Mateo Sewer
Enterprise Fund and the Foster City/Estero Municipal Improvement District Wastewater Enterprise Fund pursuant to a
reimbursement agreement. The City’s total principal and interest remaining to be paid on the bonds is $802,082,162.

City of San Mateo, City of Belmont/Belmont Fire Protection District, and City of Foster City/Estero Municipal
Improvement District

On November 22, 2017, the City of San Mateo, the City of Belmont/Belmont Fire Protection District, and the City of
Foster City/Estero Municipal Improvement District formed a Joint Powers Authority (JPA) named the San Mateo
Consolidated Fire Department (SMC Fire) to provide integrated and comprehensive fire protection, fire prevention, and
emergency response services to all three communities serving a population of over 164,000. Effective January 13, 2019,
San Mateo’s financial contributions to SMC Fire is accounted for annually as an investment in equity interest in its
government-wide financial statements.

SMC Fire is governed under the terms of the JPA Agreement by a Board of Directors consisting of one voting
representative and one alternate who are elected members from the governing boards of the three JPA Member
Agencies. Each member agency has the following weighted vote: City of San Mateo (60%), City of Belmont (20%),
and City of Foster City (20%), with a minimum weighted vote of 80% needed for any action to be taken.

As of June 30, 2024, the City has an investment in JPA equity of $12,740,381. Every year the City adjusts the investment
based on the City’s proportion of financial activity at SMC Fire (60%). Audited financial statements of SMC Fire are
available from City of San Mateo, 330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403.

118
138 of 240


--- page 139 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 14 — Joint Ventures (Continued)

City of San Mateo, City of Belmont/Belmont Fire Protection District, and City of Foster City/Estero Municipal
Improvement District (Continued)

The condensed audited financial information of the JPA as of June 30, 2024 is as follows (in millions):

Total assets and deferred outflows $ 37,563,975
Total liabilities and deferred inflows “$16,330,007
Total equities “$21,233,968
Expenses $52,585,800
Program revenues “$51,870,229
General revenues $ 1,141,902
Change in net position $ 426,331

Note 15 — Other Required Disclosures

A

B.

Deficit Fund Balances/Net Position

The City’s governmental activities had an unrestricted net position (deficit) of $(53,862,081) as of June 30, 2024.
This is mainly due to reporting of net pension liability of $(269,036,271) as required under GASB Statement No.
68 (Note 11) and reporting of Total OPEB liability of $(9,481,590) as required under GASB Statement No. 75
(Note 12).

At June 30, 2024, the following funds had a fund balances (deficit) or unrestricted net position (deficit), which will
be eliminated through the reduction in future expenditures and/or the use of new funding sources:

Fund Fund Type Deficit
Comprehensive Liability Insurance Fund Internal Service Fund $ 2,423,427
Successor Agency to RDA Merged Area Fund Fiduciary Fund 37,971,375

The Internal Service Funds deficit is expected to be eliminated by future charges for services. The Successor Agency
to the Redevelopment Agency Private-Purpose Trust Funds deficit which will be eliminated by future revenues.

Expenditures Exceeding Appropriations

For the year ended June 30, 2024, expenditures exceeded appropriations in the following funds by function:

Excess Expenditures
Fund Function over Appropriations

General Fund General government: City attorney $ 53,883
General Fund Public safety: Police 639,660
General Fund Capital outlay 289,513
Advance Planning Fund Community development 199,528
Construction Services Fund General government 44,534
Construction Services Fund Public works 33,332
Construction Services Fund Capital outlay 25,855
General Obligation Bonds Debt Service Fund Non-departmental 1,374
2% Hotel Tax Capital Projects Fund Non-departmental 6,044

119
139 of 240


--- page 140 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 16 — Fund Balance Classification

The City classifies fund balances, as shown on the Balance Sheet — Governmental Funds, as follows as of June 30, 2024:

General Non-major
General Capital Projects | Governmental
Fund Fund Funds Total
Nonspendable
Prepaid items and inventories $ 304,759 § - § - § 304,759
Total nonspendable 304,759 - - 304,759
Restricted
Advance planning - - 5,841,009 5,841,009
Construction services - - 26,933,917 26,933,917
Debt service 550,000 - 7,591,815 8,141,815
Housing - 907,476 10,622,472 11,529,948
Infrastructure maintenance - 9,619,719 - 9,619,719
Landfill p ost-closure maintenance - - 4,490,002 4,490,002
Cap ital projects - 4,750,829 178,905 4,929,734
Public safety - 1,132,343 531,193 1,663,536
Public streets and related facilities - - 28,759,814 28,759,814
Solid waste and landfill - 15,801,041 14,423,067 30,224,108
Total restricted 550,000 32,211,408 99,372,194 132,133,602
Assigned
Cap ital projects 10,028,554 26,595,669 - 36,624,223
Other purposes 1,414,672 - - 1,414,672
Total assigned 11,443,226 26,595,669 - 38,038,895
Unassigned 105,659,356 - - 105,659,356
Total fund balances $ 117,957,341 $ 58,807,077 $ 99,372,194 §$ 276,136,612

120
140 of 240


--- page 141 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 17 — Net Investment in Capital Assets

Net Investment in Capital Assets at June 30, 2024, consisted of the following:

Governmental Business-Type
___Activities —_ Activities
Net investment in capital assets:
Capital assets, nondepreciable $ 82,476,143 $ 613,717,839
Capital assets, depreciable/amortizable, net 400,058,126 170,526,248
Unspent bond proceeds - Restricted cash and investments 21,216,358 51,978,422
Deferred loss/(gain) on refunding 699,287 (16,156,892)
Capital-related liabilities:
Retention payable (5,029,210) -
General Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2013 (13,985,750) -
Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2007A (12,625,000) -
Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2018A (3,919,355) -
Advance payable (48,256,907) -
CEC Streetlight Loan (1,524,968) -
PG&E - Energy Efficiency Retrofit Loans (2,163,827) -
Lease liability (442,060) (37,968)
Subscription liability (3,650,644) -
Sewer Revenue Bonds, Series 2014 - (27,193,750)
Wastewater Revenue Bonds, Series 2019 - (275,156,242)
Wastewater Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2021A - (16,216,203)
Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) Loan - (295,479,360)
Total net investment in capital assets $ 412,852,193 $ 205,982,094

Note 18 — Successor Agency Private Purpose Trust For Assets of Former Redevelopment

On December 29, 2011, the California Supreme Court upheld Assembly Bill 1X 26 (“the Bill”) that provides for the
dissolution of all redevelopment agencies in the State of California. This action impacted the reporting entity of the City
of San Mateo that previously had reported the City’s Redevelopment Agency within the reporting entity as a blended
component unit. The Bill provided that upon dissolution of a redevelopment agency, either the City or another unit of
local government agree to serve as the “successor agency” to hold the assets until they are distributed to other units of
state and local government. On January 9, 2012, the City Council elected to become the Successor Agency for the
former Redevelopment agency in accordance with the Bill as part of City Resolution No. 2 (2012).

After enactment of the law, which occurred on June 28, 2011, redevelopment agencies in the State of California were
prohibited from entering into new projects, obligations, or commitments. Subject to the control of a newly established
oversight board, remaining assets could only be used to pay enforceable obligations in existence at the date of
dissolution (including the completion of any unfinished projects that were subject to legally enforceable contractual
commitments). In accordance with the Bill, the State Controller’s Office (SCO) of the State of California reviewed the
propriety of any transfers of assets between the San Mateo Redevelopment Agency (RDA) and the City that occurred
after January 1, 2011.

121
141 of 240


--- page 142 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 18 — Successor Agency Private Purpose Trust For Assets of Former Redevelopment (Continued)

On October 23, 2013, the SCO issued a report stating that there were no identified unallowable transfers of assets that
occurred during the review period between the RDA, the City, and/or any other public agencies. In April 2013, the
California Department of Finance (DOF) issued a Finding of Completion to the Successor Agency which allowed
proceeds ($3.3 million) from the Merged Area Tax Allocation Bonds, Series 2005A and Series 2007A, to be used to
reimburse the City of San Mateo for construction costs of Fire Station 24 in accordance with the Cooperation Agreement
between the City and the Successor Agency. Construction of Fire Station 24 was a use of the bond proceeds that is
consistent with the stated purposes of the original bond covenants, and these bonds proceeds were utilized in this manner
during fiscal year 2013-14. Once a Finding of Completion is issued by the DOF, State law (AB 1484) requires that
successor agencies prepare a Long- Range Property Management Plan (LRPMP) for the disposition and use of the
remaining assets of the former San Mateo Redevelopment Agency The Successor Agency submitted the required
LRPMP, as amended and approved by the Oversight Board, to the DOF on October 17, 2013. The LRPMP addressed
the disposition of five properties that were under title with the Successor Agency. The Successor Agency received a
formal response from the DOF on April 28, 2014, rejecting the LRPMP as submitted. The letter outlined that public
parking was not considered a governmental use by the State and as a result, the City needed to examine other available
disposition options for several other remaining properties. As required, the Successor Agency submitted to the DOF on
October 1, 2014, a revised LRPMP that was approved by the Oversight Board. In February 2015, the revised LRPMP
was approved by the DOF after the Oversight Board approval. The actual land titles transferred to the City from the
Successor Agency for the former San Mateo Redevelopment Agency in July 2015. The outstanding enforceable
obligations currently only include amounts owed to holders of the Successor Agency of Redevelopment Agency Tax
Allocation Refunding Bonds Series 2015A, Successor Agency of Redevelopment Agency Tax Allocation Refunding
Bonds Series 2015B, and the Successor Agency of Redevelopment Agency Tax Allocation Refunding Bonds, Series
2017A.

Late in the 2016-17 fiscal year, the Successor Agency began the due diligence process to refund the 2007 Tax Allocation
Bonds, which were eligible to be refunded as of August 1, 2017. The Agency approved the refunding and an amendment
to the Last and Final ROPS on June 5, 2017, and the Oversight Board made the same approvals on June 7, 2017. The
resolutions of approval were submitted to the Department of Finance in June 2018, with approval for the Oversight
Board Resolutions coming on August 21, 2017. The Department of Finance approved the amendment to the Last and
Final ROPS, and its confirmation that this entire transaction would be considered the first of two allowed amendments
to the Last and Final ROPS in a letter dated December 13, 2017.

Note 19 — Changes to or within the Financial Reporting Entity

The Construction Services Special Revenue Fund was previously reported as a major fund, but due to a decrease in
activity in the Construction Services Fund, the fund no longer meets the quantitative threshold requiring the fund to be
reported as a major fund for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024. The changes to or within the financial reporting entity
resulted in adjustments to and restatements of beginning fund balance, as follows:

June 30, 2023 Change to or with the June 30, 2023
As Previously Reported Financial Reporting Entity As Restated
Governmental Funds
Major Funds:
General Fund $ 117,879,219 $ - § 117,879,219
General Capital Projects Fund 54,186,446 - 54,186,446
Construction Services Special Revenue Fund 32,627,760 (32,627,760) -
Nonmajor Funds 58,744,866 32,627,760 91,372,626
Total Governmental Funds $ 263,438,291 §$ - § 263,438,291
122

142 of 240


--- page 143 ---
City of San Mateo
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Note 20 — Commitments and Contingencies
A. Litigation

The City is currently a party to various claims and legal proceedings. Although the outcome of these lawsuits is not
presently determinable, it is management’s opinion that the ultimate liabilities, if any, resulting from such claims
and proceedings will not materially affect the financial position of the City.

B. Contingent Liabilities

On March 1, 1993, the City issued Certificates of Participation in the aggregate of $10,250,000 for the benefit of
San Mateo Community Hospital (Hospital), a California nonprofit public benefit corporation. The Hospital is not
included in the City’s reporting entity. The City is obligated to make the purchase payments only from and to the
extent that it receives revenue from the Hospital. They are not secured by any pledge of taxes or other revenues of
the City. In addition, the purchase payments are insured by the Office of Statewide Health Planning and
Development of the State of California. As of June 30, 2024, the City has not recorded revenues from the Hospital.

C. Federal and State Grants

The City participates in various federal and state grant programs, the principal of which are subject to program
compliance audits pursuant to the Single Audit act as amended, and various other state grant compliance
requirements. Accordingly, the City’s compliance with applicable grant requirements will be established at a future
date. The amount of expenditures which may be disallowed by the granting agencies cannot be determined at this
time, although the City anticipates such amounts, if any, will be immaterial.

D. Contractual Commitments
The City has capital contractual commitments for which funds have been encumbered as of June 30, 2024.
Encumbrances related to capital projects are funded through the current year appropriated budget, which carries

over to the following year.

The following is a list of the commitments at June 30, 2024:

Remaining
Commitment
Clean Water Program $ 20,431,049
Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation and Improvement Project 65,856,143
Streetscape Improvements 7,899,698
Miscellaneous Projects 6,511,373
Total $ 100,698,263

123
143 of 240


--- page 144 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

124
144 of 240


--- page 145 ---
REQUIRED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION

125
145 of 240


--- page 146 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

126
146 of 240


--- page 147 ---
City of San Mateo
Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited)
Budgetary Information
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Budgetary Control and Budgetary Accounting

Budgets are legally adopted and formal budgetary integration is employed as a management control device during the
year for all governmental fund types. The budget is prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. From the effective date of the budget, the amounts stated therein as proposed
expenditures become appropriations to the various City departments.

The City has two-year business plan development procedures. The two-year business plan process requires that each
department submit two one-year expenditure plans and revenue estimates to be provided to the City Council for
approval. Only the first year of the two-year business plan will be adopted. The second year represents a projected plan
which will be subject to amendment in the following year. As a part of the two-year business plan, the focus in year
one is on the operating budget, while the focus on year two is the City’s CIP.

In any budget cycle, to remain adaptable to changing economic and or operational conditions, the City may choose to
develop a one-year plan instead of a two-year business plan. As a result of the immediate and severe financial impact
of COVID-19, the City shifted to a one-year plan. With nearly two years of pandemic-related recession experience
under its belt, the City plans on shifting back to the two-year business plan for 2022-24.

The City controls its budget at the fund and department level. The City Council is the sole budget authority. Activities
of the General Fund, Special Revenues Funds, Debt Service Funds, Proprietary Funds, and Capital Funds are included
in the annual budget.

127
147 of 240


--- page 148 ---
City of San Mateo
Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited) (Continued)
Budgetary Comparison Schedules — General Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Variance with

Final Budget
Budgeted Amounts Actual Favorable/
“Original ———s—=<“‘i=‘~s*é~SrASC(“‘(‘CNSC*# Amounts (Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Property taxes $ 78,022,243 $ 78,022,243 $ 78,606,527 $ 584,284
Sales taxes 31,216,400 31,216,400 27,772,986 (3,443,414)
Other taxes 23,546,274 23,546,274 25,883,776 2,337,502
Licenses, building and other permits 70,000 70,000 97,101 27,101
Fines, forfeitures and penalties 1,481,000 1,481,000 3,024,160 1,543,160
Intergovernmental 2,806,774 2,875,359 3,066,664 191,305
Charges for Services 12,848,736 12,848,736 15,607,445 2,758,709
Investment income 1,800,000 1,800,000 8,470,713 6,670,713
Parking Meter and Lease Revenue 2,040,000 2,040,000 3,199,677 1,159,677
Other revenues 3,046,563 3,157,403 4,284,746 1,127,343
Total revenues 156,877,990 157,057,415 170,013,795 12,956,380
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
General government:
City Council 356,898 356,898 319,813 37,085
City M anager 2,617,253 2,698,053 2,305,807 392,246
City Clerk 862,087 862,087 785,263 76,824
City Attorney 1,212,087 1,212,087 1,265,970 (53,883)
Finance 4,176,442 4,260,929 4,220,237 40,692
Information technology 4,679,239 4,050,582 3,979,491 71,091
Human Resources 2,284,816 2,284,816 2,169,288 115,528
Community development 1,946,275 1,881,025 1,729,511 151,514
Public safety:
Police 57,981,162 58,416,581 59,056,241 (639,660)
Fire 27,509,727 27,509,727 27,509,727 -
Public works 12,156,247 12,740,919 10,831,430 1,909,489
Parks and recreation 21,666,029 21,666,029 21,136,909 529,120
Library 8,925,860 8,925,860 8,619,895 305,965
Non-departmental 9,840,263 9,840,263 9,678,356 161,907
Capital outlay 20,865 1,097,096 1,386,609 (289,513)
Debt service:
Principal 1,116,583 2,353,227 2,353,226 1
Interest and fiscal charges 162,988 249,630 249,630 -
Total expenditures 157,514,821 160,405,809 157,597,403 2,808,406
REVENUES OVER
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES (636,831) (3,348,394) 12,416,392 15,764,786

128
148 of 240


--- page 149 ---
City of San Mateo

Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited) (Continued)
Budgetary Comparison Schedules — General Fund (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):

Proceeds from sale of property

Inception of subscription liability

Transfers in

Transfers out

Total other financing sources (uses)

NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE $

FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of y ear

End of year

Budgeted Amounts
Original Final
- 1,076,231
7,247,433 7,247,433

(19,201,887)
(11,954,454)

(12,591,285)

129

$

(22,301,887)
(13,978,223)

(17,326,617)

Final Budget
Actual Favorable/

Amounts (Unfavorable)
21,354 21,354
1,076,231 -
7,247,433 -
(20,683,288) 1,618,599
(12,338,270) 1,639,953

78,122 $ 17,404,739

117,879,219

117,957,341

149 of 240


--- page 150 ---
City of San Mateo
Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited) (Continued)
Schedule of Changes in the Net Pension Liability and Related Ratios
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Miscellaneous Plan

Total Pension Liability 2022-23 2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14
Service cost $ 5,920,696 $ 5,860,301 $ 5,417,134 $ 5,314,317 $ 5,232,210 $ 5,037,653 $ 4,518,151 $ 3,993,514 $ 3,892,876 $ 3,828,331
Interest on total pension liability 21,858,537 20,961,702 20,553,253 19,910,417 19,039,419 18,044,112 17,389,674 17,090,620 16,438,129 15,777,588
Differences between expected and actual

experience 3,251,428 (1,978,041) (812,628) 2,219,628 4,029,100 1,103,888 (3,106,399) (331,929) (627,100) -
Changes in assumptions - 8,484,848 - - - (1,424,920) 13,781,463 - (3,817,336) -
Changes in benefit terms 425,881 - - - - - - - - -
Benefit payments, including refunds of

employee contributions (18,230,555) (16,833,252) —- (15,894,895) (15,050,756) (13,650,253) —- (12,925,302) — (12,461,817) —- (11,970,354) (11,069,836) —_ (10,298,370)
Net change in total pension liability 13,225,987 16,495,558 9,262,864 12,393,606 14,650,476 9,835,431 20,121,072 8,781,851 4,816,733 9,307,549
Total pension liability - beginning 319,268,003 302,772,445 293,509,581 281,115,975 266,465,499 256,630,068 236,508,996 227,727,145 222,910,412 213,602,863
Total pension liability - ending (a) $332,493,990 $319,268,003 $302,772,445 $ 293,509,581 $281,115,975  $266,465,499 $256,630,068 $236,508,996 $227,727,145 $222,910,412

Plan fiduciary net position

Contributions - employer 10,683,495 9,953,731 8,968,085 8,308,013 7,343,013 6,287,676 5,873,612 5,126,750 4,501,438 3,783,964
Contributions - employee 2,571,915 2,557,263 2,454,476 2,412,286 2,463,688 2,208,675 2,041,614 1,928,776 1,950,191 1,924,145
Investment income (net of

administrative expenses) 14,067,212 (18,866,744) 47,026,715 10,192,254 12,797,943 15,561,240 18,815,053 868,395 3,955,299 26,395,339
Benefit payments (18,230,555) (16,833,252) (15,894,895) (15,050,756) (13,650,253) (12,925,302) (12,461,817) (11,970,354) (11,069,836) (10,298,370)
Other (167,490) (156,429) (208,546) (286,451) (138,259) (832,007) (251,079) (106,172) (198,614) -
Net change in plan fiduciary net position 8,924,577 (23,345,431) 42,345,835 5,575,346 8,816,132 10,300,282 14,017,383 (4,152,605) (861,522) 21,805,078

Plan fiduciary net position - beginning 227,767,747 251,113,178 208,767,343 203,191,997 194,375,865 184,075,583 170,058,200 174,210,805 175,072,327 153,267,249

Plan fiduciary net position - ending (b) — $ 236,692,324 $227,767,747 $251,113,178 $208,767,343 $203,191,997 $194,375,865 $184,075,583 $170,058,200 $174,210,805 $175,072,327

Net pension liability - ending (a)-(b) $ 95,801,666 $ 91,500,256 $ 51,659,267 $ 84,742,238 $ 77,923,978 $ 72,089,634 $ 72,554,485 $ 66,450,796 $ 53,516,340 $ 47,838,085

Plan fiduciary net position as a

percentage of the total pension liability 71.19% 71.34% 82.94% 71.13% 72.28% 72.95% 71.73% 71.90% 76.50% 78.54%
Covered payroll $ 38,292,673 $ 36,700,692 $ 36,154,902 $ 35,484,738 $ 35,068,361 $ 34,688,256 $ 31,556,856 $ 28,252,538 $ 26,888,005 $ 25,179,750
Net pension liability as a

percentage of covered payroll 250.18% 249.31% 142.88% 238.81% 222.21% 207.82% 229.92% 235.20% 199.03% 189.99%

130

150 of 240


--- page 151 ---
City of San Mateo

Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited) (Continued)
Schedule of Changes in the Net Pension Liability and Related Ratios (Continued)

Total Pension Liability

Service cost

Interest on total pension liability

Differences between expected and actual
experience

Changes in assumptions

Changes in benefit terms

Benefit payments, including refunds of

employee contributions
Net change in total pension liability
Total pension liability - beginning

Total pension liability - ending (a)

Plan fiduciary net position
Contributions - employer
Contributions - employee
Investment income (net of

administrative expenses)
Benefit payments

Other

Net change in plan fiduciary net position

Plan fiduciary net position - beginning

Plan fiduciary net position - ending (b)

Net pension liability - ending (a)-(b)

Plan fiduciary net position as a

percentage of the total pension liability
Covered payroll

Net pension liability as a

percentage of covered payroll

For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Safety Plan

2022-23 2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14
$ 5,234,236 $ 4,815,965 $ 4,521,737 $ 4,385,424 $ 4,449,133 $ 7,417,456 $ 7,342,172 $ 6,024,059 $ 5,876,118 $ 5,866,003
32,047,044 31,147,674 30,250,946 ——-29,312,094 28,324,725 27,109,372 25,954,748 25,211,819 24,350,391 23,707,497
2,427,801 2,215,829 2,818,839 3,435,208 4,999,458 4,313,272 (652,769) (1,229,918) (4,513,903) -
- 15,714,311 3 - - (1,764,356) 20,868,220 - (5,706,829) -
206,341 - - - - - - - - -
(26,386,401) (25,158,731) (23,890,302) (23,017,166) (21,718,515) (20,369,839) (19,099,929) (18,246,437) _ (17,373,723) _ (16,930,299)
13,529,021 28,735,048 13,701,220 14,115,560 —16,054,801 16,705,905 34,412,442 11,759,523 2,632,054 12,643,201
472,391,862 443,656,814 429,955,594 415,840,034 399,785,233 383,079,328 348,666,886 336,907,363 334,275,309 321,632,108
$485,920,883 $472,391,862 $443,656,814 —$429,955,594 $415,840,034 $39,785,233 $383,079,328 $348,666,886 $336,907,363 _$334,275,309
16,292,527 14,717,993 | 13,566,455 12,284,260 14,131,640 13,411,260 —-13,038,623 10,598,960 9,719,832 8,342,908
1,761,725 1,709,770 1,789,979 1,576,589 2,260,834 2,509,623 2,358,978 2,232,023 2,180,686 1,986,679
17,641,331 (24,080,446) 60,169,718 13,065,390 16,597,022 20,229,991 24,165,223 1,116,133 4,925,152 33,561,544
(26,386,401) (25,158,731) (23,890,302) (23,017,166) (21,718,515) (20,369,839) (19,099,929) (18,246,437) (17,373,723) (16,930,299)
(209,675) (198,185) (266,493) (371,100) (179,352) (1,073,204) (320,823) (135,133) (249,571) -
9,099,507 (33,009,599) 51,369,357 3,537,973 11,091,629 14,707,831 20,142,072 (4,434,454) (797,624) 26,960,832

285,135,370 318,144,969 266,775,612 263,237,639 252,146,010 237,438,179 2

7,296,107 221,730,561 222,528,185 195,567,353

$294,234,877 $285,135,370 $318,144,969 $266,775,612 $263,237,639 $252,146,010 $237,438,179 $217,296,107 $221,730,561 $222,528,185

$191,686,006 —$187,256,492 $125,511,845 $163,179,982 $152,602,395 $147,639,223  $145,641,149 $131,370,779 $115,176,802 $111,747,124

60.55% 60.36% 71.71% 62.05% 63.30% 63.07% 61.98% 62.32% 65.81% 66.57%

$ 17,595,173 $ 17,257,920 $ 16,442,390 S$ 16,067,107 $ 22,211,287 $ 28,442,831 $ 27,088,471 $ 24,092,535 S$ 22,899,741 S$ 21,936,448

1089.42% 1085.05% 763.34% 1015.62% 687.05% 519.07% 537.65% 545.28% 502.96% 509.41%

131
151 of 240


--- page 152 ---
City of San Mateo
Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited) (Continued)
Schedule of Contributions - Pension
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Miscellaneous Plan

Fiscal Year: 2023-24

2022-23 2021-22 2020-21 2019-20

Contractually determined contribution (actuarially determined) $ 10,792,135

Contributions in relation to the actuarially determined contributions (10,792,135)

$ 10,683,495 $ 9,953,731 $ 8,968,085  $ 8,308,301
(10,683,495) (9,953,731) (8,968,085) (8,308,301)

$ - $ - §$ - § -

$38,292,673 $36,700,692 $36,154,902 $35,484,738

27.90% 27.12% 24.80% 23.41%

2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15

Contribution deficiency (excess) $ =
Covered payroll $ 40,268,344
Contributions as a percentage of covered payroll 26.80%
Fiscal Year: 2018-19
Contractually determined contribution (actuarially determined) $ 7,343,001

Contributions in relation to the actuarially determined contributions (7,343,001)

$ 6,287,697 $ 5,873,612 $ 5,331,714 $ 4,415,313
(6,287,697) (5,873,612) (5,331,714) (4,415,313)

$ - § - $ - $ :

Contribution deficiency (excess) $ =
Covered payroll $ 35,068,361
Contributions as a percentage of covered payroll 20.94%
Notes to Schedule

$34,688,256 $31,556,856 $28,252,538 $26,888,005

18.13% 18.61% 18.87% 16.42%

Methods and assumptions used to determine contribution rates for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024:

The actuarial methods and assumption used to set the actuarially determined contributions for Fiscal Year 2024 were derived from the June 30, 2020

funding valuation rep ort.

Actuarial cost method Entry Age Normal

Amortization method/period For details, see June 30, 2020 Funding Valuation Report

Asset valuation method

Inflation 2.50%
Salary increases Varies by entry age and service
Payroll growth 2.75%

Investment rate of return

Actuarial Value of Assets. For details, see June 30, 2020 Funding Valuation Report.

7.00% net of pension plan investment and administrative expenses.

The probabilities of retirement are based on the 2017 CalPERS Experience Study for the period from 1997 and

Retirement age 2015.

The probabilities of mortality are based on the the 2017 CalPERS Experience Study for the period from 1997 to
2015. Mortality rates include 15 years of projected mortality improvement using 90% of Scale-MP 2016

Mortality published by the Society of Actuaries.

132

152 of 240


--- page 153 ---
City of San Mateo
Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited) (Continued)
Schedule of Contributions — Pension (Continued)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Safety Plan
Fiscal Year: 2023-24 2022-23 2021-22 2020-21 2019-20
Contractually determined contribution (actuarially determined) $17,313,205 $16,292,527 $14,717,993 $13,566,455 $12,284,260

Contributions in relation to the actuarially determined contributions (17,313,205) (16,292,527) (14,717,993) (13,566,455) = (12,284,260)

Contribution deficiency (excess) $ - §$ - § - §$ - §$ -
Covered payroll $19,524,472 $17,595,173 $17,257,920 $16,442,390 $16,067,107
Contributions as a percentage of covered payroll 88.67% 92.60% 85.28% 82.51% 76.46%
Fiscal Year: 2018-19 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15

Contractually determined contribution (actuarially determined) $12,496,190 $12,011,260 $11,663,623 $10,576,566 $ 9,444,848

Contributions in relation to the actuarially determined contributions (14,121,190) (13,411,260) (13,038,623) (10,576,566) (9,444,848)

Contribution deficiency (excess) $ (1,625,000) $ (1,400,000) $ (1,375,000) $ - §$ -
Covered payroll $22,211,287 $28,442,831 $27,088,471 $24,092,535 $22,899,741
Contributions as a percentage of covered payroll 63.58% 47.15% 48.13% 43.90% 41.24%
Notes to Schedule

Methods and assumptions used to determine contribution rates for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024:

The actuarial methods and assumption used to set the actuarially determined contributions for Fiscal Year 2024 were derived from the June 30, 2020
funding valuation rep ort.

Actuarial cost method Entry Age Normal

Amortization method/period For details, see June 30, 2020 Funding Valuation Report

Asset valuation method Actuarial Value of Assets. For details, see June 30, 2020 Funding Valuation Report.

Inflation 2.50%
Salary increases Varies by entry age and service
Payroll growth 2.75%

Investment rate of return 7.00% net of pension plan investment and administrative expenses.

The probabilities of retirement are based on the 2017 CalPERS Experience Study for the period from 1997 and
Retirement age 2015.

The probabilities of mortality are based on the the 2017 CalPERS Experience Study for the period from 1997 to
2015. Mortality rates include 15 years of projected mortality improvement using 90% of Scale-MP 2016
Mortality published by the Society of Actuaries.

133
153 of 240


--- page 154 ---
City of San Mateo
Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited) (Continued)
Schedule of Changes in Total OPEB Liability and Related Ratios
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018
For the Measurement Period: 2022-2023 2021-2022 2020-2021 2019-2020 2018-2019 2017-2018 2016-2017!
Total OPEB Liability:
Service Cost $ 563,606 $ 548,522 $ 497,327 $ 482,842 $ 692,000 $ 672,000 $ 653,000
Interest on the total OPEB liability 1,079,059 1,048,022 1,144,590 1,113,841 1,338,000 1,286,000 1,240,000
Changes in benefit terms - - - - - - -
Difference between expected
and actual experience 4,098,199 - (670,829) - (3,453,000) - -
Changes in assumptions (1,405,066) - (86,901) - (509,000) - -
Benefit payments (1,112,477) (1,117,596) (1,130,244) (1,181,000) (1,174,000) (1,269,000) (1,178,000)
Net changes in Total OPEB Liability 3,223,321 478,948 (246,057) 415,683 (3,106,000) 689,000 715,000
Beginning of Year 17,257,574 16,778,626 17,024,683 16,609,000 19,715,000 19,026,000 18,311,000
End of Year $ 20,480,895 $17,257,574  $ 16,778,626 $ 17,024,683 $ 16,609,000 $19,715,000 $ 19,026,000
Plan Fiduciary Net Position:
Employer contribution $ 1,193,000 $ 2,056,602 $ 1,817,000 $ 1,825,000 $ 1,950,000 $ 1,913,000 $ 1,852,000
Employee contributions - - - - - - -
Net investment income 683,260 (1,364,786) 2,140,859 239,112 495,000 372,000 334,000
Administrative expenses (2,754) (9,587) (9,723) (11,386) (7,000) (7,000) (2,000)
Benefit payments (1,112,477) (1,117,596) (1,130,244) (1,181,000) (1,174,000) (1,269,000) (1,178,000)
Net changes in Fiduciary Net Position 761,029 (435,367) 2,817,892 871,726 1,264,000 1,009,000 1,006,000
Beginning of Year 8,830,251 9,265,618 6,447,726 5,576,000 4,312,000 3,303,000 2,297,000
End of Year $ 9,591,280 $ 8,830,251 $ 9,265,618 $ 6,447,726 $ 5,576,000 $ 4,312,000 $ 3,303,000
Net OPEB Liability $ 10,889,615 $ 8,427,323 $ 7,513,008  $ 10,576,957 $11,033,000 $ 15,403,000 $ 15,723,000
Fiduciary Net Position as a
percentage of Total OPEB Liability 46.83% 51.17% 55.22% 37.87% 33.57% 21.87% 17.36%
Covered Payroll $ 60,964,235 $59,443,000 $57,176,000 $55,405,000 $ 62,798,000 $ 66,133,000 $57,300,000
Net OPEB Liability as a % of Payroll 17.86% 14.18% 13.14% 19.09% 17.57% 23.29% 27.44%

‘Historical information is presented only from the implementation year.

134
154 of 240


--- page 155 ---
City of San Mateo

Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited) (Continued)

Actuarially determined contribution
Contributions in relation to the
actuarially determined contributions

Contribution deficiency (excess)
Covered-emp loyee payroll

Contributions as a percentage of

covered-emp loyee payroll

Actuarially determined contribution
Contributions in relation to the
actuarially determined contributions

Contribution deficiency (excess)
Covered-emp loyee payroll

Contributions as a percentage of

covered-emp loy ee payroll

Notes to Schedule

Schedule of Contributions - OPEB
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

2023-24 2022-23 2021-22 2020-21 2019-20

$ 1,237,000 $ 1,193,000 $ 1,319,000 $ 1,281,000 $ 1,817,000

(1,237,000) (1,193,000) (2,056,602) (1,817,000) (1,825,000)

$ - §$ - §$ (737,602) $ (536,000) $ (8,000)

$ 64,907,000 $ 60,964,235 $ 59,443,000 . $ 57,176,000 §$ 55,405,000

1.91% 1.94% 3.46% 3.18% 3.29%
2018-19 2017-18 '
$ 1,764,000 $ 1,913,000
(1,950,000) (1,913,000)

$ (186,000). $ -

$ 62,798,000 $ 66,133,000

3.11% 2.89%

The actuarial methods and assumptions used to set the actuarially determined contributions for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 were as follows:

Actuarial valuation date

Actuarial cost method
Amortization Period

Asset valuation method

Inflation
Investment rate of return

Healthcare cost trend rate
Projected salary growth and increase
Mortality

Mortality Improvement

6/30/2023
Entry-Age Normal Cost Method, Level % of pay

16-year fixed period for 2022-2023

Actuarial value of assets. Investment gains and losses spread over 5-year rolling period.

2.50%
6.25%
6.50% for 2025, decreasing to an ultimate rate of 3.90% in 2075

Varies by Entry Age and Service
CalPERS 2000-2019 experience study

Mortality projected fully generational with Scale M P-2021

' Historical information is presented only from the implementation year.

135
155 of 240


--- page 156 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

136
156 of 240


--- page 157 ---
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION

137
157 of 240


--- page 158 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

138
158 of 240


--- page 159 ---
Non-Major Governmental Funds

Special Revenue Funds:

Police Grants and Safety Fund accounts for the revenues and expenditures of State and Federal grants such as State
Supplemental Law Enforcement Services Fund (SLESF).

Community Development Block Grant Fund (CDBG) accounts for revenue and expenditures of CDBG funds
awarded by the Department of Housing and Urban Development.

HOME Special Revenue Fund accounts for revenue and expenditures of the Federal HOME grant program.

City Housing Special Revenue Fund accounts for revenues from a former Federal Rental Rehabilitation program and
loan payments from the First-Time Homebuyer program.

Low and Moderate Income Housing Special Revenue Fund accounts for revenues and expenditures of the former
Redevelopment Agency Special Revenue Fund.

Permanent Local Housing Allocation Special Revenue Fund accounts for revenues and expenditures of the
Permanent Local Housing Allocation program.

Gas Tax Fund accounts for gasoline tax revenues as required by State law.
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Fund accounts for SB1 gasoline tax revenues as required by State law.

Advance Planning Fund accounts for fees collected through building permits and expenditures for activities relating
to long term planning, including the general plan update.

Solid Waste Fund accounts for garbage collection surcharge revenues. The use of funds is restricted by City ordinance
to street cleaning and waste disposal.

Parks and Recreation accounts for the Parks and Recreation Tax, as well as the Parks and Recreation Impact and In
Lieu Fees to fund Parks and Recreation related projects through a transfer to the Capital Improvement Projects Fund.

Traffic Impact Fee accounts for traffic impact fee revenues to mitigate the cumulative impacts of new development
and to accommodate future development.

Commercial Linkage Fee accounts for commercial linkage fee to be used for housing programs including acquisition,
rehabilitation, or new construction of housing.

Construction Services Special Revenue Fund This fund accounts for revenue and expenditures of activities relating
to building permits.

Debt Service Funds:

Landfill Bonds Fund accounts for debt service payments on landfill revenue bonds (to finance expenditures related to
final closure of the former landfill site and construction of related park improvements) and post-closure monitoring
costs.

General Obligation Bonds Fund accounts for voter-approved property tax revenues and debt service payments on
general obligation bonds.

Capital Projects Funds:

2% Hotel Tax Fund accounts for the voter-approved 2% hotel tax revenue Measure C, the related transfers to the
capital improvement fund, and debt service on variable rate bonds.

139
159 of 240


--- page 160 ---
City of San Mateo
Combining Balance Sheet
Non-Major Governmental Funds

June 30, 2024
Special Revenue
Community
Police Development
Grants Block Grant HOME City Housing
Fund Fund Fund Fund
ASSETS
Cash and investments $ 244,334 $ 77,122 $ 292,098 $ 1,143,075
Restricted cash and investments held by fiscal agents - = - -
Accounts receivable, net 155,040 - - -
Taxes receivable - - - -
Grants receivable 207,197 55,965 - -
Loans and notes receivable, net - 367,773 216,305 54,684
Total assets $ 606,571 _ _$ 500,860 _$ 508,403 _$ 1,197,759
LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS
OF RESOURCES, AND
FUND BALANCES
Liabilities:

Accounts payable 49,935 29,933 - -

Deposits payable - - - -

Unearned revenues 25,443 - 300 -
Total liabilities 75,378 29,933 300 -

DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES

Unavailable revenue - 79,851 24,787 -

Total deferred inflows of resources - 79,851 24,787 -
Fund Balances:

Restricted 531,193 391,076 483,316 1,197,759
Total fund balances 531,193 391,076 483,316 1,197,759
Total liabilities, deferred inflows of

resources, and fund balances $ 606,571 _ _$ 500,860 _ _$ 508,403 _$ 1,197,759

(Continued)

140
160 of 240


--- page 161 ---
City of San Mateo
Combining Balance Sheet (Continued)
Non-Major Governmental Funds

June 30, 2024
Special Revenue
Permanent
Low & Moderate Local Housing Road Maintenance
Income Housing Allocation Gas Tax and Rehabilitation
Fund Fund Fund Fund
ASSETS
Cash and investments $ 2,447,758 §$ 533,287 $ 1,518,169 §$ 7,016,965
Restricted cash and investments held by fiscal agents - - - -
Accounts receivable, net - - - -
Taxes receivable - - 250,276 475,608
Grants receivable - - - -
Loans and notes receivable, net 2,881,365 - - -
Total assets $ 5,329)123_$ 533,287 _$ 1,768,445 _$ 7,492,573
LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS
OF RESOURCES, AND
FUND BALANCES
Liabilities:

Accounts payable 522 21,792 - -

Deposits payable 167 - - -

Unearned revenues TT 501,471 - -
Total liabilities 689 523,263 - -

DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES

Unavailable revenue 193,230 - - -

Total deferred inflows of resources 193,230 - - -
Fund Balances:

Restricted 5,135,204 10,024 1,768,445 7,492,573
Total fund balances 5,135,204 10,024 1,768,445 7,492,573
Total liabilities, deferred inflows of

resources, and fund balances $ 5,329,123 _$ 533,287_ _$ 1,768,445 _$ 7,492,573
(Continued)
141

161 of 240


--- page 162 ---
City of San Mateo
Combining Balance Sheet (Continued)
Non-Major Governmental Funds

June 30, 2024
Special Revenue
Parks and Traffic
Advance Planning Solid Waste Recreation Impact Fee
Fund Fund Fund Fund
ASSETS

Cash and investments $ 5,621,105 $ 15,438,919 §$ 19,442,376 §$ 56,420
Restricted cash and investments held by fiscal agents - - - -
Accounts receivable, net - 353,401 - -
Taxes receivable - - - -
Grants receivable 248,266 - - -
Loans and notes receivable, net - - - -

Total assets $ 5,869,371 _ _$ 15,792,320 _$ 19,442,376 _$ 56,420

LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS
OF RESOURCES, AND
FUND BALANCES

Liabilities:

Accounts payable 28,362 1,034,468 - -

Deposits payable - - - -

Unearned revenues - 334,785 - -
Total liabilities 28,362 1,369,253 - -

DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES

Unavailable revenue - - - -

Total deferred inflows of resources - - - -
Fund Balances:

Restricted 5,841,009 14,423,067 19,442,376 56,420
Total fund balances 5,841,009 14,423,067 19,442,376 56,420
Total liabilities, deferred inflows of

resources, and fund balances $ 5,869,371 _$ 15,792,320 _$ 19,442,376 _$ 56,420

(Continued)

142
162 of 240


--- page 163 ---
City of San Mateo
Combining Balance Sheet (Continued)
Non-Major Governmental Funds
June 30, 2024

Special Revenue Debt Service

Commercial Construction General
Linkage Fee Services Landfill Bonds Obligation Bonds
Fund Fund Fund Fund
ASSETS
Cash and investments $ 3,405,093 $§$ 28,917,294 $ 4,496,451 §$ 7,593,940
Restricted cash and investments held by fiscal agents - = - -
Accounts receivable, net - 346,468 - -
Taxes receivable - - - -
Grants receivable - 38,100 - -
Loans and notes receivable, net - - - -
Total assets $ 3,405,093 _$ 29,301,862 _$ 4,496,451 _$ 7,593,940
LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS
OF RESOURCES, AND
FUND BALANCES
Liabilities:

Accounts payable - 341,662 6,449 2,125

Deposits payable - 260,708 - -

Unearned revenues - 1,765,575 - -
Total liabilities - 2,367,945 6,449 2,125

DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES

Unavailable revenue - - - -

Total deferred inflows of resources - - - -
Fund Balances:

Restricted 3,405,093 26,933,917 4,490,002 7,591,815
Total fund balances 3,405,093 26,933,917 4,490,002 7,591,815
Total liabilities, deferred inflows of

resources, and fund balances $ 3,405,093 _$ 29,301,862 _$ 4,496,451 _$ 7,593,940
(Continued)
143

163 of 240


--- page 164 ---
City of San Mateo
Combining Balance Sheet (Continued)
Non-Major Governmental Funds
June 30, 2024

ASSETS

Cash and investments

Restricted cash and investments held by fiscal agents
Accounts receivable, net

Taxes receivable

Grants receivable

Loans and notes receivable, net

Total assets

LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS
OF RESOURCES, AND
FUND BALANCES
Liabilities:
Accounts payable
Deposits payable
Unearned revenues

Total liabilities

DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Unavailable revenue

Total deferred inflows of resources

Fund Balances:
Restricted

Total fund balances

Total liabilities, deferred inflows of
resources, and fund balances

144

Capital Projects
Total Other
2% Hotel Tax Governmental
Fund Funds
$ 80,795 $ 98,325,201
35,883 35,883
- 854,909
78,824 804,708
- 549,528
- 3,520,127
$ 195,502. _$ 104,090,356
16,597 1,531,845
- 260,875
- 2,627,574
16,597 4,420,294
- 297,868
- 297,868
178,905 99,372,194
178,905 99,372,194

$ 195,502

104,090,356

195,502 _$ _104,090.356_

(Concluded)

164 of 240


--- page 165 ---
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Revenues, Expenditures, and Changes in Fund Balances
Non-Major Governmental Funds
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Special Revenue

REVENUES:

Property taxes

Other taxes

Licenses, building and other permits
Fines, forfeitures and penalties
Intergovernmental

Charges for services

Investment income

Assessments and garbage collection
Capital contributions

Other revenues

Total revenues

EXPENDITURES:

Current:
General government:
City Manager
City Attorney
Information technology
Community development
Public safety:
Police
Public works
Non-departmental
Capital outlay
Debt service:
Principal
Interest and fiscal charges

Total expenditures

REVENUES OVER
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES

OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):

Transfers in
Transfers out

Total other financing sources (uses)
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES

FUND BALANCES:
Beginning of year, as previously reported

Change with financial reporting entity
(major to non major fund)

Beginning of year, as restated (Note 19)
End of year

Police
Grants
Fund

$ -

218,732
959,315

15,158

1,193,205

960,900

92,713

1,053,613

139,592 (14,086)

139,592

391,601

391,601

$

Community

Development

Block Grant
Fund

181,260

22,273
203,533

217,619

(14,086)

405,162

405,162

$

HOME
Fund

80,551

80,551

402,765

402,765

City Housing
Fund

231,660
231,660

1,095 -

231,660

231,660

966,099

966,099

$ 531,193 _$ 391,076_ _$ 483.316 _$ 1,197,759

145

(Continued)

165 of 240


--- page 166 ---
REVENUES:

Property taxes

Other taxes

Licenses, building and other permits
Fines, forfeitures and penalties
Intergovernmental

Charges for services

Investment income

Assessments and garbage collection
Capital contributions

Other revenues

Total revenues

EXPENDITURES:

Current:
General government:
City Manager
City Attorney
Information technology
Community development
Public safety:
Police
Public works
Non-departmental
Capital outlay
Debt service:
Principal
Interest and fiscal charges

Total expenditures

REVENUES OVER
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES

OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):

Transfers in
Transfers out

Total other financing sources (uses)
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES

FUND BALANCES:
Beginning of year, as previously reported

Change with financial reporting entity
(major to non major fund)

Beginning of year, as restated (Note 19)
End of year

City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Revenues, Expenditures, and Changes in Fund Balances (Continued)
Non-Major Governmental Funds

For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Low & Moderate
Income Housing

Fund

162,850

301,593
464.443

40,749

423,694

423,694

4,711,510

4,711,510

$ 5,135,204

146

Special Revenue

Permanent
Local Housing
Allocation
Fund

$ -

304,820

7,309

312,129

304,820

304,820

7,309

7,309

2,715

2,715
$ 10,024

Road Maintenance

Gas Tax and Rehabilitation
Fund Fund

$ - §$ -

2,892,843 2,729,016

66,100 249,987

2,958,943 2,979,003

2,958,943 2,979,003

(2,458,258) (97,749)
(2,458,258) (97,749)

500,685 2,881,254
1,267,760 4,611,319
1,267,760 4,611,319

$ 1.768.445 _$ 7,492,573
(Continued)

166 of 240


--- page 167 ---
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Revenues, Expenditures, and Changes in Fund Balances (Continued)
Non-Major Governmental Funds
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Special Revenue

Parks and Traffic
Advance Planning Solid Waste Recreation Impact Fee
——_Fund Fund Fond Fund

REVENUES:
Property taxes $ - $ - $ - §$ -
Other taxes - - - -
Licenses, building and other permits - - - -
Fines, forfeitures and penalties - - - -
Intergovernmental 368,936 105,841 - -
Charges for services 1,744,137 1,080,976 - -
Investment income 255,174 706,390 729,113 14,508
Assessments and garbage collection - 1,750,309 159,539 -
Capital contributions - 600,000 7,317,600 773,139
Other revenues — OE S03I2 ee

Total revenues 2,368,247 4,293,828 8,206,252 787,647
EXPENDITURES:
Current:

General government:

City Manager 9,850 - - -

City Attorney - - - -

Information technology - - - -
Community development 1,622,193 - - -
Public safety:

Police - - - -
Public works - 3,592,804 - -
Non-departmental - - 16,881 -

Capital outlay - - - -
Debt service:
Principal - - - -
Interest and fiscal charges - - - -
Total expenditures 1,632,043 3,592,804 16,881 -
REVENUES OVER
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES 736,204 701,024 8,189,371 787,647
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):
Transfers in - - - -
Transfers out - (437,480) (1,032,914) (1,046,931)
Total other financing sources (uses) - (437,480) (1,032,914) (1,046,931)
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES 736,204 263,544 7,156,457 (259,284)
FUND BALANCES:
Beginning of year, as previously reported 5,104,805 14,159,523 12,285,919 315,704
Change with financial reporting entity
(major to non major fund) - - - -
Beginning of year, as restated (Note 19) 5,104,805 14,159,523 12,285,919 315,704
End of year $ 5,841,009 _$ 14.423.067_ _$ 19,442,376 _$ 56,420
(Continued)

147
167 of 240


--- page 168 ---
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Revenues, Expenditures, and Changes in Fund Balances (Continued)
Non-Major Governmental Funds
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Special Revenue Debt Service
Commercial Construction General
Linkage Fee Services Landfill Bonds Obligation Bonds
——_Fund Fund Fond Find
REVENUES:
Property taxes $ - §$ - §$ - §$ 2,724,717
Other taxes - - - -
Licenses, building and other permits - 7,248,749 - -
Fines, forfeitures and penalties - - - -
Intergovernmental - 38,100 - -
Charges for services - 2,746,219 - -
Investment income 164,327 1,608,951 210,231 314,808
Assessments and garbage collection - - 450,000 -
Capital contributions - - - -
Other revenues — iG WA ~~ 55 ee
Total revenues 164,327 11,642,074 660,231 3,039,525
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
General government:

City Manager - 115,164 - -

City Attorney - 229,587 - -

Information technology - 123,895 - -
Community development - 9,946,353 - -
Public safety:

Police - - - -
Public works - 1,094,733 88,049 -
Non-departmental 5,085 - - 122,851

Capital outlay - 25,855 - -
Debt service:
Principal - - - 2,485,000
Interest and fiscal charges - - - 2,193,200
Total expenditures 5,085 11,535,587 88,049 4,801,051
REVENUES OVER
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES 159,242 106,487 572,182 (1,761,526)
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):
Transfers in - - - 2,691,887
Transfers out - (5,800,330) (35,947) -
Total other financing sources (uses) - (5,800,330) (35,947) 2,691,887
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES 159,242 (5,693,843) 536,235 930,361
FUND BALANCES:
Beginning of year, as previously reported 3,245,851 - 3,953,767 6,661,454
Change with financial reporting entity
(major to non major fund) - 32,627,760 - -
Beginning of year, as restated (Note 19) 3,245,851 32,627,760 3,953,767 6,661,454
End of year $ 3,405,093 _$ 26,933,917 _$ 4,490,002 _$ 7,591,815
(Continued)
148

168 of 240


--- page 169 ---
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Revenues, Expenditures, and Changes in Fund Balances (Continued)
Non-Major Governmental Funds
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

—Capital Projects _

Total Other
2% Hotel Tax Governmental
— Fund Funds

REVENUES:
Property taxes $ - §$ 2,724,717
Other taxes 887,679 887,679
Licenses, building and other permits - 7,248,749
Fines, forfeitures and penalties - 218,732
Intergovernmental - 7,580,131
Charges for services - 5,571,332
Investment income 13,554 4,518,460
Assessments and garbage collection - 2,359,848
Capital contributions - 8,690,739
Other revenues - 687,539

Total revenues 901,233 40,487,926
EXPENDITURES:
Current:

General government:

City Manager - 125,014

City Attorney - 229,587

Information technology - 123,895
Community development - 12,132,829
Public safety:

Police - 960,900
Public works - 4,775,586
Non-departmental 144,933 289,750

Capital outlay - 118,568
Debt service:
Principal 510,000 2,995,000
Interest and fiscal charges 326,307 2,519,507
Total expenditures 981,240 24,270,636
REVENUES OVER
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES (80,007) 16,217,290
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):
Transfers in - 2,691,887
Transfers out - (10,909,609)
Total other financing sources (uses) - (8,217,722)
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES (80,007) 7,999,568
FUND BALANCES:
Beginning of year, as previously reported 258,912 58,744,866
Change with financial reporting entity
(major to non major fund) - 32,627,760
Beginning of year, as restated (Note 19) 258,912 91,372,626
End of year $ 178.905_ _$ 99,372,194
(Concluded)

149
169 of 240


--- page 170 ---
REVENUES:

Fines, forfeitures and penalties
Intergovernmental
Investment income

Total revenues

EXPENDITURES:

Current:
Public safety:
Police
Capital outlay

Total expenditures
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE

FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year

End of year

City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual

Budgeted Amounts
Original Final
$ - $ -
563,539 2,330,054
6,000 6,000
569,539 2,336,054
863,856 2,485,658
- 144,713
863,856 2,630,371
$ (294,317) _$ (294,317)
150

Police Grants Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Actual
Amounts

$ 218,732
959,315
15,158

1,193,205

960,900
92,713

1,053,613

139,592

391,601
531,193

$531,193

Variance with
Final Budget
Favorable/

(Unfavorable)

$ 218,732
(1,370,739)
9,158

(1,142,849)

1,524,758
52,000

1,576,758

433,909

-$___433.909

170 of 240


--- page 171 ---
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
Community Development Block Grant Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Variance with

Final Budget
Budgeted Amounts Actual Favorable/
Original Final Amounts (Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Intergovernmental $ 696,000 $ 696,000 $ 181,260 $ (514,740)
Other revenues 8,000 8,000 22,273 14,273
Total revenues 704,000 704,000 203,533 (500,467)
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
Community development 252,899 252,899 217,619 35,280
Total expenditures 252,899 252,899 217,619 35,280
REVENUES OVER
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES 451,101 451,101 (14,086) (535,747)
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):
Transfers out (610,000) (610,000) - 610,000
Total other financing sources (uses) (610,000) (610,000) - 610,000
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE $ (158,899) $ (158,899) (14,086) $ 74,253
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year 405,162
End of year $ 391,076

151
171 of 240


--- page 172 ---
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
HOME Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Variance with
Final Budget

Budgeted Amounts Actual Favorable/
Original Final Amounts (Unfavorable)

REVENUES:
Other revenues $ 15,000 $ 15,000 $ 81,646 $ 66,646

Total revenues 15,000 15,000 81,646 66,646
EXPENDITURES:
Current:

Community development —__ 10,000 _s TOOTH 9S 8905

Total expenditures 10,000 10,000 1,095 8,905
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE $ 5,000 $ 5,000 80,551 $ 75,551
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year 402,765
End of year $ 483,316

152

172 of 240


--- page 173 ---
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
City Housing Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Variance with

Final Budget
Budgeted Amounts Actual Favorable/
Original Final Amounts (Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Investment income $ 18,000 $ 18,000 $ - $ (18,000)
Other revenues 16,000 16,000 231,660 215,660
Total revenues 34,000 34,000 231,660 197,660
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
Community development 198,500 198,500 - 198,500
Total expenditures 198,500 198,500 - 198,500
REVENUES OVER
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES (164,500) (164,500) 231,660 (840)
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE $ (164,500) $ (164,500) 231,660 $ 396,160
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year 966,099
End of year $ 1,197,759

153
173 of 240


--- page 174 ---
REVENUES:

Investment income
Other revenues

Total revenues

EXPENDITURES:

Current:
Community development

Total expenditures
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE

FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year

End of year

City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
Low and Moderate Income Housing Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Budgeted Amounts
Original Final
$ 73,000 $ 73,000
214,000 214,000
287,000 287,000
146,399 146,399
146,399 146,399
$ 140,601 $ 140,601
154

Variance with

Final Budget

Actual Favorable/
Amounts (Unfavorable)
$ 162,850 $ 89,850
301,593) 857,593
464,443 177,443
40.749 105,650
40,749 105,650 _
423,694 $71,793

4,711,510

$ 5,135,204

174 of 240


--- page 175 ---
REVENUES:

Intergovernmental
Investment income

Total revenues

EXPENDITURES:

Current:

Community development

Total expenditures
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE

FUND BALANCE:

Beginning of year

End of year

City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual

Budgeted Amounts
Original Final
500,000 $ 1,084,800
500,000 1,084,800
500,000 1,267,460
500,000 1,267,460
2 $ (182,660)
155

Permanent Local Housing Allocation Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Actual
Amounts

$ 304,820
7,309

312,129

304,820
304,820

7,309

2,715
10,024

Variance with
Final Budget
Favorable/

(Unfavorable)

$ (779,980)
7,309

(772,671)

962,640
962,640

S__ 189,969

175 of 240


--- page 176 ---
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
Gas Tax Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Variance with

Final Budget
Budgeted Amounts Actual

Favorable/
Original Final Amounts (Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Intergovernmental $ 3,018,448 $ 3,018,448 $ 2,892,843 $ (125,605)
Investment income 12,000 12,000 66,100 54,100
Total revenues 3,030,448 3,030,448 2,958,943 (71,505)
OTHER FINANCING (USES):
Transfers out (2,267,500) (2,267,500) (2,458,258) (190,758)
Total other financing (uses) (2,267,500) (2,267,500) (2,458,258) (190,758)
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE $ 762,948 $ 762,948 500,685 $ (262,263)
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year 1,267,760
End of year $ 1,768,445
156

176 of 240


--- page 177 ---
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Variance with

Final Budget
Budgeted Amounts Actual Favorable/
Original Final Amounts (Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Intergovernmental $ 2,614,190 $ 2,614,190 $ 2,729,016 $ 114,826
Investment income 17,000 17,000 249,987 232,987
Total revenues 2,631,190 2,631,190 2,979,003 347,813
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):
Transfers out (2,000,000) (2,000,000) (97,749) 1,902,251
Total other financing sources (uses) (2,000,000) (2,000,000) (97,749) 1,902,251
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE $ 631,190 $ 631,190 2,881,254 $ 2,250,064
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year 4,611,319
End of year $ 7,492,573

157
177 of 240


--- page 178 ---
REVENUES:

Intergovernmental
Charges for services
Investment income

Total revenues

EXPENDITURES:

Current:
General government:
City Manager
Community development

Total expenditures
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE

FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year

End of year

City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual

Advance Planning Special Revenue Fund

For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Budgeted Amounts
Original Final
$ 50,000 $ 50,000
1,700,000 1,700,000
92,000 92,000
1,842,000 1,842,000
- 166,300
1,422,665 1,422,665
1,422,665 1,588,965
$ 419,335 $ 253,035
158

Variance with
Final Budget

Actual Favorable/
Amounts (Unfavorable)
$ 368,936 $ 318,936
1,744,137 44,137
255,174 163,174
2,368,247 526,247
9,850 156,450
1,622,193 (199,528)
1,632,043 (43,078)
736,204 $ 569,325
5,104,805
$ 5,841,009

178 of 240


--- page 179 ---
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
Solid Waste Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Variance with

Final Budget
Budgeted Amounts Actual Favorable/
Original Final Amounts (Unfavorable)

REVENUES:
Fines, forfeitures and penalties $ 400,000 $ 400,000 $ - $ (400,000)
Intergovernmental 214,000 214,000 105,841 (108,159)
Charges for services 750,000 750,000 1,080,976 330,976
Investment income 160,000 160,000 706,390 546,390
Assessments and garbage collection 1,076,160 1,076,160 1,750,309 674,149
Capital contributions 750,000 750,000 600,000 (150,000)
Other revenues 82,000 82,000 50,312 (31,688)

Total revenues 3,432,160 3,432,160 4,293,828 861,668
EXPENDITURES:
Current:

Public works 2,848,189 3,848,189 3,592,804 255,385

Capital outlay 410,000 410,000 - 410,000

Total expenditures 3,258,189 4,258,189 3,592,804 665,385
REVENUES OVER

(UNDER) EXPENDITURES 173,971 (826,029) 701,024 196,283

OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):
Transfers out (750,000) (750,000) (437,480) 312,520

Total other financing sources (uses) (750,000) (750,000) (437,480) 312,520
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE $ (576,029) $ (1,576,029) 263,544 $ 508,803
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year 14,159,523
End of year $ 14,423,067

159
179 of 240


--- page 180 ---
REVENUES:

Investment income
Assessments and garbage collection
Capital contributions

Total revenues

EXPENDITURES:

Current:
Non-departmental

Total expenditures

REVENUES OVER
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES

OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):

Transfers out

Total other financing sources (uses)
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE

FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year

End of year

City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
Parks and Recreation Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Budgeted Amounts
Original Final
$ 187,000 $ 187,000
10,780,136 10,780,136
10,967,136 10,967,136
16,882 16,882
16,882 16,882
10,950,254 10,950,254
(3,050,000) (3,050,000)
(3,050,000) (3,050,000)

7,900,254

-S__7,900,254_

160

7,900,254

-S__7,900,254_

Variance with

Final Budget
Actual Favorable/
Amounts (Unfavorable)
$ 729,113 $ 542,113
159,539 159,539
7,317,600 (3,462,536)
8,206,252 (2,760,884)
16,881 1
16,881 1
8,189,371 (2,760,885)
(1,032,914) 2,017,086
(1,032,914) 2,017,086
7,156,457 $ (743,799)
12,285,919

19,442,376

=$___19.442,376_

180 of 240


--- page 181 ---
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
Traffic Impact Fee Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Variance with

Final Budget
Budgeted Amounts Actual Favorable/
Original Final Amounts (Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Investment income $ 32,000 $ 32,000 $ 14,508 $ (17,492)
Capital contributions 2,505,482 2,505,482 773,139 (1,732,343)
Total revenues 2,537,482 2,537,482 787,647 (1,749,835)
OTHER FINANCING (USES):
Transfers out (49,860) (49,860) (1,046,931) (997,071)
Total other financing (uses) (49,860) (49,860) (1,046,931) (997,071)
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE $ 2,487,622 $ 2,487,622 (259,284) _$ (2,746,906)
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year 315,704
End of year $ 56,420

161
181 of 240


--- page 182 ---
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
Commercial Linkage Fee Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Variance with
Final Budget

Budgeted Amounts Actual Favorable/
Original Final Amounts (Unfavorable)

REVENUES:
Investment income $ 125,000 $ 125,000 $ 164,327 $ 39,327

Total revenues 125,000 125,000 164,327 39,327
EXPENDITURES:
Current:

Non-departmental 085 08S OBS

Total expenditures 5,085 5,085 5,085 -
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE $ 119,915 $ 119,915 159,242 $ 39,327
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year 3,245,851
End of year $ 3,405,093

162

182 of 240


--- page 183 ---
City of San Mateo

Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual

Construction Services Special Revenue Fund

For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

REVENUES:

Licenses, building and other permits
Intergovernmental

Charges for services

Investment income

Other revenues

Total revenues

EXPENDITURES:

Current:
General government:
City Manager
City Attorney
Information technology
Community development
Public works
Capital outlay

Total expenditures

REVENUES OVER
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES

OTHER FINANCING (USES):
Transfers out

Total other financing (uses)
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE

FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year

End of year

Budgeted Amounts
Original Final
$ 7,185,100 $ 7,185,100
1,156,000 1,156,000
479,000 479,000
8,820,100 8,820,100
112,698 112,698
193,156 193,156
118,258 118,258
10,973,556 10,973,556
1,061,401 1,061,401
12,459,069 12,459,069
(3,638,969) (3,638,969)
(5,525,933) (5,525,933)
(5,525,933) (5,525,933)
$ (9,164,902) _$ (9,164,902)
163

Actual
Amounts

$ 7,248,749
38,100

2,746,219
1,608,951

55

11,642,074

115,164
229,587
123,895
9,946,353
1,094,733
25,855

11,535,587

106,487

(5,800,330)

(5,800,330)

(5,693,843)

32,627,760

$ 26,933,917

—_——

Variance with
Final Budget
Favorable/

(Unfavorable)

63,649
38,100
1,590,219
1,129,951
55

2,821,974

(2,466)
(36,431)
(5,637)
1,027,203
(33,332)
(25,855)

923,482

1,898,492

(274,397)
(274,397)

S___ 1,624,095

183 of 240


--- page 184 ---
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
Landfill Bonds Debt Service Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Variance with

Final Budget
Budgeted Amounts Actual Favorable/
Original Final Amounts (Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Investment income $ 55,000 $ 55,000 $ 210,231 $ 155,231
Assessments and garbage collection 600,000 600,000 450,000 (150,000)
Total revenues 655,000 655,000 660,231 5,231
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
Public works 96,586 96,586 88,049 8,537
Total expenditures 96,586 96,586 88,049 8,537
REVENUES OVER
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES 558,414 558,414 572,182 (3,306)
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):
Transfers out - - (35,947) (35,947)
Total other financing sources (uses) - - (35,947) (35,947)
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE $ 558,414 $ 558,414 536,235 $ (22,179)
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year 3,953,767
End of year $ 4,490,002

164
184 of 240


--- page 185 ---
City of San Mateo

Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
General Obligation Bonds Debt Service Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

REVENUES:

Property taxes
Investment income

Total revenues

EXPENDITURES:

Current:
Non-departmental
Debt service:
Principal
Interest and fiscal charges

Total expenditures

REVENUES OVER
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES

OTHER FINANCING SOURCES:
Transfers in

Total other financing sources
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE

FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year

End of year

Budgeted Amounts
Original Final

$ 2,049,050 $ 2,049,050

99,000 99,000

2,148,050 2,148,050

121,477 121,477

2,485,000 2,485,000

2,193,200 2,193,200

4,799,677 4,799,677
(2,651,627) (2,651,627)

2,691,887 2,691,887

2,691,887 2,691,887

$ 40,260 $ 40,260

165

Variance with

Final Budget
Actual Favorable/
Amounts (Unfavorable)
$ 2,724,717 $ 675,667
314,808 215,808
3,039,525 891,475
122,851 (1,374)
2,485,000 -
2,193,200 -
4,801,051 (1,374)
(1,761,526) 890, 101
2,691,887 -
2,691,887 -
930,361 $ 890,101
6,661,454
S$ 7,591,815_

185 of 240


--- page 186 ---
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
2% Hotel Tax Capital Projects Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Variance with

Final Budget
Budgeted Amounts Actual Favorable/
Original Final Amounts (Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Other taxes $ 1,000,000 $ 1,000,000 $ 887,679 $ (112,321)
Investment income - - 13,554 13,554
Total revenues 1,000,000 1,000,000 901,233 (98,767)
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
Non-departmental 138,889 138,889 144,933 (6,044)
Debt service:
Principal 510,000 510,000 510,000 -
Interest and fiscal charges 328,000 328,000 326,307 1,693
Total expenditures 976,889 976,889 981,240 (4,351)
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE $ 23,111 $ 23,111 (80,007) $ (103,118)
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year 258,912
End of year $ 178,905

166
186 of 240


--- page 187 ---
Internal Service Funds

Workers’ Compensation Insurance Fund accounts for all workers' compensation self-insurance activities.

Dental Self-Insurance Fund accounts for the City's self-insurance activities related to the dental plan the City provides
to its employees.

Benefits Fund accounts for charges to other funds and expenditures relating to employee benefits other than those
accounted for in the Worker Compensation and Dental Self-Insurance Funds.

Comprehensive Liability Insurance Fund accounts for the general liability self-insurance transactions.

Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund accounts for rental charges to City departments and the replacement of
vehicles and equipment.

Fleet and Building Maintenance Fund accounts for the charges to user departments and the expenses relating to the
maintenance of City vehicles and buildings.

167
187 of 240


--- page 188 ---
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Net Position
All Internal Service Funds

June 30, 2024
Workers' Comprehensive
Compensation Dental Liability
Insurance Self-Insurance Benefits Insurance
ASSETS
Current assets:

Cash and investments $ 21,130,235 $ 839,569 §$ 486,131 $ 1,872,569

Accounts receivable, net - - 723,787 -

Prepaid items, inventory, and deposits 395,000 147,000 - 30,000
Total current assets 21,525,235 986,569 1,209,918 1,902,569

Noncurrent assets:
Capital assets:
Depreciable, net - - - -
Total capital assets - - - -
Total noncurrent assets , - - -
Total assets 21,525,235 986,569 1,209,918 1,902,569
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities:

Accounts payable 72,609 51,371 12,568 285,996

Deposits payable - - 113,014 -

Claims payable - due within one year — 2,743,000 13 01,000
Total current liabilities 2,815,609) SN B7L 1255820 586,996 |

Noncurrent liabilities:

Claims payable - due in more than one year 11,115,000 - - 2,739,000
Total noncurrent liabilities 11,115,000 - - 2,739,000
Total liabilities 13,930,609 51,371 125,582 4,325,996

NET POSITION
Net investment in capital assets - - - -
Unrestricted (deficit) 7,594,626 935,198 1,084,336 (2,423,427)
Total net position $ 7,594,626 _$ 935,198 _$ 1,084,336 _$ (2,423,427)
168

188 of 240


--- page 189 ---
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Net Position (Continued)
All Internal Service Funds

June 30, 2024
Vehicle and Fleet and
Equipment Building
Replacement Maintenance Total
ASSETS
Current assets:

Cash and investments $ 11,178,759 §$ 434,887 $ 35,942,150

Accounts receivable, net - - 723,787

Prepaid items, inventory, and deposits - 32,174 604,174
Total current assets 11,178,759 467,061 37,270,111

Noncurrent assets:
Capital assets:
Depreciable, net 7,046,991 70,655 7,117,646
Total capital assets 7,046,991 70,655 7,117,646
Total noncurrent assets 7,046,991 70,655 7,117,646
Total assets 18,225,750 537,716 44,387,757
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities:

Accounts payable 99,490 342,040 864,074

Deposits payable - - 113,014

Claims payable - due within one year - - 4,044,000
Total current liabilities 99,490 342,040 5,021,088

Noncurrent liabilities:

Claims payable - due in more than one year - - 13,854,000
Total noncurrent liabilities - - 13,854,000
Total liabilities 99,490 342,040 18,875,088

NET POSITION
Net investment in capital assets 7,046,991 70,655 7,117,646
Unrestricted (deficit) 11,079,269 125,021 18,395,023
Total net position $ 18,126,260. _$ 195,676 _$ 25,512,669

169
189 of 240


--- page 190 ---
Combining Statement of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position

OPERATING REVENUES:

Charges for services
Other

Total operating revenues

OPERATING EXPENSES:

Personnel services
Materials and supplies
Depreciation and amortization

Total operating expenses

OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)

City of San Mateo

All Internal Service Funds
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Workers'
Compensation
Insurance

$ 4,383,314

4,383,314

402,930
3,755,628

4,158,558

224,756

NONOPERATING REVENUES (EXPENSES):

Investment income
Gain on sale of capital assets

Total nonoperating revenues (expenses)
INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE TRANSFERS

TRANSFERS:

Transfers in
Transfers out

Total transfers
Changes in net position

NET POSITION:
Beginning of year

End of year

979,227

979,227

1,203,983

1,203,983

6,390,643

S$ 7,504,626

170

Dental
Self-Insurance

Benefits

752,013 $ 44,516,220

752,013 44,516,220

s 43,874,661

815,539 111,499

815,539 43,986,160

(63,526) 530,060

(63,526) 530,060

(63,526) 530,060

998,724 554,276

$ 935,198 _$ 1,084,336

Comprehensive
Liability
Insurance

$ 2,793,000
10,571,570

13,364,570

149,250
4,652,903

4,802,153

8,562,417

71,605

71,605

8,634,022

1,000,000

1,000,000

9,634,022

(12,057,449)
$ (2,423,427)

190 of 240


--- page 191 ---
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position (Continued)
All Internal Service Funds
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Vehicle & Fleet &
Equipment Building
Replacement Maintenance Total

OPERATING REVENUES:
Charges for services $ 1,897,309 §$ 5,411,666 $ 59,753,522
Other 2,112 6,090 10,579,772

Total operating revenues 1,899,421 5,417,756 70,333,294
OPERATING EXPENSES:
Personnel services - 1,697,768 46,124,609
Materials and supplies 1,444,599 4,358,304 15,138,472
Depreciation and amortization 1,266,565 4,486 1,271,051

Total operating expenses 2,711,164 6,060,558 62,534,132
OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) (811,743) (642,802) 7,799,162
NONOPERATING REVENUES (EXPENSES):
Investment income 597,750 - 1,648,582
Gain on sale of capital assets 74,946 - 74,946

Total nonoperating revenues (expenses) 672,696 - 1,723,528
INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE TRANSFERS (139,047) (642,802) 9,522,690
TRANSFERS:
Transfers in 410,000 - 1,410,000
Transfers out (913,548) - (913,548)

Total transfers (503,548) - 496,452

Changes in net position (642,595) (642,802) 10,019,142
NET POSITION:
Beginning of year 18,768,855 838,478 15,493,527
End of year $ 18,126,260. _$ 195.676 _$ 25,512,669

171
191 of 240


--- page 192 ---
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Cash Flows
All Internal Service Funds
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Workers! Comprehensive
Compensation Dental Liability
Insurance Self-Insurance Benefits Insurance
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Cash received from customers $ 4,383,314 §$ 752,013 $ 44,520,910 §$ 2,793,000
Cash payments to suppliers for goods and services (1,949,815) (766,234) 39,249 (15,110,533)
Cash payments to employees for services (402,930) - (43,986,160) (149,250)
Cash received from others - - - 10,571,570
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 2,030,569 (14,221) 573,999 (1,895,213)
CASH FLOWS FROM NONCAPITAL
FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
Interfund borrowing (lending) 87,868 - - -
Repayment of interfund borrowing (lending) - - (87,868) -
Transfers in - - - 1,000,000
Transfers out : - - _
Net cash provided by (used in)
noncapital financing activities 87,868 - (87,868) 1,000,000
CASH FLOWS FROM CAPITAL AND
RELATED FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
Proceeds from sale of capital assets - - - -
Acquisition of capital assets, net - - - -
Net cash (used in) capital and
related financing activities - - - -
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
Investment income received 979,227 - - 71,605
Net cash (used in) investing activities 979,227 - - 71,605
Net change in cash and cash equivalents 3,097,664 (14,221) 486,131 (823,608)
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS:
Beginning of year 18,032,571 853,790 - 2,696,177
End of year $21,130,235 _$ 839,569 _ _$ 486,131 _$ 1,872,569
(Continued)
172

192 of 240


--- page 193 ---
City of San Mateo

Combining Statement of Cash Flows (Continued)
All Internal Service Funds

For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)

Workers'
Compensation

Insurance

TO NET CASH PROVIDED BY (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES:

Operating income (loss)
Adjustments to reconcile operating income (loss) to net
cash provided by (used in) operating activities:
Depreciation
Changes in operating assets and liabilities, and
deferred outflows and inflows of resources:
Accounts receivable, net
Accounts payable
Deposits payable
Claims payable
Total adjustments

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities

$

“$___2,030,569_

173

224,756

47,813

1,758,000
1,805,813

Dental

Self-Insurance

$ (63,526)

49,305

49,305
$ (14,221)

Comprehensive
Liability
Benefits Insurance
$ 530,060 $ 8,562,417
4,690 -
(8,651) 112,370
47,900 -
- (10,570,000)
43,939 (10,457,630)

$ 573,999 _$ (1,895,213)

(Continued)

193 of 240


--- page 194 ---
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:

Cash received from customers

Cash payments to suppliers for goods and services
Cash payments to employees for services

Cash received from others

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities

CASH FLOWS FROM NONCAPITAL
FINANCING ACTIVITIES:

Interfund borrowing (lending)

Repayment of interfund borrowing (lending)
Transfers in

Transfers out

Net cash provided by
noncapital financing activities

CASH FLOWS FROM CAPITAL AND
RELATED FINANCING ACTIVITIES:

Proceeds from sale of capital assets
Acquisition of capital assets, net

Net cash (used in) capital and
related financing activities

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
Investment income received

Net cash (used in) investing activities
Net change in cash and cash equivalents

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS:
Beginning of year

End of year

City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Cash Flows (Continued)
All Internal Service Funds
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

174

Vehicle & Fleet &
Equipment Building
Replacement Maintenance Total

$ 1,897,309 $ 5,413,226 $ 59,759,772

(1,685,361) (4,282,707) (23,755,401)
- (1,697,768) (46,236,108)
2,112 6,090 10,579,772
214,060 (561,159) 348,035
- - 87,868
- - (87,868)
410,000 - 1,410,000
(913,548) - (913,548)
(503,548) - 496,452
95,291 - 95,291
(2,219,724) (27,765) (2,247,489)
(2,124,433) (27,765) (2,152,198)
597,750 - 1,648,582
597,750 - 1,648,582
(1,816,171) (588,924) 340,871
12,994,930 1,023,811 35,601,279
$11,178,759 _$ 434,887 _$ 35,942,150
(Continued)

194 of 240


--- page 195 ---
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Cash Flows (Continued)
All Internal Service Funds
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

Vehicle & Fleet &
Equipment Building
Replacement Maintenance Total

RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)
TO NET CASH PROVIDED BY (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES:

Operating income (loss) $ (811,743) $ (642,802) §$ 7,799,162

Adjustments to reconcile operating income (loss) to net
cash provided by (used in) operating activities:

Depreciation 1,266,565 4,486 1,271,051
Changes in operating assets and liabilities, and
deferred outflows and inflows of resources:
Accounts receivable, net - 1,560 6,250
Accounts payable (240,762) 75,597 35,672
Deposits payable - - 47,900
Claims payable - - (8,812,000)
Total adjustments 1,025,803 81,643 (7,451,127)
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 214,060. _$ (561,159) _$ 348,035
(Concluded)
175

195 of 240


--- page 196 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

176
196 of 240


--- page 197 ---
Fiduciary Funds - Custodial Funds

San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department Custodial Fund, accounts for assets that the City is holding for the San
Mateo Consolidated Fire Department.

CFD 2008-1 Custodial Fund , accounts for assets that the City is holding for the Community Facilities District No. 2008-
01 for which the City is acting as an agent.

Other Custodial Fund, accounts for assets that the City is holding for other entities for which the City is acting as an
agent.

177
197 of 240


--- page 198 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

178
198 of 240


--- page 199 ---
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Fiduciary Net Position
Fiduciary Funds - Custodial Funds

June 30, 2024
San Mateo
Consolidated
Fire Department CFD 2008-1 Other Total
ASSETS
Cash and investments $ 71,087 $ 3,391,597 §$ 76,028 $ 3,538,712
Restricted cash and investments - 3,579,205 - 3,579,205
Total assets 71,087 6,970,802 76,028 7,117,917
LIABILITIES
Accounts payable 71,087 - 76,028 147,115
Total liabilities 71,087 - 76,028 147,115
NET POSITION
Restricted for:
Individuals, organizations, and other governments - 6,970,802 - 6,970,802
Total Net Position $ - $ 6,970,802 _$ - $ 6,970,802
179

199 of 240


--- page 200 ---
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Changes in Fiduciary Net Position
Fiduciary Funds - Custodial Funds
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

San Mateo
Consolidated
Fire Department CFD 2008-1 Other Total

ADDITIONS:
Fee collections for other governments $ 254,597 $ - §$ 165,537  $ 420,134
Special Assessments for other governments - 4,940,334 - 4,940,334
Investment income - 181,313 - 181,313

Total additions 254,597 5,121,647 165,537 5,541,781
DEDUCTIONS:
Administration - 16,750 57,607 74,357
Payments on conduit bonds - interest - 3,724,713 - 3,724,713
Payments on conduit bonds - principal 254,597 995,000 107,930 1,357,527

Total deductions 254,597 4,736,463 165,537 5,156,597

Changes in net position - 385,184 - 385,184
NET POSITION:
Beginning of year - 6,585,618 - 6,585,618
End of year $ - § 6,970,802 $ - § 6,970,802

180

200 of 240


--- page 201 ---
Fiduciary Funds - Private Purpose Trust Funds

RDA Obligation Retirement Fund (RORF), established in accordance with AB 1X 26, accounts for Redevelopment
Property Tax Trust Fund amounts received after January 31, 2012 to pay for Recognized Obligation Payment Schedule
(ROPS) items.

Successor Agency to RDA Merged Area Fund , a sub-fund of the RORF, accounts for assets and liabilities of the former
RDA merged project area which were transferred to the Successor Agency upon RDA dissolution to be used for ROPS
payments or redistributed to taxing entities.

Successor Agency to RDA Housing Fund, a sub-fund of the RORF, accounts for assets and liabilities of the former
RDA housing set aside transferred to the Successor Agency upon RDA dissolution to be used for ROPS payments or
redistributed to taxing entities.

181
201 of 240


--- page 202 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

182
202 of 240


--- page 203 ---
ASSETS
Cash and investments
Restricted cash and investments

Total assets

DEFERRED OUTFLOWS
OF RESOURCES
Deferred loss on refunding

Total deferred outflows of resources

LIABILITIES
Accounts payable
Interest payable
Long-term debt - due within one year
Long-term debt - due in more than one year

Total liabilities

NET POSITION
Held in trust for dissolution of RDA
Total Net Position (deficit)

City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Fiduciary Net Position
Fiduciary Funds - Private Purpose Trust Funds

June 30, 2024
RDA Successor Agency
Retirement to RDA Merged
Obligation Area
$ 5,175,557 $ -
- 1
5,175,557 1
- 113,013
- 113,013
- 3,188
- 710,209
- 4,270,000
- 33,100,992
- 38,084,389
5,175,557 (37,971,375)
$ 5,175,557 $ (37,971,375)
183

Successor Agency
to RDA
Housing

So

203 of 240

Total

5,175,557
1

5,175,558

113,013
113,013

3,188
710,209
4,270,000
33,100,992

38,084,389

(32,795,818)

(32,795,818)


--- page 204 ---
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Changes in Fiduciary Net Position
Fiduciary Funds - Private Purpose Trust Funds
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

RDA Successor Agency Successor Agency
Retirement to RDA Merged to RDA
Obligation Area Housing Total
ADDITIONS:
Investment income $ 1,084 $ - §$ - §$ 1,084
RDA property tax trust fund distribution 99,450 5,885,050 10,000 5,994,500
Total additions 100,534 5,885,050 10,000 5,995,584
DEDUCTIONS:
Administration - 13,188 10,000 23,188
Interest expense - 1,252,679 - 1,252,679
Total deductions - 1,265,867 10,000 1,275,867
Changes in net position 100,534 4,619,183 - 4,719,717
NET POSITION:
Beginning of year 5,075,023 (42,590,558) - (37,515,535)
End of year $ 5,175,557 $ (37,971,375) §$ - § (32,795,818)
184

204 of 240


--- page 205 ---
Schedules of Assessments and Investment Fees and Related Expenditures

South Bayfront Levee Improvement Project accounts for the revenues and expenditures of assessments imposed to
finance the South Bayfront Levee Improvement Project.

South Trunk Sewer Impact Fee accounts for revenue and expenditures related to the development impact fee for the
South Trunk area sewer improvements. The fee is imposed on all development and redevelopment served by the South
Trunk line.

Child Care Development Impact Fee accounts for revenues and expenditures related to the child care development fee
to fund child care facilities necessitated by commercial development.

Tree Impact Fee accounts for revenues and expenditures related to the tree replacement fee established on all
development requiring approval of planning application, except for single-family dwelling design review applications,
for the removal of existing trees on development sites.

Cable Television Impact Fee accounts for revenues and expenditures related to the cable television impact fee to fund
public access community television.

185
205 of 240


--- page 206 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

186
206 of 240


--- page 207 ---
City of San Mateo
General Capital Projects Fund
Schedule of Assessments and Impact Fees and Related Expenditures
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024

South
Bayfront Total
Levee South Child Care Cable Assessments
Improvement Trunk Sewer Development Tree Television and Impact
Project Impact Fee Impact Fee Impact Fee Impact Fee Fees
REVENUES:
Assessments $ 537,912 $ - § - § - §$ - § 537,912
Impact fees - 771,455 9,548 201,997 91,216 1,074,216
Interest income - 38,699 71,251 7,426 40,413 157,789
Total revenues 537,912 810,154 80,799 209,423 131,629 1,769,917
EXPENDITURES:
Capital outlay 7,733 - 430,000 171,986 36,850 646,569
Debt service 385,754 - - - - 385,754
Total expenditures 393,487 - 430,000 171,986 36,850 1,032,323
UNEXPENDED BALANCES:
Beginning of year 2,300,064 55,469 2,211,422 1,094,906 1,257,627 6,919,488
End of year $ 2,444,489 § 865,623 $ 1,862,221 $ 1,132,343 $ 1,352,406 $ 7,657,082

187
207 of 240


--- page 208 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

188
208 of 240


--- page 209 ---
STATISTICAL SECTION

189
209 of 240


--- page 210 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

190
210 of 240


--- page 211 ---
STATISTICAL SECTION (Unaudited)

This part of the City of San Mateo's Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports presents detailed information as a context
for understanding what the information in the financial statements, note disclosures, and required supplementary
information says about the City's overall financial condition.

Contents Page

Financial Trends 192
These schedules contain trend information to help the reader understand how the City's financial
performance and well-being have changed over time.

Revenue Capacity 204
These schedules contain information to help the reader assess the City's most significant local revenues
source: property tax

Debt Capacity 210
These schedules present information to help the reader assess the affordability of the City's current levels
of outstanding debt and the City's ability to issue additional debt in the future.

Demographic and Economic Information 215
These schedules offer demographic and economic indicators to help the reader understand the
environment within which the city's financial activities take place.

Operating Information 216
These schedules contain service and infrastructure data to help the reader to understand how the
information in the City's financial reports relates to the services the city provides and the activities it
performs.

191
211 of 240


--- page 212 ---
Governmental Activities
Net investment in capital assets
Restricted
Unrestricted (deficit)

Total Governmental Activities Net Position

Business-Type Activities
Net investment in capital assets
Restricted
Unrestricted (deficit)

Total Business-Type Activities Net Position

Primary Government
Net investment in capital assets
Restricted
Unrestricted (deficit)

Total Primary Government Net Position

Notes:

(1) Significant variance in restricted and unrestricted net position was due to implementation of GASB 65, 68 and 71 in FY2015

City of San Mateo
Net Position by Component
Last Ten Fiscal Years
(accrual basis of accounting)

2015“)

338,597,493
35,940,430
(56,568,094)
317,969,829

78,438,576
11,056,422
10,218,009

99,713,007

417,036,069
46,996,852
(46,350,085)
417,682,836

FISCAL YEAR
2016 2017

348,551,145 $ 361,295,211
42,628,946 43,004,559
(25,485,083) (16,647,454)
365,695,008 $ 387,652,316

83,893,024 $ 112,410,305
9,457,948 17,976,147
20,791,916 (7,096,918)
114,142,888 $ 123,289,534

432,444,169 $ 473,705,516
52,086,894 60,980,706
(4,693,167) (23,744,372)
479,837,896 $ 510,941,850

(2) Unrestricted net position included adjustment to reflect implementation of GASB 75 in FY2018

Source: City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports

192

2018

373,263,037 $
56,180,410

(27,694,719)

401,748,728 $

136,901,535 $
3,019,163
(2,674,687)

137,246,011 $

510,164,572 $
59,199,573
(30,369,406)

538,994,739 $

212 of 240

2019

374,808,638
56,993,128
(16,582,840)
415,218,926

137,297,898
1,127,518
24,223,141
162,648,557

512,106,536
58,120,646
7,640,301
577,867,483


--- page 213 ---
Governmental Activities
Net investment in capital assets
Restricted
Unrestricted (deficit)

Total Governmental Activities Net Position

Business-Type Activities
Net investment in capital assets
Restricted
Unrestricted (deficit)

Total Business-Type Activities Net Position

Primary Government
Net investment in capital assets
Restricted
Unrestricted (deficit)

Total Primary Government Net Position

Notes:

City of San Mateo

Net Position by Component (Continued)
Last Ten Fiscal Years

(accrual basis of accounting)

2020

$ 380,800,232
58,615,106
(22,039,326)

$ 417,376,012

$ 154,095,718
1,143,604
39,117,768

$ 194,357,090

$ 534,895,950
59,758,710
17,078,442

$ 611,733,102

2021

392,070,528
38,577,326
(11,392,141)
419,255,713

168,133,572
1,143,852
58,834,359
228,111,783

560,204,100
39,721,178
47,442,218

647,367,496

(1) Unrestricted net position included adjustment to reflect implementation of GASB 96 in FY2023

(2) Unrestricted net position included adjustment to reflect implementation of GASB 75 in FY2018

Source: City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports

193

FISCAL YEAR
2022

$ 397,780,546
45,323,758
6,233,558

$ 449,337,862

$ 135,235,423

33,375,069
109,975,918

$ 278,586,410

$ 533,015,969

78,698,827
116,209,476

$ 727,924,272

2023

399,733,773 $
108,343,099
(56,670,151)
451,406,721 $

79,620,512 §
92,240,461
164,051,166

335,912,139 $

479,354,285 $
200,583,560
107,381,015

787,318,860 $

213 of 240

2024

412,852,193
111,215,112
(53,862,081)
470,205,224

154,003,672
51,978,422
184,575,261

390,557,355

566,855,865
163,193,534
130,713,180

860,762,579


--- page 214 ---
Expenses
Governmental activities:
General government
Community development
Public safety
Public works
Parks and recreation
Golf
Library
Interest and fiscal charges
Total governmental activities expenses
Business-type activities:
Sewer
Golf
Total business-type activities expenses

Total primary government expenses

Program Revenues
Governmental activities:
Charges for Services:
General government
Community development
Public safety
Public works
Parks and recreation
Golf
Library
Operating Grants and Contributions
Capital Grants and Contributions
Total governmental activities program revenues
Business-type activities:
Charges for Services:
Sewer
Golf
Capital Grants and Contributions
Total business-type activities program revenues
Total primary government program revenues
Net (Expense)/Revenue
Governmental activities
Business-type activities

Total primary government net expense

$

City of San Mateo
Changes in Net Position
Last Ten Fiscal Years

2015

13,531,819 $
11,520,058
54,499,943
17,572,481
14,604,719
7,456,042
1,687,938
120,873,000

25,394,787

2,599,156

27,993,943
148,866,943 $

7,746,426 §$
11,841,340
4,748,609
3,380,143
3,917,392
366,424
4,659,218
5,932,115

42,591,667

32,202,568
2,179,638
1,418,940

35,801,146

78,392,813 $

(78,281,333) $
7,807,203
(70,474,130) $

Source: City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports

194

(accrual basis of accounting)

FISCAL YEAR
2016 2017
13,408,222 $ 15,288,834 $
8,615,056 9,218,215
56,518,491 66,098,015
19,194,348 19,454,397
14,715,076 17,688,663
7,481,649 8,640,943
1,563,149 1,603,120
121,495,991 137,992,187
29,446,279 27,650,895
2,925,638 2,699,895
32,371,917 30,350,790

153,867,908 _$

8,864,516 §$
13,040,363
4,963,005
3,204,712
4,026,981
376,099
4,920,003
17,519,113

56,914,792

31,349,390
2,259,273
9,648,484

43,257,147

100,171,939  $

(64,581,199) $
10,885,230
(53,695,969) $

168,342,977 $

4,460,496 $
15,504,626
5,460,041
7,078,959
5,733,587
384,442
4,855,791
7,404,767

50,882,709

31,790,037
2,155,822
4,559,627

38,505,486

89,388,195 §$

(87,109,478) $
8,154,696
(78,954,782) $

2018 2019
16,253,149 $ 22,520,951
8,968,176 10,689,333
78,040,802 72,388,649
22,900,784 25,294,822
17,723,370 18,589,445
- 2,413,326
8,409,588 9,088,444
1,282,632 1,545,181
153,578,501 162,530,151
28,541,139 30,979,524
3,119,828 -
31,660,967 30,979,524
185,239,468 $ 193,509,675
4,761,038 $ 4,850,552
18,647,276 11,962,685
5,859,462 4,873,368
8,816,371 7,908,636
4,416,286 4,427,073
- 2,169,365

425,676 418,247
6,527,822 7,091,483
12,254,621 11,235,278
61,708,552 54,936,687
41,737,548 51,981,922
2,361,164 -
2,628,892 1,231,712
46,727,604 53,213,634
108,436,156 $ 108,150,321

(91,869,949) $ (107,593,464)
15,066,637 22,234,110
(76,803,312) $ (85,359,354)

214 of 240


--- page 215 ---
Expenses
Governmental activities:
General government
Community development
Public safety
Public works
Parks and recreation
Golf
Library
Interest and fiscal charges
Total governmental activities expenses
Business-type activities:
Sewer
Golf
Total business-type activities expenses

Total primary government expenses

Program Revenues
Governmental activities:
Charges for Services:
General government
Community development
Public safety
Public works
Parks and recreation
Golf
Library
Operating Grants and Contributions
Capital Grants and Contributions
Total governmental activities program revenues
Business-type activities:
Charges for Services:
Sewer
Golf
Capital Grants and Contributions
Total business-type activities program revenues
Total primary government program revenues
Net (Expense)/Revenue
Governmental activities
Business-type activities

Total primary government net expense

City of San Mateo

Changes in Net Position (Continued)

Last Ten Fiscal Years

(accrual basis of accounting)

2020 2021
$ 24,844,817 $ 22,566,708
11,079,458 11,362,295
84,968,332 88,274,410
26,353,672 22,560,152
18,827,857 17,581,661
2,363,389 2,406,028
9,546,338 8,797,338
1,967,739 2,674,930
179,951,602 176,223,522
39,159,040 40,969,271
39,159,040 40,969,271

$ 219,110,642 $ 217,192,793

$ 4,196,601 $ 6,305,379
11,367,968 11,277,683
6,334,734 2,402,026
10,140,356 7,117,981
3,158,517 1,010,881
2,206,781 3,129,139
395,001 270,043
7,613,730 19,005,126
10,814,961 9,354,286
56,228,649 59,872,544
58,741,767 67,962,290
7,290,894 5,931,349
66,032,661 73,893,639

$ 122,261,310 $ 133,766,183

$ (123,722,953)
26,873,621
$ (96,849,332) $

$ (116,350,978)
32,924,368
(83,426,610)

Source: City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports

195

FISCAL YEAR
2022

$ 23,459,894
20,402,608
66,993,033
21,712,677
16,497,215

2,368,719
8,678,548
2,447,923
162,560,617

41,868,215
41,868,215
$ 204,428,832

$ 7,754,336
10,420,500
2,179,473
8,860,490
2,921,700
3,529,967
314,628
16,397,540
9,085,257

61,463,891

71,491,119

21,355,870
92,846,989
$ 154,310,880

$ (101,096,726)
50,978,774
$ (50,117,952)

2023

$ 28,633,018 $

16,765,437
94,267,213
28,996,164
20,923,090
2,505,214
9,421,539
2,494,361
204,006,036

41,833,626
41,833,626
$ 245,839,662 $

$ 6,404,657 $

13,320,594
3,166,616
7,540,418
3,512,400
3,105,744
318,769
9,841,723
5,390,848

52,601,769

77,987,677

15,487,045
93,474,722
$ 146,076,491 $

$ (151,404,267)

51,641,096
$ (99,763,171) $

215 of 240

2024

27,773,248
14,269,937
92,903,796
31,088,776
24,598,631
10,598,001
2,407,407
203,639,796

45,059,021
45,059,021
248,698,817

6,755,941
12,636,122
4,132,856
8,506,152
7,662,922
381,127
11,003,457
13,247,974

64,326,551

81,333,394

8,179,541
89,512,935
153,839,486

$ (139,313,245)

44,453,914
(94,859,331)


--- page 216 ---
City of San Mateo

Changes in Net Position (Continued)
Last Ten Fiscal Years

(accrual basis of accounting)

2015
General Revenues and Other Changes in Net Position
Government activities:
Taxes
Property taxes $ 45,514,243
Sales taxes 26,406,209
Property transfer tax 10,636,846
Other taxes 13,764,540
Franchise taxes 3,049,847
Motor vehicle taxes 61,024
Investment income (loss) 1,167,612
Other - GASB 68 Adjustment -
Other revenues -
Transfers (2,501,852)
Special Item: Transfer of properties from
Successor Agency -
Special Item: Transfer of fire activities -
Total Governmental activities: 98,098,469
Business-type activities:
Investment income 250,398
Gain (Loss) on sale of capital assets -
Miscellaneous revenues -
Transfers 2,501,852
Total business-type activities 2,752,250
Total primary government $ 100,850,719
Change in Net Position
Governmental activities $ 19,817,136
Business-type activities 10,559,453
Total primary government $ 30,376,589

Source: City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports

$

196

2016

49,821,722
27,458,762
9,894,291
14,503,661
3,143,082
416,222
2,469,425
344,425

(3,020,196)

7,274,984

112,306,378

524,455

3,020,196
3,544,651
115,851,029

47,725,179
14,429,881
62,155,060

FISCAL YEAR

$

$

$

$

2017

52,989,559
26,001,431
12,179,016
14,536,828
3,142,369
55,990
978,899

32,694

(850,000)

109,066,786

141,950

850,000
991,950
110,058,736

21,957,308
9,146,646
31,103,954

$

2018

58,137,331 $
26,313,958
11,778,074
14,777,396
3,208,096
64,442
1,521,257
66,005
(525,000)

115,341,559

189,713

525,000
714,713
116,056,272 $

23,471,610 $
15,781,350
39,252,960 $

216 of 240

2019

63,899,034
28,606,235
13,918,129
14,947,968

3,134,906

7,180,752

42,081
(1,788,676)

(8,876,767)
121,063,662

1,379,769

1,788,676
3,168,445
124,232,107

13,470,198
25,402,555
38,872,753


--- page 217 ---
General Revenues and Other Changes in Net Position

Government activities:
Taxes
Property taxes
Sales taxes
Property transfer tax
Other taxes
Franchise taxes
Motor vehicle taxes
Investment income (loss)

Other - GASB 68 Adjustment

Other revenues
Transfers

Special Item: Transfer of properties from

Successor Agency

Special Item: Transfer of fire activities

Total Governmental activities:

Business-type activities:
Investment income

Gain (Loss) on sale of capital assets

Miscellaneous revenues
Transfers
Total business-type activities

Total primary government

Change in Net Position
Governmental activities
Business-type activities

Total primary government

City of San Mateo

Last Ten Fiscal Years

2020 2021

67,106,048 $ 66,631,563

26,958,595 27,948,874
9,137,370 11,783,952
11,173;135 7,439,757
3,170,550 3,033,639
7,259,659 488,757
64,312 904,137
124,869,669 118,230,679
5,845,282 851,242

- (22,292)
- 1,375
5,845,282 830,325

130,714,951 $ 119,061,004

1,146,716 $ 118,230,679
32,718,903 830,325
33,865,619 $ 119,061,004

Source: City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports

197

Changes in Net Position (Continued)

(accrual basis of accounting)

FISCAL YEAR
2022

$ 74,796,572 $
33,408,980
14,344,715
11,445,378
3,117,140
(6,317,294)

383,384

131,178,875

(602,477)
98,330

(504,147)
$ 130,674,728 $

$ 30,082,149 $
50,474,627
$ 80,556,776 $

2023 2024

83,298,878 $ 81,331,244

34,283,362 32,380,449
7,418,099 8,634,762
16,356,131 14,976,125
3,627,304 3,403,374
4,554,367 15,375,641
2,140,985 2,010,153
1,794,000 -
153,473,126 158,111,748
7,176,108 9,342,754
(101,329) -
403,854 848,548
(1,794,000) -
5,684,633 10,191,302

159,157,759 $ 168,303,050

2,068,859 $ 18,798,503
57,325,729 54,645,216
59,394,588 $ 73,443,719

217 of 240


--- page 218 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

198
218 of 240


--- page 219 ---
City of San Mateo
Governmental Activities Tax Revenues By Source
Last Ten Fiscal Years
(accrual basis of accounting)

Property

Fiscal Property Sales Transfer Franchise Other

Year Tax Tax Tax Tax Taxes Total

2015 $ 45,514,243 $ 26,406,209 $ 10,636,846 $ 3,049,847 $ 13,825,564 $ 99,432,709
2016 49,821,722 27,458,762 9,894,291 3,143,082 14,919,883 105,237,740
2017 52,989,559 26,001,431 12,179,016 3,142,369 14,592,818 108,905,193
2018 58,137,331 26,313,958 11,778,074 3,208,096 14,841,838 114,279,297
2019 63,899,034 28,606,235 13,918,129 3,134,906 14,947,968 124,506,272
2020 67,106,048 26,958,595 9,137,370 3,170,550 11,173,135 117,545,698
2021 66,631,563 27,948,874 11,783,952 3,033,639 7,439,757 116,837,785
2022 74,796,572 33,408,980 14,344,715 3,117,140 11,445,378 137,112,785
2023 83,298,878 34,283,362 7,418,099 3,627,304 16,356,131 144,983,774
2024 81,331,244 32,380,449 8,634,762 3,403,374 14,976,125 140,725,954

Source: City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports

199
219 of 240


--- page 220 ---
General Fund
Nonspendable fund balance
Restricted fund balance
Committed fund balance
Assigned fund balance
Unassigned fund balance

Total General Fund

All Other Governmental Funds
Nonspendable fund balance
Restricted fund balance
Committed fund balance
Assigned fund balance
Unassigned fund balance (deficit)

Total all other Governmental Funds

City of San Mateo

Fund Balances of Governmental Funds

Last Ten Fiscal Years

(modified accrual basis of accounting)

2015
$ 133,030
696,064
46,814,928
$ 47,644,022
$ -
36,477,074
51,111,814
$ 87,588,888

Source: City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports

200

2016

93,968

653,902
57,850,140

58,598,010

42,628,946
63,490,793

106,119,739

FISCAL YEAR
2017

$ 146,668

1,151,152

65,807,692

$ 67,105,512

$ 2

42,468,316

66,261,696

$ 108,730,012

2018

1,365,781 $
1,310,590
983,063
71,844,796

75,504,230 $

4,206 §$
54,997,971
66,085,830

121,088,007 _$

220 of 240

2019

1,138,335
2,382,262
708,521
83,958,171

88,187,289

55,140,874
70,357,550

125,498,424


--- page 221 ---
General Fund
Nonspendable fund balance
Restricted fund balance
Committed fund balance
Assigned fund balance
Unassigned fund balance

Total General Fund

All Other Governmental Funds

City of San Mateo
Fund Balances of Governmental Funds (Continued)
Last Ten Fiscal Years
(modified accrual basis of accounting)

FISCAL YEAR
2020 2021 2022
$ 801,607 $ 329,193 $ 357,245 §$
1,370,873 1,370,873 16,294,331
670,609 - 1,097,978
82,719,189 90,258,189 93,702,456

$ 85,562,278 $ 91,958,255 $ 111,452,010 $

Nonspendable fund balance $ - $ - §$ 9,000 $
Restricted fund balance 107,881,837 71,611,963 77,144,719
Committed fund balance 75,420,851 93,093,835 65,881,489
Assigned fund balance - - -
Unassigned fund balance (deficit) - (586,982) (1,401,910)

Total all other Governmental Funds

$ 183,302,688 $ 164,118,816 $ 141,633,298 $

Source: City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports

201

2023

284,396
599,425

9,304,494
107,690,904

117,879,219

128,358,271

17,200,801

145,559,072

221 of 240

$

2024

304,759
550,000

11,443,226
105,659,356

117,957,341

131,583,602

26,595,669

158,179,271


--- page 222 ---
City of San Mateo
Changes in Fund Balances of Governmental Funds
Last Ten Fiscal Years
(modified accrual basis of accounting)

—SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSFISCAL YEAR
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019

Revenues:
Property taxes $ 45,514,243 $ 49,821,722 $ 52,989,555 $ 58,137,331 $ 63,899,035
Sales taxes 26,406,209 27,458,762 26,001,428 26,313,958 28,606,235
Other taxes 27,492,257 27,947,256 29,904,204 29,818,008 32,051,159
Licenses, building and other permits 10,993,854 12,481,519 13,986,765 16,829,698 9,820,297
Fines, forfeitures and Penalties 1,797,820 1,608,517 2,347,508 1,983,069 2,361,048
Intergovernmental revenues 9,000,823 10,139,448 10,514,086 10,081,168 13,900,475
Charges for services 9,822,219 11,642,713 10,994,505 11,865,030 13,006,381
Investment income (loss) 939,463 2,016,000 436,583 1,274,997 6,257,565
Indirect and in-lieu fees - - - - 1,317,331
Assessment and garbage collection surcharge 3,128,070 8,000,287 2,405,534 2,591,689 1,887,074
Parking meter and lease revenue 2,722,471 2,881,193 3,113,739 5,334,641 4,320,920
Impact fees 3,260,222 4,274,248 3,747,065 4,021,226 1,754,337
Capital contributions - - - 375,000 750,000
Other revenues 2,402,206 3,438,927 3,751,388 3,851,650 5,140,943
Total revenues 143,479,857 161,710,592 160,192,360 172,477,465 185,072,800
Expenditures:
General government 12,563,127 13,389,976 11,823,438 12,631,562 13,248,604
Community development 7,304,546 7,283,445 8,382,090 8,968,166 9,870,728
Public safety 53,016,349 58,605,898 63,623,621 68,708,919 63,971,508
Public works 6,103,576 7,128,676 8,585,107 10,030,818 10,525,838
Parks and recreation 12,759,601 13,190,936 14,666,422 14,967,718 15,563,445
Golf - - - - 2,152,691
Library 5,744,931 6,099,700 6,499,489 6,721,084 7,421,137
Non-departmental 1,280,000 1,250,000 2,891,155 3,001,379 5,726,983
Capital outlay 18,045,935 20,745,215 28,829,906 18,367,591 22,865,146
Debt service:

Principal 1,802,440 1,939,637 2,019,637 7,842,077 2,128,016

Interest and fiscal charges 1,761,775 1,656,297 1,702,963 1,705,078 1,624,137

Cost of issuance - - - - -
Total expenditures 120,382,280 131,289,780 149,023,828 152,944,392 155,098,233
Excess of revenues

over (under) expenditures 23,097,577 30,420,812 11,168,532 19,533,073 29,974,567
Other Financing Sources (Uses):
Proceeds from debt issuance - - - - -
Premium - - - - -
Debt refunding - payment to escrow - - - - -
Proceeds from loans 265,820 14,027 746,896 2,157,843 -
Proceeds from sale of capital assets - - - - -
Inception of subscription liability - - - - -
Transfers in 11,402,970 13,083,222 14,117,848 20,890,354 12,938,471
Transfers out (13,729,596) (14,033,222) (14,915,501) (21,824,557) (12,995,487)
Total other financing sources (uses) (2,060,806) (935,973) (50,757) 1,223,640 (57,016)
Special Item: Transfer of fire activities - - - - (12,824,075)
Net change in fund balances $ 21,036,771 $ 29,484,839 §$ 11,117,775 $ 20,756,713 $ 17,093,476
Debt Service as a percentage of noncapital expenditures
(1) 3.42% 3.11% 3.01% 6.89% 2.82%

Notes:

(1) Non-capital expenditures is the difference between total expenditures and capital outlay reported on Government-wide Statement of Activities.

Source: City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports

202
222 of 240


--- page 223 ---
Revenues:

Property taxes

Sales taxes

Other taxes

Licenses, building and other permits
Fines, forfeitures and Penalties
Intergovernmental revenues
Charges for services

Investment income (loss)

Indirect and in-lieu fees

Assessment and garbage collection surcharge
Parking meter and lease revenue
Impact fees

Capital contributions

Other revenues

Total revenues

Expenditures:
General government
Community development
Public safety
Public works
Parks and recreation
Golf
Library
Non-departmental
Capital outlay
Debt service:
Principal
Interest and fiscal charges
Cost of issuance
Total expenditures

Excess of revenues
over (under) expenditures

Other Financing Sources (Uses):
Proceeds from debt issuance
Premium

Debt refunding - payment to escrow
Proceeds from loans

Proceeds from sale of capital assets
Inception of subscription liability
Transfers in

Transfers out

Total other financing sources (uses)

Special Item: Transfer of fire activities

Net change in fund balances

City of San Mateo
Changes in Fund Balances of Governmental Funds (Continued)

Last Ten Fiscal Years
(modified accrual basis of accounting)

2020

$ 67,106,048 $
26,958,596
23,481,055
8,511,610
1,486,473
13,455,252
12,140,217
6,451,349
710,540
1,952,167
5,960,255
4,471,088
750,000
4,440,498
177,875,148

14,127,919
9,903,606
69,607,595
11,194,667
15,177,801
2,210,391
7,260,024
6,535,562
30,549,652

2,742,918
1,554,488
380,166
171,244,789

6,630,359

47,595,599
8,068,164
(4,006,995)

713,154

21,124,557
(24,945,585)
48,548,894

$ 55,179,253 $

Debt Service as a percentage of noncapital expenditures

(1)

Notes:

(1) Non-capital expenditures is the difference between total expenditures and capital outlay reported on Government-wide Statement of Activities.

2.98%

Source: City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports

203

2021

66,631,563 $
27,948,874
22,257,348
8,123,453
2,247,808
19,888,509
11,638,776
411,387
6,268,685
2,023,435
1,741,192
750,000
6,513,514
176,444,544

14,777,676
10,450,200
74,041,289
10,555,345
14,341,093
2,406,028
7,063,780
7,357,090
42,765,863

3,411,945
3,412,560

190,582,869

(14,138,325)

1,525,675

21,438,281
(21,613,526)
1,350,430

(12,787,895) $

4.58%

FISCAL YEAR
2022

74,796,572
33,408,980
28,907,233

6,528,252
2,201,172
23,286,197
16,758,036
(5,494,064)
2,248,303
5,807,293
613,890
750,000
5,030,830
194,842,694

14,824,775
20,931,630
76,979,872
11,410,240
16,260,067
2,368,719
7,645,003
8,244,606
31,945,962

4,691,724
2,950,846

198,253,444

(3,410,750)

14,919,215
(14,500,228)
418,987

(2,991,763)

4.90%

2023

83,298,878 $
34,283,362
27,140,943
8,169,947
2,909,055
14,501,361
19,016,452
3,403,037
2,702,720
3,424,971
147,064
750,461
4,622,308
204,370,559

14,095,593
14,508,302
81,196,170
13,130,985
17,175,614
2,505,214
7,836,173
9,662,288
29,334,514

5,668,626
2,869,645

197,983,124

6,387,435

15,066
2,862,579
23,783,665

(22,695,762)
3,965,548

10,352,983 $

5.14%

223 of 240

2024

81,331,244
32,380,449
26,771,455
7,345,890
3,242,892
13,522,487
21,178,777
13,744,895
2,897,760
3,199,677
9,764,955
5,340,645
220,721,126

15,524,365
13,862,340
87,526,868
15,607,016
21,136,909

8,619,895

9,968,106
27,615,436

5,956,172
2,806,831

208,623,938

12,097,188

21,354
1,076,231
31,096,445

(31,592,897)
601,133

12,698,321

4.85%


--- page 224 ---
Fiscal
Year
End

2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024

Notes:

$

Residential
Property

15,233,601
16,649,492
17,909,339
19,417,451
20,830,053
22,332,343
23,744,131
24,687,992
26,725,006

28,087,540

Commercial
Property

$ 3,228,752
3,454,897
3,823,284
4,213,927
4,927,490
5,423,015
6,182,033
6,260,358
6,912,012

7,379,284

Industrial

$

Property
199,821
176,544
180,072
187,130
197,026
213,692
230,600
237,818
250,071
274,663

(amount expressed in thousands)

City of San Mateo

Assessed Value and Estimated Actual Value of Taxable Property
Last Ten Fiscal Years

Other

Property (1)

$

1) Other property includes state unitary value of $3,294,887.

291,470
324,490
574,686
598,899
547,948
532,710
591,123
712,697
639,168
670,178

Unsecured

$

Property
724,375
760,591
738,320
710,584
774,755
847,426
796,824
733,747
747,059
783,613

Less Tax-
Exempt
Property

$ 309,015
348,736
591,188
587,446
670,274
707,556
744,934
750,172
801,890
843,621

Assessed Value

$

Taxable

19,369,004
21,017,279
22,634,512
24,540,546
26,606,997
28,641,629
30,799,777
31,882,440
34,471,426
36,351,657

Total

Estimated

Direct Tax Actual Value

Rate (2)

GB)

0.18% $ 32,278,244

0.18%
0.18%
0.18%
0.18%
0.18%
0.18%
0.18%
0.18%

0.18%

2) Total direct tax rate is the city share of the 1% Proposition 13 tax only for TRA 12-001. Rates are not adjusted for ERAF.

40,006,118
44,026,273
48,683,633
54,298,177
55,884,822
51,914,472
62,404,646
67,076,627

64,202,152

Factor of
Taxable

Assessed
Value (3)

1.6665
1.9035
1.9451
1.9838
2.0407
1.9512
1.6855
1.9573
1.9459

1.7661

3) Estimated Actual Value is derived from a series of calculations comparing median assessed values from 1940 to current median sale prices. Based on these
calculations a multiplier value was extrapolated and applied to current assessed values.

Source: County Assessor data,Source: MuniServices, LLC / Avenu Insights & Analytics

204

224 of 240


--- page 225 ---
City of San Mateo
Direct and Overlapping Property Tax Rates
Last Ten Fiscal Years
(rate expressed in percentage)

FISCAL YEAR
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
Basic City and County Levy
CITY OF SAN MATEO 0.1761 0.1761 0.1761 0.1761 0.1761 0.1761 0.1761 0.1761 0.1761 0.1761
OTHER SAN MATEO
COUNTY AGENCIES 0.8239 0.8239 0.8239 0.8239 0.8239 0.8239 0.8239 0.8239 0.8239 0.8239
TOTAL 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000
Override Assessments

SM CTY DEBT-LIB. PROJECT 0.0105 0.0102 0.0090 0.0084 0.0077 0.0071 0.0067 0.0064 0.0060 0.0057
SM FOSTER CITY SERIES Q - - - - - - 0.0022 0.0035 0.0015 0.0159

SM FC EL BD REFUND SER - - - - - - - - - -

SM FOSTER CITY 2005 REF 0.0185 0.0197 0.0156 0.0162 0.0170 0.0042 - - - -

SM FC 2012 GO REF Ser 0 0.0071 0.0069 0.0060 0.0056 0.0052 0.0050 - - - -

SM FC GO BOND 08 ELEC 0.0132 0.0082 0.0154 0.0151 0.0146 0.0140 0.0073 0.0053 0.0086 -

SM FC GO BOND 2014 - 0.0006 0.0002 0.0003 0.0003 0.0011 0.0013 0.0014 0.0013 -
SM FC GO BOND 2015 - 0.0048 0.0174 0.0170 0.0159 0.0194 0.0151 0.0173 0.0159 0.0007
SM FC GO BOND ELECT 202 - - - - - - - - - 0.0285
SM FC GO BD 2020 REFUND - - - - - - 0.0203 0.0390 0.0340 0.0114
SAN MATEO HIGH 2017 GO - - - - 0.0020 0.0016 0.0015 0.0014 0.0020 0.0019
SAN MATEO HIGH BD SER 2 0.0072 0.0064 0.0066 0.0065 0.0063 0.0063 0.0021 - 0.0049 0.0036
SAN MATEO UN HIGH BND S 0.0108 0.0063 0.0063 0.0063 0.0047 0.0036 0.0061 0.0061 0.0022 0.0022
SAN MATEO HIGH RFND. SER - - - - - - 0.0044 0.0247 0.0038 0.0033
SAN MATEO HIGH 2012 GO 0.0078 0.0088 0.0106 0.0105 0.0115 0.0109 0.0019 0.0046 0.0026 0.0025
SAN MATEO HIGH 2016 GO - - - 0.0025 0.0020 0.0018 0.0061 0.0036 0.0069 0.0096
SAN MATEO HIGH 2019 GO - - - - - - 0.0025 0.0023 0.0020 0.0019
SAN MATEO HIGH 2019 REF - - - - - - 0.0020 0.0061 0.0015 0.0014
SAN MATEO HIGH 2022 GO - - - - - - - - 0.0021 0.0017
SM JR COLLEGE BD 2002 - 0.0012 0.0019 0.0019 0.0018 0.0019 0.0019 0.0020 0.0016 0.0017
SM JR COLL BOND SER 200 0.0002 - - - - - 0.0018 0.0019 0.0017 0.0016
SM JR COLL BOND 2001 SE 0.0009 0.0008 0.0006 0.0007 0.0007 —-0.0007 0.0007 0.0007 0.0006 0.0007
SM JR COLL BOND 2006 SE 0.0042 0.0039 0.0037 0.0036 0.0035 0.0033 0.0032 0.0031 0.0026 0.0021
SM JR COLL BOND 2014 - - 0.0029 0.0027 0.0024 0.0018 0.0017 - 0.0003 0.0012
SM JR COLL BOND 2015 - - 0.0071 0.0066 0.0012 0.0011 0.0012 - 0.0002 0.0002
SAN MATEO COMM COLL 200 0.0069 0.0036 0.0085 0.0080 0.0079 —- 0.0042 0.0037 0.0040 0.0039 0.0040
SAN MATEO HIGH ELEC 0.0217 0.0251 0.0180 0.0175 0.0142 0.0143 0.0183 - 0.0224 0.0195

SM JR COLL BOND REF 201 0.0068 0.0155 - - - - 0.0025 0.0019 - -
SAN MATEO COMM COLL - - - - - 0.0035 - 0.0043 0.0035 0.0033
SM JR COLL ELECT 2014 - - - - - 0.0088 0.0036 0.0039 0.0040 0.0035
SM JR COLL 2018 REF BOND - - - - - 0.0007 0.0005 0.0005 0.0005 0.0004
SM JR COLL 2019 REF BOND - - - - - 0.0006 0.0005 0.0004 0.0004 0.0003
TOTAL 0.1158 0.1220 0.1298 0.1294 0.1189 0.1159 0.1191 0.1444 0.1370 0.1288
TOTAL TAX RATE 1.1158 1.1220 1.1298 1.1294 1.1189 1.1159 1.1191 1.1444 1.1370 1.1288

Sources: (1) City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports
(2) County Auditor/Controller data, MuniServices, LLC / Avenu Insights & Analytics

205
225 of 240


--- page 226 ---
Current Year and Nine Years Ago

Taxpayer

Bay Meadows Station Investors LLC
Essex Portfolio LP

HSC Property Owner LLC

Franklin Templeton Corp Svcs Inc
2000 Sierra Point Parkway LLC
1825 SG Corporation

HG Clearview Owner LLC

ASN Bay Meadows | LLC & Bay Meadows II LLC
Rakuten CHW LLC

Hospitality Investment LLC Lessee
Park Place Holdco LLC

Sobrato Interests 3

BRE Properties Inc

Bohannon Dev Co

Peninsula Office Park

Essex Hillsdale Garden Apts

DW Bridgepointe LLC

SPK San Mateo Baycenter LLC

Total Top 10 Taxpayers

Total Taxable Value $

Source: MuniServices, LLC / Avenu Insights & Analytics

City of San Mateo
Principal Property Taxpayers

2024

Taxable

Value Rank

1,003,030,576
617,933,473
592,926,000
471,210,306
343,104,674
288,422,365
237,352,594
231,897,884
200,339,106
188,690,978

4,174,907,956

36,351,657,524

206

CO wmAnN Dn FW YN

—
o

Percent of
Total City
Taxable
Value

2.76%
1.70%
1.63%
1.30%
0.94%
0.79%
0.65%
0.64%
0.55%
0.52%

11.48%

100.00%

$

2015

Taxable
Value Rank

263,049,333 1

196,730,033 2

110,400,000
154,644,275
55,524,909
177,471,548
131,316,433
107,889,425
98,299,639
96,178,493 10

Co mOmANI DHA HW

1,391,504,088

19,369,003,662

226 of 240

Percent of
Total City
Taxable
Value

1.36%

1.02%

0.57%
0.80%
0.29%
0.92%
0.68%
0.56%
0.51%
0.50%

7.18%

100.00%


--- page 227 ---
City of San Mateo
Property Tax Levies and Collections
Last Ten Fiscal Years

Collected Within the
Fiscal Year of the Levy Total Collections To Date
Fiscal
Year Total Tax Delinquent
Ended Levied for Collected Percentage Tax Collected Percentage
June 30 Fiscal Year 9“ Amount @) of Levy Collections © Amount ofLevy ©
2015 $ 45,515,000 $ 45,514,243 100.00% n/a $ 45,514,243 100.00%
2016 49,821,722 49,821,722 100.00% n/a 49,821,722 100.00%
2017 52,989,556 52,989,556 100.00% n/a 52,989,556 100.00%
2018 58,146,288 58,137,331 99.98% n/a 58,137,331 99.98%
2019 63,899,034 63,899,034 100.00% n/a 63,899,034 100.00%
2020 67,106,048 67,106,048 100.00% n/a 67,106,048 100.00%
2021 66,631,560 66,631,560 100.00% n/a 66,631,560 100.00%
2022 74,796,572 74,796,572 100.00% n/a 74,796,572 100.00%
2023 83,298,878 83,298,878 100.00% n/a 83,298,878 100.00%
2024 81,331,244 81,331,244 100.00% n/a 81,331,244 100.00%
Notes:

(1) The data in this table includes the basic and supplemental city property taxes and subventions, debt service tax and the Redevelopment Agency
tax increments, ERAF refunds, and property tax in-lieu of motor vehicle fees.

(2) Former redevelopment agency tax increments were excluded starting February 1, 2012, and subsequent fiscal years.

(3) San Mateo County assesses properties and it bills, collects, and distributes property taxes to all taxing entities, including the City. Under State
law, known as the Teeter Plan, the county remits the entire amount levied and handles all delinquencies, retaining interest and penalties. Only
secured taxes will be paid under the Teeter Plan.

(4) Years of lower collection are due to weak housing market and assessed value appeals.

Source: County of San Mateo

207
227 of 240


--- page 228 ---
City of San Mateo
Ratios of Outstanding Debt by Type
Last Ten Fiscal Years
(amounts expressed in thousands, except per capita amount)

Governmental Activities

General

Fiscal Obligation Revenue Loans Lease Subscription Total

Year Bonds Bond Payable Liability Liability Governmental
2015 $ 27,580 $ 27,478 $ 253 §$ - $ - $ 55,311
2016 26,268 26,774 193 - - 53,235
2017 24,920 26,026 865 - - 51,811
2018 23,528 19,512 2,936 - - 45,976
2019 22,086 25,408 2,728 86 - 50,308
2020 20,584 74,356 4,323 29 - 99,292
2021 19,032 72,379 5,501 - - 96,912
2022 17,410 69,888 4,880 - - 92,178
2023 15,733 67,394 4,285 1,054 3,473 91,939
2024 13,986 64,801 3,689 442 3,651 86,569

Notes:
Details regarding the City's outstanding debt can be found in the notes to the financial statements.
Former Redevelopment Agency Bonds were excluded in fiscal year 2012 and subsequent fiscal years.

Golf bond was included in Governmental Activities Revenue Bond effective fiscal year 2019 (when Golf operation was transferred to General Fund)
Capital lease payable was included in Governmental Activities capital lease payable effective fiscal year 2019 (when Golf operation was transferred to General Fund)

Source: City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive

208
228 of 240


--- page 229 ---
City of San Mateo
Ratios of Outstanding Debt by Type (Continued)
Last Ten Fiscal Years
(amounts expressed in thousands, except per capita amount)

Business-Type Activities Fiduciary Funds
Total Percentage Redevelopment County
Fiscal Sewer Loans Golf Lease Total Primary of Personal Per Tax Allocation CDBG
Year Bonds Payable Bond Liability Business-Type Government Income Capita Bond Loan
2015 $ 61,434 4916 $ 7465 $ - $ 73,815.00 $ 129,126 2.54% $ 1,277 $ 75,549.00 $ -
2016 59,867 11,000 7,095 - 77,962 131,197 2.45% 1,288 72,202 -
2017 58,244 5,000 6,710 209 70,163 121,974 2.12% 1,187 68,400 -
2018 56,572 5,000 6,572 142 68,286 114,262 1.88% 1,112 63,395 -
2019 338,126 - - - 338,126 388,434 6.17% 3,788 59,095 -
2020 334,752 - - - 334,752 434,044 6.89% 4,230 55,045 -
2021 331,296 - - - 331,296 428,208 6.30% 4,175 50,875 -
2022 635,380 - - - 635,380 727,558 9.23% 7,030 46,546 -
2023 619,136 - - © 619,211 711,150 7.15% 6,883 42,046 -
2024 318,566 295,479 - 38 614,083 700,652 6.83% 6,779 37,371 -

Notes:
Details regarding the City's outstanding debt can be found in the notes to the financial statements.
Former Redevelopment Agency Bonds were excluded in fiscal year 2012 and subsequent fiscal years.

Golf bond was included in Governmental Activities Revenue Bond effective fiscal year 2019 (when Golf operation was transferred to General Fund)
Capital lease payable was included in Governmental Activities capital lease payable effective fiscal year 2019 (when Golf operation was transferred to General Fund)

Source: City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports

209
229 of 240


--- page 230 ---
City of San Mateo
Ratios of General Bonded Debt Outstanding
Last Ten Fiscal Years
(amounts expressed in thousands, except per capita amount)

Percentage
General Less: Amount of Total Taxable

Fiscal Obligation Available in Assessed

Year Bonds Debt Svc Fund Total (net) Value Per Capita
2015 $ 27,580 § 3,034 $ 24,546 0.13% $ 242
2016 26,268 3,642 22,626 0.11% 220
2017 24,920 4,026 20,894 0.09% 202
2018 23,528 4,455 19,073 0.08% 183
2019 22,086 4,960 17,126 0.06% 164
2020 20,584 5,340 15,244 0.05% 148
2021 19,032 5,701 13,331 0.04% 129
2022 17,410 5,929 11,481 0.04% 111
2023 16,738 6,661 9,072 0.02% 88
2024 13,986 7,575 6,411 0.02% 62

Notes:
Details regarding the City's outstanding debt can be found in the notes to the financial statements.
Former Redevelopment Agency Bonds were excluded in fiscal year 2012 and subsequent fiscal years.

Source: City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports

210
230 of 240


--- page 231 ---
City of San Mateo

Direct and Overlapping Governmental Activities Debt

As of June 30, 2024
2023-24 Assessed Valuation: $  36,458,670,724
OO Total Debt
OVERLAPPING TAX AND ASSESSMENT DEBT: 6/30/2024
San Mateo Community College District $ 682,237,216

San Mateo Union High School District

Sequoia Union High School District

Belmont-Redwood Shores School District

Belmont School Facilities Improvement District

Hillsborough School District

San Mateo-Foster City School District

City of San Mateo Community Facilities District No.2008-1
TOTAL OVERLAPPING TAX AND ASSESSMENT DEBT

DIRECT TAX AND ASSESSMENT DEBT:
City of San Mateo
TOTAL DIRECT TAX AND ASSESSMENT DEBT

TOTAL DIRECT AND OVERLAPPING TAX AND ASSESSMENT DEBT

OVERLAPPING GENERAL FUND DEBT:

San Mateo County General Fund Obligations

San Mateo County Board of Education Certificates of Participation

Belmont-Redwood Shores School District General Fund Obligations

Highlands Recreation District General Fund Obligations

San Mateo County Mosquito & Vector Control District General Fund Obligations
TOTAL OVERLAPPING GENERAL FUND DEBT

DIRECT GENERAL FUND DEBT:
City of San Mateo General Fund Obligations
TOTAL DIRECT GENERAL FUND DEBT

TOTAL DIRECT AND OVERLAPPING GENERAL FUND DEBT
Less: City of San Mateo enterprise supported obligations

Highlands Recreation District supported obligations
TOTAL NET DIRECT AND OVERLAPPING GENERAL FUND DEBT

OVERLAPPING TAX INCREMENT DEBT (Successor Agency)

TOTAL GROSS DIRECT DEBT
TOTAL NET DIRECT DEBT
TOTAL OVERLAPPING DEBT

GROSS COMBINED TOTAL DEBT
NET COMBINED TOTAL DEBT

Ratios to 2023-24 Assessed Valuation:

Direct Debt ($13,030,000) 0.04%
Total Direct and Overlapping Tax and Assessment Debt 2.07%
Total Gross Direct Debt ($70,765,000) 0.19%
Total Net Direct Debt ($70,765,000) 0.19%
Gross Combined Total Debt 2.52%
Net Combined Total Debt 2.52%
Ratios to Redevelopment Successor Agency Incremental Valuation ($2,896,993,541):

Total Overlapping Tax Increment Debt

Notes:

1.22%

703,110,767
488,322,000
69,920,935
39,231,717
98,867,884
497,628,474
71,350,000
2,650,668,993

13,030,000
13,030,000

2,663,698,993

565,146,645
5,735,000
4,498,074
1,879,000
3,404,654

580,663,373

57,735,000

57,735,000

638,398,373

35,460,000

%
Applicable
11.85%
34.43%
0.54%
3.72%
6.55%
0.00%
68.52%
100.00%

(1)

100.00%

11.85%
11.85%
3.72%
0.02%
11.85%

100.00%

100.00%

City’s Share of

Debt 6/30/2024
$ 80,817,821
$ 242,045,882
$ 2,641,822
$ 2,597,563
$ 2,569,285
$ 989
$ 340,975,030
$ 71,350,000
$ 742,998,392

8 13,030,000_
$ 13,030,000

$ 756,028,392

66,947,272
679,368
167,103

282
403,315
68,197,340

PIF FA FF HF

57,735,000
$ 57,735,000

$ 125,932,340

220
$ 125,932,120
$ 35,460,000

70,765,000
70,765,000
846,655,733
917,420,732

~S__ 917,420,512

(1) The percentage of overlapping debt applicable to the city is estimated using taxable assessed property value. Applicable percentages were estimated by determining the portion of the
overlapping district's assessed value that is within the boundaries of the city, divided by the district's total taxable assessed value.

(2) Excludes tax and revenue anticipation notes, enterprise revenue and mortgage revenue

Source: MuniServices, LLC / Auenu Insights & Analysis and City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports

211

231 of 240

Q)


--- page 232 ---
Debt Limit

Total net debt applicable to limit

Legal debt margin

Total net debt applicable to the limit as a
percentage of debt limit

City of San Mateo

Legal Debt Margin Information

Last Ten Fiscal Years

(amounts expressed in thousands)

2015 2016

$ 2,951,703 $ 3,204,902
27,580 26,268

$ 2,924,123 $ 3,178,634
0.93% 0.82%

FISCAL YEAR
2017
$ 3,483,855
24,920
$ 3,458,935
0.72%

Note: The Government Code of the State of California provides for a legal debt limit of 15% of gross assessed valuation.

Source: County of San Mateo

212

2018
3,769,199 $
23,528

3,745,671 $

0.62%

232 of 240

2019

4,091,591

22,086

4,069,505

0.54%


--- page 233 ---
Debt Limit
Total net debt applicable to limit

Legal debt margin

Total net debt applicable to the limit as a

percentage of debt limit

Note: The Government Code of the State of California provides for a legal debt limit of 15% of gross assessed valuation.

Source: County of San Mateo

City of San Mateo
Legal Debt Margin Information (Continued)
Last Ten Fiscal Years
(amounts expressed in thousands)

FISCAL YEAR
2020 2021 2022
$ 4,402,378 $ 4,731,707 $ 4,894,892 $
20,584 19,032 17,410
$ 4,381,794 $ 4,712,675 $ 4,877,482 _.$
0.47% 0.40% 0.36%

Legal Debt Margin Calculation for Fiscal Year 2024
Assessed value

Add back: exempt real property

Debt limit (15% of assessed value)

Debt Application to limit:
General obligation bonds

Total net debt applicable to limit
Legal debt margin

213

2023 2024
5,290,997 $ 5,579,292
15,733 13,986
5,275,264 $ 5,565,306
0.30% 0.25%
2024
$ 36,351,658
843,621
$ 37,195,279
$ 5,579,292
13,986
13,986
$ 5,565,306

233 of 240


--- page 234 ---
City of San Mateo

Pledged-Revenue Coverage
Last Ten Fiscal Years
(amounts expressed in thousands)

Sewer Revenue Bonds

Sewer Less Net

Fiscal Charges Operating Available Debt Service

——_Year___ __and Other__(1)__Expenses__(2)_Revenue__Principal__—_Interest__—_Coverage _
2015 $ 32,453 $ 19,511 $ 12,942 $ 17,800 (3) $ 2,041 3.65 (3)
2016 31,874 23,218 8,656 1,460 2,560 2.15
2017 31,932 21,419 10,513 1,515 2,516 2.61
2018 41,927 21,870 20,057 1,565 2,462 4.98
2019 53,362 23,347 30,015 1,585 3,220 6.25
2020 64,587 22,828 41,759 1,650 9,536 3.73
2021 69,020 24,262 44,758 1,730 13,195 3.00
2022 71,061 24,409 46,652 20,820 (4) 20,413 2.17 (4)
2023 85,586 24,508 61,078 1,740 12,694 4.23
2024 82,501 33,041 49,460 273,430 (5) 12,018 3.56 (5)

Notes:

(1) Sewer charges and other include investment earnings.

(2) Operating expenses do not include interest or depreciation.

(3) Increase due to the refunding of the 2003 Sewer Revenue bonds totaling $16.3 million, which is excluded from the coverage calculation.
(4) Increase due to the refunding of the 2011A Sewer Revenue bonds totaling $19.7 million, which is excluded from the coverage calculation.

(5) Increase due to the refunding of the 2021B Wastewater Revenue Notes totaling $271.5 million, which is excluded from the coverage calculation.

Source: City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports

214
234 of 240


--- page 235 ---
City of San Mateo

Demographic and Economic Statistics
Last Ten Fiscal Years

City
Per Capita County City Population
Fiscal Population Personal Median *Public School Unemployment Unemployment County (% of County)
Year (dd) Personal Income (2) Income (2) Age Enrollment Rate (%) (3) Rate(%) (3) Population (1) qd)
2015 $ 101,429 $ 4,696,568,416 $ 46,304 39.2 20,179 3.20% 3.10% 753,123 13.47%
2016 102,659 5,156,150,934 50,226 39.1 20,603 3.40% 3.30% 766,041 13.40%
2017 103,426 5,444,686,980 52,643 39.1 21,074 3.00% 2.90% 770,203 13.43%
2018 104,490 5,850,629, 158 55,992 38.9 21,321 2.20% 2.00% 774,155 13.50%
2019 104,570 6,175,904,200 59,060 39.6 21,299 1.70% 1.60% 774,485 13.50%
2020 103,087 6,332,177,735 61,426 39.2 21,461 11.10% 9.70% 773,244 13.33%
2021 103,045 6,832, 166,874 66,303 = 38.2 20,729 6.84% 6.20% 765,245 13.47%
2022 103,779 7,903,471,358 76,157 37.8 20,012 1.70% 1.50% 744,662 13.94%
2023 103,318 9,177,651,153 88,829 | 38.0 19,554 2.70% 2.80% 737,644 14.01%
2024 103,352 10,259, 142,230 99,264 39.4 19,323 2.90% 2.90% 741,565 13.94%

Notes:

(1) Population Projections are provided by the California Department of Finance.

(2) Income Data is provided by U.S. Census Bureau.

(3) Unemployment Data is provided by the Employment Development Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics Department.

*Student Enrollment reflects the total number of students enrolled in the San Mateo Union High School District and San Mateo-Foster City Unified School District.
Any other school districts within the City are not accounted for in this statistic.

Source: MuniServices, LLC / avenu Insights & Analytics

215
235 of 240


--- page 236 ---
City of San Mateo
Principal Employers for City of San Mateo
Current Year and Nine Years Ago

Business Name
County of San Mateo Medical Center
San Mateo Foster City School District*
Sony Interactive Entertainment America, Playstation America**
San Mateo Union High School District
San Mateo College (San Mateo County CCD)
Franklin Templeton Investor
San Mateo County Behavioral Health
City of San Mateo
Mills Health Center - Sutter Health
Rakuten
Marketo Inc
Fisher Investments
Total Top 10 Employers

Total Labor Force (1)

Sources:
(1) City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports
(2) MuniServices, LLC / Avenu Insights & Analytics

Results based on direct correspondence with city’s local businesses.

2024

Number of
Employees

1,414
1,232
1,230
1,038
674
435
548
477
415
253

7,716

61,600

*Includes Capuchino and Burlingame HS which are outside the city limits of San Mateo.
** Sony Interactive Entertainment America, Playstation America has not responded.

Previous year's employee headcount applied.
(1) Total City Labor Force provided by EDD Labor Force Data.

216

Percent of
Total
Employment

(%)

2.30%

2.00%

2.00%

1.69%

1.09%

0.71%

0.89%

0.77%

0.67%

0.41%

12.53%

2015

Number of Percent of Total

2,598
1,177

1,000
1,170
1,103
475
975
451

471
465
9,885

61,900

236 of 240

Employees Employment (%)

4.20%
1.90%

1.62%
1.89%
1.78%
0.77%
1.58%
0.73%

0.76%
0.75%
15.97%


--- page 237 ---
City of San Mateo

Full-Time Equivalent City Government Employees by Function
Last Ten Fiscal Years

Full-Time Equivalent Employees as of June 30

Function 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024

General government 57.81 64.75 66.41 65.58 66.09 62.65 62.65 61.95 59.95 58.92 64.39
Community development 39.72 47.35 47.35 48.94 48.94 49.72 51.72 51.40 51.40 53.18 56.18
Public safety 244.77 249.78 256.53 268.11 265.85 177.14 171.51 170.50. 167.50 169.40 170.40
Public works

(excluding Sewer) 44.51 44.52 45.99 57.96 57.11 63.51 61.56 63.71 64.08 67.69 73.28

Parks and recreation

(excluding Golf) 98.79 101.54 101.54 102.07 103.21 107.73 107.73 106.40 107.68 100.47 107.08
Library 47.95 48.85 49.35 50.59 52.48 53.36 53.36 53.34 52.34 52.32 54.32
Sewer 75.24 76.69 77.99 80.49 80.49 84.58 86.53 86.20 84.83 86.52 85.41

Golf 11.14 11.14 11.14 11.77 11.77 12.55 12.55 12.75 12.75 12.75 7.50
Total: 619.93 644.62 656.30 685.51 685.94 611.24 607.61 606.25 600.53 601.25 618.56

Notes:

(1) Public safety number starting fiscal year 2019 only included Police Department's employees. Fire Operations were transferred to
San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department effective 1/13/2019.

Source: Adopted City Budgets

217
237 of 240


--- page 238 ---
City of San Mateo

Operating Indicators by Function
Last Ten Fiscal Years

FISCAL YEAR
Function 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024

Building:

Building permits issued 3,587 4,359 4,169 4,385 3,678 3,345 3,937 4,061 4,115 3,856

Inspections 16,090 16,984 19,061 20,252 18,828 15,890 19,138 16,160 18,881 18,129
Finance:

Business licenses issued 9,111 9,474 8,796 8,656 8,200 8,072 7,300 7,300 8,350 7,900
Fire:

Number of calls 9,672 9,780 9,282 9,822 5,365 (2)

Inspections 7,213 7,504 7,681 4,513 1,284 (2)
Golf course:

Golf rounds played 63,903 62,441 59,348 62,923 61,805 60,820 80,050 83,964 75,130 80,636 (3)
Library:

Annual circulation 922,790 946,259 981,512 988,301 1,129,127 921,979 657,064 983,423 980,442 1,022,395 (3)

Library visits 566,244 555,008 603,760 610,834 764,469 422,226 25,168 255,644 336,040 379,404 (3)
Parks and recreation:

Course registration 23,752 24,843 23,123 23,734 22,521 23,412 5,837 14,537 19,488 19,603

Facility rentals 1,386 1,368 1,346 1,369 1,329 827 - 191 473 397

Picnic rentals 1,275 1,086 1,274 1,340 1,423 1,165 361 1,650 1,608 1,676
Police:

Arrests 3,077 3,311 2,947 2,670 2,496 2,112 2,242 2,231 2,106 2,255

Traffic violations 4,076 6,548 4,470 13,364 11,058 5,999 9,400 7,636 7,853 7,487 (1)

Parking violations 35,284 30,699 = 31,950 27,103 27,410 23,300 36,558 32,276 65,102 60,279
Public works:

Street resurfacing (lane miles) 21 14 4 6 22 7 18 8.5 42.3 6.8

Potholes repaired 443 198 315 150 297 209 331 744 774 557
Sewer:

Number of customers 27,661 27,816 27,965 27,961 28,237 28,366 28,359 28,359 28,359 28,494

Average daily sewage

treatment (mgd) 12.0 10.0 12.2 10.4 11.5 9.9 9.7 10.6 13.0 13.0

Notes:

(1) Number of traffic violations starting fiscal year 2018 included number of photo enforcement violations. Such information was not available for prior fiscal years.
(2) Number of fire calls for fiscal year 2019 included calls for period from 7/1/18 to 1/12/19. Fire operation was transferred to San Mateo Consolidated Fire
Department (SMC Fire) effective 1/13/2019. Please refer to SMC Fire annual financial report for Fire Department operating indicators starting from January 13,
2019.

(3) Due to shelter-in-place orders, all three San Mateo Public Library facilities were closed to the public from 3/16/20 through 6/30/20, and the golf course was
completely closed from 3/16/20 through 5/5/20.

Source: Various City Departments

218
238 of 240


--- page 239 ---
Function

Fire:

Fire stations

Golf course:

Municipal golf courses

Library:
Main Library
Branch Library

Parks and recreation:
Parks acreage
Parks
Swimming pools
Tennis courts

Community centers

Police:
Stations

Patrol units

Public works:
Street (miles)
Street lights

Traffic signals

Sewer:
Wastewater treatment plant
Sanitary sewers (miles)
Storm drains (miles)
Number of pump stations
Maximum daily treatment

capacity (mgd)

Source: Various City Departments

2015

318

35

204
7,500
84

236
140
37

15.7

2016

320
35

16

36

204
7,500
84

236
140
35

City of San Mateo
Capital Asset Statistics by Function
Last Ten Fiscal Years

2017

320

37

204
7,500
86

260
148
37

2018

320

37

204
7,500
87

260
148
37

15.7

219

FISCAL YEAR
2019 2020

6 6

1 1

1 1

2 2
320 320
35 35

2 2

16 16

6 6

1 1

37 40
204 204
7,500 7,500
87 87

1 1
260 260
148 148
37 37
15.7 15.7

2021

320

40

204
7,500
90

260
148
37

15.7

2022

320

40

204
7,500
90

260
148
37

2023

320
35

16

40

204
7,500
90

260
148
37

15.7

239 of 240

2024

350
36

16

40

204
7,500
90

260
148
37

15.7


--- page 240 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

220
240 of 240
