--- page 1 ---
SUBSCRIBE
LOG IN
Home /  Article /  Flock Safety engages Bishop Fox to bolster cybersecurity for public
safety platform
FLOCK SAFETY ENGAGES BISHOP
FOX TO BOLSTER CYBERSECURITY
FOR PUBLIC SAFETY PLATFORM
Also Noted
SSN Staff
Updated 9:04 AM CST, Mon February 2, 2026
ATLANTA—Flock Safety, a safety technology platform dedicated to creating thriving
communities, and Bishop Fox, an authority in offensive security, will launch a comprehensive
testing campaign to provide third-party evaluation of Flock’s technology as part of the
company’s continued commitment to security and risk management.
X Dismiss

--- page 2 ---
This project builds on Flock’s ongoing investment in security governance, which includes
maintaining an annual SOC 2 Type II on Security and Availability Trust Service Criteria, a
certification on ISO 27001 Information Security Management System, and compliance with
Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) Security Policy.
Bishop Fox’s offensive security experts will engage in complex, multistage and multilayer
adversarial testing across all of Flock’s products, both hardware and software. The results
and any ensuing updates will be communicated transparently to reinforce confidence in
Flock’s strong security posture. 
“Flock’s customers and the public at large should expect the most advanced cybersecurity
program in the public safety industry, and that is why we are bringing on the most respected
leader in offensive security, Bishop Fox,” said Chris Castaldo, Flock’s chief information
security officer (CISO).
You can learn more about Flock’s position on data security and integrity
at https://www.flocksafety.com/privacy-ethics. 
 
Bishop Fox, chief information security officer (CISO), Chris Castaldo, Criminal Justice
Information Services (CJIS), Flock Safety
Comments
To comment on this post, please log in to your account or set up an account now.
Need the Latest Security News in the Industry?
Want to always have the latest security news in the industry right in your inbox? Click the
button below to subscribe.
X Dismiss

--- page 3 ---
Categories
Recent
Archives
SUBSCRIBE NOW
SPONSORED STORIES
Control Where You Couldn’t Before with PDK Red™ Locksets
By Maren Smith, PDK Marketing Communications Manager
Ending the Era of False Alarms
By Digital Monitoring Products
Dominate the Market—Take Over Legacy Panels, Improve Customer Loyalty and
Increase Profitability
By Digital Monitoring Products
Protect your bottom line with advanced people screening technology
By Rohde & Schwarz
Commercial
Monitoring
Residential
Suppliers
Cybersecurity
X Dismiss

--- page 4 ---
General News
Also Noted
On The Editor's Desk
Monitoring Matters
20 Under 40
Emerging Leaders Under 40
Fire Systems Installation
News and Notes
Women in Security
This Blog's on Fire (And Other Stuff)
RELATED ARTICLES
Privacy debate sharpens focus on professional
surveillance
LOS ANGELES—A recent advertising controversy involving Ring has renewed
scrutiny around how surveillance technologies are designed, deployed and
governed, reigniting debate over privacy, data use and public trust across the
security industry.   The...
Read Article
Flock Safety introduces Audit Assistance tool for
accountable public safety technology
X Dismiss

--- page 5 ---
Privacy Policy | Sitemap | Terms & Conditions | Web Accessibility Guidelines
Cookie Preferences | Do Not Sell My Personal Information
ATLANTA—Flock has announced the launch of Trust & Compliance, a suite of
products and services bringing together best-in-class data privacy controls,
transparency tools, and accountability features under one unified system. In a
time where public safety technology...
Read Article
News Poll: Surveillance controversy shakes trust
YARMOUTH, Maine — Recent high‑profile scandals have put surveillance
technology under renewed scrutiny, raising fresh questions about trust in the
security industry, according to the results of this month’s SSN News Poll. 
Security Systems...
Read Article
ABOUT US
OUR TEAM
CONTACT US
MEDIA KIT
ADVERTISE
X Dismiss

--- page 6 ---
© 2026 Security Systems News. All rights reserved. Web solutions provided by VGM Forbin
X Dismiss