--- page 1 ---
SUBSCRIBE
LOG IN
Home /  Article /  Genetec unveils AutoVu Plate Finder, bringing ALPR to mobile devices
GENETEC UNVEILS AUTOVU PLATE
FINDER, BRINGING ALPR TO MOBILE
DEVICES
Also Noted
SSN Staff
Updated 10:59 AM CDT, Tue June 4, 2024
MONTRÉAL—Genetec has announced the release of AutoVu Plate Finder, a new feature that
enables parking operators and law enforcement professionals to quickly identify and
validate license plate numbers directly from their Apple or Android mobile devices.
AutoVu Plate Finder increases efficiency by reducing the time spent manually checking
difficult-to-read or obstructed license plates. For example, vehicles with rear-facing license
X Dismiss

--- page 2 ---
Genetec
plates backed into parking spots cannot easily be read by vehicle-based Automatic License
Plate Recognition (ALPR) systems.
Instead of having officers exit their vehicles to input the plate number in the
onboard system manually, Plate Finder enables them to take a picture of the
license plate from their phone. This allows them to quickly verify parking rights or identify
wanted vehicles on local, state, federal, or custom hotlists.
“Validating license plates against parking regulations and law enforcement hotlists in
bustling downtown areas or crowded parking garages can pose significant challenges for
officers,” said Michael Bradner, AutoVu product line manager at Genetec. “With the AutoVu
Plate Finder, users can now access cutting-edge ALPR technology anytime, from anywhere
with a cellular data connection.”  
Once the image is captured, the information is encrypted and securely sent to the cloud-
based AutoVu Managed Services ALPR system. A neural network, part of the Genetec
Machine Learning Core (MLC) engine, reads the license plate and vehicle characteristics.
The pertinent information, including zone details, is then displayed on the user’s device,
enhancing the effectiveness of field operations.
AutoVu Plate Finder is a new subscription feature offered within AutoVu Managed Services.
This feature is available through Genetec Mobile and is available immediately to new or
existing AutoVu Managed Services (AMS) customers in the U.S. and Canada.
For more information, please visit https://resources.genetec.com/en-feature-notes/genetec-
mobile-autovu-plate-finder.
 
Android, Apple, automatic license plate recognition, AutoVu Plate Finder, Genetec,
Michael Bradner
Comments
To comment on this post, please log in to your account or set up an account now.
X Dismiss

--- page 3 ---
Categories
Recent
Archives
Need the Latest Security News in the Industry?
Want to always have the latest security news in the industry right in your inbox? Click the
button below to subscribe.
SUBSCRIBE NOW
SPONSORED STORIES
Control Where You Couldn’t Before with PDK Red™ Locksets
By Maren Smith, PDK Marketing Communications Manager
Ending the Era of False Alarms
By Digital Monitoring Products
Dominate the Market—Take Over Legacy Panels, Improve Customer Loyalty and
Increase Profitability
By Digital Monitoring Products
Protect your bottom line with advanced people screening technology
By Rohde & Schwarz
Commercial
Monitoring
X Dismiss

--- page 4 ---
Residential
Suppliers
Cybersecurity
General News
Also Noted
On The Editor's Desk
Monitoring Matters
20 Under 40
Emerging Leaders Under 40
Fire Systems Installation
News and Notes
Women in Security
This Blog's on Fire (And Other Stuff)
RELATED ARTICLES
System Surveyor launches mobile app to connect
sales, installation teams
AUSTIN, Texas—System Surveyor has launched a native smartphone app
designed to give security integrators’ field teams access to site survey and
system design information throughout the project lifecycle. Available on iOS and
Android, the System Surveyor Phone app...
X Dismiss

--- page 5 ---
Read Article
In brief: SIA announces new Board of Directors chair,
Milestone Systems announces AI, Preferred
Technologies receives two Genetec 2025 Channel
Partner Awards
LAS VEGAS—The Security Industry Association (SIA) announced its new board
of directors chair - Mike Mathes of Convergint - and presented two
new board members at The Advance, SIA’s annual membership meeting, held
March 24 at ISC...
Read Article
Preferred Technologies receives two Genetec 2025
Channel Partner Awards
HOUSTON—Preferred Technologies, LLC (Pref-Tech) announced that it has been
awarded two Genetec 2025 Channel Partner Awards - USA Public Sector Partner
of the Year and USA Central Region Partner. These awards celebrate exceptional
sales performance, service excellence,...
Read Article
X Dismiss

--- page 6 ---
Privacy Policy | Sitemap | Terms & Conditions | Web Accessibility Guidelines
Cookie Preferences | Do Not Sell My Personal Information
© 2026 Security Systems News. All rights reserved. Web solutions provided by VGM Forbin
ABOUT US
OUR TEAM
CONTACT US
MEDIA KIT
ADVERTISE
X Dismiss