Transparency Portal
Visit Flock
Johnson City TN PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Fri Jul 10 2026

OVERVIEW

Johnson City TN PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Johnson City TN PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Johnson City TN PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

POLICIES

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected on LPR

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Johnson City TN PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
USAGE

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

278

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCIC, NCMEC Amber Alert

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

604,727

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

635

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

132,108

*Hotlist hits last 30 days info

Total hotlist hits include Alerts received by JCPD, as well as other law enforcement agencies that JCPD shares with. This can include NCIC, Amber Alerts, and Custom Hotlists.
ADDITIONAL INFO

Recent Success Stories

See some of our success stories here: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1htg3_4kPOuTeLOWWZUTnBG8k0fZbR5UmqZgnNziaQwI/edit?usp=sharing

Provided by Flock Safety