source: packet.pdf
sha256: abce3e3663e2235bd775593ea70c5ac94c49dad1eb20cb5222fa5d85d14854dc
pages: 81
ocr_pages: 7
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Sustainability & Infrastructure
Commission 
January 10, 2024
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 W. 20  Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
Susan Rowinski, Chair 
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair
Sigalle Michael
Pam Rittelmeyer
Cliff Robbins
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: January 10, 2024 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 892 9334 1335      Passcode: 148133
The Sustainability and Infrastructure meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move to the next regular meeting.
 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure meeting of December 13, 2023.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to Speak"
form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be referred to
staff for further review.
OLD BUSINESS
2.
Bicycle and Pedestrian Projects and Sustainable Communities Grant Program – Update and Letter of Support
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, acting as the City of San Mateo’s Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory
Committee, receive an update on bicycle and pedestrian projects, approve a letter of support to the California
Department of Transportation for the Sustainable Communities Grant Program FY 2024-25 grant application, and
authorize the Chair to sign the letter on behalf of the Commission.
NEW BUSINESS
th
1 of 81

--- page 2 ---
3.
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project - Update
Receive an informational update on the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project and provide
feedback to staff.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments, calendar of events and requests for future agenda items
 
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: Commission meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org  until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Public Work’s Office at (650) 522-7300 or publicworks@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting
will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 81

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
Account Number: 
File ID: 24-8340
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Brad Underwood
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 10, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure meeting of December 13, 2023.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes of the December 13, 2023 meeting 
3 of 81

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Sustainability & Infrastructure 
Commission  
December 13, 2023 
7:00 PM 
 
City Hall Council Chamber 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS  
Susan Rowinski, Chair  
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair 
Sigalle Michael 
Pam Rittelmeyer 
Clifford Robbins 
 
MINUTES 
 
CALL TO ORDER 
 
Pledge of Allegiance 
 
Roll Call 
Present:  Chair Rowinski, Commissioners Robbins, Michael and Rittelmeyer.  Vice Chair Narita appeared 
Remote. 
Motion to allow Vice Chair Narita to appear remote. Motion passed 4-0.  
 
Moved:       Robbins, Seconded: Michael 
Ayes:          Rittelmeyer, Rowinski, Robbins, and Michael 
Noes:          None 
 
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
  
1. Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes - Approval  
 
Motion was made to approve the minutes of November 8, 2023.  Motion passed 5-0. 
 
Moved:       Robbins, Seconded: Michael  
Ayes:          Narita, Rowinski, Robbins, Michael and Rittelmeyer 
Noes:          None 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: Steve Doukas spoke about the health hazards of RF Emissions.   
 
NEW BUSINESS 
 
2. Wireless Telecommunications Law and Small Cell Facilities Informational Session 
Dr. Jonathan Kramer from Telecom Law Firm PC made a presentation to the Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission about wireless telecommunications law, small cell facilities, AB 965, and related matters and best 
practices.  
 
Commissioners asked questions of staff.  
4 of 81

--- page 5 ---
Public Comment: Andrew Campanelli provided a 15-minute presentation and Ariel Strauss, Kathleen Wells, 
Irena Mavridis, and Kelly Ryerson spoke to the topic.  The Chair closed the Public comment section of the 
hearing.     
 
Comments from Commissioners:  It was clarified that changing the ordinance would require a procedural 
decision from City Council and then it would come back to the Commission for discussion; safety standards are 
part of the application process; Deputy Fire Chief Robert Marshall confirmed that the facility complies with all 
fire code safety standards; Commission’s authority on appeals is limited to the completeness of the application 
and compliance with the City ordinance with regards to design; it was suggested that staff look to improve the 
ordinance to make it more robust, but not so aggressive as to involve litigation.      
 
PUBLIC HEARING 
 
3. Wireless Permit Approval at 16 Baldwin (Permit #WC-2023-0000201) – Appeal 
This item, originally scheduled on the December 13, 2023 agenda, was not heard due to Crown Castle 
withdrawing their permit application.  
 
4. Wireless Permit Approval at 1001 Bermuda Drive (Permit #WC-2023-0000206) – Appeal 
This item, originally scheduled on the December 13, 2023 agenda, was not heard due to Crown Castle 
withdrawing their permit application.  
 
5. Wireless Permit Approval at 535 Clark Drive (Permit #WC-2023-0000219) – Appeal 
This item, originally scheduled on the December 13, 2023 agenda, was not heard due to Crown Castle 
withdrawing their permit application.   
  
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENT FROM COMMISSIONER AND STAFF 
• Interim Public Works Director Brad Underwood mentioned there will probably be two Sustainability and 
Infrastructure meetings for the months of January and February due to the many appeals the department is 
receiving.    
• Interim Public Works Director Brad Underwood mentioned the there will be a Bike/Ped update and 28th 
Avenue Gap Closure update in January and/or February.   
• The next regular Sustainability and Infrastructure meeting will be January 10, 2024 at 7:00 p.m.  
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Adjourn:    10:30 PM 
 
Agendas and background material are posted on the City’s website  www.cityofsanmateo.org 
at least 72 hours preceding each Commission meeting.  Any supplemental material distributed to Commissioners after the posting of 
the agenda will be available for public review at City Hall, City Manager’s office. 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo. 
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this 
meeting may contact the Public Works Department at (650) 522-7300.  Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the city to 
make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting. 
 
5 of 81

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-8206
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Brad Underwood
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 10, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Bicycle and Pedestrian Projects and Sustainable Communities Grant Program – Update and Letter of Support
RECOMMENDATION:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, acting as the City of San Mateo’s Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory 
Committee, receive an update on bicycle and pedestrian projects, approve a letter of support to the California Department 
of Transportation for the Sustainable Communities Grant Program FY 2024-25 grant application, and authorize the Chair to 
sign the letter on behalf of the Commission.
BACKGROUND:
Staff will present brief updates on the pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure projects and planning efforts.
Infrastructure Projects
Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor: Staff was awarded funds under Cycle 5 of the California Transportation 
Commission’s (CTC) Active Transportation Program (ATP) for the Delaware Street Safe Routes to School bicycle project. 
This project will implement the Delaware Street Class IV separated bike lane and Class III bicycle boulevard as proposed in 
the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan. This project provides necessary safety improvements in an area with a high level of traffic 
stress and will improve safety and connectivity to two public schools accessed from Delaware Street. Further, this project 
improves north-west connectivity to the relocated Hillsdale Caltrain station. The following is an update on this effort: 
•
The contract for consultant services for design and community engagement was awarded at the December 4, 2023 
City Council meeting.
•
City staff are coordinating with the consultant team for project initiation.
28th Avenue Gap Closure Project: Staff was awarded funds from the San Mateo County Transportation Authority 
Pedestrian and Bicycle Program Cycle 5 to fund the design and environmental review for the 28th Avenue/Hillsdale Caltrain 
Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure project. The intent of the project is to evaluate options and develop design plans for the 
Class IV separated bike lane identified in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and provide a safe path of travel for pedestrians and 
bicyclists across the El Camino Real intersection. In June 2023, the project scope was expanded east to E. Kyne Street to 
include design plans for the proposed Class II bike lane from Delaware Street to E. Kyne Street and improvements at the 
Delaware Street and Kyne Street intersections to connect bicyclists to existing and proposed bike facilities in the area. The 
following is an update on this effort: 
•
City staff and the consultant team developed three design alternatives to implement an on-street bikeway on 28th 
Avenue.
•
The project team hosted a community meeting at the Hillsdale Branch Library on November 16, 2023 to receive 
feedback on the design alternatives.
6 of 81

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
City staff and the project team will present an update on the project to the Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission at the January 2024 meeting.
Pavement Management Program Integration: Staff continues to integrate the implementation of bicycle facilities with 
scheduled pavement management projects where funding for design and construction is available and feasible. The 
following is an update on this effort: 
•
Smooth Streets Phase 3: This pavement management project includes installation of a bicycle boulevard on 
Sunnybrae Boulevard from S. Delaware Street to S. Amphlett Boulevard. The improvements include bicycle and 
pedestrian safety elements such as modifications to the roadway configuration near Folkstone Avenue and 
signage. The bicycle boulevard on Sunnybrae Boulevard is complete. City staff will discuss proposed striping 
modifications with the Sunnybrae community prior to installation, which is expected in early 2024.
•
Smooth Streets Phase 5-B: This pavement management project includes installation of a bicycle boulevard on S. 
Grant Street from Concar Drive to 16th Avenue. The project will also assess options for implementing traffic 
calming elements, including speed cushions, on South Grant Street.
•
4th and 5th Avenue Railroad Crossing Improvements Project: This project includes repaving approximately 100 
feet of roadway on both 4th and 5th Avenues, installation of a Class II bicycle lane on 5th Avenue between B Street 
and Railroad Avenue, and replacement of all striping, signage, and markings within project limits (e.g. stop lines, 
lane markings, pavement markings). The Class III bike lanes on 5th Avenue are installed and complete. The 
electrical work, including video detection and streetlights, are expected to be complete in January 2024.
School Zone Speed Limits: City Council’s strategic plan prioritizes implementation of bicycle and pedestrian projects that 
address safety issues. Part of this objective includes evaluating school zone speed limit reductions to address quality of-life 
and safety within neighborhoods. Speed limit reductions in school zones can help reduce the risk of severe or fatal 
conflicts between vehicles and active transportation users (e.g., cyclists and pedestrians) and can also help promote 
students and families walking or biking to school. City Council adopted a resolution in December 2021 identifying a total of 
38 roadway segments contiguous to 23 schools in San Mateo that qualify for speed limit reductions and authorized the 
reduction of posted speed limits in these zones. The following is an update on this effort: 
•
The Request for Proposals (RFP) to solicit construction services for Phases 2 (private elementary and middle 
schools) and 3 (public high schools) was released in early November 2023.
•
The construction contract is anticipated to be awarded in January 2024 with construction expected to be complete 
in early Spring 2024.
19th Avenue/Fashion Island Class IV Bicycle Facility Project: This project is part of a joint effort between the City, San 
Mateo County Transportation Authority (SMCTA), and SamTrans to design and construct multimodal improvements as part 
of the 101/92 Interchange Project. The project includes feasibility, design, and construction of Class IV separated bicycle 
lanes on 19th Avenue and Fashion Island Boulevard, including intersection improvements, and is expected to connect 
directly to a proposed Mobility Hub at the existing Caltrans Park and Ride location being constructed in parallel. In addition 
to the proposed Class IV separated bikeway, the project includes smart corridor elements such as smart streetlights, air 
quality monitoring, traffic signal detection enhancements, and smart kiosks and digital bus stops with real-time transit 
information. The following is an update on this effort: 
•
City staff and the consultant team are identifying conceptual design alternatives for the project and anticipate 
presenting those to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission and City Council in early 2024.
Alameda de las Pulgas Corridor Analysis and Hillsdale Boulevard at Alameda de las Pulgas Traffic Signal Design: This project 
will conduct a corridor traffic analysis to assess current and future roadway operations on Alameda de las Pulgas at the 
28th, 31st, and 36th Avenue intersections. While bicycle infrastructure will not be implemented as part of this project, the 
analysis will include bicycle movements for the proposed Class II buffered bike lanes on Alameda de las Pulgas as identified 
in the adopted 2020 Bicycle Master Plan. The project will also assess and design traffic signal operations at the Hillsdale 
Boulevard and Alameda de las Pulgas intersection to optimize safety for all modes, including pedestrians from nearby 
schools and bicyclists using the existing Class II bicycle lanes on Hillsdale Boulevard. The following is an update on this 
effort:
7 of 81

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
City staff are working with the project consultant on the community outreach strategy and operational analysis for 
the corridor. 
•
Outreach is anticipated to begin during Spring 2024. 
Planning Projects
Citywide Complete Streets Plan: A collaborative team of staff from Public Works, Community Development, and the City 
Manager’s Office submitted an application to the Caltrans Sustainable Communities FY 2021-22 Grant Program for the San 
Mateo Complete Streets Plan and was awarded funding for the project in June 2021. This project brings together the City’s 
various active transportation plans, Local Roadway Safety Plan, and Green Infrastructure Plan to fully envision a 
multimodal transportation network and identify priority improvements for the City. The following is an update on this 
effort: 
•
City staff presented an informational update to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission and City Council 
in mid-October 2023. 
•
The project team held several focus group meetings with parents at Baywood and Sunnybrae Elementary Schools, 
students at Hillsdale High School, and Shoreview, Parkside, and North Shoreview residents in October and 
November 2023 to discuss transportation safety and verify areas of concern.
•
The project team is finalizing the High Needs Corridors and developing the draft Design Manual which will include 
design standards and guidelines for implementing transportation improvements in the Plan.
Citywide Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Ordinance: The Citywide TDM Ordinance envisions a comprehensive 
approach to TDM in San Mateo by recommending trip reduction goals to be established throughout the City to support 
vehicles miles traveled (VMT) reduction and the goal of a multimodal transportation network. The project will propose 
updates to the San Mateo Municipal Code and develop program guidelines to provide detail and guidance for staff and the 
development community to implement trip reduction goals for projects in San Mateo. The project will evaluate existing 
TDM policies, consider best practices from like jurisdictions, and develop a framework for policy development. The 
framework will outline specific policy aspects on which Commission and Council will provide feedback to develop the final 
policy parameters. This project is funded through a technical assistance grant from the Metropolitan Transportation 
Commission (MTC). The following is an update on this effort:
•
City staff presented the project, stakeholder engagement findings, and key policy questions to City Council on 
November 6, 2023.
•
City staff and the consultant team are currently developing the draft TDM Ordinance and guidelines and 
anticipates presenting those to the Planning Commission, Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, and City 
Council in Spring 2024.
Local Roadway Safety Plan: The Local Roadway Safety Plan (LRSP) will analyze collision patterns in the city and use those 
findings to recommend prioritized safety improvements that will work toward the goal of reducing fatal and severe injury 
crashes. Following input from the community and the LRSP’s Safety Partners, a list of prioritized projects will be developed 
and incorporated into a Local Roadway Safety Plan document. The following is an update on this effort: 
•
The draft LRSP will be presented to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission in February 2024.
Complete Streets North Central Plan: As directed by City Council at the March 20, 2023 meeting, staff developed a scope 
for a Complete Streets North Central Plan that will be completed concurrently with the Citywide Complete Streets Plan. 
The scope for the Plan includes extensive engagement with the community to understand the lived experience and 
identify needs and goals for a community-specific transportation plan. The Plan will result in the development of priority 
projects for the neighborhood to address the goals and community needs. The following is an update on this effort: 
•
Community engagement kicked off in early October 2023 with the first Lived Experience Group (LEG) meeting. The 
intent of the group is to hear unique perspectives and collaborate with LEG members on engagement events to 
ensure the Plan reflects the challenges and concerns faced by North Central residents. 
•
The project team and LEG members conducted various outreach events in November and December 2023. Events 
included two pop-ups in the North Central neighborhood, a focus group at the Home Association of North Central 
San Mateo (HANCSM) November meeting, and two focus groups with North Central residents.
8 of 81

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
City staff and the consultant team will present the project to the City Council in early 2024.
Grants 
Transportation Development Act Article 3 Bicycle and Pedestrian Program: The City/County of Association of Governments 
of San Mateo County (C/CAG) issued a call for projects in September 2023. The goal of the program is to fund specific 
projects that encourage and improve bicycling and walking conditions in San Mateo County to reduce congestion, make 
regional connections, enhance safety, and address local mobility needs.
•
City staff submitted a grant application in November 2023 requesting $282,000 towards designing a new entrance 
to the northbound platform on the northeast side of the San Mateo Caltrain Station and improving pedestrian 
access to the station on Cypress Avenue. The improvements will reduce the barrier to transit for riders coming 
from the north and make accessing the station by foot safer and more comfortable.
Caltrans Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Program: Caltrans released the call for projects for this grant program, 
which includes several grant opportunities. City staff are developing grant applications for two areas of the program.
•
Sustainable Communities Grants: Public Works and Community Development staff are collaboratively submitting 
an application to update the City’s Downtown Area Plan, adopted in 2009. The proposed Envision San Mateo 
Downtown San Mateo Area Plan will include land use and transportation planning for the Downtown core and 
implement the vision of the General Plan update. Staff requests the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
consider the attached letter of support for the Sustainable Communities Grant application and authorize the Chair 
to sign the letter on their behalf.
•
Climate Adaptation Planning Grant: Public Works is drafting an application for this new program, which focuses on 
local and regional identification of transportation-related climate vulnerabilities through the development of 
climate adaptation plans. Staff are seeking approximately $560,000 in grant funding to support preparing a climate 
adaptation plan specific to sea level rise and updating the City’s Stormwater Master Plan to plan for and 
implement projects that improve the City’s aging stormwater infrastructure. The proposed project will assess the 
magnitude, probability, and severity of climate threats specific to sea level rise and precipitation from severe 
storms and produce planning documents specific to seal level rise and storm draining infrastructure.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with receiving this program update or for submitting a letter supporting the grant 
application.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This bicycle and pedestrian programs update and request for approval of the letter of support is not a project subject to 
CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in 
the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Letter of Support
STAFF CONTACT
Nicolette Chan, Associate Transportation Planner
nchan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7326
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
9 of 81

--- page 10 ---
· Main Line (650) 522-7000 · 
                                                                            
January 10, 2024
California Department of Transportation
Division of Transportation Planning
1120 N Street
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Grant Proposal for the Downtown San Mateo Area Plan
To Whom It May Concern,
On behalf of the San Mateo Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, I am writing to express my strong 
support of the City of San Mateo’s grant application for the Caltrans Sustainable Communities program for 
the proposed Downtown San Mateo Area Plan (the Plan). This plan aims to create a comprehensive, data-
driven, and community-based plan focused on land use and multimodal transportation for the heart of San 
Mateo. This endeavor seeks to shape a future vision for Downtown, encompassing aspects such as business, 
housing, community, major infrastructure for active transportation and curb management, and recreation 
needs in alignment with the General Plan 2040 and to meet the City and state climate goals. 
To preserve San Mateo as a desirable place to live, work, visit, and raise a family, it is crucial to plan a 
downtown center that embodies the community's aspirations. The integration of housing, job centers, 
shopping, and dining in close proximity to transit promotes a vibrant urban environment where people can 
live, work, play, and shop without heavy reliance on cars. An active downtown not only facilitates cultural 
and entertainment events but also contributes to the city's fiscal health. Recognizing this, the General Plan 
calls for the update of the Downtown Area Plan, last adopted in 2009, to reimagine how the downtown can 
grow to meet the community's future needs.
Given the effort of the City and region to encourage multimodal transportation, equitable access to 
transportation, and planning cohesively to ensure coordination between land use and transportation, 
identifying necessary improvements for the future of Downtown San Mateo is of utmost importance.  We 
believe this would be a project that would advance our goals and objectives. Toward this end, we strongly 
support the City of San Mateo’s grant application for this project. 
Thank you for your time and consideration.
Sincerely,
Susan Rowinski
Chair, Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
    
SUSTAINABILITY AND INFRASTRUCTURE COMMISSION
    
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
                                                     www.cityofsanmateo.org  
(650) 522-7000
10 of 81

--- page 11 ---
THE FOLLOWING PUBLIC
COMMENTS WERE SUBMITTED
FOLLOWING THE PUBLICATION

OF THE AGENDA PACKET

11 of 81


--- page 12 ---
From: Mike Swire qqppgegpismntistetieememmmtermremms
Sent: Wednesday, January 10, 2024 9:55 AM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Bike/ped questions

Happy New Year SIC Members and Staff,

Thank you for your work in making the streets safer for those who walk and bike. In anticipation of this evening's discussion on
these issues, | had some questions for the committee and staff:

1). What is the status of the Hillsdale Bicycle & Pedestrian Bridge project? This project was first studied in 2007 (!). The City
promoted this project to the public in 2014. An EIR and NegDec was issued in 2016. Caltrans approved the project in

2018. SMCTA allocated money to the project. And yet there is no bridge in place. As a result, there are no good options for
people on foot or cyclists to cross 101 in this area (e.g., to get to Foster City or the Bay Trail). Over this period, a cyclist was
killed on the Hillsdale overpass, ironically by a Caltrans SUV driver. Other injuries and near misses have certainly occurred here,
not to mention all those who are too scared to cross on foot or bike due to the danger and lack of comfort. Questions:

- When will this project be completed?

- Is the delay related to the recently completed widening of Highway 101? How so?

- How much more will this project cost due to the delay or new configuration of 101 and has the City had to return money to
SMCTA or other funding agencies due to delays?

2) At the end of last year, three children were hit while walking or biking en route to or in front of schools inSM. Questions:

- What analysis of these crashes has been completed?

- What quick build projects (not long-term studies) have been implemented to address the concerns raised by these analyses?
- What is the process/website/phone number for the community to make staff aware of these incidents and ensure that the
City rapidly responds (not long-term studies; more like what happened on Franklin and was featured on CNN)?

3). Regarding 28th Avenue, we need greater improvements to make this truly friendly to the many people who would like to
bike this important corridor. The west side of El Camino has some good speed humps but more are needed - roughly 2 per block
- to truly discourage speeding and cut-through traffic. Crossing ECR westbound is very dangerous as cyclists don't have
dedicated or protected space and must merge with auto traffic at high speeds. The area around Nueva School and Bay
Meadows Park needs speed control - it is a race track and the recent scene of a fiery crash next to the park. This area has an
enormous number of children, including youth playing AYSO or little league at the park as well as the numerous Nueva students
who walk to the Caltrain station (instead of getting dropped off by their parents).

Thank you for your service and please let me know if you have any questions,
Mike Swire

Ene

Shirase

Appointee to SMCTA Citizen Advisory Committee

Appointee to C/CAG Bicycle & Pedestrian Advisory Committee
(speaking as an individual, however)

12 of 81


--- page 13 ---
Bicycle and Pedestrian 
Program Update
January 10, 2024
Nicolette Chan
Associate Transportation Planner
Sue-Ellen Atkinson
Principal Transportation Planner
13 of 81

--- page 14 ---
OVERVIEW
• Infrastructure Projects
• Planning Projects
• Grant Update
• Request for Chair to sign grant letter of support
2
14 of 81

--- page 15 ---
Infrastructure Projects


--- page 16 ---
Infrastructure Projects
Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor
• Scope: 19th Avenue to Pacific Boulevard
• Design and construction of a Class IV separated bike lane 
and bicycle boulevard
• Total grant funding: $1.66M
• Status:
• Contract for consultant services awarded in 
December 2023
• Staff coordinating with consultant to kick off project
19th Ave
Pacific 
Blvd
4
16 of 81

--- page 17 ---
Infrastructure Projects
28th Avenue Gap Closure Project
Existing Class I 
and bike 
boulevard
• Design and environmental review for 
bicycle and pedestrian connectivity
• Status
• Developed three design alternatives 
for an on-street bicycle facility
• Community Meeting held on Nov. 16 
at Hillsdale Branch Library
• Presentation to the Commission at 
January 2024 meeting
Proposed Class IV Separated 
Bike Lane
Proposed Class II Bike Lane
Segment Bike Facility Proposed in the 
2020 Bicycle Master Plan
A
B
A
B
5
17 of 81

--- page 18 ---
Infrastructure Projects
Smooth Streets Program
Scope
• Sunnybrae Blvd from 
Delaware St to S. Amphlett
Blvd
• Class III bicycle boulevard, 
traffic calming, and 
pedestrian improvements
Status
• Bicycle boulevard is complete
• Striping at Folkstone Ave 
intersection expected in early 
2024 following outreach
Scope
• South Grant St from Concar Dr 
to 16th Ave
• Class III bicycle boulevard 
and traffic calming
• Norfolk Street from Lodi Ave to 
Kehoe Ave and Dale Avenue to 
Dakota Ave 
• Update Class II bike lanes 
and pavement markings
Status
• In design
Phase 3
Phase 5-B
6
18 of 81

--- page 19 ---
Infrastructure Projects
4th and 5th Railroad Crossing Improvement
• Class II Bike Lane on 5th Avenue 
• Scope: B Street to Railroad Avenue
• Status:
• Bike lanes are complete
• Electrical work expected to be complete 
in January 2024
7
19 of 81

--- page 20 ---
Infrastructure Projects
School Zone Speed Limits 
Implementation of reduced speed limits in 
qualifying school zones
• 15 mph within 500 feet of school
• 25 mph between 500-1000 feet
Eligibility based on State Law (CVC 22358.4)
8
20 of 81

--- page 21 ---
School Zone Speed Limits 
Status of Phases
• Phase 1 (Public Elementary and Middle 
Schools) – Complete
• Phase 2 (Private Elementary and Middle 
Schools) and Phase 3 (High Schools)
• Construction contract was awarded 
January 2, 2024
• Construction expected to be complete in 
early Spring 2024
Map of Phase 2 and 3 schools available at 
www.cityofsanmateo.org/SlowforStudents 
9
21 of 81

--- page 22 ---
Infrastructure Projects
19thAvenue/Fashion Island 
Class IV Bikeway
• Joint project with SMCTA and SamTrans
• Feasibility, design, and construction of 
Class IV bike facility with Smart Corridor 
elements
• Connects to future mobility hub and 
complements 101/92 Interchange Project
• Status:
• Identifying conceptual design 
alternatives
• Presentation to the Sustainability 
and Infrastructure Commission and 
City Council in early 2024.
10
22 of 81

--- page 23 ---
Infrastructure Projects
Hillsdale Boulevard Traffic Signal Design
Scope
• Assess and design traffic signal 
operations at Hillsdale Boulevard and 
Alameda de las Puglas
• Corridor analysis to inform future bike 
and pedestrian projects  
Status
• Developing outreach strategy and 
operational analysis for the corridor
• Anticipate outreach around Spring 2024
Hillsdale Boulevard
11
23 of 81

--- page 24 ---
Planning Projects


--- page 25 ---
• New, comprehensive multimodal plan
• Combines Pedestrian Master Plan, Bicycle Master Plan, Sustainable Streets Plan, Green 
Infrastructure Plan
• Supports General Plan 2040 with projects that focus on safety for all modes, including 
design standards, streetscape concepts, and specific priority projects
• Status:
• Presented to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission and City Council in mid-
October 2023
• Phase 2 Community Engagement completed
Planning Projects
San Mateo Complete Streets Plan
13
25 of 81

--- page 26 ---
Baywood Elementary School 
(PTA Meeting) 
Sunnybrae Elementary School
Shoreview Recreation Center
San Mateo Complete Streets Plan
October and November 2023 Focus Group Meetings
14
26 of 81

--- page 27 ---
San Mateo Complete Streets Plan – Next Steps
Finalizing High Needs Corridors
Developing Draft Plan, Design Standards Manual 
and Phase 3 outreach strategy
Phase 3 outreach expected in early 2024
15
27 of 81

--- page 28 ---
Planning Projects
Complete Streets North 
Central Plan
• Focused transportation planning 
document for North Central
• Understand the lived experience and 
identify transportation needs and goals
• Status:
• Completed Phase 1 Engagement
• Lived Experience Group meeting #2 
scheduled for late-January 2024
• Anticipate presenting to the City 
Council in early 2024
16
28 of 81

--- page 29 ---
Complete Streets North Central Plan
Phase 1 Engagement Events – Oct. 2023 to Jan. 2024
Pop-Up Events
•Food Distribution event at Macedonia Church of 
God-Christ (Delaware Street and Tilton Avenue)
•Chat and Hot Chocolate at Community Baptist 
Church (15 S. Humboldt Street) 
Focus Groups
•‘House Party’ with North Central residents on 
College Avenue (2x)
•Home Association of North Central San Mateo 
(HANCSM) Meeting
17
29 of 81

--- page 30 ---
Complete Streets North Central Plan
Engagement Schedule
Define neighborhood needs and 
goal setting
Phase 1: Listening
Community-led and data supported 
recommendations 
Phase 2: Co-Creation 
Prioritization and Priority Project 
Development 
Phase 3: Review
Complete
Spring 2024
Summer 2024
18
30 of 81

--- page 31 ---
Planning Projects
Citywide Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Ordinance
• Comprehensive approach to transportation demand 
management by recommending trip reduction goals 
throughout the City
• Funded by MTC technical assistance grant
• Total Project Cost: $150,000
• Status:
• Developing draft TDM ordinance and guidelines
• Update to the Planning Commission, 
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, 
and City Council in Spring 2024
Remote 
Work
Carshare
Public 
Transit & 
Paratransit
Taxicabs 
& TNCs
Walking
Biking & 
Bikeshare
Rideshar
e
Land Use 
Changes
19
31 of 81

--- page 32 ---
Planning Projects
Local Road Safety Plan (LRSP)
• Analyze collision patterns in the City to 
recommend prioritized safety improvements
• Required for Caltrans funding eligibility
• Status
• Reviewing Draft Plan
• Presentation to the Sustainability and 
Infrastructure Commission in Winter 2024
20
32 of 81

--- page 33 ---
Grant Update


--- page 34 ---
Transportation Development Act 
Article 3 Bike and Pedestrian 
Program
• Staff submitted grant application to:
• Design a station entrance on the northeast 
side of the San Mateo Caltrain Station
• Improve pedestrian access to transit on 
Cypress Avenue
• Goals
• Reduce barrier to transit for riders coming 
from north of the station
• Make the walking route to transit safer and 
more comfortable
Project Area
22
34 of 81

--- page 35 ---
Caltrans Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Program
1. Sustainable Communities Grant
• Update the Downtown Area Plan (2009) and develop a Downtown San Mateo 
Area Plan
• Staff Recommendation: Consider signing the letter of support for the grant 
application and authorize the Chair to sign the letter on behalf of the Commission
2. Climate Adaptation Planning Grant
• Develop a Climate Adaptation Plan to assess climate threats specific to sea level 
rise and update the City’s Stormwater Master Plan (2004)
23
35 of 81

--- page 36 ---
Commission Action
Approve a letter of support to the California Department of 
Transportation for the Sustainable Communities Grant Program FY24-
25 grant application, and authorize the Chair to sign the letter on 
behalf of the Commission.
24
36 of 81

--- page 37 ---
Thank You
Sue-Ellen Atkinson
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7288
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicworks
Nicolette Chan
nchan@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7326
25
37 of 81

--- page 38 ---
28th Avenue Gap Closure Project 
– Design Alternatives
Alternative B: 
Two-way Bike Facility on the North 
Side of 28th Ave.
Alternative C: 
One-Way Bike Facilities with Priority 
for Pedestrians at Signals
28th Ave Between ECR and Delaware, Looking East
Existing Conditions
Alternative A:
One-way Bike Facilities on Each 
Side of 28th Ave.
26
38 of 81

--- page 39 ---
28th Avenue Gap Closure Project -
Community Meeting
27
39 of 81

--- page 40 ---
28th Avenue Gap Closure Project – Design Alternatives
28th Ave Between El Camino Real and Delaware, Looking East
Existing Conditions
Alternative A:
One-way Bike 
Facilities on Each 
Side of 28th Ave.
28
40 of 81

--- page 41 ---
28th Avenue Gap Closure Project – Design Alternatives
Alternative B: 
Two-way Bike Facility 
on the North Side of 
28th Ave.
Alternative C: 
One-Way Bike Facilities 
with Priority for 
Pedestrians at Signals
28th Ave Between El Camino Real and Delaware, Looking East
29
41 of 81

--- page 42 ---
Future Phases: TBD

\ i) aw \

Lead: City of San Mateo

| Delaware Safe Routes

Protected Bike Lane

Installation of bicycle infrastructure
identified in the BMP. _ 5
Status: Environmental Phase 7.

PS&E Completion: 07/2025 (est.)
CON: 06/2027 (est.)

rs)

ea’s

>

“Sueme}

») (Est. Completion 02/2023) 1)

19 Avenue Fashion Island Corridor — Planned Project Map — :
4 Lead: City of San Mateo rf
MS % ; % 6 Re-striping Existing Configuration Ke
& . ° y %. ! @, Re-striping of the Mariners bridge to increase o “
> NY \ #, © vehicle throughput. A
» ¥ : J, Status: Planning (Est. Completion 01/23) pp
‘ a Lead: TA.and C/CAG ! Future Phase: TBD S
Re US101/92 S.T.A.P (IP #3} y ®
ote _«_ Exit Ramp Modification
> 4X9 \ Status: PS&E Phase (5/22 - 6/24) \ Uy Lead: City of San Mateo Wf
y Ane CON: 08/2024 (est) Intersection Reconstruction Intersection & ry
4 O, & Uy AS Ks) reconstruction to increase vehicle 9, &;
0, Sy x throughput and increased pedestrian 4 Y
Lead: T Aor safety.
19th Avenue Bike Lone % a Status: Planning (Est. Completion 01/23)
Installation of the bike Lead: TA and SamTrans Future Phase: TBD
\ infrastructure as identifyin BMP. «= Mobility Hub
( Status: Submitted TA Bike/Ped | ™ Construction of a mobility hub for
Grant for Planning and Design (If = | warious modes of transportation
\ “awarded est. completion of Status: Planning phase (Est.
\ Planning phase in 2024) Completion 2024)

Future Phases: TBD

JULIO

iS

‘rmudasDr

Lead: City of San Mateo
Bi-Directional Lane
Configuration

Converting the existing
one-way roadway to two-
way.

Status: Planning Phase
(Est. Completion 01/23)
Future Phases: TBD

Vv
‘

A.

Lead: TA and C/CAG

5101/92 5.1.4. (IP #2)

Lane Merge Modification

From US101 to EB SR92

Status: PS&E Phase (5/22 - 6/24)
CON: 08/2024 (est)

Lead; TA and C/CAG
US101/92 S.1.A.P (IP #1)
Ramp Modification
Status: PS&E Phase (5/22 - 6/24)
© CON: 08/2024 (est)

a ROce
. )

Lead: City of San Mateo

Program for Arterial System Synchronization (PASS)
Increase safety and optimize vehicle throughput by the
means of signal timing.

Status: Implementation Phase (Est. Completion 01/23)

2 at

Ae



--- page 43 ---
High Injury 
Network
This map shows where fatal and 
severe pedestrian, bicycle, and 
automobile injury collisions; youth 
collisions; and active injury 
collisions occurred. 
Includes LRSP priority intersections 
and segments.
31
43 of 81

--- page 44 ---
Infrastructure Projects
Completed Since 2020
• 5th Avenue Bicycle Facilities
• 28th Avenue Bicycle Boulevard
• 28th Avenue Shared Use Path
• North Central Bike Lanes
• North San Mateo Drive Bike Lane
• Laurie Meadows Buffered Bike 
Lane
• South Humboldt Street Bike Lane
• Pacific Avenue Bike Lane
32
44 of 81

--- page 45 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-8264
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Brad Underwood
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 10, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project - Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an informational update on the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project and provide feedback 
to staff.
BACKGROUND:
The City was awarded funding from the San Mateo County Transportation Authority (SMCTA) for the Measure A/W 
Pedestrian and Bicycle Program Cycle 5 in December 2020 for the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure 
Project. In September 2022, the Public Works Department entered into an agreement with Belleci & Associates, Inc. for 
engineering and planning services to assist the City with design and community engagement for the project. The 
agreement was amended in June 2023 to expand the project scope of work to include 28th Avenue from the Hillsdale 
Caltrain Station to East Kyne Street. 
The original project scope included the design of a Class IV separated bike lane from Edison Street to El Camino Real and 
bicycle and pedestrian improvements at the El Camino Real intersection. These improvements aimed to safely transition 
bicyclists from the existing bicycle boulevard at Edison Street across El Camino Real to the existing Class I bicycle facility 
leading to the Hillsdale Caltrain Station. Following project kick off in November 2022 and a walking tour in February 2023, 
there was a need to expand the project extents to include portions of 28th Avenue east of El Camino Real. 
With the expanded scope of work, the project aims to design a fully connected bikeway on 28th Avenue from Edison Street 
to East Kyne Street and provide a safe path of travel for bicyclists and pedestrians accessing the Hillsdale Caltrain station 
and traveling east-west on 28th Avenue. The project will design implementation of two bicycle facilities proposed in the 
2020 Bicycle Master Plan: The Class II bike lane from Delaware Street to East Kyne Street and the Class IV separated bike 
lane from the original project scope. Furthermore, the project will develop and assess options to provide safe crossings for 
bicyclists and pedestrians at the El Camino Real, Delaware Street, and Kyne Street intersections. 
The Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure project will result in a construction-ready design that 
encompasses the alignments best suited to the location based on safety, connectivity, and community engagement. 
Completed to Date
The following is an update on the tasks completed to date for the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure 
project:
•
Walking Tour: Staff and the consultant team conducted a walking tour at the project site in February 2023 with the 
45 of 81

--- page 46 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Stakeholder Advisory Committee, which includes staff from the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department and 
Police Department, Caltrans, Caltrain, SamTrans, Commute.org, and the Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition (SVBC) San 
Mateo. Staff and Committee members walked the project route while discussing safety issues and behaviors 
observed, experienced, or heard about, and shared transportation goals from each members’ respective 
agency/organization that align with this project. 
o
The Committee members’ feedback from the walking tour led to staff’s recommendation to expand the scope 
of work to East Kyne Street which was approved at the June 2023 City Council meeting.
•
Design Alternatives: Staff and the consultant team developed three design options for implementing an on-street 
bicycle facility: 
▪
One-way bike facility;
▪
Two-way bike facility on the north side of 28th Avenue; and 
▪
One-way bike facility with priority for pedestrians at signals. 
Each alternative has different bicycle elements, such as bicycle boxes and two-stage turn boxes, and bikeway 
transitions for the community to consider. Parking removal in some amount would be necessary for all alternatives 
between Edison Street and El Camino Real to accommodate an on-street bikeway.
o
Staff and the consultant team will present the design alternatives to the Commission and request 
Commission’s feedback. The designs can be viewed on the project website at 
www.cityofsanmateo.org/GapClosure.
•
Community Meeting and Online Engagement: Staff and the consultant team held a community meeting on 
November 16, 2023 at the Hillsdale Branch Library from 6-7:30pm. The intent of the meeting was to inform the 
community about the project and potential parking removal, and collect feedback on the three design alternatives. 
At the meeting, attendees viewed each design alternative on large paper and shared which bikeway elements they 
thought would make traveling on 28th Avenue safer and more comfortable for all ages and abilities. 
The meeting was attended by nine people who live near the project, currently travel on 28th Avenue, and/or would 
like to travel on 28th Avenue in the future. The designs were posted on the project webpage and online feedback 
was accepted by email from November 16 to December 1, 2023. Staff received online feedback from four 
community members in addition to feedback from the Stakeholder Advisory Committee members.
o
Meeting attendees generally liked the all-way stop control at the Edison intersection and having a loading zone 
in the eastbound direction at the Caltrain overpass and disliked when bicyclists must transition from being 
adjacent to the curb to the left side of a right turn lane. Staff and the consultant team will present the findings 
from the engagement effort to the Commission. The community engagement report summarizing the effort is 
included as Attachment 1.
Next Steps
Following the presentation, the Commission will be asked to provide feedback on the design alternatives. Staff and the 
consultant team will use the feedback provided by the Commission and engagement effort to determine the preferred 
design and project work will continue to prepare a preliminary (30%) design plan and construction estimate.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact associated with this project update. The funding for the plan is budgeted in the 28th Avenue 
Gap Closure project (46m004) and is provided through a San Mateo County Transportation Authority Measure A/W 
Pedestrian and Bicycle Program grant with local matching funds.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 –  Community Engagement Summary Report
46 of 81

--- page 47 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Nicolette Chan, Associate Transportation Planner
nchan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7326
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
47 of 81

--- page 48 ---
Prepared December 8, 2023  
 
1 | P a g e  
 
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bike Access Gap Closure Project 
Community Engagement Summary 
Community engagement for the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bike Access Gap Closure project was conducted 
in November 2023. The following summarizes how outreach was conducted, who was reached, and what 
was heard from the community. 
Community Meeting 
The project team held a Community Meeting at the Hillsdale Branch Library on November 16, 2023 from 
6pm to 7:30pm to inform the community about the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bike Access Gap Closure 
project and collect feedback on three design alternatives for implementing an on-street bike facility on 
28th Avenue between Edison Street to East Kyne Street.  
Meeting Format 
At the start of the meeting, the project team had a brief presentation (Attachment A) to introduce the 
project goals, educate attendees about the types of bicycle facilities and elements, and explain the 
design alternatives. After the presentation, attendees had the opportunity to review the design 
alternatives (Attachment B) on large roll plots and provide their feedback by marking the roll plots with 
stickers and post-it notes. City staff and Fehr & Peers staff were available to answer questions attendees 
have about the project.  
While reviewing the design alternatives, participants were asked to consider the following key questions: 
1. What are your ideas, concerns, and feedback on the design alternatives? 
2. What makes walking, biking, and/or taking transit more comfortable to you? 
3. What else would improve 28th Avenue? 
Online Feedback 
To complement the in-person meeting, online input on the design alternatives was accepted from 
November 16 to December 1, 2023. The design alternatives were posted on the project webpage1 and 
an email was provided for submitting feedback. A presentation was also provided on the project 
webpage to explain the project goals and familiarize reviewers with the bicycle elements and bicycle 
facilities proposed in the design alternatives. Reviewers were asked to consider the same questions 
mentioned in the previous section. 
Additional Outreach 
In addition to the community meeting and online input, the project website link was distributed via 
outdoor street decals placed strategically along 28th Avenue. Postcards containing information about the 
project and community meeting were delivered in person to Jayli’s Cocina, a food truck that parks on 
28th Avenue and El Camino Real, and the 76 Gas Station at the southwest corner of 28th Avenue and El 
 
1 www.cityofsanmateo.org/GapClosure 
48 of 81

--- page 49 ---
Prepared December 8, 2023  
 
2 | P a g e  
 
Camino Real. To further notify the community about the project and meeting, 546 postcards were 
mailed to residents, schools, and businesses in the Hillsdale and Bay Meadows neighborhood. Emails 
were also sent to school administrators at Abbott Middle School, Hillsdale High School, and the Nueva 
School, the Bay Meadows Neighborhood Alliance and Community Association, and the Stakeholder 
Advisory Committee to share through their organization’s channels. 
Distributed materials can be found in Attachment C. 
Community Input Summary 
Nine community members attended the community meeting and nine emails received with feedback on 
the design alternatives that were posted on the project webpage. The following summarizes the input 
heard in-person and online. 
Please note, the comments in black text summarize input received at the in-person community meeting 
on November 16th. Comments in bold and black text appeared multiple times on roll plots from 
community meeting. Blue comments are direct quotes from the online input that were submitted to the 
City staff by email. 
Universal Comments 
• 
“Include a un/loading zone at the base of the stairs to accommodate un/loading of 
passengers and hopefully help keep everyone safer.” 
• 
“Can't Caltrain auto passenger loading  be accommodated in one or both parking lots in 
spaces near the driveway?” 
• 
“For this and for any traffic-related study or design, the street and pedestrian lighting should 
be reviewed.”  
• 
“As a broader comment, I am disappointed in the low level and investment in the 28th 
Avenue bicycle/pedestrian/traffic calming facilities west of Edison.  But I have submitted 
comments on that for other studies.” 
Alternative A Comments 
Edison to ECR 
• 
Disliked maintaining parking on southside, preferred curbside bike lane 
• 
Dislike transition from curbside to left of right turn lane 
• 
Like new crossing on north leg at ECR 
• 
Like dedicated space for eastbound bikes at the intersection of ECR 
• 
Like all-way stop-control and transition to/from bike boulevard at Edison 
ECR to Delaware 
• 
At Delaware, consider adding two-stage left-turn boxes for left turns from 28th  
• 
Dislike transition from curbside lane to left side of right turn lane 
• 
Add pedestrian crossing under Caltrain overpass 
• 
Dislike split ramp and stair access for bikes to get to Caltrain  
• 
Dislike that bus loading would occur in the through lane 
49 of 81

--- page 50 ---
Prepared December 8, 2023  
 
3 | P a g e  
 
• 
Like the bike boxes at Delaware 
Delaware to Kyne 
• 
Eastbound approach to W. Kyne: Dislike the shared right turn and bike lane 
o Suggested to drop the dedicated right turn lane 
o “Concerned about the shared bike lane and right turn lane at 28th and Kyne. But I also 
think that vehicle numbers are lower at that intersection.” 
• 
Dislike transition from curbside to the left of the right turn lane 
 
Alternative B Comments 
• 
“Two-way cycle track raises safety issues.  Especially in this area, drivers are not used to such a 
facility.  But at this point, most Caltrain north parking lot users are already accustomed to the 
warnings that they're crossing a Class I path. If a two-way cycle track is used, those riding 
eastbound from, say, Edison to Delaware or Saratoga, will need to cross over twice to use it.” 
Edison to ECR 
• 
Dislike and like the transition across the intersection 
• 
Like all-way stop-control 
• 
Like the remove of bike/bus interaction on the southwest corner at ECR 
• 
Like new crossing on north side 
ECR to Delaware 
• 
Like the auxiliary loading lane 
• 
Concern that higher speeds may conflict with in-lane bus loading for westbound 28th 
• 
Unsure of driver reaction to two-way facility. Consider consistency with other facilities citywide 
Delaware to Kyne 
• Dislike signals at Kyne – consider stop control 
• Dislike two-way facility, concern about driving behavior and turning conflicts 
• Convenient to access two-way from the high school 
 
Alternative C Comments 
• 
“A major weakness of Alternative C is that eastbound bicyclists do not directly/conveniently 
access the Caltrain ramp, but again, if the Class I facility on the sidewalk remains that's not an 
issue.” 
Edison to ECR 
• 
Dislike midblock transition to bike boulevard 
50 of 81

--- page 51 ---
Prepared December 8, 2023  
 
4 | P a g e  
 
o “I don’t think it makes sense to transition mid-block.” 
• 
Like dedicated space for eastbound bikes at approach to the intersection 
• 
Remove right turn only lane to keep bikes curbside 
• 
Dislike transition to left of right turn lane 
• 
Add bike box across through lane on west leg 
• 
Shorter cycle length at the intersection of ECR 
• 
Actuated bike signal at ECR 
• 
Like maintaining parking with the midblock transition to bike boulevard 
ECR to Delaware 
• 
Like bus boarding islands 
• 
Dislike that bus loading would occur in the through lane 
• 
Dislike split ramp/stair access for bikes 
• 
Single travel lanes may discourage loading activity along 28th 
• 
“I assume this concept includes a pedestrian scramble at 28th & Delaware. This would be 
beneficial to many students at Nueva School who ride Caltrain.  At the minimum, there should 
be LPIs.” 
Delaware to Kyne 
• 
Eastbound approach to W. Kyne: Dislike the shared right turn and bike lane 
• 
Dislike signal and dedicated left turn lane for westbound traffic 
• 
Like shared right turn and bike lane 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
51 of 81

--- page 52 ---
Prepared December 8, 2023  
 
5 | P a g e  
 
Attachment A – Meeting Presentation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
52 of 81

--- page 53 ---
28th Avenue Bicycle & 
Pedestrian Improvements
Photo Source: Nick Rose, Daily Journal
Evaluating Initial Alternatives
What are we doing today?
2
Introduce the purpose, goals, and 
extent of the project
Overview of 3 design alternatives 
for the corridor
Project Next Steps
Breakout Groups: mark up the alternatives, discuss 
with other community members, provide feedback 
to the project team
Project Goals & Purpose
• Encourage active transportation and transit.
• Provide a safe connection for crossing El 
Camino Real, accessing the Hillsdale Caltrain 
Station, and traveling along 28th Avenue. 
• Design facilities which support all ages and 
abilities. 
• Consider current and future travel demands in 
the area to allocate space to people walking, 
biking, taking transit and driving or riding cars.
3
Project Extents
53 of 81

--- page 54 ---
Bicycle Facility Types
•
Exclusive right-of- way for bicyclists 
and pedestrians
•
Support recreational and practical 
travel
•
Common along/through park 
spaces
Class I Shared-Use Path
Bicycle Facility Types
•
Established along streets and 
defined by striping 
•
One-way bike facilities
Class II Bike Lane
•
Provides more separation from 
adjacent traffic lane with diagonal 
markings as a “buffer”
Class IIB Buffered Bike Lane
Bicycle Facility Types
•
Designate a preferred route for 
bicyclists on streets shared with 
motor vehicles
•
Low vehicle speeds and volumes 
preferred
Class III Bike Route
•
Use traffic calming and diversion 
measures to create safer conditions 
for streets shared with motor vehicles
Class III Bicycle Boulevard
Bicycle Facility Types
•
Exclusive right-of-way for bicyclists 
•
Physically separated from vehicle 
traffic (flex posts, bollards, parking, 
or raised median)
•
Improve level of comfort for 
bicyclists along higher-speed and/or 
heavily trafficked roadways
Class IV Separated Bikeway or 
Cycle Track
54 of 81

--- page 55 ---
Other Bicycle Elements
Bike Box
Dedicated space where 
bicyclists can wait during 
the red light at signalized 
intersections
Conflict Markings
Improve visibility of bike 
lane crossings at 
intersections and informs 
all roadway users of 
expected behaviors
Two-Stage Turn Box
Dedicated space where 
bicyclists can wait to turn 
left at signalized 
intersections
Use green phase for both 
directions
Bike Signals
Signal heads for bikes 
only, indicating when 
bikes have the right of way 
to cross an intersection
Bus Boarding Islands
We want to hear from you
11
• What are your ideas, concerns, 
and feedback on the design 
alternatives?
• What makes walking, biking 
and/or taking transit more  
comfortable for you?
• What else would improve 28th 
Avenue? 
Project Considerations & 
Constraints
12
• Designs are confined by the 
existing edge of the curb 
• All alternatives consider removal of 
parking on the north side of 28th 
Avenue between Edison Street and 
El Camino Real
55 of 81

--- page 56 ---
Alternatives
13
Alternative A: One-way Bike Facilities 
on Each Side of 28th Avenue
Alternative B: Two-way Bike Facility 
on the North Side of 28th Avenue
Alternative C: One-Way Bike Facilities 
with Priority for Pedestrians at Signals
28th Ave Between ECR and Delaware, Looking East
Existing Conditions
Alternative A
One-Way Bike Facilities 
Alternative B: 
Two-Way Bike Facility (North) 
Alternative C
One-Way Bike Facilities with 
Priority of Pedestrians at Signals
56 of 81

--- page 57 ---
Next Steps
Following tonight’s meeting, the project team will:

Summarize Feedback Received

Present an Update to Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission (Winter 2023/24)

Select a Preferred Alternative to Advance into Design
17
Website and Contact Info
To stay connected to the project and 
learn more about San Mateo’s plans 
that are influencing this project check 
out our website. 
www.cityofsanmateo.org/GapClosure
Contact Nicolette Chan:
Call: 650-522-7326
Email: nchan@cityofsanmateo.org
18
57 of 81

--- page 58 ---
Prepared December 8, 2023  
 
6 | P a g e  
 
Attachment B – Design Alternatives  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
58 of 81

--- page 59 ---
D'
ALTERNATIVE A: ONE-WAY BICYCLE FACILITIES
Edison Street
El Camino Real
Delaware Street
W. Kyne Street
E. Kyne Street
All-Way Stop
Control
"Cross Bike" striping to access
the Shared-Use Path on the
north side of 28th Ave
"Cross Bike" marking
to transition to/from
Bicycle Boulevard
Bus Boarding
Islands under the
Caltrain Station
Bike Box to facilitate
left turns onto
Delaware Street
Two-Stage Left Turn Box to
facilitate left turns from Delaware
Street to 28th Avenue
Shared Bike Lane and
Right Turn Lane
A'
A
Maintain parking
spaces on the
south side
B'
B
C'
C
D'
D
Note: Green bike lane paint is for presentation
purposes only. More detailed design study required.
Cross Section: Edison St to ECR (looking east)
A'
A
Cross Section: ECR to Delaware St. at Bus Boarding Islands (looking east)
B'
B
Cross Section: ECR to Delaware St. (looking east)
C'
C
Remove parking
on the north
side
Consider comfort
of transitioning to
the Bike Boulevard
at the intersection
Pro: One-way
facilities provide
familiar and standard
geometry for people
biking
Consider interactions
between bikes, buses,
and vehicles at this
transition
New crosswalk
Pro: One-way
facilities on either
side provides access
to the Caltrain station
on both sides
Con: Bus loading
would take place in
the through lane
Con: Only westbound
cyclists have access to
Caltrain bike ramp access
on the north side
Consider interaction
between bikes and
vehicles at this
transition
Parking removal
on the east side
on approach to
intersection
D
Cross Section: Delaware St. to W. Kyne St. (looking east)
59 of 81

--- page 60 ---
ALTERNATIVE B: TWO-WAY BICYCLE FACILITIES (NORTH SIDE)
Note: Green bike lane paint is for presentation
purposes only. More detailed design study required.
Edison Street
El Camino Real
Delaware Street
W. Kyne Street
E. Kyne Street
All-Way Stop
Control
"Cross Bike" striping to
access the cycle track and
Shared-Use Path on the
north side of 28th Ave
"Cross Bike" marking
to transition to/from
Bicycle Boulevard
Bus Boarding Island
Maintain parking
spaces on the
south side
Two-stage turn box
for eastbound bikes
to transition onto
two-way cycle track
Curb-side
parking and
loading lane
A'
A
B'
B
C'
C
Cross Section: ECR to Delaware St. (looking east)
B'
B
"Cross Bike" striping for
northbound bikes to access
the cycle track
Remove parking
on the north
side
Pro: Two-way facility
 provides access to
Caltrain station ramp
on the north side
Consider transition
between Bicycle
Boulevard and
two-way facility
New crosswalk
Con: Bus loading
would take place in
the through lane
Parking removal
on the east side
on approach to
intersection
Con: Bus stop is
slightly further from
Caltrain entrance
Con: Bike facility
geometry is less
intuitive than one-way
facilities
No Right Turn on Red
to prevent conflicts
with bicyclists
Pro: Allows loading for
eastbound bus, ride-hailing
services, and kiss & ride
loading on the south side
without blocking the travel
lane
Pro: No interaction
between bicyclists
and vehicles in
eastbound direction
Pro: No interaction
between SamTrans
buses/vehicles and
eastbound bicycles
Cross Section: Edison St to ECR (looking east)
A'
A
C'
C
Cross Section: Delaware St. to W. Kyne St. (looking east)
60 of 81

--- page 61 ---
Cross Section: Edison St to ECR (looking east)
A'
A
ALTERNATIVE C: ONE-WAY BICYCLE FACILITIES WITH PRIORITY FOR PEDESTRIANS AT SIGNALS
Note: Green bike lane paint is for presentation
purposes only. More detailed design study required.
Edison Street
El Camino Real
Delaware Street
W. Kyne Street
E. Kyne Street
El Camino Real
W. Kyne Street
E. Kyne Street
All-Way Stop
Control
"Cross Bike" striping to access
the Shared-Use Path on the
north side of 28th Ave
"Cross Bike" marking
to transition from
Bicycle Boulevard
Bus Boarding
Islands under the
Caltrain Station
Two-Stage Left Turn Box to
facilitate left turns from Delaware
Street to 28th Avenue
Shared Bike Lane and
Right Turn Lane
A'
A
Maintain parking
spaces on the
south side
B'
B
C'
C
D'
D
Cross Section: ECR to Delaware St. at Bus Boarding Islands (looking east)
B'
B
Cross Section: ECR to Delaware St. (looking east)
C'
C
Transition to
Bike Boulevard
mid-block
Remove parking
on the north
side
Pro: One-way
facilities provide
familiar and standard
geometry for people
biking
Consider interactions
between bikes, buses,
and vehicles at this
transition
New crosswalk
Con: Bus loading
would take place in
the through lane
Pro: Pedestrians
have their own
signal to cross the
intersection in any
direction
Consider comfort of
interactions between
bikes and vehicles at
this transition
Pro: One-way
facilities on either
side provides access
to the Caltrain station
on both sides
Con: Only westbound
cyclists have access to
Caltrain bike ramp access
on the north side
No Right Turn on Red to
prevent conflicts with
bicyclists (throughout all
signals)
Consider interaction
between bikes and
vehicles at this
transition
D'
D
Cross Section: Delaware St. to W. Kyne St. (looking east)
61 of 81

--- page 62 ---
Prepared December 8, 2023  
 
7 | P a g e  
 
Attachment C – Outreach Materials 
Sidewalk Decal 
 
Project Flyer 
 
62 of 81

--- page 63 ---
Prepared December 8, 2023  
 
8 | P a g e  
 
Project Postcard (Side 1) 
 
Project Postcard (Side 2) 
 
63 of 81

--- page 64 ---
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access
Gap Closure Project
J a n u a r y  1 0 ,  2 0 2 4
F I L L
WI TH
PI C TUR E
64 of 81

--- page 65 ---
1. Project Overview
2. Design Alternatives
3. Outreach Summary
4. Questions for Commission
5. Next Steps
Agenda
2
65 of 81

--- page 66 ---
• Do the alternatives respond to transportation needs of 
the area and meet project goals?
• What parts from each alternative make walking, biking, 
and/or taking transit more comfortable on 28th 
Avenue? Less comfortable?
• What else would improve 28th Avenue that we may 
have missed?
Questions 
for 
Commission
3
66 of 81

--- page 67 ---
•
Encourage active transportation and transit use
•
Provide safe connections to the station and 
along 28th Avenue
•
Support all ages and abilities
•
Allocate space to meet current and future 
travel demands
F I L L
WI TH
PI C TURE
Project Overview
G O A L S  A N D  P U R P O S E
4
67 of 81

--- page 68 ---
•
Awarded grant funds from SMCTA Bike and 
Ped Program in December 2020
•
Original project extents - 28th Avenue from 
Edison Street to El Camino Real
•
Project kicked off in November 2022
•
Stakeholder Advisory Committee walking tour 
held in February 2023
•
Initial alternatives developed
•
Project scope expanded in June 2023 to extend 
project extents from Edison to E. Kyne Street
Project Overview
P R O J E C T  H I S TO R Y
5
68 of 81

--- page 69 ---
Project Extents

Class II (proposed Class
IV) Bike Lanes along
Delaware north of 28th

é
Bike Boulevard G
West of Edison 6
M
§
: Existing Multi-Use Path
Existing Multi-Use Path

— | Le San Bike Boulevard
aHey : 4 — eh einai East of Kyne

1234 Ounue> 13

~
—
ims,

tien

Caltrain Overpass

1BaINS SEMeIag = —
1PENS suAy ™
193.35 SUuAY 3

Bike Boulevard along
Delaware south of 28th Class II Bike Lanes along
Kyne south of 28th

69 of 81


--- page 70 ---
•
Designs are confined by the existing edge of 
the curb. 
•
All alternatives consider removal of parking on 
the north side of 28th Avenue between Edison 
Street and El Camino Real.
•
Caltrain underpass includes structural support 
columns that need to be designed around.
•
Maintain existing bus service.
•
Connectivity to existing and future bicycle 
facilities on either end of the Project Limits and 
along Delaware Street.
F I L L
WI TH
PI C TURE
Project Overview
C O N S T R A I N T S  A N D  C O N S I D E R AT I O N S
7
70 of 81

--- page 71 ---
Alternative A
O N E  WAY  FA C I L I T I E S
8
71 of 81

--- page 72 ---
Alternative B
T W O - WAY  C Y C L E  T R A C K  ( N O R T H  S I D E )
9
72 of 81

--- page 73 ---
Alternative C
O N E  WAY  FA C I L I T I E S  W I T H  P E D E S T R I A N  P R I O R I T Y  AT  S I G N A L S
10
73 of 81

--- page 74 ---
O P P O R T U N I T I E S  F O R  I N P U T
In-Person Community Meeting
• Held November 16, 2023 at Hillsdale Branch Library from 6 to 7:30pm
• Community members provided input on elements of the alternatives 
they liked or disliked
Project Webpage
• Alternatives and supporting presentation posted to project webpage: 
www.cityofsanmateo.org/GapClosure
• Online input accepted from November 16th through December 1st
Community Engagement
11
74 of 81

--- page 75 ---
U N I V E R S A L
Comments and Questions:
• How can the project improve passenger loading/unloading 
at the base of the Caltrain station stairs?
• Pedestrian lighting should be studied in the project area
• How can the project consider investment in the Bicycle 
Boulevards along 28th Avenue east/west of the project area?
• Like the new crossing on the north leg of El Camino Real
Community Feedback
See Community Engagement Summary 
attached to Staff Report for more 
details.
12
75 of 81

--- page 76 ---
A L T E R N A T I V E  A :  ONE WAY FACILIT IES
Likes:
• Dedicated space for eastbound bikes at the intersection of 
ECR
• All-way stop-control and transition to/from bike boulevard 
at Edison
Community Feedback
Dislikes:
• Split ramp and stair access for bikes to get to Caltrain 
• Bus loading would occur in lane
• Transitions from curbside bike lanes to left side of right 
turn lane
13
76 of 81

--- page 77 ---
A L T E R N A T I V E  B :  T WO- WAY CYCLE T RACK (NORT H SIDE)
Likes:
• All-way stop-control at Edison St
• Auxiliary loading zone on the south side between ECR 
and Delaware
• Convenient access to the facility for the Nueva School
Community Feedback
Dislikes:
• Concerned the facility will experience more conflicts with 
turning drivers and present safety issues for counterflow 
bikes
• Transitions to/from Bicycle Boulevard 
• In-Lane bus loading (westbound)
14
77 of 81

--- page 78 ---
A L T E R N A T I V E  C :  ONE WAY FACILIT IES WIT H PEDEST RIAN PRIORIT Y AT  SIGNALS
Likes:
• Dedicated space for eastbound bikes at ECR
• Bus boarding islands
• Single travel lanes may discourage loading activity along 28th Ave
• Pedestrian priority phasing
Community Feedback
Dislikes:
• Midblock transition to the bicycle boulevard (westbound)
• Transition to left side of the right turn lane at ECR
• Split stair/ramp access to Caltrain
• In-lane bus loading
15
78 of 81

--- page 79 ---
Develop three alternatives
Seek input from the community
Incorporate input from the 
Sustainability & Infrastructure 
Commission 
Select preferred alternative
Initiate design phase
Next Steps
J A N  2 0 2 4
N O V  2 0 2 3
F A L L  2 0 2 3
16
79 of 81

--- page 80 ---
• Do the alternatives respond to transportation needs of 
the area and meet project goals?
• What parts from each alternative make walking, biking, 
and/or taking transit more comfortable on 28th 
Avenue? Less comfortable?
• What else would improve 28th Avenue that we may 
have missed?
Questions 
for 
Commission
17
80 of 81

--- page 81 ---
• Nicolette Chan, Associate Transportation Planner
• nchan@cityofsanmateo.org 
• Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
• Seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.com
Thank you!
18
81 of 81