--- page 1 ---
The San Francisco Standard


--- page 2 ---


--- page 3 ---
The San Francisco Police Department said the agencies no
longer have access to its data. | Justin Sullivan/Getty Images
News
SFPD let Georgia, Texas cops illegally search city
surveillance data on behalf of ICE
Out-of-state authorities made 1.6 million searches of San Francisco’s license-
plate reader data — likely in violation of California law.
By Tomo Chien
News Reporter
Published Sep. 8, 2025 at 6:00am
San Francisco police let out-of-state cops run more than 1.6 million illegal searches of the
city’s license-plate reader database — including at least 19 that were marked as related to
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, according to records obtained by The Standard.
California sanctuary laws bar police from assisting in immigration enforcement, and another
law prohibits sharing data from automated license-plate readers with out-of-state cops for
any purpose.
The controversial surveillance technology, produced by Atlanta-based Flock Safety, captures
the license plate and description of every passing vehicle, then stores the information for use
in police investigations. In San Francisco, where 400 cameras line major roadways, it’s
nearly impossible to escape the readers’ gaze.
Share

--- page 4 ---
Cops say this technology helps them fight crime — and Flock’s easy-to-use sharing tools
make the process more effective than ever.
But reporting by The Standard, 404 Media, and others has revealed that police nationwide
are illegally handling license-plate data and giving ICE backdoor access to their Flock
networks, renewing long-held concerns about abuse of the technology.
Related
SF, Oakland cops illegally funneled license plate data to feds
California cops are breaking surveillance laws. Who’s going to stop them?
In July, The Standard reported that San Francisco Police Department personnel appeared to
be illegally searching license-plate data for investigations conducted by federal law
enforcement.
Now, newly unearthed logs show that the questionable sharing of data was far more
widespread than previously understood: The SFPD gave out-of-state agencies direct access
to the city’s data between at least August 2024 and February of this year, enabling a far
higher volume of illegal searches than was known before.
It is unclear how many searches led to "hits" — instances where police found the vehicle
they were looking for in the SFPD's system.

--- page 5 ---
Nearly 4,000 out-of-state law enforcement agencies searched the SFPD's Flock data. | The Standard
The search logs show that out-of-state agencies haven’t accessed the SFPD’s system since
Feb. 11. It’s unclear what caused the apparent cutoff. Once a police department allows an
outside agency to access its data, that agency is able to run searches without explicit
additional approval until its permissions are revoked.
“According to a recent audit of our network, it appears agencies outside California had the
ability to query SFPD’s Flock system for a limited period of time,” the SFPD wrote in a
statement. 
The department pledged to launch a transparency portal showing which agencies have access
to SFPD's license plate data.
“The SFPD is currently running routine network audits to ensure no unauthorized users are
querying SFPD's Flock data,” the department wrote. “We are confident that agencies outside

--- page 6 ---
California are not able to query our system.”
More about Technology
How this surging data cloud company is mandating AI at work
Opinion
Cartoon: The data center’s next target?
PODCAST
Inside Stanford’s quest to build the next ruling class
An SFPD spokesperson did not answer questions about the ICE-related searches.
The logs, obtained via a public records request, show every time a law enforcement agency
searched the SFPD’s license-plate reader database.
Each entry includes the agency that initiated the search, the reason for the search, the time of
submission, and the number of Flock networks the agency searched for a given plate. Police
often simultaneously search thousands of Flock networks across multiple states and
municipalities in a given query.
The SFPD redacted the reasons for searches in its public records disclosure. However, by
cross-referencing agency names and timestamps with more than 35 million unredacted Flock
searches published on the website Muckrock, The Standard filled in many of the blanks.
Listen to Pacific Standard Time
6 DAYS AGO
Who is funding the 2026 California Primary? We dig into the money on PST
Listen

--- page 7 ---
FRIDAY, MAY 22
Inside Stanford’s quest to build the next ruling class
FRIDAY, MAY 15
A Meta employee gets real about the horror of working there right now
For instance, the SFPD’s logs show that on Dec. 26 at 7:16 p.m, the Franklin County
Sheriff’s Office in Georgia made a search of San Francisco’s data that was later redacted.
But logs from the Danville Police Department in Illinois — another of the 5,757 law
enforcement agencies queried in the same search — are unredacted. The reason supplied:
“ICE FUGOPS,” an apparent reference to the agency’s Fugitive Operations program, whose
goal is to “locate, arrest and remove fugitive aliens from the United States.”
The logs show the SFPD’s data was searched at least 19 times for “ICE Fugitive,” “Assist
ICE,” or specific ICE detention numbers. The majority of those searches were made between
Oct. 23 and Dec. 27, 2024, by the Franklin County Sheriff in Georgia, the Dallas Police
Department, and the Milford Police Department in Massachusetts.
Additionally, the California Highway Patrol on April 22 searched for an “ICE case.” 
It’s unclear whether these agencies had reason to believe the targeted vehicles were in San
Francisco. Because Flock’s tools allow police to query thousands of networks at once, it’s
possible these were overbroad searches that checked every network to which the agencies
had access. 
That appears to be the case with the Milford Police Department’s search. 
Listen
Listen

--- page 8 ---
“We don’t go outside New England,” said Detective Lieutenant Kevin O’Loughlin. “If they
fled out to California, we’d contact agencies there.”
O’Loughlin said his department collaborates with ICE to arrest criminal suspects who have
Massachusetts warrants but does not enforce immigration law.
ICE has a criminal investigations wing that’s less known than its deportation operation, so a
search for “ICE case” isn’t necessarily related to immigration. 
The Franklin County Sheriff's Office in Georgia appeared to make searches tied specifically to immigration
enforcement, with references to ICE's Fugitive Operations program. | Andres Kudacki/Getty Images
The Dallas Police Department will “assist any law enforcement agency when they are
conducting lawful activity in our jurisdiction,” said spokesperson Corbin Rubinson. He did
not answer questions about whether that extends to immigration enforcement.

--- page 9 ---
The CHP said it is investigating the April 22 search. It first said it was launching an internal
probe in July, when The Standard reported that the agency made the same search of the
Oakland Police Department’s Flock data.
Months later, it’s unclear why the investigation has not reached a conclusion. Flock’s internal
logs show the precise time each search is made, along with the name of the staffer who made
it.
“Again, if any CHP personnel requested license plate data on behalf of ICE for purposes of
immigration enforcement, that would constitute a blatant violation of both state law and the
department’s longstanding policy,” CHP spokesperson Jaime Coffee wrote. 
The Franklin County Sheriff, which made the majority of the searches marked as related to
ICE, did not respond to requests for comment.
"Cities own their own data, choose with whom and when to share that data with, and can
revoke access to that data at any time," a Flock spokesperson wrote.
The spokesperson noted that when Flock discovered some California agencies had opted into
its nationwide data sharing system in June, it removed them from the network "to make
compliance for California agencies easier." It is unclear whether the SFPD had opted into the
national lookup network.
City contracting documents show the SFPD agreed to pay Flock more than $3.9 million for
access to its technology between Feb. 20, 2024, and Feb. 19, 2027.
Privacy advocates and city leaders called for officials to enforce surveillance and sanctuary
city laws.
“The Police Commission and Mayor Lurie need to codify penalties for anyone sharing San
Francisco’s ALPR data with other agencies for immigration enforcement purposes,”
Supervisor Jackie Fielder said in a statement, using an acronym for “automated license-plate
recognition.”

--- page 10 ---
Filed under
Criminal Justice
Law Enforcement
News
Police
SFPD
Surveillance
Technology
More News
The SF Fed chief has two words she
won’t say about the AI boom
2
2 deaths on city streets: 1 pedestrian
killed in crash, 1 under investigation
Brian Hofer, executive director of the privacy group Secure Justice, urged California
Attorney General Rob Bonta and City Attorney David Chiu to hold police accountable.
“There’s always been this ‘trust us’ position from law enforcement,” Hofer said. “‘We’re
going to hold your data. It’s in our custody. We’re going to protect it.’ But when you see
these numbers of violations and them openly flaunting the law, it calls all of that into
question.”
A representative for Chiu declined to comment. Bonta's office said it has been "actively
engaged with local law enforcement" and pointed to a 2023 bulletin it issued reminding
police that they cannot share license-plate data with out-of-state agencies.
“The volume is stunning,” Hofer said. “It’s really the height of irony for a police department
to say, ‘We need to go catch the bad guys for breaking the laws.’ Meanwhile, they’ve
violated the law 1.6 million times.”

--- page 11 ---
Transitional kindergarten in SF: What
parents should know
1
A California environmental board voted
to cut $202M from SF’s eco-friendly
transit
By Tomo Chien
EXCLUSIVE
The dark conspiracy that OpenAI can’t shake
Skeptics believe a whistleblower was murdered. New
revelations call their claims into question.
Jan. 4, 2026 · 2:00pm
SF General’s AI security system has a history of
missing weapons
DPH is installing more scanners after last week’s fatal
stabbing, but staff aren’t convinced that these are the
safety measures they need.
Dec. 10, 2025 · 2:00pm

--- page 12 ---
Most read today
EXCLUSIVE
A cult-favorite SF coffee shop is opening its most ambitious cafe yet
Brock Purdy put on a spring show. Next, it’s Osa Odighizuwa’s turn
Sorry, Silicon Valley, it isn’t that easy to buy an election
1
San Francisco progressives got their clocks cleaned this election
10
How Giants manager Tony Vitello is handling all this losing: ‘I’m my
harshest critic’

--- page 13 ---
About Us
Staff
Standards & Ethics
Newsletters
Mobile App
Jobs
Contact Us
Tips
Advertising
Sign In
Paid Subscription
Subscription FAQs
© The San Francisco Standard. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
California Resident Rights
Privacy Center