ADVERTISEMENT Skip to main content Open search bar and full menu Sign in Latest News Politics Business Opinion Culture Food & Drink Sports Games Podcasts Politics Visit $ Politics Power Play The Lurie Experiment Trump vs. CA Best City, Broken Gov Close menu Close menu Sign out Search query Search Latest Obsessions News Politics Business Opinion Culture Food & Drink Sports Mobile App (opens in new tab) Newsletters Podcasts Games Social Links (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) Power Play Politics Who believed a survivor, and who didn’t? Scoring the Yekutiel fallout Plus: Xavier Becerra makes a big education pledge, Flock question flummoxes supervisor candidate and Chan’s reaction to Wiener’s AI chatbot. The fallout from the Manny Yekutiel drama continued after a new allegation of sexual assault emerged this week. | Source: Jason Henry for The Standard By Joe Fitzgerald Rodriguez , Omar Rashad , Dustin Gardiner , and Ezra Wallach Published Oct. 4, 2026 at 6:30pm Share Share Copy link to this article Email (opens in new tab) Twitter (opens in new tab) Bluesky (opens in new tab) Facebook (opens in new tab) LinkedIn (opens in new tab) Telegram (opens in new tab) WhatsApp (opens in new tab) Reddit (opens in new tab) Close share menu 1 There are 1 comments on this story Published Oct. 4, 2026 at 6:30pm What a week. After Manny Yekutiel ’s fall from grace, fortunes turned, reputations were tarred, and the public aired its appreciation for insiders who believed a sexual assault survivor when it wasn’t politically convenient. But first things first: Yekutiel’s alleged actions caused real pain. Survivors and what they endure should always be front and center. The Standard worked to air their concerns and is determined to pursue truth wherever it may lead. Power Play, however, is a venue to analyze the knife fight in San Francisco’s phone booth, so here we go with the winners and losers. ADVERTISEMENT The two San Francisco politicians to come out rosiest were District 8 candidate Gary McCoy and Supervisor Myrna Melgar. Throughout the campaign, McCoy seemed to understand the assignment: Stay the course, be humble, and support survivors, but don’t jump on the first allegation against Yekutiel. McCoy’s strategy was clearly to allow his opponent to implode. It worked, and McCoy is now the front-runner. As for Melgar, she was the first local politician to withdraw support for Yekutiel after the first allegation emerged. Attorney General Rob Bonta and Rep. Lateefah Simon did so too, but Melgar, as a member of the Board of Supervisors, is far more enmeshed in the web of relationships that form city politics, so she had more to lose. But many now say she looks like a political savant. The gratitude from survivors is palpable. She also took a risk in airing private statements allegedly made by Supervisor Rafael Mandelman , who later told The Standard that assault has a different “threshold” in the gay community. We’ll see whether it hurts Mandelman’s Assembly campaign and whether his allies seek retribution against Melgar, especially since she’s running to be the next board president. Behind the scenes, those who defended Yekutiel may face a reckoning. The San Francisco Democratic Party will hold an emergency meeting in about a week to vote on rescinding its endorsement of Yekutiel, as a matter of record. We wonder how much flak party chair Nancy Tung will take for allowing the party to endorse Yekutiel despite the first allegation. (She’s already under fire for her handling of the Flock resolution .) Supervisor Matt Dorsey, who long counted McCoy as a friend but cast the deciding vote for Yekutiel, shouldn’t expect any favors from McCoy now. Mayor Daniel Lurie was politically bruised, having endorsed Yekutiel last month. That leads us to wonder about the role his team of consultants played. While backing Yekutiel after the first set of allegations was the mayor’s call, where were these hired guns who earn an unprecedented sum for shelling out advice on difficult decisions? Max Szabo, one of Lurie’s trusted voices on political issues outside of City Hall’s dome, was among those in a position to stop the mayor , if that was possible. Lurie initially said he took Yekutiel at his word that it was not true. When the new allegation emerged this week, that statement drew fire from the public and the survivor community. This mistake will live on, alongside memories of the mayor’s 200-hour supervisor , Isabella “Beya” Alcaraz. Also, insiders tell us Yekutiel was the driving force behind seeking Lurie’s endorsement. His consultants at Barnes Mosher Whitehurst Lauter & Partners took a bet in letting him. Yekutiel knew his own actions and made his play knowing that. But Lurie’s endorsement helped undo Yekutiel as much as anything. If the mayor had withheld his endorsement — which the candidate didn’t need — Yekutiel would have been less injured publicly when the new allegation emerged. Instead, Lurie’s withdrawal gave permission for every other official to follow suit. More about Manny Yekutiel Analysis The Yekutiel scandal fits the SF establishment’s pattern of failing survivors Analysis The rise and fall of Manny Yekutiel Opinion Lashinsky: Manny Yekutiel’s exit is likely for the best. That doesn’t make it any less sad Without that blow, who knows? Maybe Manny would have survived the newest claim. — Joe Fitzgerald Rodriguez HIGH SCHOOL IS FOREVER: Remember the last day of school, when you said goodbye to your teacher for good? In Democrat Xavier Becerra ’s California, half of kids might be saying hello again in the fall. “Before we pass a child on, we’re making sure that they are at grade level,” the Democrat said at (opens in new tab) Wednesday night’s CNN debate (opens in new tab) against Republican Steve Hilton . “We have to provide the tutoring that they need,” he added. “We need to make sure that every student reads by third grade.” Just 49% of California students met (opens in new tab) or exceeded the state standard in English in 2025, and 37% did so in math. Fourteen states require third graders to pass a reading test (opens in new tab) in order to advance to fourth grade. California is not one of them. If elected, Becerra would have more power to change that than his predecessors. Starting Jan. 15, a governor-appointed education commissioner, confirmed by the state Senate, takes over management of the California Department of Education from the elected state superintendent. Becerra’s campaign did not respond to a request for comment. — Ezra Wallach FLIPPING ON FLOCK? District 10 supervisor candidate Theo Ellington ’s support for surveillance cameras with guardrails is well documented. That’s why his response in a lightning round of questions at a candidate forum last week was surprising. “Do you support continuing SFPD’s contract with Flock?” Ellington flipped his paddle to the side shaded red with an “X” on it, showing his opposition to the surveillance technology in front of more than 100 San Franciscans in attendance. Was Ellington flip-flopping? He clarified to Power Play that he supports the cameras; is supportive of Lurie’s latest approach, announced last week ; and guardrails should stop outside agencies from accessing the data. “I can’t say that on a yes or no question, right?” Ellington said. “It’s a nuanced question.” Moving forward, if outside agencies access San Francisco’s network of Flock cameras, is that reason enough to pull the plug? Ellington declined to say what he’d do. “I can’t work in what-ifs,” Ellington said. “It’s very hard to say, because what-ifs can be anything.” Ellington’s bid for supervisor is propped up by a PAC that got a generous $500,000 donation from billionaire Chris Larsen — a proponent of Flock cameras. In the last two years, Larsen has committed more than $12 million toward SFPD’s surveillance systems. — Omar Rashad APOLOGY NOT ACCEPTED?: One of the most poignant moments of Thursday night’s congressional debate came when state Sen. Scott Wiener apologized to Supervisor Connie Chan for his campaign’s deployment of an AI chatbot to mock her record. Wiener said, “It was a mistake, and that is not who I am. And so, supervisor, I want to directly apologize to you for that chatbot.” But his words didn’t appear to sway Chan — she and Wiener are locked in a bitter, often personal race to succeed Nancy Pelosi as San Francisco’s representative in Congress. Asked after the debate, hosted by KQED and the Chronicle, if she accepted Wiener’s apology, Chan declined to say. “I don’t think it’s about accepting an apology or not,” Chan told reporters. “It’s about how do we move forward, have policy that [protects] everyone from AI chatbots, from this type of bullying.” — Dustin Gardiner RUNNING UP THE SCORE: San Francisco Assemblymember Matt Haney had his most successful legislative session to date. Gov. Gavin Newsom inked all 14 of Haney’s bills that landed on his desk, including a measure that unlocks state funding for drug-free homeless housing and one that imposes a 25% income tax on companies that run ICE detention facilities. Haney had the most bills signed without vetoes of any assemblymember this year. (He tied with two fellow Democratic legislators from Southern California.) “I’m proud that we got 14 bills to the governor and 14 signed, but the number only matters because of the impact these new laws will have,” Haney told Power Play. “They will create housing, protect workers, expand access to care, hold corporations accountable, and deliver real results for San Franciscans.” — D.G. BONUS ROUND: One more “oopsie” from the Manny endorsement debacle: a few days before the news broke, GrowSF cofounder Sachin Agarwal proudly proclaimed on X that the group had printed roughly 250,000 voter guides, which he tweeted a photo of, wrapped in plastic on a truck. Well, those are scrap. GrowSF rescinded its Manny endorsement. Responding to concerns that GrowSF just blew a bunch of money on now-useless voter guides, Agarwal told Power Play, “ Our voter guide shipped before Thursday’s news broke. The guide remains a trusted resource on every other contest and issue facing voters in District 8 and across San Francisco.” Folks can just tear out the Yekutiel pages, we suppose. When an X user asked if it cost them “tens of thousands of dollars,” Agarwal answered, “Higher than that.” Agarwal did not respond to our question about just how much. — JFR This post has been updated with comment from GrowSF. Copy link to this article (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) More about the authors Joe Fitzgerald Rodriguez Politics Reporter · Contact Contact Joe Close joefitz@sfstandard.com Send a tip Omar Rashad Politics Reporter · Contact Contact Omar Close osr.77 Send a tip Dustin Gardiner Senior Politics Reporter · Contact Contact Dustin Close dgardiner@sfstandard.com @dustingardiner (opens in new tab) Send a tip Ezra Wallach News Reporter · Contact Contact Ezra Close ewallach@sfstandard.com Send a tip Filed under 2026 Election Aaron Peskin Brilliant City, Broken Government City Hall Connie Chan Democratic Party Election Elections GrowSF Manny Yekutiel Politics Politics Power Play Primary Election San Francisco Democratic County Central Committee SF Reality Check Advertise with us Learn more More Politics Asking a chatbot about your ballot? Read this first Five takeaways from congressional debate: Wiener, Chan clash over AI regulation Why only one District 10 candidate supports Lurie’s charter reforms 4 comments EXCLUSIVE Manny Yekutiel ‘crossed so many boundaries’: New allegation against SF candidate 13 comments By Joe Fitzgerald Rodriguez PODCAST Inside The Standard’s reporting on sexual assault allegations against Manny Yekutiel Joe Fitzgerald Rodriguez and Jonah Owen Lamb walk through the texts, photos, and sources behind their story, and accuser Ryan Clark explains why he came forward. 1 comments Oct. 1, 2026 · 5:58pm Power Play PR firm name-drops Lurie to get his luxury real estate agent brother in the press After Power Play raised questions about the use of the mayor’s name, the firm said Alexander Lurie was not aware of it and that the practice would stop. For subscribers Oct. 1, 2026 · 1:00am Most read today At the $4 million ‘midlife hacker house,’ already rich founders are chasing the AI boom 2 comments Rebirth on the waterfront: Tech campus pioneer brings Silicon Valley style to SF A family love story, a time-capsule Piedmont home, and 11 heirs bracing for what’s next Bad week for ‘Good Samaritan’: Man slashed on Muni bus gets arrested day later 3 comments The 49ers start 4-0: Special teams and defense key late outburst vs. Denver 1 comments Social Links (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) Footer Navigation About Us Staff Standards & Ethics Newsletters Mobile App (opens in new tab) Jobs (opens in new tab) Contact Us Tips Advertising Sign In Paid Subscription Subscription FAQs © The San Francisco Standard. All Rights Reserved. Legal Information Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Resident Rights Privacy Center