ADVERTISEMENT Skip to main content Open search bar and full menu Sign in Latest News Politics Business Opinion Culture Food & Drink Sports Games Podcasts News Visit $ News The Boom Loop Crisis in the Streets The School Wars Criminal Justice Transportation Investigations Close menu Close menu Sign out Search query Search Latest Obsessions News Politics Business Opinion Culture Food & Drink Sports Mobile App (opens in new tab) Newsletters Podcasts Games Social Links (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) News Even the billionaire funding Flock cameras in San Francisco has concerns Crypto founder Chris Larsen, who has put more than $12 million toward police surveillance technology, said the data gathered should be wiped more often. Tech billionaire Chris Larsen, cofounder and executive chairman of Ripple, shared some concerns about Flock cameras and some of the standards for its use by police. | Source: Jungho Kim By Omar Rashad Politics Reporter Published Sep. 17, 2026 at 2:38pm Share Share Copy link to this article Email (opens in new tab) Twitter (opens in new tab) Bluesky (opens in new tab) Facebook (opens in new tab) LinkedIn (opens in new tab) Telegram (opens in new tab) WhatsApp (opens in new tab) Reddit (opens in new tab) Close share menu There are $ 0 comments on this story Published Sep. 17, 2026 at 2:38pm Even Chris Larsen — who has put millions into San Francisco’s police surveillance technology — thinks it’s worth dialing back certain aspects of Flock. The tech billionaire’s hourlong appearance on journalist Kara Swisher’s podcast, taped live this month at a conference in San Francisco (opens in new tab) , revealed that Larsen’s own son isn’t a fan of automated license plate readers. But the crypto founder also shared privacy concerns about how the cameras are used and suggested some changes. ADVERTISEMENT “I think San Francisco could do — needs to do a better job,” Larsen told Swisher. “San Francisco keeps Flock information for a year. That’s way more than the average. The average is about 30 days.” Larsen’s suggestion would still leave San Francisco well outside Flock’s new recommended standard (opens in new tab) . The company last month cut its default retention period for new law enforcement customers from 30 days to seven, amid mounting privacy concerns. More about The Moguls The Waggle The Waggle: How to spend your AI millions in the few short years we have left Why do the people building AI keep warning us about the end of the world? New techie status symbol just dropped: The iPhone Duo Larsen last year made a $9 million commitment to the city’s police surveillance technology and committed $3 million more this summer (opens in new tab) . His donation last year helped establish the San Francisco Police Department’s new Real-Time Investigation Center , moving it away from City Hall to a former Ripple Labs office in the Financial District. Larsen said there will always be a trade-off between public safety and privacy. But even with evolving police technology, like police drones, he said some areas should be censored. “I would like to see those technologies blacking out people’s backyards, blacking out people’s decks, places that are private,” he told Swisher. Pressure has been mounting on Flock in recent months. A Washington Post investigation (opens in new tab) revealed misuse of the license plate readers, including police officers using them to track former romantic partners. The SFPD disclosed in June that its Flock network had been improperly searched nearly 300 times on behalf of federal and out-of-state agencies over roughly a year, despite state law and department policy restricting access. That was after a Standard investigation found that outside agencies had gone through San Francisco’s Flock cameras to make searches on behalf of federal immigration authorities. Additionally, a San Francisco police officer improperly used Flock cameras to track down his wife’s stolen vehicle. A handful of Bay Area cities have also canceled their contracts with Flock following reports of police misuse and access by federal immigration authorities. The debate over the cameras isn’t over in San Francisco. Two of Flock’s employees sit on the San Francisco Democratic Party’s board. Additionally, the company’s contract with the city is up for renewal in February 2027. Copy link to this article (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) More about the author Omar Rashad Politics Reporter · Contact Contact Omar Close osr.77 Send a tip Omar Rashad reports on San Francisco government and politics. Filed under Chris Larsen Moguls News The Moguls Advertise with us Learn more More News Accused Sea Cliff squatters skip court as judge issues restraining order 1 comments After 53 years, a legendary outlaw builder was evicted from Marin’s hippie utopia 4 comments EXCLUSIVE California to finally fund SF’s unkept promise to domestic violence survivors 3 comments SF cops are wearing Giants caps and hoodies on duty. The union wants them to shape up By Omar Rashad Power Play The office built to stop the next Nuru just got smaller Plus: A D10 candidate races ahead, Pelosi makes another stump speech and a bathhouse revival is underway. For subscribers 1 comments Sep. 17, 2026 · 1:00am Power Play D10 candidates could settle $7M empty cabin shelter standoff Plus: Sunshine Task Force candidates emerge, Lurie’s rent emergency takes heat, and podcaster slams SF. For subscribers 3 comments Sep. 14, 2026 · 1:00am Most read today Tim Flannery’s music helped Greg Papa deal with cancer. Now Papa faces another challenge 1 comments Opinion The e-bike revolution is here. San Francisco isn’t ready for it 2 comments Inside the SF Opera strike — a bigger fight over the company’s future 2 comments Stewart Brand sells his seaworthy Sausalito houseboat to tech CEO Kawakami: How Buster Posey is dealing with this lousy Giants season and approaching 2027 1 comments Social Links (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) Footer Navigation About Us Staff Standards & Ethics Newsletters Mobile App (opens in new tab) Jobs (opens in new tab) Contact Us Tips Advertising Sign In Paid Subscription Subscription FAQs © The San Francisco Standard. All Rights Reserved. Legal Information Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Resident Rights Privacy Center