--- page 1 ---
ADVERTISEMENT
POWER PLAY
Politics
Who believed a survivor, and who didn’t? Scoring the
Yekutiel fallout
Plus: Xavier Becerra makes a big education pledge, Flock question flummoxes
supervisor candidate and Chan’s reaction to Wiener’s AI chatbot.
Subscribe
Sign in
Politics
Power Play
The Lurie Experiment
Trump vs. CA
Best City, Broken Gov

--- page 2 ---
The fallout from the Manny Yekutiel drama continued after a new allegation of sexual assault
emerged this week. | Jason Henry for The Standard
By Joe Fitzgerald Rodriguez, Omar Rashad, Dustin Gardiner, and Ezra Wallach
Published Oct. 4, 2026 at 6:30pm
1
Share
What a week. After Manny Yekutiel’s fall from grace, fortunes turned, reputations were
tarred, and the public aired its appreciation for insiders who believed a sexual assault
survivor when it wasn’t politically convenient.
But first things first: Yekutiel’s alleged actions caused real pain. Survivors and what they
endure should always be front and center. The Standard worked to air their concerns and is
determined to pursue truth wherever it may lead.

--- page 3 ---
Power Play, however, is a venue to analyze the knife fight in San Francisco’s phone booth,
so here we go with the winners and losers. 
The two San Francisco politicians to come out rosiest were District 8 candidate Gary
McCoy and Supervisor Myrna Melgar. Throughout the campaign, McCoy seemed to
understand the assignment: Stay the course, be humble, and support survivors, but don’t
jump on the first allegation against Yekutiel. McCoy’s strategy was clearly to allow his
opponent to implode. 
It worked, and McCoy is now the front-runner.
Sign in or create an account
Get access to this article with a free account
Your email address
Continue with email
Continue with Google
Continue with Apple
By creating an account, you agree to The San Francisco Standard's Terms of Service and
Privacy Policy
email@example.com
or

--- page 4 ---
About Us
Staff
Standards & Ethics
Newsletters
Mobile App
Jobs
Contact Us
Tips
Advertising
Sign In
Paid Subscription
Subscription FAQs
© The San Francisco Standard. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
California Resident Rights
Privacy Center