--- page 1 ---
ADVERTISEMENT
POWER PLAY
Politics
Rob Bonta had a tough week. Is more bad news ahead
for California’s AG?
Plus: Danny Sauter introduces his own historic district, PG&E uses a bee to fight public
power, and a spicy Flock vote tonight.
Sign in
Politics
Power Play
The Lurie Experiment
Trump vs. CA
Best City, Broken Gov

--- page 2 ---
California Attorney General Rob Bonta is in the hot seat.
By Dustin Gardiner, Omar Rashad, and Gabriel Lorenzo Greschler
Published Sep. 23, 2026 at 6:30pm
Share

--- page 3 ---
Dear Power Play readers, as the election nears, we’re kicking into high gear. We will add a
once-a-week special newsletter, Election Insider, to our schedule, launching Oct. 6. Power
Play readers will be automatically signed up. Keep an eye out for details soon.
A week ago, Rob Bonta was a hero on the progressive left for fighting the merger of
Paramount Skydance and Warner Bros. Discovery — and thereby resisting media
consolidation at the hands of the conservative Ellison family. The California attorney general
had gone so far as to  call it “blackmail” when Paramount threatened to leave the state if the
deal were blocked.
But Bonta’s announcement of a settlement this week, allowing the deal to proceed, is
drawing more eyerolls than applause from some corners of the Democratic party and
organized labor. Combined with his connections to Oakland political and business figures
who are going on trial next month for corruption, this fall is looking like a rough stretch for
Bonta.
The Paramount deal has faced criticism from labor leaders and Democrats who hoped Bonta,
a progressive from the Bay Area, would extract more concessions from CEO David Ellison,
son of billionaire Oracle founder Larry Ellison, a close ally of President Donald Trump.
Bonta said Monday that the settlement would resolve antitrust concerns. His endorsement
was hardly ringing, however: “Let me be clear: This settlement is not a vote of support for
this merger,” Bonta said. “But we believe this settlement … protects competition and
consumer choice and puts workers’ needs, concerns, and futures first.”
Fellow progressives appeared to share the lack of enthusiasm. Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth
Warren called the settlement a “disastrous outcome” that will eliminate jobs. The Block the
Merger coalition, an industry group that includes liberal actors like Mark Ruffalo, Jane
Fonda, and Bryan Cranston, said it was a bad outcome for the “future of film,
entertainment, independent journalism, and a strong democracy.”
More establishment Democrats, including Gov. Gavin Newsom, gubernatorial candidate
Xavier Becerra, and Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass, have praised the settlement as a

--- page 4 ---
move that could prevent the exodus of more film productions from Hollywood and
California. 
But the mixed reviews come as Bonta’s name is likely to be evoked in a series of messy
headlines out of the Oakland trial.
Bonta won’t be in the courtroom as former Oakland Mayor Sheng Thao and members of the
Duong family, who own a Bay Area trash-hauling company, stand trial on corruption
charges. (Thao and the Duongs deny any wrongdoing.) But Bonta has close connections to
the defendants, and his campaign previously said he had been approached by federal
investigators as a “possible victim” in the case.
Moreover, Bonta has had a difficult time explaining why he spent $500,000 in campaign
funds on legal services amid the bribery investigation. Additionally, he gave away $155,100
in contributions that he received from the Duongs and their business partners. 
Bonta has downplayed his ties to Andy Duong, son of the owner of California Waste
Solutions, despite social media posts that show them in the back of a limousine with his
wife, Assemblymember Mia Bonta, and sitting courtside together at a Warriors game.
“Bonta did what any public official should do when federal investigators approached him as
a possible victim: He stepped up to help,” said Jonathan Underland, a spokesperson for
Bonta’s reelection campaign. “That was in 2024. Since then he’s been focused on the fight to
protect working families.”
Still, Bonta likely faces a difficult stretch ahead, despite otherwise having a good year
leading California’s legal resistance to Trump and celebrating a historic settlement with Meta
over child-safety concerns. — Dustin Gardiner
More about Power Play
POWER PLAY
PG&E vs. SF: Why the next few weeks matter for a public power
takeover

--- page 5 ---
POWER PLAY
The office built to stop the next Nuru just got smaller
POWER PLAY
D10 candidates could settle $7M empty cabin shelter standoff
Got tips? Send them to us at powerplay@sfstandard.com.
NORTH BEACH DÉJÀ VU: Supervisor Danny Sauter is introducing a proposal to create
a historic district in North Beach. But wait, that’s been done before, right?
Sure, but a proposal in front of the State Historical Resources Commission hasn’t advanced
all year. It was criticized for blocking new housing in North Beach (supporters say it does
not), and Mayor Daniel Lurie lobbied to delay it after an outcry from housing advocates.
The dormant proposal would’ve put more than 600 buildings under a historic designation.
Under Sauter’s proposal, which he introduced this week, the designation would apply to only
200 buildings. 
“Our local district will protect historic buildings and honor their history without including
garages or empty lots, like the state proposal does,” Sauter said at Tuesday’s Board of
Supervisors meeting.
A Lurie spokesperson said historic designations shouldn’t be used to block housing
construction, adding that Sauter’s plan “will protect what makes North Beach special while
allowing us to build the homes San Franciscans need.”
Former Supervisor Aaron Peskin, whose wife, Nancy Shanahan, was a leader of the initial
historic district effort, told Power Play it’s “absolute hogwash” to say the proposal would’ve
prevented or blocked new housing in North Beach. “It is not true,” Peskin said. — Omar
Rashad
FLOCK O’CLOCK (AGAIN): The San Francisco Democratic Party is slated to take sides
on Flock at its meeting Wednesday night. But this time, there’s a competing resolution to

--- page 6 ---
Gordon Mar’s proposal.
Mar said his resolution was stalled by an internal Democratic Party committee chaired by a
Flock employee. His proposal calls on the San Francisco Police Department to suspend its
use of Flock cameras if it cannot demonstrate it can cut off access to federal and out-of-state
law enforcement agencies. 
A competing resolution, authored by Supervisor Matt Dorsey and DCCC Chair Nancy
Tung, urges the continued use of Flock cameras. 
Mar told Power Play he was surprised to see the competing resolution.
“If a vendor’s national platform architecture enables third-party or federal back doors,
updating local policy guidelines isn’t enough,” Mar said. “We need contractual teeth,
independent forensic audits, and a willingness to pause contracts when state sanctuary laws
are breached.”
Keep an eye out for our Flock coverage to follow. — O.R.
UN-BEE-LIEVABLE: A bee — specifically, Crotch’s bumblebee, or Bombus crotchii —
was cited Tuesday by Pacific Gas & Electric in arguments against the city taking over its
assets. The utility argued that the city didn’t do its due diligence, declaring the bees absent
from municipal power construction sites without surveying for them. City officials disputed
this.
It garnered quite a few chuckles at the Board of Supervisors after Bilal Mahmood
highlighted the insect’s inclusion in PG&E’s appeal to an environmental impact review. “I
thought it was ridiculous,” Mahmood told Power Play. “[PG&E’s] intention is to delay,
delay, delay.”
Supervisors unanimously rejected the appeal, with Dorsey and Myrna Melgar sharing some
strong feelings. “Of all the gears PG&E could choose to gum up ... to come into this board
chamber and to waste our time with its expensive and dilatory stunts, demonstrates a
contempt for this body and this city that is, in my view, breathtaking. But neither is it
surprising,” Dorsey said. Melgar also had choice words: “I have sat through I don’t even

--- page 7 ---
know how many [environmental impact review hearings] and EIR appeals in the five years I
spent at the Planning Commission, and now six years on this board. … I think that this
appeal argument is the most ridiculous I’ve seen, actually.” — Gabriel Greschler
Rep. Nancy Pelosi and Sen. Adam Schiff appear at a Capitol Hill event celebrating the launch of Pelosi’s institute at UC
Berkeley. | Courtesy Nancy Pelosi Institute for Representative Democracy
PROFESSOR PELOSI: Rep. Nancy Pelosi’s Institute for Representative Democracy at
UC Berkeley held its first gathering late last week on Capitol Hill, offering a glimpse into
her next act as she prepares to leave office later this year.
The two-day event focused on Pelosi’s mission to defend democracy and the Constitution
(which she often says are under assault by Trump). Speakers included House Minority
Leader Hakeem Jeffries, presidential biographer Jon Meacham, UC Berkeley Chancellor
Rich Lyons, former Attorney General Eric Holder, historian Ron Chernow, San Diego
Rep. Sara Jacobs, Maryland Rep. Jamie Raskin, and Florida Rep. Maxwell Frost.

--- page 8 ---
More about the authors
Omar Rashad
Politics Reporter ·
Omar Rashad reports on San Francisco government and politics.
The theme and Pelosi’s list of high-profile guests is a preview of how she aims to use the
institute to remain a force in U.S. politics. As part of the event, Pelosi also led 90 Berkeley
students, faculty, and staff on a tour of the Capitol. — D.G.
ICE ARREST FALLOUT: Lurie on Wednesday sent a letter to a federal judge urging him
to release Ho-Yin Mo, a Democratic legislative staffer who was detained by federal
immigration authorities last week at the Las Vegas airport. Lurie joined a chorus of Bay Area
elected officials calling for Mo’s release.  
“In his role, he serves the San Francisco community, and he does so with great care and
commitment,” Lurie wrote. “He is a positive addition to our city. … He is a contributing
member of society, and I do not believe he poses as a danger or threat to anyone.”
Mo, a field representative for Assemblymember Catherine Stefani, remained in Department
of Homeland Security custody as of Wednesday afternoon, facing possible deportation to
Hong Kong. A DHS spokesperson said Mo entered the U.S. in 2020 "on a temporary basis
but illegally overstayed his welcome,” but Stefani has insisted he is a legal employee of her
office.
Other Democratic politicians calling for Mo’s release include Rep. Kevin Mullin and all 11
members of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors.
But Republicans have seized on the case, and the Trump administration on Wednesday
implied that Stefani had inappropriately hired Mo. “Radical Democrats continue to prioritize
illegal aliens over American citizens — even employing illegal aliens to work in their
political offices,” said White House spokesperson Lauren Bis. — D.G.
Contact

--- page 9 ---
Gabriel Lorenzo Greschler
Politics Reporter ·
Filed under
Brilliant City, Broken Government
Nancy Pelosi
North Beach
PG&E
Politics
Power Play
Rob Bonta
SF Reality Check
Advertise with us
Learn more
More Politics
More people are falling into SF
homelessness than exiting. Can a
Medicaid veteran fix it?
They build frontier AI. Now they’re
donating millions to rein it in
Contact

--- page 10 ---
Sexual assault scandal could cost
organizer control of Chinese New Year
Parade
Trump’s Truth Social charges $100K a
month to see his posts early. SF says
that’s illegal
By Dustin Gardiner
SF assemblymember’s aide detained by ICE,
faces deportation to Hong Kong
Catherine Stefani called for the release of Ho-Yin Mo,
who was arrested last week during an enforcement
operation at the Las Vegas airport.
POWER PLAY
PG&E vs. SF: Why the next few weeks matter for
a public power takeover
Plus: Cesar Chavez Street renaming, OpenGov software
reform, and L.A.’s vote on the wealth tax.
Most read today
1
5 · Sep. 22, 2026 · 9:11pm
Sep. 21, 2026 · 1:00am

--- page 11 ---
The effective altruists who won’t return FTX money just hired Sam
Bankman-Fried’s ex
Nobody believed in it. Now this San Francisco streamer is bigger
than HBO Max
How San Francisco lost the Lucas Museum
Stanford replaced a Latino man with an AI-generated Black woman
in a photo
SF’s mountain lions found a new home: a research project in the
Santa Cruz Mountains
1
8
2
2

--- page 12 ---
About Us
Staff
Standards & Ethics
Newsletters
Mobile App
Jobs
Contact Us
Tips
Advertising
Sign In
Paid Subscription
Subscription FAQs
© The San Francisco Standard. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
California Resident Rights
Privacy Center