--- page 1 ---
ADVERTISEMENT
Politics
SF Dem Party chair who blocked key Flock vote got
donation from surveillance backer
Nancy Tung spoke at a conference hosted by the camera company in the weeks before
the vote.
Subscribe
Sign in
Politics
Power Play
The Lurie Experiment
Trump vs. CA
Best City, Broken Gov

--- page 2 ---
San Francisco Democratic Party Chair Nancy Tung objects to disruptions to public comment during
the board’s Aug. 26 meeting. | Omar Rashad/The Standard
By Joe Fitzgerald Rodriguez
Politics Reporter
Published Sep. 28, 2026 at 12:42pm
2
The same month she blocked a resolution calling for restrictions on Flock Safety, the
chairperson of the San Francisco Democratic Party accepted a $10,000 donation from a tech
mogul bankrolling the police department’s surveillance deployment and spoke at a
conference hosted by the firm.
Newly revealed public records show Nancy Tung, chair of the local party since 2024, used
her officeholder account in early August to purchase airfare to a Flock conference in Atlanta.
Share

--- page 3 ---
Flock invited her to speak on San Francisco’s successful efforts against crime, Tung told The
Standard. 
Party board member Gordon Mar authored the resolution, which would have put Democrats
on record calling for more restrictions on the use of Flock data. When Tung announced she
blocked his resolution at the Democrats’ regular Aug. 26 meeting, he cried foul, pointing out
that two Democratic Party board members who were Flock employees had failed to recuse
themselves or even acknowledge their connections. 
Tung works in the district attorney’s office and was not one of the Flock employees. She said
at the meeting that she and another board member, Lily Ho, who was public affairs manager
for the western U.S. for Flock as recently as last month, did not allow a vote on his
resolution because it contained factual errors. 
“Nothing goes onto the agenda without the consent of the chair, and that is me. So, I did not
approve it,” Tung told Mar. A month after the spat, she put his resolution up for a vote, and it
lost.
Sign in or create an account
Get access to this article with a free account
Your email address
Continue with email
Continue with Google
Continue with Apple
email@example.com
or

--- page 4 ---
About Us
Staff
Standards & Ethics
Newsletters
Mobile App
Jobs
Contact Us
Tips
Advertising
Sign In
Paid Subscription
Subscription FAQs
© The San Francisco Standard. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
California Resident Rights
Privacy Center
By creating an account, you agree to The San Francisco Standard's Terms of Service and
Privacy Policy