--- page 1 ---
ADVERTISEMENT
News
Even the billionaire funding Flock cameras in San
Francisco has concerns
Crypto founder Chris Larsen, who has put more than $12 million toward police
surveillance technology, said the data gathered should be wiped more often.
Subscribe
Sign in
News
The Boom Loop
Crisis in the Streets
The School Wars
Criminal Justice
Transportation
Inve

--- page 2 ---
Tech billionaire Chris Larsen, cofounder and executive chairman of Ripple, shared some concerns
about Flock cameras and some of the standards for its use by police. | Jungho Kim
By Omar Rashad
Politics Reporter
Published Sep. 17, 2026 at 2:38pm
Even Chris Larsen — who has put millions into San Francisco’s police surveillance
technology — thinks it’s worth dialing back certain aspects of Flock.
The tech billionaire’s hourlong appearance on journalist Kara Swisher’s podcast, taped live
this month at a conference in San Francisco, revealed that Larsen’s own son isn’t a fan of
automated license plate readers. 
Share
We and our vendors use tracking technologies to recognize visitors and
remember their preferences, for analytics, and for marketing, among other things.
By clicking ‘Confirm,’ you consent to our and our vendors’ processing of your
data using the above methods and as permitted by our Privacy Policy.
Confirm
Customize Settings
Reject Non-Essential Cookies

--- page 3 ---
But the crypto founder also shared privacy concerns about how the cameras are used and
suggested some changes. 
“I think San Francisco could do — needs to do a better job,” Larsen told Swisher. “San
Francisco keeps Flock information for a year. That’s way more than the average. The
average is about 30 days.”
Larsen’s suggestion would still leave San Francisco well outside Flock’s new recommended
standard. The company last month cut its default retention period for new law enforcement
customers from 30 days to seven, amid mounting privacy concerns.
Sign in or create an account
Get access to this article with a free account
Your email address
Continue with email
Continue with Google
Continue with Apple
By creating an account, you agree to The San Francisco Standard's Terms of Service and
Privacy Policy
email@example.com
or
We and our vendors use tracking technologies to recognize visitors and
remember their preferences, for analytics, and for marketing, among other things.
By clicking ‘Confirm,’ you consent to our and our vendors’ processing of your
data using the above methods and as permitted by our Privacy Policy.

--- page 4 ---
About Us
Staff
Standards & Ethics
Newsletters
Mobile App
Jobs
Contact Us
Tips
Advertising
Sign In
Paid Subscription
Subscription FAQs
© The San Francisco Standard. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
California Resident Rights
Privacy Center
We and our vendors use tracking technologies to recognize visitors and
remember their preferences, for analytics, and for marketing, among other things.
By clicking ‘Confirm,’ you consent to our and our vendors’ processing of your
data using the above methods and as permitted by our Privacy Policy.