ADVERTISEMENT Skip to main content Open search bar and full menu Sign in Latest News Politics Business Opinion Culture Food & Drink Sports Games Podcasts Politics Visit $ Politics Power Play The Lurie Experiment Trump vs. CA Best City, Broken Gov Close menu Close menu Sign out Search query Search Latest Obsessions News Politics Business Opinion Culture Food & Drink Sports Mobile App (opens in new tab) Newsletters Podcasts Games Social Links (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) Politics Flock is under fire. SF’s moderate Democrats are doubling down on the cameras The technology company has lost contracts in many blue cities, but local leaders are largely defending the SFPD’s use of surveillance devices. Supervisor Matt Dorsey said the abuses of Flock cameras are not outweighed by the technology’s benefits for the San Francisco Police Department. | Source: Morgan Ellis/The Standard By Dustin Gardiner and Omar Rashad Published Sep. 24, 2026 at 3:11pm Share Share Copy link to this article Email (opens in new tab) Twitter (opens in new tab) Bluesky (opens in new tab) Facebook (opens in new tab) LinkedIn (opens in new tab) Telegram (opens in new tab) WhatsApp (opens in new tab) Reddit (opens in new tab) Close share menu 4 There are $ 4 comments on this story Published Sep. 24, 2026 at 3:11pm Flock Safety is in the throes of a national public-relations crisis. But San Francisco’s moderate Democratic political establishment is doubling down on its support for surveillance cameras. Flock, the vendor for the city’s network of nearly 500 cameras and other policing devices, has faced increasing public backlash over concerns about privacy, mass surveillance, and unauthorized federal access, including fears that the data could aid the Trump administration’s immigration crackdown. A September 2025 Standard investigation found that San Francisco’s Flock license-plate database was illegally accessed 1.6 million times by out-of-state agencies. Additionally, the San Francisco Police Department came out with its own internal audit , confirming that outside agencies had unauthorized access to local cameras. ADVERTISEMENT Those anxieties and protests from progressive activists have led nearly 150 cities and local governments (opens in new tab) across the country to deactivate cameras or cancel their contracts with Flock. Cities and counties across the Bay Area — including Richmond, Half Moon Bay, Mountain View and Redwood City — have debated whether to pause or cancel contracts. The turbulence surrounding the company has been so rough that its leaders are considering a sale, Semafor reported Wednesday. (opens in new tab) A DeFlock advoacy sticker warns drivers about an automated license-plate reader. | Source: (Photo by Smith Collection/Gado/Getty Images) In San Francisco, however, the effort to scale back police surveillance hasn’t gained traction. Moderates, who hold a majority on the Board of Supervisors, are largely defending the SFPD’s use of automated license-plate readers and speed cameras, noting that crime rates have plummeted in recent years after a pandemic-era surge in theft and fentanyl addiction frustrated voters. District Attorney Brooke Jenkins argues that the city’s approach reflects the mood of voters who support the program because they don’t want crime to rebound. Jenkins noted that, unlike in other cities debating Flock contracts, San Francisco voters approved a 2024 ballot measure (opens in new tab) that expanded the SFPD’s authority to use drones and cameras. “It’s ever present in people’s minds that it wasn’t that long ago that they had lost confidence in us, and the city was in a much different place,” Jenkins said. “San Francisco is doing well; we are coming back.” A recent poll commissioned by Grow SF, an influential moderate advocacy group, found that likely voters are broadly supportive of the SFPD using surveillance cameras. The survey found (opens in new tab) that 64% are in favor of police using cameras to target crime hubs like open-air drug markets, while 72% support police using drones and cameras to pursue suspects after a 911 call. Those questions, however, didn’t gauge voters’ feelings about Flock as a company. More about Brilliant City, Broken Government Power Play Rob Bonta had a tough week. Is more bad news ahead for California’s AG? Hundreds of people are desperate to get sober. They’re being turned away at the door How San Francisco lost the Lucas Museum At City Hall, supervisors and Mayor Daniel Lurie are weighing whether the city needs additional safety guardrails to limit how data from its Flock system is stored and used. Rumblings about policy changes have cropped up in recent days. Lurie’s office declined to comment on any proposals, though the mayor has been a vocal defender of the SFPD using drones and surveillance cameras. But even as moderate Democrats defend surveillance efforts, privacy activists are forcing them to debate the issue. That tension spilled out Wednesday night, when the San Francisco Democratic Party County Central Committee debated a pair of competing resolutions on the issue. Protesters at the meeting criticized the local Democratic Party’s ties to Flock: Two of its voting members — Trevor Chandler and Lily Ho — work on the company’s public affairs team. As recently as last week, Ho defended Flock cameras during a tense community town hall in Santa Rosa (opens in new tab) . “You cannot be a paid advocate for a surveillance product and be a neutral arbiter of its oversight,” a San Francisco resident said at the meeting Wednesday. Anti-Flock protesters, some of whom are associated with the DeFlock San Francisco group, raise banners during a meeting of the county Democratic Party on Wednesday. | Source: Omar Rashad/The Standard The county party, which is controlled by moderate Democrats, approved two resolutions supporting the SFPD’s use of license-plate readers (opens in new tab) and speed cameras. It defeated a resolution from former Supervisor Gordon Mar that called for suspending the use of Flock cameras (opens in new tab) until the SFPD can prove it’s able to cut off camera access to out-of-state and federal law enforcement agencies. During the meeting, privacy activists, including the teenagers behind DeFlock SF , protested for about two minutes, hoisting signs equating the local Democratic Party to “big tech puppets.” Listen to The Standard Podcasts PST with Emily Dreyfuss 6 days ago Teen activists vs. Flock cameras: Inside SF’s surveillance fight Listen Select Your Platform Close Apple Podcasts (opens in new tab) Spotify (opens in new tab) YouTube (opens in new tab) Mar, whose Flock resolution previously stalled in August , said he was surprised to see that two of his Democratic Party colleagues — Supervisor Matt Dorsey and DCCC Chair Nancy Tung — proposed counter-resolutions. Moderates on the DCCC used a similar maneuver in August, when they put a competing resolution on the agenda during a debate over Proposition 40, also known as the Billionaires Tax. The local party ended up bucking the statewide Democratic Party by opposing the proposed tax on California’s ultra-wealthy and instead endorsed a competing resolution advocating for a national wealth tax. “In both instances,” Mar told The Standard, “a corporate-funded majority is acting as a shield for tech interests and wealthy campaign backers over core democratic values like healthcare equity, civil liberties, and sanctuary protections.” Former Supervisor Gordon Mar at Wednesday’s meeting. | Source: Omar Rashad/The Standard Flock critics also seized on the SFPD’s audit, released in June, which revealed that federal and out-of-state agencies had “improperly” accessed data from cameras hundreds of times in the previous year. Abuses have also come from within the department: In February, officials revealed that an SFPD officer used the cameras to search for his wife’s stolen car, in violation of department rules. The Democratic Party spent most of its meeting Wednesday debating Flock cameras. Tung, a county prosecutor, acknowledged instances of misuse by law enforcement but credited the SFPD for self-reporting the unauthorized access to the cameras . Dorsey said the SFPD’s response to such episodes shows that the department has safeguards to intervene when data from Flock’s cameras is misused. Dorsey, who has sparred with anti-Flock activists (opens in new tab) on social media in recent days, said his intent is to defend police using the technology, not necessarily to defend Flock as a company. He noted that car break-ins have continued to drop, by 44% last year, since the city deployed hundreds of cameras in 2024. “I have seen the far-left fringe do a lot of damage to this city,” said Dorsey, who previously worked as a spokesperson for the SFPD. “The knee-jerk reaction is always to deprive law enforcement agencies of tools that work.” Copy link to this article (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) More about the author Omar Rashad Politics Reporter · Contact Contact Omar Close osr.77 Send a tip Omar Rashad reports on San Francisco government and politics. Filed under Brilliant City, Broken Government Brooke Jenkins Flock Matt Dorsey Politics Public Safety SF Reality Check Advertise with us Learn more More Politics Lurie is skeptical of a PG&E takeover. He may soon have to take a stand Xavier Becerra shows off his BDE (Big Dad Energy) in interview with The Standard EXCLUSIVE ‘AIPAC on steroids’: The people warning about AI are quietly becoming a political force 1 comments More people are falling into SF homelessness than exiting. Can a Medicaid veteran fix it? By Dustin Gardiner Power Play Rob Bonta had a tough week. Is more bad news ahead for California’s AG? Plus: Danny Sauter introduces his own historic district, PG&E uses a bee to fight public power, and a spicy Flock vote tonight. 1 comments Sep. 24, 2026 · 1:30am Power Play PG&E vs. SF: Why the next few weeks matter for a public power takeover Plus: Cesar Chavez Street renaming, OpenGov software reform, and L.A.’s vote on the wealth tax. Sep. 21, 2026 · 1:00am Most read today Why San Francisco developers keep building risky offices instead of stable housing 7 comments Stanford replaced a Latino man with an AI-generated Black woman in a photo 2 comments EXCLUSIVE The portable snack Australians eat everywhere is coming to Polk Street The Standard acquires Marin Lately and launches San Francisco Currently 2 comments A Fisherman’s Wharf building sold by troubled Academy of Art is already facing foreclosure Social Links (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) Footer Navigation About Us Staff Standards & Ethics Newsletters Mobile App (opens in new tab) Jobs (opens in new tab) Contact Us Tips Advertising Sign In Paid Subscription Subscription FAQs © The San Francisco Standard. All Rights Reserved. Legal Information Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Resident Rights Privacy Center