ADVERTISEMENT Skip to main content Open search bar and full menu Sign in Latest News Politics Business Opinion Culture Food & Drink Sports Games Podcasts Politics Visit $ Politics Power Play The Lurie Experiment Trump vs. CA Best City, Broken Gov Close menu Close menu Sign out Search query Search Latest Obsessions News Politics Business Opinion Culture Food & Drink Sports Mobile App (opens in new tab) Newsletters Podcasts Games Social Links (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) Politics SF Dem Party chair who blocked key Flock vote got donation from surveillance backer Nancy Tung spoke at a conference hosted by the camera company in the weeks before the vote. San Francisco Democratic Party Chair Nancy Tung objects to disruptions to public comment during the board’s Aug. 26 meeting. | Source: Omar Rashad/The Standard By Joe Fitzgerald Rodriguez Politics Reporter Published Sep. 28, 2026 at 12:42pm Share Share Copy link to this article Email (opens in new tab) Twitter (opens in new tab) Bluesky (opens in new tab) Facebook (opens in new tab) LinkedIn (opens in new tab) Telegram (opens in new tab) WhatsApp (opens in new tab) Reddit (opens in new tab) Close share menu 2 There are $ 2 comments on this story Published Sep. 28, 2026 at 12:42pm The same month she blocked a resolution calling for restrictions on Flock Safety, the chairperson of the San Francisco Democratic Party accepted a $10,000 donation from a tech mogul bankrolling the police department’s surveillance deployment and spoke at a conference hosted by the firm. Newly revealed public records show Nancy Tung, chair of the local party since 2024, used her officeholder account in early August to purchase airfare to a Flock conference in Atlanta. Flock invited her to speak on San Francisco’s successful efforts against crime, Tung told The Standard. Party board member Gordon Mar authored the resolution, which would have put Democrats on record calling for more restrictions on the use of Flock data. When Tung announced she blocked his resolution at the Democrats’ regular Aug. 26 meeting, he cried foul, pointing out that two Democratic Party board members who were Flock employees had failed to recuse themselves or even acknowledge their connections. ADVERTISEMENT Tung works in the district attorney’s office and was not one of the Flock employees. She said at the meeting that she and another board member, Lily Ho, who was public affairs manager for the western U.S. for Flock as recently as last month, did not allow a vote on his resolution because it contained factual errors. “Nothing goes onto the agenda without the consent of the chair, and that is me. So, I did not approve it,” Tung told Mar. A month after the spat, she put his resolution up for a vote, and it lost. Tung told The Standard that the $10,000 from billionaire Chris Larsen, and Flock’s outreach, did not influence her vote. “It has no bearing whatsoever,’ she said. “I didn’t know Gordon Mar was going to have a resolution at the time I accepted the money from Chris.” A spokesperson for Larsen did not return calls for comment. Mar told The Standard he was not aware Tung had Flock ties of her own. “I’m absolutely outraged,” Mar said. “Knowing that Chris Larsen dropped her a five-figure donation that paid for her trip to a Flock conference makes her actions even more troubling.” Gordon Mar at a meeting of the Democratic Party of San Francisco on Sept. 23, where the use of Flock cameras was discussed. | Source: Omar Rashad/The Standard Notably, the Democratic Party board, also known as the Democratic County Central Committee, is a political body, not a governmental one. It isn’t funded by taxpayer dollars but by donations, and its main purpose is to turn out voters for Democrats, put the local party on record for particular stances or goals, and endorse in elections. Its conflict-of-interest provision applies primarily to voting on contracts, rather than resolutions. At the party’s September meeting, Mar proposed tightening conflict-of-interest rules. Trevor Chandler, the party member who is a Flock employee, has pointed out that the party often votes to endorse people who the Democrats have ties to — former or current bosses, politicians with allegiances — or entities like unions who share ties with voting party members. More about Brilliant City, Broken Government SF’s housing solution may be hiding in plain sight: Land it already owns San Francisco is on the path to universal childcare. It’s still leaving some behind Rent Check Burned out: Fires are raging in rent-controlled apartments, leaving tenants gasping Tung received the donation from Larsen on Aug. 6 into her Democratic Party officeholder account, according to city records. The money is meant to go toward the general business of serving on the Democratic Party board, which can include paying for food for phone banking volunteers or travel. On Aug. 19, she took a $347 flight to Atlanta to attend the Flock Forward (opens in new tab) conference for law enforcement professionals, according to her city ethics filings (opens in new tab) . That’s in line with what officeholders can spend on. Tung told The Standard that Flock Safety asked her to speak at the conference in her capacity as party chair, and travel for party business is a common use of officeholder accounts. “They were talking about San Francisco’s comeback, and how people feel about public safety is an important part of that,” Tung said. “I thought it was an important story to tell. I went with a combination of my own time, which is not free because it’s during the middle of the week, which does cost me.” Ethics experts have warned that such accounts can become slush funds — politicians are barred from accepting donations more than $500 when running most local campaigns, but a member of the Democratic Party can accept donations of any size to officeholder accounts. A state law bars local jurisdictions from regulating officeholder accounts, and the rules governing their use are quite broad. Flock Safety is under a barrage of criticism nationally, as law enforcement officials have used the surveillance technology to stalk romantic partners (opens in new tab) and concerns grow about using local surveillance data (opens in new tab) to aid federal immigration enforcement. A Standard investigation last year revealed that San Francisco’s Flock license-plate database was illegally accessed 1.6 million times by out-of-state agencies. In San Francisco, moderate Democrats still support license-plate readers , and recent polling shows that overall support remains strong, though that polling did not name Flock specifically. Larsen has donated roughly $12 million in gifts to the San Francisco Police Department’s surveillance efforts, helping beef up its Real-Time Investigation Center. At least one major candidate has called on San Francisco to tell the surveillance company to Flock off: Gary McCoy, an aide to Rep. Nancy Pelosi, who is running for supervisor in District 8 to represent the Castro and Noe Valley. McCoy told The Standard , “Civil liberties are at an all-time high risk with the amount of information that they’re tracking and collecting, for the amount of time they’re keeping it, and for the folks that continue to access that information.” The Flock conference Tung attended reportedly barred journalists (opens in new tab) , apparently out of concern for attendees’ privacy. The following month, Tung co-authored a party resolution lauding San Francisco’s use of automated license plate reader technology, which the party approved. Mar asserted that members of the Democratic Party board had a personal interest in blocking the Flock resolution, including Ho and Chandler. Tung lauded her benefactor, saying Chris Larsen “is one of the most prominent civic leaders in our city” because of his donations to myriad causes, from public safety to efforts to power-wash city streets. He has spent unprecedented sums in local elections, dropping $500,000 to back District 10 supervisor candidate Theo Ellington this month. Some opposition to the license-plate readers has percolated in the city: At the September meeting where members approved Tung’s resolution, a handful of teen activists held signs accusing the party of being Flock’s “puppets.” Besides co-authoring the license-plate reader resolution, Tung and Dorsey share something else in common: Larsen recently donated $25,000 to Dorsey’s Democratic Party officeholder account. As The Standard previously revealed , Dorsey spent his officeholder funds on 669 Uber and bike-share transactions totaling $5,374; 65 charges to restaurants totaling $3,568; and six Apple purchases topping $3,373. After The Standard raised the expenditures with Dorsey, the supervisor said $327.57 in charges had been made in error and were actually personal expenses. Tung’s purchases were far more frugal, records show. Between July 1 and Sept. 19, she spent on just three Lyft rides. And on her trip to Atlanta for the conference, she flew on Frontier Airlines — not exactly the ritziest option — taking what she called an economy seat on a red-eye flight. Tung said she uses the account generally to pay for food at Democratic Party events and to support candidates. She doesn’t face reelection for two years. “In terms of the money in the officeholder account, it helps me do the work of the chair that doesn’t get reimbursed anywhere else,” Tung said. “I might take a Lyft here and there, but I’m not riding a lot of e-bikes.” Copy link to this article (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) More about the author Joe Fitzgerald Rodriguez Politics Reporter · Contact Contact Joe Close joefitz@sfstandard.com Send a tip Filed under Brilliant City, Broken Government Politics Politics SF Reality Check Advertise with us Learn more More Politics SF’s housing solution may be hiding in plain sight: Land it already owns After $3.2 million in property damage, SF eyes ban on lighters used to smoke fentanyl 1 comments Lurie tightens police surveillance rules in SF — but avoids targeting Flock 1 comments Meet the Bay Area progressive group targeting tech-backed Democrats 2 comments By Joe Fitzgerald Rodriguez Sexual assault scandal could cost organizer control of Chinese New Year Parade The San Francisco Chinese Chamber of Commerce has put on the event for 73 years, but allegations made in a recent lawsuit may change that. Sep. 23, 2026 · 1:00pm Power Play PG&E vs. SF: Why the next few weeks matter for a public power takeover Plus: Cesar Chavez Street renaming, OpenGov software reform, and L.A.’s vote on the wealth tax. Sep. 21, 2026 · 1:00am Most read today Haight bar owner arrested after alleged baseball-bat attack over parking spot Muni throat-slashing victim was protecting women from harassment before attack: DA 6 comments The 49ers dodged another injury disaster. Now comes the hard part In-laws took turns shooting NYT engineer to death in Dublin parking lot, witnesses say Rent Check Burned out: Fires are raging in rent-controlled apartments, leaving tenants gasping 7 comments Social Links (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) (opens in new tab) Footer Navigation About Us Staff Standards & Ethics Newsletters Mobile App (opens in new tab) Jobs (opens in new tab) Contact Us Tips Advertising Sign In Paid Subscription Subscription FAQs © The San Francisco Standard. All Rights Reserved. Legal Information Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Resident Rights Privacy Center