--- page 1 ---
SAN JOSE
San Jose police officer fired for misusing Flock camera data,
chief says
The controversial cameras have been under fire with privacy groups saying the risk of abuse
outweighs the benefit of the cameras for crime fighting.
By Robert Handa • Published September 11, 2026 • Updated on September 11, 2026 at 5:29 pm
A San Jose police officer has been fired after being accused of accessing the department’s network of Flock
license plate reading cameras for personal use, San Jose police Chief Paul Joseph said Friday. Robert Handa
reports.
 Watch 24/7
TRENDING
Rural Brentwood crash
 Betty Ong honored
 Jack Grandcolas
 SF Opera orc…

--- page 2 ---
A San Jose police officer has been fired after being accused of accessing the department's
network of Flock license plate reading cameras for personal use, San Jose police Chief Paul
Joseph said Friday.
The controversial cameras have been under fire for months with many privacy groups saying the
risk of abuse outweighs the benefit of the cameras for crime fighting.
Watch NBC Bay Area News free wherever you are
  WATCH HERE
"This is a betrayal of the public trust -- plain and simple," Joseph said. "There's no other way to put
it."
The Automated License Plate Readers, or ALPRs, are a big part of police operations, which makes
the violation by the police officer significant and an embarrassment to the department.
Redwood City reportedly ending Flock Safety camera contract
Palo Alto prepares to audit Flock camera system amid questions over data
access
Brentwood orders removal of HOA license plate readers approved by mistake
SJPD said the cameras have been important tools in fighting crime.
Police recently used them to track down an exceptionally dangerous armed robbery suspect.
Officers managed to track the suspect even after he switched license plates.
Critics of the cameras have repeatedly raised red flags, saying they can and have been misused by
officers for personal or illegal reasons.
AUG 27
AUG 21
AUG 17

--- page 3 ---
San Jose leaders have tried to reassure critics and created safeguards.
But on Friday the chief acknowledged the officers in the investigation is accused of accessing
Flock camera data on his personal phone to help a family member last spring.
"The officer accessed license plate reader data and provided that to a suspect in a domestic
violence situation, which enabled that suspect to locate a victim," Joseph said. "When we learned
about this, we immediately placed this officer on administrative leave. We launched a criminal
investigation into his conduct. We referred that investigation to the district attorney‘s office and
we ultimately terminated that police officer."
San Jose leaders will debate curbing the use of license plate readers over privacy concerns. Kris Sanchez
reports.
Joseph said since learning about the incident, he has made changes to the policy to ensure the
data cannot be accessed on a personal device.
"I was furious that an officer would betray the public trust in that manner," Joseph said. "That he
would not understand how serious of a violation this is."
1:43
San Jose to consider new Flock Safety camera restrictions

--- page 4 ---
Immigrants rights group Services, Immigrant Rights And Education Network, or SIREN, is not
satisfied with the fallout and said the cameras amount to mass surveillance and should be turned
off.
"Mass surveillance is not public safety and these cameras are only creating new threats," said
Kimberly Woo, a SIREN community organizers. "It goes way beyond just one officer and one
vendor and one company because overwhelming evidence has shown across the country local
agencies and ALPR vendors have grossly mishandled and abused our data."
This article tagged under:
 
SAN JOSE
ONLINE SHOPPING TOOLS | SPONSORED
Learn More
Amazon Faces Its Worst Nightmare as Shoppers Cancel Prime Over This Clever Hack
SMART TRAVEL TIPS | SPONSORED
Learn More
Seniors Above 55 Years Of Age Can Now Fly Business Class For The Price of Economy
YAHOO | SPONSORED
Learn more
Related Searches
SEARCHRESULTOFFERS | SEARCH ADS | SPONSORED
Learn More
New SUVs With Tiny Price Tags (Take A Look)
SEARCHRESULTOFFERS | SEARCH ADS | SPONSORED
Learn More
Not Your Typical Dating Sites For Singles Over 50

--- page 5 ---
Weather Forecast
SAN JOSE, CA
54°
Clear
0% Precip
TONIGHT
56°
TOMORROW
81°
SUBMIT TIPS FOR INVESTIGATIONS
NEWSLETTERS
ABOUT US
CONNECT WITH US
OUR NEWS STANDARDS
NBC SPORTS BAY AREA
XFINITY: INTERNET, TV, STREAMING, MORE
KNTV Public Inspection File
KNTV Accessibility
KNTV Employment Information
Send Feedback
FCC Applications
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Your Privacy Choices
Advertise with us
CA Notice
Ad Choices
Copyright © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC. All rights reserved