Protesters push San Jose to shut down Flock camera network – NBC Bay Area Skip to content Main Navigation Search Search for: Local Weather WE INVESTIGATE Video Newsletters Watch 24/7 Create profile / Log in Dashboard Email preferences Sign out Trending SF shelter-in-place Deadly Dublin shooting Delivery impersonators arrested 🛩️ Fleet Week 🎙️ Women Who Lead 🗳️ Election guide Expand San Jose ‘Surveillance is not safety': Protesters push San Jose to shut down Flock camera network The protesters rallied at City Hall before taking their complaints before a key City Council committee that's trying to figure out the future of Flock cameras in San Jose. By Robert Handa • Published September 30, 2026 • Updated on September 30, 2026 at 8:56 pm BOOKMARKER NBC Universal, Inc. Protesters on Wednesday issued a renewed call for San Jose to shut down its network of roughly 500 automated license plate reading cameras. Robert Handa reports. Protesters on Wednesday issued a renewed call for San Jose to shut down its network of roughly 500 automated license plate reading cameras. The protesters rallied at City Hall before taking their complaints before a key City Council committee that's trying to figure out the future of Flock cameras in San Jose. Supporters of the cameras argue they are invaluable public safety tools, while critics say they're a dangerous invasion of privacy that are already being abused by law enforcement. Watch NBC Bay Area News free wherever you are WATCH HERE Community groups represented in Wednesday's protest have already filed a lawsuit against San Jose over the automated license plate readers (ALPRs). The protesters said a system that records so many people is a violation of privacy, adding the data can be abused to target groups or individuals. "Surveillance is not safety," EFF Associate Director Rin Alajaji said. "That’s why EFF and the ACLU of Northern California are suing the city of San Jose on behalf of SIREN and CAIR, because in a single year San Jose PD ran over 250,000 warrantless searches on this location data." Community anger recently intensified after NBC Bay Area reported a police officer had been fired after accessing ALPR data to help a family member involved in a domestic violence case. The gap between when the breach was discovered and when the officer was fired was more than a year. "None of this was disclosed to the council when it was reviewing the rules for ALPRs, including one of the rules being that there must be disclosure when an abuse occurs," SIREN Executive Director Huy Tran said. The protesters took their complaints to the city's rules committee, which was looking at two separate memos by councilmembers to revamp the ALPR system. Local Elizabeth Holmes 1 hour ago No longer a secret, Nathan Fielder's Elizabeth Holmes doc ‘You Can See Everything' lands in New York Oakland 1 hour ago Oakland's Skyline High cancels remainder of varsity football season "We definitely need to put provisions into place to create a system that is safer with more verifications, with opportunities to make our community feel safer and trust us again," Vice Mayor Pam Foley said. The memos indicate officials would like to keep the cameras operating with more scrutiny, while protesters want them shut off. The committee told city staff to come back with a plan on how to approach revamping the system. Public hearings will then be held by the full council before any final decisions are made. This article tagged under: San Jose on now Hollywood Reeltime Trending Stories oil and gas California gas prices nearing all-time records as Newsom approves early winter-blend shift Dublin Couple accused of lying in wait before killing son-in-law at Dublin park San Jose Delivery impersonators arrested for alleged home invasion attempt in San Jose Oakland Oakland's Skyline High cancels remainder of varsity football season Elizabeth Holmes No longer a secret, Nathan Fielder's Elizabeth Holmes doc ‘You Can See Everything' lands in New York Weather Forecast San Jose, CA ° % Precip Tonight ° Tomorrow ° Facebook Instagram TikTok Youtube Submit Tips for Investigations Newsletters About Us Connect With Us Our News Standards NBC Sports Bay Area Xfinity: Internet, TV, streaming, more KNTV Public Inspection File KNTV Accessibility KNTV Employment Information Send Feedback FCC Applications Terms of Service Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Advertise with us CA Notice Ad Choices Copyright © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC. All rights reserved Close Menu Create profile / Log in Dashboard Search for: Local Climate in Crisis Making It In The Bay Weather Weather Alerts State U.S. & World Sports WE INVESTIGATE Submit a tip Digital Series NBC Bay Area Responds Submit a consumer complaint How To Explainers Sand Hill Road Newsletters California Live Entertainment Video Traffic About Us Our News Standards TV Schedule Submit Photos and Video Contests Newsletters TV Schedule Our Apps Cozi TV NBC Sports Bay Area Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok Youtube Contact Us