--- page 1 ---
MARIN COUNTY
Marin County residents concerned after report reveals Flock
cameras data breach
The Marin County Sheriff's Office says out-of-state agencies accessed data from the county’s
cameras for nine weeks without the department’s permission.
By Jodi Hernandez • Published October 2, 2026 • Updated on October 2, 2026 at 6:39 pm
A North Bay newspaper says Flock cameras operated by the Marin County Sheriff’s Department were
accessed thousands of times by out of state and federal agencies. Critics say that’s exactly the scenario
they’ve been warning about. Jodi Hernandez reports.
 Watch 24/7
TRENDING
Oakland Hills shooting
 Jed York suspended
 I-80 crash
 ☀️ Heat advisory…

--- page 2 ---
A North Bay newspaper says Flock cameras operated by the Marin County Sheriff’s Department
were accessed thousands of times by out of state and federal agencies. Critics say that’s exactly
the scenario they've been warning about.
The Marin County Sheriff’s Office says its 31 Flock cameras have been a game-changing tool. But
they acknowledge that, somehow, out-of-state agencies accessed data from the county’s cameras
for nine weeks without the department’s permission.
Watch NBC Bay Area News free wherever you are
  WATCH HERE
“I feel sad for our community. I definitely feel that our shared sense of safety and trust has
eroded,” Tara Evans said. Evans was among three residents who sued and later reached a
settlement with the county in 2022.
“That case we actually found that the sheriff’s office was sharing driver license plate information
out of state for the express purpose of assisting with federal immigration enforcement,” Nick
Hildago with ACLU said.
The Point Reyes Light newspaper discovered that multiple out-of-state agencies conducted more
than 250,000 searches of Marin County’s camera data in late 2024.
“It is a menace to the safety of California residents for the Marin sheriff to be violating state law
and letting license plate reader data leave our state and go to federal and out of state police
departments,” Adam Schwartz with Electronic Frontier Foundation said.
The Marin County Sheriff’s Department acknowledged they learned in late 2024 that a breech had
taken place for nine weeks without their knowledge in a statement that said, “upon discovering the
issue, we again immediately deactivated the ability for out-of-state agencies to view our limited
data.”
Local

--- page 3 ---
Gabby Williams scores 19 as Valkyries rally from 16 down to beat Wings 77-73,
reach WNBA semifinals
1 dead following multi-vehicle crash on I-80 in Berkeley
The sheriff’s office says they are still waiting to hear from Flock why it happened, but says,
“Protecting Marin County residents’ privacy is our responsibility, and we remain committed to
transparency and accountability.”
The Electronic Frontier Foundation and the ACLU have sent a letter to the department demanding
answers.
“We have no idea whether these were run to prosecute someone seeking an abortion to assist
with ICE to track people who exercise their first amendment rights to protest or what have you. We
just don’t know,” Hidalgo said.
Evans says she’ll keep fighting to protect her community and says she’s considering filing another
lawsuit.
This article tagged under:
 
Weather Forecast
SAN JOSE, CA
TONIGHT
8 HOURS AGO
13 HOURS AGO
MARIN COUNTY

--- page 4 ---
60°
Clear
0% Precip
69°
TOMORROW
95°
PRESENTED BY
SUBMIT TIPS FOR INVESTIGATIONS
NEWSLETTERS
ABOUT US
CONNECT WITH US
OUR NEWS STANDARDS
NBC SPORTS BAY AREA
XFINITY: INTERNET, TV, STREAMING, MORE
KNTV Public Inspection File
KNTV Accessibility
KNTV Employment Information
Send Feedback
FCC Applications
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Your Privacy Choices
Advertise with us
CA Notice
Ad Choices
Copyright © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC. All rights reserved