Türkiye fans flock to Santa Clara for World Cup match – NBC Bay Area Skip to content Main Navigation Search Search for: Local Weather WE INVESTIGATE Video Newsletters World Cup Watch 24/7 Create profile / Log in Dashboard Email preferences Sign out Trending USMNT advances Gas prices Shark sighting Giants controversy ⚽ World Cup guide Expand World Cup Türkiye fans flock to Santa Clara to watch team play in World Cup match By Robert Handa • Published June 19, 2026 • Updated on June 19, 2026 at 7:03 pm BOOKMARKER NBC Universal, Inc. Thousands of Turkish Americans gathered in Santa Clara Friday to cheer on Türkiye in its World Cup match against Paraguay at San Francisco Bay Area Stadium. Robert Handa reports. Thousands of Turkish Americans gathered in Santa Clara Friday to cheer on Türkiye in its World Cup match against Paraguay at San Francisco Bay Area Stadium. The Turkish American fans who showed up in the South Bay didn’t just come from around the Bay Area. They traveled from all over the world. Watch NBC Bay Area News free wherever you are WATCH HERE "I met Turks from Australia, from Europe, from Asia, from Canada," Ergun Kirlikovli of Los Angeles said. "Of course we’re like long lost brothers. We hug, we kiss, and we say where are you from and all that." One of the prominent Turkish Americans on scene in Santa Clara was Hamit Altintop, a soccer hero in Türkiye. "All cultures, all communities, all generations are coming together and we are speaking only for one month just about fútbol," he said. "This is insane." The gathering near San Francisco Bay Area Stadium was just one of many events taking place Friday. The Ataturk cultural house in Mountain View, run by the Turkish American Association of California, will serve as another major gathering place throughout the tournament. "The World Cup means that we are one," Turkish American Association President Nalan Ozisik said. "No matter what we think politically, how we observe our various religious beliefs or what our ethnicity is, none of that matters anymore. This is World Cup and Türkiye is there after 24 years. That's all that matters today." 2026 World Cup 14 hours ago USMNT advances to World Cup knockout rounds with 2-0 win vs. Australia World Cup 13 hours ago World Cup fans joke about gaining ‘The FIFA 15' as they try ranch and other American foods 2026 World Cup Jun 18 Mexico becomes first country to reach knockout stage of World Cup, beating South Korea 1-0 This article tagged under: World Cup 2026 World Cup on now 4AM: NBC Bay Area Late News Trending Stories California Man uses drone to warn surfer of shark circling beneath him off Santa Cruz coast Hayward Brush fire burns near Cal State East Bay campus San Francisco DOJ opens civil rights probe into MLB after Giants' Pride Night hat controversy San Jose Security increases in downtown San Jose as thousands expected for World Cup watch party Santa Clara U.S. to play Round of 32 World Cup match in Santa Clara Weather Forecast San Jose, CA ° % Precip Tonight ° Tomorrow ° Facebook Instagram TikTok Youtube Submit Tips for Investigations Newsletters About Us Connect With Us Our News Standards NBC Sports Bay Area Xfinity: Internet, TV, streaming, more KNTV Public Inspection File KNTV Accessibility KNTV Employment Information Send Feedback FCC Applications Terms of Service Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Advertise with us CA Notice Ad Choices Copyright © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC. All rights reserved Close Menu Create profile / Log in Dashboard Search for: Super Bowl Local Climate in Crisis Making It In The Bay Weather Weather Alerts State U.S. & World Sports WE INVESTIGATE Submit a tip Digital Series NBC Bay Area Responds Submit a consumer complaint How To Explainers Sand Hill Road Newsletters California Live Entertainment Video About Us Our News Standards TV Schedule Submit Photos and Video Contests Newsletters TV Schedule Our Apps Cozi TV NBC Sports Bay Area Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok Youtube Contact Us