SF to keep Flock cameras with new limits on data access – NBC Bay Area Skip to content Main Navigation Search Search for: Local Weather WE INVESTIGATE Video Newsletters Watch 24/7 Create profile / Log in Dashboard Email preferences Sign out Trending OPD Diddy Hilton interview ⚾ Playoff baseball 🛩️ Fleet Week 🎙️ Women Who Lead 🗳️ Election guide Expand San Francisco San Francisco to keep Flock cameras with new limits on data access City leaders said they want to strike a balance between effective law enforcement and protecting civil liberties. By NBC Bay Area staff • Published September 29, 2026 • Updated on September 29, 2026 at 3:20 pm BOOKMARKER NBC Universal, Inc. San Francisco leaders on Tuesday rolled out new rules for the police department when it comes to using data from the city’s network of license plate reading cameras. Sergio Quintana reports. San Francisco will keep its Flock license plate cameras but put new limits on who can access the data they record, officials announced Tuesday. City leaders said they want to strike a balance between effective law enforcement and protecting civil liberties. Watch NBC Bay Area News free wherever you are WATCH HERE Under the new policy, officers will need approval from leadership and a connection to an active criminal investigation to search data tied to the city's network of automated license plate readers (ALPR). The data will also be removed from Flock's platform after 30 days. San Francisco police will keep their own copy for up to a year. The city's Department of Police Accountability will also conduct regular audits on how the department is handing its ALPR data. The city's Human Rights Commission recently completed its own independent audit, making a few recommendations on better practices. The police department has also conducted its own internal audits and announced some of its key findings earlier this year that led to tightened controls on outside agencies that access the city's ALPR data. Local San Jose 6 hours ago San Jose City Council approves municipal garage rate hikes, puts street parking meter increases on hold Homelessness 8 hours ago HUD's $4 billion grant program aims to reduce homelessness, but will it do the opposite? District Attorney Brooke Jenkins said she asked state Assemblymember Matt Haney to work on state legislation that would make it a crime for a police officer or anyone else to access ALPR data for personal or inappropriate reasons. "I became concerned not only with the fact that people were being put in harm's way by the misuse and abuse of access to this data, but also that if that continued to happen we would compromise our ability here in San Francisco to be able to continue to use the technology," Jenkins said. Jenkins and Haney are considering if proposed state legal sanctions would be misdemeanor and/or potentially felony charges. This article tagged under: San Francisco on now Live: Today in the Bay @ 5AM Trending Stories San Jose Woman accused of hate crimes in viral San Jose video appears in court oil and gas California gas prices nearing all-time records as Newsom approves early winter-blend shift East Palo Alto 2 killed, 3 injured in multi-vehicle crash in East Palo Alto Dublin Elderly in-laws to be arraigned in fatal shooting of NYT executive in Dublin park Alameda County FBI suspects former Alameda County firefighter faked death to evade child porn charges Weather Forecast San Jose, CA ° % Precip Tonight ° Tomorrow ° Facebook Instagram TikTok Youtube Submit Tips for Investigations Newsletters About Us Connect With Us Our News Standards NBC Sports Bay Area Xfinity: Internet, TV, streaming, more KNTV Public Inspection File KNTV Accessibility KNTV Employment Information Send Feedback FCC Applications Terms of Service Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Advertise with us CA Notice Ad Choices Copyright © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC. All rights reserved Close Menu Create profile / Log in Dashboard Search for: Local Climate in Crisis Making It In The Bay Weather Weather Alerts State U.S. & World Sports WE INVESTIGATE Submit a tip Digital Series NBC Bay Area Responds Submit a consumer complaint How To Explainers Sand Hill Road Newsletters California Live Entertainment Video Traffic About Us Our News Standards TV Schedule Submit Photos and Video Contests Newsletters TV Schedule Our Apps Cozi TV NBC Sports Bay Area Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok Youtube Contact Us