San Jose police officer fired for misusing Flock camera data, chief says – NBC Bay Area Skip to content Main Navigation Search Search for: Local Weather WE INVESTIGATE Video Newsletters Watch 24/7 Create profile / Log in Dashboard Email preferences Sign out Trending Rural Brentwood crash Betty Ong honored Jack Grandcolas SF Opera orchestra strike SJPD officer fired Abandoned boat Expand San Jose San Jose police officer fired for misusing Flock camera data, chief says The controversial cameras have been under fire with privacy groups saying the risk of abuse outweighs the benefit of the cameras for crime fighting. By Robert Handa • Published September 11, 2026 • Updated on September 11, 2026 at 5:29 pm BOOKMARKER NBC Universal, Inc. A San Jose police officer has been fired after being accused of accessing the department’s network of Flock license plate reading cameras for personal use, San Jose police Chief Paul Joseph said Friday. Robert Handa reports. A San Jose police officer has been fired after being accused of accessing the department's network of Flock license plate reading cameras for personal use, San Jose police Chief Paul Joseph said Friday. The controversial cameras have been under fire for months with many privacy groups saying the risk of abuse outweighs the benefit of the cameras for crime fighting. Watch NBC Bay Area News free wherever you are WATCH HERE "This is a betrayal of the public trust -- plain and simple," Joseph said. "There's no other way to put it." The Automated License Plate Readers, or ALPRs, are a big part of police operations, which makes the violation by the police officer significant and an embarrassment to the department. Redwood City Aug 27 Redwood City reportedly ending Flock Safety camera contract Palo Alto Aug 21 Palo Alto prepares to audit Flock camera system amid questions over data access Brentwood Aug 17 Brentwood orders removal of HOA license plate readers approved by mistake SJPD said the cameras have been important tools in fighting crime. Police recently used them to track down an exceptionally dangerous armed robbery suspect. Officers managed to track the suspect even after he switched license plates. Critics of the cameras have repeatedly raised red flags, saying they can and have been misused by officers for personal or illegal reasons. San Jose leaders have tried to reassure critics and created safeguards. But on Friday the chief acknowledged the officers in the investigation is accused of accessing Flock camera data on his personal phone to help a family member last spring. "The officer accessed license plate reader data and provided that to a suspect in a domestic violence situation, which enabled that suspect to locate a victim," Joseph said. "When we learned about this, we immediately placed this officer on administrative leave. We launched a criminal investigation into his conduct. We referred that investigation to the district attorney‘s office and we ultimately terminated that police officer." San Jose leaders will debate curbing the use of license plate readers over privacy concerns. Kris Sanchez reports. Joseph said since learning about the incident, he has made changes to the policy to ensure the data cannot be accessed on a personal device. "I was furious that an officer would betray the public trust in that manner," Joseph said. "That he would not understand how serious of a violation this is." Immigrants rights group Services, Immigrant Rights And Education Network, or SIREN, is not satisfied with the fallout and said the cameras amount to mass surveillance and should be turned off. "Mass surveillance is not public safety and these cameras are only creating new threats," said Kimberly Woo, a SIREN community organizers. "It goes way beyond just one officer and one vendor and one company because overwhelming evidence has shown across the country local agencies and ALPR vendors have grossly mishandled and abused our data." This article tagged under: San Jose on now Live: Today in the Bay @ 5AM Trending Stories Celebrity News Sydney Sweeney's new sports trading ad draws backlash from female athletes Oakland 2 Oakland police officers indicted on federal conspiracy, fraud charges Contra Costa County Coast Guard seeks owner after abandoned boat found playing stereo near Discovery Bay Contra Costa County 2 teens dead, 2 people injured after crash in rural Brentwood San Francisco San Francisco Opera cancels opening night and Opera in the Park after orchestra strikes Weather Forecast San Jose, CA ° % Precip Tonight ° Tomorrow ° Facebook Instagram TikTok Youtube Submit Tips for Investigations Newsletters About Us Connect With Us Our News Standards NBC Sports Bay Area Xfinity: Internet, TV, streaming, more KNTV Public Inspection File KNTV Accessibility KNTV Employment Information Send Feedback FCC Applications Terms of Service Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Advertise with us CA Notice Ad Choices Copyright © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC. All rights reserved Close Menu Create profile / Log in Dashboard Search for: Local Climate in Crisis Making It In The Bay Weather Weather Alerts State U.S. & World Sports WE INVESTIGATE Submit a tip Digital Series NBC Bay Area Responds Submit a consumer complaint How To Explainers Sand Hill Road Newsletters California Live Entertainment Video Traffic About Us Our News Standards TV Schedule Submit Photos and Video Contests Newsletters TV Schedule Our Apps Cozi TV NBC Sports Bay Area Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok Youtube Contact Us