--- page 1 ---
SAN JOSE
‘Surveillance is not safety': Protesters push San Jose to shut
down Flock camera network
The protesters rallied at City Hall before taking their complaints before a key City Council
committee that's trying to figure out the future of Flock cameras in San Jose.
By Robert Handa • Published September 30, 2026 • Updated on September 30, 2026 at 8:56 pm
Protesters on Wednesday issued a renewed call for San Jose to shut down its network of roughly 500
automated license plate reading cameras. Robert Handa reports.
 Watch 24/7
TRENDING
SF shelter-in-place
 Deadly Dublin shooting
 Delivery impersonators arrested…

--- page 2 ---
Protesters on Wednesday issued a renewed call for San Jose to shut down its network of roughly
500 automated license plate reading cameras.
The protesters rallied at City Hall before taking their complaints before a key City Council
committee that's trying to figure out the future of Flock cameras in San Jose. Supporters of the
cameras argue they are invaluable public safety tools, while critics say they're a dangerous
invasion of privacy that are already being abused by law enforcement.
Watch NBC Bay Area News free wherever you are
  WATCH HERE
Community groups represented in Wednesday's protest have already filed a lawsuit against San
Jose over the automated license plate readers (ALPRs). The protesters said a system that records
so many people is a violation of privacy, adding the data can be abused to target groups or
individuals.
"Surveillance is not safety," EFF Associate Director Rin Alajaji said. "That’s why EFF and the ACLU
of Northern California are suing the city of San Jose on behalf of SIREN and CAIR, because in a
single year San Jose PD ran over 250,000 warrantless searches on this location data."
Community anger recently intensified after NBC Bay Area reported a police officer had been fired
after accessing ALPR data to help a family member involved in a domestic violence case. The gap
between when the breach was discovered and when the officer was fired was more than a year.
"None of this was disclosed to the council when it was reviewing the rules for ALPRs, including
one of the rules being that there must be disclosure when an abuse occurs," SIREN Executive
Director Huy Tran said.
The protesters took their complaints to the city's rules committee, which was looking at two
separate memos by councilmembers to revamp the ALPR system.
Local

--- page 3 ---
No longer a secret, Nathan Fielder's Elizabeth Holmes doc ‘You Can See
Everything' lands in New York
Oakland's Skyline High cancels remainder of varsity football season
"We definitely need to put provisions into place to create a system that is safer with more
verifications, with opportunities to make our community feel safer and trust us again," Vice Mayor
Pam Foley said.
The memos indicate officials would like to keep the cameras operating with more scrutiny, while
protesters want them shut off.
The committee told city staff to come back with a plan on how to approach revamping the
system. Public hearings will then be held by the full council before any final decisions are made.
This article tagged under:
 
Weather Forecast
SAN JOSE, CA
75°
Sunny
0% Precip
TONIGHT
62°
TOMORROW
87°
1 HOUR AGO
1 HOUR AGO
SAN JOSE

--- page 4 ---
SUBMIT TIPS FOR INVESTIGATIONS
NEWSLETTERS
ABOUT US
CONNECT WITH US
OUR NEWS STANDARDS
NBC SPORTS BAY AREA
XFINITY: INTERNET, TV, STREAMING, MORE
KNTV Public Inspection File
KNTV Accessibility
KNTV Employment Information
Send Feedback
FCC Applications
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Your Privacy Choices
Advertise with us
CA Notice
Ad Choices
Copyright © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC. All rights reserved