Marin County residents concerned after report reveals Flock cameras data breach – NBC Bay Area Skip to content Main Navigation Search Search for: Local Weather WE INVESTIGATE Video Newsletters Watch 24/7 Create profile / Log in Dashboard Email preferences Sign out Trending Oakland Hills shooting Jed York suspended I-80 crash ☀️ Heat advisory 🛩️ Fleet Week 🎙️ Women Who Lead 🗳️ Election guide Expand Marin County Marin County residents concerned after report reveals Flock cameras data breach The Marin County Sheriff's Office says out-of-state agencies accessed data from the county’s cameras for nine weeks without the department’s permission. By Jodi Hernandez • Published October 2, 2026 • Updated on October 2, 2026 at 6:39 pm BOOKMARKER NBC Universal, Inc. A North Bay newspaper says Flock cameras operated by the Marin County Sheriff’s Department were accessed thousands of times by out of state and federal agencies. Critics say that’s exactly the scenario they’ve been warning about. Jodi Hernandez reports. A North Bay newspaper says Flock cameras operated by the Marin County Sheriff’s Department were accessed thousands of times by out of state and federal agencies. Critics say that’s exactly the scenario they've been warning about. The Marin County Sheriff’s Office says its 31 Flock cameras have been a game-changing tool. But they acknowledge that, somehow, out-of-state agencies accessed data from the county’s cameras for nine weeks without the department’s permission. Watch NBC Bay Area News free wherever you are WATCH HERE “I feel sad for our community. I definitely feel that our shared sense of safety and trust has eroded,” Tara Evans said. Evans was among three residents who sued and later reached a settlement with the county in 2022. “That case we actually found that the sheriff’s office was sharing driver license plate information out of state for the express purpose of assisting with federal immigration enforcement,” Nick Hildago with ACLU said. The Point Reyes Light newspaper discovered that multiple out-of-state agencies conducted more than 250,000 searches of Marin County’s camera data in late 2024. “It is a menace to the safety of California residents for the Marin sheriff to be violating state law and letting license plate reader data leave our state and go to federal and out of state police departments,” Adam Schwartz with Electronic Frontier Foundation said. The Marin County Sheriff’s Department acknowledged they learned in late 2024 that a breech had taken place for nine weeks without their knowledge in a statement that said, “upon discovering the issue, we again immediately deactivated the ability for out-of-state agencies to view our limited data.” Local Golden State Valkyries 8 hours ago Gabby Williams scores 19 as Valkyries rally from 16 down to beat Wings 77-73, reach WNBA semifinals Berkeley 13 hours ago 1 dead following multi-vehicle crash on I-80 in Berkeley The sheriff’s office says they are still waiting to hear from Flock why it happened, but says, “Protecting Marin County residents’ privacy is our responsibility, and we remain committed to transparency and accountability.” The Electronic Frontier Foundation and the ACLU have sent a letter to the department demanding answers. “We have no idea whether these were run to prosecute someone seeking an abortion to assist with ICE to track people who exercise their first amendment rights to protest or what have you. We just don’t know,” Hidalgo said. Evans says she’ll keep fighting to protect her community and says she’s considering filing another lawsuit. This article tagged under: Marin County on now 5AM: NBC Bay Area Late News Trending Stories Elizabeth Holmes No longer a secret, Nathan Fielder's Elizabeth Holmes doc ‘You Can See Everything' lands in New York Oakland Oakland's Skyline High cancels remainder of varsity football season Golden State Valkyries Gabby Williams scores 19 as Valkyries rally from 16 down to beat Wings 77-73, reach WNBA semifinals Oakland Man, woman dead after shooting at Oakland Hills home San Jose San Jose pantry using sidewalk to hand out food facing city code violations Weather Forecast San Jose, CA ° % Precip Tonight ° Tomorrow ° Facebook Instagram TikTok Youtube Submit Tips for Investigations Newsletters About Us Connect With Us Our News Standards NBC Sports Bay Area Xfinity: Internet, TV, streaming, more KNTV Public Inspection File KNTV Accessibility KNTV Employment Information Send Feedback FCC Applications Terms of Service Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Advertise with us CA Notice Ad Choices Copyright © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC. All rights reserved Close Menu Create profile / Log in Dashboard Search for: Local Climate in Crisis Making It In The Bay Weather Weather Alerts State U.S. & World Sports WE INVESTIGATE Submit a tip Digital Series NBC Bay Area Responds Submit a consumer complaint How To Explainers Sand Hill Road Newsletters California Live Entertainment Video Traffic About Us Our News Standards TV Schedule Submit Photos and Video Contests Newsletters TV Schedule Our Apps Cozi TV NBC Sports Bay Area Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok Youtube Contact Us Residents of the states listed in the ‘Your Rights’ section of our Privacy Policy: we have received your Global Privacy Control signal or you have opted out from the toggle below, but there is another step. To opt out of the “sale” or “sharing” of contact information such as your name, email address and other associated personal information or processing it for targeted ads, please submit the form below. ALL OTHER LOCATIONS: If we do not detect that you are in one of the states listed in the ‘Your Rights’ section of our Privacy Policy, we cannot ensure these choices will be honored by all third parties even if you toggle this button off. Your Privacy Choices: Opt-out of sale or sharing of personal information and opt out of targeted ads When you interact with us or our services, we may disclose personal information to third parties, partners, and NBCUniversal’s Related Businesses as described in our Privacy Policy . Some of this activity may be considered a "sale" or "share” under applicable law (residents of applicable states can learn more here ). To opt out of such “sale” or “sharing,” follow the steps below. Opting out will also prevent the processing of your personal information for targeted ads. For direct contact information such as your name, email address and other associated personal information, please submit the form below first. For cookies and devices identifiers: switch the “Allow Sale/Share/Targeted Ads” toggle under Manage Preferences to OFF (grey color) by moving it LEFT and clicking “Confirm My Choice.” You must log in to your account first if you want your choice to apply across browsers and devices that you access through your account. This will close this box, so please open the Opt-Out Form first. Please note: Opting out will also prevent disclosure of personal information to our Related Businesses (except as necessary for the provision of services or when you permit to such disclosure). You will still see ads, but they may be less relevant or based only on our first-party information about you. Your choices related to cookies and device identifiers will apply to devices accessed with your logged in account if you opt out (or opt back in) when you are logged in. If you are not logged in, your choice will only apply to this browser, and you will need to renew this choice on each browser or device where you want your choice to apply or if you clear your browser cookies. Manage Preferences: Other Categories of Data Collection Always Active Please see our Cookie Notice for more details which can be found by navigating to the Privacy Policy in the menu settings page. Allow Sale/Share/Targeted Ads Allow Sale/Share/Targeted Ads Resident of the states listed in the 'Your Rights' section of our Privacy Policy Only: To opt out of the “sale” or “sharing” of Personal Information such as cookies and device identifiers, switch this toggle to off (grey color) by moving it left and clicking “Confirm My Choice” below. (This will close this dialogue box, so please open the Opt-Out Form first). ALL OTHER LOCATIONS: If we do not detect that you are in one of the states listed in 'Your Rights' section of our Privacy Policy, we cannot ensure this choice will be honored by all third parties even if you toggle this button off. You can change your precise geolocation permissions for our mobile apps in your mobile device settings. Opt-Out Form Always Active To opt out of the “sale” or “sharing” of your contact information such as name, email address and other associated personal information, please complete this Opt-Out Form . This will also prevent the processing of such personal information for targeted ads. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choice