--- page 1 ---
SAN FRANCISCO
San Francisco to keep Flock cameras with new limits on data
access
City leaders said they want to strike a balance between effective law enforcement and protecting
civil liberties.
By NBC Bay Area staff • Published September 29, 2026 • Updated on September 29, 2026 at 3:20 pm
San Francisco leaders on Tuesday rolled out new rules for the police department when it comes to using data
from the city’s network of license plate reading cameras. Sergio Quintana reports.
 Watch 24/7
TRENDING
OPD
 Diddy
 Hilton interview
 ⚾ Playoff baseball
 🛩️ Fleet Week
 🎙️ Wo…

--- page 2 ---
San Francisco will keep its Flock license plate cameras but put new limits on who can access the
data they record, officials announced Tuesday.
City leaders said they want to strike a balance between effective law enforcement and protecting
civil liberties.
Watch NBC Bay Area News free wherever you are
  WATCH HERE
Under the new policy, officers will need approval from leadership and a connection to an active
criminal investigation to search data tied to the city's network of automated license plate readers
(ALPR).
The data will also be removed from Flock's platform after 30 days. San Francisco police will keep
their own copy for up to a year.
The city's Department of Police Accountability will also conduct regular audits on how the
department is handing its ALPR data.
The city's Human Rights Commission recently completed its own independent audit, making a few
recommendations on better practices.
The police department has also conducted its own internal audits and announced some of its key
findings earlier this year that led to tightened controls on outside agencies that access the city's
ALPR data.
Local
San Jose City Council approves municipal garage rate hikes, puts street parking
meter increases on hold
HUD's $4 billion grant program aims to reduce homelessness, but will it do the
opposite?
6 HOURS AGO
8 HOURS AGO

--- page 3 ---
District Attorney Brooke Jenkins said she asked state Assemblymember Matt Haney to work on
state legislation that would make it a crime for a police officer or anyone else to access ALPR
data for personal or inappropriate reasons.
"I became concerned not only with the fact that people were being put in harm's way by the
misuse and abuse of access to this data, but also that if that continued to happen we would
compromise our ability here in San Francisco to be able to continue to use the technology,"
Jenkins said.
Jenkins and Haney are considering if proposed state legal sanctions would be misdemeanor
and/or potentially felony charges.
This article tagged under:
 
Weather Forecast
SAN JOSE, CA
57°
Clear
0% Precip
TONIGHT
59°
TOMORROW
88°
SAN FRANCISCO

--- page 4 ---
SUBMIT TIPS FOR INVESTIGATIONS
NEWSLETTERS
ABOUT US
CONNECT WITH US
OUR NEWS STANDARDS
NBC SPORTS BAY AREA
XFINITY: INTERNET, TV, STREAMING, MORE
KNTV Public Inspection File
KNTV Accessibility
KNTV Employment Information
Send Feedback
FCC Applications
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Your Privacy Choices
Advertise with us
CA Notice
Ad Choices
Copyright © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC. All rights reserved