Bay Area heat advisory extended through Thursday – NBC Bay Area Skip to content Main Navigation Search Search for: Local Weather WE INVESTIGATE Video Newsletters Watch 24/7 Create profile / Log in Dashboard Email preferences Sign out Trending Morgan Hill homicide Oakland Hills shooting Deadly I-280 crash ☀️ Heat advisory 🛩️ Fleet Week 🎙️ Women Who Lead 🗳️ Election guide Expand bay area weather Bay Area heat advisory extended through Thursday A heat advisory remains in effect through 10 p.m. Thursday for much of the interior Bay Area and Central Coast. By Bay City News • Published October 5, 2026 • Updated on October 5, 2026 at 5:29 pm BOOKMARKER NBC Universal, Inc. Chief Meteorologist Jeff Ranieri tracks the heat Tuesday. Plus, the cooler systems that will drop temps and bring in a bit of wind in your full Microclimate Weather forecast. Much of the Bay Area is facing hot weather through Thursday, with moderate to major heat risks expected across inland communities, the National Weather Service said Monday. The hottest areas will be inland valleys, where temperatures are expected to reach the mid-80s to low 100s. The forecast calls for highs around 100 degrees in Concord and Livermore, 96 in Napa and Santa Rosa, and 93 in San Jose on Monday. Watch NBC Bay Area News free wherever you are WATCH HERE A heat advisory remains in effect through 10 p.m. Thursday for much of the interior Bay Area and Central Coast. The weather service warned that the heat can affect people without adequate cooling or hydration and advised residents to move outdoor activities to cooler parts of the day and never leave people or pets unattended in vehicles. The heat will also raise fire danger in higher terrain through Thursday. Major HeatRisk is expected to remain widespread in parts of the East Bay through Tuesday and across the Santa Clara Valley through Wednesday. ⚠️Heat Advisory has been extended through Thursday for the interior due to hazardous heat and limited recovery. Stay hydrated, take breaks in the shade, and never leave people or pets in unattended vehicles! #CAwx pic.twitter.com/OxQeS2Y3zS — NWS Bay Area 🌉 (@NWSBayArea) October 5, 2026 Meanwhile, coastal flooding and beach hazards are expected to become a concern beginning Wednesday as high tides push water farther inland along some coastal and bayshore areas. The risks are expected to continue through Sunday. Coastal flooding could affect low-lying roads, parks and trails, while beachgoers should watch for rip currents and sneaker waves. Copyright Bay City News This article tagged under: bay area weather on now 7AM: Today In The Bay Trending Stories San Jose Fatal crash shuts down lanes on northbound I-280 in San Jose San Jose ‘So scary': Police activity at San Jose theater leaves moviegoers frightened Health & Science Stanford professor among trio awarded Nobel medicine prize for brain activity research Oakland Couple found dead at Oakland Hills home identified as owners of fashion company Education California's universal transitional kindergarten faces growing pains with facilities, behavior and play-based learning Weather Forecast San Jose, CA ° % Precip Tonight ° Tomorrow ° Facebook Instagram TikTok Youtube Submit Tips for Investigations Newsletters About Us Connect With Us Our News Standards NBC Sports Bay Area Xfinity: Internet, TV, streaming, more KNTV Public Inspection File KNTV Accessibility KNTV Employment Information Send Feedback FCC Applications Terms of Service Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Advertise with us CA Notice Ad Choices Copyright © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC. All rights reserved Close Menu Create profile / Log in Dashboard Search for: Local Climate in Crisis Making It In The Bay Weather Weather Alerts State U.S. & World Sports WE INVESTIGATE Submit a tip Digital Series NBC Bay Area Responds Submit a consumer complaint How To Explainers Sand Hill Road Newsletters California Live Entertainment Video Traffic About Us Our News Standards TV Schedule Submit Photos and Video Contests Newsletters TV Schedule Our Apps Cozi TV NBC Sports Bay Area Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok Youtube Contact Us