Bay Area temperatures expected to rise – NBC Bay Area Skip to content Main Navigation Search Search for: Local Weather WE INVESTIGATE Video Newsletters World Cup Watch 24/7 Create profile / Log in Dashboard Email preferences Sign out Trending Lionel Messi Deadly e-scooter crash SJ parking meters Beach hazards New laws 🎆 4th of July events ⚽ World Cup guide Expand bay area weather Bay Area temperatures expected to rise through midweek, ocean remains hazardous By Bay City News • Published June 22, 2026 • Updated on June 22, 2026 at 11:17 am BOOKMARKER NBC Universal, Inc. Meteorologist Kari Hall has an update on a valley warm up and weekend outlook in the Microclimate Forecast. A warming trend will build across the Bay Area and Central Coast through midweek, while dangerous beach conditions are expected to persist through Wednesday afternoon, according to the National Weather Service. Temps are expected to gradually climb through the middle of the week, with the warmest conditions arriving on Wednesday. Pockets of Moderate HeatRisk are possible in the Santa Clara Valley, where highs could reach the 80s and lower 90s. The risk is greatest for people sensitive to heat, including older adults, children, people with health conditions and those without adequate cooling or hydration, forecasters said Monday. Watch NBC Bay Area News free wherever you are WATCH HERE While inland temps rise, the weather service is also warning beachgoers about a long-period southerly swell that is increasing the risk of sneaker waves and strong rip currents along the Pacific coast. The greatest threat is expected at south- and southwest-facing beaches from the North Bay to Monterey County. Forecasters urged visitors to stay off jetties, piers and shoreline rocks, and reminded anyone heading to the coast to never turn their back on the ocean. The Beach Hazards Statement remains in effect through Wednesday afternoon. Copyright Bay City News This article tagged under: bay area weather on now NBC Bay Area News Trending Stories San Jose Adobe's third semaphore puzzle solved in San Jose after three years San Jose Bay Area startup opens satellite manufacturing facility in San Jose San Francisco San Francisco home with a history of squatters hits the market for $1.3 million Palo Alto Emergency crews respond to brush fire in Palo Alto San Jose San Jose considers extending parking meter hours, doubling rates downtown Weather Forecast San Jose, CA ° % Precip Tonight ° Tomorrow ° Facebook Instagram TikTok Youtube Submit Tips for Investigations Newsletters About Us Connect With Us Our News Standards NBC Sports Bay Area Xfinity: Internet, TV, streaming, more KNTV Public Inspection File KNTV Accessibility KNTV Employment Information Send Feedback FCC Applications Terms of Service Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Advertise with us CA Notice Ad Choices Copyright © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC. All rights reserved Close Menu Create profile / Log in Dashboard Search for: Super Bowl Local Climate in Crisis Making It In The Bay Weather Weather Alerts State U.S. & World Sports WE INVESTIGATE Submit a tip Digital Series NBC Bay Area Responds Submit a consumer complaint How To Explainers Sand Hill Road Newsletters California Live Entertainment Video About Us Our News Standards TV Schedule Submit Photos and Video Contests Newsletters TV Schedule Our Apps Cozi TV NBC Sports Bay Area Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok Youtube Contact Us