source: packet.pdf
sha256: dacf158b14687c19a13377193ad0de34291dda38ee39c8d3e983c3ac1b7d9226
pages: 460
ocr_pages: 108
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
November 6, 2023
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Amourence Lee, Mayor
Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Adam Loraine
Rob Newsom Jr.
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: November 6, 2023
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 891 1919 6231      Passcode: 583163
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting. 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CEREMONIAL
1.
60  Anniversary of the Sister City Relationship with Toyonaka – Presentation
2.
Maya Nakamura – Proclamation
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
3.
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the special and regular meetings of October 16, 2023.
CEQA: This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
4.
On-Call Public Works Plan Review Services – Agreements
Approve individual on-call professional plan review service agreements through June 30, 2025, with up to two
optional one-year extensions, with: CSG Consultants, Inc. in an amount not to exceed $400,000; Ghirardelli
Associates, Inc. in an amount not to exceed $400,000; and West Coast Code Consultants, Inc. in an amount not to
exceed $400,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreements in substantially the form
presented and execute any future term extensions or amendments that do not change the not to exceed amount
of the agreements.
th
1 of 460

--- page 2 ---
CEQA: The approval of these professional services agreements is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an
organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
5.
Office of Traffic Safety – Appropriation and Grant Spending Plan
Adopt a Resolution to approve a grant spending plan and appropriate funds for the Office of Traffic Safety
Selective Traffic Enforcement Program grant totaling $210,000 and authorize the Chief of Police to accept and
execute the agreement and expend the funds.
CEQA: This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
6.
Peninsula Clean Energy Solar and Storage on Public Buildings Program – Customer Participation Agreement
Authorize the City Manager to enter into a Customer Participation Agreement with Peninsula Clean Energy to
evaluate solar potential at City buildings.
CEQA: This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)
7.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Transfer Pumps Improvements Project – Agreement
Award an agreement to GSW Construction, Inc. for construction of the Transfer Pumps Improvements Project in
an amount not to exceed $810,400; establish a contingency fund in an amount not to exceed $162,000; and
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue
change orders within the contingency amount.
CEQA: The City prepared a Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) in accordance with the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (SCH No. 2015032006). Council, on June 6, 2016, certified the PEIR. In
accordance with CEQA, the Final PEIR serves as the primary environmental compliance document for the
implementation of the Clean Water Program. The City prepared Addenda to the Final PEIR that was approved on
July 16, 2018 (Addendum 1) and April 15, 2019 (Addendum 2). This work is within the scope of the Project
evaluated in the PEIR and Addendum.
8.
Dale Avenue Pumping Station Upgrade – Contingency Amendment
Approve an increase to the contingency reserve associated with the Anvil Builders, Inc. construction contract for
the Dale Avenue Pumping Station Upgrade project in the amount of $2,000,000 for a total contingency of
$7,500,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to issue change orders within the contingency amount.
CEQA: The work addressed by this administrative report is being undertaken to support the Clean Water Program.
This project is subject to the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the general
components of which are included as part of the Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR)
(SCH No. 201532006) that was prepared for the Clean Water Program. The Final PEIR was certified by City Council
on June 6, 2016.
9.
Citywide Street Reconstruction Phase 3 – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 7 to the agreement with Wilsey Ham for engineering services during construction in an
amount not to exceed $21,000 for a new agreement total of $594,874; and authorize the Public Works Director
to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented.
2 of 460

--- page 3 ---
CEQA: This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation,
repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures,
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or
former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
10.
Construction Special Inspection Services for the Clean Water Program – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 2 for professional services with Signet Testing Laboratories, Inc. to provide as-needed
construction special inspection services for various Clean Water Program projects; increase the agreement
amount by $250,000 for a revised not to exceed total of $2,150,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to
execute the amendment in substantially the form presented and issue project-specific task orders under the
agreement.
CEQA: The City prepared a Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) in accordance with the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (SCH No. 2015032006). The PEIR was certified by the Council on June
6, 2016. In accordance with CEQA, the Final PEIR serves as the primary environmental compliance document for
implementation of the Clean Water Program. The City prepared Addenda to the Final PEIR that was approved on
July 16, 2018 (Addendum 1) and April 15, 2019 (Addendum 2). This work is within the scope of the project
evaluated in the PEIR and Addendum.
11.
Integrated Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System Evaluation and Improvement – Change Order
Adopt a Resolution authorizing an alternate purchasing procedure to approve a Contract Change Order No. 1
with Enterprise Automation, LLC (EA) for the design, programming, configuration, installation, testing and
maintenance of the Integrated Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) System in an amount not to
exceed $158,352, for a total contract amount not to exceed $199,156; establish a contingency reserve of
$30,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented and
issue change orders within the contingency amount.
CEQA: This Council action is exempt from CEQA in that it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility this
activity will have a significant effect on the environment, because this activity relates to software technology
support and improvements without any necessary physical changes that may impact the environment. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).)
12.
375 2nd Avenue – Lease Agreement
Approve a lease agreement with Cold Stone Creamery Leasing, Inc. for a five-year term and five-year option, for
the City-owned space at 375 2nd Avenue and authorize the City Manager to execute the lease in substantially the
form presented.
CEQA: This lease agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
13.
On-Call Public Works Engineering Support Services – Agreements
Approve individual on-call professional engineering support services agreements through June 30, 2026, with up
to one optional one-year extension, with: BKF Engineers in an amount not to exceed $400,000; CSG Consultants,
Inc. in an amount not to exceed $400,000; DKS Associates in an amount not to exceed $500,000; Fehr & Peers in
an amount not to exceed $500,000; Krupka Consulting in an amount not to exceed $300,000; and W-Trans in an
amount not to exceed $500,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreements in
substantially the form presented and execute any future term extensions or amendments that do not change the
not to exceed amount of the agreements.
3 of 460

--- page 4 ---
CEQA: The award of these professional services agreements is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an
organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
14.
San Mateo Safety Management Association – Memorandum of Understanding Amendment
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the San Mateo Safety Management
Association for a term through June 21, 2026, and to approve a supplemental budget appropriation in the
amount of $80,000.
CEQA: This Tentative Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which
does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical
impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
15.
Service Employees’ International Union Library Per Diem Unit – Memorandum of Understanding Changes
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the Service Employees’ International
Union (SEIU) Local 521 Library Per Diem Unit for a term through June 21, 2026.
CEQA: This tentative agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which
does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical
impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
16.
Service Employees’ International Union Library Merit Unit – Memorandum of Understanding Changes
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the Service Employees’ International
Union (SEIU) Local 521 Library Merit Unit for a term through June 21, 2026.
CEQA: This Tentative Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which
does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical
impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
17.
Park and Recreation Commission Appointment Subcommittee – Youth Commissioner Recommendations
Appoint Thomas Jacob Jelniker and Serene Audrey Li to the Park and Recreation Commission as Youth
Commissioners for a term through November 6, 2024, and place Jaslene Mia Rodriguez and Charlotte Graham on
an eligibility list for a period of one year should another Youth Commissioner vacancy on the Park and Recreation
Commission occur.
CEQA: This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
18.
Fallen Heroes Memorial at Central Park – Appropriation and Spending Plan
Adopt a Resolution to approve a budget appropriation of $228,836.81 in the 2023-24 Capital Improvement
Program budget from the San Mateo City Parks and Recreation Foundation as a result of the fundraising effort of
the Fallen Heroes Memorial Committee for the Fallen Heroes Memorial project at Central Park; and authorize the
Parks and Recreation Director to expend the funds for the site work construction contract, procure site furniture,
plaques, and other related improvements, as needed, and to pay other fees associated to the project.
CEQA: This budget appropriation is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which
does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical
impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
 
4 of 460

--- page 5 ---
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
 
PUBLIC HEARING
City Council action on the following public hearing(s) represents a final decision concluding all administrative proceedings. Judicial
review may be had only if a petition is filed with the Court not later than the 90th day following the date the decision is made.
Judicial review of environmental determinations may be subject to a time period for litigation as short as 30 days following the date
the decision is made.
 
19.
Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement Extension Request – Ordinance Introduction
Introduce an Ordinance to approve a three-year extension of the Bay Meadows Phase II Development
Agreement.
CEQA: The City Council certified the Final Environmental Impact report (EIR) for the San Mateo Rail Transit-
Oriented Development Corridor Plan and the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment, in compliance with
the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) on April 18, 2005. The City Council then approved the Bay
Meadows Specific Plan Amendment, re-certified the Final EIR for that project, and adopted the findings and
statement of overriding considerations on November 7, 2005. Because there are no substantial changes to the
project and no new information has become available since the time of the EIR, no further CEQA analysis is
required at this time (CEQA Statute and Guidelines Section 21166).
OLD BUSINESS
20.
Wet Weather Preparations – Update
Receive an update on the City's wet weather preparations.
CEQA: This informational update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
21.
Campaign Finance – Voluntary Expenditure Limit – Ordinance Introduction
Introduce an Ordinance adding Section 2.80.055 “Voluntary Expenditure Limit” to San Mateo Municipal Code
Chapter 2.80 “Contributions and Loans to City Candidate Campaigns,” amending various sections related to recall
elections and aggregation of contributions, and adding a provision requiring the filing of campaign mass mailings
if directed by the City Council; and provide direction to staff regarding candidate filing costs.
CEQA: This ordinance introduction is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NEW BUSINESS
22.
Building Security Code – Ordinance Introduction
Introduce an Ordinance adding Section 23.54.025 “Secured Building Access for Emergency Personnel” and
Section 23.54.035 “Video Surveillance Systems” to Chapter 23.54 “Building Security Code.”
5 of 460

--- page 6 ---
CEQA: In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, section 15061(b)(3), adoption
of this ordinance amendment is covered by the "common sense exemption" in that CEQA applies only to projects
which have the potential to cause a significant effect on the environment. Here, it can be seen with certainty that
the ordinance amendment will not have a significant effect on the environment per Guidelines Section 15061(b)
(3).
23.
City Council Priority List – Progress Report
Review the progress report status updates of the City Council Priority List for fiscal year 2023-24.
CEQA: This progress report review is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
6 of 460

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 23-8179
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
November 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the special and regular meetings of October 16, 2023. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this administrative action. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes 2023-10-16 Special
Att 2 - Minutes 2023-10-16 Regular
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, Deputy City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
7 of 460

--- page 8 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 10/16/2023
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Amourence Lee, Mayor
Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Adam Loraine
Rob Newsom Jr. 
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
October 16, 2023
City Hall Council Chambers 5:00 PM
Special Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER 
Roll Call
Present:
Mayor Lee, Deputy Mayor Diaz Nash, Council Members: Hedges, Loraine and Newsom
CLOSED SESSION
Following the opportunity for public comment, there were no speakers, the City Council convened into Closed Session to 
consider:
1.
Conference with Labor Negotiators (Government Code Section 54957.6)
City designated representatives: Stacey Cue, Teresa Abrahamsohn, Karen Huang, and Yumi Maeda
Employee Organizations: San Mateo Safety Management Association and Service Employees International Union 
(SEIU) Local 521 Library Merit
The City Council reconvened into open session at 5:50 p.m.
STUDY SESSION
2.
Charter Amendments - Study Session
Prasanna Rasiah, City Attorney, provided a presentation on proposed City Charter amendments addressing how 
the Mayor is chosen, filling Council vacancies, district elections, and other revisions. The Council asked questions of 
staff. Public Comment – Seema Patel asked for clarification of some language. The City Council by consensus 
directed to pursue staff’s recommendation.
Following item #2, the meeting adjourned at 7:07 p.m. to convene the Regular Meeting. This special meeting 
reconvened at 11:42 p.m. to consider Study Session Item #3.
3.
Hate Speech and Remote Public Comment during Public Meetings
Prasanna Rasiah, City Attorney discussed the recent occurrence of hate speech through remote public comment 
during the October 2, 2023 City Council meeting and requested Council direction on any potential remote public 
comment procedural changes. Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment: Seema Patel spoke in support of 
maintaining public comment. The City Council by consensus directed to keep remote public comments as currently 
designed.
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned at 12:00 a.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
Amourence Lee, Mayor                      
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
8 of 460

--- page 9 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 10/16/2023
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Amourence Lee, Mayor
Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Adam Loraine
Rob Newsom Jr.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
City Council Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
October 16, 2023
City Hall Council Chambers 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER at 7:15 p.m.
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
Present:
Mayor Lee, Deputy Mayor Diaz Nash, Council Members: Hedges, Loraine and Newsom
CEREMONIAL
1.
Chris Eckert – Title Sponsor Music in the Park – Proclamation - Chris Eckert received the proclamation
2.
Domestic Violence Awareness Month – Proclamation - Karen Ferguson, CORA, received the proclamation
3.
Fire Prevention Week – Proclamation - Kent Thrasher, Fire Chief, received the proclamation
CONSENT CALENDAR
The following items, 4 through 11, were considered to be routine by the City Council. After the titles of the items were read 
by the Deputy City Clerk, the public was invited to comment and there were no speakers. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Loraine, Seconded: Newsom
Ayes: 
Lee, Diaz Nash, Hedges, Loraine, and Newsom
Noes: 
None
4.
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the special and regular meetings of September 18, 2023 and October 2, 2023.
5.
Park and Recreation Commission - Eligibility List Appointments
Fill two vacancies on the Park and Recreation Commission with appointments from the established eligibility list as 
follows: Regina Trapp to a partial term ending June 10, 2027 and Peter Wicher to a partial term ending June 10, 
2026.
6.
City Manager’s Office and Community Development Department – Classification and Job Specification Updates
Adopt a Resolution to approve the 1) revisions to the job specifications for the classifications of Assistant City 
Manager, Senior Code Enforcement, Senior Planner and Plan Check Supervisor; 2) movement of the vacant 
Communications and Public Relations Analyst position in Public Works Department to the City Manager’s Office; 
and 3) reallocation of the vacant Development Review Technician I-II to a Senior Development Review Technician.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 108 (2023)
9 of 460

--- page 10 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 10/16/2023
Page 2
7.
Benefits Broker Services – Agreement
Approve an agreement with Keenan and Associates for benefits broker services for a term beginning November 1, 
2023 through October 31, 2028, in the cumulative amount of $160,000, and authorize Human Resources Director to 
execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
8.
Main Library Interior Painting Phase 1 – Contract
Adopt a Resolution approving an alternative purchasing procedure to award a construction contract to Angeles 
Contractor, Inc. to paint the Main Library in the amount of $435,648.48; establish a contingency reserve in the 
amount of $14,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form 
presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 109 (2023)
9.
Beresford Tennis Court Resurfacing – Appropriation and Construction Contract
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $180,000 from the Capital Project Fund reserve to fund the Beresford Tennis 
Court Resurfacing project; approve an alternative purchasing procedure to award a construction contract to 
Angeles Contractor, Inc. in the amount of $160,193.67; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $16,000 
for a total amount not to exceed $176,193.67; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in 
substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 110 (2023)
10.
Clean Water Program – Program Management Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 9 to the agreement with CH2M Hill Engineers, Inc. to authorize scope and funding for the 
tenth year of program management services for the Clean Water Program; authorize payment in an amount not to 
exceed $7,447,151; establish a contingency amount of $1,487,000; amend the term to extend through June 30, 
2026; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute this amendment and task amendments within the 
contingency amount in substantially the form presented.
11.
Utility Truck Purchases – Purchase Contracts
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure to award two (2) contracts to Mission Valley 
Ford Truck Sales, Inc. for the purchase of two (2) new 2023 Ford F350 utility trucks in a total amount not to exceed 
$158,999.19; to award a contract to Salinas Valley Ford Truck Sales, Inc. for the purchase of two (2) new 2023 Ford 
F350 utility trucks in a total amount not to exceed $155,781.69; establish a contingency reserve of $15,000.00 for 
each supplier; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the purchase contract in substantially the form 
presented and issue change orders within the contingency amounts.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 111 (2023)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Elizabeth Stone spoke to the Israel war and threats to Jewish people. Jen Kilroy spoke on the need to fix Prop 19 and bring 
back protections that were lost in 2020. Irena Mavridis spoke to small cell proliferation. Wayne Swinyer stated need to 
stop the cell towers and suggested to put them on the high voltage lines out in the bay and not in neighborhoods.
PUBLIC HEARING
12.
Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee Public Hearing and Potential Mail Balloting
Jimmy Vo, Public Works Senior Engineer, and Chris Coulter, SCI Consulting Group, provided a presentation on the 
steps taken to date and need for funding for flood and storm protection. Council asked questions of staff. 
10 of 460

--- page 11 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 10/16/2023
Page 3
The Mayor opened the Public Hearing.
Public Comment – Amy Jussell noted that the entire community should be all in this together. Maria Godfrey 
strongly supports community flood protection initiative. Nicki Harte spoke of the multitude of problems following 
storms. Jeff Lamonte indicated he has seen firsthand the effects of lack of attention to storm water infrastructure. 
Alex Cwirko-Godicki commented on the importance of passing this initiative noting several spots in the Village 
were significantly impacted noting this is not just lagoon issue, not just east of San Mateo issue. Jordan Grimes 
spoke in favor of the initiative, invest now to secure the future. 
The Mayor closed the Public Hearing. The Deputy City Clerk read the following statement: 
“We have tallied all of the written protests to the proposed Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee and there 
were approximately 28,994 notices mailed to Property Owners on the tax roll and a majority would require one 
more than half that number 14,498. The number of valid protests received is 54. Based on that, it is clear that a 
majority of owners have not protested the fee and the Council is free to take action on this item.”
Motion to Adopt a Resolution directing Staff to conduct a ballot proceeding for the proposed Community Flood 
and Storm Protection Fee, a property-related fee conforming to Article XIII D, Section 6 of the California 
Constitution. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Hedges, Seconded: Newsom
Ayes: 
Lee, Diaz Nash, Hedges, Loraine, and Newsom
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Resolution No. 112 (2023)
Council recessed from 9:23 p.m. to 9:37 p.m.
OLD BUSINESS
13.
Draft General Plan 2040 – Circulation; Public Services and Facilities; and Safety Elements
Zach Dahl, Acting Community Development Director, and Joanna Jansen, Placeworks, provided an informational 
overview of the Draft General Plan 2040. Council asked questions of staff.
Public Comment – Ken Abu stated the importance of reducing traffic through public transportation and safe 
alternatives for bikes and pedestrians. David Light discouraged reclassifying Fifth and Ninth Avenues to arterials. 
Laurie Watanuki stated concern with reclassifying streets to arterials and requested a trial with speed humps. 
Laura Wood appreciated the amount of public outreach but would like more future neighborhood development 
included in the plan and not just along transit corridors. Erica Powell expressed concern with arterial streets as it 
would reduce the ability for traffic calming in affected neighborhoods. Christine Padilla, Build Up San Mateo 
County Director, expressed concern regarding the need for more child care facilities.
Council discussion ensued and expressed appreciation for staff’s efforts.
Council recessed from 9:23 p.m. to 9:37 p.m.
14.
Citywide Complete Streets Plan – Update
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner, and Susie Hufstader, Senior Transportation Planner with 
Fehr & Peers Consulting Firm, provided an update on the San Mateo Citywide Complete Streets Plan. Council 
asked questions of staff.
11 of 460

--- page 12 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 10/16/2023
Page 4
Public Comment – there were no speakers.
Council provided direction and feedback to staff.
NEW BUSINESS
15.
City Manager, City Attorney, Department Head and Deputy Director Compensation Plan – Amendment
City Manager Alex Khojikian provided a presentation on the recommended final action on changes to the salary for 
the Assistant City Manager classification effective October 29th, 2023, with the recommended action to be 
increased by 13%. Council asked questions of staff.
Public Comment – there were no speakers.
Motion to Adopt a Resolution to amend the Compensation Plan to include salary increases for the Assistant City 
Manager, effective October 29, 2023. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Hedges, Seconded: Loraine
Ayes: 
Lee, Diaz Nash, Hedges, Loraine, and Newsom
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Resolution No. 113 (2023)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members reported on their various assignments and liaison roles. Council 
members commented on community concerns. Council expressed sentiments on the recent events in the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict. 
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned in honor of the victims of the Israel war, with the Mayor reading the “Candle 
for Peace” poem, at 11:41 p.m. to go back to the special meeting at 11:42 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
Amourence Lee, Mayor                     
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
12 of 460

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 26-4662
File ID: 23-7985
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 6, 2023 
SUBJECT:
On-Call Public Works Plan Review Services – Agreements
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve individual on-call professional plan review service agreements through June 30, 2025, with up to two optional 
one-year extensions, with: CSG Consultants, Inc. in an amount not to exceed $400,000; Ghirardelli Associates, Inc. in an 
amount not to exceed $400,000; and West Coast Code Consultants, Inc. in an amount not to exceed $400,000; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreements in substantially the form presented and execute any future 
term extensions or amendments that do not change the not to exceed amount of the agreements. 
BACKGROUND:
The Public Works Department (“PW”) provides plan review services within the Transportation Engineering Division during 
the Planning Entitlement, Building Permit, Encroachment Permit, and Mapping review processes. Currently, these services 
are provided by staff, with the exception of mapping services currently provided by a consultant surveyor. The City is 
required to abide by State-required deadlines for these review processes; failure to meet these deadlines may result in the 
invocation of the Permit Streamlining Act for Planning Entitlements or certain building permits being deemed approved, 
such as Accessory Dwelling Units.
Due to the high volume of complex development the City is currently experiencing and limited staff availability, these plan 
review services are difficult to provide in a timely manner that meets the required deadlines. To meet the required review 
turnaround times, PW proposes transitioning to consultant reviewers as a staff supplement and thereby increase the 
Division’s capacity in providing these services. 
PW issued a request for qualifications (“RFQ”) in August 2023 to solicit multiple firms capable of providing plan review 
services on an on-call basis. The RFQ identified two (2) tasks where PW was seeking plan review support services and 
allowed interested firms to submit statements of qualifications for any or both of those identified areas. The two areas 
identified were: Plan Review services including Mapping review, and Administrative Support services. 
In total, PW staff received responses from five (5) firms and evaluated those submissions based on the firms’ experience in 
public agency plan review, the proposed consultants’ staff qualifications, and the pricing structure. Ultimately, PW staff 
utilized those criteria and follow-up interviews identifying three firms for Council to consider awarding agreements for on-
call professional plan review services. The firms selected by PW staff are: 
•
CSG Consultants, Inc. 
•
Ghirardelli Associates, Inc. 
•
West Coast Code Consultants, Inc. 
13 of 460

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
These firms will each enter into separate agreements with the City for approximately two-year terms ending on June 30, 
2025, with up to two optional one-year extensions pending a performance review by staff. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Historical costs associated with these services as provided by staff amounted to approximately $350,000 per fiscal year. 
The support services provided by these consultant firms will be charged to planning application trust accounts as services 
are incurred. The trust accounts are funded by the project developer receiving these services. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The approval of these professional services agreements is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement with CSG Consultants
Att 2 – Agreement with Ghirardelli Associates
Att 3 – Agreement with West Coast Code Consultants
STAFF CONTACT
Jason Hallare, Senior Engineer
jhallare@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7316
14 of 460

--- page 15 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
AGREEMENT WITH CSG CONSULTANTS, INC. 
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR  
ON-CALL PUBLIC WORKS REVIEW SUPPORT SERVICES 
 
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and CSG Consultants, Inc., a corporation, (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 550 Pilgrim 
Drive, Foster City, CA 94404. 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
 
A.  CITY desires certain development plan review services hereinafter described. 
 
 
B.  CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these development plan review 
services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT 
has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT. 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
15 of 460

--- page 16 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work. 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence upon execution of the 
Agreement and be completed on June 30, 2025, with up to two (2) optional one-year extensions by the 
CITY. 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT in an amount not to 
exceed $400,000.00, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and 
incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
16 of 460

--- page 17 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
Indemnity for Design Professional Services. CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all 
claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s negligence, recklessness or 
willful misconduct in the performance of its design professional services under this Agreement. To the 
maximum extent permitted by law and Civil Code section 2782.8, CONSULTANT agrees to defend CITY, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.  
 
 
Indemnity for Activities Other Than Design Professional Services. CONSULTANT agrees to hold 
harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and 
against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s 
performance of non-design professional services under this Agreement, except for those claims arising 
out of CITY’s sole negligence or willful misconduct.  CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.  
 
 
The CONSULTANT’S duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
17 of 460

--- page 18 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
18 of 460

--- page 19 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Jason Hallare, Senior Engineer 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
CSG Consultants, Inc. 
Attn:  Hatem Ahmed 
550 Pilgrim Drive 
Foster City, CA 94404 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
19 of 460

--- page 20 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
 
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party. 
 
 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
20 of 460

--- page 21 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and CSG CONSULTANTS, INC. have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Brad Underwood 
Interim Director of Public Works 
 
Date 
 
Cyrus Kianpour 
President 
 
Date 
 
 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 
2) Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below. 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
Nourdin Khayata 
Secretary 
 
Date 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Fee Rates 
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
21 of 460

--- page 22 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT A 
 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
22 of 460

--- page 23 ---
 
Category #1 – Plan Review Services 
o Planning:  
 
Perform complete plan review of entitlement packages which may include traffic, utility, and 
geotechnical studies and conceptual site plans, grading and drainage plans, utility plans, 
stormwater treatment, traffic signals, photometrics, and turning simulations as well as 
tentative maps, easements, dedications, and vacations. 
 
Draft comment letters for incomplete or unclear plans and proposed plans that do not 
conform to City Municipal Code or City Standards. 
 
Draft conditions of approval based on the entitlement packages and applicable mitigation 
measures. 
o Building & Encroachments:  
 
Perform complete plan reviews for building permits and encroachment permits (which are 
typically reviewed together in the City) for conformance to conditions of approval, City 
Municipal Code, and City Engineering Standards. Such reviews may include hardscape, 
grading, drainage, utilities, stormwater treatment, stormwater pollution prevention, traffic, 
parking, bike & pedestrian facilities, accessibility, haul routes, and construction best 
management practices. 
 
Review of final or updated versions of traffic, utility, or geotechnical studies as they pertain 
to the scopes related to Public Works review. 
 
Drafting comment letters based on plan reviews. 
 
Review of applicants’ Engineer’s Estimates. 
 
Impact fee calculations for the City’s Wastewater Capacity Charge and Transportation Impact 
Fee. 
o Survey & Mapping: 
 
Perform technical survey review for material requiring a licensed surveyor including but not 
limited to Final Maps, Parcel Maps, Easement grants, and Certificate of lot conformance.  
 
Draft comment letters based on survey review. 
 
Sign maps as the City’s technical reviewer for material reviewed. 
o Attend Design Review Board meetings as necessary to provide technical advice to staff or seek 
clarification on standards and policies from staff. 
 
Category #2 – Administrative Services 
o Provide permit technician review of minor encroachment or building permit reviews. 
o Administer the Small Cell program 
 
Coordinate wireless permit reviews between applicant and reviewer. 
 
Monitor wireless permit shotclocks and status 
23 of 460

--- page 24 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT B 
 
FEE RATES 
 
 
24 of 460

--- page 25 ---
CSG PROPOSAL TO THE CITY OF SAN MATEO 
LAND DEVELOPMENT SERVICES FOR FY 2023-2025 
19 
Fee Schedule 
CSG Consultants’ services are billed on a time-and-materials basis according to our Standard Rates, shown 
below. 
PROFESSIONAL ENGINEERING SERVICES 
HOURLY RATE 
Engineering Trainee 
$80 
Administrative Assistant 
$90 
Analyst 
$150 
Engineering Designer/CASp Inspection & Consultation 
$160 
Construction Inspector 
$175 
Senior Analyst 
$175 
Assistant Resident Engineer 
$190 
Assistant Engineer 
$165 
Associate Engineer 
$195 
Senior Construction Inspector 
$195 
Senior Engineer 
$220 
Senior Land Surveyor 
$220 
Resident Engineer 
$240 
Structure Representative 
$240 
Senior Structural Engineer 
$245 
Senior Project Manager 
$245 
Principal Engineer 
$260 
Senior Principal Engineer 
$280 
Two-Person Survey Crew 
$365 
SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM MANAGEMENT SERVICES 
HOURLY RATE 
Sustainability Program Analyst 
$150 
Sustainability Program Senior Analyst 
$180 
Sustainability Program Manager 
$210 
All hourly rates include overhead costs including, but not limited to, salaries, benefits, workers’ compensation 
insurance, travel and office expenses. CSG will coordinate the pickup and return of plans between CSG and agency 
offices. Overtime services and services provided outside of normal business hours will be billed at 1.5x the applicable 
hourly rate. On July 1 of each year following the contract start year, CSG will initiate a rate increase based on change 
in CPI for the applicable region. CSG will mail/email an invoice every month for services rendered during the previous 
month. 
F 
S E C T I O N  
25 of 460

--- page 26 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no 
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.  
 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate 
 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
26 of 460

--- page 27 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
27 of 460

--- page 28 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
AGREEMENT WITH GHIRARDELLI ASSOCIATES, INC. 
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR  
ON-CALL PUBLIC WORKS REVIEW SUPPORT SERVICES 
 
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and Ghirardelli Associates, Inc., a corporation, (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 2055 
Gateway Place, Suite 470, San Jose, CA 95110. 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
 
A.  CITY desires certain development plan review services hereinafter described. 
 
 
B.  CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these development plan review 
services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT 
has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT. 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
28 of 460

--- page 29 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work. 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence upon execution of the 
Agreement and be completed on June 30, 2025, with up to two (2) optional one-year extensions by the 
CITY. 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT in an amount not to 
exceed $400,000.00, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and 
incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
29 of 460

--- page 30 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
Indemnity for Design Professional Services. CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all 
claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s negligence, recklessness or 
willful misconduct in the performance of its design professional services under this Agreement. To the 
maximum extent permitted by law and Civil Code section 2782.8, CONSULTANT agrees to defend CITY, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.  
 
 
Indemnity for Activities Other Than Design Professional Services. CONSULTANT agrees to hold 
harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and 
against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s 
performance of non-design professional services under this Agreement, except for those claims arising 
out of CITY’s sole negligence or willful misconduct.  CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.  
 
 
The CONSULTANT’S duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
30 of 460

--- page 31 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
31 of 460

--- page 32 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Jason Hallare, Senior Engineer 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
Ghirardelli Associates, Inc. 
Attn:  Stephen Tovmassian 
2055 Gateway Place, Suite 470 
San Jose, CA 95110 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
32 of 460

--- page 33 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
 
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party. 
 
 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
33 of 460

--- page 34 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and GHIRARDELLI ASSOCIATES, INC. have executed 
this Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Brad Underwood 
Interim Director of Public Works 
 
Date 
 
Randall Bruner 
President / CEO 
 
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Fee Rates 
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
34 of 460

--- page 35 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT A 
 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
35 of 460

--- page 36 ---
 
Category #1 – Plan Review Services 
o Planning:  
 
Perform complete plan review of entitlement packages which may include traffic, utility, and 
geotechnical studies and conceptual site plans, grading and drainage plans, utility plans, 
stormwater treatment, traffic signals, photometrics, and turning simulations as well as 
tentative maps, easements, dedications, and vacations. 
 
Draft comment letters for incomplete or unclear plans and proposed plans that do not 
conform to City Municipal Code or City Standards. 
 
Draft conditions of approval based on the entitlement packages and applicable mitigation 
measures. 
o Building & Encroachments:  
 
Perform complete plan reviews for building permits and encroachment permits (which are 
typically reviewed together in the City) for conformance to conditions of approval, City 
Municipal Code, and City Engineering Standards. Such reviews may include hardscape, 
grading, drainage, utilities, stormwater treatment, stormwater pollution prevention, traffic, 
parking, bike & pedestrian facilities, accessibility, haul routes, and construction best 
management practices. 
 
Review of final or updated versions of traffic, utility, or geotechnical studies as they pertain 
to the scopes related to Public Works review. 
 
Drafting comment letters based on plan reviews. 
 
Review of applicants’ Engineer’s Estimates. 
 
Impact fee calculations for the City’s Wastewater Capacity Charge and Transportation Impact 
Fee. 
o Survey & Mapping: 
 
Perform technical survey review for material requiring a licensed surveyor including but not 
limited to Final Maps, Parcel Maps, Easement grants, and Certificate of lot conformance.  
 
Draft comment letters based on survey review. 
 
Sign maps as the City’s technical reviewer for material reviewed. 
o Attend Design Review Board meetings as necessary to provide technical advice to staff or seek 
clarification on standards and policies from staff. 
 
Category #2 – Administrative Services 
o Provide permit technician review of minor encroachment or building permit reviews. 
o Administer the Small Cell program 
 
Coordinate wireless permit reviews between applicant and reviewer. 
 
Monitor wireless permit shotclocks and status 
36 of 460

--- page 37 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT B 
 
FEE RATES 
 
 
37 of 460

--- page 38 ---
Land Development Services for Fiscal Years 2023-2025 | 20 
Fee Schedule 
2023 Municipal Engineering Services Hourly Rates 
 
 
Classification 
2023 Hourly Rate 
Senior Principal Engineer 
 
 
$280 
Principal Engineer 
 
$260 
Senior Project Manager 
 
$245 
Project Manager 
 
$220 
Senior Engineer 
 
$220 
Associate Engineer 
 
$195 
Assistant Engineer 
 
$165 
Senior Management Analyst 
 
$175 
Management Analyst 
 
$150 
Administrative Assistance 
 
$90 
Engineering Trainee 
 
$80 
Construction Inspector 
 
$172 - $225 
Office Engineer 
 
$113 - $175 
 
1) Services are billed on a time-and-materials basis. All hourly rates include overhead costs. Overtime services provided 
outside of normal business hours will be billed at 1.5x the applicable rate. 
2) Any extensive reproduction or delivery service charges shall be billed at actual. 
3) Construction inspection activities are subject to prevailing wage requirements. 
4) Per prevailing wage requirements, a shift differential is for any covered work shift beginning after 2pm 
5) Rates valid until 12/31/2023. Annual rate escalation is 5%. 
 
SECTION F 
38 of 460

--- page 39 ---
Land Development Services for Fiscal Years 2023-2025 | 21 
Section F: Fee Schedule 
39 of 460

--- page 40 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no 
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.  
 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate 
 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
40 of 460

--- page 41 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
41 of 460

--- page 42 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
AGREEMENT WITH WEST COAST CODE CONSULTANTS, INC. 
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR  
ON-CALL PUBLIC WORKS REVIEW SUPPORT SERVICES 
 
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and West Coast Code Consultants, Inc., a corporation, (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 
5000 Executive Parkway, Suite 510, San Ramon, CA 94583. 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
 
A.  CITY desires certain development plan review services hereinafter described. 
 
 
B.  CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these development plan review 
services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT 
has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT. 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
42 of 460

--- page 43 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work. 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence upon execution of the 
Agreement and be completed on June 30, 2025, with up to two (2) optional one-year extensions by the 
CITY. 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT in an amount not to 
exceed $400,000.00, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and 
incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
43 of 460

--- page 44 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
Indemnity for Design Professional Services. CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all 
claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s negligence, recklessness or 
willful misconduct in the performance of its design professional services under this Agreement. To the 
maximum extent permitted by law and Civil Code section 2782.8, CONSULTANT agrees to defend CITY, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.  
 
 
Indemnity for Activities Other Than Design Professional Services. CONSULTANT agrees to hold 
harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and 
against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s 
performance of non-design professional services under this Agreement, except for those claims arising 
out of CITY’s sole negligence or willful misconduct.  CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.  
 
 
The CONSULTANT’S duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
44 of 460

--- page 45 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
45 of 460

--- page 46 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Jason Hallare, Senior Engineer 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
West Coast Code Consultants, Inc. 
Attn:  Maurice Kaufman 
5000 Executive Parkway, Suite 510 
San Ramon, CA 94583 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
46 of 460

--- page 47 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
 
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party. 
 
 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
47 of 460

--- page 48 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and WEST COAST CODE CONSULTANTS, INC. have 
executed this Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Brad Underwood 
Interim Director of Public Works 
 
Date 
 
Giyan Senaratne 
President / CEO 
 
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Fee Rates 
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
48 of 460

--- page 49 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT A 
 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
49 of 460

--- page 50 ---
 
Category #1 – Plan Review Services 
o Planning:  
 
Perform complete plan review of entitlement packages which may include traffic, utility, and 
geotechnical studies and conceptual site plans, grading and drainage plans, utility plans, 
stormwater treatment, traffic signals, photometrics, and turning simulations as well as 
tentative maps, easements, dedications, and vacations. 
 
Draft comment letters for incomplete or unclear plans and proposed plans that do not 
conform to City Municipal Code or City Standards. 
 
Draft conditions of approval based on the entitlement packages and applicable mitigation 
measures. 
o Building & Encroachments:  
 
Perform complete plan reviews for building permits and encroachment permits (which are 
typically reviewed together in the City) for conformance to conditions of approval, City 
Municipal Code, and City Engineering Standards. Such reviews may include hardscape, 
grading, drainage, utilities, stormwater treatment, stormwater pollution prevention, traffic, 
parking, bike & pedestrian facilities, accessibility, haul routes, and construction best 
management practices. 
 
Review of final or updated versions of traffic, utility, or geotechnical studies as they pertain 
to the scopes related to Public Works review. 
 
Drafting comment letters based on plan reviews. 
 
Review of applicants’ Engineer’s Estimates. 
 
Impact fee calculations for the City’s Wastewater Capacity Charge and Transportation Impact 
Fee. 
o Survey & Mapping: 
 
Perform technical survey review for material requiring a licensed surveyor including but not 
limited to Final Maps, Parcel Maps, Easement grants, and Certificate of lot conformance.  
 
Draft comment letters based on survey review. 
 
Sign maps as the City’s technical reviewer for material reviewed. 
o Attend Design Review Board meetings as necessary to provide technical advice to staff or seek 
clarification on standards and policies from staff. 
 
Category #2 – Administrative Services 
o Provide permit technician review of minor encroachment or building permit reviews. 
o Administer the Small Cell program 
 
Coordinate wireless permit reviews between applicant and reviewer. 
 
Monitor wireless permit shotclocks and status 
50 of 460

--- page 51 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT B 
 
FEE RATES 
 
 
51 of 460

--- page 52 ---
Teaming with Your Community to Make a Difference    |    www.WC-3.com
11
Fee Schedule 
Fiscal Year 2023 / 2024
PROPOSED SCHEDULE OF FEES - LAND DEVELOPMENT SERVICES
HOURLY RATES*
Principal
$247.00 / Hour
CASp Plans Examiner
$237.00 / Hour
Project Manager
$216.00 / Hour
Land Surveyor
$206.00 / Hour
Traffic Engineer
$206.00 / Hour
Structural Engineer
$206.00 / Hour
Senior Civil Engineer
$206.00 / Hour
Associate Civil Engineer
$180.00 / Hour
Assistant Engineer and Plan Reviewer
$155.00 / Hour
Public Works Inspector (Prevailing Wage - Daytime Hours)**
$187.00 / Hour
Public Works Inspector (Prevailing Wage - Evening Hours)**
$201.00 / Hour
Administrative Assistant / Permit Technician
  $90.00 / Hour
Courier / Delivery Expenses
Included
Reimbursable Expenses
At Cost + 10%
Mileage Expenses
Staff Hourly Rate + IRS Standard Rate
Annual Hourly Rate Adjustment - WC3’s proposed hourly rates are applicable through June 30, 2024.  Hourly rates are subject to an annual 
increase based on a minimum 3% cost-of-living, the Engineering News Record’s (ENR) Construction Cost Index (CCI), or the Consumer Price 
Index - Urban (CPI-U); whichever is greater. 
Electronic Plan Review - Electronic plan review services will be performed for plan review services facilitated off-site at WC3 office locations. 
WC3 will automatically coordinate all processes. 
Prevailing Wage Assignments - Prevailing wage assignment rate submitted to the jurisdiction is based on the latest State of 
California’s Department of Industrial Relations (DIR) rate determination. This rate may vary per any new DIR rate determination.
Inspection Services - If, or when services are necessary, a four (4) hour minimum is required for all requested Public Works Inspections. 
Overtime - Inspection services in excess of forty (40) hours a week (overtime, holiday, weekend work, etc.) will be invoiced as follows:
•	 Overtime – One hundred fifty percent (150%) of regular rates. Overtime is defined as working more than forty (40) hours a 
week, more than eight (8) hours a day or more than six (6) consecutive days in a week
•	 Double Overtime – Two hundred percent (200%) of regular rates. Double overtime is defined as working more than twelve (12) 
hours a day or working more than eight (8) hours on the seventh consecutive day of work.
•	 Holidays and Weekends – Two hundred percent (200%) of regular rates.  
Reimbursable Expenses - Reimbursable expenses (i.e., specialized equipment rental or printing costs) will be authorized prior to charge 
and billed at actual cost + 10% mark up.
Courier / Delivery Expenses - Should the need arise, WC3 will use our established shipping service to pick up documents for courier/delivery 
to and from our WC3 office(s) at no additional cost.
Mileage Expenses - When applicable, reimbursements for mileage are for the use of personal automobiles within the City’s limits, typically 
Inspectors. Reimbursements for mileage are applicable to the staff hourly rate plus the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) standard mileage rate. 
Invoicing Procedures - At the beginning of each month, WC3 will furnish the City an invoice and a statement of work performed for 
compensation during the preceding month.
*
**
52 of 460

--- page 53 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no 
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.  
 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate 
 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
53 of 460

--- page 54 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
54 of 460

--- page 55 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 20-5150
File ID: 23-8087
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
November 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Office of Traffic Safety – Appropriation and Grant Spending Plan 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve a grant spending plan and appropriate funds for the Office of Traffic Safety Selective Traffic 
Enforcement Program grant totaling $210,000 and authorize the Chief of Police to accept and execute the agreement and 
expend the funds.
BACKGROUND:
For several years, the federal and state governments, through the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and the 
California Office of Traffic Safety, have awarded yearly grants to the San Mateo Police Department. The grants come with 
very specific spending criteria and require a resolution to approve the spending plans and appropriate the funds. 
The success of this program hinges on high-profile enforcement and public awareness. The grant funds will enable the 
Police Department to conduct DUI checkpoints, DUI saturation patrols, targeted speed enforcement, red light 
enforcement, distracted driver enforcement, and other specialized enforcement programs. The funds will assist the Police 
Department in focusing its efforts on the primary collision factors (PCF’s) that lead to collisions. 
The strategies used by the City of San Mateo will involve the “Three E’s” of traffic safety – Education, Enforcement, and 
Engineering, to further our City’s efforts towards reducing injury accidents. Specifically, for the Education component, 
SMPD traffic officers will conduct safety talks for seniors, as well as school age children regarding pedestrian and bicycle 
safety. For the Enforcement component, SMPD traffic officers will continue targeted enforcement at problem locations 
where injury collisions, especially auto-pedestrian collisions, have occurred in the past. For the Engineering component, 
SMPD will continue collaboration with the Public Works Department regarding engineering and design responses to 
problem locations. This involves meetings with Public Works personnel twice a month for study and implementation of 
new strategies to improve pedestrian safety. 
The Office of Traffic Safety funds will primarily be used to staff overtime details for traffic enforcement and distracted 
driving enforcement with the objective of decreasing injury collisions and the threat of auto-pedestrian collisions. Other 
uses of the funds will include addressing DUI drivers through the staffing of DUI checkpoints and DUI saturation details, as 
well as the purchase of equipment including a DUI trailer and related supplies. 
SMPD will also continue its collaboration with county-wide Selective Traffic Enforcement Program (STEP) programs 
whereby officers work with other San Mateo County law enforcement agencies as part of a traffic enforcement strike team 
that focuses on two cities at a time conducting high-profile enforcement at high-collision locations. SMPD officers will 
continue proactive traffic enforcement during National Distracted Driving Awareness Month in April, the Click it or Ticket 
Campaign in May, and the AVOID (DUI Enforcement) operations throughout the year. 
55 of 460

--- page 56 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Finally, to comply with grant requirements, SMPD will issue press releases, including using NIXLE, Nextdoor, Twitter, 
Instagram, and Facebook over the grant term calling attention to the innovative program strategies and outcomes in 
furtherance of the grant and to enhance overall traffic safety. These will include a press release announcing the grant 
award and other press releases that call attention to proactive enforcement efforts against DUIs, basic traffic and 
motorcycle safety, and strategies to combat future auto-pedestrian collisions.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Office of Traffic Safety Selective Traffic Enforcement Program (STEP) grant requires no matching funds and covers all 
contract and equipment expenditures. There is no impact to the General Fund and once appropriated, $210,000 in funds 
will be added to the Police Grant (Fund 200) budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Grant Agreement 
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
Craig Collom, Traffic Sergeant
ccollom@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7742
56 of 460

--- page 57 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023)
APPROPRIATING FUNDS AND AUTHORIZING THE CHIEF OF POLICE TO EXECUTE THE GRANT AGREEMENT TO 
EXPEND THE OFFICE OF TRAFFIC SAFETY SELECTIVE TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM GRANT FUNDS 
TOTALING $210,000
WHEREAS, the Office of Traffic Safety (OTS) has awarded the City a grant totaling $210,000 through its 
Selective Traffic Enforcement Program (STEP) for local law enforcement traffic control/safety purposes; and
WHEREAS, OTS requires that recipient cities adopt resolutions to appropriate funds, which would be 
reimbursed through the grant, and authorize the expenditure of STEP grant monies.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not 
cause a physical change in the environment (Public Resources Code Section 21065)
2.
The appropriation of $210,000 in Selective Traffic Enforcement Program grant funds to the police 
grant fund budget is approved. 
3.
The grant spending plan is approved, and the Chief of Police is authorized to accept and execute the 
Office of Traffic Safety Selective Traffic Enforcement Program grant agreement and to expend the 
Office of Traffic Safety Selective Traffic Enforcement Program grant funds for traffic control/safety 
purposes.
57 of 460

--- page 58 ---
9/21/2023 7:28:47 PM 
 
 
Page 1 of 17 
 
State of California – Office of Traffic Safety 
GRANT AGREEMENT  
GRANT NUMBER 
PT24179 
 
 
 
1. GRANT TITLE 
Selective Traffic Enforcement Program (STEP) 
2. NAME OF AGENCY    
3. Grant Period 
San Mateo 
From: 
To: 
10/01/2023 
09/30/2024 
4. AGENCY UNIT TO ADMINISTER GRANT 
San Mateo Police Department 
5. GRANT DESCRIPTION 
Best practice strategies will be conducted to reduce the number of persons killed and injured in crashes 
involving alcohol and other primary crash factors. The funded strategies may include impaired driving 
enforcement, enforcement operations focusing on primary crash factors, distracted driving, night-time seat belt 
enforcement, special enforcement operations encouraging motorcycle safety, enforcement and public 
awareness in areas with a high number of bicycle and pedestrian crashes, and educational programs. These 
strategies are designed to earn media attention thus enhancing the overall deterrent effect. 
6. Federal Funds Allocated Under This Agreement Shall Not Exceed: 
$210,000.00 
7. TERMS AND CONDITIONS:  The parties agree to comply with the terms and conditions of the following which are by 
this reference made a part of the Agreement: 
 
Schedule A – Problem Statement, Goals and Objectives and Method of Procedure 
 
Schedule B – Detailed Budget Estimate and Sub-Budget Estimate (if applicable)  
 
Schedule B-1 – Budget Narrative and Sub-Budget Narrative (if applicable) 
 
Exhibit A – Certifications and Assurances 
 
Exhibit B* – OTS Grant Program Manual 
 
Exhibit C – Grant Electronic Management System (GEMS) Access 
*Items shown with an asterisk (*), are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of this agreement as if 
attached hereto. 
  These documents can be viewed at the OTS home web page under Grants:  www.ots.ca.gov. 
We, the officials named below, hereby swear under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that we 
are duly authorized to legally bind the Grant recipient to the above described Grant terms and conditions. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed by the parties hereto. 
8. Approval Signatures 
A. GRANT DIRECTOR 
B. AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL 
NAME: 
 
TITLE: 
 
EMAIL: 
 
PHONE: 
 
ADDRESS: 
Craig Collom 
 
Traffic Sergeant 
 
ccollom@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
(650) 522-7742 
 
200 Franklin Pkwy 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
NAME: 
 
TITLE: 
 
EMAIL: 
 
PHONE: 
 
ADDRESS: 
Ed Barberini 
 
Chief 
 
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
(650) 522-7600 
 
200 Franklin Pkwy 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
 
 
(Signature) 
 
(Date) 
 
 
(Signature) 
 
(Date) 
 
 
C. FISCAL OFFICIAL 
 
D. AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL OF OFFICE OF TRAFFIC SAFETY 
NAME: 
 
TITLE: 
 
EMAIL: 
 
PHONE: 
 
ADDRESS: 
Karen Huang 
 
Interim Finance Director 
 
khuang@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
(650) 522-7110 
 
330 W. 20th Ave. 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
NAME: 
 
TITLE: 
 
EMAIL: 
 
PHONE: 
 
ADDRESS: 
Barbara Rooney 
 
Director 
 
barbara.rooney@ots.ca.gov 
 
(916) 509-3030 
 
2208 Kausen Drive, Suite 300 
Elk Grove, CA 95758 
 
 
 
(Signature) 
 
(Date) 
 
 
(Signature) 
 
(Date) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
58 of 460

--- page 59 ---
9/21/2023 7:28:47 PM 
 
 
Page 2 of 17 
 
 
 
10. PROJECTED EXPENDITURES 
FUND 
CFDA 
ITEM/APPROPRIATION 
F.Y. 
CHAPTER 
STATUTE 
PROJECTED 
EXPENDITURES 
164AL-24.1 
20.608 
0521-0890-101 
2022 
43/22 
BA/22 
$51,000.00 
402PT-24.1 
20.600 
0521-0890-101 
2022 
43/22 
BA/22 
$20,400.00 
164AL-24 
20.608 
0521-0890-101 
2023 
12/23 
BA/23 
$99,000.00 
402PT-24 
20.600 
0521-0890-101 
2023 
12/23 
BA/23 
$39,600.00 
  
AGREEMENT 
TOTAL  
 
$210,000.00 
AMOUNT ENCUMBERED BY THIS DOCUMENT 
I CERTIFY upon my own personal knowledge that the budgeted 
funds for the current budget year are available for the period and 
purpose of the expenditure stated above. 
 
$210,000.00 
PRIOR AMOUNT ENCUMBERED FOR THIS 
AGREEMENT 
 
$ 0.00 
OTS ACCOUNTING OFFICER’S SIGNATURE 
DATE SIGNED 
TOTAL AMOUNT ENCUMBERED TO DATE 
 
 
 
$210,000.00 
 
 
 
E. ACCOUNTING OFFICER OF OFFICE OF TRAFFIC SAFETY 
9. SAM INFORMATION 
NAME:  Carolyn Vu 
 
SAM #:  
REGISTERED  
ADDRESS: 
CITY: 
ZIP+4: 
R92YFGVKF6B4 
 
330 West 20th Ave 
San Mateo 
94403-1338 
ADDRESS:  2208 Kausen Drive, Suite 300 
 
Elk Grove, CA 95758 
 
 
59 of 460

--- page 60 ---
9/21/2023 7:28:47 PM 
 
 
Page 3 of 17 
 
 
State of California – Office of Traffic Safety 
GRANT AGREEMENT  
Schedule A 
GRANT NUMBER 
PT24179 
 
1. PROBLEM STATEMENT 
The area to be served by this grant is the City of San Mateo, the second largest city in San Mateo County, 
which is located between San Francisco and San Jose on the San Francisco Peninsula. The City has a 
residential population of approximately 105,661 (US Census Estimate for July 1, 2021), and a significant 
daytime transitory population of employees and customers working at or frequenting many of the businesses 
and shopping districts in the City. Included among this is a vibrant downtown shopping area that employs 
many workers and attracts many visitors. It is surrounded by many large, multi-story, apartment and 
condominium buildings that are occupied by primarily elderly citizens. This is reflected by a 
higher percentage than the state average in persons over the age of 65 (San Mateo: 16.5%; statewide: 
14.8% - US Census ). In other parts of the City, large scale new developments are under way, attracting 
additional future residents to the City of San Mateo, which will significantly add to the City’s population in the 
coming years. 
 
In the past, San Mateo experienced an alarming increase in the number of elderly victims killed and injured 
in traffic crashes, both as drivers and pedestrians, with the highest increase being among pedestrians. In 
2014, the City of San Mateo had 54 crashes involving pedestrians with one (1) pedestrian fatality. In 2015, 
the City of San Mateo had 54 crashes involving pedestrians and no fatalities. In 2016, the City of San Mateo 
had 41 crashes involving pedestrians and no fatalities. In 2017, the City of San Mateo had 56 crashes 
involving pedestrians and two (2) fatalities. In 2018, the City of San Mateo had 66 crashes involving 
pedestrians and one (1) fatalities. In 2019, the City of San Mateo had 63 crashes involving pedestrians and 
one (1) fatality. In 2020, the City of San Mateo had 36 crashes involving pedestrians and one (1) fatality. In 
2021, the City of San Mateo had 27 crashes involving pedestrians and one (1) fatality. In 2022, the trend is 
dropping and we had an 18.5% reduction in crashes involving pedestrians and a 100% reduction in 
fatalities, zero (0). San Mateo has had a 66.6% decrease in pedestrian related crashes since our peak in 
2018.  
 
Our goals, with the financial assistance of OTS grant funds will include continued efforts on reducing 
pedestrian crashes and remaining at zero fatalities. This can only be achieved through constant and 
continuous awareness messaging, ongoing educational programs, and unwavering enforcement. Without 
STEP Grant funds, these goals will be challenging to achieve. 
 
In 2014 the San Mateo Police Department made 426 DUI related arrests. The City had 82 DUI related 
vehicle crashes, 14 of these crashes had injuries, and one (1) fatality. 
 
In 2015, the San Mateo Police Department had 278 DUI related arrests. The City had 61 DUI related vehicle 
crashes with eight (8) injuries and no (zero) fatalities. 
 
In 2016, the San Mateo Police Department had 276 DUI related arrests. The City had 79 DUI related vehicle 
crashes, 22 of these crashes had injuries, and no (zero) fatalities. 
 
In 2017, the San Mateo Police Department had 229 DUI related arrests. The City had 100 DUI related 
vehicle crashes, 23 of these crashes had injuries, and no (zero) fatalities. 
 
In 2018, the San Mateo Police Department had 150 DUI related arrests. The City had 107 DUI related 
vehicle crashes, 33 of these crashes had injuries, and no (zero) fatalities. 
 
In 2019, the San Mateo Police Department had 134 DUI related arrests. The City had 93 DUI related vehicle 
crashes, 26 of these crashes had injuries, and no (zero) fatalities. 
 
In 2020, the San Mateo Police Department had 164 DUI related arrests. The City had 84 DUI related vehicle 
crashes, 24 of these crashes had injuries, and no (zero) fatalities. 
 
60 of 460

--- page 61 ---
9/21/2023 7:28:47 PM 
 
 
Page 4 of 17 
 
In 2021, the San Mateo Police Department had 140 DUI related arrests. The City had 79 DUI related vehicle 
crashes, 20 of these crashes had injuries, and one (1) fatality. 
 
In 2022, the San Mateo Police Department had 169 DUI related arrests. The City had a 29.1% (102) 
increase in DUI related vehicle crashes, 18 of these crashes had injuries, and one (1) fatality. 
 
The rise in DUI crashes, coupled with the increase in DUI related arrests, are cause for attention and careful 
analysis. Our department is committed to addressing these factors and to employ better education, 
relentless enforcement, strong prosecution, directed enforcement, and additional enforcement programs 
afforded by OTS STEP grant funds. Our goals, with the assistance of OTS, include continuing to have a goal 
of zero DUI related fatalities and further reducing the occurrences of drunk driving. We know from our 
experience these achievements can only be maintained through unwavering and relentless enforcement, 
continuing deterrent operations such as DUI checkpoints, and continues public messaging and awareness 
programs. Again, without STEP Grant funds these goals will be more challenging to achieve. 
 
  
2. PERFORMANCE MEASURES 
A. Goals: 
1. Reduce the number of persons killed in traffic crashes. 
2. Reduce the number of persons injured in traffic crashes. 
3. Reduce the number of pedestrians killed in traffic crashes. 
4. Reduce the number of pedestrians injured in traffic crashes. 
5. Reduce the number of bicyclists killed in traffic crashes. 
6. Reduce the number of bicyclists injured in traffic crashes. 
7. Reduce the number of persons killed in alcohol-involved crashes. 
8. Reduce the number of persons injured in alcohol-involved crashes. 
9. Reduce the number of persons killed in drug-involved crashes. 
10. Reduce the number of persons injured in drug-involved crashes. 
11. Reduce the number of persons killed in alcohol/drug combo-involved crashes. 
12. Reduce the number of persons injured in alcohol/drug combo-involved crashes. 
13. Reduce the number of motorcyclists killed in traffic crashes. 
14. Reduce the number of motorcyclists injured in traffic crashes. 
15. Reduce hit & run fatal crashes. 
16. Reduce hit & run injury crashes. 
17. Reduce nighttime (2100 - 0259 hours) fatal crashes. 
18. Reduce nighttime (2100 - 0259 hours) injury crashes. 
B. Objectives: 
Target Number 
1. Issue a press release announcing the kick-off of the grant by November 15.  The 
kick-off press releases and media advisories, alerts, and materials must be 
emailed to the OTS Public Information Officer at pio@ots.ca.gov, and copied to 
your OTS Coordinator, for approval 14 days prior to the issuance date of the 
release. 
1 
2. Participate and report data (as required) in the following campaigns; Quarter 1: 
National Walk to School Day, National Teen Driver Safety Week, NHTSA Winter 
Mobilization; Quarter 3: National Distracted Driving Awareness Month, National 
Motorcycle Safety Month, National Bicycle Safety Month, National Click it or Ticket 
Mobilization; Quarter 4: NHTSA Summer Mobilization, National Child Passenger 
Safety Week, and California's Pedestrian Safety Month. 
12 
3. Develop (by December 31) and/or maintain a “DUI BOLO” program to notify patrol 
and traffic officers to be on the lookout for identified repeat DUI offenders with a 
suspended or revoked license as a result of DUI convictions. Updated DUI BOLOs 
should be distributed to patrol and traffic officers monthly. 
12 
4. Send law enforcement personnel to the NHTSA Standardized Field Sobriety 
Testing (SFST) (minimum 16 hours) POST-certified training. 
6 
5. Send law enforcement personnel to the NHTSA Advanced Roadside Impaired 
Driving Enforcement (ARIDE) 16 hour POST-certified training. 
2 
6. Send law enforcement personnel to the Drug Recognition Expert (DRE) training. 
2 
61 of 460

--- page 62 ---
9/21/2023 7:28:47 PM 
 
 
Page 5 of 17 
 
7. Send law enforcement personnel to SFST Instructor training. 
1 
8. Conduct DUI/DL Checkpoints. A minimum of 1 checkpoint should be conducted 
during the NHTSA Winter Mobilization and 1 during the Summer Mobilization. To 
enhance the overall deterrent effect and promote high visibility, it is recommended 
the grantee issue an advance press release and conduct social media activity for 
each checkpoint. For combination DUI/DL checkpoints, departments should issue 
press releases that mention DL's will be checked at the DUI/DL checkpoint. Signs 
for DUI/DL checkpoints should read "DUI/Driver's License Checkpoint Ahead." 
OTS does not fund or support independent DL checkpoints. Only on an exception 
basis and with OTS pre-approval will OTS fund checkpoints that begin prior to 
1800 hours. When possible, DUI/DL Checkpoint screeners should be DRE- or 
ARIDE-trained. 
6 
9. Conduct DUI Saturation Patrol operation(s). 
18 
10. Conduct Traffic Enforcement operation(s), including but not limited to, primary 
crash factor violations. 
20 
11. Conduct highly publicized Distracted Driving enforcement operation(s) targeting 
drivers using hand held cell phones and texting. 
10 
12. Conduct highly publicized Motorcycle Safety enforcement operation(s) in areas or 
during events with a high number of motorcycle incidents or crashes resulting from 
unsafe speed, DUI, following too closely, unsafe lane changes, improper turning, 
and other primary crash factor violations by motorcyclists and other drivers. 
1 
13. Conduct highly publicized pedestrian and/or bicycle enforcement operation(s) in 
areas or during events with a high number of pedestrian and/or bicycle crashes 
resulting from violations made by pedestrians, bicyclists, and drivers. 
10 
14. Conduct Traffic Safety educational presentation(s) with an effort to reach 
community members. Note: Presentation(s) may include topics such as distracted 
driving, DUI, speed, bicycle and pedestrian safety, seat belts and child passenger 
safety. 
2 
15. Participate in highly visible collaborative DUI Enforcement operations. 
4 
16. Participate in highly visible collaborative Traffic Enforcement operations. 
6 
17. Send law enforcement personnel to DUI Checkpoint Planning and Management 
training. 
2 
3. METHOD OF PROCEDURE 
A. Phase 1 – Program Preparation (1st Quarter of Grant Year) 
 
The department will develop operational plans to implement the “best practice” strategies 
outlined in the objectives section. 
 
All training needed to implement the program should be conducted in the first quarter.  
 
All grant related purchases needed to implement the program should be made in the first quarter. 
 
In order to develop/maintain the “DUI BOLOs,” research will be conducted to identify the “worst of 
the worst” repeat DUI offenders with a suspended or revoked license as a result of DUI 
convictions. The DUI BOLO may include the driver’s name, last known address, DOB, 
description, current license status, and the number of times suspended or revoked for DUI. DUI 
BOLOs should be updated and distributed to traffic and patrol officers at least monthly.  
 
Implementation of the STEP grant activities will be accomplished by deploying personnel at high 
crash locations. 
Media Requirements Issue a press release approved by the OTS PIO announcing the kick-off of the 
grant by November 15, but no sooner than October 1. The kick-off release must be approved by the 
OTS PIO and only distributed after the grant is fully signed and executed. If you are unable to meet the 
November 15 deadline to issue a kick-off press release, communicate reasons to your OTS coordinator 
and OTS PIO.  
None. 
B. Phase 2 – Program Operations (Throughout Grant Year) 
 
The department will work to create media opportunities throughout the grant period to call 
attention to the innovative program strategies and outcomes. 
 
The City of San Mateo will continue it's "Safe Streets San Mateo" program which is a 
collaborative effort between San Mateo PD PIO, public works PIO and City of San Mateo PIO. 
62 of 460

--- page 63 ---
9/21/2023 7:28:47 PM 
 
 
Page 6 of 17 
 
Our social media team has expanded to include all social media platforms and outlets.Media 
Requirements 
 
The following requirements are for all grant-related activities: 
 
Send all media advisories, alerts, videos, graphics, artwork, posters, radio/PSA/video scripts, 
storyboards, digital and/or print educational materials for grant-related activities to the OTS PIO 
at pio@ots.ca.gov for approval and copy your OTS coordinator. Optimum lead time would be 7 
days before the scheduled release but at least 3 business days prior to the scheduled release 
date for review and approval is appreciated. 
 
The OTS PIO is responsible for the approval of the design and content of materials. The agency 
understands OTS PIO approval is not authorizing approval of budget expenditure or cost. Any 
cost approvals must come from the Coordinator. 
 
Pre-approval is not required when using any OTS-supplied template for media advisories, press 
releases, social media graphics, videos or posts, or any other OTS-supplied educational material. 
However, copy the OTS PIO at pio@ots.ca.gov and your OTS coordinator when any material is 
distributed to the media and public, such as a press release, educational material, or link to social 
media post. The OTS-supplied kick-off press release templates and any kickoff press releases 
are an exception to this policy and require prior approval before distribution to the media and 
public. 
 
If an OTS-supplied template, educational material, social media graphic, post or video is 
substantially changed, the changes shall be sent to the OTS PIO at pio@ots.ca.gov for approval 
and copy to your OTS Coordinator. Optimum lead time would be 7 days prior to the scheduled 
release date, but at least 3 business days prior to the scheduled release date for review and 
approval is appreciated. 
 
Press releases, social media posts and alerts on platforms such as NextDoor and Nixle reporting 
immediate and time-sensitive grant activities (e.g. enforcement operations, day of event 
highlights or announcements, event invites) are exempt from the OTS PIO approval process. The 
OTS PIO and your Coordinator should still be notified when the grant-related activity is 
happening (e.g. car seat checks, bicycle rodeos, community presentations, DUI checkpoints, 
etc.).  
 
Enforcement activities such as warrant and probation sweeps, court stings, etc. that are 
embargoed or could impact operations by publicizing in advance are exempt from the PIO 
approval process. However, announcements and results of activities should still be copied to the 
OTS PIO at pio@ots.ca.gov and your Coordinator with embargoed date and time or with 
“INTERNAL ONLY: DO NOT RELEASE” message in subject line of email.  
 
Any earned or paid media campaigns for TV, radio, digital or social media that are part of a 
specific grant objective, using OTS grant funds, or designed and developed using contractual 
services by a subgrantee, requires prior approval. Please send to the OTS PIO at 
pio@ots.ca.gov for approval and copy your grant coordinator at least 3 business days prior to the 
scheduled release date. 
 
Social media posts highlighting state or national traffic safety campaigns (Distracted Driving 
Month, Motorcycle Safety Awareness Month, etc.), enforcement operations (DUI checkpoints, 
etc.), or any other grant-related activity such as Bicycle rodeos, presentations, or events, are 
highly encouraged but do not require prior approval. 
 
Submit a draft or rough-cut of all digital, printed, recorded or video material (brochures, posters, 
scripts, artwork, trailer graphics, digital graphics, social posts connected to an earned or paid 
media campaign grant objective) to the OTS PIO at pio@ots.ca.gov and copy your OTS 
Coordinator for approval prior to the production or duplication. 
 
Use the following standard language in all press, media, and printed materials, space permitting: 
Funding for this program was provided by a grant from the California Office of Traffic Safety, 
through the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. 
 
Space permitting, include the OTS logo on all grant-funded print materials, graphics and paid or 
earned social media campaign grant objective; consult your OTS Coordinator for specifics, 
format-appropriate logos, or if space does not permit the use of the OTS logo. 
 
Email the OTS PIO at pio@ots.ca.gov and copy your OTS Coordinator at least 21 days in 
advance, or when first confirmed, a short description of any significant grant-related traffic safety 
event or program, particularly events that are highly publicized beforehand with anticipated media 
63 of 460

--- page 64 ---
9/21/2023 7:28:47 PM 
 
 
Page 7 of 17 
 
coverage so OTS has sufficient notice to arrange for attendance and/or participation in the event. 
If unable to attend, email the OTS PIO and coordinator brief highlights and/or results, including 
any media coverage (broadcast, digital, print) of event within 7 days following significant grant-
related event or program. Media and program highlights are to be reflected in QPRs. 
 
Any press releases, work plans, scripts, storyboards, artwork, graphics, videos or any 
educational or informational materials that received PIO approval in a prior grant year needs to 
be resubmitted for approval in the current grant year.  
 
Contact the OTS PIO or your OTS Coordinator for consultation when changes from any of the 
above requirements might be warranted.  
 
C. Phase 3 – Data Collection & Reporting (Throughout Grant Year) 
1. Prepare and submit grant claim invoices (due January 30, April 30, July 30, and October 30) 
2. Prepare and submit Quarterly Performance Reports (QPR) (due January 30, April 30, July 30, and 
October 30) 
 
Collect and report quarterly, appropriate data that supports the progress of goals and objectives. 
 
Provide a brief list of activity conducted, procurement of grant-funded items, and significant 
media activities. Include status of grant-funded personnel, status of contracts, challenges, or 
special accomplishments. 
 
Provide a brief summary of quarterly accomplishments and explanations for objectives not 
completed or plans for upcoming activities. 
 
Collect, analyze and report statistical data relating to the grant goals and objectives.  
None. 
4. METHOD OF EVALUATION 
Using the data compiled during the grant, the Grant Director will complete the “Final Evaluation” section in 
the fourth/final Quarterly Performance Report (QPR). The Final Evaluation should provide a brief summary 
of the grant’s accomplishments, challenges and significant activities. This narrative should also include 
whether goals and objectives were met, exceeded, or an explanation of why objectives were not completed. 
5. ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT 
This program has full administrative support, and every effort will be made to continue the grant activities 
after grant conclusion. 
 
 
 
64 of 460

--- page 65 ---
9/21/2023 7:28:47 PM 
 
 
Page 8 of 17 
 
State of California – Office of Traffic Safety 
GRANT AGREEMENT  
Schedule B 
GRANT NUMBER 
PT24179 
 
FUND NUMBER 
CATALOG 
NUMBER (CFDA) 
FUND DESCRIPTION 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
164AL-24 
20.608 
Minimum Penalties for Repeat 
Offenders for Driving While 
Intoxicated 
$150,000.00 
402PT-24 
20.600 
State and Community Highway 
Safety 
$60,000.00 
 
COST CATEGORY 
FUND 
NUMBER 
UNIT COST OR 
RATE 
UNITS 
TOTAL COST TO 
GRANT 
A. PERSONNEL COSTS 
 
 
 
 
 
Straight Time 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
$0.00 
Overtime 
 
 
 
 
DUI/DL Checkpoints 
164AL-24 
$12,060.00 
6 
$72,360.00 
DUI Saturation Patrols 
164AL-24 
$1,005.60 
18 
$18,101.00 
Collaborative DUI Enforcement 
164AL-24 
$1,005.60 
4 
$4,022.00 
Traffic Enforcement 
402PT-24 
$1,005.60 
20 
$20,112.00 
Motorcycle Safety 
402PT-24 
$1,005.60 
1 
$1,006.00 
Pedestrian and Bicycle Enforcement 
402PT-24 
$1,005.60 
10 
$10,056.00 
Distracted Driving 
402PT-24 
$1,005.60 
10 
$10,056.00 
Collaborative Traffic Enforcement 
402PT-24 
$1,005.60 
6 
$6,034.00 
Category Sub-Total 
 
 
 
$141,747.00 
B. TRAVEL EXPENSES 
In State Travel 
402PT-24 
$5,836.00 
1 
$5,836.00 
 
 
 
 
$0.00 
Category Sub-Total 
 
 
 
$5,836.00 
C. CONTRACTUAL SERVICES 
 
 
 
 
$0.00 
Category Sub-Total 
 
 
 
$0.00 
D. EQUIPMENT 
 
 
 
 
DUI Trailer 
164AL-24 
$45,000.00 
1 
$45,000.00 
Category Sub-Total 
 
 
 
$45,000.00 
E. OTHER DIRECT COSTS 
DUI Checkpoint Supplies 
164AL-24 
$5,617.00 
1 
$5,617.00 
Vehicle Wrap 
402PT-24 
$4,900.00 
1 
$4,900.00 
Portable Light Tower 
164AL-24 
$4,900.00 
1 
$4,900.00 
Collaborative Meetings 
402PT-24 
$500.00 
4 
$2,000.00 
Category Sub-Total 
 
 
 
$17,417.00 
F. INDIRECT COSTS 
 
 
 
 
$0.00 
Category Sub-Total 
 
 
 
$0.00 
GRANT TOTAL 
 
 
 
$210,000.00 
 
 
65 of 460

--- page 66 ---
9/21/2023 7:28:47 PM 
 
 
Page 9 of 17 
 
State of California – Office of Traffic Safety 
GRANT AGREEMENT  
Schedule B-1 
GRANT NUMBER 
PT24179 
 
BUDGET NARRATIVE 
PERSONNEL COSTS 
DUI/DL Checkpoints - Overtime for grant funded law enforcement operations conducted by appropriate 
department personnel.  
DUI Saturation Patrols - Overtime for grant funded law enforcement operations conducted by appropriate 
department personnel.  
Collaborative DUI Enforcement - Overtime for grant funded Collaborative DUI Enforcement operations 
conducted by appropriate department personnel  
Traffic Enforcement - Overtime for grant funded law enforcement operations conducted by appropriate 
department personnel.  
Motorcycle Safety - Overtime for grant funded law enforcement operations conducted by appropriate 
department personnel.  
Pedestrian and Bicycle Enforcement - Overtime for grant funded law enforcement operations conducted by 
appropriate department personnel.  
Distracted Driving - Overtime for grant funded law enforcement operations conducted by appropriate 
department personnel.  
Collaborative Traffic Enforcement - Overtime for grant funded Collaborative Traffic Enforcement operations 
conducted by appropriate department personnel  
 
TRAVEL EXPENSES 
In State Travel - Costs are included for appropriate staff to attend conferences and training events 
supporting the grant goals and objectives and/or traffic safety. Local mileage for grant activities and 
meetings is included. Anticipated travel may include the California Traffic Safety Summit (November 7-8, 
2023, in Orange County) and the OTS Traffic Safety Law Enforcement Forum. All conferences, seminars or 
training not specifically identified in the Budget Narrative must be approved by OTS. All travel claimed must 
be at the agency approved rate. Per Diem may not be claimed for meals provided at conferences when 
registration fees are paid with OTS grant funds.  
 
CONTRACTUAL SERVICES 
 -   
EQUIPMENT 
DUI Trailer - Fully equipped trailer to transport DUI checkpoint supplies and to serve as a communication 
and command post during OTS operations.  Costs may include the trailer, sales tax, delivery, installation 
costs, and other modifications and accessories or other items necessary to make the trailer usable for grant 
purposes, such as a generator, lighting, paint and graphics.  The trailer cannot include any furniture or 
fixtures not affixed to the trailer.  
OTHER DIRECT COSTS 
DUI Checkpoint Supplies - On-scene supplies needed to conduct sobriety checkpoints. Costs may include 
28" traffic cones, MUTCD compliant traffic signs, MUTCD compliant high visibility vests (maximum of 10), 
traffic counters (maximum of 2), generator, gas for generators, lighting, reflective banners, electronic flares, 
PAS Device/Calibration Supplies, heater, propane for heaters, fan, anti-fatigue mats, and canopies. 
Additional items may be purchased if approved by OTS. The cost of food and beverages will not be 
reimbursed. Each item must have a unit cost of less than $5,000 (including tax and shipping).  
Vehicle Wrap - Signage applied to a vehicle turning it into a mobile billboard. The wrap must include a traffic 
safety message and include the OTS logo. Draft graphics must be submitted to OTS for prior approval. OTS 
will not pay for paid media space under this line item.  
Portable Light Tower - High intensity light on a telescoping shaft and stabilized platform to illuminate a wide 
area for greater visibility during night time operations.  Costs may include a generator and accessories.  
Collaborative Meetings - Costs for law enforcement agencies to discuss traffic safety trends and plan 
collaborative operations. Costs may include food and beverages for attendees, additional costs may be 
included if approved by OTS. Adequate records including an agenda must be maintained.  
INDIRECT COSTS 
 -   
66 of 460

--- page 67 ---
9/21/2023 7:28:47 PM 
 
 
Page 10 of 17 
 
STATEMENTS/DISCLAIMERS 
There will be no program income generated from this grant. 
Nothing in this “agreement” shall be interpreted as a requirement, formal or informal, that a particular law 
enforcement officer issue a specified or predetermined number of citations in pursuance of the goals and 
objectives here under. 
 
 
67 of 460

--- page 68 ---
9/21/2023 7:28:47 PM 
 
 
Page 11 of 17 
 
State of California – Office of Traffic Safety 
GRANT AGREEMENT  
Exhibit A 
GRANT NUMBER 
PT24179 
 
Certifications and Assurances for Fiscal Year 2024 Highway Safety Grants (23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 or Section 1906, 
Public Law 109-59, as amended by Section 25024, Public Law 117-58) 
 
The officials named on the grant agreement, certify by way of signature on the grant agreement signature page, 
that the Grantee Agency complies with all applicable Federal statutes, regulations, and directives and State rules, 
guidelines, policies, and laws in effect with respect to the periods for which it receives grant funding. Applicable 
provisions include, but are not limited to, the following: 
 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 
The State will comply with applicable statutes and regulations, including but not limited to: 
 
 
23 U.S.C. Chapter 4—Highway Safety Act of 1966, as amended; 
 
Sec. 1906, Public Law 109-59, as amended by Sec. 25024, Public Law 117-58; 
 
23 CFR part 1300—Uniform Procedures for State Highway Safety Grant Programs;  
 
2 CFR part 200—Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal 
Awards; 
 
2 CFR part 1201—Department of Transportation, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit 
Requirements for Federal Awards. 
 
NONDISCRIMINATION 
(applies to all subrecipients as well as States) 
The State highway safety agency [and its subrecipients] will comply with all Federal statutes and implementing regulations 
relating to nondiscrimination (“Federal Nondiscrimination Authorities”). These include but are not limited to: 
 
 
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq., 78 stat. 252), (prohibits discrimination on the 
basis of race, color, national origin); 
 
49 CFR part 21 (entitled Non-discrimination in Federally-Assisted Programs of the Department of 
Transportation—Effectuation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964); 
 
28 CFR 50.3 (U.S. Department of Justice Guidelines for Enforcement of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964); 
 
The Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, (42 U.S.C. 4601), 
(prohibits unfair treatment of persons displaced or whose property has been acquired because of Federal or 
Federal-aid programs and projects); 
 
Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1973, (23 U.S.C. 324 et seq.), and Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, 
as amended (20 U.S.C. 1681-1683 and 1685-1686) (prohibit discrimination on the basis of sex); 
 
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, (29 U.S.C. 794 et seq.), as amended, (prohibits 
discrimination on the basis of disability) and 49 CFR part 27; 
 
The Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended, (42 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), (prohibits discrimination on the 
basis of age); 
 
The Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987, (Pub. L. 100-209), (broadens scope, coverage, and applicability of Title 
VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, The Age Discrimination Act of 1975 and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 
1973, by expanding the definition of the terms “programs or activities” to include all of the programs or activities 
of the Federal aid recipients, subrecipients and contractors, whether such programs or activities are Federally-
funded or not); 
 
Titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12131-12189) (prohibits discrimination on the 
basis of disability in the operation of public entities, public and private transportation systems, places of public 
accommodation, and certain testing) and 49 CFR parts 37 and 38; 
 
Executive Order 12898, Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority Populations and Low-
Income Populations (preventing discrimination against minority populations by discouraging programs, 
policies, and activities with disproportionately high and adverse human health or environmental effects on 
minority and low-income populations); 
 
Executive Order 13166, Improving Access to Services for Persons with Limited English Proficiency (requiring that 
recipients of Federal financial assistance provide meaningful access for applicants and beneficiaries who have 
limited English proficiency (LEP)); 
 
Executive Order 13985, Advancing Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities through the 
Federal Government (advancing equity across the Federal Government); and 
 
Executive Order 13988, Preventing and Combating Discrimination on the Basis of Gender Identity or 
Sexual Orientation (clarifying that sex discrimination includes discrimination on the grounds of gender 
identity or sexual orientation). 
 
68 of 460

--- page 69 ---
9/21/2023 7:28:47 PM 
 
 
Page 12 of 17 
 
The preceding statutory and regulatory cites hereinafter are referred to as the “Acts” and “Regulations,” respectively. 
 
GENERAL ASSURANCES 
 
In accordance with the Acts, the Regulations, and other pertinent directives, circulars, policy, memoranda, and/or 
guidance, the Recipient hereby gives assurance that it will promptly take any measures necessary to ensure that: 
 
“No person in the United States shall, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be 
denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under any program or activity, for which the Recipient 
receives Federal financial assistance from DOT, including NHTSA.” 
 
The Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987 clarified the original intent of Congress, with respect to Title VI of the Civil Rights 
Act of 1964 and other non-discrimination requirements (the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, and Section 504 of the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973), by restoring the broad, institutional-wide scope and coverage of these nondiscrimination 
statutes and requirements to include all programs and activities of the Recipient, so long as any portion of the program is 
Federally assisted. 
 
SPECIFIC ASSURANCES 
More specifically, and without limiting the above general Assurance, the Recipient agrees with and gives the following 
Assurances with respect to its Federally assisted Highway Safety Grant Program: 
 
1. The Recipient agrees that each “activity,” “facility,” or “program,” as defined in 
 49 CFR 
part 21 will be (with regard to an “activity”) facilitated, or will be (with regard to a “facility”) operated, or will be 
(with regard to a “program”) conducted in compliance with all requirements imposed by, or pursuant to the 
Acts and the Regulations. 
2. The Recipient will insert the following notification in all solicitations for bids, Requests For Proposals for work, 
or material subject to the Acts and the Regulations made in connection with all Highway Safety Grant 
Programs and, in adapted form, in all proposals for negotiated agreements regardless of funding source: 
“The [name of Recipient], in accordance with the provisions of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (78 Stat. 
252, 42 U.S.C 2000d to 2000d-4) and the Regulations, hereby notifies all bidders that it will affirmatively 
ensure that in any contract entered into pursuant to this advertisement, disadvantaged business enterprises 
will be afforded full and fair opportunity to submit bids in response to this invitation and will not be 
discriminated against on the grounds of race, color, or national origin in consideration for an award.” 
3. The Recipient will insert the clauses of appendix A and E of this Assurance (also referred 
 in every contract or agreement subject to the Acts and the Regulations. 
4. The Recipient will insert the clauses of appendix B of DOT Order 1050.2A, as a covenant running with the land, 
in any deed from the United States effecting or recording a transfer of real property, structures, use, or 
improvements thereon or interest therein to a Recipient. 
5. That where the Recipient receives Federal financial assistance to construct a facility, or part of a facility, the 
Assurance will extend to the entire facility and facilities operated in connection therewith. 
6. That where the Recipient receives Federal financial assistance in the form of, or for the acquisition of, real 
property or an interest in real property, the Assurance will extend to rights to space on, over, or under such 
property. 
7. That the Recipient will include the clauses set forth in appendix C and appendix D of this DOT Order 1050.2A, 
as a covenant running with the land, in any future deeds, leases, licenses, permits, or similar instruments 
entered into by the Recipient with other parties: 
a. for the subsequent transfer of real property acquired or improved under the applicable activity, 
project, or program; and 
b. for the construction or use of, or access to, space on, over, or under real property acquired or 
improved under the applicable activity, project, or program. 
8. That this Assurance obligates the Recipient for the period during which Federal financial assistance is extended 
to the program, except where the Federal financial assistance is to provide, or is in the form of, personal 
property, or real property, or interest therein, or structures or improvements thereon, in which case the 
Assurance obligates the Recipient, or any transferee for the longer of the following periods: 
a. the period during which the property is used for a purpose for which the Federal financial assistance is 
extended, or for another purpose involving the provision of similar services or benefits; or 
b. the period during which the Recipient retains ownership or possession of the property. 
9. The Recipient will provide for such methods of administration for the program as are found by the Secretary of 
Transportation or the official to whom he/she delegates specific authority to give reasonable guarantee that it, 
other recipients, sub-recipients, sub- grantees, contractors, subcontractors, consultants, transferees, 
successors in interest, and other participants of Federal financial assistance under such program will comply 
with all requirements imposed or pursuant to the Acts, the Regulations, and this Assurance. 
10. The Recipient agrees that the United States has a right to seek judicial enforcement with regard to any matter 
arising under the Acts, the Regulations, and this Assurance. 
69 of 460

--- page 70 ---
9/21/2023 7:28:47 PM 
 
 
Page 13 of 17 
 
 
By signing this ASSURANCE, the State highway safety agency also agrees to comply (and require any sub-recipients, 
sub-grantees, contractors, successors, transferees, and/or assignees to comply) with all applicable provisions governing 
NHTSA's access to records, accounts, documents, information, facilities, and staff. You also recognize that you must 
comply with any program or compliance reviews, and/or complaint investigations conducted by NHTSA. You must keep 
records, reports, and submit the material for review upon request to NHTSA, or its designee in a timely, complete, and 
accurate way. Additionally, you must comply with all other reporting, data collection, and evaluation requirements, as 
prescribed by law or detailed in program guidance. 
 
The State highway safety agency gives this ASSURANCE in consideration of and for obtaining any Federal grants, loans, 
contracts, agreements, property, and/or discounts, or other Federal-aid and Federal financial assistance extended after the 
date hereof to the recipients by the U.S. Department of Transportation under the Highway Safety Grant Program. This 
ASSURANCE is binding on the State highway safety agency, other recipients, sub-recipients, sub-grantees, contractors, 
subcontractors and their subcontractors', transferees, successors in interest, and any other participants in the Highway 
Safety Grant Program. The person(s) signing below is/are authorized to sign this ASSURANCE on behalf of the Recipient. 
 
THE DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE ACT OF 1988 (41 U.S.C. 8103) 
The Subgrantee will provide a drug-free workplace by: 
a. Publishing a statement notifying employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, 
possession or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in the grantee's workplace, and specifying the 
actions that will be taken against employees for violation of such prohibition; 
b. Establishing a drug-free awareness program to inform employees about: 
1. The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace; 
2. The grantee's policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace; 
3. Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance programs; 
4. The penalties that may be imposed upon employees for drug violations occurring in the workplace; 
5. Making it a requirement that each employee engaged in the performance of the grant be given a 
copy of the statement required by paragraph (a); 
c. Notifying the employee in the statement required by paragraph (a) that, as a condition of employment under 
the grant, the employee will— 
1. Abide by the terms of the statement; 
2. Notify the employer of any criminal drug statute conviction for a violation occurring in the 
workplace no later than five days after such conviction; 
d. Notifying the agency within ten days after receiving notice under subparagraph (c)(2) from an employee or 
otherwise receiving actual notice of such conviction; 
e. Taking one of the following actions, within 30 days of receiving notice under subparagraph (c)(2), 
with respect to any employee who is so convicted— 
1. Taking appropriate personnel action against such an employee, up to and including 
termination; 
2. Requiring such employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation 
program approved for such purposes by a Federal, State, or local health, law enforcement, or other 
appropriate agency; 
f. 
Making a good faith effort to continue to maintain a drug-free workplace through implementation of all 
of the paragraphs above. 
 
POLITICAL ACTIVITY (HATCH ACT) 
(applies to all subrecipients as well as States) 
The State will comply with provisions of the Hatch Act (5 U.S.C. 1501-1508), which limits the political activities of 
employees whose principal employment activities are funded in whole or in part with Federal funds. 
 
CERTIFICATION REGARDING FEDERAL LOBBYING 
(applies to all subrecipients as well as States) 
 
CERTIFICATION FOR CONTRACTS, GRANTS, LOANS, AND COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS 
 
The undersigned certifies, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that: 
 
1. No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of the undersigned, to any 
person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, 
an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding 
of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of 
any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any 
Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement; 
70 of 460

--- page 71 ---
9/21/2023 7:28:47 PM 
 
 
Page 14 of 17 
 
2. If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing 
or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee 
of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal contract, grant, loan, or 
cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to 
Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions; 
3. The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award documents for all 
sub-awards at all tiers (including subcontracts, subgrants, and contracts under grant, loans, and cooperative 
agreements) and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose accordingly. 
 
This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction was 
made or entered into. Submission of this certification is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction 
imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required certification shall be 
subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure. 
 
RESTRICTION ON STATE LOBBYING 
(applies to subrecipients as well as States) 
 
None of the funds under this program will be used for any activity specifically designed to urge or influence a State or local 
legislator to favor or oppose the adoption of any specific legislative proposal pending before any State or local legislative 
body. Such activities include both direct and indirect (e.g., “grassroots”) lobbying activities, with one exception. This does 
not preclude a State official whose salary is supported with NHTSA funds from engaging in direct communications with 
State or local legislative officials, in accordance with customary State practice, even if such communications urge 
legislative officials to favor or oppose the adoption of a specific pending legislative proposal. 
 
CERTIFICATION REGARDING DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION 
(applies to all subrecipients as well as States) 
 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR PRIMARY TIER PARTICIPANT CERTIFICATION (STATES) 
 
1. By signing and submitting this proposal, the prospective primary tier participant is providing the certification set 
out below and agrees to comply with the requirements of 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200. 
2. The inability of a person to provide the certification required below will not necessarily result in denial of 
participation in this covered transaction. The prospective primary tier participant shall submit an explanation of 
why it cannot provide the certification set out below. The certification or explanation will be considered in 
connection with the department or agency's determination whether to enter into this transaction. However, 
failure of the prospective primary tier participant to furnish a certification or an explanation shall disqualify 
such person from participation in this transaction. 
3. The certification in this clause is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when the 
department or agency determined to enter into this transaction. If it is later determined that the prospective 
primary tier participant knowingly rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to other remedies available to 
the Federal Government, the department or agency may terminate this transaction for cause or default or may 
pursue suspension or debarment. 
4. The prospective primary tier participant shall provide immediate written notice to the department or agency to 
which this proposal is submitted if at any time the prospective primary tier participant learns its certification 
was erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances. 
5. The terms covered transaction, civil judgment, debarment, suspension, ineligible, participant, 
person, principal, and voluntarily excluded, as used in this clause, are defined in 2 CFR parts 180 and 
1200. You may contact the department or agency to which this proposal is being submitted for assistance 
in obtaining a copy of those regulations. 
6. The prospective primary tier participant agrees by submitting this proposal that, should the proposed covered 
transaction be entered into, it shall not knowingly enter into any lower tier covered transaction with a person 
who is proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred, suspended, declared ineligible, or 
voluntarily excluded from participation in this covered transaction, unless authorized by the department or 
agency entering into this transaction. 
7. The prospective primary tier participant further agrees by submitting this proposal that it will include the clause 
titled “Instructions for Lower Tier Participant Certification” including the “Certification Regarding Debarment, 
Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion—Lower Tier Covered Transaction,” provided by the 
department or agency entering into this covered transaction, without modification, in all lower tier covered 
transactions and in all solicitations for lower tier covered transactions and will require lower tier participants to 
comply with 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200. 
8. A participant in a covered transaction may rely upon a certification of a prospective participant in a lower tier 
covered transaction that it is not proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred, 
suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from the covered transaction, unless it knows that the certification 
is erroneous. A participant is responsible for ensuring that its principals are not suspended, debarred, or 
71 of 460

--- page 72 ---
9/21/2023 7:28:47 PM 
 
 
Page 15 of 17 
 
otherwise ineligible to participate in covered transactions. To verify the eligibility of its principals, as well as the 
eligibility of any prospective lower tier participants, each participant may, but is not required to, check the 
System for Award Management Exclusions website 
(https://www.sam.gov/). 
9. Nothing contained in the foregoing shall be construed to require establishment of a system of records in order 
to render in good faith the certification required by this clause. The knowledge and information of a participant is 
not required to exceed that which is normally possessed by a prudent person in the ordinary course of business 
dealings. 
10. Except for transactions authorized under paragraph 6 of these instructions, if a participant in a covered 
transaction knowingly enters into a lower tier covered transaction with a person who is proposed for debarment 
under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, suspended, debarred, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in 
this transaction, in addition to other remedies available to the Federal Government, the department or agency 
may terminate the transaction for cause or default. 
CERTIFICATION REGARDING DEBARMENT, SUSPENSION, AND OTHER RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS—
PRIMARY TIER COVERED TRANSACTIONS 
 
1. The prospective primary tier participant certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief, that it and its 
principals: 
a. Are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily 
excluded from participating in covered transactions by any Federal department or agency; 
b. Have not within a three-year period preceding this proposal been convicted of or had a civil judgment 
rendered against them for commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, 
attempting to obtain, or performing a public (Federal, State, or local) transaction or contract under a 
public transaction; violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes or commission of embezzlement, theft, 
forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, or receiving stolen 
property; 
c. Are not presently indicted for or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity 
(Federal, State, or local) with commission of any of the offenses enumerated in paragraph (1)(b) 
of this certification; and 
d. Have not within a three-year period preceding this application/proposal had one or more public 
transactions (Federal, State, or local) terminated for cause or default. 
2. Where the prospective primary tier participant is unable to certify to any of the Statements in this certification, 
such prospective participant shall attach an explanation to this proposal. 
 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR LOWER TIER PARTICIPANT CERTIFICATION 
 
1. By signing and submitting this proposal, the prospective lower tier participant is providing the certification set 
out below and agrees to comply with the requirements of 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200. 
2. The certification in this clause is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this 
transaction was entered into. If it is later determined that the prospective lower tier participant knowingly 
rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to other remedies available to the Federal Government, the 
department or agency with which this transaction originated may pursue available remedies, including 
suspension or debarment. 
3. The prospective lower tier participant shall provide immediate written notice to the person to which this 
proposal is submitted if at any time the prospective lower tier participant learns that its certification was 
erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances. 
4. The terms covered transaction, civil judgment, debarment, suspension, ineligible, participant, person, 
principal, and voluntarily excluded, as used in this clause, are defined in 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200. You 
may contact the person to whom this proposal is submitted for assistance in obtaining a copy of those 
regulations. 
5. The prospective lower tier participant agrees by submitting this proposal that, should the proposed covered 
transaction be entered into, it shall not knowingly enter into any lower tier covered transaction with a person 
who is proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred, suspended, declared ineligible, or 
voluntarily excluded from participation in this covered transaction, unless authorized by the department or 
agency with which this transaction originated. 
6. The prospective lower tier participant further agrees by submitting this proposal that it will include the clause 
titled “Instructions for Lower Tier Participant Certification” including the “Certification Regarding Debarment, 
Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion—Lower Tier Covered Transaction,” without modification, in 
all lower tier covered transactions and in all solicitations for lower tier covered transactions and will require 
lower tier participants to comply with 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200. 
7. A participant in a covered transaction may rely upon a certification of a prospective participant in a lower tier 
covered transaction that it is not proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred, 
suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from the covered transaction, unless it knows that the certification 
is erroneous. A participant is responsible for ensuring that its principals are not suspended, debarred, or 
72 of 460

--- page 73 ---
9/21/2023 7:28:47 PM 
 
 
Page 16 of 17 
 
otherwise ineligible to participate in covered transactions. To verify the eligibility of its principals, as well as the 
eligibility of any prospective lower tier participants, each participant may, but is not required to, check the 
System for Award Management Exclusions website 
( https://www.sam.gov/). 
8. Nothing contained in the foregoing shall be construed to require establishment of a system of records in order 
to render in good faith the certification required by this clause. The knowledge and information of a participant is 
not required to exceed that which is normally possessed by a prudent person in the ordinary course of business 
dealings. 
9. Except for transactions authorized under paragraph 5 of these instructions, if a participant in a covered 
transaction knowingly enters into a lower tier covered transaction with a person who is proposed for debarment 
under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, suspended, debarred, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in 
this transaction, in addition to other remedies available to the Federal Government, the department or agency 
with which this transaction originated may pursue available remedies, including suspension or debarment. 
 
 
CERTIFICATION REGARDING DEBARMENT, SUSPENSION, INELIGIBILITY AND VOLUNTARY EXCLUSION—
LOWER TIER COVERED TRANSACTIONS 
 
1. The prospective lower tier participant certifies, by submission of this proposal, that neither it nor its principals is 
presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from 
participating in covered transactions by any Federal department or agency. 
2. Where the prospective lower tier participant is unable to certify to any of the statements in this certification, 
such prospective participant shall attach an explanation to this proposal. 
 
 
BUY AMERICA 
(applies to subrecipients as well as States) 
 
The State and each subrecipient will comply with the Buy America requirement (23 U.S.C. 313) when purchasing items 
using Federal funds. Buy America requires a State, or subrecipient, to purchase with Federal funds only steel, iron and 
manufactured products produced in the United States, unless the Secretary of Transportation determines that such 
domestically produced items would be inconsistent with the public interest, that such materials are not reasonably 
available and of a satisfactory quality, or that inclusion of domestic materials will increase the cost of the overall project 
contract by more than 25 percent. In order to use Federal funds to purchase foreign produced items, the State must 
submit a waiver request that provides an adequate basis and justification for approval by the Secretary of Transportation. 
 
CERTIFICATION ON CONFLICT OF INTEREST 
(applies to subrecipients as well as States)  
 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 
 
No employee, officer, or agent of a State or its subrecipient who is authorized in an official capacity to negotiate, make, 
accept, or approve, or to take part in negotiating, making, accepting, or approving any subaward, including contracts or 
subcontracts, in connection with this grant shall have, directly or indirectly, any financial or personal interest in any such 
subaward. Such a financial or personal interest would arise when the employee, officer, or agent, any member of his or 
her immediate family, his or her partner, or an organization which employs or is about to employ any of the parties 
indicated herein, has a financial or personal interest in or a tangible personal benefit from an entity considered for a 
subaward. Based on this policy: 
 
1. The recipient shall maintain a written code or standards of conduct that provide for disciplinary actions to be 
applied for violations of such standards by officers, employees, or agents. 
a. The code or standards shall provide that the recipient's officers, employees, or agents may neither 
solicit nor accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from present or potential 
subawardees, including contractors or parties to subcontracts. 
b. The code or standards shall establish penalties, sanctions, or other disciplinary actions for 
violations, as permitted by State or local law or regulations. 
2. The recipient shall maintain responsibility to enforce the requirements of the written code or standards of 
conduct. 
 
 
 
 
 
73 of 460

--- page 74 ---
9/21/2023 7:28:47 PM 
 
 
Page 17 of 17 
 
DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS 
 
No State or its subrecipient, including its officers, employees, or agents, shall perform or continue to perform under a 
grant or cooperative agreement, whose objectivity may be impaired because of any related past, present, or currently 
planned interest, financial or otherwise, in organizations regulated by NHTSA or in organizations whose interests may be 
substantially affected by NHTSA activities. Based on this policy: 
 
1. The recipient shall disclose any conflict of interest identified as soon as reasonably possible, making an 
immediate and full disclosure in writing to NHTSA. The disclosure shall include a description of the action 
which the recipient has taken or proposes to take to avoid or mitigate such conflict. 
2. NHTSA will review the disclosure and may require additional relevant information from the recipient. If a conflict 
of interest is found to exist, NHTSA may (a) terminate the award, or (b) determine that it is otherwise in the best 
interest of NHTSA to continue the award and include appropriate provisions to mitigate or avoid such conflict. 
3. Conflicts of interest that require disclosure include all past, present, or currently planned organizational, 
financial, contractual, or other interest(s) with an organization regulated by NHTSA or with an organization 
whose interests may be substantially affected by NHTSA activities, and which are related to this award. The 
interest(s) that require disclosure include those of any recipient, affiliate, proposed consultant, proposed 
subcontractor, and key personnel of any of the above. Past interest shall be limited to within one year of the 
date of award. Key personnel shall include any person owning more than a 20 percent interest in a recipient, 
and the officers, employees or agents of a recipient who are responsible for making a decision or taking an 
action under an award where the decision or action can have an economic or other impact on the interests of a 
regulated or affected organization. 
 
PROHIBITION ON USING GRANT FUNDS TO CHECK FOR HELMET USAGE 
(applies to all subrecipients as well as States) 
The State and each subrecipient will not use 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 grant funds for programs to check helmet usage or to 
create checkpoints that specifically target motorcyclists. 
 
POLICY ON SEAT BELT USE 
In accordance with Executive Order 13043, Increasing Seat Belt Use in the United States, dated April 16, 1997, the 
Grantee is encouraged to adopt and enforce on-the-job seat belt use policies and programs for its employees when 
operating company-owned, rented, or personally-owned vehicles. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 
(NHTSA) is responsible for providing leadership and guidance in support of this Presidential initiative. For information 
and resources on traffic safety programs and policies for employers, please contact the Network of Employers for 
Traffic Safety (NETS), a public-private partnership dedicated to improving the traffic safety practices of employers and 
employees. You can download information on seat belt programs, costs of motor vehicle crashes to employers, and 
other traffic safety initiatives at www.trafficsafety.org. The NHTSA website (www.nhtsa.gov) also provides information 
on statistics, campaigns, and program evaluations and references. 
 
POLICY ON BANNING TEXT MESSAGING WHILE DRIVING 
In accordance with Executive Order 13513, Federal Leadership On Reducing Text Messaging While Driving, and DOT 
Order 3902.10, Text Messaging While Driving, States are encouraged to adopt and enforce workplace safety policies 
to decrease crashes caused by distracted driving, including policies to ban text messaging while driving company-
owned or rented vehicles, Government-owned, leased or rented vehicles, or privately-owned vehicles when on official 
Government business or when performing any work on or behalf of the Government. States are also encouraged to 
conduct workplace safety initiatives in a manner commensurate with the size of the business, such as establishment of 
new rules and programs or re-evaluation of existing programs to prohibit text messaging while driving, and education, 
awareness, and other outreach to employees about the safety risks associated with texting while driving. 
 
74 of 460

--- page 75 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 23-7697
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
November 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Peninsula Clean Energy Solar and Storage on Public Buildings Program – Customer Participation Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Authorize the City Manager to enter into a Customer Participation Agreement with Peninsula Clean Energy to evaluate 
solar potential at City buildings.
BACKGROUND:
Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) is a joint powers authority developed in 2016 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 
providing electricity from clean energy sources. PCE’s Solar and Storage on Public Buildings Program (Program) assists 
cities in evaluating solar potential at municipal facilities. This Program was developed to support PCE’s organizational 
objectives to increase local renewable generation, help reduce customer energy costs, and help its customers achieve their 
sustainability goals.
PCE launched the first round of the Program in 2020. In 2021, PCE and City staff identified the Police Station as the optimal 
site for solar installation. In 2022, City staff had to put this project on hold due to significant and necessary roof repairs at 
the Police Station.
To now participate in the Program, PCE is requesting that the City enter into a Customer Participation Agreement 
(Agreement) to identify additional sites to participate in the second round of the Solar and Storage on Public Buildings 
Program. Through the Agreement, PCE will provide an assessment that identifies and evaluates solar potential at City 
buildings. After this initial facility assessment, the City will have the option to enter into a Power Purchase Agreement 
(PPA) for the design, procurement, installation, and maintenance of solar systems at the identified facilities. The City may 
opt-out of the Program at any time prior to entering into the PPA.
For next steps, City staff will work closely with PCE to evaluate the proposed solar designs, PPA terms, and final pricing. If 
the project is determined to have net savings for the City, the final PPA will be brought to City Council for consideration in 
Spring 2024.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no fiscal impact for entering into the Customer Participation Agreement with Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE). There 
is no upfront cost to the City for entering into the Power Purchase Agreement (PPA). The solar photovoltaic (PV) systems 
are expected to provide utility cost savings over the life of the project. Staff will analyze project-specific details after PCE 
determines final PPA terms and pricing.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
75 of 460

--- page 76 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Customer Participation Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7007
76 of 460

--- page 77 ---
SOLAR + STORAGE ON PUBLIC BUILDINGS
1 of 3
CUSTOMER PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT
Program Overview 
The Peninsula Clean Energy Solar + Storage on Public Buildings program technical assistance to eligible local government 
customers of Peninsula Clean Energy Authority to design and install solar and storage systems.
Program Eligibility
Customer confirms that it is an existing government customer that receives electric utility services from Peninsula Clean 
Energy. Customer agrees to provide full and accurate facility condition, usage data, and other information to Peninsula 
Clean Energy and any of its third-party contractor(s) (Contractor(s)) upon request. Customer also agrees to provide access 
to Peninsula Clean Energy and any Contractor for the purpose of participating in the Program. Peninsula Clean Energy 
utilizes Contractor(s) to support technical activities such as site analysis, interconnection applications, and technical support. 
Contractor(s) shall only be granted access to Customer data as necessary to carry out these activities and any confidential 
information will be returned to Peninsula Clean Energy or destroyed once Contractor has fully performed its Program 
obligations. 
Objective
The purpose of this Customer Participation Agreement is to secure participation in the Assessment Phase of the Program. 
After the customer has enrolled in the Assessment Phase of the Program, Peninsula Clean Energy will provide an 
assessment that will identify and evaluate one or more potential solar and storage systems. Peninsula Clean Energy will 
provide a recommended design and estimated pricing. Based on the design and estimated pricing, Customer will be eligible 
to participate in the Procurement Phase of the Program following the commitment to participate in the Procurement Phase. 
Following the Procurement Phase, Customer will be eligible to move the Installation Phase of the Program wherein the 
system will be deployed. System installation will require the execution of a legally binding Power Purchase Agreement 
(PPA). The PPA will provide for installation of the system and delivery of power with monthly payment for that power to 
Peninsula Clean Energy for the duration of the term, typically twenty (20) years. Prior to executing the PPA, there is no 
obligation for the Customer to participate and Customer may opt-out at any time. 
77 of 460

--- page 78 ---
SOLAR + STORAGE ON PUBLIC BUILDINGS
2 of 3
CUSTOMER PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT
These Standard Terms and Conditions for Participating Customers and the Customer Participation Agreement (collectively, the “Agreement”) are made 
and entered into by and between Peninsula Clean Energy Authority and its contractors, representatives, and agents (collectively, “PCEA”), and Customer 
for the purpose of evaluating solar and storage (“System”) opportunities under the Program funded by PCEA. PCEA may hire third party contractors to 
provide services under this Agreement (the “Contractor”). PCEA and Customer may be referred to in this Agreement individually as a “Party” and 
collectively as the “Parties.” The Parties acknowledge and agree that PCEA and Contractor are third party beneficiaries of this Agreement. In consideration 
of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth below, the adequacy and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereby agree as 
follows:
1.
ACCESS AND PARTICIPATION.  Customer agrees to support PCEA and Contractor and assign a representative to facilitate services provided under 
this Agreement. Customer acknowledges its interest in installing System. Customer agrees to allow PCEA and Contractor to access its facilities, 
energy use data (including authorizing PCEA to share this information with any Contractor) including but not limited to: building level site layout, 
electrical system conditions, historical usage and demand and readings from electrical panels and circuits, structural conditions, and cost information 
for the purposes of implementing this Agreement. Customer represents that by signing this document that they are the legal property owner with 
permission to install System under this Agreement. Customer agrees not to use the name or identifying characteristics of PCEA or its contractors for 
any advertising, sales promotion, or other publicity of any kind without written authorization from PCEA. The Program may be modified or terminated 
without prior notice. 
2.
ELIGIBILITY. PCEA determines eligibility of Customers at its sole discretion. PCEA may request verification of eligibility requirements at any time 
during the Program period. 
3.
CONFIDENTIALITY. PCEA shall keep Customer information confidential. Only Contractor and PCEA shall be granted access to Customer data as 
needed or required. PCEA, Contractor, and Customer agree that all releases necessary to this paragraph will be reviewed and timely executed by 
the parties. 
4.
NO WARRANTY. PCEA MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, AND ASSUME NO LIABILITY WITH RESPECT TO QUALITY, 
SAFETY, PERFORMANCE, OR OTHER ASPECT OF ANY DELIVERABLE PROVIDED PURSUANT TO THIS AGREEMENT AND EXPRESSLY 
DISCLAIM ANY SUCH REPRESENTATION, WARRANTY OR LIABILITY, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NONINFRINGEMENT. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE 
CONSTRUED TO CREATE ANY DUTY TO, ANY STANDARD OF CARE WITH REFERENCE TO, OR ANY LIABILITY TO ANY THIRD PARTY. 
NEITHER THE PCEA NOR PCEA SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR COSTS OR CORRECTIONS OF CONDITIONS ALREADY EXISTING IN THE 
FACILITIES INSPECTED WHICH FAIL TO COMPLY WITH APPLICABLE LAWS AND REGULATIONS. 
5.
INDEMNIFICATION; LIMIT ON LIABILITY. Customer discharges and releases PCEA and its officers, employers, employees, and agents from and 
against any and all claims, demands, liabilities, obligations, damages or chose in action, legal or equitable, of whatever kind or nature, including 
negligence by PCEA, in which Customer, and Customer’s successors in interest, heirs, estates or personal representatives, or family members, now 
may have or assert, or may have had in the past or may have in the future, against PCEA as the result of, based upon, arising out of, or connected 
with PCEA’s involvement with the Assessment Phase. Customer is on notice of and hereby specifically and expressly waives the provisions of 
California Civil Code § 1542, which provides that a “general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist 
in his favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him must have materially affected his settlement with the debtor. NEITHER PCEA 
NOR CUSTOMER SHALL BE LIABLE TO EACH OTHER FOR ANY INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES 
RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT.
6.
MISCELLANEOUS. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed under the laws of the State of California, without regard to conflict of law 
rules. Customer shall not assign, delegate or subcontract this Agreement or its duties thereunder, in whole or in part, voluntarily or involuntarily 
(including a transfer to a receiver or bankruptcy estate) without the prior written permission of PCEA. PCEA may assign its rights and delegate its 
duties under this Agreement to any third party at any time without Customer’s consent. If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable 
in any jurisdiction, the other provisions in this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect in such jurisdiction and shall be liberally construed in 
order to effectuate the purpose and intent of this Agreement. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement in any jurisdiction 
shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any such provision in any other jurisdiction. The failure of either Party to enforce strict performance by 
the other of any provision of this Agreement, or to exercise any right available to the Party under this Agreement, shall not be construed as a waiver 
of such Party’s right to enforce strict performance in the same or any other instance. 
78 of 460

--- page 79 ---
SOLAR + STORAGE ON PUBLIC BUILDINGS
3 of 3
CUSTOMER PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT
Customer
I CERTIFY THAT I have read and understood the Participation Agreement. I certify that the information I have 
provided is true and correct. 
Customer Name: ______________________________ 
Customer Address: ___________________________________________ City: _______________________ 
Customer Representative Name: ______________________________ 
Customer Representative Title: ______________________________ 
Customer Signature: __________________________   Date: _____________
Approved as to Form
City Attorney Name: _____________________________
City Attorney: ________________________________
Peninsula Clean Energy
Name: ________________
Title: ________________
Signature: __________________________   Date: _____________
79 of 460

--- page 80 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4674
File ID: 23-8100
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Transfer Pumps Improvements Project – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Award an agreement to GSW Construction, Inc. for construction of the Transfer Pumps Improvements Project in an 
amount not to exceed $810,400; establish a contingency fund in an amount not to exceed $162,000; and authorize the 
Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the 
contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) is an aging facility, and the Clean Water Program (CWP) includes a variety of 
capital improvement projects to rehabilitate and upgrade the equipment and processes. The Transfer Pumps 
Improvements Project (Project) is a component of the CWP and includes replacing the WWTP’s transfer pumps to support 
anaerobic digester operations. The improvements also include structural improvements to the pump pedestals, piping 
modifications, and electrical improvements. The existing pumps have parts that are currently challenging to source 
replacement parts for since the model is no longer supported by the manufacturer. Replacing the pumps will reduce 
operational risks and future maintenance costs.
In May 2023, the project was first advertised for competitive bids, with only a single bid submitted. That bid of $998,200 
was significantly higher than the engineer’s estimate. On August 21, 2023, Council adopted a Resolution to reject the sole 
bid and authorized a second Notice Inviting Bids. Staff worked with the design engineer to revise the contract documents 
and update the costs to advertise the project again. 
A Notice Inviting Sealed Proposals and Bidding Documents were issued to advertise the Project on September 5, 2023, in 
compliance with Municipal Code section 3.60.030. Five (5) bids were submitted and opened on October 4, 2023, with the 
following results: 
Contractor
Bid Amount ($)
GSW Construction
810,400
Westcal Design and Build
841,000
Valentine Corporation
966,369
Telstar Instruments
1,197,998
Mountain Cascade
1,320,000
GSW Construction submitted the lowest bid of $810,400, which is higher than the engineer’s estimate of $512,750. Staff’s 
review of the submitted bid has determined that the low bidder is responsive and responsible. The costs associated with 
80 of 460

--- page 81 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the electrical improvements of the Project caused the largest cost variance and were the hardest to estimate due to 
market conditions. Since there is available funding to absorb the cost and staff believe pricing will not improve, staff 
recommends for Council to award the agreement to GSW Construction, Inc. for an amount not to exceed $810,400 and 
establish a construction contingency of $162,000. 
Based on staff’s prior experience with projects at the WWTP, the Project presents a higher risk profile than other typical 
City construction contracts. The construction area is surrounded by ongoing WWTP operation and maintenance activities, 
and the on-going construction associated with the WWTP Upgrade & Expansion Project and the Immediate Action 
Projects, Package III. The requested contingency (20% of the construction contract) will allow staff to mitigate the risk that 
changes to the plant operations and other active construction efforts may require of this Project, as well as impacts due to 
unanticipated conditions.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds in the CWP WWTP Annual Major Components (46t090) project to fund this contract and 
contingency.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The City prepared a Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) in accordance with the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (SCH No. 2015032006). Council, on June 6, 2016, certified the PEIR. In accordance with 
CEQA, the Final PEIR serves as the primary environmental compliance document for the implementation of the Clean 
Water Program. The City prepared Addenda to the Final PEIR that was approved on July 16, 2018 (Addendum 1) and April 
15, 2019 (Addendum 2). This work is within the scope of the Project evaluated in the PEIR and Addendum.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement
Att 2 - Bid Summary
STAFF CONTACT
Deryk Daquigan, Acting Public Works Deputy Director
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7287
Brad Underwood, Director of Public Works
bunderwood@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7303
81 of 460

--- page 82 ---
Transfer Pumps Improvements Project 
46T090 
HDR ENGINEERING, INC.
AUGUST 30, 2023 
AGREEMENT 
PAGE - 1 
SECTION 00 50 00 
AGREEMENT 
THIS AGREEMENT is by and between the City of San Mateo (Owner) 
and 
(Contractor). 
Owner and Contractor, in consideration of the mutual covenants set 
forth herein, agree as follows: 
1.
WORK
1.1. 
Contractor shall complete the Work as specified or indicated in the Contract 
Documents. The Work is generally described as follows and as described in Section 01 22 
00- Measurement and Payment.
1.1.1. Mobilization and Demobilization including activities listed in Section 01 22 00. 
1.1.2. Temporary Facilities and Fencing including space for storing four new Owner 
furnished pumps and Contractor’s staff. 
1.1.3. Pump, Anchor and Piping Demolition  including demolition of four existing 
progressive cavity pumps, cutting pump skid anchors at concrete pump pads, and removing 
and disposal of existing piping..  
1.1.4. Pump Installation including installation of four Owner furnished pumps, anchorage 
of pump bases to existing concrete pads, and connection to new piping. 
1.1.5. Piping Improvements, including Fittings and Insulation   including new ductile 
iron piping and accessories on the suction and discharges of four pumps, insulation and 
jackets on new piping. 
1.1.6. Electrical Improvements including new conductors and conduits for the new pumps 
for power and instrumentation, four new variable frequency drives for the new pumps.. 
1.1.7. Insulation on existing piping Alternate A including new insulation and jackets for 
the existing piping as shown on the drawings. 
1.1.8.  General Construction, not included in the base bid items includes all work not 
categorized in Bid Items 1 through 7 in the bid form. 
2.
THE PROJECT
2.1. 
The Project for which the Work under the Contract Documents may be the whole or 
only a part is generally described as follows 
GSW Construction Inc.
82 of 460

--- page 83 ---
Transfer Pumps Improvements Project 
 46T090 
AGREEMENT
HDR ENGINEERING, INC.
PAGE - 2 
  AUGUST 30, 2023 
2.1.1. Transfer Pumps Improvements Project 
3.
ENGINEER
3.1. 
Engineer means the licensed Engineer and its consultants, retained by the Owner to 
perform design services for the Project.  
4.
CONTRACT TIMES
4.1. 
Time of the Essence: Time limits for Phases, if any, Substantial Completion, and 
completion and readiness for final payment as stated in the Contract Documents are of the 
essence of the Contract. 
4.2. 
Days to Achieve Substantial Completion and Final Payment: 
4.3. 
There shall be two Notice(s) to Proceed and two Phases. Notice to Proceed 1 (NTP 1) 
shall initiate the procurement of equipment shown in paragraphs 10.1.1 and 10.1.2 (Phase 1) 
and Notice to Proceed 2 (NTP 2) shall initiate the phase for completion of the Work (Phase 
2). Procurement of equipment (Phase 1) shall be completed within 80 Working Days from 
the Notice to Proceed 1 and from the date when the Contract Times commence to run as 
provided in Paragraph 2.03 of the General Conditions. Notice to Proceed 2 shall be 60 
Working Days from Notice to Proceed 1. The Work (Phase 2) shall be substantially 
completed (Substantial Completion) within 80 Working Days and 40 Working Days  (for 
Final Completion) of Notice to Proceed 2, and completed and ready for final payment in 
accordance with Paragraph 14.07 of the General Conditions.  Total duration from Notice to 
Proceed 1 through Notice to Proceed 2 completion of all Work and Final Completion & 
Acceptance shall be within 180 Working Days. 
4.3.1. Phase 1 (Equipment and Piping Procurement): 
4.3.1.1. Review and acceptance by the Engineer of product data and shop drawing submittals, 
delivery and acceptance of the equipment on the site for the following equipment: 
4.3.1.1.1. 
Variable Frequency Drives (VFDs). 
4.3.1.1.2. 
Ductile iron piping and fittings. 
4.3.1.2. Written certification by the Contractor of release for manufacturing of the following 
equipment during the procurement period: 
4.3.1.2.1. 
Variable Frequency Drives (VFDs). 
4.3.1.2.2. 
Ductile iron piping and fittings. 
4.3.2. Phase 2 (Mobilization and Construction of Project): 
83 of 460

--- page 84 ---
Transfer Pumps Improvements Project 
46T090 
HDR ENGINEERING, INC.
AUGUST 30, 2023 
AGREEMENT 
PAGE - 3 
4.3.2.1.  Mobilization: Onsite mobilization including protection of areas of the building to be 
occupied during construction, principally space which will remain occupied during 
construction. 
4.3.2.2.  Project Construction: Proceed with the construction of the Project improvements, in 
accordance with these Contract Documents. 
4.4. 
Liquidated Damages: 
4.4.1. Contractor and Owner recognize that time is of the essence of this Agreement and 
that Owner will suffer financial loss if the Work is not completed within the times specified 
in Paragraph Contract Times above, plus any extensions thereof allowed in accordance with 
Article 11 of the General Conditions. The parties also recognize the delays, expense, and 
difficulties involved in proving in a legal or arbitration proceeding the actual loss suffered by 
Owner if the Work is not completed on time. Accordingly, instead of requiring any such 
proof, Owner and Contractor agree that as liquidated damages for delay (but not as a penalty) 
Contractor shall pay Owner the sum of $500 per day in excess of the number of Working 
Days prescribed above for each and every Working Day’s delay in completing Phase 1 and 
$3,000 for each day that expires after the time specified herein for Substantial Completion 
until the Work is substantially complete for Phase 2. 
4.4.2. After Substantial Completion, if Contractor neglects, refuses, or fails to complete 
remaining Work within the Contract Time or any proper extension thereof granted by Owner, 
Contractor shall pay Owner $3,000 for each day that expires after the time specified herein 
for completion and readiness for final payment until the Work of Phase 2 is completed and 
ready for final payment. 
5.
CONTRACT PRICE
5.1. 
For all Work, at the prices stated in Contractor’s Bid, incorporated herein by 
reference, a lump sum of $  
. 
6.
PAYMENT PROCEDURES
6.1. 
Submittal and Processing of Payments: Contractor shall submit Applications for 
Payment in accordance with Article 15 of the General Conditions. Applications for Payment 
will be processed by Engineer as provided in the General Conditions. 
6.2. 
Progress Payments and Retainage: Owner will make progress payments on account of 
the Contract Price on the basis of Contractor’s Application for Payment on the date of each 
month as established in the preconstruction conference during performance of the Work as 
provided herein. All such payments will be measured by the Schedule of Values established 
as provided in Paragraph 2.05 of the General Conditions (and in the case of Unit Price Work 
based on the number of units completed) or, in the event there is no Schedule of Values, as 
provided in the General Requirements. 
810,400.00
84 of 460

--- page 85 ---
Transfer Pumps Improvements Project 
 46T090 
AGREEMENT
HDR ENGINEERING, INC.
PAGE - 4 
  AUGUST 30, 2023 
6.2.1. Prior to Substantial Completion, progress payments will be made in an amount equal 
to the percentage indicated below but, in each case, less the aggregate of payments 
previously made and less such amounts as Engineer may determine or Owner may withhold, 
including but not limited to liquidated damages, in accordance with Paragraph 15.01 of the 
General Conditions: 
6.2.1.1.Ninety five percent of Work completed (with the balance being retainage). If the 
Work has been 50 percent completed as determined by Engineer, and if the character and 
progress of the Work have been satisfactory to Owner and Engineer, Owner, on 
recommendation of Engineer, may determine that as long as the character and progress of the 
Work remain satisfactory to them, there will be no additional retainage; and 
6.2.1.2.Ninety five percent of cost of materials and equipment not incorporated in the Work 
(with the balance being retainage). 
6.2.2. Contractor may elect to substitute securities of equivalent value in accordance with 
requirements and procedures of Sections 22300 or 10263 of the California Public Contract 
Code. 
6.3. 
Final Payment: 
6.3.1. Upon final completion and acceptance of the Work in accordance with 
Paragraph 15.06 of the General Conditions, Owner will pay the remainder of the Contract 
Price as recommended by Engineer as provided in Paragraph 15.06. 
7.
INTEREST
7.1. 
Monies not paid when due as provided in Article 15 of the General Conditions shall 
bear interest at the legal rate unless otherwise specified according to California law. 
8.
CONTRACTOR’S REPRESENTATIONS
8.1. 
In order to induce Owner to enter into this Agreement, Contractor makes the 
following representations: 
8.1.1. Contractor has examined and carefully studied the Contract Documents and the other 
related data identified in the Bidding Documents. 
8.1.2. Contractor has visited the Site and become familiar with and is satisfied as to the 
general, local, and Site conditions that may affect cost, progress, and performance of the 
Work. 
8.1.3. Contractor is familiar with and is satisfied as to all federal, state, and local Laws and 
Regulations that may affect cost, progress, and performance of the Work. 
85 of 460

--- page 86 ---
Transfer Pumps Improvements Project 
46T090 
HDR ENGINEERING, INC.
AUGUST 30, 2023 
AGREEMENT 
PAGE - 5 
8.1.4. Contractor has carefully studied: (1) reports of explorations and tests of subsurface 
conditions at or contiguous to the Site and drawings of physical conditions relating to 
existing surface or subsurface structures at the Site (except Underground Facilities), if any, 
which have been identified in Paragraph 
8.1.5. Paragraph 5.03 of the Supplementary Conditions as containing reliable “technical 
data”, and (2) reports and drawings of Hazardous Environmental Conditions, if any, at the 
Site which have been identified in Paragraph 5.06 of the Supplementary Conditions as 
containing reliable “technical data.” 
8.1.6. Contractor has considered the information known to Contractor; information 
commonly known to contractors doing business in the locality of the Site; information and 
observations obtained from visits to the Site; the Contract Documents; and Site-related 
reports and drawings identified in the Contract Documents, with respect to the effect of such 
information, observations, and documents on 1) the cost, progress, and performance of the 
Work; 2) the means, methods, techniques, sequences, and procedures of construction to be 
employed by Contractor, including any specific means, methods, techniques, sequences, and 
procedures of construction expressly required by the Contract Documents; and 3) 
Contractor’s safety precautions and programs. 
8.1.7. Based on the information and observations referred to above, Contractor does not 
consider that any further examinations, investigations, explorations, tests, studies, or data are 
necessary for the performance of the Work at the Contract Price, within the Contract Times, 
and in accordance with the other terms and conditions of the Contract Documents. 
8.1.8. Contractor is aware of the general nature of work to be performed by Owner and 
others at the Site that relates to the Work as indicated in the Contract Documents. 
8.1.9. Contractor has given Engineer written notice of conflicts, errors, ambiguities, or 
discrepancies that Contractor has discovered in the Contract Documents, and the written 
resolution thereof by Engineer is acceptable to Contractor. 
8.1.10. The Contract Documents are generally sufficient to indicate and convey 
understanding of terms and conditions for performance and furnishing of the Work. 
8.1.11. Contractor’s entry in to this Contract constitutes an incontrovertible representation by 
Contractor that without exception, all prices in the Agreement are premised upon performing 
and furnishing the Work required by the Contract Documents. 
9.
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
9.1. 
Contents: 
9.1.1. The Contract Documents consist of the following: 
9.1.1.1.This Agreement (pages 1 to 8, inclusive). 
86 of 460

--- page 87 ---
Transfer Pumps Improvements Project 
 46T090 
AGREEMENT
HDR ENGINEERING, INC.
PAGE - 6 
  AUGUST 30, 2023 
9.1.1.2.Performance bond (pages 1 to 4, inclusive). 
9.1.1.3.Payment bond (pages 1 to 4, inclusive). 
9.1.1.4.General Conditions (pages 1 to 52, inclusive). 
9.1.1.5.Supplementary Conditions (pages 1 to 46, inclusive). 
9.1.1.6.Specifications as listed in the table of contents of the Project Manual. 
9.1.1.7.Drawings consisting of 12 Sheets in Drawing Set sheets with each sheet bearing the 
following general title: “TRANSFER PUMPS IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT”. 
9.1.1.8.Addenda (numbers 
to  
, inclusive). 
9.1.2. The following which may be delivered or issued on or after the Effective Date of the 
Agreement and are not attached hereto: 
9.1.2.1.Notice to Proceed (pages 
to  
, inclusive). 
9.1.2.2.Work Change Directives. 
9.1.2.3.Change Order(s). 
9.2. 
There are no Contract Documents other than those listed above in this Article. 
9.3. 
The Contract Documents may only be amended, modified, or supplemented as 
provided in Paragraph 3.04 of the General Conditions. 
10.
MISCELLANEOUS
10.1. Terms used in this Agreement will have the meanings stated in the General 
Conditions and the Supplementary Conditions. 
10.1.1. Successors and Assigns: Owner and Contractor each binds itself, its partners, 
successors, assigns, and legal representatives to the other party hereto, its partners, 
successors, assigns, and legal representatives in respect to all covenants, agreements, and 
obligations contained in the Contract Documents. 
10.1.2. Severability: Any provision or part of the Contract Documents held to be void or 
unenforceable under any Law or Regulation shall be deemed stricken, and remaining 
provisions shall continue to be valid and binding upon Owner and Contractor, who agree the 
Contract Documents shall be reformed to replace such stricken provision or part thereof with 
a valid and enforceable provision that comes as close as possible to expressing the intention 
of the stricken provision. 
10.1.3. Assignment of Contract: 
1       1
87 of 460

--- page 88 ---
Transfer Pumps Improvements Project 
46T090 
HDR ENGINEERING, INC.
AUGUST 30, 2023 
AGREEMENT
PAGE - 7 
10.1.3.1. 
No assignment by a party hereto of any rights under or interests in the 
Contract shall be binding on another party hereto without the written consent of the party 
sought to be bound; and, specifically but without limitation, monies that may become due 
and monies that are due may not be assigned without such consent (except to the extent that 
the effect of this restriction may be limited by law), and unless specifically stated to the 
contrary in any written consent to an assignment, no assignment shall release or discharge 
the assignor from any duty or responsibility under the Contract Documents. 
10.2. Contractor’s Certifications: 
10.2.1. Contractor certifies that it has not engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or 
coercive practices in competing for or in executing the Contract. For the purposes of this 
paragraph: 
10.2.1.1. 
“corrupt practice” means the offering, giving, receiving, or soliciting of 
anything of value likely to influence the action of a public official in the bidding process or 
in Contract execution; 
10.2.1.2. 
“fraudulent practice” means an intentional misrepresentation of facts made (a) 
to influence the bidding process or the execution of the Contract to the detriment of Owner, 
(b) to establish Bid or Contract Price at artificial noncompetitive levels, or (c) to deprive
Owner of the benefits of free and open competition;
10.2.1.3. 
“collusive practice” means a scheme or arrangement between two or more 
Bidders, with or without the knowledge of Owner, a purpose of which is to establish Bid 
prices at artificial, noncompetitive levels; and 
10.2.1.4. 
“coercive practice” means harming or threatening to harm, directly or 
indirectly, persons or their property to influence their participation in the bidding process or 
affect the execution of the Contract. 
10.3. Attorney Fees: 
10.3.1. Attorney fees in amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and in total amount 
not exceeding $5,000, shall be recoverable as costs (that is, by the filing of a cost bill) by the 
prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Contract.  The 
above $5,000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals or 
actions. It is the intent that neither party to this Contract shall have to pay the other more than 
$5,000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions, to enforce the provisions of this 
Contract. The parties expect and hope there will be no litigation and that any differences will 
be resolved amicably. 
10.4. In accordance with Section 1775, California Labor Code, Contractor shall forfeit to 
Owner, as a penalty, not more than $50 for each calendar day, or portion thereof, for each 
88 of 460

--- page 89 ---
Transfer Pumps Improvements Project 
 46T090 
AGREEMENT
HDR ENGINEERING, INC.
PAGE - 8 
  AUGUST 30, 2023 
worker paid, either by Contractor or any subcontractor, less than the prevailing rates as 
determined by the Director of California Department of Industrial Relations for the Work. 
10.5. Contractor Registration: 
10.5.1. Project is subject to compliance monitoring and enforcement by the California 
Department of Industrial Relations (DIR). 
10.6. In the performance of the Work, a day’s work shall be 8 hours of labor in any 
workday and 40 hours in any work week and any other work as required by Section 510, 
California Labor Code, and Contractor shall further conform to the requirements of 
Section 1813, California Labor Code, or forfeit to Owner, as a penalty, the sum of $25 for 
each worker employed in the execution of the Work by Contractor or any subcontractor, for 
each day during which any worker is required or permitted to labor more than 8 hours in any 
workday or more than 40 hours in any 1 calendar week in violation of Section 510. 
10.7. Contractor shall carry workers' compensation insurance and require subcontractors to 
carry workers' compensation insurance as required by Section 3700, California Labor Code. 
10.8. Pursuant to California Labor Code Section 6705, excavation of any trench or trenches 
5 feet or more in depth, involving estimated expenditures in excess of $25,000 shall require, 
in advance of excavation, a detailed plan showing the design of shoring, bracing, sloping or 
other provisions to be made for worker protection prepared by a registered civil or structural 
engineer. 
10.9. Pursuant to Section 1770 et seq., California Labor Code, the successful Bidder shall 
pay not less than the prevailing rate of per diem wages as determined by the Director of 
California Department of Industrial Relations. A copy of such prevailing rate is on file at the 
offices of the Owner, which copy will be made available for examination during business 
hours to any party on request.  
10.10. Contractor, by signing this Agreement, certifies the following: “I am aware of the 
provisions of Section 3700 of the Labor Code which require every employer to be insured 
against liability for workers’ compensation or to undertake self-insurance in accordance with 
the provisions of that code, and I will comply with such provisions before commencing the 
performance of the Work of this Contract.” 
10.11. Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent Contractor or any Subcontractor from 
employing properly registered apprentices in the execution of the Agreement. Contractor 
shall have responsibility for compliance with California Labor Code Section 1777.5 for all 
apprenticeable occupations. 
10.12. During the performance of Work under this Agreement, Contractor and its 
Subcontractors shall not unlawfully discriminate against any employee or applicant for 
employment because of race, religion, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, 
medical condition, marital status, age (over 40) or sex. Contractors and Subcontractors shall 
89 of 460

--- page 90 ---
Transfer Pumps Improvements Project 
46T090 
HDR ENGINEERING, INC.
AUGUST 30, 2023 
AGREEMENT
PAGE - 9 
insure that the evaluation and treatment of their employees and applicants for employment 
are free of such discrimination. Contractors and Subcontractors shall comply with the 
provisions of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (Gov. Code, § 12900 et seq.) and the 
applicable regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11000 et seq.). The 
applicable regulations of the Fair Employment and Housing Council implementing 
Government Code section 12990, set forth in Subchapter 5 of Division 4.1 of Title 2 of the 
California Code of Regulations are incorporated into this contract by reference and made a 
part hereof as if set forth in full. Contractor and its Subcontractors shall give written notice of 
their obligations under this clause to labor organizations with which they have a collective 
bargaining or other agreement.
90 of 460

--- page 91 ---
Transfer Pumps Improvements Project 
 46T090 
AGREEMENT 
HDR ENGINEERING, INC. 
PAGE - 10 
AUGUST 24, 2023 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Owner and Contractor have signed this Agreement in triplicate. One 
counterpart each has been delivered to Owner, Contractor, and Engineer. All portions of the 
Contract Documents have been signed or identified by Owner and Contractor or on their behalf. 
This Agreement will be effective on __________________ (which is the Effective Date of the 
Agreement). 
CITY OF SAN MATEO: 
CONTRACTOR: 
    Date 
Date 
Brad B. Underwood  
Interim Public Works Director 
APPROVED AS TO FORM:  
Jeffrey Ward
President
Its Authorized Agent 
ATTEST: 
Linh P. Nguyen 
    Date 
Date 
Assistant City Attorney 
Cody Gunning
Corporate Secretary 
Address for giving notices: 
License No. 
(Where applicable) 
Agent for service or process: 
(If Contractor is a corporation, a partnership, 
or a joint venture, attach evidence of 
authority to sign.) 
END OF SECTION 
101 The Embarcadero, #123
San Francisco, CA 94105
1085562
91 of 460

--- page 92 ---
r

BID RESULTS -

Date of Bid Opening: | October 4, 2023 a

Project Title: | Transfer Pump Improvements Project

we

Person Opening Bids: | Deryk Daquigan, Engineering Manager

CloiIq Vista tyovec}
acvowE Nte A 9S?
alentine Cor p-
(Li “Pelico W
OW Qa ae. cn

p.0. Kay 6050 Bi
Lwev more cA

S FOVICISCO \CA) THIS -

QApw\PWENG\A_CONTRACTS\2023\WWTP Transfer Pumps\REBID\RESULTS.doc

92 of 460


--- page 93 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4674
File ID: 23-8101
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Dale Avenue Pumping Station Upgrade – Contingency Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an increase to the contingency reserve associated with the Anvil Builders, Inc. construction contract for the Dale 
Avenue Pumping Station Upgrade project in the amount of $2,000,000 for a total contingency of $7,500,000; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to issue change orders within the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The Clean Water Program includes various projects to improve the City of San Mateo’s sanitary sewer system to improve 
flow management and increase capacity to prevent sanitary sewer overflows. Included in the Basins 2 and 3 project is the 
upgrade of the Dale Avenue Pump Station (DAPS or Project), which consists of the replacement of mechanical, electrical, 
and instrumentation equipment in the pump station, along with other upgrades and an increase in the pump station 
capacity.
On October 7, 2019, City Council awarded an agreement with Anvil Builders, Inc. (Anvil) for construction of the DAPS 
Upgrade project in the amount of $20,142,000; established a contingency reserve of $2,000,000; and authorized the Public 
Works Director to execute the agreement and issue change orders within the contingency amount. The contingency 
reserve was established to address and mitigate potential unknowns that may arise during construction and was 
approximately 10% of the agreement value. 
On September 6, 2022, an increase to the contingency reserve in the amount of $3,500,000 was approved by City Council 
to bring the total contingency reserve to $5,500,000. To date, approximately $3.5 million of the approved contingency has 
been utilized to issue necessary negotiated change orders for the Project leaving $2.0 million in contingency funds to 
complete the Project.  A summary of the executed contract change orders is included in Attachment 1. 
The Project has encountered challenges during construction and additional work including, but not limited to, installing an 
emergency generator and associated electrical, mechanical, civil, and structural improvements are required to complete 
the work.  Anvil has submitted a change order proposal for $2.73 million to address the required emergency generator 
changes on the Project.  Staff is currently evaluating the emergency generator proposal and other changes to the Project, 
and continues to negotiate with Anvil.  
Although the scope and fees associated with the project’s remaining work are still being negotiated between Anvil and 
staff, the remaining contingency balance of $2.0 million is insufficient to execute change orders required to complete the 
work and Project.  In addition to the emergency generator installation proposal, described above, additional contract 
change orders are required and are in negotiation. For example, conditions of approval from the Planning Division in 
connection with Site Plan and Architectural Approval for the Project required screening of the generator from adjacent 
93 of 460

--- page 94 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
residential properties. This requires additional landscaping near the fence lines of the property. In addition, there are 
remaining safety and equipment protection improvements, and extended overhead costs that require contract cost 
increases as well. All change orders will be thoroughly reviewed by Public Works staff as well as the Construction Manager 
consultant prior to recommending approval to the “Clean Water Program Change Board.” The CWP Change Board is made 
up of the Director of Public Works, Deputy Director of Public Works, and Program Manager Advisor (Jacobs), and provides 
an additional vetting process to review proposed change orders and provide final approval to utilize contingency reserves. 
To mitigate risks associated with potential delays, streamline procurements, and to provide flexibility for staff to negotiate 
and execute contract change orders in a timely manner, staff recommends increasing the contingency reserve by an 
additional $2,000,000 for a total contingency reserve of $7,500,000. 
An alternative to approving the recommended contingency increase is directing staff to finalize negotiations of the 
potential contract change orders, then requesting City Council to approve the contract change orders at a later City Council 
meeting (likely in January 2024). This alternate approach will result in additional delays and extended overhead costs, 
since Anvil will not start work until a contract change order is executed. With the wet weather season approaching, there 
is urgency to have the contractor to begin work to install the foundation and underground conduits to avoid weather 
delays and have the foundation ready for arrival of the generator. Staff does not recommend this approach due to the 
added costs and risks associated with not having a permanent generator installed on a critical facility during the wet 
weather season.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The initial authorized agreement with Anvil for construction was in the amount of $20,142,000. The original contingency 
reserve established was $2,000,000 and a subsequent increase was approved for $3,500,000. This request increases the 
contingency further by $2,000,000 to a total of $7,500,000. This increase brings the potential total project cost to 
$27,642,000. Funding for this additional contingency amount is available within the Basins 2 & 3 Collection System 
Improvements (46s003) project.  
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The work addressed by this administrative report is being undertaken to support the Clean Water Program. This project is 
subject to the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the general components of which are 
included as part of the Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) (SCH No. 201532006) that was 
prepared for the Clean Water Program. The Final PEIR was certified by City Council on June 6, 2016.  
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Dale Ave Pump Station Improvements – Contract Change Order Summary
STAFF CONTACT
Tom Williams, Acting Engineering Manager
twilliams@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7307
Deryk Daquigan, Acting Public Works Deputy Director 
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7287
94 of 460

--- page 95 ---
Att 1 - Dale Ave Pump Station Improvements - Anvil Builders - Contract Change Order Summary (as of 10/27/2023)
CCO #
Execution 
Date
Price
Details of Change
1
6/25/2020
34,336.13
$         
Provide two new surge tanks for operation under full vacuum conditions
2
11/12/2020
143,160.81
$      
Add lifting handles to metal plates; elevator cost split; 36" pipe connections to wetwells; and RCP 
force main coupling
3
2/8/2021
413,991.93
$      
Force main and influent junction box shutdowns and plug installations; and force main dewatering
4
4/7/2021
39,973.38
$         
4 month power fluctuation monitoring to determine if there are impacts to pump operations
5
7/20/2021
429,433.45
$      
SCADA hardware modifications; Force main #1 groundwater and pipe liquid mitigation; Force Main 
#2 joint pressure test; Force Main liner access pit relocations; Elevator cab modifications; 
switchboard surge protection device; grit cleanup; sump pump relocation; slide gate plate; force 
main wall penetration; and wet well crack repair
6
10/25/2021
225,359.53
$      
HVAC monitoring panel, horn, strobe, pressure switches, and control wires
7
4/19/2022
37,369.00
$         
PLC upgrades, programming, and control wiring modifications to correct pump stop logic
8
4/19/2022
228,176.24
$      
Sump pump conduit wiring; HVAC redesign; and force main 1 pipe conflicts
9
5/4/2022
95,251.54
$         
Fiber connection change; surge tank demo of underground vault for pile construction; wet well crack 
repair; street light repair; sump pump guide rails; antenna transmission capabilities; and infill plates
10
7/11/2022
162,843.78
$      
Temporary generator through June 2022 due to Air District Permit issue with permanent generator
11
9/26/2022
188,747.97
$      
Work hour waiver; antenna pole; temporary generator; smith blair grout packing; pipe lining delay 
charges; fan reconfiguration; force main penetration leaks; electrical changes; and SCADA antenna 
conduit
12
11/13/2022
202,693.78
$      
Reroute MCC wires; flowmeter install; exhaust beam supports; temporary generator extension; 
additional structural calculations for elevator; emergency feeder conduit/roof drain; UPS power 
monitoring; gas monitoring system repair; jacket water heaters; stairway light switches; generator 
silencer; rotating valves bonnets; and elevator abandonment
13
11/13/2022
1,115,403.92
$   
Tier 4 generator procurement, shipping, assembly, emmission abatement equipment, wiring, 
controls, and submittals
14
7/30/2023
46,209.60
$         
MAS Devicenet modifications; cover elevator openings; weather tower radio conduit removal; 
elevator pit leak repair; old gas sensor replacement; air compressor repair service; temporary 
generator swap; elevator equipment removal and de-scoping; and air compressor block heater 
install
15
10/23/2023
55,159.58
$         
Generator parapet enclosure; and pump drain bleed valve install
16
10/23/2023
39,734.00
$         
Elevator electrical changes
TOTAL
3,457,844.64
$   
95 of 460

--- page 96 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4662
File ID: 23-8105
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Citywide Street Reconstruction Phase 3 – Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 7 to the agreement with Wilsey Ham for engineering services during construction in an amount 
not to exceed $21,000 for a new agreement total of $594,874; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the 
amendment in substantially the form presented. 
BACKGROUND:
In September 2021, the City Council approved an agreement with Wilsey Ham to provide design services for the Citywide 
Street Reconstruction Phase 3 Project (Project) in the amount of $354,000, with a contingency reserve in the amount of 
$41,000. Amendments No. 1, 2, and 3 to the agreement were issued for additional design services on the Project utilizing 
available contingency reserve, consistent with the authority granted by City Council. Currently, $40,874 of the contingency 
reserve has been expended with $126 of the contingency reserve remaining. City Council approved Amendments No. 4 
(July 18, 2022) and No. 5 (June 20, 2023) to the agreement to provide additional engineering services during construction. 
Amendment No. 6 was subsequently issued to correct the scope of work of Amendment No. 5 to reflect the actual scope 
of work intended for Amendment No. 5 as the incorrect scope of work was included in Amendment No. 5 due to a clerical 
error.
In June 2023, the Project’s contractor, Teichert Construction (Teichert), began reconstruction of all streets in the Project 
and was successful on seven of the nine streets. During the reconstruction effort on Hawthorne Drive and Guildford 
Avenue, several subgrade failures occurred due to unanticipated extreme soft soil/Bay mud conditions. During the 
operation, City staff stopped the operation in order to re-evaluate existing conditions and to develop new reconstruction 
designs for both Hawthorne Drive and Guildford Avenue to minimize further damage to the existing streets. 
 
To complete the road reconstruction effort on Hawthorne Drive and Guildford Avenue, Wilsey Ham and its geotechnical 
subconsultant, Fugro, supported City staff in reviewing technical submittals, developing responses to Teichert’s Requests 
for Information (RFIs), and performing additional in-field geotechnical inspection services. Based on the above, staff 
recommends that a not-to-exceed amount of $21,000 be added to the agreement to cover the additional in-field 
geotechnical inspection services, for a total agreement amount of $594,874. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the Citywide Street Reconstruction Package 1/Citywide Street Reconstruction Phase 3 to 
award this agreement.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
96 of 460

--- page 97 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Amendment No. 7
STAFF CONTACT
Stephanie Piñon, Senior Engineer
spinon@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7315
97 of 460

--- page 98 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 1 of 2
Rev 9/17
AMENDMENT NO. 7 TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND
WILSEY HAM FOR
PROFESSIONAL DESIGN SERVICES FOR STREET RECONSTRUCTION PHASE 3
(#467771-4600-0006-46250)
($354,000 [Original Amount], $24,980 [Amendment 1], $9,485 [Amendment 2], 
$6,409 [Amendment 3], $134,000 [Amendment 4], $45,000 [Amendment 5], 
$0 [Amendment 6], and $21,000 [Amendment 7])
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
Wilsey Ham, a corporation (“Consultant”), entered into an Agreement for Professional Design Services 
for Street Reconstruction Phase 3 (“Agreement”) on September 27, 2021; and
WHEREAS, City and Consultant wish to amend the Agreement to modify scope and 
compensation for the services as described and to add Exhibit A-7.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.
Section 1 “Scope of Services” of the Agreement is amended to read:
“The scope of service to be performed by Consultant under this agreement is as 
described in Exhibits A, A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4, A-6, and A-7 to this Agreement, attached and 
incorporated by reference.”
2.
Section 5 “Payment” of the Agreement is amended to read:
“Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a
payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed. In
consideration for the full performance of the services set forth in Exhibits A, A-1, A-2, A-
3, A-4, A-6, and A-7, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee, on a time and expenses 
reimbursement basis, in an amount not to exceed $594,874, pursuant to rates stated in 
Exhibits A, A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4, A-6, and A-7 and B to this Agreement, attached and 
incorporated by reference.”
3.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
98 of 460

--- page 99 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 2 of 2
Rev 9/17
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Wilsey Ham have executed this Amendment No. 7 on 
__________________________.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
Brad B. Underwood
Interim Public Works Director
Brandon Davis
President 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) 
Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below.
99 of 460

--- page 100 ---
EXHIBIT A-7
SCOPE OF SERVICES
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
CONSULTANT is providing Engineering Services During Construction (ESDC) for the Citywide Street 
Reconstruction Project, Phase 3 which is part of the City’s Smooth Streets Program (SSP). During 
construction, differing site conditions were encountered and the City desires to expand the 
CONSULTANT’s scope of services to include additional field site visits. 
SCOPE OF WORK
Task 1 – Construction Services
The following additional work is included in this task:
•
Mix design submittal reviews 
•
Project correspondence 
•
City and design team coordination 
•
Design team meeting attendance 
•
Weekly construction coordination meeting attendance
•
Three (3) ten-hour site visits, including travel time
•
Review field reports
•
Review one additional submittal
•
Provide administrative technical support for document preparation
Deliverables: Review of construction materials submittals and responses to RFI’s in PDF format. Daily 
Field Reports provided by Fugro (geotechnical sub-consultant). 
Assumptions and Exclusions
The following assumptions and exclusions were used in the preparation of this proposal:
1. Any design coordination meetings will be attended virtually (video or phone).
2. Items not included in the scope above are excluded.
3. If conditions encountered during construction differ from those anticipated, the estimated total 
number of hours on site may need to be adjusted during construction.
SCHEDULE
CONSULTANT will provide the scope of services described above on a mutually agreeable schedule.
100 of 460

--- page 101 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4674
File ID: 23-8107
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Construction Special Inspection Services for the Clean Water Program – Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 2 for professional services with Signet Testing Laboratories, Inc. to provide as-needed 
construction special inspection services for various Clean Water Program projects; increase the agreement amount by 
$250,000 for a revised not to exceed total of $2,150,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the 
amendment in substantially the form presented and issue project-specific task orders under the agreement. 
BACKGROUND:
The Clean Water program (CWP) includes improvements to wastewater system capacity, flow management, and inflow 
and infiltration reduction to comply with regulatory requirements. Construction special inspection services provide as-
needed support for the CWP’s improvements, which include the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) Upgrade & 
Expansion, various new capacity relief sewers, sewer rehabilitations/repairs, and lift station improvements.
On February 22, 2022, the City Council approved a two-year professional services agreement with Signet Testing 
Laboratories, Inc. (Signet), to provide as-needed construction special inspection services for various CWP projects in an 
amount not to exceed $1,500,000 with three, one-year options to extend the agreement with not to exceed budgets of 
$250,000 per each extension year at the City’s discretion. 
On March 20, 2023, City Council approved Amendment No. 1 to the agreement, which increased the agreement amount 
by $400,000 to a revised amount of $1,900,000. During the past year, the rate at which construction special inspection 
services were needed exceeded projections. The services included inspecting the application of protective coating on the 
concrete surfaces of the basins and channels at the WWTP. In order to keep the project from experiencing significant 
delays, the contractor worked on Saturdays to apply this protective coating. The overtime cost for weekend inspections 
was not originally anticipated. 
Signet has been performing these construction special inspection services satisfactorily for the City. In order to complete 
the remaining inspections for the CWP projects, continued special inspection services from Signet are required during the 
original term of the agreement. Proposed Amendment No. 2 will increase the agreement budget by $250,000 for a revised 
not to exceed total agreement amount of $2,150,000 for the original term of the agreement.  Staff believes this to be a 
reasonable budget increase for the scope of work and expertise required and recommends approval of Amendment No. 2 
to this agreement.  The City maintains its three, one-year options to extend the agreement with not to exceed budgets of 
$250,000 per each extension.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds available for this amendment in the budgets of the CWP projects for which special inspections 
101 of 460

--- page 102 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
are required.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The City prepared a Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) in accordance with the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (SCH No. 2015032006). The PEIR was certified by the Council on June 6, 2016.  In 
accordance with CEQA, the Final PEIR serves as the primary environmental compliance document for implementation of 
the Clean Water Program. The City prepared Addenda to the Final PEIR that was approved on July 16, 2018 (Addendum 1) 
and April 15, 2019 (Addendum 2). This work is within the scope of the project evaluated in the PEIR and Addendum.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Amendment No. 2
STAFF CONTACT
Thomas Ruark, Senior Project Manager
truark@citytofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7280
Matt Fabry, Deputy Director
mfabry@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7309
102 of 460

--- page 103 ---
AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO THE AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND SIGNET TESTING LABORATORIES, INC.
 FOR CONSTRUCTION SPECIAL INSPECTION SERVICES FOR THE CLEAN WATER PROGRAM
($1,500,000 [Original Amount] / $400,000 [Amendment No. 1] /
$250,000 [Amendment No. 2] 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
Signet Testing Laboratories, Inc. (“CONSULTANT”), entered into an Agreement for professional services 
(“Agreement”) on March 4, 2022; and
WHEREAS, on April 4, 2023, Amendment No. 1 was executed, which increased the compensation 
by $400,000 to $1,900,000; and 
WHEREAS, CITY and CONSULTANT, wish to amend the Agreement to extend the total 
compensation amount.
 NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows: 
1.
Section 8—Payment. The second sentence of Section 8 “Payment” is amended to read: 
“…In consideration for the full performances of the services and any reimbursable expenses 
set forth in this Agreement, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee based on verified time 
and materials not to exceed $2,150,000 without prior written authorization…”
2.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
CITY OF SAN MATEO                                             CONSULTANT
                                                                                                Signet Testing Laboratories, Inc.
_____________________                                   ___________________
 Brad B. Underwood                                                By its Authorized Agent 
               Interim Public Works Director                              Robert V. Tadlock
                                                                                                  CEO/President 
Date:__________________                                 Date:_______________
APPROVED AS TO FORM
_____________________
               Linh P. Nguyen
               Assistant City Attorney 
103 of 460

--- page 104 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-72-46
File ID: 23-7916
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 6, 2023
SUBJECT:
Integrated Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System Evaluation and Improvement – Change Order
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution authorizing an alternate purchasing procedure to approve a Contract Change Order No. 1  with 
Enterprise Automation, LLC (EA) for the design, programming, configuration, installation, testing and maintenance of the 
Integrated Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) System in an amount not to exceed $158,352, for a total 
contract amount not to exceed $199,156; establish a contingency reserve of $30,000; and authorize the Public Works 
Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency 
amount. 
BACKGROUND:
The SCADA system allows staff to monitor and control processes at the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) and sanitary 
sewer and stormwater pump stations throughout the City’s sewer and storm water systems. Previously, the WWTP and 
pump station SCADA systems were standalone but have recently been integrated and updated as part of the Clean Water 
Program. As a critical system for monitoring operations and receiving alarms, the SCADA system requires ongoing 
maintenance to ensure proper operation. In addition, after the integration, City staff identified additional critical functions 
that need to be integrated into the SCADA system, including alarm programming updates related to the Marina Lagoon 
Pump Station. Enterprise Automation (EA) is able to address both the required maintenance and system updates needed 
for the integrated SCADA system.
A contract for $40,804 was recently executed with EA for the review and improvement of the Marina Lagoon Pump 
Station, including alarm programming updates. The contract was executed to immediately begin the needed improvement 
of the Marina Lagoon pump station as soon as possible. 
For Contract Change Order No. 1, EA will offer WWTP SCADA system support, including scheduled maintenance and 
priority emergency access to EA engineers. This agreement will secure a second pre-authorized company familiar with the 
City’s programming standards when SCADA support and programming are necessary. Pre-authorization familiarizes the 
vendor with City design standards to allow them to program in the SCADA environment without causing unintended 
problems or catastrophic system errors. TESCO, the other preauthorized programmer, was unresponsive when contacted 
to bid for this work.  
San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.60.050(b) authorizes procurement without competitive bidding procedures when 
calling for bids is impracticable, unavailing, or impossible. A contract change order with EA is appropriate pursuant to these 
standards because City Council previously awarded a contract with EA in July 2020 to provide similar services on the Clean 
Water Program’s SCADA integration project.  Therefore, EA is familiar with the City’s SCADA integration project, and it 
would also take a considerable amount of time to qualify another vendor to familiarize themselves with the design 
104 of 460

--- page 105 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
standards of the City’s WWTP SCADA environment. Therefore, staff recommends approving the contract change order 
with Enterprise Automation, LLC pursuant to the attached resolution.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the WWTP, Sewer, Storm, and Dale Avenue Pump Station operating budgets to cover the 
cost of the contract change order. The initial approved amount was $40,804. Contract Change Order No. 1 increases the 
amount by $158,352.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Council action is exempt from CEQA in that it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility this activity will 
have a significant effect on the environment, because this activity relates to software technology support and 
improvements without any necessary physical changes that may impact the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section   
15061(b)(3).)  
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Contract Change Order No. 1
STAFF CONTACT:
Robert Learmonth, WWTP Manager
rlearmonth@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7386
Matt Fabry, Deputy Director Public Works
mfabry@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7309
105 of 460

--- page 106 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. __ (2023)
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE FOR A CHANGE ORDER WITH ENTERPRISE 
AUTOMATION, LLC FOR SCADA SYSTEM EVALUATION AND IMPROVEMENT SERVICES
WHEREAS, the Wastewater Treatment Plant and Field Maintenance Division use a Supervisory Control 
and Data Acquisition (“SCADA”) system to monitor and control equipment and processes at the Wastewater 
Treatment Plant and sewer and stormwater pump stations; and
WHEREAS, the SCADA system needs to be evaluated, improved and maintained; and
WHEREAS, as part of the Clean Water Program to upgrade the City’s sewer collection and treatment 
system, the City upgraded and integrated SCADA network systems for the Wastewater Treatment Plant and the 
City’s sewer and storm systems; and
WHEREAS, Enterprise Automation, LLC (Enterprise Automation) is one of two providers that have 
been pre-qualified by both the Wastewater Treatment Plant and the Clean Water Program to work on the 
SCADA system; and
WHEREAS, Enterprise Automation was previously involved in the process of integrating and designing 
the network between the existing Wastewater Treatment Plant and the sewer and storm SCADA systems; 
and
WHEREAS, the only other pre-qualified provider was unresponsive to the City’s requests; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with Municipal Code section 3.60.050(b), agreements may be awarded 
without competitive bids if calling for bids would be impracticable, unavailing or impossible and the City 
Council sets forth findings designating the reasons; and
WHEREAS, City staff recommends approval of the Change Order with Enterprise Automation for 
SCADA system evaluation and improvement services.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS and
RESOLVES that:
1.
This Council action is exempt from CEQA in that it can be seen with certainty that there is no 
possibility this activity will have a significant effect on the environment, because this activity 
relates to software technology support and improvements without any necessary physical 
changes that may impact the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).)
2.
In accordance with Municipal Code section 3.60.050(b), calling for bids would be 
impracticable because:
106 of 460

--- page 107 ---
a)
Enterprise Automation is the only provider that was responsive and pre-qualified for 
work on the City’s SCADA system;
b)
Enterprise Automation satisfies technological requirements from the Wastewater 
Treatment Plant and the Clean Water Program; 
c)
Enterprise Automation has familiarity with the SCADA system as it has worked on 
the design and integration of the SCADA network systems for the Wastewater 
Treatment Plant and the City’s sewer and storm systems; 
d)
Other providers will not have the requisite clearance from the Information 
Technology Department or the required knowledge base; and
e)
Approval and clearance of another provider will delay needed system evaluation 
and improvement services of the SCADA system.
3.
The Change Order with Enterprise Automation, LLC to provide system evaluation and 
improvement services in an amount not to exceed $158,352 for a total contract amount not 
to exceed $199,156  is approved.
4.
The Public Works Director is authorized to execute the Change Order in substantially the 
form presented and execute change orders within the contingency reserve.
107 of 460

--- page 108 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
330 WEST 20TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
(650) 522-7300
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER # 1 
PROJECT:
Integrated SCADA System Evaluation and Improvement – Change Order
TO: Enterprise Automation LLC.  
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER NO.
1 
Page 1 of 1
PO/SCON No.
Fund
Cost Center
Spend Category
720 
Date
11/5/2023
You are hereby directed to make the herein described changes from the plans and specifications or do the following described work not
included in the plans and specifications on your contract.
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
Following is a description of work to be done, estimate of quantities, and prices to be paid.
This change order will add the Wastewater Treatment Plant scope of work to enterprise Automation's contract to maintain and improve the
integrated SCADA system. The original PO only covered the sewer and storm water collection systems scope of work. This was done to
ensure the work was started as quickly as possible so that needed changes could be implemented prior to wet weather.
The original contract amount of $ 40,804 will be increased by $158,352 for a total contract amount of $ 199,156.
Total cost of change not to exceed: $158,352
We, the undersigned contractor, have given careful consideration to the change
proposed and hereby agree, if this proposal is approved, that we will provide all
equipment, furnish all materials, except as may otherwise be noted above, and
perform all services necessary for the work above specified, and will accept as
full payment therefore the prices shown above.
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNT
Date Accepted:
Contractor: Enterprise Automation LLC
By:
By:
Title:
BRAD UNDERWOOD, Interim Director of Public Works
DISTRIBUTION: Purchasing, City Clerk, Contractor, Construction Manager,
Project Analyst, Project File
NOTE: This change order is not effective until approved by the
Director of Public Works.
Wastewater Treatment Plant
OtherContractualServices
Original Contract Price
$ 40,804.00
Previous Change Orders
$ 0
Total to date
$0
This Change Order
$158,352.00
Revised Contract Price
$199,156.00
Date Approved:
108 of 460

--- page 109 ---
Exhibit A: Statement of Work and Fee Schedule 
Scope of Work 
Support Contract 2023-
2024
v.4.0.0
On: 
October 17, 2023 
109 of 460

--- page 110 ---
Support Contract 2023-2024 Scope of Work 
Scope of Work 
Support Contract 2023-2024 
Page Number: 2 of 8 
1 
Scope of Support 
1.1 Basis 
This SCADA Support document Details the  scope of work between:
City of San Mateo 
and 
Enterprise Automation 
1.2 Facilities Covered 
The services provided under this SCADA support agreement are solely for the following City of 
San Mateo facilities: 
a) Wastewater Treatment Plant
2050 Detroit Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94404
1.
Dale Avenue Pump Station (DAPS)
Dale Ave. & S Northfolk St.
San Mateo, CA 94404
b) Collections
1949 Pacific Blvd.
San Mateo, CA 94403
c) Underground Flow Equalization System (UFES)
1346 Saratoga Dr.
San Mateo, CA 94404
110 of 460

--- page 111 ---
Support Contract 2023-2024 Scope of Work
Scope of Work 
Support Contract 2023-2024 
Page Number: 3 of 8 
1.3 Nature of Services 
The services provided by EA under this SCADA support contract are limited to the following 
systems (for both water and wastewater systems): 
a) SCADA software
a.
AVEVA
i.
AVEVA System Platform, formally Wonderware
ii.
AVEVA Historian, formerly Wonderware
iii.
AVEVA OMI, formerly Wonderware
b) PLC types and brands
a.
Rockwell Automation
i.
ControlLogix controllers
c) Alarm paging
a.
SeQent FirstPAGE
b.
Hardware supporting cell & radio notifications
d) OITs
a.
Rockwell Automation
i.
PanelView graphic terminals
e) SCADA Domain PCs, Virtual Machines
f)
Associated SCADA panels and I/O
g) PLC hardware and programs
Unless specifically indicated in this scope of work, design documentation developed through this 
project will not be stamped by a professional engineer. Delays due to mechanical, electrical, or IT 
related issues, production scheduling constraints, or lack of system availability out of EA’s 
control, which result in additional site time, will be charged at EA’s standard hourly rates. 
1.4 Excluded Systems 
City of San Mateo has some specialized equipment with which EA does not have specific 
expertise or is outside the scope of this contract.  
As some excluded systems interact with the supported systems, EA will assist with diagnosing 
problems where possible, however the following excluded systems and components are not 
formally supported by EA under this agreement. 
a) General process equipment (valves, pumps, motors, etc.)
b) Security systems
c) Electrical systems (MCC buckets, medium/high voltage equipment)
d) Collections RTU programming
e) City firewalls
f)
Hach WIMS
g) Associated SCADA networking (Cat 5/6 and fiber)
h) Communications via wireless radio to remote sites
111 of 460

--- page 112 ---
Support Contract 2023-2024 Scope of Work  
Scope of Work 
Support Contract 2023-2024 
Page Number: 4 of 8 
1.5 Project Management 
EA will provide a dedicated project manager to be the main point of contact and steward all 
communication through EA. The PM has primary responsibility for this project’s scope, budget, 
and schedule. This will help ensure accurate and effective communications and decisions. The 
PM will perform all commercial, budget, and project tracking related updates through the life of 
the support contract. 
With consideration of other ongoing projects with SMO, the PM will communicate with SMO’s key 
contact on a regular basis to review the status of this support contract’s budget, the outcome or 
status of any support requests, and to coordinate upcoming maintenance visits. 
For each workshop or meeting involving key project decisions, EA will draft and release meeting 
minutes with action items and dates assigned within one week.  
Key Project Management Roles and Activities: 
1.
Primary point of contact, communications coordination
2.
Maintenance visit scheduling
3.
Urgent support coordination
4.
Project status tracking (daily/weekly)
5.
Status communication with SMO
6.
Contract invoices and tracking report (monthly)
2 
Services Provided 
The services provided by EA are divided into the following SCADA support categories: 
1.
As-needed project task orders
2.
10 hours per day 5 days per week (“10x5”) urgent support priority
3.
Two (bi-annual) scheduled maintenance inspections (roughly every 6 months)
4.
Development and maintenance of SMO manufacturer’s support renewal tracking
system (e.g. Dell support, Wonderware support, etc.)
2.1 Urgent Support (10x5) 
2.1.1 General 
The support covered in this contract will provide priority support as needed via the following 
support tiers. All support responses including Emergency and urgent support work will be 
charged at EA’s standard engineering hourly rates. This does not include dedicated time for 
these activities. 
Note that the City’s internal staff will be the first line of support in urgent support cases. EA’s 
contact procedure should be used as a secondary line of support. 
112 of 460

--- page 113 ---
Support Contract 2023-2024 Scope of Work 
Scope of Work 
Support Contract 2023-2024 
Page Number: 5 of 8 
2.1.2 Phone support 
Phone support will be provided during the regular business week, Monday through Friday 
(excluding Holidays) from 8am to 6pm. In cases where production is threatened, troubleshooting 
may continue past 6pm. 
Phone support is the first tier of support provided. 
2.1.3 Remote support 
Remote support and diagnosis of problems by EA engineers will be provided where necessary. A 
change request will be needed for EA to get remote access and provide this level of support. 
Remote support is the second tier of support provided and will be provided when phone 
support options have been exhausted. 
2.1.4 Urgent on-site support 
Where necessary, EA engineers will be available for on-site support, with SMO receiving priority 
scheduling. 
There may be times where immediate call response and on-site attendance is not practical or 
possible. Enterprise Automation will endeavor to respond to all calls for assistance in the 
timeframes described in this support contract. However, response within the described 
timeframes is not guaranteed, and Enterprise Automation will not be held liable for system 
downtime, loss of production, or any consequential damages. 
On-site support is the third tier of support provided and will be provided when phone support 
and remote support options have been exhausted. 
2.2 Scheduled SCADA Maintenance 
In order to ensure the PLCs, OITs, and SCADA systems are properly maintained and updated, 
Enterprise Automation will perform scheduled maintenance twice per year.  
The services to be provided during scheduled maintenance visits includes: 
•
Review of system error logs
•
Review of SCADA alarms
•
Interviewing engineering and operation staff for platform performance issues
•
Complete backup of all virtualized resources
•
Hardware visual inspection
o
Control panels with PLCs or Remote IO (review status lights)
o
Server Infrastructure (servers, UPS, thin clients, etc.)
o
IT hardware (review status lights)
o
Thin Clients and peripherals
113 of 460

--- page 114 ---
Support Contract 2023-2024 Scope of Work 
Scope of Work 
Support Contract 2023-2024 
Page Number: 6 of 8 
2.2.1 Procedures 
To promote consistency and thoroughness, EA will develop procedures and a master checklist 
for scheduled SCADA maintenance visits. The procedures will be based on EA’s standard 
maintenance procedure but customized for SMO’s specific needs and infrastructure. 
The procedures to be developed are as follows: 
EA in-office maintenance procedures: 
1) SCADA Test Platform WSUS Update Procedure
On-site maintenance procedures: 
2) Software Maintenance Procedure
3) Hardware Maintenance Procedure
Miscellaneous: 
4) SCADA CR Procedure
Each of these procedures will be used for every scheduled maintenance inspection, which will be 
performed once approximately every six months (biannually).  
The City has two specific requests be built into the procedures. 
1.
Disaster recovery testing during maintenance visits
2.
Monthly checks on AppServer logs
2.2.2 SCADA CR System Setup 
Based on the template change management process in use by other EA water and wastewater 
clients, EA will draft an initial CR Process document. This document will contain the procedure to 
be followed when requesting, estimating, executing, and completing a change to the City’s 
existing SCADA system. This process ensures the City maintains awareness and control over the 
support budgets, only modifies areas of the system based on approval, and properly updates 
documents and individuals with each change. End users with a defined and adhered to change 
management process have higher functioning and more reliable systems as a result of this 
tighter oversight and control. 
2.2.3 Test platform update 
As part of EA’s standard maintenance procedures, Windows Updates will be applied and tested to 
SMO’s SCADA servers. On occasion, an update will interfere with SCADA system functions. 
Examples include: communication with field devices or opening third party (non-Microsoft) 
software. 
For this reason, prior to each on-site maintenance trip, EA will install Microsoft updates on all 
SCADA computers on SMO’s test platform, and will subsequently run the system overnight to 
validate SCADA operations. 
2.2.3.1 Test platform hosting 
Enterprise Automation currently hosts 20+ virtual machines on our IT infrastructure. This allows 
EA to develop and make changes to the City’s SCADA system in a controlled manner. On this 
platform, we can easily test changes before they are deployed onsite, minimizing deployment 
risk. 
Enterprise Automation charges a fee for hosting these VMs. This fee is included at the end of 
this proposal. 
114 of 460

--- page 115 ---
Support Contract 2023-2024 Scope of Work
Scope of Work 
Support Contract 2023-2024 
Page Number: 7 of 8 
2.2.3.2 Microsoft update failure 
Should an update affect the integrity of the SCADA system, EA will investigate the issue and 
identify a solution. Solutions may include skipping installation of the specific update(s), 
requesting SCADA software manufacturer support (patches, hotfixes, etc.), or identifying 
alternatives as recommended by Microsoft. 
If required, EA will perform all safe updates on-site, excluding the failed update, so that the SCADA 
system on-site is as current as possible. 
Budget to fix failed updates is not included as part of this proposal. This would typically be 
handled by the CR system. 
2.2.4 Scheduled maintenance execution 
EA will schedule and send one engineer into the field for two days. EA will schedule the visit in 
advance, making our best effort to align with SMO’s preferred weekday hours of operation. The 
goal of this visit is to test the draft maintenance procedures while training city staff on how to 
perform the inspections and fill out the maintenance procedures. 
EA will schedule a second maintenance session with the City. The goal is for EA to perform the 
items that can be completed remotely, while City staff perform the onsite investigation. After both 
parties have completed their maintenance checklists, they will have a virtual visit to review the 
checklists and make sure any open items are converted to CRs. 
Scheduled maintenance visit budgets will not be used to implement ad-hoc change requests 
(CRs). 
2.2.5 Inspection Follow-up 
During the course of executing the maintenance procedures it is not uncommon for EA to find 
issues which need to be addressed. EA has provided time to review these issues with SMO (via 
phone). These types of issues are normally turned into CRs. This does not include time to fix 
issues identified during the maintenance inspection. 
2.2.6 SCADA maintenance procedure revisions 
Through the duration of the support contract, SMO’s personnel and/or EA engineers will likely 
identify additional tasks, or system changes, that should be included or modified in the 
maintenance procedures. Time has been included for minor procedure revisions as needed. 
115 of 460

--- page 116 ---
Support Contract 2023-2024 Scope of Work  
9050 Irvine Center Dr Irvine CA 92618 USA 
Tel 949-769-6000 Fax 949-769-6005 
www.eaintegrator.com 
Scope of Work 
Support Contract 2023-2024 
Page Number: 8 of 8 
2.3 Manufactures’ Support Renewal Tracking 
The City’s SCADA platform consists of a wide variety of hardware and software components. 
Due to the mission critical nature of the system, EA recommends maintaining manufacturer’s 
support on an annual basis. Examples include: 
•
Dell server next day business support
•
Wonderware technical support (System Platform, Historian, etc.)
•
VMware vCenter Server technical support
•
Veeam technical support
•
Studio 5000 software support
•
etc.
The wide variety of components and manufacturers results in a complex annual renewal 
schedule to manage, which requires a systematic schedule and reminder system to do 
successfully. EA will include budget to set up the initial Mantis system and tracking items to 
fulfill this need. 
Under this support contract, EA will maintain the renewal/expiration reminders in the Mantis 
tracking system, which will continue to function as previously designed. 
Upon renewal of any manufacturer support service, it is SMO’s responsibility to disclose any 
requested modifications to the service plan including plan level and/or contract length. 
3 
Requesting Support 
Written approval (email or letter) from SMO is required for all submittals within 10 business days 
of release by EA. 
3.1 Support Access and Escalation 
A contact procedure is provided in Appendix A. This procedure details the contact methods for 
the primary and secondary contacts, as well as providing an escalation procedure, should this be 
necessary. 
3.2 Phone Call Response Time 
EA will attempt to respond to any phone call, during the specified support hours, within one hour. 
In general, EA will be able to begin troubleshooting a problem immediately after being contacted. 
3.3 On-site Response Time 
The City will receive priority scheduling should on-site support be required. An engineer will 
therefore be dispatched to site as soon as practical. 
Note that EA is located in southern California. Travel time to site can vary depending on airline 
conditions. Time must also be allowed for the engineer to prepare for the trip. 
116 of 460

--- page 117 ---
Support Contract 2023-2024 Scope of Work 
Scope of Work 
Appendix A: Cost
4 
Appendix A: Cost 
117 of 460

--- page 118 ---
Client:     City of San Mateo
Project:   Support Contract 23-24
Number: EA23SMO108     Date: 10/16/2023     Revision: 4.0.0     Author: MM     Reviewed By: JR
Summary
Project Eng.
Lead Eng.
PM
Principal
Project Eng.
Lead Eng.
PM
Principal
Hours
Price
Initiation
5
5
7
0
0
0
0
0
17
$4,260
SCADA Maintenance
111
36
20
0
0
16
0
0
183
$44,028
On Call Support
112
112
39
0
50
50
0
0
363
$89,196
Engineering Labor Totals
228
153
66
0
50
66
0
0
563
$137,484
Expenses (incl. taxes where applicable)
Price
EXP Fees
$18,388
EXP Travel
$2,480
Total Expenses
$20,868
Grand Total
$158,352
#
In Office
Totals
Out of Office
Engineering Labor
EA23SMO108 Support Contract 23-24 3.9.0.xlsm
Summary
1 of 8
118 of 460

--- page 119 ---
Client:     City of San Mateo
Project:   Support Contract 23-24
Number: EA23SMO108     Date: 10/16/2023     Revision: 4.0.0     Author: MM     Reviewed By: JR
WBS Description
Project Eng.
Lead Eng.
PM
Principal
Project Eng.
Lead Eng.
PM
Principal
Project initiation
12
$3,056
010 accounting setup
2
020 develop project schedule, resource loading
2
050 execution planning
2
develop initial detailed project task execution plans
030 internal kickoff meeting
2
2
2
review project scope
review design documentation
purpose, schedule, team roles, expectations
risk matrix and due dates
040 Project kickoff
5
$1,204
prepare materials for kickoff (agenda, coordination)
1
project kickoff meeting with customer
1
1
1
review scope, roles, expectations
review schedule
site inspection
notes compilation
1
Hours
5
5
7
0
0
0
0
0
17
Price
$1,140
$1,300
$1,820
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$4,260
Price
In Office
Out of Office
Totals
Initiation
Engineering Labor
Hours
EA23SMO108  Support Contract 23-24 3.9.0.xlsm
ENG Initiation
2 of 8
119 of 460

--- page 120 ---
Client:     City of San Mateo
Project:   Support Contract 23-24
Number: EA23SMO108     Date: 10/16/2023     Revision: 4.0.0     Author: MM     Reviewed By: JR
WBS Description
Project Eng.
Lead Eng.
PM
Principal
Project Eng.
Lead Eng.
PM
Principal
600 SCADA Maintenance Procedures Development
68
$15,952
develop maintenance procedures for maintenance visits
<estimate based on leveraging EA standards process>
EA in-office maintenance procedures
16
4
SCADA Test Platform WSUS Update Procedure
On-site maintenance procedures
Software Maintenance Procedure
16
4
Hardware Maintenance Procedure
16
4
Miscellaneous
SCADA CR Procedure
<see below 'CR Maintenance Procedure' estimation>
as-needed procedure updates
6
2
budget to make updates following procedure execution
600 Scheduled Maintenance Visit 1
26
$6,504
perform scheduled maintenance for the City
preparation
8
2
onsite visit (1 engineer, 2 days)
16
<potential maintenance visit plans>
review of system error logs
review of SCADA alarms
interviewing engineering/operations staff for platform issues
complete backup of virtualized resources
hardware visual inspection
misc. discussed tasks
Hours
Price
SCADA Maintenance
Engineering Labor
In Office
Out of Office
Totals
EA23SMO108 ESTIMATE  Contract 23-24 3.9.0.xlsm
ENG SCADA Maintenance
3 of 8
120 of 460

--- page 121 ---
Client:     City of San Mateo
Project:   Support Contract 23-24
Number: EA23SMO108     Date: 10/16/2023     Revision: 4.0.0     Author: MM     Reviewed By: JR
WBS Description
Project Eng.
Lead Eng.
PM
Principal
Project Eng.
Lead Eng.
PM
Principal
Hours
Price
SCADA Maintenance
Engineering Labor
In Office
Out of Office
Totals
600 Scheduled Maintenance 2
16
$3,776
perform scheduled maintenance for the City
preparation
2
2
virtual visit (1 engineer, 1 days)
8
<potential maintenance visit plans>
review of system error logs
review of SCADA alarms
interviewing engineering/operations staff for platform issues
complete backup of virtualized resources
hardware visual inspection
misc. discussed tasks
group debrief
2
2
600 CR Maintenance Procedure
33
$7,812
create draft CR process document
16
4
<estimate based on leveraging EA standards process>
submit for review
CR process document workshop
4
4
review CR process document for feedback
implement feedback and finalize document
4
1
EA23SMO108 Support Contract 23-24 3.9.0.xlsm
ENG SCADA Maintenance
4 of 8
121 of 460

--- page 122 ---
Client:     City of San Mateo
Project:   Support Contract 23-24
Number: EA23SMO108     Date: 10/16/2023     Revision: 4.0.0     Author: MM     Reviewed By: JR
WBS Description
Project Eng.
Lead Eng.
PM
Principal
Project Eng.
Lead Eng.
PM
Principal
Hours
Price
SCADA Maintenance
Engineering Labor
In Office
Out of Office
Totals
600 CR Tracking System Setup
4
2
6
$1,432
create dedicated area in Mantis for tracking and logging CRs
<estimate based on leveragiung EA standards process>
system change requests
bug fix requests
misc. request tracking
600 Test Platform Update
4
2
6
$1,432
apply Windows updates and test 
<updates to be installed prior to each maintenance visit>
600 Manufactures' Support Renewal Tracking
8
$1,920
update tracking system and renewal dates
4
2
review active support cycles
utilize tracking and report to the City as needed
1
1
990 Project management
20
$5,200
coordination, project management, overhead, meetings
20
Hours
111
36
20
0
0
16
0
0
183
Price
$25,308
$9,360
$5,200
$0
$0
$4,160
$0
$0
$44,028
EA23SMO108 Support Contract 23-24 3.9.0.xlsm
ENG SCADA Maintenance
5 of 8
122 of 460

--- page 123 ---
Client:     City of San Mateo
Project:   Support Contract 23-24
Number: EA23SMO108     Date: 10/16/2023     Revision: 4.0.0     Author: MM     Reviewed By: JR
WBS Description
Project Eng.
Lead Eng.
PM
Principal
Project Eng.
Lead Eng.
PM
Principal
650 On Call Support
16
16
10
10
52
$12,688
as needed planning and emergency budget
600 Change Requests
272
$66,368
CR management
16
16
CR execution
80
80
40
40
<individual CRs created upon request>
990 Project management
39
$10,140
coordination, project management, overhead, meetings
39
Hours
112
112
39
0
50
50
0
0
363
Price
$25,536
$29,120
$10,140
$0
$11,400
$13,000
$0
$0
$89,196
Hours
Price
On Call Support
Engineering Labor
In Office
Out of Office
Totals
EA23SMO108  Support Contract 23-24 3.9.0.xlsm
ENG On Call Support
6 of 8
123 of 460

--- page 124 ---
Client:     City of San Mateo
Project:   Support Contract 23-24
Number: EA23SMO108     Date: 10/16/2023     Revision: 4.0.0     Author: MM     Reviewed By: JR
No. Name / Type
Description
Price
1.
Priority Support
10x5 phone support fee
$10,000
2.
Test platform hosting
test platform hosting fee (Tier 2)
$8,388
Price
$18,388
Fees
EA23SMO108  Support Contract 23-24 3.9.0.xlsm
EXP Fees
7 of 8
124 of 460

--- page 125 ---
Client:     City of San Mateo
Project:   Support Contract 23-24
Number: EA23SMO108     Date: 10/16/2023     Revision: 4.0.0     Author: MM     Reviewed By: JR
Travel
Scheduled Maintenance Visits
$992
1.
hotel
per night, per GSA rate
2
$222
$444
2.
flight
round trip, per person
2
$200
$400
3.
per diem
per GSA rate
2
$74
$148
On-Call Support/CR Visits
$1,488
1.
hotel
per night, per GSA rate
3
$222
$666
2.
flight
round trip, per person
3
$200
$600
3.
per diem
per GSA rate
3
$74
$222
Price
$2,480
Ext. Cost
Price
No.
Description
Rate Details
Qty.
Unit Cost
EA23SMO108 Support Contract 23-24 3.9.0.xlsm
EXP Travel
8 of 8
125 of 460

--- page 126 ---
Support Contract 2023-2024 Scope of Work 
Scope of Work 
Appendix B: I/O List 
5 
Appendix B: I/O List 
126 of 460

--- page 127 ---
Module
I/O # Tag Name
Description
Open
Close
Modbus Address
1
1
ML_Eng1_Fail
Marina Lagoon Engine 1 Fail
NORMAL
ALARM
306190:01
1
2
ML_Eng2_Fail
Marina Lagoon Engine 2 Fail
NORMAL
ALARM
306190:02
1
3
ML_Eng3_Fail
Marina Lagoon Engine 3 Fail
NORMAL
ALARM
306190:03
1
4
ML_Eng4_Fail
Marina Lagoon Engine 4 Fail
NORMAL
ALARM
306190:04
1
5
ML_Eng5_Fail
Marina Lagoon Engine 5 Fail
NORMAL
ALARM
306190:05
1
6
ML_Generator
Marina Lagoon Standby Generator Fail
NORMAL
ALARM
306190:06
1
7
ML_LowFuel
Marina Lagoon Low Fuel Level
NORMAL
ALARM
306190:07
1
8
ML_GeneratorStatus
Marina Lagoon Standby Generator Status
OFF
ON
306190:08
1
9
ML_HighLagLevel
Marina Lagoon Lagoon Water Level High
NORMAL
ALARM
306190:09
1
10
ML_LowLagLevel
Marina Lagoon Lagoon Water Level Low
NORMAL
ALARM
306190:10
1
11
ML_FillGateOpen
Marina Lagoon Fill Gate is Completely Open
OPEN
NORMAL
306190:11
1
12
ML_FillGateClosed
Marina Lagoon Fill Gate Completely Closed
NORMAL
ALARM
306190:12
1
13
ML_SiteEntry
Marina Lagoon Site Entry
ALARM
NORMAL
306190:13
1
14
ML_PG&Epower
Marina Lagoon PG &E Power Status
NORMAL
FAILURE
306190:14
1
15
Spare
N/A
1
16
ML_FillPump
Marina Lagoon Fill Pump Status
OFF
ON
306190:16
2
1
ML_Engine1
Marina Lagoon Engine 1 Status
OFF
ON
306446:01
2
2
ML_Engine2
Marina Lagoon Engine 2 Status
OFF
ON
306446:02
2
3
ML_Engine3
Marina Lagoon Engine 3 Status
OFF
ON
306446:03
2
4
ML_Engine4
Marina Lagoon Engine 4 Status
OFF
ON
306446:04
2
5
ML_Engine5
Marina Lagoon Engine 5 Status
OFF
ON
306446:05
2
6
ML_Eng1_Overcrank
Marina Lagoon Engine 1 Overcrank Alarm
NORMAL
ALARM
306446:06
2
7
ML_Eng2_Overcrank
Marina Lagoon Engine 2 Overcrank Alarm
NORMAL
ALARM
306446:07
2
8
ML_Eng3_Overcrank
Marina Lagoon Engine 3 Overcrank Alarm
NORMAL
ALARM
306446:08
2
9
ML_Eng4_Overcrank
Marina Lagoon Engine 4 Overcrank Alarm
NORMAL
ALARM
306446:09
2
10
ML_Eng5_Overcrank
Marina Lagoon Engine 5 Overcrank Alarm
NORMAL
ALARM
306446:10
2
11
ML_Eng1_Overspeed
Marina Lagoon Engine 1 Overspeed Alarm
NORMAL
ALARM
306446:11
2
12
ML_Eng2_Overspeed
Marina Lagoon Engine 2 Overspeed Alarm
NORMAL
ALARM
306446:12
2
13
ML_Eng3_Overspeed
Marina Lagoon Engine 3 Overspeed Alarm
NORMAL
ALARM
306446:13
2
14
ML_Eng4_Overspeed
Marina Lagoon Engine 4 Overspeed Alarm
NORMAL
ALARM
306446:14
2
15
ML_Eng5_Overspeed
Marina Lagoon Engine 5 Overspeed Alarm
NORMAL
ALARM
306446:15
2
16
ML_Eng1_HiTemp
Marina Lagoon Engine 1 High Water Temp
NORMAL
ALARM
306446:16
3
1
ML_Eng2_HiTemp
Marina Lagoon Engine 2 High Water Temp
NORMAL
ALARM
314382:01
3
2
ML_Eng3_HiTemp
Marina Lagoon Engine 3 High Water Temp
NORMAL
ALARM
314382:02
3
3
ML_Eng4_HiTemp
Marina Lagoon Engine 4 High Water Temp
NORMAL
ALARM
314382:03
3
4
ML_Eng5_HiTemp
Marina Lagoon Engine 5 High Water Temp
NORMAL
ALARM
314382:04
3
5
ML_Eng1_LowOil
Marina Lagoon Engine 1 Low Oil Pressure
NORMAL
ALARM
314382:05
3
6
ML_Eng2_LowOil
Marina Lagoon Engine 2 Low Oil Pressure
NORMAL
ALARM
314382:06
3
7
ML_Eng3_LowOil
Marina Lagoon Engine 3 Low Oil Pressure
NORMAL
ALARM
314382:07
3
8
ML_Eng4_LowOil
Marina Lagoon Engine 4 Low Oil Pressure
NORMAL
ALARM
314382:08
3
9
ML_Eng5_LowOil
Marina Lagoon Engine 5 Low Oil Pressure
NORMAL
ALARM
314382:09
3
10
ML_Eng1_LoWater
Marina Lagoon Engine 1 Low Water Level
NORMAL
ALARM
314382:10
3
11
ML_Eng2_LoWater
Marina Lagoon Engine 2 Low Water Level
NORMAL
ALARM
314382:11
3
12
ML_Eng3_LoWater
Marina Lagoon Engine 3 Low Water Level
NORMAL
ALARM
314382:12
3
13
ML_Eng4_LoWater
Marina Lagoon Engine 4 Low Water Level
NORMAL
ALARM
314382:13
3
14
ML_Eng5_LoWater
Marina Lagoon Engine 5 Low Water Level
NORMAL
ALARM
314382:14
3
15
ML_Eng1_LoGearbox
Marina Lagoon Engine 1 Low Gearbox Oil Pressure
NORMAL
ALARM
314382:15
3
16
ML_Eng2_LoGearbox
Marina Lagoon Engine 2 Low Gearbox Oil Pressure
NORMAL
ALARM
314382:16
4
1
ML_Eng3_LoGearbox
Marina Lagoon Engine 3 Low Gearbox Oil Pressure
NORMAL
ALARM
314638:01
4
2
ML_Eng4_LoGearbox
Marina Lagoon Engine 4 Low Gearbox Oil Pressure
NORMAL
ALARM
314638:02
4
3
ML_Eng5_LoGearbox
Marina Lagoon Engine 5 Low Gearbox Oil Pressure
NORMAL
ALARM
314638:03
4
4
ML_WetWellHigh
Marina Lagoon Wet Well High Level Float
NORMAL
ALARM
314638:04
4
5
ML_WetWellLow
Marina Lagoon Wet Well Low Level Float
NORMAL
ALARM
314638:05
4
6
ML_OutsideHiHi
Marina Lagoon Outside High High Level Float
NORMAL
ALARM
314638:06
Module
I/O # Tag Name
Description
1
1
Spare
1
2
ML_WetWellLevel
Marina Lagoon Wet Well Level*
1
3
ML_LagLevelFeet
Marina Lagoon Level*
1
4
Spare
San Mateo
12-Sep-23
Digital Inputs
Analog Inputs
Marina Lagoon I/O Listing V3
Modbus Address
N/A
308494
308750
N/A
127 of 460

--- page 128 ---
*4–20mA signal corresponds to integer value of 0–32767. Bad value is equal to -32768
Value #
Description
1
Digital Inputs 33 - 48
2
Digital Inputs 49 - 64
3
ML_Eng1_Cumulative_Starts
Marina Lagoon Engine 1 Cumulative # of Starts
4
ML_Eng1_Month_Starts
Marina Lagoon Engine 1 # of Starts this month
5
ML_Eng1_PrevMonth_Starts
Marina Lagoon Engine 1 # of Starts in previous month
6
ML_Eng1_Cumulative_Runtime
Marina Lagoon Engine 1 Cumulative Runtime
7
ML_Eng1_Month_Runtime
Marina Lagoon Engine 1 Runtime this Month
8
ML_Eng1_PrevMonth_Runtime
Marina Lagoon Engine 1 Runtime in previous month
9
ML_Eng2_Cumulative_Starts
Marina Lagoon Engine 2 Cumulative # of Starts
10
ML_Eng2_Month_Starts
Marina Lagoon Engine 2 # of Starts this month
11
ML_Eng2_PrevMonth_Starts
Marina Lagoon Engine 2 # of Starts in previous month
12
ML_Eng2_Cumulative_Runtime
Marina Lagoon Engine 2 Cumulative Runtime
13
ML_Eng2_Month_Runtime
Marina Lagoon Engine 2 Runtime this Month
14
ML_Eng2_PrevMonth_Runtime
Marina Lagoon Engine 2 Runtime in previous month
15
ML_Eng3_Cumulative_Starts
Marina Lagoon Engine 3 Cumulative # of Starts
16
ML_Eng3_Month_Starts
Marina Lagoon Engine 3 # of Starts this month
17
ML_Eng3_PrevMonth_Starts
Marina Lagoon Engine 3 # of Starts in previous month
18
ML_Eng3_Cumulative_Runtime
Marina Lagoon Engine 3 Cumulative Runtime
19
ML_Eng3_Month_Runtime
Marina Lagoon Engine 3 Runtime this Month
20
ML_Eng3_PrevMonth_Runtime
Marina Lagoon Engine 3 Runtime in previous month
21
ML_Eng4_Cumulative_Starts
Marina Lagoon Engine 4 Cumulative # of Starts
22
ML_Eng4_Month_Starts
Marina Lagoon Engine 4 # of Starts this month
23
ML_Eng4_PrevMonth_Starts
Marina Lagoon Engine 4 # of Starts in previous month
24
ML_Eng4_Cumulative_Runtime
Marina Lagoon Engine 4 Cumulative Runtime
25
ML_Eng4_Month_Runtime
Marina Lagoon Engine 4 Runtime this Month
26
ML_Eng4_PrevMonth_Runtime
Marina Lagoon Engine 4 Runtime in previous month
27
ML_Eng5_Cumulative_Starts
Marina Lagoon Engine 5 Cumulative # of Starts
28
ML_Eng5_Month_Starts
Marina Lagoon Engine 5 # of Starts this month
29
ML_Eng5_PrevMonth_Starts
Marina Lagoon Engine 5 # of Starts in previous month
30
ML_Eng5_Cumulative_Runtime
Marina Lagoon Engine 5 Cumulative Runtime
31
ML_Eng5_Month_Runtime
Marina Lagoon Engine 5 Runtime this Month
32
ML_Eng5_PrevMonth_Runtime
Marina Lagoon Engine 5 Runtime in previous month
33
ML_Gen_Cumulative_Starts
Marina Lagoon Generator Cumulative # of Starts
34
ML_Gen_Month_Starts
Marina Lagoon Generator # of Starts this month
35
ML_Gen_PrevMonth_Starts
Marina Lagoon Generator # of Starts in previous month
36
ML_Gen_Cumulative_Runtime
Marina Lagoon Generator Cumulative Runtime
37
ML_Gen_Month_Runtime
Marina Lagoon Generator Runtime this Month
38
ML_Gen_PrevMonth_Runtime
Marina Lagoon Generator Runtime in previous month
Tag Name
Description
ML_Reset_RTs_Starts
Marina Lagoon Reset cumulative runtimes and starts**
**Value of -1 should be written to this address
407982
Command #
1
Commands
Modbus Address
322574
322830
323086
323342
323598
321294
321550
321806
322062
322318
320014
320270
320526
320782
321038
318734
318990
319246
319502
319758
317454
323854
Tag Name
Values
Modbus Address
314894
315150
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
317710
317966
318222
318478
316686
316942
317198
315918
315406
315662
316174
316430
128 of 460

--- page 129 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 14-1311
File ID: 23-8120
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
November 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
375 2nd Avenue – Lease Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a lease agreement with Cold Stone Creamery Leasing, Inc. for a five-year term and five-year option, for the City-
owned space at 375 2nd Avenue and authorize the City Manager to execute the lease in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
There are six commercial spaces at the Main Street Garage, owned and managed by the City. These commercial spaces 
were created to attract retail tenants that enhance the downtown area. Cold Stone Creamery Leasing, Inc. provides 
customers with a premium ice cream experience.
Cold Stone Creamery Leasing, Inc. is the corporate entity for the national chain, and they intend to remain in their current 
retail space for their franchisees. Since May 2003 Cold Stone Creamery Leasing, Inc. has maintained an exemplary record 
of lease compliance and responsible tenancy. They have utilized all available lease extensions under the existing 
agreement. Consequently, the parties are proposing to enter into a new lease agreement with updated terms. 
The City’s commercial property manager negotiated a five-year (60 month) lease term with Cold Stone Creamery, Inc. and 
one five-year (60) month extension option. The initial lease rate is $3,224.50 monthly or roughly $3.09 per square foot, 
with a 3% annual increase.  Should Cold Stone Creamery Leasing execute the five-year extension option, the rent will be 
increased by the consumer price index annually. 
The following is a summary of the key deal points: 
•
Term of Lease: Initial five-year (60 month) term with one five-year (60 month) extension option to renew.
•
Rent: $3,224.50 a month gross with 3% annual increases for the initial five-year term. 
•
Use of premises: Cold Stone Creamery ice cream store. 
•
Broker Commission: Commission fee of $1,000.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The new lease will generate $205,431.70 in revenue to the City over the initial five-year term. The revenue is deposited in 
the Downtown Parking and Maintenance Fund (Fund 28) and is used to fund improvements to the Downtown parking 
facilities and to cover other Downtown maintenance expenses. The brokerage fee will be deducted from the commercial 
property revenues.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This lease agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
129 of 460

--- page 130 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Lease 
STAFF CONTACT
Jennifer Chen, Economic Development Manager
jchen@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7009
130 of 460

--- page 131 ---
INITIALS
© 2019 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
MTN-26.30, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 1 of 18
AIR CRE Contracts
STANDARD INDUSTRIAL/COMMERCIAL MULTI-TENANT LEASE - NET
1.
Basic Provisions ("Basic Provisions").
1.1
Parties. This Lease ("Lease"), dated for reference purposes only                                                                                     , is made by and between CITY OF 
SAN MATEO("Lessor") and COLD STONE CREAMERY LEASING COMPANY, INC.("Lessee"), (collectively the "Parties", or individually a 
"Party").
1.2(a)
Premises: That certain real property, including all improvements therein or to be provided by Lessor under the terms of this Lease, commonly known 
as (street address, unit/suite, city, state, zip):      375 Second Avenue, San Mateo, CA
94401 ("Premises").  The Premises are   located in 
the County of San Mateo, and are generally described as (describe briefly the nature of the Premises and the "Project"): an approximately 
1,050SF space in a multi-tenant parking structure building, per the site plan attached 
per Section 1.12 below. In addition to Lessee's rights to use and occupy the Premises as hereinafter specified, Lessee shall have non-exclusive rights 
to any utility raceways of the building containing the Premises ("Building") and to the Common Areas (as defined in Paragraph 2.7 below), but shall not have any rights 
to the roof, or exterior walls of the Building or to any other buildings in the Project.  The Premises, the Building, the Common Areas, the land upon which they are 
located, along with all other buildings and improvements thereon, are herein collectively referred to as the "Project." (See also Paragraph 2)
1.2(b)
Parking:     no
unreserved vehicle parking spaces.  (See also Paragraph 2.6)
1.3
Term:       five (5) years and     no
months ("Original Term") commencing      November 1, 2023 ("Commencement Date") 
and ending     October 31, 2028 ("Expiration Date").  (See also Paragraph 3 )
1.4
Early Possession:  If the Premises are available Lessee may have non-exclusive possession of the Premises commencing
("Early Possession 
Date").  (See also Paragraphs 3.2 and 3.3)
1.5
Base Rent:   $3,244.50 per month ("Base Rent"), payable on the     first day of each month commencing     November 1,2023
subject to Paragraph 50 herein (See also Paragraph 4). In addition to the Base Rent, Lessee shall pay the amount of Two Hundred and fifty and 00/100 
($250.00) dollars each month as a contribution to the maintenance of the common area of the Project. All rent is to be paid by check via mail to 
Prodesse Property Group at 1065 E. Hillsdale Blvd., Suite 317, Foster City, CA 94404.
 If this box is checked, there are provisions in this Lease for the Base Rent to be adjusted. See Paragraph     50
.
1.6
Lessee's Share of Common Area Operating Expenses:     none
percent (    0
%) ("Lessee's Share").  In the event that the size of the 
Premises and/or the Project are modified during the term of this Lease, Lessor shall recalculate Lessee's Share to reflect such modification.
1.7
Base Rent and Other Monies Paid Upon Execution:
(a)
Base Rent:      $3,244.50  for the period     November 1, 2023 to November 30, 2023 .
(b)
Common Area Operating Expenses:  The current estimate for the period     November 1, 2023 to November 30, 2023 is
  $250.00 .
(c)
Security Deposit:      $3,244.50, already paid ("Security Deposit").  (See also Paragraph  5)
(d)
Other:
for 
.
(e)
Total Due Upon Execution of this Lease:      $6,489.00 .
1.8
Agreed Use:      for the operation of a Cold Stone Creamery ice cream store .  (See also Paragraph 6)
1.9
Insuring Party.  Lessor is the "Insuring Party".  (See also Paragraph 8)
1.10 Real Estate Brokers. (See also Paragraphs 15 and 25)
(a)
Representation: Each Party acknowledges receiving a Disclosure Regarding Real Estate Agency Relationship, confirms and consents to the following 
agency relationships in this Lease with the following real estate brokers ("Broker(s)") and/or their agents ("Agent(s)"):
Lessor's Brokerage Firm      Prodesse Property Group
License No.     01167036 Is the   broker of (check one)          the Lessor; or 
both the Lessee and Lessor (dual agent).
Lessor's Agent     Dean Isaacs
License No.     00807972 is (check one): 
the Lessor's Agent (salesperson or broker associate); or
both 
the Lessee's Agent and the Lessor's Agent (dual agent).
Lessee's Brokerage Firm
License No.
Is the broker of (check one):
the Lessee; or
both the Lessee and Lessor (dual 
agent).
Lessee's Agent
License No.
is (check one):
the Lessee's Agent (salesperson or broker associate); or
both the Lessee's 
Agent and the Lessor's Agent (dual agent).
(b)
Payment to Brokers. Upon execution and delivery of this Lease by both Parties, Lessor shall pay to the Brokers the brokerage fee agreed to in a
separate written agreement (or if there is no such agreement, the sum of
or 
% of the total Base Rent) for the brokerage services rendered 
by the Brokers.
1.11 Guarantor.  The obligations of the Lessee under this Lease are to be guaranteed by
("Guarantor").  (See also Paragraph 37)
1.12 Attachments. Attached hereto are the following, all of which constitute a part of this Lease: 
An Addendum consisting of Paragraphs     50
through    56
;
A Site Plan and floor plan;
A current set of the Rules and Regulations for the Project;
131 of 460

--- page 132 ---
INITIALS
© 2019 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
MTN-26.30, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 2 of 18
a current set of the Rules and Regulations adopted by the owners' association; 
a Work Letter;
other (specify): 
.
2.
Premises.
2.1
Letting. Lessor hereby leases to Lessee, and Lessee hereby leases from Lessor, the Premises, for the term, at the rental, and upon all of the terms, 
covenants and conditions set forth in this Lease. While the approximate square footage of the Premises may have been used in the marketing of the Premises for 
purposes of comparison, the Base Rent stated herein is NOT tied to square footage and is not subject to adjustment should the actual size be determined to be 
different.   NOTE: Lessee is advised to verify the actual size prior to executing this Lease.
2.2
Condition. Lessor shall deliver that portion of the Premises contained within the Building ("Unit") to Lessee broom clean and free of debris on the 
Commencement Date or the Early Possession Date, whichever first occurs ("Start Date"), and, so long as the required service contracts described in Paragraph 7.1(b) 
below are obtained by Lessee and in effect within thirty days following the Start Date, warrants that the existing electrical, plumbing, fire sprinkler, lighting, heating, 
ventilating and air conditioning systems ("HVAC"), loading doors, sump pumps, if any, and all other such elements in the Unit, other than those constructed by Lessee, 
shall be in good operating condition on said date, that the structural elements of the roof, bearing walls and foundation of the Unit shall be free of material defects, 
and that the Unit does not contain hazardous levels of any mold or fungi defined as toxic under applicable state or federal law.  If a non-compliance with such 
warranty exists as of the Start Date, or if one of such systems or elements should malfunction or fail within the appropriate warranty period, Lessor shall, as Lessor's 
sole obligation with respect to such matter, except as otherwise provided in this Lease, promptly after receipt of written notice from Lessee setting forth with 
specificity the nature and extent of such non-compliance, malfunction or failure, rectify same at Lessor's expense. The warranty periods shall be as follows: (i) 6 
months as to the HVAC systems, and (ii) 30 days as to the remaining systems and other elements of the Unit. If Lessee does not give Lessor the required notice within 
the appropriate warranty period, correction of any such non-compliance, malfunction or failure shall be the obligation of Lessee at Lessee's sole cost and expense 
(except for the repairs to the fire sprinkler systems, roof, foundations, and/or bearing walls - see Paragraph 7). Lessor also warrants, that unless otherwise specified in 
writing, Lessor is unaware of (i) any recorded Notices of Default affecting the Premise; (ii) any delinquent amounts due under any loan secured by the Premises; and
(iii) any bankruptcy proceeding affecting the Premises.
2.3
Compliance. Lessor warrants that to the best of its knowledge the improvements on the Premises comply with the building codes, applicable laws, 
covenants or restrictions of record, regulations, and ordinances ("Applicable Requirements") that were in effect at the time that each improvement, or portion 
thereof, was constructed. Said warranty does not apply to the use to which Lessee will put the Premises, modifications which may be required by the Americans with 
Disabilities Act or any similar laws as a result of Lessee's use (see Paragraph 49), or to any Alterations or Utility Installations (as defined in Paragraph 7.3(a)) made or to 
be made  by Lessee.   NOTE: Lessee is responsible for determining whether or not the Applicable Requirements, and especially the zoning are appropriate for   
Lessee's intended use, and acknowledges that past uses of the Premises may no longer be allowed. If the Premises do not comply with said warranty, Lessor shall, 
except as otherwise provided, promptly after receipt of written notice from Lessee setting forth with specificity the nature and extent of such non-compliance, rectify 
the same at Lessor's expense. If Lessee does not give Lessor written notice of a non-compliance with this warranty within 6 months following the Start Date, 
correction of that non-compliance shall be the obligation of Lessee at Lessee's sole cost and expense. If the Applicable Requirements are hereafter changed so as to 
require during the term of this Lease the construction of an addition to or an alteration of the Unit, Premises and/or Building, the remediation of any Hazardous 
Substance, or the reinforcement or other physical modification of the Unit, Premises and/or Building ("Capital Expenditure"), Lessor and Lessee shall allocate the cost 
of such work as follows:
(a)
Subject to Paragraph 2.3(c) below, if such Capital Expenditures are required as a result of the specific and unique use of the Premises by Lessee as 
compared with uses by tenants in general, Lessee shall be fully responsible for the cost thereof, provided, however, that if such Capital Expenditure is required during 
the last 2 years of this Lease and the cost thereof exceeds 6 months' Base Rent, Lessee may instead terminate this Lease unless Lessor notifies Lessee, in writing, 
within 10 days after receipt of Lessee's termination notice that Lessor has elected to pay the difference between the actual cost thereof and the amount equal to 6 
months' Base Rent. If Lessee elects termination, Lessee shall immediately cease the use of the Premises which requires such Capital Expenditure and deliver to Lessor 
written notice specifying a termination date at least 90 days thereafter.  Such termination date shall, however, in no event be earlier than the last day that Lessee 
could legally utilize the Premises without commencing such Capital Expenditure.
(b)
If such Capital Expenditure is not the result of the specific and unique use of the Premises by Lessee (such as, governmentally mandated seismic 
modifications), then Lessor shall pay for such Capital Expenditure and Lessee shall only be obligated to pay, each month during the remainder of the term of this Lease 
or any extension thereof, on the date that on which the Base Rent is due, an amount equal to 1/144th of the portion of such costs reasonably attributable to the 
Premises.  Lessee shall pay Interest on the balance but may prepay its obligation at any time.  If, however, such Capital Expenditure is required during the last 2 years 
of this Lease or if Lessor reasonably determines that it is not economically feasible to pay its share thereof, Lessor shall have the option to terminate this Lease upon 
90 days prior written notice to Lessee unless Lessee notifies Lessor, in writing, within 30 days after receipt of Lessor's termination notice that Lessee will pay for such 
Capital Expenditure. If Lessor does not elect to terminate, and fails to tender its share of any such Capital Expenditure, Lessee may advance such funds and deduct 
same, with Interest, from Rent until Lessor's share of such costs have been fully paid. If Lessee is unable to finance Lessor's share, or if the balance of the Rent due 
and payable for the remainder of this Lease is not sufficient to fully reimburse Lessee on an offset basis, Lessee shall have the right to terminate this Lease upon 30 
days written notice to Lessor.
(c)
Notwithstanding the above, the provisions concerning Capital Expenditures are intended to apply only to non-voluntary, unexpected, and new 
Applicable Requirements. If the Capital Expenditures are instead triggered by Lessee as a result of an actual or proposed change in use, change in intensity of use, or 
modification to the Premises then, and in that event, Lessee shall either: (i) immediately cease such changed use or intensity of use and/or take such other steps as 
may be necessary to eliminate the requirement for such Capital Expenditure, or (ii) complete such Capital Expenditure at its own expense. Lessee shall not have any 
right to terminate this Lease.
2.4
Acknowledgements. Lessee acknowledges that: (a) it has been given an opportunity to inspect and measure the Premises; (b) it has been advised by 
Lessor and/or Brokers to satisfy itself with respect to the size and condition of the Premises (including but not limited to the electrical, HVAC and fire sprinkler 
systems, security, environmental aspects, and compliance with Applicable Requirements and the Americans with Disabilities Act), and their suitability for Lessee's 
intended use; (c) Lessee has made such investigation as it deems necessary with reference to such matters and assumes all responsibility therefor as the same relate 
to its occupancy of the Premises; (d) it is not relying on any representation as to the size of the Premises made by Brokers or Lessor; (e) the square footage of the 
Premises was not material to Lessee's decision to lease the Premises and pay the Rent stated herein; and (f) neither Lessor, Lessor's agents, nor Brokers have made 
any oral or written representations or warranties with respect to said matters other than as set forth in this Lease. In addition, Lessor acknowledges that: (i) Brokers 
have made no representations, promises or warranties concerning Lessee's ability to honor the Lease or suitability to occupy the Premises and (ii) it is Lessor's sole 
responsibility to investigate the financial capability and/or suitability of all proposed tenants.
132 of 460

--- page 133 ---
INITIALS
© 2019 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
MTN-26.30, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 3 of 18
2.5
Lessee as Prior Owner/Occupant. The warranties made by Lessor in Paragraph 2 shall be of no force or effect if immediately prior to the Start Date Lessee 
was the owner or occupant of the Premises. In such event, Lessee shall be responsible for any necessary corrective work.
2.6
Vehicle Parking. Lessee shall be entitled to use the number of Parking Spaces specified in Paragraph 1.2(b) on those portions of the Common Areas 
designated from time to time by Lessor for parking. Lessee shall not use more parking spaces than said number. Said parking spaces shall be used for parking by 
vehicles no larger than full-size passenger automobiles or pick-up trucks, herein called "Permitted Size Vehicles." Lessor may regulate the loading and unloading of 
vehicles by adopting Rules and Regulations as provided in Paragraph 2.9. No vehicles other than Permitted Size Vehicles may be parked in the Common Area without 
the prior written permission of Lessor.  In addition:
(a)
Lessee shall not permit or allow any vehicles that belong to or are controlled by Lessee or Lessee's employees, suppliers, shippers, customers, 
contractors or invitees to be loaded, unloaded, or parked in areas other than those designated by Lessor for such activities.
(b)
Lessee shall not service or store any vehicles in the Common Areas.
(c)
If Lessee permits or allows any of the prohibited activities described in this Paragraph 2.6, then Lessor shall have the right, without notice, in addition 
to such other rights and remedies that it may have, to remove or tow away the vehicle involved and charge the cost to Lessee, which cost shall be immediately 
payable upon demand by Lessor.
2.7
Common Areas - Definition. The term "Common Areas" is defined as all areas and facilities outside the Premises and within the exterior boundary line of 
the Project and interior utility raceways and installations within the Unit that are provided and designated by the Lessor from time to time for the general
non-exclusive use of Lessor, Lessee and other tenants of the Project and their respective employees, suppliers, shippers, customers, contractors and invitees, including 
parking areas, loading and unloading areas, trash areas, roofs, roadways, walkways, driveways and landscaped areas.
2.8
Common Areas - Lessee's Rights. Lessor grants to Lessee, for the benefit of Lessee and its employees, suppliers, shippers, contractors, customers and 
invitees, during the term of this Lease, the non-exclusive right to use, in common with others entitled to such use, the Common Areas as they exist from time to time, 
subject to any rights, powers, and privileges reserved by Lessor under the terms hereof or under the terms of any rules and regulations or restrictions governing the 
use of the Project. Under no circumstances shall the right herein granted to use the Common Areas be deemed to include the right to store any property, temporarily 
or permanently, in the Common Areas. Any such storage shall be permitted only by the prior written consent of Lessor or Lessor's designated agent, which consent 
may be revoked at any time. In the event that any unauthorized storage shall occur, then Lessor shall have the right, without notice, in addition to such other rights 
and remedies that it may have, to remove the property and charge the cost to Lessee, which cost shall be immediately payable upon demand by Lessor.
2.9
Common Areas - Rules and Regulations. Lessor or such other person(s) as Lessor may appoint shall have the exclusive control and management of the 
Common Areas and shall have the right, from time to time, to establish, modify, amend and enforce reasonable rules and regulations ("Rules and Regulations") for 
the management, safety, care, and cleanliness of the grounds, the parking and unloading of vehicles and the preservation of good order, as well as for the convenience 
of other occupants or tenants of the Building and the Project and their invitees.  Lessee agrees to abide by and conform to all such Rules and Regulations, and shall 
use its best efforts to cause its employees, suppliers, shippers, customers, contractors and invitees to so abide and conform. Lessor shall not be responsible to Lessee 
for the non-compliance with said Rules and Regulations by other tenants of the Project.
2.10 Common Areas - Changes. Lessor shall have the right, in Lessor's sole discretion, from time to time:
(a)
To make changes to the Common Areas, including, without limitation, changes in the location, size, shape and number of driveways, entrances, 
parking spaces, parking areas, loading and unloading areas, ingress, egress, direction of traffic, landscaped areas, walkways and utility raceways;
(b)
To close temporarily any of the Common Areas for maintenance purposes so long as reasonable access to the Premises remains available;
(c)
To designate other land outside the boundaries of the Project to be a part of the Common Areas;
(d)
To add additional buildings and improvements to the Common Areas;
(e)
To use the Common Areas while engaged in making additional improvements, repairs or alterations to the Project, or any portion thereof; and
(f)
To do and perform such other acts and make such other changes in, to or with respect to the Common Areas and Project as Lessor may, in the 
exercise of sound business judgment, deem to be appropriate.
3.
Term.
3.1
Term. The Commencement Date, Expiration Date and Original Term of this Lease are as specified in Paragraph 1.3.
3.2
Early Possession. Any provision herein granting Lessee Early Possession of the Premises is subject to and conditioned upon the Premises being available 
for such possession prior to the Commencement Date. Any grant of Early Possession only conveys a non-exclusive right to occupy the Premises. If Lessee totally or 
partially occupies the Premises prior to the Commencement Date, the obligation to pay Base Rent shall be abated for the period of such Early Possession. All other 
terms of this Lease (including but not limited to the obligations to pay Lessee's Share of Common Area Operating Expenses, Real Property Taxes and insurance 
premiums and to maintain the Premises) shall be in effect during such period. Any such Early Possession shall not affect the Expiration Date.
3.3
Delay In Possession.  Lessor agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to deliver exclusive possession of the Premises to Lessee by the 
Commencement Date. If, despite said efforts, Lessor is unable to deliver possession by such date, Lessor shall not be subject to any liability therefor, nor shall such 
failure affect the validity of this Lease or change the Expiration Date. Lessee shall not, however, be obligated to pay Rent or perform its other obligations until Lessor 
delivers possession of the Premises and any period of rent abatement that Lessee would otherwise have enjoyed shall run from the date of delivery of possession and 
continue for a period equal to what Lessee would otherwise have enjoyed under the terms hereof, but minus any days of delay caused by the acts or omissions of 
Lessee. If possession is not delivered within 60 days after the Commencement Date, as the same may be extended under the terms of any Work Letter executed by 
Parties, Lessee may, at its option, by notice in writing within 10 days after the end of such 60 day period, cancel this Lease, in which event the Parties shall be 
discharged from all obligations hereunder. If such written notice is not received by Lessor within said 10 day period, Lessee's right to cancel shall terminate. If 
possession of the Premises is not delivered within 120 days after the Commencement Date, this Lease shall terminate unless other agreements are reached between 
Lessor and Lessee, in writing.
3.4
Lessee Compliance.  Lessor shall not be required to tender possession of the Premises to Lessee until Lessee complies with its obligation to provide 
evidence of insurance (Paragraph 8.5). Pending delivery of such evidence, Lessee shall be required to perform all of its obligations under this Lease from and after the 
Start Date, including the payment of Rent, notwithstanding Lessor's election to withhold possession pending receipt of such evidence of insurance.  Further, if Lessee 
is required to perform any other conditions prior to or concurrent with the Start Date, the Start Date shall occur but Lessor may elect to withhold possession until such 
conditions are satisfied.
4.
Rent.
4.1.   Rent Defined. All monetary obligations of Lessee to Lessor under the terms of this Lease (except for the Security Deposit) are deemed to be rent ("Rent").
133 of 460

--- page 134 ---
INITIALS
© 2019 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
MTN-26.30, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 4 of 18
4.2
Payment. Lessee shall cause payment of Rent to be received by Lessor in lawful money of the United States, without offset or deduction (except as 
specifically permitted in this Lease), on or before the day on which it is due. All monetary amounts shall be rounded to the nearest whole dollar. In the event that any 
statement or invoice prepared by Lessor is inaccurate such inaccuracy shall not constitute a waiver and Lessee shall be obligated to pay the amount set forth in this 
Lease. Rent for any period during the term hereof which is for less than one full calendar month shall be prorated based upon the actual number of days of said 
month. Payment of Rent shall be made to Lessor at its address stated herein or to such other persons or place as Lessor may from time to time designate in writing. 
Acceptance of a payment which is less than the amount then due shall not be a waiver of Lessor's rights to the balance of such Rent, regardless of Lessor's 
endorsement of any check so stating.  In the event that any check, draft, or other instrument of payment given by Lessee to Lessor is dishonored for any reason, 
Lessee agrees to pay to Lessor the sum of $25 in addition to any Late Charge to compensate Lessor for additional time and expenses incurred in handling the 
dishonored payment and Lessor, at its option, may require all future Rent be paid by cashier's check. Payments will be applied first to accrued late charges and 
attorney's fees, second to accrued interest, then to Base Rent and Common Area Operating Expenses, and any remaining amount to any other outstanding charges or 
costs.
5.
Security Deposit. Lessee shall deposit with Lessor upon execution hereof the Security Deposit as security for Lessee's faithful performance of its obligations 
under this Lease. If Lessee fails to pay Rent, or otherwise Defaults under this Lease, Lessor may use, apply or retain all or any portion of said Security Deposit for the 
payment of any amount already due Lessor, for Rents which will be due in the future, and/ or to reimburse or compensate Lessor for any liability, expense, loss or 
damage which Lessor may suffer or incur by reason thereof.  If Lessor uses or applies all or any portion of the Security Deposit, Lessee shall within 10 days after 
written request therefor deposit monies with Lessor sufficient to restore said Security Deposit to the full amount required by this Lease. If the Base Rent increases 
during the term of this Lease, Lessee shall, upon written request from Lessor, deposit additional monies with Lessor so that the total amount of the Security Deposit 
shall at all times bear the same proportion to the increased Base Rent as the initial Security Deposit bore to the initial Base Rent. Should the Agreed Use be amended 
to accommodate a material change in the business of Lessee or to accommodate a sublessee or assignee, Lessor shall have the right to increase the Security Deposit 
to the extent necessary, in Lessor's reasonable judgment, to account for any increased wear and tear that the Premises may suffer as a result thereof. If a change in 
control of Lessee occurs during this Lease and following such change the financial condition of Lessee is, in Lessor's reasonable judgment, significantly reduced, Lessee 
shall deposit such additional monies with Lessor as shall be sufficient to cause the Security Deposit to be at a commercially reasonable level based on such change in 
financial condition. Lessor shall not be required to keep the Security Deposit separate from its general accounts. Within 90 days after the expiration or termination of 
this Lease, Lessor shall return that portion of the Security Deposit not used or applied by Lessor. Lessor shall upon written request provide Lessee with an accounting 
showing how that portion of the Security Deposit that was not returned was applied. No part of the Security Deposit shall bear interest or be considered prepayment 
for any monies to be paid by Lessee under this Lease. THE SECURITY DEPOSIT SHALL NOT BE USED BY LESSEE IN LIEU OF PAYMENT OF THE LAST MONTH'S RENT.
6.
Use.
6.1
Use. Lessee shall use and occupy the Premises only for the Agreed Use, or any other legal use which is reasonably comparable thereto, and for no other 
purpose.  Lessee shall not use or permit the use of the Premises in a manner that is unlawful, creates damage, waste or a nuisance, or that disturbs occupants of or
causes damage to neighboring premises or properties. Other than guide, signal and seeing eye dogs, Lessee shall not keep or allow in the Premises any pets, animals, 
birds, fish, or reptiles. Lessor shall not unreasonably withhold or delay its consent to any written request for a modification of the Agreed Use, so long as the same will 
not impair the structural integrity of the Building or the mechanical or electrical systems therein, and/or is not significantly more burdensome to the Project. If Lessor 
elects to withhold consent, Lessor shall within 7 days after such request give written notification of same, which notice shall include an explanation of Lessor's 
objections to the change in the Agreed Use.
6.2
Hazardous  Substances.
(a)
Reportable Uses Require Consent. The term "Hazardous Substance" as used in this Lease shall mean any product, substance, or waste whose 
presence, use, manufacture, disposal, transportation, or release, either by itself or in combination with other materials expected to be on the Premises, is either: (i) 
potentially injurious to the public health, safety or welfare, the environment or the Premises, (ii) regulated or monitored by any governmental authority, or (iii) a basis 
for potential liability of Lessor to any governmental agency or third party under any applicable statute or common law theory. Hazardous Substances shall include, but 
not be limited to, hydrocarbons, petroleum, gasoline, and/or crude oil or any products, by-products or fractions thereof.  Lessee shall not engage in any activity in or 
on the Premises which constitutes a Reportable Use of Hazardous Substances without the express prior written consent of Lessor and timely compliance (at Lessee's 
expense) with all Applicable Requirements. "Reportable Use" shall mean (i) the installation or use of any above or below ground storage tank, (ii) the generation, 
possession, storage, use, transportation, or disposal of a Hazardous Substance that requires a permit from, or with respect to which a report, notice, registration or 
business plan is required to be filed with, any governmental authority, and/or (iii) the presence at the Premises of a Hazardous Substance with respect to which any 
Applicable Requirements requires that a notice be given to persons entering or occupying the Premises or neighboring properties. Notwithstanding the foregoing, 
Lessee may use any ordinary and customary materials reasonably required to be used in the normal course of the Agreed Use, ordinary office supplies (copier toner, 
liquid paper, glue, etc.) and common household cleaning materials, so long as such use is in compliance with all Applicable Requirements, is not a Reportable Use, and 
does not expose the Premises or neighboring property to any meaningful risk of contamination or damage or expose Lessor to any liability therefor.  In addition, 
Lessor may condition its consent to any Reportable Use upon receiving such additional assurances as Lessor reasonably deems necessary to protect itself, the public, 
the Premises and/or the environment against damage, contamination, injury and/or liability, including, but not limited to, the installation (and removal on or before 
Lease expiration or termination) of protective modifications (such as concrete encasements) and/or increasing the Security Deposit.
(b)
Duty to Inform Lessor. If Lessee knows, or has reasonable cause to believe, that a Hazardous Substance has come to be located in, on, under or 
about the Premises, other than as previously consented to by Lessor, Lessee shall immediately give written notice of such fact to Lessor, and provide Lessor with a 
copy of any report, notice, claim or other documentation which it has concerning the presence of such Hazardous Substance.
(c)
Lessee Remediation. Lessee shall not cause or permit any Hazardous Substance to be spilled or released in, on, under, or about the Premises 
(including through the plumbing or sanitary sewer system) and shall promptly, at Lessee's expense, comply with all Applicable Requirements and take all investigatory 
and/or remedial action reasonably recommended, whether or not formally ordered or required, for the cleanup of any contamination of, and for the maintenance, 
security and/or monitoring of the Premises or neighboring properties, that was caused or materially contributed to by Lessee, or pertaining to or involving any 
Hazardous Substance brought onto the Premises during the term of this Lease, by or for Lessee, or any third party.
(d)
Lessee Indemnification. Lessee shall indemnify, defend and hold Lessor, its agents, employees, lenders and ground lessor, if any, harmless from and 
against any and all loss of rents and/or damages, liabilities, judgments, claims, expenses, penalties, and attorneys' and consultants' fees arising out of or involving any 
Hazardous Substance brought onto the Premises by or for Lessee, or any third party (provided, however, that Lessee shall have no liability under this Lease with 
respect to underground migration of any Hazardous Substance under the Premises from areas outside of the Project not caused or contributed to by Lessee). Lessee's 
obligations shall include, but not be limited to, the effects of any contamination or injury to person, property or the environment created or suffered by Lessee, and 
the cost of investigation, removal, remediation, restoration and/or abatement, and shall survive the expiration or termination of this Lease. No termination, 
cancellation or release agreement entered into by Lessor and Lessee shall release Lessee from its obligations under this Lease with respect to Hazardous Substances, 
134 of 460

--- page 135 ---
INITIALS
© 2019 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
MTN-26.30, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 5 of 18
unless specifically so agreed by Lessor in writing at the time of such agreement.
(e)
Lessor Indemnification. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 8.7, Lessor and its successors and assigns shall indemnify, defend, reimburse and 
hold Lessee, its employees and lenders, harmless from and against any and all environmental damages, including the cost of remediation, which are suffered as a 
direct result of Hazardous Substances on the Premises prior to Lessee taking possession or which are caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of Lessor, its 
agents or employees. Lessor's obligations, as and when required by the Applicable Requirements, shall include, but not be limited to, the cost of investigation, 
removal, remediation, restoration and/or abatement, and shall survive the expiration or termination of this Lease.
(f)
Investigations and Remediations. Lessor shall retain the responsibility and pay for any investigations or remediation measures required by 
governmental entities having jurisdiction with respect to the existence of Hazardous Substances on the Premises prior to the Lessee taking possession, unless such 
remediation measure is required as a result of Lessee's use (including "Alterations", as defined in paragraph 7.3(a) below) of the Premises, in which event Lessee shall 
be responsible for such payment. Lessee shall cooperate fully in any such activities at the request of Lessor, including allowing Lessor and Lessor's agents to have 
reasonable access to the Premises at reasonable times in order to carry out Lessor's investigative and remedial responsibilities.
(g)
Lessor Termination Option. If a Hazardous Substance Condition (see Paragraph 9.1(e)) occurs during the term of this Lease, unless Lessee is legally 
responsible therefor (in which case Lessee shall make the investigation and remediation thereof required by the Applicable Requirements and this Lease shall continue 
in full force and effect, but subject to Lessor's rights under Paragraph 6.2(d) and Paragraph 13), Lessor may, at Lessor's option, either (i) investigate and remediate such 
Hazardous Substance Condition, if required, as soon as reasonably possible at Lessor's expense, in which event this Lease shall continue in full force and effect, or (ii) if 
the estimated cost to remediate such condition exceeds 12 times the then monthly Base Rent or $100,000, whichever is greater, give written notice to Lessee, within 
30 days after receipt by Lessor of knowledge of the occurrence of such Hazardous Substance Condition, of Lessor's desire to terminate this Lease as of the date 60 
days following the date of such notice.  In the event Lessor elects to give a termination notice, Lessee may, within 30 days thereafter, give written notice to Lessor of 
Lessee's commitment to pay the amount by which the cost of the remediation of such Hazardous Substance Condition exceeds an amount equal to 12 times the then 
monthly Base Rent or $100,000, whichever is greater. Lessee shall provide Lessor with said funds or satisfactory assurance thereof within 30 days following such 
commitment. In such event, this Lease shall continue in full force and effect, and Lessor shall proceed to make such remediation as soon as reasonably possible after 
the required funds are available. If Lessee does not give such notice and provide the required funds or assurance thereof within the time provided, this Lease shall 
terminate as of the date specified in Lessor's notice of termination.
6.3
Lessee's Compliance with Applicable Requirements. Except as otherwise provided in this Lease, Lessee shall, at Lessee's sole expense, fully, diligently and 
in a timely manner, materially comply with all Applicable Requirements, the requirements of any applicable fire insurance underwriter or rating bureau, and the 
recommendations of Lessor's engineers and/or consultants which relate in any manner to the Premises, without regard to whether said Applicable Requirements are 
now in effect or become effective after the Start Date. Lessee shall, within 10 days after receipt of Lessor's written request, provide Lessor with copies of all permits 
and other documents, and other information evidencing Lessee's compliance with any Applicable Requirements specified by Lessor, and shall immediately upon 
receipt, notify Lessor in writing (with copies of any documents involved) of any threatened or actual claim, notice, citation, warning, complaint or report pertaining to 
or involving the failure of Lessee or the Premises to comply with any Applicable Requirements. Likewise, Lessee shall immediately give written notice to Lessor of: (i)
any water damage to the Premises and any suspected seepage, pooling, dampness or other condition conducive to the production of mold; or (ii) any mustiness or 
other odors that might indicate the presence of mold in the Premises.
6.4
Inspection; Compliance. Lessor and Lessor's "Lender" (as defined in Paragraph 30) and consultants authorized by Lessor shall have the right to enter into 
Premises at any time in the case of an emergency, and otherwise at reasonable times after reasonable notice, for the purpose of inspecting and/or testing the 
condition of the Premises and/or for verifying compliance by Lessee with this Lease. The cost of any such inspections shall be paid by Lessor, unless a violation of 
Applicable Requirements, or a Hazardous Substance Condition (see Paragraph 9.1(e)) is found to exist or be imminent, or the inspection is requested or ordered by a 
governmental authority.  In such case, Lessee shall upon request reimburse Lessor for the cost of such inspection, so long as such inspection is reasonably related to 
the violation or contamination. In addition, Lessee shall provide copies of all relevant material safety data sheets (MSDS) to Lessor within 20 days of the receipt of 
written request therefor.  Lessee acknowledges that any failure on its part to allow such inspections or testing will expose Lessor to risks and potentially cause Lessor 
to incur costs not contemplated by this Lease, the extent of which will be extremely difficult to ascertain. Accordingly, should the Lessee fail to allow such inspections 
and/or testing in a timely fashion the Base Rent shall be automatically increased, without any requirement for notice to Lessee, by an amount equal to 10% of the 
then existing Base Rent or $100, whichever is greater for the remainder to the Lease. The Parties agree that such increase in Base Rent represents fair and reasonable 
compensation for the additional risk/costs that Lessor will incur by reason of Lessee's failure to allow such inspection and/or testing.  Such increase in Base Rent shall 
in no event constitute a waiver of Lessee's Default or Breach with respect to such failure nor prevent the exercise of any of the other rights and remedies granted 
hereunder.
7.
Maintenance; Repairs; Utility Installations; Trade Fixtures and Alterations.
7.1
Lessee's Obligations.
(a)
In General. Subject to the provisions of Paragraph 2.2 (Condition), 2.3 (Compliance), 6.3 (Lessee's Compliance with Applicable Requirements), 7.2 
(Lessor's Obligations), 9 (Damage or Destruction), and 14 (Condemnation), Lessee shall, at Lessee's sole expense, keep the Premises, Utility Installations (intended for 
Lessee's exclusive use, no matter where located), and Alterations in good order, condition and repair (whether or not the portion of the Premises requiring repairs, or 
the means of repairing the same, are reasonably or readily accessible to Lessee, and whether or not the need for such repairs occurs as a result of Lessee's use, any 
prior use, the elements or the age of such portion of the Premises), including, but not limited to, all equipment or facilities, such as plumbing, HVAC equipment, 
electrical, lighting facilities, boilers, pressure vessels, fixtures, interior walls, interior surfaces of exterior walls, ceilings, floors, and skylights but excluding any items 
which are the responsibility of Lessor pursuant to Paragraph 7.2. Lessee, in keeping the Premises in good order, condition and repair, shall exercise and perform good 
maintenance practices, specifically including the procurement and maintenance of the service contracts required by Paragraph 7.1(b) below. Lessee's obligations shall 
include restorations, replacements or renewals when necessary to keep the Premises and all improvements thereon or a part thereof in good order, condition and 
state of repair.
(b)
Failure to Perform. If Lessee fails to perform Lessee's obligations under this Paragraph 7.1, Lessor may enter upon the Premises after 15 days' prior 
written notice to Lessee (except in the case of an emergency, in which case no notice shall be required), perform such obligations on Lessee's behalf, and put the 
Premises in good order, condition and repair, and Lessee shall promptly pay to Lessor a sum equal to 115% of the cost thereof.
(c)
Replacement. Subject to Lessee's indemnification of Lessor as set forth in Paragraph 8.7 below, and without relieving Lessee of liability resulting from 
Lessee's failure to exercise and perform good maintenance practices, if an item described in Paragraph 7.1(b) cannot be repaired other than at a cost which is in excess 
of 50% of the cost of replacing such item, then such item shall be replaced by Lessor, and the cost thereof shall be prorated between the Parties and Lessee shall only 
be obligated to pay, each month during the remainder of the term of this Lease or any extension thereof, on the date on which Base Rent is due, an amount equal to 
the product of multiplying the cost of such replacement by a fraction, the numerator of which is one, and the denominator of which is 144 (i.e. 1/144th of the cost per 
month). Lessee shall pay Interest on the unamortized balance but may prepay its obligation at any time.
135 of 460

--- page 136 ---
INITIALS
© 2019 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
MTN-26.30, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 6 of 18
7.2
Lessor's Obligations. Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 2.2 (Condition), 2.3 (Compliance), 6 (Use), 7.1 (Lessee's Obligations), 9 (Damage or 
Destruction) and 14 (Condemnation), Lessor, shall keep in good order, condition and repair the foundations, exterior walls, plate glass windows and exterior doors,  
structural condition of interior bearing walls, exterior roof, fire   sprinkler system, Common Area fire alarm and/or smoke detection systems, fire hydrants, parking 
lots, walkways, parkways, driveways, landscaping, fences, signs and utility systems serving the Common Areas and all parts thereof, as well as providing the services 
for which there is a Common Area Operating Expense pursuant to Paragraph 4.2. Lessor shall not be obligated to paint the exterior or interior surfaces of exterior 
walls nor shall Lessor be obligated to maintain, repair or replace windows, doors or plate glass of the Premises.
7.3
Utility Installations; Trade  Fixtures; Alterations.
(a)
Definitions. The term "Utility Installations" refers to all floor and window coverings, air and/or vacuum lines, power panels, electrical distribution, 
security and fire protection systems, communication cabling, lighting fixtures, HVAC equipment, plumbing, and fencing in or on the Premises. The term "Trade 
Fixtures" shall mean Lessee's machinery and equipment that can be removed without doing material damage to the Premises. The term "Alterations" shall mean any 
modification of the improvements, other than Utility Installations or Trade Fixtures, whether by addition or deletion. "Lessee Owned Alterations and/or Utility 
Installations" are defined as Alterations and/or Utility Installations made by Lessee that are not yet owned by Lessor pursuant to Paragraph 7.4(a).
(b)
Consent. Lessee shall not make any Alterations or Utility Installations to the Premises without Lessor's prior written consent. Lessee may, however, 
make non-structural Alterations or Utility Installations to the interior of the Premises (excluding the roof) without such consent but upon notice to Lessor, as long as 
they are not visible from the outside, do not involve puncturing, relocating or removing the roof or any existing walls, will not affect the electrical, plumbing, HVAC, 
and/or life safety systems, do not trigger the requirement for additional modifications and/or improvements to the Premises resulting from Applicable Requirements, 
such as compliance with Title 24, and/or life safety systems, and the cumulative cost thereof during this Lease as extended does not exceed a sum equal to 3 month's 
Base Rent in the aggregate or a sum equal to one month's Base Rent in any one year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Lessee shall not make or permit any roof 
penetrations and/or install anything on the roof without the prior written approval of Lessor.  Lessor may, as a precondition to granting such approval, require Lessee 
to utilize a contractor chosen and/or approved by Lessor. Any Alterations or Utility Installations that Lessee shall desire to make and which require the consent of the 
Lessor shall be presented to Lessor in written form with detailed plans. Consent shall be deemed conditioned upon Lessee's: (i) acquiring all applicable governmental 
permits, (ii) furnishing Lessor with copies of both the permits and the plans and specifications prior to commencement of the work, and (iii) compliance with all 
conditions of said permits and other Applicable Requirements, including compliance with state prevailing wage laws in the event that tenant  
improvements or repairs constitute "public works" in accordance with Labor Code section 1720 in a  prompt and expeditious  manner.   Any         
Alterations or Utility Installations shall be performed in a workmanlike manner with good and sufficient materials. Lessee shall promptly upon completion furnish 
Lessor with as-built plans and specifications. For work which costs an amount in excess of one month's Base Rent, Lessor may condition its consent upon Lessee 
providing a lien and completion bond in an amount equal to 150% of the estimated cost of such Alteration or Utility Installation and/or upon Lessee's posting an 
additional Security Deposit with Lessor.
(c)
Liens; Bonds. Lessee shall pay, when due, all claims for labor or materials furnished or alleged to have been furnished to or for Lessee at or for use on 
the Premises, which claims are or may be secured by any mechanic's or materialmen's lien against the Premises or any interest therein.  Lessee 
shall give Lessor not less than 10 days notice prior to the commencement of any work in, on or about the Premises, and Lessor shall have the 
right to post notices of non-responsibility. If Lessee shall contest the validity of any such lien, claim or demand, then Lessee shall, at its sole 
expense defend and protect itself, Lessor and the Premises against the same and shall pay and satisfy any such adverse judgment that may be 
rendered thereon before the enforcement thereof.  If Lessor shall require, Lessee shall furnish a surety bond in an amount equal to 150% of the 
amount of such contested lien, claim or demand, indemnifying Lessor against liability for the same.  If Lessor elects to participate in any such 
action, Lessee shall pay Lessor's attorneys' fees and costs.
136 of 460

--- page 137 ---
INITIALS
© 2019 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
MTN-26.30, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 7 of 18
7.4
Ownership; Removal; Surrender; and Restoration.
(a)
Ownership. Subject to Lessor's right to require removal or elect ownership as hereinafter provided, all Alterations and Utility Installations made by 
Lessee shall be the property of Lessee, but considered a part of the Premises. Lessor may, at any time, elect in writing to be the owner of all or any specified part of 
the Lessee Owned Alterations and Utility Installations. Unless otherwise instructed per paragraph 7.4(b) hereof, all Lessee Owned Alterations and Utility Installations 
shall, at the expiration or termination of this Lease, become the property of Lessor and be surrendered by Lessee with the Premises.
(b)
Removal. By delivery to Lessee of written notice from Lessor not earlier than 90 and not later than 30 days prior to the end of the term of this Lease, 
Lessor may require that any or all Lessee Owned Alterations or Utility Installations be removed by the expiration or termination of this Lease. Lessor may require the 
removal at any time of all or any part of any Lessee Owned Alterations or Utility Installations made without the required consent.
(c)
Surrender; Restoration. Lessee shall surrender the Premises by the Expiration Date or any earlier termination date, with all of the improvements, 
parts and surfaces thereof broom clean and free of debris, and in good operating order, condition and state of repair, ordinary wear and tear excepted. "Ordinary 
wear and tear" shall not include any damage or deterioration that would have been prevented by good maintenance practice. Notwithstanding the foregoing and the 
provisions of Paragraph 7.1(a), if the Lessee occupies the Premises for 12 months or less, then Lessee shall surrender the Premises in the same condition as delivered 
to Lessee on the Start Date with NO allowance for ordinary wear and tear. Lessee shall repair any damage occasioned by the installation, maintenance or removal of 
Trade Fixtures, Lessee owned Alterations and/or Utility Installations, furnishings, and equipment as well as the removal of any storage tank installed by or for Lessee. 
Lessee shall also remove from the Premises any and all Hazardous Substances brought onto the Premises by or for Lessee, or any third party (except Hazardous 
Substances which were deposited via underground migration from areas outside of the Project) to the level specified in Applicable Requirements. Trade Fixtures shall 
remain the property of Lessee and shall be removed by Lessee. Any personal property of Lessee not removed on or before the Expiration Date or any earlier 
termination date shall be deemed to have been abandoned by Lessee and may be disposed of or retained by Lessor as Lessor may desire. The failure by Lessee to 
timely vacate the Premises pursuant to this Paragraph 7.4(c) without the express written consent of Lessor shall constitute a holdover under the provisions of 
Paragraph 26 below.
8.
Insurance; Indemnity.
8.1
Payment of Premiums. The cost of the premiums for the insurance policies required to be carried by Lessor, pursuant to Paragraphs 8.2(b), 8.3(a) and 
8.3(b), shall be a Common Area Operating Expense. Premiums for policy periods commencing prior to, or extending beyond, the term of this Lease shall be prorated 
to coincide with the corresponding Start Date or Expiration Date.
8.2
Liability Insurance.
(a)
Carried by Lessee. Lessee shall obtain and keep in force a Commercial General Liability policy of insurance protecting Lessee and Lessor as an 
additional insured against claims for bodily injury, personal injury and property damage based upon or arising out of the ownership, use, occupancy or maintenance of 
the Premises and all areas appurtenant thereto. Such insurance shall be on an occurrence basis providing single limit coverage in an amount not less than 
$2,000,000 per occurrence with  an annual  aggregate of not  less than  $4,000,000.  Lessee shall  add Lessor, its elected and appointed   officials, 
employees, and agents as an additional insured by means of an endorsement at least as broad as the Insurance Service Organization's "Additional Insured-
Managers or Lessors of Premises" Endorsement. The policy shall not contain any intra-insured exclusions as between insured persons or organizations, but shall 
include coverage for liability assumed under this Lease as an "insured contract" for the performance of Lessee's indemnity obligations under this Lease. The limits 
of said insurance shall not, however, limit the liability of Lessee nor relieve Lessee of any obligation hereunder. Lessee shall provide an endorsement on its liability 
policy(ies) which provides that its insurance shall be primary to and not contributory with any similar insurance carried by Lessor, whose insurance shall be 
considered excess insurance only.
(b)
Carried by Lessor. Lessor shall maintain liability insurance as described in Paragraph 8.2(a), in addition to, and not in lieu of, the insurance required to 
be maintained by Lessee. Lessee shall not be named as an additional insured therein.
8.3
Property Insurance - Building, Improvements and Rental Value.
(a)
Building and Improvements. Lessor shall obtain and keep in force a policy or policies of insurance in the name of Lessor, with loss payable to Lessor, 
any ground-lessor, and to any Lender insuring loss or damage to the Premises. The amount of such insurance shall be equal to the full insurable replacement cost of 
the Premises, as the same shall exist from time to time, or the amount required by any Lender, but in no event more than the commercially reasonable and available 
insurable value thereof. Lessee Owned Alterations and Utility Installations, Trade Fixtures, and Lessee's personal property shall be insured by Lessee not by Lessor. If 
the coverage is available and commercially appropriate, such policy or policies shall insure against all risks of direct physical loss or damage (except the perils of flood 
and/or earthquake unless required by a Lender), including coverage for debris removal and the enforcement of any Applicable Requirements requiring the upgrading, 
demolition, reconstruction or replacement of any portion of the Premises as the result of a covered loss. Said policy or policies shall also contain an agreed valuation 
provision in lieu of any coinsurance clause, waiver of subrogation, and inflation guard protection causing an increase in the annual property insurance coverage 
amount by a factor of not less than the adjusted U.S. Department of Labor Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the city nearest to where the Premises 
are located. If such insurance coverage has a deductible clause, the deductible amount shall not exceed $5,000 per occurrence.
(b)
Rental Value. Lessor shall also obtain and keep in force a policy or policies in the name of Lessor with loss payable to Lessor and any Lender, insuring 
the loss of the full Rent for one year with an extended period of indemnity for an additional 180 days ("Rental Value insurance"). Said insurance shall contain an 
agreed valuation provision in lieu of any coinsurance clause, and the amount of coverage shall be adjusted annually to reflect the projected Rent otherwise payable by 
Lessee, for the next 12 month period.
(c)
Adjacent Premises. Lessee shall pay for any increase in the premiums for the property insurance of the Building and for the Common Areas or other 
buildings in the Project if said increase is caused by Lessee's acts, omissions, use or occupancy of the Premises.
(d)
Lessee's Improvements. Since Lessor is the Insuring Party, Lessor shall not be required to insure Lessee Owned Alterations and Utility Installations 
unless the item in question has become the property of Lessor under the terms of this Lease.
8.4
Lessee's Property; Business Interruption Insurance; Worker's Compensation Insurance.
137 of 460

--- page 138 ---
INITIALS
© 2019 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
MTN-26.30, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 8 of 18
(a)
Property Damage. Lessee shall obtain and maintain insurance coverage on all of Lessee's personal property, Trade Fixtures, and Lessee Owned 
Alterations and Utility Installations. Such insurance shall be full replacement cost coverage with a deductible of not to exceed $1,000 per occurrence. The proceeds 
from any such insurance shall be used by Lessee for the replacement of personal property, Trade Fixtures and Lessee Owned Alterations and Utility Installations.
(b)
Business Interruption. Lessee shall obtain and maintain loss of income and extra expense insurance in amounts as will reimburse Lessee for direct or 
indirect loss of earnings attributable to all perils commonly insured against by prudent lessees in the business of Lessee or attributable to prevention of access to the 
Premises as a result of such perils.
(c)
Worker's Compensation Insurance. Lessee shall obtain and maintain Worker's Compensation Insurance in such amount as may be required by 
Applicable Requirements. Such policy shall include a 'Waiver of Subrogation' endorsement. Lessee shall provide Lessor with a copy of such endorsement along with 
the certificate of insurance or copy of the policy required by paragraph 8.5.
(d)
No Representation of Adequate Coverage. Lessor makes no representation that the limits or forms of coverage of insurance specified herein are 
adequate to cover Lessee's property, business operations or obligations under this Lease.
8.5
Insurance Policies. Insurance required herein shall be by companies maintaining during the policy term a "General Policyholders Rating" of at least A-, VII, 
as set forth in the most current issue of "Best's Insurance Guide", or such other rating as may be required by a Lender. Lessee shall not do or permit to be done 
anything which invalidates the required insurance policies. Lessee shall, prior to the Start Date, deliver to Lessor certified copies of policies of such insurance or 
certificates with copies of the required endorsements evidencing the existence and amounts of the required insurance.  No such policy shall be cancelable or subject 
to modification except after 30 days prior written notice to Lessor. Lessee shall, at least 10 days prior to the expiration of such policies, furnish Lessor with evidence of 
renewals or "insurance binders" evidencing renewal thereof, or Lessor may increase his liability insurance coverage and charge the cost thereof to Lessee, which 
amount shall be payable by Lessee to Lessor upon demand. Such policies shall be for a term of at least one year, or the length of the remaining term of this Lease, 
whichever is less. If either Party shall fail to procure and maintain the insurance required to be carried by it, the other Party may, but shall not be required to, procure 
and maintain the same.
8.6
Waiver of Subrogation. Without affecting any other rights or remedies, Lessee and Lessor each hereby release and relieve the other, and waive their entire 
right to recover damages against the other, for loss of or damage to its property arising out of or incident to the perils required to be insured against herein.  The 
effect of such releases and waivers is not limited by the amount of insurance carried or required, or by any deductibles applicable hereto. The Parties agree to have 
their respective property damage insurance carriers waive any right to subrogation that such companies may have against Lessor or Lessee, as the case may be, so 
long as the insurance is not invalidated thereby.
8.7
Indemnity. Except for Lessor's gross negligence or willful misconduct, Lessee shall indemnify, protect, defend and hold harmless the Premises, Lessor, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees and its agents, Lessor's master or ground lessor, partners and Lenders, from and against any and all claims,  loss of 
rents and/or damages, liens, judgments, penalties, attorneys' and consultants' fees, expenses and/or liabilities arising out of, involving, or in connection with, a Breach 
of the Lease by Lessee and/or the use and/or occupancy of the Premises and/or Project by Lessee and/or by Lessee's employees, contractors or invitees . If any action 
or proceeding is brought against Lessor by reason of any of the foregoing matters, Lessee shall upon notice defend the same at Lessee's expense by counsel 
reasonably satisfactory to Lessor and Lessor shall cooperate with Lessee in such defense. Lessor need not have first paid any such claim in order to be defended or 
indemnified.
8.8
Exemption of Lessor and its Agents from Liability. Notwithstanding the negligence or breach of this Lease by Lessor or its agents, neither Lessor nor its 
agents shall be liable under any circumstances for: (i) injury or damage to the person or goods, wares, merchandise or other property of Lessee, Lessee's employees, 
contractors, invitees, customers, or any other person in or about the Premises, whether such damage or injury is caused by or results from fire, steam, electricity, gas, 
water or rain, indoor air quality, the presence of mold or from the breakage, leakage, obstruction or other defects of pipes, fire sprinklers, wires, appliances, plumbing, 
HVAC or lighting fixtures, or from any other cause, whether the said injury or damage results from conditions arising upon the Premises or upon other portions of the 
Building, or from other sources or places; (ii) any damages arising from any act or neglect of any other tenant of Lessor or from the failure of Lessor or its agents to 
enforce the provisions of any other lease in the Project; or (iii) injury to Lessee's business or for any loss of income or profit therefrom. Instead, it is intended that 
Lessee's sole recourse in the event of such damages or injury be to file a claim on the insurance policy(ies) that Lessee is required to maintain pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 8.
8.9
Failure to Provide Insurance.  Lessee acknowledges that any failure on its part to obtain or maintain the insurance required herein will expose Lessor to 
risks and potentially cause Lessor to incur costs not contemplated by this Lease, the extent of which will be extremely difficult to ascertain. Accordingly, for any month 
or portion thereof that Lessee does not maintain the required insurance and/or does not provide Lessor with the required binders or certificates evidencing the 
existence of the required insurance, the Base Rent shall be automatically increased, without any requirement for notice to Lessee, by an amount equal to 10% of the 
then existing Base Rent or $100, whichever is greater.  The parties agree that such increase in Base Rent represents fair and reasonable compensation for the 
additional risk/costs that Lessor will incur by reason of Lessee's failure to maintain the required insurance. Such increase in Base Rent shall in no event constitute a 
waiver of Lessee's Default or Breach with respect to the failure to maintain such insurance, prevent the exercise of any of the other rights and remedies granted 
hereunder, nor relieve Lessee of its obligation to maintain the insurance specified in this Lease.
9.
Damage or Destruction.
9.1
Definitions.
(a)
"Premises Partial Damage" shall mean damage or destruction to the improvements on the Premises, other than Lessee Owned Alterations and Utility 
Installations, which can reasonably be repaired in 3 months or less from the date of the damage or destruction, and the cost thereof does not exceed a sum equal to 6 
month's Base Rent. Lessor shall notify Lessee in writing within 30 days from the date of the damage or destruction as to whether or not the damage is Partial or Total.
(b)
"Premises Total Destruction" shall mean damage or destruction to the improvements on the Premises, other than Lessee Owned Alterations and 
Utility Installations and Trade Fixtures, which cannot reasonably be repaired in 3 months or less from the date of the damage or destruction and/or the cost thereof 
exceeds a sum equal to 6 month's Base Rent. Lessor shall notify Lessee in writing within 30 days from the date of the damage or destruction as to whether or not the 
damage is Partial or Total.
(c)
"Insured Loss" shall mean damage or destruction to improvements on the Premises, other than Lessee Owned Alterations and Utility Installations and 
Trade Fixtures, which was caused by an event required to be covered by the insurance described in Paragraph 8.3(a), irrespective of any deductible amounts or 
coverage limits involved.
(d)
"Replacement Cost" shall mean the cost to repair or rebuild the improvements owned by Lessor at the time of the occurrence to their condition 
existing immediately prior thereto, including demolition, debris removal and upgrading required by the operation of Applicable Requirements, and without deduction 
for depreciation.
(e)
"Hazardous Substance Condition" shall mean the occurrence or discovery of a condition involving the presence of, or a contamination by, a 
Hazardous Substance, in, on, or under the Premises which requires restoration.
9.2
Partial Damage - Insured Loss. If a Premises Partial Damage that is an Insured Loss occurs, then Lessor shall, at Lessor's expense, repair such damage (but
138 of 460

--- page 139 ---
INITIALS
© 2019 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
MTN-26.30, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 9 of 18
not Lessee's Trade Fixtures or Lessee Owned Alterations and Utility Installations) as soon as reasonably possible and this Lease shall continue in full force and effect; 
provided, however, that Lessee shall, at Lessor's election, make the repair of any damage or destruction the total cost to repair of which is $10,000 or less, and, in such 
event, Lessor shall make any applicable insurance proceeds available to Lessee on a reasonable basis for that purpose. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the required 
insurance was not in force or the insurance proceeds are not sufficient to effect such repair, the Insuring Party shall promptly contribute the shortage in proceeds as 
and when required to complete said repairs. In the event, however, such shortage was due to the fact that, by reason of the unique nature of the improvements, full 
replacement cost insurance coverage was not commercially reasonable and available, Lessor shall have no obligation to pay for the shortage in insurance proceeds or 
to fully restore the unique aspects of the Premises unless Lessee provides Lessor with the funds to cover same, or adequate assurance thereof, within 30 days 
following receipt of written notice of such shortage and request therefor. If Lessor receives said funds or adequate assurance thereof within said 10 day period, the 
party responsible for making the repairs shall complete them as soon as reasonably possible and this Lease shall remain in full force and effect. If such funds or 
assurance are not received, Lessor may nevertheless elect by written notice to Lessee within 30 days thereafter to: (i) make such restoration and repair as is 
commercially reasonable with Lessor paying any shortage in proceeds, in which case this Lease shall remain in full force and effect, or (ii) have this Lease terminate 30 
days thereafter. Lessee shall not be entitled to reimbursement of any funds contributed by Lessee to repair any such damage or destruction. Premises Partial Damage 
due to flood or earthquake shall be subject to Paragraph 9.3, notwithstanding that there may be some insurance coverage, but the net proceeds of any such insurance 
shall be made available for the repairs if made by either Party.
9.3
Partial Damage - Uninsured Loss. If a Premises Partial Damage that is not an Insured Loss occurs, unless caused by a negligent or willful act of Lessee (in 
which event Lessee shall make the repairs at Lessee's expense), Lessor may either: (i) repair such damage as soon as reasonably possible at Lessor's expense (subject 
to reimbursement pursuant to Paragraph 4.2), in which event this Lease shall continue in full force and effect, or (ii) terminate this Lease by giving written notice to 
Lessee within 30 days after receipt by Lessor of knowledge of the occurrence of such damage. Such termination shall be effective 60 days following the date of such 
notice. In the event Lessor elects to terminate this Lease, Lessee shall have the right within 30 days after receipt of the termination notice to give written notice to 
Lessor of Lessee's commitment to pay for the repair of such damage without reimbursement from Lessor. Lessee shall provide Lessor with said funds or satisfactory 
assurance thereof within 30 days after making such commitment.  In such event this Lease shall continue in full force and effect, and Lessor shall proceed to make 
such repairs as soon as reasonably possible after the required funds are available. If Lessee does not make the required commitment, this Lease shall terminate as of 
the date specified in the termination notice.
9.4
Total Destruction. Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, if a Premises Total Destruction occurs, this Lease shall terminate 60 days following such 
Destruction. If the damage or destruction was caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of Lessee, Lessor shall have the right to recover Lessor's damages 
from Lessee, except as provided in Paragraph 8.6.
9.5
Damage Near End of Term. If at any time during the last 6 months of this Lease there is damage for which the cost to repair exceeds one month's Base 
Rent, whether or not an Insured Loss, Lessor may terminate this Lease effective 60 days following the date of occurrence of such damage by giving a written 
termination notice to Lessee within 30 days after the date of occurrence of such damage. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Lessee at that time has an exercisable 
option to extend this Lease or to purchase the Premises, then Lessee may preserve this Lease by (a) exercising such option and (b) providing Lessor with any shortage 
in insurance proceeds (or adequate assurance thereof) needed to make the repairs on or before the earlier of (i) the date which is 30 days after Lessee's receipt of 
Lessor's written notice purporting to terminate this Lease, or (ii) the day prior to the date upon which such option expires. If Lessee duly exercises such option during 
such period and provides Lessor with funds (or adequate assurance thereof) to cover any shortage in insurance proceeds, Lessor shall, at Lessor's commercially 
reasonable expense, repair such damage as soon as reasonably possible and this Lease shall continue in full force and effect. If Lessee fails to exercise such option and 
provide such funds or assurance during such period, then this Lease shall terminate on the date specified in the termination notice and Lessee's option shall be 
extinguished.
9.6
Abatement of Rent; Lessee's Remedies.
(a)
Abatement. In the event of Premises Partial Damage or Premises Total Destruction or a Hazardous Substance Condition for which Lessee is not 
responsible under this Lease, the Rent payable by Lessee for the period required for the repair, remediation or restoration of such damage shall be abated in 
proportion to the degree to which Lessee's use of the Premises is impaired, but not to exceed the proceeds received from the Rental Value insurance. All other 
obligations of Lessee hereunder shall be performed by Lessee, and Lessor shall have no liability for any such damage, destruction, remediation, repair or restoration 
except as provided herein.
(b)
Remedies. If Lessor is obligated to repair or restore the Premises and does not commence, in a substantial and meaningful way, such repair or 
restoration within 90 days after such obligation shall accrue, Lessee may, at any time prior to the commencement of such repair or restoration, give written notice to 
Lessor and to any Lenders of which Lessee has actual notice, of Lessee's election to terminate this Lease on a date not less than 60 days following the giving of such 
notice. If Lessee gives such notice and such repair or restoration is not commenced within 30 days thereafter, this Lease shall terminate as of the date specified in said 
notice. If the repair or restoration is commenced within such 30 days, this Lease shall continue in full force and effect. "Commence" shall mean either the 
unconditional authorization of the preparation of the required plans, or the beginning of the actual work on the Premises, whichever first occurs.
9.7
Termination; Advance Payments. Upon termination of this Lease pursuant to Paragraph 6.2(g) or Paragraph 9, an equitable adjustment shall be made 
concerning advance Base Rent and any other advance payments made by Lessee to Lessor. Lessor shall, in addition, return to Lessee so much of Lessee's Security 
Deposit as has not been, or is not then required to be, used by Lessor.
10.
Real Property Taxes.
10.1 Definition. As used herein, the term "Real Property Taxes" shall include any form of assessment; real estate, general, special, ordinary or extraordinary, or 
rental levy or tax (other than inheritance, personal income or estate taxes); improvement bond; and/or license fee imposed upon or levied against any legal or 
equitable interest of Lessor in the Project, Lessor's right to other income therefrom, and/or Lessor's business of leasing, by any authority having the direct or indirect 
power to tax and where the funds are generated with reference to the Project address. The term "Real Property Taxes" shall also include any tax, fee, levy, assessment 
or charge, or any increase therein: (i) imposed by reason of events occurring during the term of this Lease, including but not limited to, a change in the ownership of 
the Project, (ii) a change in the improvements thereon, and/or (iii) levied or assessed on machinery or equipment provided by Lessor to Lessee pursuant to this Lease. 
In calculating Real Property Taxes for any calendar year, the Real Property Taxes for any real estate tax year shall be included in the calculation of Real Property Taxes 
for such calendar year based upon the number of days which such calendar year and tax year have in common.
10.2 Payment of Taxes. Except as otherwise provided in Paragraph 10.3, Lessor shall pay the Real Property Taxes applicable to the Project, and said payments 
shall be included in the calculation of Common Area Operating Expenses in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 4.2.
10.3 Additional Improvements. Common Area Operating Expenses shall not include Real Property Taxes specified in the tax assessor's records and work sheets 
as being caused by additional improvements placed upon the Project by other lessees or by Lessor for the exclusive enjoyment of such other lessees. Notwithstanding 
Paragraph 10.2 hereof, Lessee shall, however, pay to Lessor at the time Common Area Operating Expenses are payable under Paragraph 4.2, the entirety of any 
increase in Real Property Taxes if assessed solely by reason of Alterations, Trade Fixtures or Utility Installations placed upon the Premises by Lessee or at Lessee's
139 of 460

--- page 140 ---
INITIALS
© 2019 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
MTN-26.30, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 10 of 18
request or by reason of any alterations or improvements to the Premises made by Lessor subsequent to the execution of this Lease by the Parties.
10.4 Joint Assessment. If the Building is not separately assessed, Real Property Taxes allocated to the Building shall be an equitable proportion of the Real 
Property Taxes for all of the land and improvements included within the tax parcel assessed, such proportion to be determined by Lessor from the respective 
valuations assigned in the assessor's work sheets or such other information as may be reasonably available. Lessor's reasonable determination thereof, in good faith, 
shall be conclusive.
10.5 Personal Property Taxes. Lessee shall pay prior to delinquency all taxes assessed against and levied upon Lessee Owned Alterations and Utility 
Installations, Trade Fixtures, furnishings, equipment and all personal property of Lessee contained in the Premises. When possible, Lessee shall cause its Lessee 
Owned Alterations and Utility Installations, Trade Fixtures, furnishings, equipment and all other personal property to be assessed and billed separately from the real 
property of Lessor. If any of Lessee's said property shall be assessed with Lessor's real property, Lessee shall pay Lessor the taxes attributable to Lessee's property 
within 30 days after receipt of a written statement setting forth the taxes applicable to Lessee's property. Lessee recognizes and understands in executing this 
Lease that its interest in the Premises created herein may be subject to a possessory interest tax and agrees to pay promptly when due any possessory 
interest tax imposed on its interest in the Premises.
11.
Utilities and Services.
11.1 Lessee shall pay for all water, gas, heat, light, power, telephone, vector control, trash disposal and other utilities and services supplied to the Premises, 
together with any taxes thereon. Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 4.2, if at any time in Lessor's sole judgment, Lessor determines that Lessee is using a 
disproportionate amount of water, electricity or other commonly metered utilities, or that Lessee is generating such a large volume of trash as to require an increase 
in the size of the trash receptacle and/or an increase in the number of times per month that it is emptied, then Lessor may increase Lessee's Base Rent by an amount 
equal to such increased costs. There shall be no abatement of Rent and Lessor shall not be liable in any respect whatsoever for the inadequacy, stoppage, interruption 
or discontinuance of any utility or service due to riot, strike, labor dispute, breakdown, accident, repair or other cause beyond Lessor's reasonable control or in 
cooperation with governmental request or directions.
11.2 Within fifteen days of Lessor's written request, Lessee agrees to deliver to Lessor such information, documents and/or authorization as Lessor needs in 
order for Lessor to comply with new or existing Applicable Requirements relating to commercial building energy usage, ratings, and/or the reporting thereof.
12.
Assignment and Subletting.
12.1 Lessor's  Consent Required.
(a)
Lessee shall not voluntarily or by operation of law assign, transfer, mortgage or encumber (collectively, "assign or assignment") or sublet all or any 
part of Lessee's interest in this Lease or in the Premises without Lessor's prior written consent.
(b)
Unless Lessee is a corporation and its stock is publicly traded on a national stock exchange, a change in the control of Lessee shall constitute an 
assignment requiring consent. The transfer, on a cumulative basis, of 25% or more of the voting control of Lessee shall constitute a change in control for this purpose.
(c)
The involvement of Lessee or its assets in any transaction, or series of transactions (by way of merger, sale, acquisition, financing, transfer, leveraged 
buy-out or otherwise), whether or not a formal assignment or hypothecation of this Lease or Lessee's assets occurs, which results or will result in a reduction of the 
Net Worth of Lessee by an amount greater than 25% of such Net Worth as it was represented at the time of the execution of this Lease or at the time of the most 
recent assignment to which Lessor has consented, or as it exists immediately prior to said transaction or transactions constituting such reduction, whichever was or is 
greater, shall be considered an assignment of this Lease to which Lessor may withhold its consent. "Net Worth of Lessee" shall mean the net worth of Lessee 
(excluding any guarantors) established under generally accepted accounting principles.
(d)
An assignment or subletting without consent shall, at Lessor's option, be a Default curable after notice per Paragraph 13.1(d), or a non-curable Breach 
without the necessity of any notice and grace period. If Lessor elects to treat such unapproved assignment or subletting as a non-curable Breach, Lessor may either:
(i) terminate this Lease, or (ii) upon 30 days written notice, increase the monthly Base Rent to 110% of the Base Rent then in effect. Further, in the event of such 
Breach and rental adjustment, (i) the purchase price of any option to purchase the Premises held by Lessee shall be subject to similar adjustment to 110% of the price 
previously in effect, and (ii) all fixed and non-fixed rental adjustments scheduled during the remainder of the Lease term shall be increased to 110% of the scheduled 
adjusted rent.
(e)
Lessee's remedy for any breach of Paragraph 12.1 by Lessor shall be limited to compensatory damages and/or injunctive relief.
(f)
Lessor may reasonably withhold consent to a proposed assignment or subletting if Lessee is in Default at the time consent is requested.
(g)
Notwithstanding the foregoing, allowing a de minimis portion of the Premises, i.e. 20 square feet or less, to be used by a third party vendor in 
connection with the installation of a vending machine or payphone shall not constitute a subletting.
12.2 Terms and Conditions Applicable to Assignment and Subletting.
(a)
Regardless of Lessor's consent, no assignment or subletting shall : (i) be effective without the express written assumption by such assignee or 
sublessee of the obligations of Lessee under this Lease, (ii) release Lessee of any obligations hereunder, or (iii) alter the primary liability of Lessee for the payment of 
Rent or for the performance of any other obligations to be performed by Lessee.
(b)
Lessor may accept Rent or performance of Lessee's obligations from any person other than Lessee pending approval or disapproval of an assignment. 
Neither a delay in the approval or disapproval of such assignment nor the acceptance of Rent or performance shall constitute a waiver or estoppel of Lessor's right to 
exercise its remedies for Lessee's Default or Breach.
(c)
Lessor's consent to any assignment or subletting shall not constitute a consent to any subsequent assignment or subletting.
(d)
In the event of any Default or Breach by Lessee, Lessor may proceed directly against Lessee, any Guarantors or anyone else responsible for the 
performance of Lessee's obligations under this Lease, including any assignee or sublessee, without first exhausting Lessor's remedies against any other person or 
entity responsible therefor to Lessor, or any security held by Lessor.
(e)
Each request for consent to an assignment or subletting shall be in writing, accompanied by information relevant to Lessor's determination as to the 
financial and operational responsibility and appropriateness of the proposed assignee or sublessee, including but not limited to the intended use and/or required 
modification of the Premises, if any, together with a fee of $500 as consideration for Lessor's considering and processing said request. Lessee agrees to provide Lessor 
with such other or additional information and/or documentation as may be reasonably requested. (See also Paragraph 36)
(f)
Any assignee of, or sublessee under, this Lease shall, by reason of accepting such assignment, entering into such sublease, or entering into possession 
of the Premises or any portion thereof, be deemed to have assumed and agreed to conform and comply with each and every term, covenant, condition and obligation 
herein to be observed or performed by Lessee during the term of said assignment or sublease, other than such obligations as are contrary to or inconsistent with 
provisions of an assignment or sublease to which Lessor has specifically consented to in writing.
(g)
Lessor's consent to any assignment or subletting shall not transfer to the assignee or sublessee any Option granted to the original Lessee by this Lease 
unless such transfer is specifically consented to by Lessor in writing. (See Paragraph 39.2)
12.3 Additional Terms and Conditions Applicable to Subletting.  The following terms and conditions shall apply to any subletting by Lessee of all or any part of
140 of 460

--- page 141 ---
INITIALS
© 2019 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
MTN-26.30, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 11 of 18
the Premises and shall be deemed included in all subleases under this Lease whether or not expressly incorporated therein:
(a)
Lessee hereby assigns and transfers to Lessor all of Lessee's interest in all Rent payable on any sublease, and Lessor may collect such Rent and apply 
same toward Lessee's obligations under this Lease; provided, however, that until a Breach shall occur in the performance of Lessee's obligations, Lessee may collect 
said Rent. In the event that the amount collected by Lessor exceeds Lessee's then outstanding obligations any such excess shall be refunded to Lessee.  Lessor shall 
not, by reason of the foregoing or any assignment of such sublease, nor by reason of the collection of Rent, be deemed liable to the sublessee for any failure of Lessee 
to perform and comply with any of Lessee's obligations to such sublessee. Lessee hereby irrevocably authorizes and directs any such sublessee, upon receipt of a 
written notice from Lessor stating that a Breach exists in the performance of Lessee's obligations under this Lease, to pay to Lessor all Rent due and to become due 
under the sublease. Sublessee shall rely upon any such notice from Lessor and shall pay all Rents to Lessor without any obligation or right to inquire as to whether 
such Breach exists, notwithstanding any claim from Lessee to the contrary.
(b)
In the event of a Breach by Lessee, Lessor may, at its option, require sublessee to attorn to Lessor, in which event Lessor shall undertake the 
obligations of the sublessor under such sublease from the time of the exercise of said option to the expiration of such sublease; provided, however, Lessor shall not be 
liable for any prepaid rents or security deposit paid by such sublessee to such sublessor or for any prior Defaults or Breaches of such sublessor.
(c)
Any matter requiring the consent of the sublessor under a sublease shall also require the consent of Lessor.
(d)
No sublessee shall further assign or sublet all or any part of the Premises without Lessor's prior written consent.
(e)
Lessor shall deliver a copy of any notice of Default or Breach by Lessee to the sublessee, who shall have the right to cure the Default of Lessee within 
the grace period, if any, specified in such notice. The sublessee shall have a right of reimbursement and offset from and against Lessee for any such Defaults cured by 
the sublessee.
13.
Default;  Breach; Remedies.
13.1 Default; Breach. A "Default" is defined as a failure by the Lessee to comply with or perform any of the terms, covenants, conditions or Rules and 
Regulations under this Lease. A "Breach" is defined as the occurrence of one or more of the following Defaults, and the failure of Lessee to cure such Default within 
any applicable grace period:
(a)
The abandonment of the Premises; the vacating of the Premises prior to the expiration or termination of this Lease without providing a commercially 
reasonable level of security, or where the coverage of the property insurance described in Paragraph 8.3 is jeopardized as a result thereof, or without providing 
reasonable assurances to minimize potential vandalism; or failure to deliver to Lessor exclusive possession of the entire Premises in accordance herewith prior to the 
expiration or termination of this Lease.
(b)
The failure of Lessee to (i) make any payment of Rent or any Security Deposit required to be made by Lessee hereunder, whether to Lessor or to a 
third party, when due, (ii) to provide reasonable evidence of insurance or surety bond, or (iii) to fulfill any obligation under this Lease which endangers or threatens life 
or property, where such failure continues for a period of 5 business days following written notice to Lessee. THE ACCEPTANCE BY LESSOR OF A PARTIAL PAYMENT OF 
RENT OR SECURITY DEPOSIT SHALL NOT CONSTITUTE A WAIVER OF ANY OF LESSOR'S RIGHTS, INCLUDING LESSOR'S RIGHT TO RECOVER POSSESSION OF THE 
PREMISES.
(c)
The failure of Lessee to allow Lessor and/or its agents access to the Premises or the commission of waste, act or acts constituting public or private 
nuisance, and/or an illegal activity on the Premises by Lessee, where such actions continue for a period of 5 business days following written notice to Lessee. In the 
event that Lessee commits waste, a nuisance or an illegal activity a second time then, the Lessor may elect to treat such conduct as a non-curable Breach rather than a 
Default.
(d)
The failure by Lessee to provide (i) reasonable written evidence of compliance with Applicable Requirements, (ii) the service contracts, (iii) the 
rescission of an unauthorized assignment or subletting, (iv) an Estoppel Certificate or financial statements, (v) a requested subordination, (vi) evidence concerning any 
guaranty and/or Guarantor, (vii) any document requested under Paragraph 41, (viii) material safety data sheets (MSDS), or (ix) any other documentation or 
information which Lessor may reasonably require of Lessee under the terms of this Lease, where any such failure continues for a period of 30 days following written 
notice to Lessee.
(e)
A Default by Lessee as to the terms, covenants, conditions or provisions of this Lease, or of the rules adopted under Paragraph 2.9 hereof, other than 
those described in subparagraphs 13.1(a), (b), (c) or (d), above, where such Default continues for a period of 30 days after written notice; provided, however, that if 
the nature of Lessee's Default is such that more than 30 days are reasonably required for its cure, then it shall not be deemed to be a Breach if Lessee commences 
such cure within said 30 day period and thereafter diligently prosecutes such cure to completion.
(f)
The occurrence of any of the following events: (i) the making of any general arrangement or assignment for the benefit of creditors; (ii) becoming a 
"debtor" as defined in 11 U.S.C. § 101 or any successor statute thereto (unless, in the case of a petition filed against Lessee, the same is dismissed within 60 days); (iii) 
the appointment of a trustee or receiver to take possession of substantially all of Lessee's assets located at the Premises or of Lessee's interest in this Lease, where 
possession is not restored to Lessee within 30 days; or (iv) the attachment, execution or other judicial seizure of substantially all of Lessee's assets located at the 
Premises or of Lessee's interest in this Lease, where such seizure is not discharged within 30 days; provided, however, in the event that any provision of this 
subparagraph is contrary to any applicable law, such provision shall be of no force or effect, and not affect the validity of the remaining provisions.
(g)
The discovery that any financial statement of Lessee or of any Guarantor given to Lessor was materially false.
(h)
If the performance of Lessee's obligations under this Lease is guaranteed: (i) the death of a Guarantor, (ii) the termination of a Guarantor's liability 
with respect to this Lease other than in accordance with the terms of such guaranty, (iii) a Guarantor's becoming insolvent or the subject of a bankruptcy filing, (iv) a 
Guarantor's refusal to honor the guaranty, or (v) a Guarantor's breach of its guaranty obligation on an anticipatory basis, and Lessee's failure, within 60 days following 
written notice of any such event, to provide written alternative assurance or security, which, when coupled with the then existing resources of Lessee, equals or 
exceeds the combined financial resources of Lessee and the Guarantors that existed at the time of execution of this Lease.
13.2 Remedies. If Lessee fails to perform any of its affirmative duties or obligations, within 30 days after written notice (or in case of an emergency, without 
notice), Lessor may, at its option, perform such duty or obligation on Lessee's behalf, including but not limited to the obtaining of reasonably required bonds, 
insurance policies, or governmental licenses, permits or approvals. Lessee shall pay to Lessor an amount equal to 115% of the costs and expenses incurred by Lessor 
in such performance upon receipt of an invoice therefor. In the event of a Breach, Lessor may, with or without further notice or demand, and without limiting Lessor 
in the exercise of any right or remedy which Lessor may have by reason of such Breach:
(a)
Terminate Lessee's right to possession of the Premises by any lawful means, in which case this Lease shall terminate and Lessee shall immediately 
surrender possession to Lessor.  In such event Lessor shall be entitled to recover from Lessee: (i) the unpaid Rent which had been earned at the time of termination;
(ii) the worth at the time of award of the amount by which the unpaid rent which would have been earned after termination until the time of award exceeds the 
amount of such rental loss that the Lessee proves could have been reasonably avoided; (iii) the worth at the time of award of the amount by which the unpaid rent for 
the balance of the term after the time of award exceeds the amount of such rental loss that the Lessee proves could be reasonably avoided; and (iv) any other amount 
necessary to compensate Lessor for all the detriment proximately caused by the Lessee's failure to perform its obligations under this Lease or which in the ordinary 
course of things would be likely to result therefrom, including but not limited to the cost of recovering possession of the Premises, expenses of reletting, including
141 of 460

--- page 142 ---
INITIALS
© 2019 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
MTN-26.30, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 12 of 18
necessary renovation and alteration of the Premises, reasonable attorneys' fees, and that portion of any leasing commission paid by Lessor in connection with this 
Lease applicable to the unexpired term of this Lease. Lessor and Lessee agree that the damages to be incurred by the Lessor in the event of Lessee's default of the 
Lease would be difficult or impossible to calculate and the parties therefore intend to provide by the foregoing for liquidated damages and not a penalty and agree 
that the sum provided is a reasonable pre-estimate of the probable loss. The worth at the time of award of the amount referred to in provision (iii) of the immediately 
preceding sentence shall be computed by discounting such amount at the discount rate of the Federal Reserve Bank of the District within which the Premises are 
located at the time of award plus one percent. Efforts by Lessor to mitigate damages caused by Lessee's Breach of this Lease shall not waive Lessor's right to recover 
any damages to which Lessor is otherwise entitled. If termination of this Lease is obtained through the provisional remedy of unlawful detainer, Lessor shall have the 
right to recover in such proceeding any unpaid Rent and damages as are recoverable therein, or Lessor may reserve the right to recover all or any part thereof in a 
separate suit. If a notice and grace period required under Paragraph 13.1 was not previously given, a notice to pay rent or quit, or to perform or quit given to Lessee 
under the unlawful detainer statute shall also constitute the notice required by Paragraph 13.1. In such case, the applicable grace period required by Paragraph 13.1 
and the unlawful detainer statute shall run concurrently, and the failure of Lessee to cure the Default within the greater of the two such grace periods shall constitute 
both an unlawful detainer and a Breach of this Lease entitling Lessor to the remedies provided for in this Lease and/or by said statute.
(b)
Continue the Lease and Lessee's right to possession and recover the Rent as it becomes due, in which event Lessee may sublet or assign, subject only 
to reasonable limitations. Acts of maintenance, efforts to relet, and/or the appointment of a receiver to protect the Lessor's interests, shall not constitute a 
termination of the Lessee's right to possession.
(c)
Pursue any other remedy now or hereafter available under the laws or judicial decisions of the state wherein the Premises are located. The expiration 
or termination of this Lease and/or the termination of Lessee's right to possession shall not relieve Lessee from liability under any indemnity provisions of this Lease 
as to matters occurring or accruing during the term hereof or by reason of Lessee's occupancy of the Premises.
13.3 Inducement Recapture. Any agreement for free or abated rent or other charges, the cost of tenant improvements for Lessee paid for or performed by 
Lessor, or for the giving or paying by Lessor to or for Lessee of any cash or other bonus, inducement or consideration for Lessee's entering into this Lease, all of which 
concessions are hereinafter referred to as "Inducement Provisions," shall be deemed conditioned upon Lessee's full and faithful performance of all of the terms, 
covenants and conditions of this Lease. Upon Breach of this Lease by Lessee, any such Inducement Provision shall automatically be deemed deleted from this Lease 
and of no further force or effect, and any rent, other charge, bonus, inducement or consideration theretofore abated, given or paid by Lessor under such an 
Inducement Provision shall be immediately due and payable by Lessee to Lessor, notwithstanding any subsequent cure of said Breach by Lessee. The acceptance by 
Lessor of rent or the cure of the Breach which initiated the operation of this paragraph shall not be deemed a waiver by Lessor of the provisions of this paragraph 
unless specifically so stated in writing by Lessor at the time of such acceptance.
13.4 Late Charges. Lessee hereby acknowledges that late payment by Lessee of Rent will cause Lessor to incur costs not contemplated by this Lease, the exact 
amount of which will be extremely difficult to ascertain. Such costs include, but are not limited to, processing and accounting charges, and late charges which may be 
imposed upon Lessor by any Lender. Accordingly, if any Rent shall not be received by Lessor within 5 days after such amount shall be due, then, without any 
requirement for notice to Lessee, Lessee shall immediately pay to Lessor a one-time late charge equal to 10% of each such overdue amount or $100, whichever is 
greater. The parties hereby agree that such late charge and NSF fee (per the clause below) represents a fair and reasonable estimate of the costs Lessor will incur 
by reason of such late and/or NSF payment. Acceptance of such late or NSF charge by Lessor shall in no event constitute a waiver of Lessee's Default or Breach 
with respect to such overdue amount, nor prevent the exercise of any of the other rights and remedies granted hereunder. In the event that a late charge is payable 
hereunder, whether or not collected, for 3 consecutive installments of Base Rent, then notwithstanding any provision of this Lease to the contrary, Base Rent shall, at 
Lessor's option, become due and payable quarterly in advance. If a check is returned NSF, Lessee shall pay to Lessor twenty-five ($25.00) dollars as a NSF 
fee, which shall be deemed additional Base Rent.
13.5 Interest. Any monetary payment due Lessor hereunder, other than late charges, not received by Lessor, when due shall bear interest from the 31st day 
after it was due. The interest ("Interest") charged shall be computed at the rate of 10% per annum but shall not exceed the maximum rate allowed by law. Interest is 
payable in addition to the potential late charge provided for in Paragraph 13.4.
13.6 Breach by Lessor.
(a)
Notice of Breach. Lessor shall not be deemed in breach of this Lease unless Lessor fails within a reasonable time to perform an obligation required to 
be performed by Lessor. For purposes of this Paragraph, a reasonable time shall in no event be less than 30 days after receipt by Lessor, and any Lender whose name 
and address shall have been furnished to Lessee in writing for such purpose, of written notice specifying wherein such obligation of Lessor has not been performed; 
provided, however, that if the nature of Lessor's obligation is such that more than 30 days are reasonably required for its performance, then Lessor shall not be in 
breach if performance is commenced within such 30 day period and thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
(b)
Performance by Lessee on Behalf of Lessor. In the event that neither Lessor nor Lender cures said breach within 30 days after receipt of said notice, 
or if having commenced said cure they do not diligently pursue it to completion, then Lessee may elect to cure said breach at Lessee's expense and offset from Rent 
the actual and reasonable cost to perform such cure, provided however, that such offset shall not exceed an amount equal to the greater of one month's Base Rent or 
the Security Deposit, reserving Lessee's right to reimbursement from Lessor for any such expense in excess of such offset. Lessee shall document the cost of said cure 
and supply said documentation to Lessor.
14.
Condemnation. If the Premises or any portion thereof are taken under the power of eminent domain or sold under the threat of the exercise of said power 
(collectively "Condemnation"), this Lease shall terminate as to the part taken as of the date the condemning authority takes title or possession, whichever first occurs. 
If more than 10% of the floor area of the Unit, or more than 25% of the parking spaces is taken by Condemnation, Lessee may, at Lessee's option, to be exercised in 
writing within 15 days after Lessor shall have given Lessee written notice of such taking (or in the absence of such notice, within 15 days after the condemning 
authority shall have taken possession) terminate this Lease as of the date the condemning authority takes such possession. If Lessee does not terminate this Lease in 
accordance with the foregoing, this Lease shall remain in full force and effect as to the portion of the Premises remaining, except that the Base Rent shall be reduced 
in proportion to the reduction in utility of the Premises caused by such Condemnation. Condemnation awards and/or payments shall be the property of Lessor, 
whether such award shall be made as compensation for diminution in value of the leasehold, the value of the part taken, or for severance damages; provided, 
however, that Lessee shall be entitled to any compensation paid by the condemnor for Lessee's relocation expenses, loss of business goodwill and/or Trade Fixtures, 
without regard to whether or not this Lease is terminated pursuant to the provisions of this Paragraph.  All Alterations and Utility Installations made to the Premises 
by Lessee, for purposes of Condemnation only, shall be considered the property of the Lessee and Lessee shall be entitled to any and all compensation which is 
payable therefor. In the event that this Lease is not terminated by reason of the Condemnation, Lessor shall repair any damage to the Premises caused by such 
Condemnation.
15.
Brokerage Fees.
15.1 Additional Commission. In addition to the payments owed pursuant to Paragraph 1.10 above, Lessor agrees that: (a) if Lessee exercises any Option, (b) if 
Lessee or anyone affiliated with Lessee acquires from Lessor any rights to the Premises or other premises owned by Lessor and located within the Project, (c) if Lessee
142 of 460

--- page 143 ---
INITIALS
© 2019 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
MTN-26.30, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 13 of 18
remains in possession of the Premises, with the consent of Lessor, after the expiration of this Lease, or (d) if Base Rent is increased, whether by agreement or 
operation of an escalation clause herein, then, Lessor shall pay Brokers a fee in accordance with the fee schedule of the Brokers in effect at the time the Lease was 
executed. The provisions of this paragraph are intended to supersede the provisions of any earlier agreement to the contrary.
15.2 Assumption of Obligations. Any buyer or transferee of Lessor's interest in this Lease shall be deemed to have assumed Lessor's obligation hereunder. 
Brokers shall be third party beneficiaries of the provisions of Paragraphs 1.10, 15, 22 and 31. If Lessor fails to pay to Brokers any amounts due as and for brokerage 
fees pertaining to this Lease when due, then such amounts shall accrue Interest. In addition, if Lessor fails to pay any amounts to Lessee's Broker when due, Lessee's 
Broker may send written notice to Lessor and Lessee of such failure and if Lessor fails to pay such amounts within 10 days after said notice, Lessee shall pay said 
monies to its Broker and offset such amounts against Rent. In addition, Lessee's Broker shall be deemed to be a third party beneficiary of any commission agreement 
entered into by and/or between Lessor and Lessor's Broker for the limited purpose of collecting any brokerage fee owed.
15.3 Representations and Indemnities of Broker Relationships. Lessee and Lessor each represent and warrant to the other that it has had no dealings with any 
person, firm, broker, agent or finder (other than the Brokers and Agents, if any) in connection with this Lease, and that no one other than said named Brokers and 
Agents is entitled to any commission or finder's fee in connection herewith. Lessee and Lessor do each hereby agree to indemnify, protect, defend and hold the other 
harmless from and against liability for compensation or charges which may be claimed by any such unnamed broker, finder or other similar party by reason of any 
dealings or actions of the indemnifying Party, including any costs, expenses, attorneys' fees reasonably incurred with respect thereto.
16.
Estoppel Certificates.
(a)
Each Party (as "Responding Party") shall within 15 days after written notice from the other Party (the "Requesting Party") execute, acknowledge 
and deliver to the Requesting Party a statement in writing in form similar to the then most current "Estoppel Certificate" form published BY AIR CRE, plus such 
additional information, confirmation and/or statements as may be reasonably requested by the Requesting Party.
(b)
If the Responding Party shall fail to execute or deliver the Estoppel Certificate within such 10 day period, the Requesting Party may execute an 
Estoppel Certificate stating that: (i) the Lease is in full force and effect without modification except as may be represented by the Requesting Party, (ii) there are no 
uncured defaults in the Requesting Party's performance, and (iii) if Lessor is the Requesting Party, not more than one month's rent has been paid in advance. 
Prospective purchasers and encumbrancers may rely upon the Requesting Party's Estoppel Certificate, and the Responding Party shall be estopped from denying the 
truth of the facts contained in said Certificate. In addition, Lessee acknowledges that any failure on its part to provide such an Estoppel Certificate will expose Lessor 
to risks and potentially cause Lessor to incur costs not contemplated by this Lease, the extent of which will be extremely difficult to ascertain. Accordingly, should the 
Lessee fail to execute and/or deliver a requested Estoppel Certificate in a timely fashion the monthly Base Rent shall be automatically increased, without any 
requirement for notice to Lessee, by an amount equal to 10% of the then existing Base Rent or $100, whichever is greater for remainder of the Lease. The Parties 
agree that such increase in Base Rent represents fair and reasonable compensation for the additional risk/costs that Lessor will incur by reason of Lessee's failure to 
provide the Estoppel Certificate. Such increase in Base Rent shall in no event constitute a waiver of Lessee's Default or Breach with respect to the failure to provide 
the Estoppel Certificate nor prevent the exercise of any of the other rights and remedies granted hereunder.
(c)
If Lessor desires to finance, refinance, or sell the Premises, or any part thereof, Lessee and all Guarantors shall within 30 days after written notice 
from Lessor deliver to any potential lender or purchaser designated by Lessor such financial statements as may be reasonably required by such lender or purchaser, 
including but not limited to Lessee's financial statements for the past 3 years. All such financial statements shall be received by Lessor and such lender or purchaser in 
confidence and shall be used only for the purposes herein set forth.
17.
Definition of Lessor. The term "Lessor" as used herein shall mean the owner or owners at the time in question of the fee title to the Premises, or, if this is a 
sublease, of the Lessee's interest in the prior lease. In the event of a transfer of Lessor's title or interest in the Premises or this Lease, Lessor shall deliver to the 
transferee or assignee (in cash or by credit) any unused Security Deposit held by Lessor. Upon such transfer or assignment and delivery of the Security Deposit, as 
aforesaid, the prior Lessor shall be relieved of all liability with respect to the obligations and/or covenants under this Lease thereafter to be performed by the Lessor. 
Subject to the foregoing, the obligations and/or covenants in this Lease to be performed by the Lessor shall be binding only upon the Lessor as hereinabove defined.
18.
Severability. The invalidity of any provision of this Lease, as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction, shall in no way affect the validity of any other 
provision hereof.
19.
Days. Unless otherwise specifically indicated to the contrary, the word "days" as used in this Lease shall mean and refer to calendar days.
20.
Limitation on Liability. The obligations of Lessor under this Lease shall not constitute personal obligations of Lessor, or its partners, members, directors, officers 
or shareholders, and Lessee shall look to the Premises, and to no other assets of Lessor, for the satisfaction of any liability of Lessor with respect to this Lease, and 
shall not seek recourse against Lessor's partners, members, directors, officers or shareholders, or any of their personal assets for such satisfaction.
21.
Time of Essence. Time is of the essence with respect to the performance of all obligations to be performed or observed by the Parties under this Lease.
22.
No Prior or Other Agreements; Broker Disclaimer. This Lease contains all agreements between the Parties with respect to any matter mentioned herein, and no 
other prior or contemporaneous agreement or understanding shall be effective. Lessor and Lessee each represents and warrants to the Brokers that it has made, and 
is relying solely upon, its own investigation as to the nature, quality, character and financial responsibility of the other Party to this Lease and as to the use, nature, 
quality and character of the Premises. Brokers have no responsibility with respect thereto or with respect to any default or breach hereof by either Party.
23.
Notices.
23.1 Notice Requirements. All notices required or permitted by this Lease or applicable law shall be in writing and may be delivered in person (by hand or by 
courier) or may be sent by regular, certified or registered mail or U.S. Postal Service Express Mail, with postage prepaid, together with email if desired, and shall be 
deemed sufficiently given if served in a manner specified in this Paragraph 23. The addresses noted adjacent to a Party's signature on this Lease shall be that Party's 
address for delivery or mailing of notices. Either Party may by written notice to the other specify a different address for notice, except that upon Lessee's taking 
possession of the Premises, the Premises shall constitute Lessee's address for notice. A copy of all notices to Lessor shall be concurrently transmitted to such party or 
parties at such addresses as Lessor may from time to time hereafter designate in writing.
23.2 Date of Notice. Any notice sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, shall be deemed given on the date of delivery shown on the 
receipt card, or if no delivery date is shown, the postmark thereon. If sent by regular mail the notice shall be deemed given 72 hours after the same is addressed as 
required herein and mailed with postage prepaid. Notices delivered by United States Express Mail or overnight courier that guarantees next day delivery shall be 
deemed given 24 hours after delivery of the same to the Postal Service or courier. Notices delivered by hand shall be deemed delivered upon actual receipt. If 
notice is received on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, it shall be deemed received on the next business day.
23.3 Options. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in order to exercise any Options (see paragraph 39), the Notice must be sent by Certified Mail (return receipt
143 of 460

--- page 144 ---
INITIALS
© 2019 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
MTN-26.30, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 14 of 18
requested), Express Mail (signature required), courier (signature required) or some other methodology that provides a receipt establishing the date the notice was 
received by the Lessor.
24.
Waivers.
(a)
No waiver by Lessor of the Default or Breach of any term, covenant or condition hereof by Lessee, shall be deemed a waiver of any other term, 
covenant or condition hereof, or of any subsequent Default or Breach by Lessee of the same or of any other term, covenant or condition hereof. Lessor's consent to, 
or approval of, any act shall not be deemed to render unnecessary the obtaining of Lessor's consent to, or approval of, any subsequent or similar act by Lessee, or be 
construed as the basis of an estoppel to enforce the provision or provisions of this Lease requiring such consent.
(b)
The acceptance of Rent by Lessor shall not be a waiver of any Default or Breach by Lessee. Any payment by Lessee may be accepted by Lessor on 
account of monies or damages due Lessor, notwithstanding any qualifying statements or conditions made by Lessee in connection therewith, which such statements 
and/or conditions shall be of no force or effect whatsoever unless specifically agreed to in writing by Lessor at or before the time of deposit of such payment.
(c)
THE PARTIES AGREE THAT THE TERMS OF THIS LEASE SHALL GOVERN WITH REGARD TO ALL MATTERS RELATED THERETO AND HEREBY WAIVE THE 
PROVISIONS OF ANY PRESENT OR FUTURE STATUTE TO THE EXTENT THAT SUCH STATUTE IS INCONSISTENT WITH THIS LEASE.
25.
Disclosures Regarding The Nature of a Real Estate Agency Relationship.
(a)
When entering into a discussion with a real estate agent regarding a real estate transaction, a Lessor or Lessee should from the outset understand 
what type of agency relationship or representation it has with the agent or agents in the transaction. Lessor and Lessee acknowledge being advised by the Brokers in 
this transaction, as follows:
(i)
Lessor's Agent. A Lessor's agent under a listing agreement with the Lessor acts as the agent for the Lessor only. A Lessor's agent or subagent 
has the following affirmative obligations: To the Lessor: A fiduciary duty of utmost care, integrity, honesty, and loyalty in dealings with the Lessor. To the Lessee and 
the Lessor: (a) Diligent exercise of reasonable skills and care in performance of the agent's duties. (b) A duty of honest and fair dealing and good faith. (c) A duty to 
disclose all facts known to the agent materially affecting the value or desirability of the property that are not known to, or within the diligent attention and 
observation of, the Parties. An agent is not obligated to reveal to either Party any confidential information obtained from the other Party which does not involve the 
affirmative duties set forth above.
(ii)
Lessee's Agent. An agent can agree to act as agent for the Lessee only. In these situations, the agent is not the Lessor's agent, even if by 
agreement the agent may receive compensation for services rendered, either in full or in part from the Lessor. An agent acting only for a Lessee has the following 
affirmative obligations. To the Lessee: A fiduciary duty of utmost care, integrity, honesty, and loyalty in dealings with the Lessee. To the Lessee and the Lessor: (a) 
Diligent exercise of reasonable skills and care in performance of the agent's duties. (b) A duty of honest and fair dealing and good faith. (c) A duty to disclose all facts 
known to the agent materially affecting the value or desirability of the property that are not known to, or within the diligent attention and observation of, the Parties. 
An agent is not obligated to reveal to either Party any confidential information obtained from the other Party which does not involve the affirmative duties set forth 
above.
(iii)
Agent Representing Both Lessor and Lessee. A real estate agent, either acting directly or through one or more associate licenses, can legally be 
the agent of both the Lessor and the Lessee in a transaction, but only with the knowledge and consent of both the Lessor and the Lessee. In a dual agency situation, 
the agent has the following affirmative obligations to both the Lessor and the Lessee: (a) A fiduciary duty of utmost care, integrity, honesty and loyalty in the dealings 
with either Lessor or the Lessee. (b) Other duties to the Lessor and the Lessee as stated above in subparagraphs (i) or (ii). In representing both Lessor and Lessee, the 
agent may not, without the express permission of the respective Party, disclose to the other Party confidential information, including, but not limited to, facts relating 
to either Lessee's or Lessor's financial position, motivations, bargaining position, or other personal information that may impact rent, including Lessor's willingness to 
accept a rent less than the listing rent or Lessee's willingness to pay rent greater than the rent offered.  The above duties of the agent in a real estate transaction do 
not relieve a Lessor or Lessee from the responsibility to protect their own interests. Lessor and Lessee should carefully read all agreements to assure that they 
adequately express their understanding of the transaction. A real estate agent is a person qualified to advise about real estate. If legal or tax advice is desired, consult 
a competent professional. Both Lessor and Lessee should strongly consider obtaining tax advice from a competent professional because the federal and state tax 
consequences of a transaction can be complex and subject to change.
(b)
Brokers have no responsibility with respect to any default or breach hereof by either Party. The Parties agree that no lawsuit or other legal 
proceeding involving any breach of duty, error or omission relating to this Lease may be brought against Broker more than one year after the Start Date and that the 
liability (including court costs and attorneys' fees), of any Broker with respect to any such lawsuit and/or legal proceeding shall not exceed the fee received by such 
Broker pursuant to this Lease; provided, however, that the foregoing limitation on each Broker's liability shall not be applicable to any gross negligence or willful 
misconduct of such Broker.
(c)
Lessor and Lessee agree to identify to Brokers as "Confidential" any communication or information given Brokers that is considered by such Party to 
be confidential.
26.
No Right To Holdover. Lessee has no right to retain possession of the Premises or any part thereof beyond the expiration or termination of this Lease.  At or 
prior to the expiration or termination of this Lease Lessee shall deliver exclusive possession of the Premises to Lessor. For purposes of this provision and Paragraph 
13.1(a), exclusive possession shall mean that Lessee shall have vacated the Premises, removed all of its personal property therefrom and that the Premises have been 
returned in the condition specified in this Lease. In the event that Lessee does not deliver exclusive possession to Lessor as specified above, then Lessor's damages 
during any holdover period shall be computed at the amount of the Rent (as defined in Paragraph 4.1) due during the last full month before the expiration or 
termination of this Lease (disregarding any temporary abatement of Rent that may have been in effect), but with Base Rent being 125% of the Base Rent payable 
during such last full month. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as consent by Lessor to any holding over by Lessee.
27.
Cumulative Remedies. No remedy or election hereunder shall be deemed exclusive but shall, wherever possible, be cumulative with all other remedies at law or 
in equity.
28.
Covenants and Conditions; Construction of Agreement. All provisions of this Lease to be observed or performed by Lessee are both covenants and conditions. 
In construing this Lease, all headings and titles are for the convenience of the Parties only and shall not be considered a part of this Lease. Whenever required by the 
context, the singular shall include the plural and vice versa. This Lease shall not be construed as if prepared by one of the Parties, but rather according to its fair 
meaning as a whole, as if both Parties had prepared it.
29.
Binding Effect; Choice of Law. This Lease shall be binding upon the Parties, their personal representatives, successors and assigns and be governed by the laws 
of the State in which the Premises are located. Any litigation between the Parties hereto concerning this Lease shall be initiated in the county in which the Premises 
are located. Signatures to this Lease accomplished by means of electronic signature or similar technology shall be legal and binding.
144 of 460

--- page 145 ---
INITIALS
© 2019 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
MTN-26.30, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 15 of 18
30.
Subordination;   Attornment; Non-Disturbance.
30.1 Subordination. This Lease and any Option granted hereby shall be subject and subordinate to any ground lease, mortgage, deed of trust, or other 
hypothecation or security device (collectively, "Security Device"), now or hereafter placed upon the Premises, to any and all advances made on the security thereof, 
and to all renewals, modifications, and extensions thereof. Lessee agrees that the holders of any such Security Devices (in this Lease together referred to as "Lender") 
shall have no liability or obligation to perform any of the obligations of Lessor under this Lease. Any Lender may elect to have this Lease and/or any Option granted 
hereby superior to the lien of its Security Device by giving written notice thereof to Lessee, whereupon this Lease and such Options shall be deemed prior to such 
Security Device, notwithstanding the relative dates of the documentation or recordation thereof.
30.2 Attornment. In the event that Lessor transfers title to the Premises, or the Premises are acquired by another upon the foreclosure or termination of a 
Security Device to which this Lease is subordinated (i) Lessee shall, subject to the non-disturbance provisions of Paragraph 30.3, attorn to such new owner, and upon 
request, enter into a new lease, containing all of the terms and provisions of this Lease, with such new owner for the remainder of the term hereof, or, at the election 
of the new owner, this Lease will automatically become a new lease between Lessee and such new owner, for the remainder of the term hereof and (ii) Lessor shall 
thereafter be relieved of any further obligations hereunder and such new owner shall assume all of Lessor's obligations, except that such new owner shall not: (a) be 
liable for any act or omission of any prior lessor or with respect to events occurring prior to acquisition of ownership; (b) be subject to any offsets or defenses which 
Lessee might have against any prior lessor, (c) be bound by prepayment of more than one month's rent, or (d) be liable for the return of any security deposit paid to 
any prior lessor which was not paid or credited to such new owner.
30.3 Non-Disturbance. With respect to Security Devices entered into by Lessor after the execution of this Lease, Lessee's subordination of this Lease shall be 
subject to receiving a commercially reasonable non-disturbance agreement (a "Non-Disturbance Agreement") from the Lender which Non-Disturbance Agreement 
provides that Lessee's possession of the Premises, and this Lease, including any options to extend the term hereof, will not be disturbed so long as Lessee is not in 
Breach hereof and attorns to the record owner of the Premises. Further, within 60 days after the execution of this Lease, Lessor shall, if requested by Lessee, use its 
commercially reasonable efforts to obtain a Non-Disturbance Agreement from the holder of any pre-existing Security Device which is secured by the Premises. In the 
event that Lessor is unable to provide the Non-Disturbance Agreement within said 60 days, then Lessee may, at Lessee's option, directly contact Lender and attempt 
to negotiate for the execution and delivery of a Non-Disturbance Agreement.
30.4 Self-Executing. The agreements contained in this Paragraph 30 shall be effective without the execution of any further documents; provided, however, that, 
upon written request from Lessor or a Lender in connection with a sale, financing or refinancing of the Premises, Lessee and Lessor shall execute such further writings 
as may be reasonably required to separately document any subordination, attornment and/or Non-Disturbance Agreement provided for herein.
31.
Attorneys' Fees. See Paragraph  54   in  the   Addendum  attached hereto.
32.
Lessor's Access; Showing Premises; Repairs. Lessor and Lessor's agents shall have the right to enter the Premises at any time, in the case of an emergency, and 
otherwise at reasonable times after reasonable prior notice for the purpose of showing the same to prospective purchasers, lenders, or tenants, and making such 
alterations, repairs, improvements or additions to the Premises as Lessor may deem necessary or desirable and the erecting, using and maintaining of utilities, 
services, pipes and conduits through the Premises and/or other premises as long as there is no material adverse effect on Lessee's use of the Premises. All such 
activities shall be without abatement of rent or liability to Lessee.
33.
Auctions. Lessee shall not conduct, nor permit to be conducted, any auction upon the Premises without Lessor's prior written consent. Lessor shall not be 
obligated to exercise any standard of reasonableness in determining whether to permit an auction.
34.
Signs. Lessor may place on the Premises ordinary "For Sale" signs at any time and ordinary "For Lease" signs during the last 6 months of the term hereof. Except 
for ordinary "For Sublease" signs which may be placed only on the Premises, Lessee shall not place any sign upon the Project without Lessor's prior written consent. 
All signs must comply with all Applicable Requirements.
35.
Termination; Merger. Unless specifically stated otherwise in writing by Lessor, the voluntary or other surrender of this Lease by Lessee, the mutual termination 
or cancellation hereof, or a termination hereof by Lessor for Breach by Lessee, shall automatically terminate any sublease or lesser estate in the Premises; provided, 
however, that Lessor may elect to continue any one or all existing subtenancies. Lessor's failure within 10 days following any such event to elect to the contrary by 
written notice to the holder of any such lesser interest, shall constitute Lessor's election to have such event constitute the termination of such interest.
36.
Consents. All requests for consent shall be in writing. Except as otherwise provided herein, wherever in this Lease the consent of a Party is required to an act by 
or for the other Party, such consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. Lessor's actual reasonable costs and expenses (including but not limited to 
architects', attorneys', engineers' and other consultants' fees) incurred in the consideration of, or response to, a request by Lessee for any Lessor consent, including 
but not limited to consents to an assignment, a subletting or the presence or use of a Hazardous Substance, shall be paid by Lessee upon receipt of an invoice and 
supporting documentation therefor. Lessor's consent to any act, assignment or subletting shall not constitute an acknowledgment that no Default or Breach by Lessee 
of this Lease exists, nor shall such consent be deemed a waiver of any then existing Default or Breach, except as may be otherwise specifically stated in writing by 
Lessor at the time of such consent. The failure to specify herein any particular condition to Lessor's consent shall not preclude the imposition by Lessor at the time of 
consent of such further or other conditions as are then reasonable with reference to the particular matter for which consent is being given. In the event that either 
Party disagrees with any determination made by the other hereunder and reasonably requests the reasons for such determination, the determining party shall furnish 
its reasons in writing and in reasonable detail within 10 business days following such request.
37.
Guarantor.
37.1 Execution. The Guarantors, if any, shall each execute a guaranty in the form most recently published BY AIR CRE. In the event Lessee sublets the 
Premises and Lessor allows the new subtenant to become a Guarantor, the previous Guarantor shall be released from all liability under this Lease.
37.2 Default. It shall constitute a Default of the Lessee if any Guarantor fails or refuses, upon request to provide: (a) evidence of the execution of the guaranty, 
including the authority of the party signing on Guarantor's behalf to obligate Guarantor, and in the case of a corporate Guarantor, a certified copy of a resolution of its
145 of 460

--- page 146 ---
INITIALS
© 2019 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
MTN-26.30, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 16 of 18
board of directors authorizing the making of such guaranty, (b) current financial statements, (c) an Estoppel Certificate, or (d) written confirmation that the guaranty is 
still in effect.
38.
Quiet Possession. Subject to payment by Lessee of the Rent and performance of all of the covenants, conditions and provisions on Lessee's part to be observed 
and performed under this Lease, Lessee shall have quiet possession and quiet enjoyment of the Premises during the term hereof.
39.
Options. If Lessee is granted any option, as defined below, then the following provisions shall apply.
39.1 Definition. "Option" shall mean: (a) the right to extend or reduce the term of or renew this Lease or to extend or reduce the term of or renew any lease 
that Lessee has on other property of Lessor; (b) the right of first refusal or first offer to lease either the Premises or other property of Lessor; (c) the right to purchase, 
the right of first offer to purchase or the right of first refusal to purchase the Premises or other property of Lessor.
39.2 Options Personal To Original Lessee. Any Option granted to Lessee in this Lease is personal to the original Lessee, and cannot be assigned or exercised by 
anyone other than said original Lessee .
39.3 Multiple Options. In the event that Lessee has any multiple Options to extend or renew this Lease, a later Option cannot be exercised unless the prior 
Options have been validly exercised.
39.4 Effect of Default on Options.
(a)
Lessee shall have no right to exercise an Option: (i) during the period commencing with the giving of any notice of Default and continuing until said 
Default is cured, (ii) during the period of time any Rent is unpaid (without regard to whether notice thereof is given Lessee), (iii) during the time Lessee is in Breach of 
this Lease, or (iv) in the event that Lessee has been given 3 or more notices of separate Default, whether or not the Defaults are cured, during the 12 month period 
immediately preceding the exercise of the Option.
(b)
The period of time within which an Option may be exercised shall not be extended or enlarged by reason of Lessee's inability to exercise an Option 
because of the provisions of Paragraph 39.4(a).
(c)
An Option shall terminate and be of no further force or effect, notwithstanding Lessee's due and timely exercise of the Option, if, after such exercise 
and prior to the commencement of the extended term or completion of the purchase, (i) Lessee fails to pay Rent for a period of 30 days after such Rent becomes due 
(without any necessity of Lessor to give notice thereof), or (ii) if Lessee commits a Breach of this Lease.
40.
Security Measures. Lessee hereby acknowledges that the Rent payable to Lessor hereunder does not include the cost of guard service or other security 
measures, and that Lessor shall have no obligation whatsoever to provide same. Lessee assumes all responsibility for the protection of the Premises, Lessee, its 
agents and invitees and their property from the acts of third parties.
41.
Reservations. Lessor reserves the right: (i) to grant, without the consent or joinder of Lessee, such easements, rights and dedications that Lessor deems 
necessary; (ii) to cause the recordation of parcel maps and restrictions; and (iii) to create and/or install new utility raceways, so long as such easements, rights, 
dedications, maps, restrictions, and utility raceways do not unreasonably interfere with the use of the Premises by Lessee. Lessee agrees to sign any documents 
reasonably requested by Lessor to effectuate such rights.
42.
Performance Under Protest. If at any time a dispute shall arise as to any amount or sum of money to be paid by one Party to the other under the provisions 
hereof, the Party against whom the obligation to pay the money is asserted shall have the right to make payment "under protest" and such payment shall not be 
regarded as a voluntary payment and there shall survive the right on the part of said Party to institute suit for recovery of such sum. If it shall be adjudged that there 
was no legal obligation on the part of said Party to pay such sum or any part thereof, said Party shall be entitled to recover such sum or so much thereof as it was not 
legally required to pay. A Party who does not initiate suit for the recovery of sums paid "under protest" within 6 months shall be deemed to have waived its right to 
protest such payment.
43.
Authority; Multiple Parties; Execution.
(a)
If either Party hereto is a corporation, trust, limited liability company, partnership, or similar entity, each individual executing this Lease on behalf of 
such entity represents and warrants that he or she is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Lease on its behalf. Each Party shall, within 30 days after request, 
deliver to the other Party satisfactory evidence of such authority.
(b)
If this Lease is executed by more than one person or entity as "Lessee", each such person or entity shall be jointly and severally liable hereunder. It is 
agreed that any one of the named Lessees shall be empowered to execute any amendment to this Lease, or other document ancillary thereto and bind all of the 
named Lessees, and Lessor may rely on the same as if all of the named Lessees had executed such document.
(c)
This Lease may be executed by the Parties in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which together shall constitute one 
and the same instrument.
44.
Conflict. Any conflict between the printed provisions of this Lease and the typewritten or handwritten provisions shall be controlled by the typewritten or 
handwritten provisions.
45.
Offer. Preparation of this Lease by either party or their agent and submission of same to the other Party shall not be deemed an offer to lease to the other 
Party.  This Lease is not intended to be binding until executed and delivered by all Parties hereto.
46.
Amendments. This Lease may be modified only in writing, signed by the Parties in interest at the time of the modification. As long as they do not materially 
change Lessee's obligations hereunder, Lessee agrees to make such reasonable non-monetary modifications to this Lease as may be reasonably required by a Lender 
in connection with the obtaining of normal financing or refinancing of the Premises.
47.
Waiver of Jury Trial. THE PARTIES HEREBY WAIVE THEIR RESPECTIVE RIGHTS TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING INVOLVING THE 
PROPERTY OR ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT.
48.
Arbitration of Disputes. An Addendum requiring the Arbitration of all disputes between the Parties and/or Brokers arising out of this Lease
is
is not 
attached to  this Lease.    See Paragraph 55 in the Addendum attached hereto.
49.
Accessibility; Americans with Disabilities Act.
(a)
The Premises:
have not undergone an inspection by a Certified Access Specialist (CASp). Note: A Certified Access Specialist (CASp) can inspect the subject premises and
146 of 460

--- page 147 ---
INITIALS
© 2019 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
MTN-26.30, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 17 of 18
determine whether the subject premises comply with all of the applicable construction-related accessibility standards under state law. Although state law does not 
require a CASp inspection of the subject premises, the commercial property owner or lessor may not prohibit the lessee or tenant from obtaining a CASp inspection of 
the subject premises for the occupancy or potential occupancy of the lessee or tenant, if requested by the lessee or tenant. The parties shall mutually agree on the 
arrangements for the time and manner of the CASp inspection, the payment of the fee for the CASp inspection, and the cost of making any repairs necessary to 
correct violations of construction-related accessibility standards within the premises.
have undergone an inspection by a Certified Access Specialist (CASp) and it was determined that the Premises met all applicable construction-related accessibility 
standards pursuant to California Civil Code §55.51 et seq. Lessee acknowledges that it received a copy of the inspection report at least 48 hours prior to executing this 
Lease and agrees to keep such report confidential.
have undergone an inspection by a Certified Access Specialist (CASp) and it was determined that the Premises did not meet all applicable construction-related 
accessibility standards pursuant to California Civil Code §55.51 et seq. Lessee acknowledges that it received a copy of the inspection report at least 48 hours prior to 
executing this Lease and agrees to keep such report confidential except as necessary to complete repairs and corrections of violations of construction related 
accessibility standards.
In the event that the Premises have been issued an inspection report by a CASp the Lessor shall provide a copy of the disability access inspection certificate to Lessee 
within 7 days of the execution of this Lease.
(b)
Since compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and other state and local accessibility statutes are dependent upon Lessee's specific use of 
the Premises, Lessor makes no warranty or representation as to whether or not the Premises comply with ADA or any similar legislation. In the event that Lessee's use 
of the Premises requires modifications or additions to the Premises in order to be in compliance with ADA or other accessibility statutes, Lessee agrees to make any 
such necessary modifications and/or additions at Lessee's expense.
LESSOR AND LESSEE HAVE CAREFULLY READ AND REVIEWED THIS LEASE AND EACH TERM AND PROVISION CONTAINED HEREIN, AND BY THE EXECUTION 
OF THIS LEASE SHOW THEIR INFORMED AND VOLUNTARY CONSENT THERETO. THE PARTIES HEREBY AGREE THAT, AT THE TIME THIS LEASE IS EXECUTED, 
THE TERMS OF THIS LEASE ARE COMMERCIALLY REASONABLE AND EFFECTUATE THE INTENT AND PURPOSE OF LESSOR AND LESSEE WITH RESPECT TO 
THE PREMISES.
ATTENTION: NO REPRESENTATION OR RECOMMENDATION IS MADE BY AIR CRE OR BY ANY BROKER AS TO THE LEGAL SUFFICIENCY, LEGAL EFFECT, 
OR TAX CONSEQUENCES OF THIS LEASE OR THE TRANSACTION TO WHICH IT RELATES.  THE PARTIES ARE URGED TO:
1.
SEEK ADVICE OF COUNSEL AS TO THE LEGAL AND TAX CONSEQUENCES OF THIS LEASE.
2.
RETAIN APPROPRIATE CONSULTANTS TO REVIEW AND INVESTIGATE THE CONDITION OF THE PREMISES. SAID INVESTIGATION SHOULD INCLUDE BUT 
NOT BE LIMITED TO: THE POSSIBLE PRESENCE OF HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES, THE ZONING OF THE PREMISES, THE STRUCTURAL INTEGRITY, THE 
CONDITION OF THE ROOF AND OPERATING SYSTEMS, COMPLIANCE WITH THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT AND THE SUITABILITY OF THE 
PREMISES FOR LESSEE'S INTENDED USE.
WARNING: IF THE PREMISES ARE LOCATED IN A STATE OTHER THAN CALIFORNIA, CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF THE LEASE MAY NEED TO BE REVISED TO 
COMPLY WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE IN WHICH THE PREMISES ARE LOCATED.
The parties hereto have executed this Lease at the place and on the dates specified above their respective signatures.
Executed at:                                            
On:   
By LESSOR:
   CITY OF SAN MATEO
By:
Name Printed:     Alex Khojikian
Title:     City Manager
APPROVED AS TO  FORM:
By:
Name Printed:   Mazarin Vakharia 
Title: Assistant City Attorney 
Address: 330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA
 
94403
Executed at:                        
On:   
By LESSEE:
   COLD STONE CREAMERY LEASING COMPANY, INC.
By:
Name Printed:   
Title:
 
Phone:
 
Fax:
 
Email:   
147 of 460

--- page 148 ---
INITIALS
© 2019 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
MTN-26.30, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 18 of 18
BROKER 
  Prodesse Property Group
Attn:     Dean Isaacs
Title:     Commercial Portfolio Manager 
Address: 1065 E. Hillsdale Blvd., Suite 317, 
Foster City, CA
94404
Phone:     (650) 578-9661
Fax:     (650) 578-9009
Email:     dean.isaacs@eprodesse.com
Federal ID No.:   
        
Broker DRE License #:      
01167036 Agent DRE License #:     
00807972
AIR CRE * https://www.aircre.com * 213-687-8777 * contracts@aircre.com  
NOTICE: No part of these works may be reproduced in any form without permission in writing.
148 of 460

--- page 149 ---
INITIALS
© 2019 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
AD-3.01, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 1 of 3
DISCLOSURE REGARDING REAL ESTATE AGENCY RELATIONSHIP
(As required by the Civil Code)
When you enter into a discussion with a real estate agent regarding a real estate transaction, you should from the outset understand what type of agency relationship 
or representation you wish to have with the agent in the transaction.
SELLER'S AGENT
A Seller's agent under a listing agreement with the Seller acts as the agent for the Seller only. A Seller's agent or a subagent of that agent has the following affirmative 
obligations:
To the Seller: A fiduciary duty of utmost care, integrity, honesty and loyalty in dealings with the Seller. 
To the Buyer and the Seller:
(a)
Diligent exercise of reasonable skill and care in performance of the agent's duties.
(b)
A duty of honest and fair dealing and good faith.
(c)
A duty to disclose all facts known to the agent materially affecting the value or desirability of the property that are not known to, or within the diligent attention 
and observation of, the parties.
An agent is not obligated to reveal to either party any confidential information obtained from the other party that does not involve the affirmative duties set 
forth above.
BUYER'S AGENT
A Buyer's agent can, with a Buyer's consent, agree to act as agent for the Buyer only. In these situations, the agent is not the Seller's agent, even if by agreement the 
agent may receive compensation for services rendered, either in full or in part from the Seller. An agent acting only for a Buyer has the following affirmative 
obligations:
To the Buyer: A fiduciary duty of utmost care, integrity, honesty and loyalty in dealings with the Buyer. 
To the Buyer and the Seller:
(a)
Diligent exercise of reasonable skill and care in performance of the agent's duties.
(b)
A duty of honest and fair dealing and good faith.
(c)
A duty to disclose all facts known to the agent materially affecting the value or desirability of the property that are not known to, or within the diligent 
attention and observation of, the parties.
An agent is not obligated to reveal to either party any confidential information obtained from the other party that does not involve the affirmative duties set forth 
above.
AGENT REPRESENTING BOTH SELLER AND BUYER
A real estate agent, either acting directly or through one or more salesperson and broker associates, can legally be the agent of both the Seller and the Buyer in a 
transaction, but only with the knowledge and consent of both the Seller and the Buyer.
In a dual agency situation, the agent has the following affirmative obligations to both the Seller and the Buyer:
(a)
A fiduciary duty of utmost care, integrity, honesty and loyalty in the dealings with either the Seller or the Buyer.
(b)
Other duties to the Seller and the Buyer as stated above in their respective sections.
In representing both Seller and Buyer, a dual agent may not, without the express permission of the respective party, disclose to the other party confidential 
information, including, but not limited to, facts relating to either the Buyer's or Seller's financial position, motivations, bargaining position, or other personal 
information that may impact price, including the Seller's willingness to accept a price less than the listing price or the Buyer's willingness to pay a price greater than 
the price offered.
SELLER  AND  BUYER RESPONSIBILITIES
Either the purchase agreement or a separate document will contain a confirmation of which agent is representing you and whether that agent is representing you 
exclusively in the transaction or acting as a dual agent. Please pay attention to that confirmation to make sure it accurately reflects your understanding of your agent’s 
role. The above duties of the agent in a real estate transaction do not relieve a Seller or Buyer from the responsibility to protect his or her own interests. You should 
carefully read all agreements to assure that they adequately express your understanding of the transaction. A real estate agent is a person qualified to advise about 
real estate. If legal or tax advice is desired, consult a competent professional. If you are a Buyer, you have the duty to exercise reasonable care to protect yourself, 
including as to those facts about the property which are known to you or within your diligent attention and observation. Both Sellers and Buyers should strongly 
consider obtaining tax advice from a competent professional because the federal and state tax consequences of a transaction can be complex and subject to change.
Throughout your real property transaction you may receive more than one disclosure form, depending upon the number of agents assisting in the transaction. The 
law requires each agent with whom you have more than a casual relationship to present you with this disclosure form. You should read its contents each time it is 
presented to you, considering the relationship between you and the real estate agent in your specific transaction. This disclosure form includes the provisions of 
Sections 2079.13 to 2079.24, inclusive, of the Civil Code set forth on page 2. Read it carefully. I/WE ACKNOWLEDGE RECEIPT OF A COPY OF THIS DISCLOSURE AND 
THE PORTIONS OF THE CIVIL CODE PRINTED ON THE BACK (OR A SEPARATE PAGE).
Buyer
Seller
Lessor
Lessee
Date:
Buyer
Seller
Lessor
Lessee
Date:   
Agent:       Prodesse Property Group
DRE Lic. #:    01167036
Real Estate Broker (Firm)
By:
DRE Lic. #:      00807972
Date:   
(Salesperson or Broker-Associate)
THIS FORM HAS BEEN PREPARED BY AIR CRE. NO REPRESENTATION IS MADE AS TO THE LEGAL VALIDITY OR ADEQUACY OF THIS FORM FOR ANY SPECIFIC 
TRANSACTION. PLEASE SEEK LEGAL COUNSEL AS TO THE APPROPRIATENESS OF THIS FORM.
149 of 460

--- page 150 ---
INITIALS
© 2019 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
AD-3.01, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 2 of 3
DISCLOSURE REGARDING REAL ESTATE AGENCY RELATIONSHIP
CIVIL CODE SECTIONS 2079.13 THROUGH 2079.24 (2079.16 APPEARS ON THE FRONT)
2079.13. As used in Sections 2079.7 and 2079.14 to 2079.24, inclusive, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a) “Agent” means a person acting under provisions of Title 9 (commencing with Section 2295) in a real property transaction, and includes a person who is licensed as 
a real estate broker under Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 10130) of Part 1 of Division 4 of the Business and Professions Code, and under whose license a listing 
is executed or an offer to purchase is obtained. The agent in the real property transaction bears responsibility for that agent’s salespersons or broker associates who 
perform as agents of the agent. When a salesperson or broker associate owes a duty to any principal, or to any buyer or seller who is not a principal, in a real property 
transaction, that duty is equivalent to the duty owed to that party by the broker for whom the salesperson or broker associate functions. (b) “Buyer” means a 
transferee in a real property transaction, and includes a person who executes an offer to purchase real property from a seller through an agent, or who seeks the 
services of an agent in more than a casual, transitory, or preliminary manner, with the object of entering into a real property transaction. “Buyer” includes vendee or 
lessee of real property. (c) “Commercial real property” means all real property in the state, except (1) single-family residential real property, (2) dwelling units made 
subject to Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 1940) of Title 5, (3) a mobilehome, as defined in Section 798.3, (4) vacant land, or (5) a recreational vehicle, as defined 
in Section 799.29. (d) “Dual agent” means an agent acting, either directly or through a salesperson or broker associate, as agent for both the seller and the buyer in a 
real property transaction. (e) “Listing agreement” means a written contract between a seller of real property and an agent, by which the agent has been authorized to 
sell the real property or to find or obtain a buyer, including rendering other services for which a real estate license is required to the seller pursuant to the terms of the 
agreement. (f) “Seller's agent” means a person who has obtained a listing of real property to act as an agent for compensation. (g) “Listing price” is the amount 
expressed in dollars specified in the listing for which the seller is willing to sell the real property through the seller’s agent. (h) “Offering price” is the amount 
expressed in dollars specified in an offer to purchase for which the buyer is willing to buy the real property. (i) “Offer to purchase” means a written contract executed 
by a buyer acting through a buyer’s agent that becomes the contract for the sale of the real property upon acceptance by the seller. (j) “Real property” means any 
estate specified by subdivision (1) or (2) of Section 761 in property, and includes (1) single-family residential property, (2) multiunit residential property with more 
than four dwelling units, (3) commercial real property, (4) vacant land, (5) a ground lease coupled with improvements, or (6) a manufactured home as defined in 
Section 18007 of the Health and Safety Code, or a mobilehome as defined in Section 18008 of the Health and Safety Code, when offered for sale or sold through an 
agent pursuant to the authority contained in Section 10131.6 of the Business and Professions Code. (k) “Real property transaction” means a transaction for the sale of 
real property in which an agent is retained by a buyer, seller, or both a buyer and seller to act in that transaction, and includes a listing or an offer to purchase. (l) 
“Sell,” “sale,” or “sold” refers to a transaction for the transfer of real property from the seller to the buyer and includes exchanges of real property between the seller 
and buyer, transactions for the creation of a real property sales contract within the meaning of Section 2985, and transactions for the creation of a leasehold 
exceeding one year’s duration. (m) “Seller” means the transferor in a real property transaction and includes an owner who lists real property with an agent, whether 
or not a transfer results, or who receives an offer to purchase real property of which he or she is the owner from an agent on behalf of another. “Seller” includes both 
a vendor and a lessor of real property. (n) “Buyer's agent” means an agent who represents a buyer in a real property transaction.
2079.14. A seller’s agent and buyer’s agent shall provide the seller and buyer in a real property transaction with a copy of the disclosure form specified in Section 
2079.16, and shall obtain a signed acknowledgment of receipt from that seller and buyer, except as provided in Section 2079.15, as follows: (a) The seller’s agent, if 
any, shall provide the disclosure form to the seller prior to entering into the listing agreement. (b) The buyer’s agent shall provide the disclosure form to the buyer as 
soon as practicable prior to execution of the buyer’s offer to purchase. If the offer to purchase is not prepared by the buyer’s agent, the buyer’s agent shall present the 
disclosure form to the buyer not later than the next business day after receiving the offer to purchase from the buyer.
2079.15. In any circumstance in which the seller or buyer refuses to sign an acknowledgment of receipt pursuant to Section 2079.14, the agent shall set forth, sign, 
and date a written declaration of the facts of the refusal.
2079.16 Reproduced on Page 1 of this AD form.
2079.17(a) As soon as practicable, the buyer’s agent shall disclose to the buyer and seller whether the agent is acting in the real property transaction as the buyer’s 
agent, or as a dual agent representing both the buyer and the seller. This relationship shall be confirmed in the contract to purchase and sell real property or in a 
separate writing executed or acknowledged by the seller, the buyer, and the buyer’s agent prior to or coincident with execution of that contract by the buyer and the 
seller, respectively. (b) As soon as practicable, the seller’s agent shall disclose to the seller whether the seller’s agent is acting in the real property transaction as the 
seller’s agent, or as a dual agent representing both the buyer and seller. This relationship shall be confirmed in the contract to purchase and sell real property or in a 
separate writing executed or acknowledged by the seller and the seller’s agent prior to or coincident with the execution of that contract by the seller.
(C) CONFIRMATION: The following agency relationships are confirmed for this transaction.
Seller's Brokerage Firm   NOT APPLICABLE 
License Number   
Is the broker of (check one): o the seller; or o both the buyer and seller. (dual agent)
Seller's Agent   NOT APPLICABLE
License Number   
Is (check one): o the Seller's Agent. (salesperson or broker associate); or o both the Buyer's Agent and the Seller's Agent. (dual agent) 
Buyer's Brokerage Firm NOT APPLICABLE License Number   
Is the broker of (check one): o the buyer; or o both the buyer and seller. (dual agent)
Buyer's Agent   NOT APPLICABLE
License Number   
Is (check one): o the Buyer's Agent. (salesperson or broker associate); or o both the Buyer's Agent and the Seller's Agent. (dual agent)
(d) The disclosures and confirmation required by this section shall be in addition to the disclosure required by Section 2079.14. An agent’s duty to provide disclosure 
and confirmation of representation in this section may be performed by a real estate salesperson or broker associate affiliated with that broker.
2079.18 (Repealed pursuant to AB-1289, 2017-18 California Legislative session)
2079.19 The payment of compensation or the obligation to pay compensation to an agent by the seller or buyer is not necessarily determinative of a particular agency 
relationship between an agent and the seller or buyer. A listing agent and a selling agent may agree to share any compensation or commission paid, or any right to any 
compensation or commission for which an obligation arises as the result of a real estate transaction, and the terms of any such agreement shall not necessarily be 
determinative of a particular relationship.
2079.20 Nothing in this article prevents an agent from selecting, as a condition of the agent’s employment, a specific form of agency relationship not specifically
150 of 460

--- page 151 ---
INITIALS
© 2019 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
AD-3.01, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 3 of 3
prohibited by this article if the requirements of Section 2079.14 and Section 2079.17 are complied with.
2079.21 (a) A dual agent may not, without the express permission of the seller, disclose to the buyer any confidential information obtained from the seller. (b) A dual 
agent may not, without the express permission of the buyer, disclose to the seller any confidential information obtained from the buyer. (c) “Confidential information” 
means facts relating to the client’s financial position, motivations, bargaining position, or other personal information that may impact price, such as the seller is willing 
to accept a price less than the listing price or the buyer is willing to pay a price greater than the price offered. (d) This section does not alter in any way the duty or 
responsibility of a dual agent to any principal with respect to confidential information other than price.
2079.22 Nothing in this article precludes a seller’s agent from also being a buyer’s agent. If a seller or buyer in a transaction chooses to not be represented by an 
agent, that does not, of itself, make that agent a dual agent.
2079.23 (a) A contract between the principal and agent may be modified or altered to change the agency relationship at any time before the performance of the act 
which is the object of the agency with the written consent of the parties to the agency relationship.  (b) A lender or an auction company retained by a lender to 
control aspects of a transaction of real property subject to this part, including validating the sales price, shall not require, as a condition of receiving the lender’s 
approval of the transaction, the homeowner or listing agent to defend or indemnify the lender or auction company from any liability alleged to result from the actions 
of the lender or auction company. Any clause, provision, covenant, or agreement purporting to impose an obligation to defend or indemnify a lender or an auction 
company in violation of this subdivision is against public policy, void, and unenforceable.
2079.24 Nothing in this article shall be construed to either diminish the duty of disclosure owed buyers and sellers by agents and their associate licensees, subagents, 
and employees or to relieve agents and their associate licensees, subagents, and employees from liability for their conduct in connection with acts governed by this 
article or for any breach of a fiduciary duty or a duty of disclosure.
AIR CRE * https://www.aircre.com * 213-687-8777 * contracts@aircre.com  
NOTICE: No part of these works may be reproduced in any form without permission in writing.
151 of 460

--- page 152 ---
INITIALS
© 2017 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
ADD-1.03, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 1 of 2
ADDENDUM TO LEASE
Date:
November 1, 2023
By and Between
Lessor:
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Lessee:
COLD STONE CREAMERY LEASING COMPANY, INC.
Property Address:
375 Second Avenue, San Mateo, CA
94401
(street address, city, state, zip)
Paragraph:     50-55
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Addendum and the printed provisions of the Lease, this Addendum shall control.
AIR CRE * https://www.aircre.com * 213-687-8777 * contracts@aircre.com  
NOTICE: No part of these works may be reproduced in any form without permission in writing.
50. Prop 65. California’s Proposition 65, officially known as the Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement 
Act of 1986 (“Prop. 65”), was enacted as a ballot initiative in November 1986. Prop. 65 protects the state's 
drinking water sources from being contaminated with chemicals known to cause cancer, birth defects or other 
reproductive harm, and requires businesses to inform Californians about exposures to such chemicals. 
Proposition 65 requires the state to maintain and update a list of chemicals known to the state to cause cancer 
or reproductive toxicity. For more information, see the internet site of the California Environmental Protection 
Agency’s Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA), which administers the Prop. 65 
program, https://oehha.ca.gov/proposition-65/about-proposition-65. Tenant shall undertake and implement 
all notice and warning requirements applicable at and regarding the Premises, on behalf of Tenant, Landlord, 
and Landlord’s property managers, members, directors, officers, agents, and employees.
51. Water Intrusion. Lessee is aware that there is an existing building design component that has allowed 
water intrusion in the past. Though there has been considerable effort to mitigate the situation, the Lessee will 
acknowledge that in severe weather, there may be water intrusion at the doors, water draining from the doors 
on the interior floor when doors are opened, and wind-driven water entering the air shaft and to the retail 
space. Lessee is responsible for the immediate removal of the water and immediate notification of intrusion to 
the Lessor.
Items listed as exceptions shall be dealt with in the following manner: Lessee is responsible for the immediate 
notification to Lessor of maintenance, loss, damage or any other issues related to the Premises as indicated: 
maintenance issues - Public Works, (650) 522-7300, claims - first Lessee's insurer as stated in the Lease, 
secondly, the City Attorney's Department (650) 522-7020, all other questions - Economic Development, (650) 
522-7240. If properly notified, Lessor will pay up to a total of $25,000.00 over the term of the Lease to repair 
damages to the Premises resulting from water intrusion.
52. Costs and Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as 
costs (by the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Lease. The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, 
or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions. It is the intent of this 
provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for attorney fees arising out of an 
action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Lease.
53. Mediation.  Should any  dispute  arise  out of  this  Lease,  any  party may  request  that  it  be submitted  to
152 of 460

--- page 153 ---
INITIALS
© 2017 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
ADD-1.03, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 2 of 2
mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within thirty (30) days of a request. The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one name 
from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the California State Board of Mediation 
and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
54.
Governing Law and Venue. This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of California and, 
in the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
55.
Notice of Damage, Maintenance or Loss. Lessee is responsible for the immediate notification to 
Lessee of maintenance, loss, damage or any other issues related to the Premises as indicated:
□
Maintenance Issues, - Public Works, 650-522-7300
□
Claims - First, Tenant insurer as stated in Lease, secondly, the City Attorney’s Department, 650-522-
7020
□
All other questions – City Manager’s Office, 650-522-7000
56. Subletting. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Lease, Tenant shall have the  
right, without Landlord's consent and without the imposition of any fees, to sublet the Premises (each a 
“Permitted Sublease”) to a duly authorized franchisee approved Franchisor, and provided that one of such 
franchisee’s principals has a minimum of 2 years’ experience in retail sales, operations or ownership, whereby 
such franchisee agrees to assume and perform all covenants and conditions of Tenant contained in this Lease 
pursuant to the terms of a sublease. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, following any 
Permitted Sublease, Tenant shall not be released from any liability under this Lease.
153 of 460

--- page 154 ---
RENT ADJUSTMENT(S)
(ORIGINAL TERM) 
STANDARD LEASE ADDENDUM
Dated:
November 1, 2023
By and Between
Lessor:
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Lessee:
COLD STONE CREAMERY LEASING COMPANY, INC.
Property Address:
375 Second Avenue, San Mateo, CA
94401
(street address, city, state, zip)
Paragraph:     56
The monthly Base Rent during the Original Term of the Lease shall be increased by using the method(s) selected below (check method(s) to be used and fill in 
appropriately):
I.
Consumer Price Index.
a.
The monthly Base Rent shall be increased on 
and every
months thereafter during the Original Term ("CPI Increase 
Date(s)") commensurate with the increase in the CPI (as herein defined) determined as follows: the monthly Base Rent scheduled for the first month of the Original 
Term shall be multiplied by a fraction the denominator of which is the Base CPI (as herein defined), and the numerator of which is the Comparison CPI (as herein 
defined). The amount so calculated shall constitute the new Base Rent until the next CPI Increase Date, but in no event shall any such new Base Rent be less than the 
Base Rent for the month immediately preceding the applicable CPI Increase Date.
b.
The term "CPI" shall mean the Consumer Price Index of the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor for (select one):
CPI W
(Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers) or
CPI U (All Urban Consumers), for (fill in Urban Area): 
or
the area in which the Premises is located, 
All Items (1982-1984 = 100). The term "Comparison CPI" shall mean the CPI of the calendar month which is 2 full months prior to the applicable Original Term CPI 
Increase Date. The term "Base CPI" shall mean the CPI of the calendar month which is 2 full months prior to the Commencement Date of the Original Term.
c.
If the compilation and/or publication of the CPI is transferred to another governmental department, bureau or agency or is discontinued, then instead 
the index most nearly the same as the CPI shall be used to calculate the Base Rent increases hereunder. If the Parties cannot agree on such alternative index, then the 
matter shall be submitted for decision to the American Arbitration Association in accordance with the then rules of said association and the decision of the arbitrators 
shall be binding upon the parties, with the cost of such arbitration being paid equally by the Parties.
II.
Fixed Percentage.  The monthly Base Rent shall be increased on 
and every 
months thereafter during the Original Term 
("Percentage Increase Date(s)") by 
percent ( 
%) of the monthly Base Rent scheduled to be paid for the month immediately preceding the 
applicable Percentage Increase Date.
III.
Fixed Rental Adjustment(s) ("FRA").
The monthly Base Rent shall be increased to the following amounts on the dates set forth below:
On (fill in FRA Adjustment Date(s)):
The new Base Rent shall be:
  November 1, 2024
$3,341.84 per month
  November 1, 2025
$3,442.09 per month
  November 1, 2026
$3,545.35 per month
  November 1, 2027
$3,651.71 per month
BROKER'S FEE: For each adjustment in Base Rent specified above, the Brokers shall be paid a Brokerage Fee in accordance with paragraph 15 of the Lease or if 
applicable, paragraph 9 of the Sublease.
AIR CRE  *  https://www.aircre.com  *  213-687-8777  * contracts@aircre.com
154 of 460

--- page 155 ---
1.2 Attachments

Site Plan

'
H

aTédiT avomceoes:
— =o eT
cee ino

Main Street

375 2nd Ave

VW Rae 3 LAS

Floor Plan

34.0" HIGHICONC. WALL

EXISTING FLOOR PLAN OF PREMISES

(3)

reat
HANH GOW, Ws.

anueny puorag

155 of 460


--- page 156 ---
INITIALS
© 2017 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
OE-6.02, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 1 of 2
OPTION(S) TO EXTEND
STANDARD LEASE ADDENDUM
Dated:
November 1, 2023
By and Between
Lessor:
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Lessee:
COLD STONE CREAMERY LEASING COMPANY, INC.
Property Address:
375 Second Avenue, San Mateo, CA
94401
(street address, city, state, zip)
Paragraph:     57
A.
OPTION(S) TO  EXTEND:
Lessor hereby grants to Lessee the option to extend the term of this Lease for one (1)  additional  sixty (60) month period(s) commencing 
when the prior term expires upon each and all of the following terms and conditions:
(i)
In order to exercise an option to extend, Lessee must give written notice of such election to Lessor and Lessor must receive the same at least 6 
(six)  but not more than   twelve (12)
months prior to the date that the option period would commence, time being of the essence. If proper 
notification of the exercise of an option is not given and/or received, such option shall automatically expire. Options (if there are more than one) may only be 
exercised consecutively.
(ii)
The provisions of paragraph 39, including those relating to Lessee's Default set forth in paragraph 39.4 of this Lease, are conditions of this Option.
(iii)
Except for the provisions of this Lease granting an option or options to extend the term, all of the terms and conditions of this Lease except where 
specifically modified by this option shall apply.
(iv)
This Option is personal to the original Lessee, and cannot be assigned or exercised by anyone other than said original Lessee and only while the original 
Lessee is in full possession of the Premises and without the intention of thereafter assigning or subletting.
(v)
The monthly rent for each month of the option period shall be calculated as follows, using the method(s) indicated below: 
(Check Method(s) to be Used and Fill in Appropriately)
 I.
Cost of Living Adjustment(s) (COLA)
a.
On (Fill in COLA Dates): November 1, 2028, and each subsequent annual anniversary of the 
extended lease term the Base Rent shall be adjusted by the change, if any, from the Base Month specified below, in the Consumer Price Index of the
Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor for (select one):
CPI W (Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers) or
CPI U (All Urban 
Consumers), for (Fill in Urban Area):     San Francisco - Oakland - Hayward .  All Items (1982-1984 = 100), herein referred to as "CPI".
b.
The monthly Base Rent payable in accordance with paragraph A.I.a. of this Addendum shall be calculated as follows: the Base Rent set forth in paragraph
1.5 of the attached Lease, shall be multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which shall be the CPI of the calendar month 2 months prior to the month(s) specified in 
paragraph A.I.a. above during which the adjustment is to take effect, and the denominator of which shall be the CPI of the calendar month which is 2 months prior to
(select one):
the first month of the term of this Lease as set forth in paragraph 1.3 ("Base Month") or
(Fill in Other "Base Month"): 
.  The sum 
so calculated shall constitute the new monthly Base Rent hereunder, but in no event, shall any such new monthly Base Rent be less than the Base Rent payable for the 
month immediately preceding the rent adjustment.
c.
In the event the compilation and/or publication of the CPI shall be transferred to any other governmental department or bureau or agency or shall be 
discontinued, then the index most nearly the same as the CPI shall be used to make such calculation. In the event that the Parties cannot agree on such alternative 
index, then the matter shall be submitted for decision to the American Arbitration Association in accordance with the then rules of said Association and the decision 
of the arbitrators shall be binding upon the parties. The cost of said Arbitration shall be paid equally by the Parties.
II.
Market Rental Value Adjustment(s) (MRV)
a.
On (Fill in MRV Adjustment Date(s))
the Base Rent shall be adjusted to the "Market Rental Value" of the property as follows:
1)
Four months prior to each Market Rental Value Adjustment Date described above, the Parties shall attempt to agree upon what the new MRV will be 
on the adjustment date. If agreement cannot be reached, within thirty days, then:
(a)
Lessor and Lessee shall immediately appoint a mutually acceptable appraiser or broker to establish the new MRV within the next 30 days. Any 
associated costs will be split equally between the Parties, or
(b)
Both Lessor and Lessee shall each immediately make a reasonable determination of the MRV and submit such determination, in writing, to
156 of 460

--- page 157 ---
INITIALS
© 2017 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
OE-6.02, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 2 of 2
arbitration in accordance with the following provisions:
(i)
Within 15 days thereafter, Lessor and Lessee shall each select an independent third party
appraiser or
broker ("Consultant" - 
check one) of their choice to act as an arbitrator (Note: the parties may not select either of the Brokers that was involved in negotiating the Lease). The two 
arbitrators so appointed shall immediately select a third mutually acceptable Consultant to act as a third arbitrator.
(ii)
The 3 arbitrators shall within 30 days of the appointment of the third arbitrator reach a decision as to what the actual MRV for the 
Premises is, and whether Lessor's or Lessee's submitted MRV is the closest thereto. The decision of a majority of the arbitrators shall be binding on the Parties. The 
submitted MRV which is determined to be the closest to the actual MRV shall thereafter be used by the Parties.
(iii)
If either of the Parties fails to appoint an arbitrator within the specified 15 days, the arbitrator timely appointed by one of them shall reach 
a decision on his or her own, and said decision shall be binding on the Parties.
(iv)
The entire cost of such arbitration shall be paid by the party whose submitted MRV is not selected, ie. the one that is NOT the closest to
the actual MRV.
2)
When determining MRV, the Lessor, Lessee and Consultants shall consider the terms of comparable market transactions which shall include, but not 
be limited to, rent, rental adjustments, abated rent, lease term and financial condition of tenants.
3)
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the new Base Rent shall not be less than the rent payable for the month immediately preceding the rent adjustment.
b.
Upon the establishment of each New Market Rental Value:
1)
the new MRV will become the new "Base Rent" for the purpose of calculating any further Adjustments, and
2)
the first month of each Market Rental Value term shall become the new "Base Month" for the purpose of calculating any further Adjustments.
III.
Fixed Rental Adjustment(s) (FRA)
The Base Rent shall be increased to the following amounts on the dates set forth below:
On (Fill in FRA Adjustment Date(s)):
The New Base Rent shall be:
IV.
Initial Term Adjustments
The formula used to calculate adjustments to the Base Rent during the original Term of the Lease shall continue to be used during the extended term.
B.
NOTICE:
Unless specified otherwise herein, notice of any rental adjustments, other than Fixed Rental Adjustments, shall be made as specified in paragraph 23 of the Lease.
AIR CRE * https://www.aircre.com * 213-687-8777 * contracts@aircre.com  
NOTICE: No part of these works may be reproduced in any form without permission in writing.
157 of 460

--- page 158 ---
INITIALS
© 2017 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
GR-3.22, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 1 of 2
GUARANTY OF LEASE
WHEREAS,     CITY OF SAN MATEO , hereinafter "Lessor", and     COLD STONE CREAMERY LEASING COMPANY, INC. ,
hereinafter "Lessee", are about to execute a document entitled "Lease" dated November 1, 2023 concerning the premises commonly known as (street 
address, city, state, zip)     375 Second Avenue, San Mateo, CA
94401 wherein Lessor will lease the premises to Lessee,  and
WHEREAS,
         hereinafter "Guarantors" have a financial interest in Lessee, and
WHEREAS, Lessor would not execute the Lease if Guarantors did not execute and deliver to Lessor this Guaranty of Lease.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the execution of said Lease by Lessor and as a material inducement to Lessor to execute said Lease, Guarantors hereby 
jointly, severally, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantee the prompt payment by Lessee of all rents and all other sums payable by Lessee under said Lease and the 
faithful and prompt performance by Lessee of each and every one of the terms, conditions and covenants of said Lease to be kept and performed by Lessee.
It is specifically agreed by Lessor and Guarantors that: (i) the terms of the foregoing Lease may be modified by agreement between Lessor and Lessee, or by a 
course of conduct, and (ii) said Lease may be assigned by Lessor or any assignee of Lessor without the consent of or notice to Guarantors and that this Guaranty shall 
guarantee the performance of said Lease as so modified.
This Guaranty shall not be released, modified or affected by the failure or delay on the part of Lessor to enforce any of the rights or remedies of the Lessor under 
said Lease.
No notice of default by Lessee under the Lease need be given by Lessor to Guarantors, it being specifically agreed that the guarantee of the undersigned is a 
continuing guarantee under which Lessor may proceed immediately against Lessee and/or against Guarantors following any breach or default by Lessee or for the 
enforcement of any rights which Lessor may have as against Lessee under the terms of the Lease or at law or in equity.
Lessor shall have the right to proceed against Guarantors following any breach or default by Lessee under the Lease without first proceeding against Lessee and 
without previous notice to or demand upon either Lessee or Guarantors.
Guarantors hereby waive (a) notice of acceptance of this Guaranty. (b) demand of payment, presentation and protest, (c) all right to assert or plead any statute 
of limitations relating to this Guaranty or the Lease, (d) any right to require the Lessor to proceed against the Lessee or any other Guarantor or any other person or 
entity liable to Lessor, (e) any right to require Lessor to apply to any default any security deposit or other security it may hold under the Lease, (f) any right to require 
Lessor to proceed under any other remedy Lessor may have before proceeding against Guarantors, (g) any right of subrogation that Guarantors may have against 
Lessee.
Guarantors do hereby subordinate all existing or future indebtedness of Lessee to Guarantors to the obligations owed to Lessor under the Lease and this 
Guaranty.
If a Guarantor is married, such Guarantor expressly agrees that recourse may be had against his or her separate property for all of the obligations hereunder.
The obligations of Lessee under the Lease to execute and deliver estoppel statements and financial statements, as therein provided, shall be deemed to also 
require the Guarantors to provide estoppel statements and financial statements to Lessor. The failure of the Guarantors to provide the same to Lessor shall constitute 
a default under the Lease.
The term "Lessor" refers to and means the Lessor named in the Lease and also Lessor's successors and assigns. So long as Lessor's interest in the Lease, the 
leased premises or the rents, issues and profits therefrom, are subject to any mortgage or deed of trust or assignment for security, no acquisition by Guarantors of the 
Lessor's interest shall affect the continuing obligation of Guarantors under this Guaranty which shall nevertheless continue in full force and effect for the benefit of the 
mortgagee, beneficiary, trustee or assignee under such mortgage, deed of trust or assignment and their successors and assigns.
The term "Lessee" refers to and means the Lessee named in the Lease and also Lessee's successors and assigns.
Any recovery by Lessor from any other guarantor or insurer shall first be credited to the portion of Lessee's indebtedness to Lessor which exceeds the maximum 
liability of Guarantors under this Guaranty.
No provision of this Guaranty or right of the Lessor can be waived, nor can the Guarantors be released from their obligations except in writing signed by the 
Lessor.
Any litigation concerning this Guaranty shall be initiated in a state court of competent jurisdiction in the county in which the leased premises are located and the 
Guarantors consent to the jurisdiction of such court. This Guaranty shall be governed by the laws of the State in which the leased premises are located and for the 
purposes of any rules regarding conflicts of law the parties shall be treated as if they were all residents or domiciles of such State.
In the event any action be brought by said Lessor against Guarantors hereunder to enforce the obligation of Guarantors hereunder, the unsuccessful party in 
such action shall pay to the prevailing party therein a reasonable attorney's fee. The attorney's fee award shall not be computed in accordance with any court fee 
schedule, but shall be such as to full reimburse all attorneys' fees reasonably incurred.
If any Guarantor is a corporation, partnership, or limited liability company, each individual executing this Guaranty on said entity's behalf represents and 
warrants that he or she is duly authorized to execute this Guaranty on behalf of such entity. Signatures to this Guaranty accomplished by means of electronic 
signature or similar technology shall be legal and binding.
If this Form has been filled in, it has been prepared for submission to your attorney for his approval.      No representation or recommendation is made BY AIR CRE,
158 of 460

--- page 159 ---
INITIALS
© 2017 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
GR-3.22, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
Last Edited: 10/10/2023 5:40 PM
Page 2 of 2
the real estate broker or its agents or employees as to the legal sufficiency, legal effect, or tax consequences of this Form or the transaction relating thereto.
GUARANTORS
Executed At:   
On:   
By:
Name Printed:   
Title:   
Address:   
By:
Name Printed:   
Title:   
Address:   
AIR CRE * https://www.aircre.com * 213-687-8777 * contracts@aircre.com  
NOTICE: No part of these works may be reproduced in any form without permission in writing.
159 of 460

--- page 160 ---
INITIALS
© 2017 AIR CRE.  All Rights Reserved.
OFGRR-2.02, Revised 10-22-2020
INITIALS
RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR
STANDARD INDUSTRIAL/COMMERCIAL MULTI-TENANT LEASE - NET
Date:
November 1, 2023
By and Between
Lessor:
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Lessee:
COLD STONE CREAMERY LEASING COMPANY, INC.
Property Address:
375 Second Avenue, San Mateo, CA
94401
(street address, city, state, zip)
GENERAL  RULES
1.
Lessee shall not suffer or permit the obstruction of any Common Areas, including driveways, walkways and stairways.
2.
Lessor reserves the right to refuse access to any persons Lessor in good faith judges to be a threat to the safety and reputation of the Project and its occupants.
3.
Lessee shall not make or permit any noise or odors that annoy or interfere with other lessees or persons having business within the Project.
4.
Lessee shall not keep animals or birds within the Project, and shall not bring bicycles, motorcycles or other vehicles into areas not designated as authorized for 
same.
5.
Lessee shall not make, suffer or permit litter except in appropriate receptacles for that purpose.
6.
Lessee shall not alter any lock or install new or additional locks or bolts.
7.
Lessee shall be responsible for the inappropriate use of any toilet rooms, plumbing or other utilities. No foreign substances of any kind are to be inserted therein.
8.
Lessee shall not deface the walls, partitions or other surfaces of the Premises or Project.
9.
Lessee shall not suffer or permit anything in or around the Premises or Building that causes excessive vibration or floor loading in any part of the Project.
10.
Furniture, significant freight and equipment shall be moved into or out of the building only with the Lessor's knowledge and consent, and subject to such 
reasonable limitations, techniques and timing, as may be designated by Lessor. Lessee shall be responsible for any damage to the Office Building Project arising from 
any such activity.
11.
Lessee   shall   not   employ   any   service   or   contractor   for   services   or   work   to   be   performed   in   the   Building,   except   as   approved   by   Lessor. 
12.   Lessee shall return all keys at the termination of its tenancy and shall be responsible for the cost of replacing any keys that are lost.
13.
No Lessee, employee or invitee shall go upon the roof of the Building.
14.
Lessee shall not suffer or permit smoking or carrying of lighted cigars or cigarettes in areas reasonably designated by Lessor or by applicable governmental 
agencies as non-smoking areas.
15.
Lessee shall not use any method of heating or air conditioning other than as provided by Lessor.
16.
Lessee shall not install, maintain or operate any vending machines upon the Premises without Lessor's written consent.
17.
The Premises shall not be used for lodging or manufacturing, 
18.
Lessee shall comply with all safety, fire protection and evacuation regulations established by Lessor or any applicable governmental agency.
19.
Lessor reserves the right to waive any one of these rules or regulations, and/or as to any particular Lessee, and any such waiver shall not constitute a waiver of 
any other rule or regulation or any subsequent application thereof to such Lessee.
20.
Lessee assumes all risks from theft or vandalism and agrees to keep its Premises locked as may be required.
21.
Lessor reserves the right to make such other reasonable rules and regulations as it may from time to time deem necessary for the appropriate operation and 
safety of the Project and its occupants. Lessee agrees to abide by these and such rules and regulations.
PARKING RULES
1.
Parking areas shall be used only for parking by vehicles no longer than full size, passenger automobiles herein called "Permitted Size Vehicles." Vehicles other 
than Permitted Size Vehicles are herein referred to as "Oversized Vehicles."
2.
Lessee shall not permit or allow any vehicles that belong to or are controlled by Lessee or Lessee's employees, suppliers, shippers, customers, or invitees to be 
loaded, unloaded, or parked in areas other than those designated by Lessor for such activities.
3.
Parking stickers or identification devices shall be the property of Lessor and be returned to Lessor by the holder thereof upon termination of the holder's parking 
privileges. Lessee will pay such replacement charge as is reasonably established by Lessor for the loss of such devices.
4.
Lessor reserves the right to refuse the sale of monthly identification devices to any person or entity that willfully refuses to comply with the applicable rules, 
regulations, laws and/or agreements.
5.
Users of the parking area will obey all posted signs and park only in the areas designated for vehicle parking.
6.
Unless otherwise instructed, every person using the parking area is required to park and lock his own vehicle. Lessor will not be responsible for any damage to 
vehicles, injury to persons or loss of property, all of which risks are assumed by the party using the parking area.
7.
Validation, if established, will be permissible only by such method or methods as Lessor and/or its licensee may establish at rates generally applicable to visitor 
parking.
8.
The maintenance, washing, waxing or cleaning of vehicles in the parking structure or Common Areas is prohibited.
9.
Lessee shall be responsible for seeing that all of its employees, agents and invitees comply with the applicable parking rules, regulations, laws and agreements.
10. Lessor reserves the right to modify these rules and/or adopt such other reasonable and non-discriminatory rules and regulations as it may deem necessary for 
the proper operation of the parking area.
11.
Such parking use as is herein provided is intended merely as a license only and no bailment is intended or shall be created hereby.
160 of 460

--- page 161 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 26-4662
File ID: 23-7865
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 6, 2023 
SUBJECT:
On-Call Public Works Engineering Support Services – Agreements
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve individual on-call professional engineering support services agreements through June 30, 2026, with up to one 
optional one-year extension, with: BKF Engineers in an amount not to exceed $400,000; CSG Consultants, Inc. in an 
amount not to exceed $400,000; DKS Associates in an amount not to exceed $500,000; Fehr & Peers in an amount not to 
exceed $500,000; Krupka Consulting in an amount not to exceed $300,000; and W-Trans in an amount not to exceed 
$500,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreements in substantially the form presented and 
execute any future term extensions or amendments that do not change the not to exceed amount of the agreements. 
BACKGROUND:
The Public Works Department (“PW”) provides specialized review services within the Transportation Division during the 
Planning Entitlement review and Building Permit review processes. Currently, these services are provided by staff. The City 
is required to abide by State-required deadlines for these review processes; failure to meet these deadlines may result in 
the invocation of the Permit Streamlining Act for Planning Entitlements or certain building permits being deemed 
approved, such as Accessory Dwelling Units.
Due to the high volume of complex development the City is experiencing and limited staff availability, those services have 
been difficult to provide in a timely manner to meet required deadlines. To meet the needed review timelines, PW is 
proposing transitioning to consultant reviewers in supplementing staff efforts and thereby increase the Division’s capacity 
in providing these specialized technical review services.
PW issued a request for qualifications (“RFQ”) in June 2023 to solicit multiple firms capable of providing specialized review 
services on an on-call basis. The RFQ identified three (3) areas where PW was seeking specialized support services and 
allowed interested firms to submit statements of qualifications for any or all of those identified areas. The three (3) areas 
identified were: Transportation Planning, Traffic Engineering, and C.3 Stormwater Management.
In total, PW staff received responses from nine (9) firms and evaluated those submissions based on the firms’ experience 
in the area, the proposed consultant staff, and the pricing structure. Ultimately, PW staff utilized those criteria and follow-
up interviews to identify which firms to propose Council award on-call professional engineering support services 
agreements. The chosen firms together cover all three areas of services needed. The following table demonstrates each 
firm and their  respective service areas and proposed not-to-exceed award amounts :
161 of 460

--- page 162 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
SERVICE AREA(S)
AWARD AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED
BKF Engineers
C.3 Stormwater
$400,000
CSG Consultants
C.3 Stormwater
$400,000
DKS Associates
Transportation Planning & Traffic Engineering
$500,000
Fehr & Peers
Transportation Planning & Traffic Engineering
$500,000
Krupka Consulting
Transportation Planning & Traffic Engineering
$300,000
W-Trans
Transportation Planning & Traffic Engineering
$500,000
These firms will each enter into separate agreements with the City to provide services in each identified area for which 
they were deemed qualified. The term of these agreements will be for approximately 3-year terms ending on June 30, 
2026 with the option to extend an additional year pending a performance review by staff. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Each consultant will be issued a blanket purchase order in an amount not to exceed the fees listed above. Historical costs 
associated with these services as provided by staff amounted to approximately $100,000 per fiscal year for C.3 stormwater 
review and $300,000 per fiscal year for transportation planning and traffic engineering. The support services provided by 
these consultant firms will be charged as they are incurred to planning application trust accounts, which are funded by the 
project developer.   
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The award of these professional services agreements is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement with BKF Engineers
Att 2 – Agreement with CSG Consultants
Att 3 – Agreement with DKS Associates
Att 4 – Agreement with Fehr & Peers
Att 5 – Agreement with Krupka Consulting
Att 6 – Agreement with W-Trans
STAFF CONTACT
Jason Hallare, Senior Engineer
jhallare@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7316
162 of 460

--- page 163 ---
Professional Services 
Page 1 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
AGREEMENT WITH BKF ENGINEERS 
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR  
C3 STORMWATER ON-CALL SUPPORT SERVICES 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and BKF Engineers, a corporation, (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 255 Shoreline Drive, 
Suite 200, Redwood City, CA 94065. 
RECITALS: 
A. CITY desires certain C3 Stormwater On-call Support services hereinafter described.
B. CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these C3 Stormwater On-call Support
services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT 
has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT. 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
163 of 460

--- page 164 ---
Professional Services 
Page 2 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work. 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence upon execution of the 
Agreement and be completed on June 30, 2026, with up to one (1) optional one-year extension by 
the CITY.
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount 
not to exceed $400,000.00, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and 
incorporated by reference. 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation. 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not. 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
164 of 460

--- page 165 ---
Professional Services 
Page 3 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
Indemnity for Design Professional Services. CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all 
claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s negligence, recklessness or 
willful misconduct in the performance of its design professional services under this Agreement. To the 
maximum extent permitted by law and Civil Code section 2782.8, CONSULTANT agrees to defend CITY, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.  
Indemnity for Activities Other Than Design Professional Services. CONSULTANT agrees to hold 
harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and 
against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s 
performance of non-design professional services under this Agreement, except for those claims arising 
out of CITY’s sole negligence or willful misconduct.  CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.  
The CONSULTANT’S duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this 
Agreement. 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement. 
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
165 of 460

--- page 166 ---
Professional Services 
Page 4 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation. 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
166 of 460

--- page 167 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Jason Hallare, Senior Engineer 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
BKF Engineers 
Attn:  James Dallosta 
255 Shoreline Drive, Suite 200 
Redwood City, CA 94065 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
167 of 460

--- page 168 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
 
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party. 
 
 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
168 of 460

--- page 169 ---
Professional Services 
Page 7 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and BKF ENGINEERS have executed this Agreement 
the day and year first above written. 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
Brad Underwood 
Interim Director of Public Works 
Date 
Greg Hurd  
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Exhibit B: 
Exhibit C: 
Scope of Services 
Fee Schedule
Insurance Requirements 
President and CEO
169 of 460

--- page 170 ---
Professional Services 
Page 8 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT A 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
The scope of work for this C3 Stormwater On-Call contract will include: 

Review and evaluation of project plans for compliance with MRP Permit Order No. R2-
2022-0018 (MRP3.0) and the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention
Program C.3 Regulated Project Guide.

Review projects for stormwater management and treatment which generally include:
o
Stormwater management plans
o
City and County C3-C6 checklists
o
Project design approach narratives
o
Infeasibility memos
o
Stormwater drainage area exhibits
o
Modeling results
o
BMP sizing calculations
o
Design-level construction documents (site, grading, utility, treatment facilities)
o
Stormwater Treatment Measure maintenance information
o
Planting designs and soil/mulch specifications
o
Engineer’s opinions of probable costs (engineer’s estimate)

Preparation of written comments and recommendations regarding the plans and
submittal packages, including identification of deficiencies and suggestions for
improvement.

Attendance of meetings with project proponents and other stakeholders as necessary to
discuss plan review findings and recommendations.  Meetings may include planning
commission during evening hours.

Coordination with our staff and other agencies to ensure that all plan review
requirements are met.

Coordinate submitted plans with other existing planning documents and studies.

Management of on-going reviews, budget tracking, and invoicing.
170 of 460

--- page 171 ---
FEE SCHEDULE
City of San Mateo | On-Call Plan Review Services
BKF ENGINEERS
 18
BKF ENGINEERS
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES RATE SCHEDULE 
EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2023
CLASSIFICATION
 HOURLY RATE
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Principal
$288.00
Senior Associate Principal
$268.00
Associate Principal
$260.00
Senior Project Manager | Senior Technical Manager
$253.00
Project Manager | Technical Manager
$247.00
Engineering Manager | Surveying Manager | Planning Manager
$228.00
TECHNICAL STAFF
Senior Project Engineer | Senior Project Surveyor | Senior Project Planner 
$212.00
Project Engineer | Project Surveyor | Project Planner 
$186.00
Design Engineer | Staff Surveyor | Staff Planner 
$162.00
BIM Specialist I, II, III 
$162.00 - $186.00 - $212.00
Technician I, II, III, IV 
$154.00 - $164.00 - $180.00 - $194.00
Drafter I, II, III, IV
$121.00 - $133.00 - $143.00 - $159.00
Engineering Assistant | Surveying Assistant | Planning Assistant
$101.00
FIELD SURVEYING
Survey Party Chief
$212.00
Instrument Person
$182.00
Survey Chainperson
$136.00
Utility Locator I, II, III, IV
$110.00 - $156.00 - $187.00 - $213.00
Apprentice I, II, III, IV
$83.00 - $112.00 - $124.00 - $132.00
CONSTRUCTION ADMINISTRATION
Senior Consultant
$277.00
Senior Construction Administrator
$241.00
Resident Engineer
$179.00
Field Engineer I, II, III
$162.00 - $186.00 - $212.00
FUNDING & GRANT MANAGEMENT
Director of Funding Strategies
$198.00
Funding Strategies Manager
$181.00
Funding/Research Analyst I, II, III, IV
$124.00 - $144.00 - $153.00 - $168.00
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
Project Coordinator
$135.00
Senior Project Assistant
$117.00
Project Assistant
$103.00
Clerical | Administrative Assistant
$87.00
Expert witness rates are available upon request.
Subject to the terms of a services agreement:
•
Charges for outside services, equipment, materials, and facilities not furnished directly by BKF Engineers will be
billed as reimbursable expenses at cost plus 10%. Such charges may include, but shall not be limited to: printing
and reproduction services; shipping, delivery, and courier charges; subconsultant fees and expenses; agency fees;
insurance; transportation on public carriers; meals and lodging; and consumable materials.
•
Allowable mileage will be charged at the prevailing IRS rate per mile.
•
Monthly invoices are due within 30 days from invoice date. Interest will be charged at 1.5% per month on past due
accounts.
•
The rates shown are subject to periodic increases, including January 1st of each year.
EXHIBIT B 
171 of 460

--- page 172 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no 
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.  
 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate 
 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
172 of 460

--- page 173 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
173 of 460

--- page 174 ---
Professional Services 
Page 1 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
AGREEMENT WITH CSG CONSULTANTS 
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR  
C3 STORMWATER ON-CALL SUPPORT SERVICES 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and CSG Consultants, a corporation, (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 550 Pilgrim Drive, 
Foster City, CA 94404. 
RECITALS: 
A. CITY desires certain C3 stormwater on-call support services hereinafter described.
B. CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these C3 stormwater on-call support
services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT 
has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT. 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
174 of 460

--- page 175 ---
Professional Services 
Page 2 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work. 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence upon execution of the 
Agreement and be completed on June 30, 2026, with up to one (1) optional one-year extension by 
the CITY.
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount 
not to exceed $400,000.00, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and 
incorporated by reference. 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation. 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not. 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
175 of 460

--- page 176 ---
Professional Services 
Page 3 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
Indemnity for Design Professional Services. CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all 
claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s negligence, recklessness or 
willful misconduct in the performance of its design professional services under this Agreement. To the 
maximum extent permitted by law and Civil Code section 2782.8, CONSULTANT agrees to defend CITY, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.  
Indemnity for Activities Other Than Design Professional Services. CONSULTANT agrees to hold 
harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and 
against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s 
performance of non-design professional services under this Agreement, except for those claims arising 
out of CITY’s sole negligence or willful misconduct.  CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.  
The CONSULTANT’S duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this 
Agreement. 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement. 
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
176 of 460

--- page 177 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
177 of 460

--- page 178 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Jason Hallare, Senior Engineer 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
CSG Consultants 
Attn:  Nourdin Khayata 
550 Pilgrim Drive 
Foster City, CA 94404 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
178 of 460

--- page 179 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
 
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party. 
 
 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
179 of 460

--- page 180 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and CSG Consultants have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Brad Underwood 
Interim Director of Public Works 
Date 
 
Cyrus Kianpour 
President 
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
Nourdin Khayata 
Secretary 
 
Date 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Fee Rates 
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 
2) Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below. 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
180 of 460

--- page 181 ---
Professional Services 
Page 8 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT A 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
The scope of work for this C3 Stormwater On-Call contract will include: 

Review and evaluation of project plans for compliance with MRP Permit Order No. R2-
2022-0018 (MRP3.0) and the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention
Program C.3 Regulated Project Guide.

Review projects for stormwater management and treatment which generally include:
o
Stormwater management plans
o
City and County C3-C6 checklists
o
Project design approach narratives
o
Infeasibility memos
o
Stormwater drainage area exhibits
o
Modeling results
o
BMP sizing calculations
o
Design-level construction documents (site, grading, utility, treatment facilities)
o
Stormwater Treatment Measure maintenance information
o
Planting designs and soil/mulch specifications
o
Engineer’s opinions of probable costs (engineer’s estimate)

Preparation of written comments and recommendations regarding the plans and
submittal packages, including identification of deficiencies and suggestions for
improvement.

Attendance of meetings with project proponents and other stakeholders as necessary to
discuss plan review findings and recommendations.  Meetings may include planning
commission during evening hours.

Coordination with our staff and other agencies to ensure that all plan review
requirements are met.

Coordinate submitted plans with other existing planning documents and studies.

Management of on-going reviews, budget tracking, and invoicing.
181 of 460

--- page 182 ---
2023 - Engineering Department Hourly Rates 
Bay Area Region 
CSG’s services are billed on a time-and-materials basis according to our standard rates, shown below. 
Professional Engineering Services 
2023 
Hourly Rate 
Engineering Trainee 
$75 
Administrative Assistant 
$85 
Analyst 
$140 
Engineering Designer/CASp Inspection & Consultation 
$150 
Construction Inspector 
$165 
Senior Analyst 
$165 
Assistant Resident Engineer 
$180 
Assistant Engineer 
$155 
Associate Engineer 
$185 
Senior Construction Inspector 
$175 
Senior Engineer 
$210 
Senior Land Surveyor 
$210 
Resident Engineer 
$220 
Structure Representative 
$220 
Senior Structural Engineer 
$235 
Senior Project Manager 
$235 
Principal Engineer 
$250 
Senior Principal Engineer 
$270 
Two-Person Survey Crew 
$350 
Sustainability Program Management Services 
Hourly Rate 
Sustainability Program Analyst 
$145 
Sustainability Program Senior Analyst 
$170 
Sustainability Program Manager 
$200 
All hourly rates include overhead costs including, but not limited to, salaries, benefits, Workers Compensation 
Insurance, travel and office expenses. CSG will coordinate the pickup and return of plans to and from CSG offices. 
Overtime work will be billed at 1.5x the hourly rates indicated in the table above. On July 1 of each year following 
the contract start year, CSG will initiate a rate increase based on change in CPI for the applicable region. CSG will 
mail/email an invoice every month for services rendered during the previous month. 
EXHIBIT B 
FEE RATES 
182 of 460

--- page 183 ---
Professional Services 
Page 10 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT C 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal &
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily
injury or disease.
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
183 of 460

--- page 184 ---
Professional Services 
Page 11 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance. 
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.   
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
184 of 460

--- page 185 ---
Professional Services 
Page 1 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
AGREEMENT WITH DKS ASSOCIATES 
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR  
TRANSPORTATION PLANNING AND TRAFFIC ENGINEERING ON-CALL SUPPORT SERVICES 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and DKS Associates, a corporation, (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 1970 Broadway, Suite 
740, Oakland, CA 94612. 
RECITALS: 
A. CITY desires certain transportation planning and traffic engineering on-call support
services hereinafter described. 
B. CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these transportation planning and
traffic engineering on-call support services by reason of its qualifications and experience for 
performing such services and CONSULTANT has offered to provide the required services on the terms 
and in the manner set forth herein. 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT. 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
185 of 460

--- page 186 ---
Professional Services 
Page 2 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work. 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence upon execution of the 
Agreement and be completed on June 30, 2026, with up to one (1) optional one-year extension by 
the CITY.
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount 
not to exceed $500,000.00, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and 
incorporated by reference. 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation. 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not. 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
186 of 460

--- page 187 ---
Professional Services 
Page 3 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
Indemnity for Design Professional Services. CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all 
claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s negligence, recklessness or 
willful misconduct in the performance of its design professional services under this Agreement. To the 
maximum extent permitted by law and Civil Code section 2782.8, CONSULTANT agrees to defend CITY, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.  
Indemnity for Activities Other Than Design Professional Services. CONSULTANT agrees to hold 
harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and 
against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s 
performance of non-design professional services under this Agreement, except for those claims arising 
out of CITY’s sole negligence or willful misconduct.  CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.  
The CONSULTANT’S duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this 
Agreement. 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement. 
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
187 of 460

--- page 188 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
188 of 460

--- page 189 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Jason Hallare, Senior Engineer 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
DKS Associates 
Attn:  David Mahama 
1970 Broadway, Suite 740,  
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
189 of 460

--- page 190 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
 
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party. 
 
 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
190 of 460

--- page 191 ---
Professional Services 
Page 7 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and DKS ASSOCIATES have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written. 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
Brad Underwood 
Interim Director of Public Works 
Date 
Richard Hutchinson 
Vice President 
Date 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 
2) Vice President plus an additional corporate
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below. 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above) 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
<Insert Name> 
<Insert Title> 
Date 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Exhibit B: 
Exhibit C: 
Scope of Services 
Fee Schedule 
Insurance Requirements 
191 of 460

--- page 192 ---
Professional Services 
Page 8 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT A 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
The scope of work for this Transportation and Traffic Engineering contract will include: 

Review and evaluation of project transportation planning and traffic engineering
documents for compliance with City Plans and the CA MUTCD with consideration to
other related guidelines such as NACTO.

Review projects for transportation planning and traffic engineering which generally
include:
o
Traffic impact studies
o
Transportation demand management plans
o
Trip reduction goals
o
Parking operations
o
Transit access
o
Pedestrian and bicycle access and safety
o
Access management plans
o
Traffic signal designs
o
Traffic operations
o
Traffic striping
o
MUTCD conformance
o
Traffic control plans
o
Site access and circulation

Preparation of written comments and recommendations regarding the plans and
submittal packages, including identification of deficiencies and suggestions for
improvement.

Attendance of meetings with project proponents and other stakeholders as necessary to
discuss plan review findings and recommendations.  Meetings may include planning
commission during evening hours.

Coordination with our staff and other agencies to ensure that all plan review
requirements are met.

Coordinate submitted plans with other existing planning documents and studies.

Management of on-going reviews, budget tracking, and invoicing.
192 of 460

--- page 193 ---
25
SAN MATEO ON-CALL TRAFFIC ENGINEERING & TRANSPORTATION PLANNING
FEE SCHEDULE
Fee Schedule
Effective January 1, 2023 through December 31, 2023
ENGINEERS and PLANNERS
TECHNICIANS and SUPPORT STAFF
Grade
Hourly Rate
Grade
Hourly Rate
Tech Level
Hourly Rate
Grade5
75.00
Grade38
240.00
TechLevelG
65.00
Grade6
80.00
Grade39
245.00
TechLevelH
70.00
Grade7
85.00
Grade40
250.00
TechLevelI
75.00
Grade8
90.00
Grade41
255.00
TechLevelJ
80.00
Grade9
95.00
Grade42
260.00
TechLevelK
85.00
Grade10
100.00
Grade43
265.00
TechLevelL
90.00
Grade11
105.00
Grade44
270.00
TechLevelM
95.00
Grade12
110.00
Grade45
275.00
TechLevelN
100.00
Grade13
115.00
Grade46
280.00
TechLevelO
105.00
Grade14
120.00
Grade47
285.00
TechLevelP
110.00
Grade15
125.00
Grade48
290.00
TechLevelQ
115.00
Grade16
130.00
Grade49
295.00
TechLevelR
120.00
Grade17
135.00
Grade50
300.00
TechLevelS
125.00
Grade18
140.00
Grade51
305.00
TechLevelT
130.00
Grade19
145.00
Grade52
310.00
TechLevelU
135.00
Grade20
150.00
Grade53
315.00
TechLevelV
140.00
Grade21
155.00
Grade54
320.00
TechLevelW
145.00
Grade22
160.00
Grade55
325.00
TechLevelX
150.00
Grade23
165.00
Grade56
330.00
TechLevelY
155.00
Grade24
170.00
Grade57
335.00
TechLevelZ
160.00
Grade25
175.00
Grade58
340.00
TechLevelAA
165.00
Grade26
180.00
Grade59
345.00
TechLevelAB
170.00
Grade27
185.00
Grade60
350.00
TechLevelAC
175.00
Grade28
190.00
Grade61
355.00
TechLevelAD
180.00
Grade29
195.00
Grade62
360.00
TechLevelAE
185.00
Grade30
200.00
Grade63
365.00
TechLevelAF
190.00
Grade31
205.00
Grade64
370.00
TechLevelAG
195.00
Grade32
210.00
Grade65
375.00
TechLevelAH
200.00
Grade33
215.00
Grade66
380.00
TechLevelAI
205.00
Grade34
20.00
Grade67
385.00
TechLevelAJ
210.00
Grade35
225.00
Grade68
390.00
TechLevelAN
230.00
Grade36
230.00
Grade69
395.00
TechLevelAO
235.00
Grade37
235.00
Grade70
400.00
TechLevelAP
240.00
•
Project expenses will be billed at cost plus ten percent for service and handling. Project expenses include project-related
costs such as reproduction through outside services, transportation, subsistence, delivery/postage, and vendor and sub-
contractor services.
•
All invoices are due and payable within 30 days of date of invoice. Invoices outstanding over 30 days will be assessed a 11/4
percent service charge, compounded, for each 30 days outstanding beyond the initial payment period.Service charges are not
included in any agreement for maximum charges.
EXHIBIT B 
193 of 460

--- page 194 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no 
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.  
 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate 
 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
194 of 460

--- page 195 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
195 of 460

--- page 196 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
AGREEMENT WITH FEHR & PEERS 
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR  
TRANSPORTATION PLANNING AND TRAFFIC ENGINEERING ON-CALL SUPPORT SERVICES 
 
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and Fehr & Peers, a corporation, (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 345 California Street, 
Suite 450, San Francisco, CA 94104. 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
 
A.  CITY desires certain transportation planning and traffic engineering on-call support 
services hereinafter described. 
 
 
B.  CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these transportation planning and 
traffic engineering on-call support services by reason of its qualifications and experience for 
performing such services and CONSULTANT has offered to provide the required services on the terms 
and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT. 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
 
196 of 460

--- page 197 ---
Professional Services 
Page 2 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work. 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence upon execution of the 
Agreement and be completed on June 30, 2026, with up to one (1) optional one-year extension by the 
CITY. 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered, and CONSULTANT shall submit 
invoices to CITY on a monthly basis describing in reasonable and understandable detail the services 
rendered, fee charged, and expenses incurred by CONSULTANT during the previous month. 
CONSULTANT’s monthly invoices shall be paid within thirty (30) days after their receipt by CITY. In 
consideration for the full performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay 
CONSULTANT a fee in an amount not to exceed $500,000.00, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to 
this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation. 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement (“Work 
Product”), although instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether 
the project for which they are made is executed or not. Third-party content that may be used or 
incorporated in the Work Product shall not become the property of CITY. CONSULTANT shall secure all 
licenses necessary to any third-party content incorporated into CONSULTANT’s Work Product for CITY 
to utilize CONSULTANT’s services and the Work Product for their intended purposes. 
197 of 460

--- page 198 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
Indemnity for Design Professional Services. CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all 
claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s negligence, recklessness or 
willful misconduct in the performance of its design professional services under this Agreement. To the 
maximum extent permitted by law and Civil Code section 2782.8, CONSULTANT agrees to defend CITY, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.  
 
 
Indemnity for Activities Other Than Design Professional Services. CONSULTANT agrees to hold 
harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and 
against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s 
performance of non-design professional services under this Agreement, except for those claims arising 
out of CITY’s sole negligence or willful misconduct.  CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.  
 
 
The CONSULTANT’S duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this 
Agreement. 
 
 
198 of 460

--- page 199 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in 
accordance with the skill, care, and diligence ordinarily exercised by consultants providing similar 
services under similar circumstances to that of CONSULTANT under this Agreement, and CONSULTANT 
agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's work by CITY does not operate as 
a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
 
199 of 460

--- page 200 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.  
 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
200 of 460

--- page 201 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
To CITY: 
Jason Hallare, Senior Engineer 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
Fehr & Peers 
Attn:  Matt Goyne 
345 California Street, Suite 450,  
San Francisco, CA 94104 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
 
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party. 
 
 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
201 of 460

--- page 202 ---
Professional Services 
Page 7 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and FEHR & PEERS have executed this Agreement 
the day and year first above written. 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
Brad Underwood 
Interim Director of Public Works 
Date 
Chris Mitchell 
President & CEO 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Exhibit B: 
Exhibit C: 
Scope of Services 
Fee Schedule 
Insurance Requirements 
202 of 460

--- page 203 ---
Professional Services 
Page 8 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT A 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
The scope of work for this Transportation and Traffic Engineering contract will include: 

Review and evaluation of project transportation planning and traffic engineering
documents for compliance with City Plans and the CA MUTCD with consideration to
other related guidelines such as NACTO.

Review projects for transportation planning and traffic engineering which generally
include:
o
Traffic impact studies
o
Transportation demand management plans
o
Trip reduction goals
o
Parking operations
o
Transit access
o
Pedestrian and bicycle access and safety
o
Access management plans
o
Traffic signal designs
o
Traffic operations
o
Traffic striping
o
MUTCD conformance
o
Traffic control plans
o
Site access and circulation

Preparation of written comments and recommendations regarding the plans and
submittal packages, including identification of deficiencies and suggestions for
improvement.

Attendance of meetings with project proponents and other stakeholders as necessary to
discuss plan review findings and recommendations.  Meetings may include planning
commission during evening hours.

Coordination with our staff and other agencies to ensure that all plan review
requirements are met.

Coordinate submitted plans with other existing planning documents and studies.

Management of on-going reviews, budget tracking, and invoicing.
203 of 460

--- page 204 ---
On-Call Review Services 
May 22, 2023 
14 
Fee Schedule 
2023-2024 
(July 2023 through June 2024) 
Hourly Billing Rates 
Classification 
 Hourly Rate 
Principal 
$250.00 
- 
$390.00 
Senior Associate  
$205.00 
-    
$320.00 
Associate  
$175.00 
-      $290.00 
Senior Engineer/Planner  
$160.00 
- 
   $240.00 
Engineer/Planner  
$120.00 
- 
$185.00 
Senior Engineering Technician 
$150.00 
- 
$220.00 
Senior Project Accountant 
$170.00 
- 
$190.00 
Senior Project Coordinator 
$125.00 
- 
$180.00 
Project Coordinator 
$100.00 
- 
$170.00 
Technician 
$120.00 
- 
$170.00 
Intern 
$95.00 
-     $140.00 
•
Other Direct Costs / Reimbursable expenses are invoiced at cost plus 10% for handling.
•
Personal auto mileage is reimbursed at the then current IRS approved rate (65.5 cents per
mile as of Jan 2023).
•
Voice & Data Communications (Telephone, fax, computer, e-mail, etc.) are invoiced at cost
as a percentage of project labor.
Fehr & Peers reserves the right to change these rates at any time with or without advance notice. 
EXHIBIT B 
204 of 460

--- page 205 ---
Professional Services 
Page 10 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT C 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal &
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily
injury or disease.
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
205 of 460

--- page 206 ---
Professional Services 
Page 11 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
Notice of Cancellation 
Contractor shall immediately notify the City when it has notice or receives notification that any 
insurance coverage is subject to cancellation, or is in fact cancelled, lapsed, or otherwise unavailable. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance. 
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.   
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
206 of 460

--- page 207 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
AGREEMENT WITH KRUPKA CONSULTING 
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR  
TRANSPORTATION PLANNING AND TRAFFIC ENGINEERING ON-CALL SUPPORT SERVICES 
 
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and Krupka Consulting, a California Sole Proprietorship, (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 
431 Yale Drive, San Mateo, CA 94402. 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
 
A.  CITY desires certain transportation planning and traffic engineering on-call support 
services hereinafter described. 
 
 
B.  CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these transportation planning and 
traffic engineering on-call support services by reason of its qualifications and experience for 
performing such services and CONSULTANT has offered to provide the required services on the terms 
and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT. 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
 
207 of 460

--- page 208 ---
Professional Services 
Page 2 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work. 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence upon execution of the 
Agreement and be completed on June 30, 2026, with up to one (1) optional one-year extension by the 
CITY. 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount 
not to exceed $300,000.00, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and 
incorporated by reference. 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation. 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not. 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
208 of 460

--- page 209 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
Indemnity for Design Professional Services. CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all 
claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s negligence, recklessness or 
willful misconduct in the performance of its design professional services under this Agreement. To the 
maximum extent permitted by law and Civil Code section 2782.8, CONSULTANT agrees to defend CITY, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.  
 
 
Indemnity for Activities Other Than Design Professional Services. CONSULTANT agrees to hold 
harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and 
against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s 
performance of non-design professional services under this Agreement, except for those claims arising 
out of CITY’s sole negligence or willful misconduct.  CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.  
 
 
The CONSULTANT’S duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
209 of 460

--- page 210 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
210 of 460

--- page 211 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's current hourly rates for legal testimony as stated in 
Exhibit B to this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Jason Hallare, Senior Engineer 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
Krupka Consulting 
Attn:  Paul Krupka 
431 Yale Drive 
San Mateo, CA 94402 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
211 of 460

--- page 212 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
 
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party. 
 
 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
212 of 460

--- page 213 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and KRUPKA CONSULTING have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Brad Underwood 
Interim Director of Public Works 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
Paul Krupka 
Sole Proprietor 
 
 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Fee Rates 
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
213 of 460

--- page 214 ---
Professional Services 
Page 8 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT A 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
The scope of work for this Transportation and Traffic Engineering contract will include: 

Review and evaluation of project transportation planning and traffic engineering
documents for compliance with City Plans and the CA MUTCD with consideration to
other related guidelines such as NACTO.

Review projects for transportation planning and traffic engineering which generally
include:
o
Traffic impact studies
o
Transportation demand management plans
o
Trip reduction goals
o
Parking operations
o
Transit access
o
Pedestrian and bicycle access and safety
o
Access management plans
o
Traffic signal designs
o
Traffic operations
o
Traffic striping
o
MUTCD conformance
o
Traffic control plans
o
Site access and circulation

Preparation of written comments and recommendations regarding the plans and
submittal packages, including identification of deficiencies and suggestions for
improvement.

Attendance of meetings with project proponents and other stakeholders as necessary to
discuss plan review findings and recommendations.  Meetings may include planning
commission during evening hours.

Coordination with our staff and other agencies to ensure that all plan review
requirements are met.

Coordinate submitted plans with other existing planning documents and studies.

Management of on-going reviews, budget tracking, and invoicing.
214 of 460

--- page 215 ---
Professional Services 
Page 9 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT B 
FEE RATES 
Labor - The Consultant will charge fees based on time and expenses commensurate with the work 
completed.  
The Consultant’s standard hourly rate for Paul Krupka is $235.  
The Consultant’s hourly rate for legal testimony, including preparation and travel, is $470. 
Expenses - The Consultant will bill out-of-pocket expenses at cost. The following are examples: 

Travel expenses other than regular commuting, including airfares, rental vehicles, and highway
mileage in cars owned by the Consultant or personal cars at the current IRS rate

Telephone, fax, online, and telecommunications,

Postage and courier services,

Printing and reproduction,

Outsourced computer services,

Support services performed by vendors, and

Other expenses resulting from the work performed.
215 of 460

--- page 216 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no 
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.  
 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate 
 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
216 of 460

--- page 217 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
217 of 460

--- page 218 ---
Professional Services 
Page 1 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
AGREEMENT WITH W-TRANS 
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR  
TRANSPORTATION PLANNING AND TRAFFIC ENGINEERING ON-CALL SUPPORT SERVICES 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and W-Trans, a corporation, (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 414 13th Street, 5th Floor, 
Oakland, CA 94612. 
RECITALS: 
A. CITY desires certain transportation planning and traffic engineering on-call support
services hereinafter described. 
B. CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these transportation planning and
traffic engineering on-call support services by reason of its qualifications and experience for 
performing such services and CONSULTANT has offered to provide the required services on the terms 
and in the manner set forth herein. 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT. 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
218 of 460

--- page 219 ---
Professional Services 
Page 2 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work. 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence upon execution of the 
Agreement and be completed on June 30, 2026, with up to one (1) optional one-year extension by the 
CITY. 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount 
not to exceed $500,000.00, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and 
incorporated by reference. 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation. 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not. 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
219 of 460

--- page 220 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
Indemnity for Design Professional Services. CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all 
claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s negligence, recklessness or 
willful misconduct in the performance of its design professional services under this Agreement. To the 
maximum extent permitted by law and Civil Code section 2782.8, CONSULTANT agrees to defend CITY, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.  
 
 
Indemnity for Activities Other Than Design Professional Services. CONSULTANT agrees to hold 
harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and 
against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s 
performance of non-design professional services under this Agreement, except for those claims arising 
out of CITY’s sole negligence or willful misconduct.  CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.  
 
 
The CONSULTANT’S duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
220 of 460

--- page 221 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
221 of 460

--- page 222 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Jason Hallare, Senior Engineer 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
W-Trans 
Attn:  Mark Spencer 
414 13th Street, 5th Floor,  
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
222 of 460

--- page 223 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
 
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party. 
 
 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
223 of 460

--- page 224 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and W-TRANS have executed this Agreement the 
day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Brad Underwood 
Interim Director of Public Works 
 
Date 
 
Mark Spencer 
President & Senior Principal 
 
Date 
 
 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Fee Rates 
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
224 of 460

--- page 225 ---
Professional Services 
Page 8 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT A 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
The scope of work for this Transportation and Traffic Engineering contract will include: 

Review and evaluation of project transportation planning and traffic engineering
documents for compliance with City Plans and the CA MUTCD with consideration to
other related guidelines such as NACTO.

Review projects for transportation planning and traffic engineering which generally
include:
o
Traffic impact studies
o
Transportation demand management plans
o
Trip reduction goals
o
Parking operations
o
Transit access
o
Pedestrian and bicycle access and safety
o
Access management plans
o
Traffic signal designs
o
Traffic operations
o
Traffic striping
o
MUTCD conformance
o
Traffic control plans
o
Site access and circulation

Preparation of written comments and recommendations regarding the plans and
submittal packages, including identification of deficiencies and suggestions for
improvement.

Attendance of meetings with project proponents and other stakeholders as necessary to
discuss plan review findings and recommendations.  Meetings may include planning
commission during evening hours.

Coordination with our staff and other agencies to ensure that all plan review
requirements are met.

Coordinate submitted plans with other existing planning documents and studies.

Management of on-going reviews, budget tracking, and invoicing.
225 of 460

--- page 226 ---
490 Mendocino Avenue, Suite 201   SANTA ROSA, CA 95401   707.542.9500 
414 13th Street, 5th Floor   OAKLAND, CA 94612   510.444.2600 
w-trans.com 
Fee Schedule 
2023 Staff Billing Rates 
Position 
Billing Rate (per hour) 
Senior Principal 
$290 – $350 
Principal 
$225 – $290 
Senior Engineer/Planner 
$185 – $225 
Engineer/Planner 
$170 – $190 
Associate Engineer/Planner 
$150 – $170 
Assistant Engineer/Planner 
$130 – $145 
Technician/Administrative 
$115 – $140 
Intern 
$30 – $80 
Field Technician 
$30 – $75 
2023 Expense Charges 
Item
Charge
Mileage
$0.72/mile*
Services and Expenses 
10% surcharge 
These rates are valid for work performed prior to December 
31, 2023.  Work performed after January 1, 2024, and any 
subsequent year may be billed at the revised rates 
established for that year. 
* Mileage charge will be based on the IRS Standard Mileage
Rate (set at $0.655/mile effective January 1, 2023) plus 10 
percent. 
EXHIBIT B - FEE RATES 
226 of 460

--- page 227 ---
Professional Services 
Page 10 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT C 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal &
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily
injury or disease.
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
227 of 460

--- page 228 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
228 of 460

--- page 229 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  14
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2312
File ID: 23-8140
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
November 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
San Mateo Safety Management Association – Memorandum of Understanding Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the San Mateo Safety Management Association for 
a term through June 21, 2026, and to approve a supplemental budget appropriation in the amount of $80,000.
BACKGROUND:
The San Mateo Safety Management Association represents two Police Captains and six Police Lieutenants. The contract 
with this bargaining unit expired on April 15, 2023. 
Negotiations with the San Mateo Safety Management Association concluded on October 17, 2023, and the membership 
subsequently ratified the proposed changes to their Memorandum of Understanding. Consistent with the direction 
provided by the City Council, negotiators for the City and the bargaining unit have reached agreement. These agreements 
include: 
Term: The contract will be for a period of 3 years, expiring on June 21, 2026. 
Salary: The bargaining unit will receive a 4.0% salary increase effective July 9, 2026, a 3.0% increase effective June 23, 
2024, and a 3.0% salary increase effective June 22, 2025. 
Educational Incentives: Effective July 9, 2023, members who complete the California P.O.S.T. Executive Development 
Course, California POST Command College, or receive a Masters Degree from an accredited college are eligible for a 3% 
differential of base pay. 
Management Incentive Pay: Effective July 9, 2023 the City will provide a 3% differential of base bay to all members of the 
bargaining unit recognizing the supervisory responsibilities of being part of the Police Department Command staff and to 
encourage promotions. 
Other: There are language changes relating to departmental operations and housekeeping language that amend some of 
the terms and conditions of the contract. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
A supplemental budget appropriation of available fund balance in the General Fund of $80,000 for the Police Department's 
2023-24 operating budget is required to accommodate the negotiated increases. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
229 of 460

--- page 230 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
This Tentative Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve 
any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
            Exhibit A - Tentative Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Teresa Abrahamsohn, Director of Human Resources
tabrahamsohn@cityofsanmateo.org
650.522.7276
230 of 460

--- page 231 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023)
APPROVING AMENDMENTS TO THE MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE
CITY OF SAN MATEO AND SAN MATEO SAFETY MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION UNIT AND A SUPPLEMENTAL
BUDGET APPROPRIATION
WHEREAS, the amendments are related to salary, term, other pays and miscellaneous language changes
relating to departmental operations, and language clarity for the unit; and
WHEREAS, the parties have met and conferred, and have reached tentative agreement to amend the Unit’s
Memorandum of Understanding; and
WHEREAS, the Unit has ratified the Tentative Agreement; and
WHEREAS, an appropriation of additional General Funds to the Fiscal Year 2023-24 Police Department
operating budget is necessary to finance the increases.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES
that:
1. This Tentative Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
2. The amendments to the Memorandum of Understanding for the San Mateo Safety Management
Association Unit, set forth in the Tentative Agreements attached as Exhibit A, are approved and
summarized as follows:
Term: The contract will be for a period of 3 years expiring on June 21, 2023.
Salary: The bargaining unit will receive a 4.0% salary increase effective July 9, 2023, a 3.0% increase
effective June 23, 2024, and a 3.0% salary increase effective June 22, 2025.
Educational Incentives: Effective July 9, 2023, members who complete the California P.O.S.T.
Executive Development Course, California POST Command College, or receive a Master's Degree
from an accredited college are eligible for a 3% differential of base pay.
Management Incentive Pay: Effective July 9, 2023 the City will provide a 3% differential of base pay
to all members of the bargaining unit recognizing the supervisory responsibilities of being part of the
Police Department Command staff and to encourage promotions.
Other: There are language changes relating to departmental operations and housekeeping language
that amend some of the terms and conditions of the contract.
231 of 460

--- page 232 ---
3. A supplemental budget appropriation of available fund balance in the General Fund of $80,000 for
the Police Department's 2023-24 operating budget is authorized to accommodate the negotiated
increases.
232 of 460

--- page 233 ---
Exhibit A

City of San Mateo and San Mateo Safety Management Association - 2023 Negotiations

Tentative Agreement

7.1 Compensation Increases During the Term of this Agreement

Effective July 9, 2023 employees will receive a four percent (4.0%) across the board increase.
The effective date of this increase is in recognition of the pause in the negotiation process due to
the City’s change of City Manager. The union acknowledges this is an extraordinary
circumstance and not a departure from the City’s long-standing practice of adopting MOU’s with
salary effective dates the pay period following adoption or later. Effective Apri} 19-2020,

; “Hy : ; 4.0% = 1

Effective Apri t$,2021 June 23. 2024, employees will receive a three percent (3.0%) across the
board increase.

Effective Apri 17, 2022June 22. 2025, employees will receive a twe-three percent (23.0%)
across the board increase.

30.0 TERM OF MOU

This MOU shall terminate as of 11:59 p.m., Aprit-45,2023June 2 1, 2026. The existing and —
unmodified rules, regulations, resolutions or ordinances relating to wages, hours and conditions of
employment not covered in this agreement for employees in this unit shall remain unchanged for
said period unless such changes are the result of meeting and conferring as required by law.

This does not preclude the City from increasing wages and benefits during such period as deemed
warranted by the City Council.

Date:_ 7/2/30 /36 23

For the Safety Management Association For the City of San Mateo

Lagpal S Z—b DE —

233 of 460


--- page 234 ---
City of San Mateo and San Mateo Safety Management Association - 2023 Negotiations

Tentative Agreement

6.4 Educational Incentive Pay - Safety Personnel

Educational incentive pay is special compensation to employees for completing educational
courses, certificates, and degrees which enhance their ability to do their job.

8*}Effective July 9, 2023 Police Captains and Lieutenants shall qualify for an eight percent
(8%) differential of their base pay upon completion of the P.O.S.T. Management Course. The
effective date of this change is in recognition of the pause in the negotiation process due to the
City’s change of City Manager. The union acknowledges this is an extraordinary circumstance

and not a departure from the City’s long-standing practice of adopting MOU’s with
compensation effective dates the pay period following adoption or later.

A Police Captain or Police Lieutenant who completes the California P.O.S.T. Executive
Development Course (EDC), California P.O.S.T. Command College, or receives a Master’s
Degree from an accredited university or college is eligible to receive a three percent (3%)
' differential of base pay as educational incentive pay effective July 9, 2023. The effective date of
this differential is in recognition of the pause in the negotiation process due to the City’s change
of City Manager. The union acknowledges this is an extraordinary circumstance and not a
departure from the City’s long-standing practice of adopting MOU’s with compensation
effective dates the pay period following adoption or later. This differential is in addition to the
P.O.S.T. Management Course incentive.

Upon qualification, an employee shall be entitled to educational incentive pay from the first full
pay period following the date of submittal and acceptance. Educational incentive pay will be paid
on a biweekly basis.

Date:__ 70 7/30 / 26.3.3

For the Safety Management Association For the City of San Mateo

234 of 460


--- page 235 ---
City of San Mateo and San Mateo Safety Management Association - 2023 Negotiations

Tentative Agreement

6.0 SPECIAL PAY

6.6 Management Incentive Pay

Effective July 9, 2023 the City shall provide a three percent (3%) differential of base salary for
Captains and Lieutenants. This differential is to recognize the supervisory responsibilities of
safety management employees as part of the Police Department Command Staff and to
encourage promotions. The effective date of this differential is in recognition of the pause in the
negotiation process due to the City’s change of City Manager. The union acknowledges this is
an extraordinary circumstance and not a departure from the City’s long-standing practice of
adopting MOU’s with compensation effective dates the pay period following adoption or later.

Date: ZO / 30/362 3

For the Safety Management Association For the City of San Mateo

235 of 460


--- page 236 ---
City of San Mateo and San Mateo Safety Management Association - 2023 Negotiations

Tentative Agreement

27.0 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
27.3 Uniform Allowance
Effective tuhy22017, Police Safety Management personnel uniform allowance shall be paid at

the rate of $36.73-per_pay_period_ Effective April 19,2020, the rate shall increase to-$46, 15 per
pay period.

For the Safety Management Association For the City of San Mateo

236 of 460


--- page 237 ---
City of San Mateo and San Mateo Safety Management Association - 2023 Negotiations

Tentative Agreement

9.0 ACCRUAL OF VACATION, AND SICK LEAVE AND-HOLIDAY LEAVE
Employees shall accrue vacation leave_and; sick leave and-helidayteaye-on a pro-rata basis in
proportion to regular hours (non-overtime) on the payroll. Credit shall not be received for time
off without pay.

Vacation leave_and; sick leave-and-heliday credits shall accrue from date of appointment.

Employees separating from the City shall not be allowed to remain on the payroll after their
last day at work. Severance payment shall be provided in a lump-sum for all leave accrual
eligible for payout. The intent of this paragraph is to prevent employees from running out
vacation and thereafter not returning to work or returning for only a very short time period.

10.0 DAILY HOUR VALUE

The hour value of a leave day for helidays—vacation leave, sick leave, or other leave shall be
determined by dividing the average number or regularly scheduled weekly hours by five, which
results in the ratio of hours of all weekly hour schedules to the five-day - 40-hour per week
employee. .

11.0 CONTINUOUS SERVICE
Continuous service shall mean service in any merit classification since original appointment
with the City, excluding any time prior to a break in service.

11.1_Paid Time Off Impact
As used in this Section, one (1) year of completed continuous service shall include, but not be

limited to, all time while the employee is on sick leave, executive leave, heliday;and/or vacation
leave.

11.2 Unpaid Time Off Impact

Neither military leave nor leave of absence without pay shall constitute an interruption in
computing continuous service. However, leaves of absence without pay of over one month
shall not be included when computing length of continuous service for vacation purposes.

12.0 HOLIDAYS
12.1 Holidays Observed

The holidays to be observed are as follows:

A. New Year's Day, January Ist
B. Martin Luther King's Birthday, 3rd Monday in January
. President's Day, 3rd Monday in February

237 of 460


--- page 238 ---
Memorial Day, last Monday in May
Independence Day, July 4th
Labor Day, Ist Monday in September

Veteran's Day, November 11

zo mm 9

Thanksgiving Day, 4th Thursday in November

—

The day after Thanksgiving

J.

K. Every day approved by the City Council as a public holiday, public fast, or a day
of mourning

Christmas Day, December 25th

12.2 Holiday Factor and Differential
Police Command Staff cannot always take holidays when they fall. Police Command Staff

shall be compensated for thirteen (13) holidays a year by being placed on a bi-weekly holiday
factor, pro-rated for partial pay periods. Effective March 22, 2020, Police Captains and Police
Lieutenants shall instead receive holiday-in-lieu pay at the rate of 5.0% of base pay each pay
period.

14.2.1 Service or Disability Retirement

Upon service or disability retirement, employees shall be paid fifty (50%) of their accrued sick
leave up to a maximum of four hundred eighty (480) hours payment. No payments of sick leave
shall be due or owed to any employee who is terminated by the City under the discipline
process.

All employees with one (1) year of continuous merit system service, whose employment is
terminated because of layoff or death, may be granted one (1) working day termination
allowance at their basic pay rate, in addition to other compensation due them and one additional
day for each complete year worked thereafter.

14.5 Protected Sick Leave
Protected sick leave may be taken and if taken, shall be charged to sick leave or, with the
concurrence of the department head, to vacation, holiday, or executive leave for the following
reasons:

e The diagnosis, care, or treatment of an existing health condition of, or preventative care

238 of 460


--- page 239 ---
for, an employee.

e The diagnosis, care, or treatment of an existing health condition of, or r preventative care
‘for, an employee’s family member.

e Anemployee who is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking.

Not more than six (6) days (48 hours) of such protected sick leave shall be granted in any one
calendar year. However, if extenuating circumstances exist in at the opinion discretion of the
department head, a reasonable extension of the six (6) day (48 hour) limit may be granted. Any
additional leave so granted shall be charged against the worker’s accumulated sick leave.

The City will adhere to state and federal guidelines regarding family, maternity, adoption and
bonding leaves. Employees may refer to City-wide policies in the Human Resources
Department.

14.7 Extended Sick Leave

After one year of continuous merit system service, employees who have exhausted their accrued
_ Sick leave may be granted extended sick leave pay at the rate of sevent}-seventy-five (75%) of
regular salary upon the recommendation of their Department Head and approval of the City
Manager. After each thirty (30) days of such sick leave, each case requiring additional sick
leave shall be reviewed by the Department Head and approved by the City Manager. Such
extended sick leave shall not be charged to the employee's future sick leave accumulation during
this period of extended sick leave.

21.7 ~Time

The time limitations set forth in the Article are of the essence. The term ‘ ‘working day(s)” shall
mean days on which City Hall is open for business. No grievance shall be accepted unless it is
timely filed, and no appeal may be considered unless it is timely taken.

For purposes of this Article, the time limitations applicable to the unit member shall be the same
time limitations regulating the Association and the information attributable to the individual
unit member shall be attributable to the Association. If the grievance is not timely filed, it shall
be deemed waived. If an appeal is not timely taken, the grievance shall be deemed to be settled
in accordance with the City’s decision at the step prior to the untimely appeal. If the City fails
to answer the grievance within the prescribed time limits, the grievance shall automatically
proceed to the next step; provided, however, that in no event shall the grievance be deemed to
be upheld by the City’s failure to act timely.

239 of 460


--- page 240 ---
22.0 LAYOFF

22.1 Layoff Procedure

Whenever, in the judgment of the City Council, it becomes necessary to abolish a position(s),
including the reduction of work hours over twenty percent (20%) per year, the employee(s)
displaced shall be deemed to be laid off (employees may accept an set#s-hours reduction in
excess of twenty percent (20%) without exercising their layoff rights). The rights of employees
affected by the abolishment of positions by the City Council shall be hereafter set forth in this
Section.

22.6 Severance Package

In the event there is not a less senior, formerly held position for the employee to access through
layoff or bumping, the employee will be provided a severance package equal to two (2) weeks’
pay for each complete year of service, to a maximum of six (6) months’ pay.

This severance package shall be in addition to any other buyouts and/or severance payments to
which the employee is entitled under their MOU.

In addition to providing severance as described in this Section, the City shall make
arrangements to provide employees laid off with job search assistance for ferty—feforty-five
(45) days following the effective date of layoff. Job search assistance shall include job and
career counseling, resume preparation, and job search assistance at City expense.

24.0 REEMPLOYMENT

Any past, present or future permanent employee, separated from a position through resignation
and without fault of delinquency on their part upon recommendation of the reemploying
Department Head may be reemployed to the former position, or to another position in the same
class, within two (2) years, provided there is an authorized vacancy and the employee meets the
requirements for employment.

Employees reemployed under this Section shall be subject to a probationary period and upon
the recommendation of the reemploying Department Head may receive credit for former
employment in the determination of the amount of vacation allowance, sick leave, other benefits
and their salary step.

Any classified employee who is laid off or demoted in lieu of layoff and who is still interested
in reinstatement on the expiration of the reinstatement list, shall be entitled to be reinstated to
their former classification for a period of one year provided there is a vacancy, all reinstatement
lists have been exhausted, and they have the highest layoff seniority. Employees reinstated
under this section shall not be subject to a new probationary period and shall receive credit for
former employment in computing salary, vacation, sick leave, and other benefits.

25.6 Flexible Benefits Plan

It is understood that during the term of this contract, the City may seek expert opinion as to the
parameters of this plan and all contributions to the Plan and to the Retirement Health Savings
Account outlined below are contingent upon compliance with state and federal rules and

240 of 460


--- page 241 ---
regulations. The Parties agree to meet and confer regarding a replacement provision if any part
of this structure is found to be noncompliant.

Effective January 1, 20202023, the City shall contribute up to +798-262.375.72 (inclusive of
the $160 maximum City contribution towards group medical insurance) per month towards the
flexible benefit plan.

Each January during the term of this Agreement, the City’s contribution to the Plan will be
adjusted to 100% of the Bay Area Kaiser Single rate, 90% of the Bay Area Kaiser Two-Party
rate, and 90% of the Bay Area Kaiser Family rate.

The City’s contribution for part-time merit workers working less than 40 hours per week shall
be prorated.

If an employee is eligible for alternative group medical insurance through a spouse or domestic
partner’s employer-sponsored medical plan, the employee may waive the City’s medical
insurance coverage and select such alternate plan. Proof of such alternate coverage is required
prior to waiving coverage through the City plan. Any employee who waives medical coverage
entirely shall be eligible to receive in cash the waiver amounts outlined below.

26.4 Deferred Compensation for Safety Managers
Employees are eligible to participate in the City-offered deferred compensation 457 Plan. The

City shall contract with a thied-partythird-party administrator to administer a 401 (A) Plan, and
a 401 (H) Plan for funding of retirement medical expenses.

27.6.1 Release of Information

Unless required by court process, the City will only release information to creditors or other
persons outside of City government enly—upon proper identification of the inquirer and
acceptable reasons for the inquiry. Information then given is limited to verification of
employment, length of employment, and verification of salary information if the person
inquiring first states the correct salary to the City. Release of more specific information may be
authorized by the member.

Date:_ 7C J 30/QOIP 5S
For the Safety Management Association For the City of San Mateo

241 of 460


--- page 242 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  15
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-6661
File ID: 23-8154
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
November 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Service Employees’ International Union Library Per Diem Unit – Memorandum of Understanding Changes 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the Service Employees’ International Union (SEIU) 
Local 521 Library Per Diem Unit for a term through June 21, 2026.
BACKGROUND:
The SEIU Library Per Diem Unit represents approximately 70 employees. The contract with this bargaining unit expired on 
March 4, 2023. Negotiations with SEIU concluded on October 25, 2023, and the membership subsequently ratified the 
proposed changes to their Memorandum of Understanding. 
Consistent with the direction provided by the City Council, negotiators for the City and the bargaining unit have reached 
agreement. These agreements include: 
Term: The contract will be for a period of three years, expiring on June 21, 2026. 
Salary: The bargaining unit will receive a 4.0% salary increase effective July 9, 2023 and an additional 2.0% increase for 
Librarian I/II series for recruitment and retention efforts effective July 9, 2023, a 3.0% increase effective June 23, 2024, and 
a 3.0% salary increase effective June 22, 2025. 
Health and Welfare: Effective July 1, 2023, the City’s contribution to HealthWorx increases from $350.00 per month to 
$390.00 per month. 
Service Reward: Following the first full pay period following Council adoption a one-time, lump sum payment, for each 
milestone shall be distributed to eligible unit members in the following manner: 
A. $500.00 for Unit Members employed for 10-19 years 
B. $750.00 for Unit Members employed for 20 years or more 
Other: There are language changes relating to departmental operations and housekeeping language that amend some of 
the terms and conditions of the contract.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact in the current fiscal year for these recommended changes, as any increases can be 
absorbed within existing operating budgets. Updated salary and benefit amounts for these positions will be 
incorporated into the 2023-24 budget.
242 of 460

--- page 243 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This tentative agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve 
any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
             Exhibit A - Tentative Agreements
STAFF CONTACT
Yumi Maeda, Senior Human Resource Analyst
ymaeda@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7279
243 of 460

--- page 244 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023) 
 
APPROVING AMENDMENTS TO THE MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE  
CITY OF SAN MATEO AND THE SERVICE EMPLOYEES’ INTERNATIONAL UNION LIBRARY PER DIEM UNIT 
  
 
WHEREAS, the amendments are related to salary, term, other pays and miscellaneous language changes 
relating to departmental operations, and language clarity for the unit; and  
 
 
WHEREAS, the parties have met and conferred, and have reached tentative agreement to amend the Unit’s 
MOU; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the Unit has ratified the Tentative Agreement; and  
 
WHEREAS no appropriation of additional funds to the Fiscal Year 2023-24 Budget is necessary. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
 
1. This Tentative Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity 
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially 
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).) 
 
2. The amendments to the Memorandum of Understanding for the Service Employees’ International 
Union (SEIU) Local 521 Library Per Diem Unit, set forth in the Tentative Agreements attached as 
Exhibit A, are approved and summarized as follows: 
 
Term:  The contract will be for a period of three years, expiring on June 21, 2026. 
 
Salary:  The bargaining unit will receive a 4.0% salary increase effective July 9, 2023.  For recruitment 
and retention purposes the Librarian I/II shall receive an additional 2.0% increase effective July 9, 
2023.  The bargaining unit will receive a 3.0% increase effective June 23, 2024, and a 3.0% salary 
increase effective June 22, 2025.   
 
Health and Welfare:  Effective July 1, 2023 the City’s contribution to HealthWorx increases from 
$350.00 per month to $390.00 per month. 
 
Service Reward:  Effective the first full pay period following Council adoption, a one-time, lump sum 
payment, for each milestone shall be distributed to eligible unit members in the following manner: 
A. $500.00 for Unit Members employed for 10-19 years 
B. $750.00 for Unit Members employed for 20 years or more 
 
Other:  There are language changes relating to departmental operations and housekeeping language 
that amend some of the terms and conditions of the contract. 
244 of 460

--- page 245 ---
2. There is no budget impact in the current fiscal year for these recommended changes, as any 
increases can be absorbed within existing operating budgets. Updated salary and benefit amounts 
for these positions will be incorporated into the Fiscal Year 2023-2024 budget.  
245 of 460

--- page 246 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO and.SEIU LIBRARY PER DIEM UNIT 
2023 MOU NEGOTIATIONS 
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT 
10.0 • SALARY ADJUSTMENT 
10.1 
Compensation Increases During the Term of this Agreement 
The Unit will receive the follmving across the board increases during the term of this agreement: 
Effective July 9, 2023 employees will receive a four percent (4.0%) across the board increase. The 
effective date of this increase is in recognition of the pause in the negotiation process due to the City's 
change of City Manager. The union ackncnvlcdges this is an extraordinary circumstance and not a 
departure from the City's long-standing practice of adopting MOUs with salary effective dates the pay 
period following adoption or later. 
To aid in recruitment and retention, the Librarian I/ll series shall receive an additional two percent (2.0%) 
increase effective July 9. 2023. 
Effective .lune 23, 2024. employees will receive a three percent (3.0%) across the board increase. 
Effective June 22, 2025, employees will receive a three percent (3.0%) across the board increase. 
29.0 AGREEMENT TERM 
This agreement terminates at 11 :59 p.m., June 21, 2026. 
The existing and unmodified rules, regulations, resolutions or ordinances relating to wages, hours and 
conditions of employment not covered in this Agreement for workers in this Unit shall remain unchanged 
for said period unless such changes are the result of meeting and conferring as required by law. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the City Council may increase the benefits for this Library 
Unit or may increase the wages of specific classifications in the Library Per Diem Unit. 
For the SEIU: 
For the City: 
Paul Vaughn ǐ 
EXHIBIT A
246 of 460

--- page 247 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO and SEIU LIBRARY PER DIEM UNIT 
 
2023 MOU NEGOTIATIONS 
 
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT 
 
21.3 
Notice of Proposed Discipline 
Whenever a disciplinary action is proposed to be taken against a worker, the worker shall 
be notified in writing of the proposed disciplinary action taken within at least five (5) 
working days in advance of the pre-disciplinary (“Skelly”) hearing. 
 
Such written notification shall include: 
 
A statement of the proposed disciplinary action to be taken against the worker; 
 
A statement of the facts upon which the proposed disciplinary action is based which 
shall set forth clearly and with such particularity the charges against the worker so that 
the worker can understand said charges; 
 
A statement must indicate the cause for the proposed disciplinary action pursuant to 
the Personnel Rules or other relevant City policies; 
 
A statement should describe any actions taken against the worker that relates to the 
current proposed disciplinary action; and 
 
A statement advising the worker that the written notice is to be placed in their official 
personnel file and that said worker has a right to Union representation. 
 
The written notice of proposed disciplinary action shall be considered to be sufficient 
notice to the worker if the above information is contained therein.  The written notice of 
proposed disciplinary action must be presented to the employee, either by personal service, 
email or sent via regular and certified mail (return receipt requested) to the last address that 
worker has furnished to the appointing authority. 
 
21.4 
Notice of Disciplinary Action 
Whenever a disciplinary action is taken against a worker, the worker shall be notified in 
writing of the action taken. 
 
Such written notification shall include: 
 
Statement of the disciplinary action taken against the worker; 
 
A statement of the facts upon which the disciplinary action is based which shall set 
forth clearly and with such particularity the charges against the worker so that the 
worker can understand said charges; 
 
A statement must indicate the cause for the disciplinary action pursuant to the 
Personnel Rules or other relevant City policies; 
 
A statement which generally describes any actions taken against the worker during the 
last five (5) years and which relates to the current disciplinary action; 
 
A statement advising the worker that the written notice is to be placed in their official 
personnel file and that said worker has a right to appeal to the Personnel Board.  
 
The written notice of disciplinary action shall be considered to be sufficient notice to the 
worker if the above information is contained. The written notice of disciplinary action must 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 98F169F0-7ED0-40B4-9015-0CB98976952A
247 of 460

--- page 248 ---
be presented to the employee, either by personal service, email or sent via regular and 
certified mail (return receipt requested) to the last address that the worker has furnished to 
the appointing authority. 
 
For the SEIU:  
 
 
 
 
For the City: 
 
 
______________________  
 
 
_________________________ 
Steve Tsou 
 
 
 
 
 
Stacey Cue 
 
 
 
Date: _____________ 
 
 
 
Date: _________________ 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 98F169F0-7ED0-40B4-9015-0CB98976952A
3/6/2023
3/8/2023
248 of 460

--- page 249 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO and SEIU LIBRARY PER DIEM UNIT 
2023 MOU NEGOTIATIONS 
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT 
17.0 HEALTH AND WELFARE 
17.1.4 Cost 
Effective January 1, 2020, the premium is $417.95/month. Starting September 1, 2018, the City 
shall contribute $250.00 per month toward the premium, and the enrollee pays the remaining 
portion of the premium. Starting May 1, 2020, the City shall contribute $350.00 per month 
toward the premium, and the enrollee pays the remaining portion of the premium. Starting July 1, 
2023, the City shall contribute $390.00 per month toward the premium, and the enrollee pays the 
remaining portion of the premium. If an employee's paycheck is not sufficient to cover their 
share of the premium in a pay period, the amount of arrears will be collected in the next 
paycheck. If the premium increases to $46500.00/month or more during the term of the MOU, 
the City shall send a meet and confer notice to the Union. 
For the SEIU: 
For the City: 
Steve Tsou 
Stacey Cue 
Date:  Gt7-412 
Date: 
 
249 of 460

--- page 250 ---
For the SEIU: 
CITY OF SAN MATEO and SEIU LIBRARY PER DIEM UNIT 
2023 MOU NEGOTIATIONS 
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT 
24.0 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
24.2 Library Service Reward 
Following the first full pay period following Council adoption a one-time, lump sum payment, 
for each milestone shall be distributed to eligible unit members in the following manner: 
A. $500.00 for Unit Members employed for ten (10) to nineteen (19) years 
B. $750.00 for Unit Members employed for twenty (20) or more. 
The continuation of this provision beyond the term of the contract would need to be made by 
mutual agreement between the parties. 
For the City: 
Stacey Cue 
Date:  SI 2-1V1Q--,3 
Date:  570 /2 3 
250 of 460

--- page 251 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  16
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-6661
File ID: 23-8156
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
November 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Service Employees’ International Union Library Merit Unit – Memorandum of Understanding Changes
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the Service Employees’ International Union (SEIU) 
Local 521 Library Merit Unit for a term through June 21, 2026.
BACKGROUND:
The SEIU Library Merit Unit represents approximately 23 employees. The contract with this bargaining unit expired on 
March 4, 2023. Negotiations with SEIU concluded on October 25, 2023, and the membership subsequently ratified the 
proposed changes to their Memorandum of Understanding. 
Consistent with the direction provided by the City Council, negotiators for the City and the bargaining unit have reached 
agreement. These agreements include: 
Term: The contract will be for a period of three years, expiring on June 21, 2026. 
Salary: The bargaining unit will receive a 4.0% salary increase effective July 9, 2023 and additional 2.0% increase for 
Librarian I/II series for recruitment and retention efforts effective July 9, 2023, a 3.0% increase effective June 23, 2024, and 
a 3.0% salary increase effective June 22, 2025. 
Other: There are language changes relating to departmental operations and housekeeping language that amend some of 
the terms and conditions of the contract.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact in the current fiscal year for these recommended changes, as any increases can be 
absorbed within existing operating budgets. Updated salary and benefit amounts for these positions will be 
incorporated into the 2023-24 budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Tentative Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve 
any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
251 of 460

--- page 252 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
             Exhibit A - Tentative Agreements
STAFF CONTACT
Yumi Maeda, Senior Human Resource Analyst
ymaeda@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7279
252 of 460

--- page 253 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023)
APPROVING AMENDMENTS TO THE MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE
CITY OF SAN MATEO AND THE SERVICE EMPLOYEES’ INTERNATIONAL UNION LIBRARY MERIT UNIT
WHEREAS, the amendments are related to salary, term, other pays and miscellaneous language changes
relating to departmental operations, and language clarity for the unit; and
WHEREAS, the parties have met and conferred, and have reached tentative agreement to amend the Unit’s
MOU; and
WHEREAS, the Unit has ratified the Tentative Agreement; and
WHEREAS, no appropriation of additional funds to the Fiscal Year 2023-24 Budget is necessary.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES
that:
1. This Tentative Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
2. The amendments to the Memorandum of Understanding for the Service Employees’ International
Union (SEIU) Local 521 Library Merit Unit, set forth in the Tentative Agreements attached as Exhibit
A, are approved and summarized as follows:
Term: The contract will be for a period of three years, expiring on June 21, 2026.
Salary: The bargaining unit will receive a 4.0% salary increase effective July 9, 2023. For recruitment
and retention purposes the Librarian I/II shall receive an additional 2.0% increase effective July 9,
2023. The bargaining unit will receive a 3.0% increase effective June 23, 2024, and a 3.0% salary
increase effective June 22, 2025.
Other: There are language changes relating to departmental operations and housekeeping language
that amend some of the terms and conditions of the contract.
2. There is no budget impact in the current fiscal year for these recommended changes, as any
increases can be absorbed within existing operating budgets. Updated salary and benefit amounts
for these positions will be incorporated into the Fiscal Year 2023-2024 budget.
253 of 460

--- page 254 ---
17.0

17.1

17.2.1

17.2.2

EXHIBIT A

CITY OF SAN MATEO and SEIU LIBRARY MERIT UNIT
2023 MOU NEGOTIATIONS

TENTATIVE AGREEMENT

HEALTH AND WELFARE

Health Insurance

The City shall make a dedicated health contribution on behalf of those workers eligible for
Group Medical Coverage or Medicare Part B under the various plans available to the City
in the amounts necessary to a maximum contribution of $160.00 or not less than the Public
Employees’ Medical Hospital Care Act ((PEMHCA”) prescribed by Government Code
Section 22892, whichever is greater per worker per month. The City's health contribution
for part-time merit workers shall be made ona pro rata basis in accordance to hours on the
payroll.

The City shall make available to eligible current and retired worker benefits equal to the
Meyers-Geddes State Employees' Medical and Hospital Care Act, and may self-insure after
meeting and conferring with the Union.

Merit Employees hired before July 1, 2006

Waive (AEE
* Foceive $294.76 per month as part-of thelr salary

e Effective January 10, 2021 employees who waive health insurance entirely shall
receive $160.00 per month as part of their salary.

Cash disbursements for part-time merit workers working less than 40 hours per week shall
be prorated. Any workers exceeding 40 hours per week will not be given any additional
cash disbursement.

Merit Employees hired on or after July 1, 2006

Waive Coverage:

Employees who waive health insurance entirely will receive the $160.00 per month or not
less than the Public Employees’ Medical Hospital Care Act (“PEMHCA”) prescribed by
Government Code Section 22892, whichever is greater as part of their salary.

Cash disbursements for part-time merit workers working less than 40 hours per week shall

be prorated. Any workers exceeding 40 hours per week will not be given any additional
cash disbursement.

254 of 460


--- page 255 ---
For the SEIU: For the City:

Stacey Cue

Paul Vaughn

Casall éaslacredrr)

nnette Alexander

4 (Me
Derek Bahamondes

255 of 460


--- page 256 ---
9.0

SL

CITY OF SAN MATEO and SEIU LIBRARY MERIT UNIT

2023 MOU NEGOTIATIONS
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT

SALARY ADJUSTMENT

Compensation Increases During the Term of this Agreement
The Unit will receive the following across the board increases during the term of this agreement:

Effective July 9, 2023 employees will receive a four percent (4.0%) across the board increase. The effective
date of this increase is in recognition of the pause in the negotiation process due to the City’s change of
City Manager. The union acknowledges this is an extraordinary circumstance and not a departure from the
City’s long-standing practice of adopting MOUs with salary effective dates the pay period following
adoption or later.

To aid in recruitment and retention, the Librarian I/II series shall receive an additional two percent (2.0%)
increase effective July 9, 2023.

Effective June 23, 2024, employees will receive a three percent (3.0%) across the board increase.

Effective June 22, 2025, employees will receive a three percent (3.0%) across the board increase.

30.0 AGREEMENT TERM

This agreement terminates at 11:59 p.m., June 21, 2026.

The existing and unmodified rules, regulations, resolutions or ordinances relating to wages, hours and
conditions of employment not covered in this Agreement for workers in this Unit shall remain unchanged
for said period unless such changes are the result of meeting and conferring as required by law.

Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the City Council may increase the benefits for the Library
Merit Unit, or may increase the wages of specific classifications in the Library Merit Unit.

Forthe SEIU: | For the City:

acey Cue

Paul Vaughn

Annette Alexander

Derek Bahamondes

Date: ol LS | 2: 5 Date:

256 of 460


--- page 257 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO and SEIU LIBRARY MERIT UNIT
2023 MOU NEGOTIATIONS

TENTATIVE AGREEMENT

14.0 HOLIDAYS

14.1

Holidays
The holidays to be observed are as follows:

New Year's Day, January Ist

Martin Luther King Jr.’s Birthday, 3rd Monday in January

President's Day, 3rd Monday in February

Memorial Day, last Monday in May

Independence Day, July 4th

Labor Day, Ist Monday in September

Veteran's Day, November 11

Thanksgiving Day, 4th Thursday in November

Christmas Eve

Christmas Day, December 25"

Every day approved by the City Council as a public holiday, public fast, Thanksgiving or a
day of mourning.

Every day selected by the Library Board as a holiday in lieu of another holiday listed above
Three and one-half (3-1/2) floating holidays to be taken on a working day mutually agreeable
to the worker and the department. Floating holidays will be credited by the granting of
fourteen (14) hours holiday credit during the first full pay period in January and July each
year.

| {fective January |. 2024. (fhe holidays to be observed are as follows:

New Year's Day, January Ist

Martin Luther King Jr.’s Birthday, 3rd Monday in January
President's Day, 3rd Monday in February

Memorial Day, last Monday in May

Independence Day, July 4th

Labor Day, Ist Monday in September

Veteran's Day, November 11

Thanksgiving Day, 4th Thursday in November

The day after Thanksgiving

Christiiastoveiidiet of the day ater thankserange

Christmas Day, December 25"

Every day approved by the City Council as a public holiday, public fast, Thanksgiving or a
day of mourning.

Every day selected by the Library Board as a holiday in lieu of another holiday listed above
Three and one-half (3-1/2) floating holidays to be taken on a working day mutually agreeable
to the worker and the department. Floating holidays will be credited by the granting of
fourteen (14) hours holiday credit during the first full pay period in January and July each
year,

257 of 460


--- page 258 ---
14.2

14.3

[4.4

14.5

Board Designated Special Holidays

Employees shall have the option of either taking leave without pay or utilizing paid time off
during Board designated Holidays.

Saturday and Sunday Holidays

When a holiday falls on Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed and when a holidis
falls on Saturday, the preceding Friday shall be observed. In addition. the Library will be
closed on the respective Saturday or Sunday,

Employees’ schedules will be adjusted accordingly. If a holiday Jalls on an _employce’s
regularly scheduled day off, holiday time shall be granted for the observed day only.

Monday Holidays

Vor the following holidays that fall on Monday, the Library shall be closed on the preceeding
Sunday

Martin Luther King. Jr Das
President’s Day
Memorial Dav

| sly 1 devs

Pomphon ees eehechilis i! be wiyuisie } seeordiig)s fio holiday fabis on an enrypteyce s
regularly scheduled day off lelidas tine shall be vranted for ihe ebserved.day only. Workers
shallhe-compensated for established holidays that—al-on a Saburdiy- by pene ety
approximate hy-one-hal-(s)-ofthe- workers-te-cetebrate-the-holiday-an the briday-wimediatehy
preceding the Saturday -heliday-andthe-halance-otthe workers to celebrate the holteday on-the
following-Monday—Fhe workers-shall-recei ve-seven--7)-catendar days” notice oF he-holdas
schedtte—City- offices shall remain-open-or-both-days--H tis incon venientto-grant etherday
as--holidaytime-off shall betaken-at-the-diseretion-of the-Department- Head _with-due regarel
forthe desires-of-the-workerdndtheawoerklaadolthe department:

Work on a Holiday

If a worker is required by the City to work on any holiday, compensation for said holiday shall

be in accordance to the overtime provisions of this agreement, with the following exception:

¢ Equivalent time off shall accumulate as "Holiday Time Earned" and may accumulate
maximum of forty (40) hours.

e Time off shall be taken at the discretion of the Department Head, with due regard for the
desires of the worker and the workload of the department.

In the event one (1) or more holidays fall within an annual vacation leave, such holidays shall
not be charged as vacation leave.

For the SEIU: For the City:

For the SEIU: For the City:

258 of 460


--- page 259 ---
/
S |
y Bradley LO Cue ==

Paul Vaughn

Annee

Annette Alexander

Derek Bahamondes

259 of 460


--- page 260 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 98F169F0-7ED0-40B4-9015-0CB98976952A
CITY OF SAN MATEO and SEIU LIBRARY MERIT UNIT
2023 MOU NEGOTIATIONS
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT
21.3 
Disciplinary Action
21.3.1 Notice of Proposed Discipline
Whenever a disciplinary action is proposed to be taken against a worker, the worker shall
be notified in writing of the proposed disciplinary action taken within at least five (5)
working days in advance of the pre-disciplinary (“Skelly”) hearing. 
Such written
notification shall include:
 A statement of the proposed disciplinary action to be taken against the worker;
 A statement of the facts upon which the proposed disciplinary action is based which
shall set forth clearly and with such particularity the charges against the worker so that
the worker can understand said charges;
 A statement must indicate the cause for the proposed disciplinary action pursuant to
the Personnel Rules or other relevant City policies;
 A statement should describe any actions taken against the worker that relates to the
current proposed disciplinary action;
 A statement advising the worker that the written notice is to be placed in their official
personnel file and that said worker has a right to Union representation.
The written notice of proposed disciplinary action shall be considered to be sufficient
notice to the worker if the above information is contained therein. The written notice of
proposed disciplinary action must be presented to the employee, either by personal service,
e-mail or sent via regular and certified mail (return receipt requested) to the last address
that worker has furnished to the appointing authority.
21.3.2 Notice of Disciplinary Action
Whenever a disciplinary action is taken against a worker, the worker shall be notified in
writing of the action taken.
Such written notification shall include:
 Statement of the disciplinary action taken against the worker;
 A statement of the facts upon which the disciplinary action is based, which shall set
forth clearly and with such particularity the charges against the worker so that the
worker can understand said charges;
 A statement must indicate the cause for the disciplinary action pursuant to the Personnel
Rules or other relevant City policies;
 A statement which generally describes any actions taken against the worker during the
last five (5) years and which relates to the current disciplinary action;
 A statement advising the worker that the written notice is to be placed in their official
personnel file and that said worker has a right to appeal to the Personnel Board.
260 of 460

--- page 261 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 98F169F0-7ED0-40B4-9015-0CB98976952A
The written notice of disciplinary action shall be considered to be sufficient notice to the
worker if the above information is contained. The written notice of disciplinary action must
be presented to the employee, either by personal service, email or sent via regular and
certified mail (return receipt requested) to the last address that the worker has furnished to
the appointing authority.
For the SEIU:
For the City:
__________
_______________
Steve Tsou
Stacey Cue
3/8/2023
Date: _____________
3/6/2023
Date: _________________
261 of 460

--- page 262 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 55CC6606-E40D-415C-A976-6B98173ACFFF

17.9

CITY OF SAN MATEO and SEIU LIBRARY MERIT UNIT

2023 MOU NEGOTIATIONS
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT

Termination Pay

Upon service or disability retirement, workers shall be paid a maximum of fifty percent
(50%) of their accumulated unused sick leave up to a maximum of sixty (60) days payment.
No payments of sick leave shall be due or owed to any employee who is terminated by the
City under the discipline process, regardless of whether the employee takes a service or
disability retirement under the PERS system.

All workers with one (1) year of continuous merit system service, whose employment is
terminated because of layoff or death, may be granted one (1) working day termination
allowance at their basic pay rate, in addition to other compensation due them and one (1)
additional day for each complete year worked thereafter.

All workers whose employment is terminated because of layoff or death shall be granted
their option of one of the two types of termination pay described above.

Workers separating from the City shall not be allowed to remain on the payroll after their

last day at work. Severance payment shall be provided in a lump sum for all leave accrual
eligible for payout on the payday following receipt of the worker's final paycheck.

At the time of non-retirement separation from the City, merit employees shall receive all
leaves paid out except sick leave.

For the SEIU: For the City:

Stee Pou Stacey (ue

Steve Tsou Stacey Cue

Wate: 2” 228 Date: 3/23/2023

262 of 460


--- page 263 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  17
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 23-8155
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
November 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Park and Recreation Commission Appointment Subcommittee – Youth Commissioner Recommendations
RECOMMENDATION:
Appoint Thomas Jacob Jelniker and Serene Audrey Li to the Park and Recreation Commission as Youth Commissioners for a 
term through November 6, 2024, and place Jaslene Mia Rodriguez and Charlotte Graham on an eligibility list for a period of 
one year should another Youth Commissioner vacancy on the Park and Recreation Commission occur. 
BACKGROUND:
On March 6, 2023, the City Council adopted Ordinance (2023-1) to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.27 “Park 
and Recreation Commission” to provide for Council appointment of two non-voting youth advisory members. The City 
Clerk’s Office conducted a recruitment, which included an extensive outreach to organizations working with the youth 
community. A total of 15 applications were received, twelve applicants were screened as eligible for appointment, and, 
due to one withdrawal from consideration, a total of eleven applicants were interviewed by the Park and Recreation 
Commission Appointment Subcommittee, consisting of Mayor Amourence Lee and Council Member Robert Newsom, Jr. 
The Appointment Subcommittee interviewed the following applicants:
•
Charlotte Graham
•
Daphne Paige Conrad
•
Darshan Singh Bal
•
Jaslene Mia Rodriguez
•
Justin D. Wong
•
Emily Yuan Peng
•
Adam J Ryan
•
Serene Audrey Li
•
Seth Kantor
•
Nabhan Singh
•
Thomas Jacob Jelniker
The Appointment Subcommittee recommended the following action:
Applicant
Recommended Action
Thomas Jacob Jelniker
Immediate appointment through November 6, 2023
Serene Audrey Li
Immediate appointment through November 6, 2023
Jaslene Mia Rodriguez
Eligibility List through November 6, 2023
Charlotte Graham
Eligibility List through November 6, 2023
263 of 460

--- page 264 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this administrative action. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Boards, Commissions and Committees List
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, Deputy City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
264 of 460

--- page 265 ---
Updated 10/20/2023 
 Boards, Commissions & Committees List 
 
 
Term 
 
Date 
Appt’d 
Term 
Expires 
 
Term 
 
Date 
Appt’d 
Term 
Expires 
 
 
 
COMMUNITY RELATIONS COMMISSION 
(650) 522-7220 
Meeting:  3rd Wednesday, 7:00 p.m. City Hall (Room C) 
 
1 
Sheri Boles, Vice Chair 
07-19-21 
06-10-26 
1 
Meghan Crowell, Chair 
06-10-21 
06-10-25 
1 
Noopur Vyas Anand 
09-06-22 
06-10-26 
1 
Jerold Nugent 
06-10-20 
06-10-24 
0 
Alli Fitzgerald 
01-17-23 
06-10-24 
 
 
PLANNING COMMISSION 
(650) 522-7212 
Meeting:  2nd & 4th Tuesdays, 7:00 p.m. Council Chambers 
 
2 
John Ebneter, Chair 
06-01-15 
06-10-25 
1 
Adam Nugent 
07-19-21 
06-10-25 
1 
Seema Patel, Vice Chair 
06-10-21 
06-10-26 
2 
Margaret Williams 
07-15-19 
06-10-27 
0 
Martin Wiggins 
05-16-22 
06-10-24 
 
LIBRARY BOARD 
(650) 522-7802 
Meeting:  4th Monday, 5:30 p.m. Main Library Cedar Rm. 
 
1 
Richard Wysong 
06-10-23 
06-10-27 
0 
Sheila Canzian 
04-17-23 
06-10-25 
0 
Wendy McCall 
04-17-23 
06-10-24 
1 
Austin Volz, President 
01-03-22 
06-10-26 
0 
Shaylona Wheeler, Vice President 
01-03-22 
06-10-25 
 
 
 SENIOR CITIZENS COMMISSION 
(650) 522-7400 
Meeting:  2nd Monday, every other month beginning in January 
4:00 p.m. San Mateo Senior Center 
 
0 
Thomas Lease 
04-17-23 
06-10-25 
0 
Vacant 
06-10-23 
06-10-27 
2 
Monika Lee, Vice Chair 
07-18-16 
06-10-24 
1 
Ellen Wang, Chair 
07-20-20 
06-10-24 
2 
Mary Webb 
02-17-15 
06-10-26 
 
PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSION 
(650) 522-7400 
Meeting:  1st Wednesday, 7:00 p.m. City Hall (Room C) 
 
1 
Sarah Fields, Chair 
06-10-21 
06-10-25 
0 
Regina Trapp 
10-16-23 
06-10-27 
1 
Sandra Kiapi 
06-10-23 
06-10-27 
0 
Peter Wicher 
10-16-23 
06-10-26 
2 
Heather Wolnick, Vice Chair  
07-17-17 
06-10-25 
 
SUSTAINABILITY & INFRASTRUCTURE 
(650) 522-7153 
COMMISSION 
Meeting:  2nd Wednesday, 7:00 p.m. Council Chambers 
 
0 
Pamela Rittelmeyer 
01-17-23 
06-10-24 
1 
Kimi Narita, Vice Chair 
04-05-21 
06-10-27 
1 
Sigalle Michael 
08-15-22 
06-10-26 
2 
Clifford S. Robbins 
08-06-18 
06-10-26 
1 
Susan Rowinski, Chair 
08-06-18  
06-10-25 
 
PERSONNEL BOARD 
(650) 522-7260 
Meeting:  3rd Tuesday, 7:00 p.m. City Hall (Room C) 
 
1 
Caiti Busch 
06-10-21 
06-10-25 
1 
Debra Kaiser 
06-10-21 
06-10-25 
2 
Gayle Murphy, Chair 
07-20-15 
06-10-26 
1 
Elizabeth DeWinter 
06-10-23 
06-10-27 
1 
Tony Villanueva, Vice Chair 
01-19-21 
06-10-24 
 
YOUTH ACTIVITIES COUNCIL (YAC) (650) 522-7432 
Meets twice a month, Coordinator: Adeline Jones 
 
Youth from the following schools represent the voice of San Mateo 
teens:  Aragon – Hillsdale – Serra – San Mateo 
 
 
MOSQUITO & VECTOR CONTROL DISTRICT 
(650) 573-8358 
 
1 
Ed Degliantoni 
09-21-15 
12-31-24 
 
 
0 = appointed to unscheduled opening, eligible to serve a first full term 
1 = in first term currently 
2 = in second (final) term currently 
 
 
 
 
 
Board and Commission Members are appointed by the City Council. To apply for future vacancies, or for further information, please contact the 
City Clerk. Members serve a four-year term of office. Qualifications:  Registered Voter of the City of San Mateo. 
 
 
 
 
265 of 460

--- page 266 ---
Updated 10/20/2023 
 
 
 
 
Term 
Date 
Appt’d 
Term 
Expires 
 
 
MEASURE S OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE 
(650) 522-7040 
Meeting:  3rd Tuesday of the 2nd month of the quarter (February, May, August, November) at 6:00 p.m. City Hall (Room C) 
 
0 
Sandy Shepler 
04-17-23 
06-10-24 
0 
Karen Moen 
04-17-23 
06-10-26 
2 
Thomas Morgan 
02-05-18 
06-10-25 
0 
William Yang  
04-17-23 
06-10-26 
1 
Nick Atkeson  
06-10-23 
06-10-27 
 
CIVIC ARTS COMMITTEE  
(650) 522-7164 
Meeting:  2nd Monday, every other month beginning in January, 4:00 p.m. City Hall (Room C) 
 
Robert Gooyer, Vice Chair 
Seema Patel 
Ginger Slonaker 
Stephen Tabler, Chair 
Dianne Whitaker 
 
 
INVESTMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE 
(650) 522-7100 
Meeting:  3rd Thursday of Jan/Apr/Jul/Oct at 3:30 p.m., City Hall (Room C) 
 
Jeff Adams  
Michael Carney  
Chris deLong  
Margaret Taylor, Chair  
 
GENERAL PLAN SUBCOMMITTEE 
Meeting: Varies 
 
Cliff S. Robbins, Chair (Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission) 
Heather Wolnick, Vice Chair (Park and Recreation Commissioner) 
Lisa Diaz Nash (City Council Member) 
Adam Loraine (City Council Member) 
Seema Patel (Planning Commissioner) 
Adam Nugent (Planning Commissioner) 
Ken Chin (San Mateo Foster City School Board Member) 
 
 
 
 
Board and Commission Members are appointed by the City Council. To apply for future vacancies, or for further information, please contact the 
City Clerk. Members serve a four-year term of office. Qualifications: Registered Voter of the City of San Mateo. 
 
 
/s/ PATRICE M. OLDS, CITY CLERK 
 
266 of 460

--- page 267 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  18
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-6143
File ID: 23-8126
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
November 6, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Fallen Heroes Memorial at Central Park – Appropriation and Spending Plan
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve a budget appropriation of $228,836.81 in the 2023-24 Capital Improvement Program 
budget from the San Mateo City Parks and Recreation Foundation as a result of the fundraising effort of the Fallen Heroes 
Memorial Committee for the Fallen Heroes Memorial project at Central Park; and authorize the Parks and Recreation 
Director to expend the funds for the site work construction contract, procure site furniture, plaques, and other related 
improvements, as needed, and to pay other fees associated to the project.
BACKGROUND:
At its May 4, 2015, meeting, the City Council approved a concept to establish a living memorial in Central Park to honor 
San Mateans who gave the ultimate sacrifice in service to the country and the City, via both military service and public 
safety service. The expectation was set that the Fallen Heroes Memorial (Memorial) would be largely funded through 
community fundraising. The Memorial was approved as part of the Central Park Master Plan in March 2018. A committee 
was established led by former Mayor Maureen Freschet comprised of past councilmembers, community members, military 
service veterans, and public safety retirees to undertake managing the design proposal process, to research and determine 
the names to be etched on the Memorial, and to fundraise for the memorial costs. A goal of $300,000 was established and 
the Memorial Committee has been effective in reaching $303,836.81 in donations in the last two years. It is important to 
note that the City provided $50,000 to launch this effort, and those funds are currently assigned in the Capital 
Improvement Project fund and a pledge of $25,000 from the County of San Mateo will be secured once the contracts are 
approved and the actual construction begins.  
 
The mission of the San Mateo City Parks and Recreation Foundation (Foundation), a 501(c)3 non-profit, is to work in 
collaboration with the City of San Mateo Parks and Recreation Department to support parks, recreation programs and 
capital projects that can be enjoyed by all San Mateo residents. The Foundation agreed to serve as the underlining non-
profit organization so donors could receive the full tax benefit from their donations. 
 
Although the committee exceeded its fundraising goal, due to rising construction costs since this Memorial was envisioned 
it will be a stretch to cover all the costs to construct and install the Memorial. Therefore, timely approval of the proposed 
contracts for the implementation of the Memorial and necessary purchases with access to the appropriate funds to 
commence this effort as soon as possible is vital. Staff will be returning to the next Council meeting with a contract 
approval for the site work contractor. Staff is also in the process of seeking additional budget appropriation from the “Art 
In Public Places” Fund (Municipal Code Section 23.60.030) and will be seeking approval from the Civic Arts Committee and, 
if successful, returning to Council for an additional appropriation for the fabrication of the artwork.  The committee is still 
dedicated to continuing its best efforts to raise funds for this project.
267 of 460

--- page 268 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
  
BUDGET IMPACT:
Once appropriated, the donated funds will augment the Parks and Recreation Department’s Capital Improvement Program 
account.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This budget appropriation is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve 
any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att. 1 – Proposed Resolution 
STAFF CONTACT
Nicholas Tsiorvas, Business Manager
ntsiorvas@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7408
268 of 460

--- page 269 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023)
AUTHORIZING AN APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS AND AUTHORIZING THE PARKS AND RECREATION DIRECTOR TO 
EXPEND THE FUNDS FOR THE FALLEN HEROES MEMORIAL AT CENTRAL PARK
WHEREAS, City Council approved a concept to establish a living memorial in Central Park to honor San 
Mateans who gave the ultimate sacrifice in service to the country and the City, via both military service and 
public safety service; and
WHEREAS, a goal of $300,000 was established and the Memorial Committee has been effective in 
reaching $303,836.81 in donations in the last two years; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo Parks and Recreation Foundation agreed to serve as the underlining 
non-profit organization so donors could receive the full tax benefit from their donations.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
This budget appropriation is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity 
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially 
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378( b)(4).) 
2.
A budget appropriation of $228,836.81 in the 2023-24 Capital Improvement Program budget from 
the San Mateo City Parks and Recreation Foundation is approved.
3.
The Parks and Recreation Director is authorized to expend the funds for the site work construction 
contract, to procure site furniture, plaques, and other related improvements, as needed, and to pay 
other fees associated to the Fallen Heroes Memorial.
269 of 460

--- page 270 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  19
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 26-3111
File ID: 23-8090
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
November 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement Extension Request – Ordinance Introduction
RECOMMENDATION:
Introduce an Ordinance to approve a three-year extension of the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement.
BACKGROUND:
The Bay Meadows Phase II Project is an 83-acre transit-oriented development with a range of land uses, including 
residential, commercial, educational, and public park uses that redeveloped the former Bay Meadows Racetrack, which 
has a main site address of 2600 S. Delaware Street. The Bay Meadows Phase II area is subdivided into 18 development 
blocks: five office blocks, four mixed-use blocks, and nine residential blocks. The City Council originally approved the Bay 
Meadows Phase II Project in November of 2005 when adopting the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment, 
Environmental Impact Report, and the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement. The Bay Meadows Phase II 
Development Agreement (Attachment 2), adopted through Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 17 (2005), provides an 18-year 
timeframe for the vested rights of the projects and completion of improvements under the Agreement through December 
20, 2023. 
Bay Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC (“Owner”) has requested a three-year extension of the Development Agreement’s 
term, from December 20, 2023 to December 20, 2026 due to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting 
slow-down in the office market. The Bay Meadows Phase II project developer, Wilson Meany (“Applicant”), has indicated 
that they are unable to construct the final two blocks (Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3) within the original Development 
Agreement term ending on December 20, 2023. 
On October 10, 2023, the Planning Commission voted unanimously (5-0) to recommend approval of the extension request. 
After introduction and adoption of the Ordinance (Attachment 1), the Owner and City would execute and record the 
amendment prior to the end of the original Development Agreement term of December 20, 2023. 
Development Agreement Extension Request
On August 11, 2023, the Applicant submitted a letter explaining the extension request of the Development Agreement for 
the Bay Meadows Phase II Project (PA-2023-050) for a period of three years. As outlined in the extension request letter 
(Attachment 3), the Applicant is seeking a three-year extension of the Development Agreement to extend the total term 
from 18 years to 21 years, which extends the Agreement’s term to December 20, 2026. The Applicant indicates that the 
extension is necessary due to the COVID-19 pandemic delaying their ability to complete the development of the final two 
blocks (MU2 and MU3) by causing ongoing disruption in the office and financing markets. 
No other changes to the Development Agreement are being requested. In addition, no changes to the approved project 
are proposed. As such, the development will remain within the allowable range of office square-footage and residential 
270 of 460

--- page 271 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
density and will remain consistent with the City’s General Plan, the Rail Corridor Transit Oriented Development Plan, and 
the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment. The original Development Agreement was approved by Ordinance, 
and an Ordinance Amendment approval by the City Council would be needed to make the requested change to the terms 
of the Development Agreement. 
Section 3.8 of the Development Agreement states that the City cannot impose any further or additional exactions on the 
development of the project.  The exactions applicable to the Project as provided in the Specific Plan and the Development 
Agreement shall not be modified or renegotiated by the City as a result of any amendment to the Specific Plan, the Project 
Approvals or the Development Agreement which does not materially increase the density or intensity of development. As 
such, no further exactions are sought for the extension request. In addition, Section 11.1 of the Development Agreement 
provides that the City and Developer may amend the Development Agreement by mutual consent in writing, and in a 
manner provided for in Government Code Section 65868 and Section 8 of the Development Agreement Resolution.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are no direct fiscal implications to the City’s General Fund associated with this request. The City collected 
development impact fees at the time of issuance of building permits for development on each block.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The City Council certified the Final Environmental Impact report (EIR) for the San Mateo Rail Transit-Oriented Development 
Corridor Plan and the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment, in compliance with the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) on April 18, 2005.  The City Council then approved the Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment, re-
certified the Final EIR for that project, and adopted the findings and statement of overriding considerations on November 
7, 2005. Because there are no substantial changes to the project and no new information has become available since the 
time of the EIR, no further CEQA analysis is required at this time (CEQA Statute and Guidelines Section 21166).
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
One public comment was submitted prior to this public hearing, which requested more information regarding the 
Homeowners Association Board composition and indicated a concern for the visual appearance of the MU 2 and MU 3 
blocks. This comment was forwarded to the Applicant for response regarding the Homeowners Association. In addition, 
the Applicant is responsible for upkeep of the visual appearance of all blocks during construction through fencing and 
maintaining sidewalk access through conditions of approval.
Public comments submitted after publication of this report will be forwarded to the City Council for review and 
consideration at the public hearing and posted to this item on the City’s Agendas & Minutes Public Meeting Portal as “Post 
Packet Public Comments.”
NOTICE PROVIDED
In accordance with Government Code Section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code public noticing requirements, this 
public hearing was noticed to the following parties at least ten (10) days in advance of the City Council meeting:
•
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site.
•
The City’s “900 List”, which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects; 
•
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and,
•
The interested parties list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Ordinance with Amendment to the Development Agreement
Att 2 – Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement (2005)
Att 3 – Extension Request Letter
Att 4 – Public Comment
271 of 460

--- page 272 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner
Lisa Costa Sanders, Contract Planner
rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org
lcostasanders@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7211
272 of 460

--- page 273 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Approving the First Amendment to the Development Agreement Between the City of San 
Mateo and Bay Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC in Order to Extend the Development 
Agreement by Three Years for the Bay Meadows Phase II Project (PA-2023-050)
WHEREAS, the ordinance approving the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement 
was adopted by the City Council on November 7, 2005, and became effective on December 21, 
2005; and
WHEREAS, Bay Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC (“Owner”) submitted an application 
on August 17, 2023 (PA-2023-050) requesting a three-year extension of the Development 
Agreement, citing the COVID-19 pandemic and its adverse impact on the ability of the Owner to 
complete the envisioned development on the Property within the allotted timeframe; and
WHEREAS, Section 11.1 of the Development Agreement provides that the parties may 
amend the Development Agreement by mutual consent in writing, and in the manner provided 
for in Government Code Section 65868 and Section 8 of the Development Agreement 
Resolution; and
WHEREAS, the City and Bay Meadows wish to amend the Development Agreement to 
add three (3) years to the term to facilitate the beneficial development of the Property; and 
WHEREAS, the Development Agreement has not been amended or modified except as 
otherwise indicated in the First Amendment to the Development Agreement, and neither the 
Owner nor the City is in default in the performance of their respective obligations under the 
Development Agreement; and
WHEREAS, on October 10, 2023, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public 
hearing at which all public comments were considered and recommended that the City Council 
approve the extension request; and
WHEREAS, on November 6, 2023, the City Council held a duly noticed public hearing at 
which all public comments were considered.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1.
In accordance with Government Code section 65867.5, the First 
Amendment to the Development Agreement is consistent with the City’s General Plan, the Rail 
Corridor Transit Oriented Development Plan, and the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan 
Amendment in that the extension request provides for the orderly implementation of the 
Development Agreement in accordance with the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented 
Development Plan and the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan. The extension provides 
sufficient time for the Owner to complete construction of the final two development blocks, 
including public improvements, consistent with the approved Site Plan and Architectural Review 
Modification (PA-2020-053). With the development of the final two development blocks, the 
273 of 460

--- page 274 ---
overall Bay Meadows Phase II development will be within the allowable range of office uses and 
residential density as permitted in the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan.
Section 2. 
For the reasons set forth in the Administrative Report accompanying the 
original project approval, the Development Agreement provides substantial public benefits to 
persons residing or owning property outside the boundaries of the development project, 
beyond the exactions for public benefits required in the normal development review process 
under federal, state, or local law.
Section 3. 
The City Council approves and authorizes the City Manager to execute 
the First Amendment to the Development Agreement in substantially the form attached as 
Exhibit A to this Ordinance. Section 1.5 of the Development Agreement is amended to extend 
the term to December 20, 2026.
Section 4. 
Environmental Determination. On April 18, 2005, a Supplemental 
Environmental Impact Report to the Rail Corridor Plan Environmental Impact Report was 
prepared for this Project and the City Council approved the Bay Meadows Specific Plan 
Amendment and re-certified the Final EIR for that project and adopted the findings and 
statement of overriding considerations on November 7, 2005 in accordance with Public 
Resources Code section 21061. Because there are no substantial changes to the project and no 
new information has become available since the time of the EIR, no further environmental 
analysis is required.
Section 5.
Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this 
ordinance shall be determined invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall 
be deemed severable and all other sections or portions hereof shall remain in full force and 
effect.
Section 6. 
Publication. This ordinance shall be published in summary in a 
newspaper of general circulation, posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's 
website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City Charter.
Section 7.
Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on 
Clerk to complete., and adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its 
adoption.
274 of 460

--- page 275 ---
RECORDING REQUESTED BY
AND WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO:
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP
333 S. Grand Avenue, Suite 4900
Los Angeles, California 90071
Attention: Benjamin Saltsman, Esq.
With a copy to:
Office of the City Attorney
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, California 94403
THE AREA ABOVE IS RESERVED FOR RECORDER’S USE
FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND BAY MEADOWS MAIN TRACK 
INVESTORS, LLC
SEPARATE PAGE PURSUANT TO CAL. GOV’T CODE § 27361.6
275 of 460

--- page 276 ---
FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND BAY MEADOWS MAIN TRACK 
INVESTORS, LLC
This FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN 
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND BAY MEADOWS MAIN TRACK INVESTORS, LLC 
(“First Amendment”) is dated December ____, 2023, and is by and between the City of 
San Mateo, a municipal corporation of the State of California (“City”), and Bay Meadows 
Main Track Investors, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“Bay Meadows”).
WHEREAS, City and Bay Meadows are parties to that certain Bay Meadows 
Phase II Development Agreement dated November 21, 2005 and recorded in the Official 
Records of San Mateo County, California (“Official Records”) on January 24, 2006 as 
Instrument Number 2006-011071, as modified by (1) that certain Memorandum of 
Technical Corrections to the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement (the 
“Memorandum of Corrections”) dated July 21, 2008 and recorded in the Official Records 
on July 22, 2008 as Instrument Number 2008-084562 and (2) that certain Minor 
Modification to the Development Agreement between The City of San Mateo and Bay 
Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC dated November 21, 2011 and recorded in the 
Official Records on March 26, 2012 as Instrument Number 2012-039872 (collectively, the 
"Development Agreement"), pertaining to the redevelopment of the "Property" described 
therein and on Exhibit “A” attached hereto (the "Property"), commonly known as Bay 
Meadows Phase II, located in the City of San Mateo, State of California; and
WHEREAS, Section 11.1 of the Development Agreement provides that the parties 
may amend the Development Agreement by mutual consent in writing, and in the manner 
provided for in Government Code Section 65868 and Section 8 of the Development 
Agreement Resolution; and
WHEREAS, the Effective Date of the Development Agreement was December 21, 
2005, and the Term therefore expires on December 20, 2023; and
WHEREAS, the COVID-19 pandemic adversely impacted Bay Meadows’ ability to 
complete the envisioned development on the Property; and
WHEREAS, the City and Bay Meadows wish to amend the Development 
Agreement to add three (3) years to the Term to facilitate the beneficial development of 
the Property; and
WHEREAS, after conducting a duly noticed public hearing on [October 10, 2023], 
by a vote of 5-0, the Planning Commission recommended that the City Council approve 
this First Amendment; and
276 of 460

--- page 277 ---
WHEREAS, On [November 6, 2023], the City Council held a duly noticed public 
hearing on this First Amendment and after independent review and consideration, 
approved this First Amendment by first reading of Ordinance No. _____________.  On 
[November 20, 2023], the City Council approved this First Amendment by second reading 
of Ordinance ______________.  Ordinance No. ____________ became effective on 
[December 20, 2023].
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.
Section 1.51 of the Development Agreement, “Term,” is modified to read 
as follows (with the deletion shown in strike-out form, and additions underlined):
“The term of this Agreement, commencing on the later to occur of (i) the Effective 
Date or (ii) if a legal proceeding is initiated challenging the validity of the Enacting 
Ordinance, the MMRP, the EIR, the General Plan Amendment, the Specific Plan 
Amendment or other Project Approval, this Agreement, or the Master Tentative 
Map Approval, the date such legal proceeding is finally concluded upholding the 
Enacting Ordinance or other relevant approval, and terminating eighteen (18) 
twenty-one (21) years thereafter, unless sooner Terminated as provided in this 
Agreement.   For purposes hereof, a legal proceeding shall be deemed "finally 
concluded" upon the date of the entry of a final, non-appealable order or judgment 
in such proceeding upholding the validity of the Enacting Ordinance or other 
Project Approval. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the 
term of this Agreement ends on December 20, 20236.”
2.
The parties intend hereby to modify the Development Agreement only as 
set forth in this First Amendment, and the parties hereby agree that, except as expressly 
modified hereby, the remaining terms of the Development Agreement are hereby 
confirmed and remain in full force and effect and a binding obligation.
3.       The Development Agreement has not been amended or modified either 
orally or in writing except as indicated in this First Amendment, and neither Owner nor City 
is in default in the performance of their respective obligations under the Development 
Agreement. 
4.
This First Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, 
each of which, when executed, shall be deemed to be an original, and all of which shall 
be deemed to be one and the same instrument.  Electronically transmitted signatures shall 
be deemed originals. 
[SIGNATURES FOLLOW ON NEXT PAGE]
277 of 460

--- page 278 ---
278 of 460

--- page 279 ---
Signature Page – First Amendment (Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement)
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
BAY MEADOWS MAIN TRACK
INVESTORS, LLC
A Delaware 
limited liability company
Alex Khojikian
City Manager
Date 
<Insert Name>
<Insert Title> 
Date
ATTEST: 
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Patrice Olds
City Clerk 
Date 
Prasanna W. Rasiah
City Attorney 
Date
279 of 460

--- page 280 ---
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the identity 
of the individual who signed the document to which this certificate is attached, 
and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of that document.
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
)
COUNTY OF __________________)
On ________________, 2023, before me, 
______________________________, a Notary Public, personally 
appeared__________________________________________, who proved to 
me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) 
is/are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that 
he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that 
by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon 
behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.
I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of 
California that the foregoing paragraph is true and correct.
WITNESS my hand and official seal.
Signature _____________________________________   (Seal)
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the identity 
of the individual who signed the document to which this certificate is attached, 
and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of that document.
280 of 460

--- page 281 ---
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
)
COUNTY OF __________________)
On ________________, 2023, before me, 
______________________________, a Notary Public, personally 
appeared__________________________________________, who proved to 
me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) 
is/are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that 
he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that 
by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon 
behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.
I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of 
California that the foregoing paragraph is true and correct.
WITNESS my hand and official seal.
Signature _____________________________________   (Seal)
281 of 460

--- page 282 ---
EXHIBIT A TO FIRST AMENDMENT
TO DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT)
The Property
All that real property situated in the City and County of San Mateo, State of California being 
described as follows:
Blocks 1, 2, 3 and 10, Lot A and that Designated Remainder, as shown on the Final Map entitled 
“Bay Meadows Phase II, No. 1”, as said map was filed for record on August 25, 2010 in Book 137 
of Maps, at Pages 37 through 46, in the Office of the Recorder of San Mateo County, State of 
California.
The Property is also described as Parcel 1, as shown on that certain map entitled “Bay Meadows 
No. 1, City of San Mateo, San Mateo County, California”, filed in the Office of the County 
Recorder of San Mateo County, State of California, on June 8, 1999 in Book 129 of Maps at page 
(s) 47 through 57, inclusive.
Attached hereto is a plat labeled “Exhibit A – Bay Meadows Project Boundary” and by this 
reference is made a part hereof.
106521255.2
282 of 460

--- page 283 ---
\a|ss|s| *\2
cit mien

=

Le BOULEVARD ETT TTT 1 clelel el
reeiilelselels alsl=(ala\a(s) in|sje|is|aja)21" aa
feojsjisfRiPPP PPE tt eer leis isis (2/212)
A ta a Bie njalajelsyMialeyEi
| wheter tite | [ge rue — TT
ee ee ee. UPN

1-1. )|« |- | {a} aeisiels ee P LL
. i -“-

SOUTH DELAWARE STREET

= |

[=jel=it
Little

le
ele
:
3

dwg, LAST EDITED: Thu, Aug 19, 2010 9:16am

Ni—Wap' EXHIBITS 4542—Project Boundary

OWG NAME: F:\Jobs\\4542—Bay Meadows Rocelrock\ Phos

USER: cathy, AloCod V.17.0s (LMS Tech}, Microsoft Windows NT Version 5.1 (x86)


--- page 284 ---
. - EXHIBIT A
a | iy to ORDINANCE 2005-17

| FINAL-1 1/4/2005 3:24 PM

This document is recorded for the benefit of the

_ City of San Mateo and is entitled to be recorded 2006-011071
free of charge in accordance with Sections 6103 TOr89am ot/24/06 pages ain FEE
and 27383 of the Government Code. Recorded in Official Records

County of San ‘Mateo
When recorded, mail to: Warren Slocum
Assessor-County Clerk-R

Citar SenMecn ome AUN i Wi
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue

San Mateo, California 94403

(SPACE ABOVE LINE FOR RECORDER'S USE)

BAY MEADOWS PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

CITY: The City of San Mateo, a municipal
corporation of the State of California

OWNER: Bay Meadows Land Company,
a Delaware corporation

ORIGINAL

284 of 460


--- page 285 ---
{ ( \
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Definitions. ........cceeeee “desuecseveccensevesevasaecsesssseuaeeaecsnaeeesnseessecenesgesecesuseecueeseeaeeeneserer eager 12
1.1. Adoption Date....cccscssssssssessesserecsssesseveseesssssssesssseereseesssssesssanessessserseenseserseenseeres LD
1,2. Application Date. ......ccccsssessseseesaseesnssssesnssesstensesenssersecnstasseasssceceassssasesserereraeas 12
1.3. Approvals. .......... ecevessdesevesssessusrseneeetenaecasecaceneureteaeeessasensasessendssessaseneesanesnsseaesae® 12
1.4, Assignment Agreement....cccsccssccssesssesesesserssseassesssssnsseerseserseasssestresecussesenseaees 12
1.5, BLOCK. ....scesessssseeescscsecessscvenesseserseseseeaesscerescsesesssseceseseessesesesaseesnteeanerseenenseseegens 12
1.6. BMR Units. ...ccccccccccccssessssscerrecsseccesseccnnesscaressesecsaecrsessecsesesssesssasesaeenensaeesanaegnes 12
1.7. CORRS. cecccccsccsssscsscsssesessesessessecsessecenensessccsossanscesnnenecesssesssesseaeseeesaseeseeneesensenenses 12
1.8.. CEQA. eseccccsccscssssnssssseresssssnscscsesnsssssssessecesenesenaasencetereseneaecsanseseeesonsessseenenses 13
1.9, CED vccseccsccsceccessescesssscsscssesssscesscotssesercescceasensonsescacasonessasesssasaseeseseesaeeneessnsenesauenes 13
1.10. City-Wide... seceesesstsssssnessssesssssssescscsensseseseneeneseceeessnenerenenerensesssanenseserenenes 13
L.11, — City Law(s). ncscsessssecsessssscsesssesesessensssneseceeneneacaeasanseeuserersnssanensenesesesesenasaeeee® 13
1.12. City Manager. .....ccccesesssesssesesrererssesseerecsrsessersanassasseesasecaseraaessoesseaseusenseausieegs 13
1.13. Community Park. Defined in Section 5.9.1... ccsscesesereterrececsersenersserereees 13
1.14. | Compensatory Right-of Way. Defined in Section 3.10... sss seaeeaeeenee 13
DUS. CPL iseccssesesssssecscesessesersneeresscnrencaentsscaesueeneseseresssnsenssassnssensssneaneeeasenessrarenenes 13
1.16. CPE Factor. ccc cccccscesessseestessseressssnecesstacesneacsensssasensreeneseaaeeessnaeeesernsesagnaaene seat 13
1.17. Design Guidelines. .....ccccseessesreesecenseresssenseaneereresaeees seeeeeseneesnececaceeseeveneeeass 13
1.18. Development Agreement Resolution. ....cscscsessesseseeereeececenenseeseerereeeees 14
1.19, Director. c.ccccccceescesceseccsnsessccrscesceescescnssecnevssasonsrsssnsersuusneassecesaeesseaeeenscssenanenseueny 14
1.20. Effective Date. ......cccccccsssscssscsssecssscesreesessnsessasonensssssseneesessaneseensesaaeensasesenseeres 14
1.21. EDR. ccccccccccccsccsccsssessssserscescsseseccsnecssssescesseseseveneessesseasrassesieessenesneeentecgeseressasenss 14
1.22. Election to Discontinue Racing, :.....cccsssecssessessesessnresseneeeeessererssersssneeseneeneaees 14
1.23.  _ Emacting Ordinance. .......cssssessssssssseserseseeereeseseenenensecsanessacassereesensessussssesasescueees 15
1.24. Event of Default. ..cc.cccscccccseccssessesscssssesssssensassscssvecsssserssesessecnenrsceeseceenensenees 15
1.25.  —_ EXactions....ccccccsessessesscsscsseeseesteccsesessecuecesersssassentecersessesenensnseneespecenseeesceaenae 15
1.26. Existing City Laws... scesseerecseerees vevceneuceesensceacasscaseneverensesasonseceessasseaseneees 15
1.27. First Phase. ..cccccccccsssssscsesecsceesrescscseesessseeesssecssessescesessesesuseeecsareeseensasesaeanaeen ey 15
1.28. General Plana... cece deneevucuesecssseusessueceseeseseeeeneecassesescsasecuseseseeseasueensneerseaess 15
1.29. General Plan AmendmMent.........: cece tssesensesscessessconeneessrsesesseesnaecnsanenseesereenens 16
1.30, — TPBececccccsvsccesecesscscscsvescecssesssecsesessscceesesceessesssecsevesceenevspecssssesssesseaassrssseansenenasseeees 16
1.31. — Law(S). vcecccssecscessesersceessscsvsnsessscsseeeceesenseseseneessenapeesacesssssacacoasuecssenessssenasseenannens 16
1.32. Map Approvals. ...ccscsscsesssececesssserssessssereessesacsssecesscasenesssseseenssssnsernersesersaeees 16
1.33. Master Tentative Map........:ccccsecssecseecsessressscsesssesssesseerersserersesseseecasonessanasenes 16
1.34. Mitigation Measures. ........ssccccsescssssesseeesrensesceesseesenecsesnsenessesesnensesasprenasenenenes 16
1.35. MMR, .oceceecscececcseccesscscescesscsscessseseecaeesssessesesssceeserssasenerseeesssaneeseneesaesnenaeenes 16
1.36. MOrt gage. ..c.ccccsccscsscscsscrsrscseserssescseesrssesseseeseeeresssnsesesesesensesecesssavesseesesseeansessease ss 16
1.37. Mort gagee. ...cccsseccrorssssscssressscesssesesesesensssesnensnacserersenseanecseceseeversassesnseeenan eee: 17
1.38. OWE. eeeeeeccessectescseeecesssenscesereeececeascesseneeessueteneaeesnanesnees Sesnaeeesenenaeesecsanenseceeees 17
1.39. Party. ciccseccsccceseerrersssssersesseesetsnsssecnsesesecsenansersesersnssesssseerstsnsesssesssenteneenensteseenenes 17
1.40.  —- PerSOnsscccccccccscscesssscevscsesecsseeresssaececessscucersvenseseesssersunesessesenseeaeaaaeeseneereneaneessaess 17
1.41. Processing Fee. .....cscccsesssecsessssessessesscersesesaseessesessenesarassenecaserseasacteraneneneeseeege rs 17
1.42. Project. ..c.cccccsssecsessesssesseeseeersesesesenasceserssesensnenenenerseseenevseseesusecauaseeseeceesearer ements 17
i

285 of 460


--- page 286 ---
Page
Table of Contents
(Continued)
Page
1.43. — Project Approvals, oo... ccecsssscssccsesseeseesetensentserenenseeenensrasseecsusaseversnensernessenenerees 17
1.44. POPCrty.c.ccicessesssessssscsesessesssstenersensnerenseseneneressseesenscesseesssnessesersanrsssneeaeseaeasenges 18
1.45. Project Tentative Map Approval...........-.+ neeeceneeesseeaseaceeaesnsecsessenesenssseevsneneaeees 18
1.46. Public Improvements. ......ccccsessereesesessenseeseersesecenseessssentsesesrerensenensessesseneenes 18
1.47. . SPAR. cccesececcssssssscscsssscsssnescescsesccaeeesnsesecuseadsccsrecsusevasseeseerensenuenessesentenssasenseaeenye 18
1,48. Specific Plan. vc. escssessseseeeeeeserereceseaesenseenenses Veveseeseveaesacenesseseeneeseneesseesessesrans 18
1.49. Specific Plan Amendiment. ......cccccsssssseserecesectsnerensnsnsnsecsressseseasesseessesnesseenseecees 18
1.50. Substantial Public Benefits. ........cccccseseseseseevessseesssseerstarerseersseesssersaeesensenses 18
L511, Tertricisccccccssccscsccessssescccsscecsevsscesssensvenacesaeesessesesesessecsesbranepeceseseeuseasnesreraseasneseess 18
1.52. ‘Terminate. ...cccccccccccccsessesscecssssecnrecssesesecosersnesssassesenessenscesesaueesraesenaeeresaeaseeeeaseas 19
1.53. Transferred Property. .......sscccccsseseesscrreeeseeeatenseenesensenes esedenneceactenssesesaeessonseseees 19
1:54. Trip Budget. 0... eesesssesssesseeseeseseesenessneenenessneserassesnescesssessecsecanereesnersnenenenees 19
Effective Date; Term. ......cccccccscssssessecessesssssoressscesssenessneersseensnecnengneessasaenassescerseaseevonsensees 19
2.1. Effective Date. ..ccccsssecsessscssscssesecscesessesssesssesscsesescseseesseesenesensensenseensseeasensonenes 19
2.2. Expiration Of Term...s.sccssssssssssesscssseseseeeesesesscnenerenesnessensceseassereneseesssrenserensnenens 19
General Development of the Project. .......cscsseseseesseecenseencesrersensenacersesasecarsesnesnesseaesnens 20
3.1. PLOjCCt. ..sesesssessescossnsecscenecavsesesssessenesesesesssenceneneneneneasueseensnsassessasseserasseasenens seseeesees 20
3.2. Milestones: Processing of Design Guidelines and Initial SPAR; First

Phase; Timing of Dedications and Contributions. .......... cc cseeeeeereneneererenaneeees 2]
3.2:1. Presentation of Draft Design Guidelines. ........cssecseresseenenssaseteeesseerennes 21
3.2.2. Submission of Design Guidelines, ........ccccsccssessesserseteeseeessettessnereeseees 21
3.2.3. Application for First Phase.......ssesessceeerereseenerseersesssnsreesseseeteeeeeaten 21
3.2.4. SPAR for Block Along Delaware. ........ecsscesesessssenerterenenes Vesetsseseneens 21
- 3.2.5. Dedication of Community Park, .....cccecssecsseseeerrsseecrersseteesersnersesensens 22
3.2.6. Dedication of Linear Park and Neighborhood Park. ........:csceesseeereeeeens 22
3.2.7. Dedication of Delaware Avenue Right Of Way. .....ccccccsessserteeeteeenennes 22
3.2.8. Traffic Calming Contribution. «0.0... ccesseeeee pesesseennecaaesaseeneensaseenenenaeesss 22
3.2.9. Limitation. ..ccccccccccccsscscsscsseescsssecssecsseeseensessseessessresaeceeensenssascnaeensaeseneees 22
3.3. Specific Plan... seesessssssesssesesesssessssseeeensssearsnsnseeesseacasenseaesensnesensseneeesesseneerees 23
3.4. Subsequent Projects. ..c.ccccssesscssesessessseeeenesseeeeseseeseneneasecessseasssssensaessaeeesseseneerens 23
3.5, Applicable Laws and Standards.......cssssesesessessseeneseesrereesseesensseecsseseassesenesenens 23
3.6. Other Governmental Permits. ........c:ccscceececsseessrscesessscerenesensesseesesanessrageesneneneens 24
3.7. Processing Fee, ......ccssrcessssssssssseessesstseresssersseseeeeseessneesssesonesssersesausesesseesseesens 24
3.8, No Further Exactions. ....cccccccsccsssessestsesseesseessessccceseasseerensesnsesensessaeeaeeesnensens 24
3.9, Transportation Mitigation Fee. .....cssesseeesrecsesessesseeseensesssenenesessenesanessesentes 25

3.10. | Advance Payment of Transportation Mitigation Fee; Consideration for
Early Termination. ......ccssesesesssssesseseesscseesssesesesseccssensiesenersassssssesensnseeesseeseetens 26
3.11.  Review'and Processing of City Approvals. ...... cscs 28
3,12. Extension of Approvals. ......cccccssccssseeseeresesecssenerseneecsseesesnensseeasasenesneseneegeses 29
3.13, — Iinterim USe. cccccecccccccsessesssssecsecssesessnecesersecscssasessseseseeeeesnaecseaeecaseesenecesaaanensegs 29
Subdivision of Property...c.c.scsccssscssssssesesseverscscsseseeessnssenassserensneesascsnsedeaseseeeensneseeasenerges 29

ii

286 of 460


--- page 287 ---
Page
Table of Contents
(Continued)

Page
4.1. Master Tentative Map.....ccsceessesssesescees peceasessecesacesersceaeeeeeesesenessecuaeseseassaseaes 29

4.2. Project and Future Tentative Maps. .....ccccscsesessceseesssessreeesenerenssenersesenereeenees 30,
4,3. Government Code Section 66473.7. ......sccsecesseversssecesessesseserserseessnsseneresseeseenes 30
Specific Criteria Applicable To Development Of The Project. ....secsscersereeeecserseteres 31
5.1. Application of New City Laws. ...cccccsssssesseesseseneneessneentecnsesreneeasrerseennereeaeney 31
5.2. Conflicting LawS.....cccccccssescsesesescsonssssssrscseesusesenssseeessesccesseeseneeneceenaessasenaees 32
5.3. THU, 00. cesesseseeneescceceesecenevancrevscesuenssancsessscanentenerseesseeasaceneessneneseneenesesaesazeneees 32
5.4. Subsequent Environmental Review. .....sccccsssssseceeesserseeecseeseesecsesnaesreeeneeneeenes 33
5.5. Easements; Improvements; Abandonment. .......c.ccsesseseceeeesceeesseeseeteeres OO
5.6, Design of On-Site and Off-Site Improvements. . secesnevaceneneacesnensesessneessaseneeseatens 34
5.7. Single Integrated Development, ........cccsescerereeseesesensesetetsenenseeenenestertenssenens 34
5.8. ——-— Public Improvements, ...... ccc scssssssssessssseseensseeseeenseenseessseneceeceerensaseeseneeneseaeeres 34
5.8.1, Phasing. ....ccccscsesecsesssseeecsssnesssssssecssccsssseesessessssseeeesesererseseeenseseeseneseneens 35
5.8.2. Stormwater. ......cscsccssssssccesecssesseeetssessnesssecsssesssoescsscsssseseeesenesessereeeeeeesaees 35
5.8.3. Rough Grading. ....ccccescsereeceessessssersnessnseseresees seseneeseeneenerseeaeeeeeacenee 36
5.8.4. Improvement Agreemenits and Security. .........csessceceeeeeeseeenerses beceeeeeee 36
5.8.5. Off-site Public Improvement. .........c cscs ssssccsssssnesesessesersecceeenaseseeneeeas 36
5.9. Parks and Open Space...ccccsccsssseccseesesssesssssssvscsssseecsesessesecssseeseeeeenseaseneseessesees 37
5.9.1. Timing of Dedication and Interim Improvement .........cccsecseeeseeeeeeees 37
5.9.2. Dedication and Designation of Linear Park and Neighborhood Park..... 38
5.9.3. Maintenance of Open Space and Dedicated Parks...........csscsesseresecres 38
5.10. Delaware Street. ....c.ccecsccsssscccsssessscssssssescssscesussessneessrscesseensrsessseeeseaseenseeeseenes 38
5.11. Community Facilities District... 0. ccccsssesseresesesenseseeesserssseeseeeaneseneseeeeraeenes 39

5.12. | Minimum Ten Percent Below Market Rate Units; Property Set-Aside for
Additional BMR Uniits........ccccssscsssscessesssrersesseeesecsssessscnssnenseesserncessenresseesenens 39
5.13. Waiver of Density Bonu... ccccessecscssessscusserssesceresnensneeseeeeneceeaeensrseesnenpensen es 40
5.14. Traffic Calming Contribution. ........cccesssesesssssseeeseessceeecescsesrsesnssrseqnenaseersearenes 41
5.15. Contribution to Public Art. ccc sereessesecssesscsssseseessesessscenesscneecsseeseee snes 4]
5.16. Contribution to Improve Casanova Park ........scessecsceesseseseresseensessseeenessseseees 42
5.17. Contribution to Fiesta Gardens Homeowners ASSOciation. ......eeeccesseseseenseees 42
5.18. Green Building Demonstration Project... cs ssecsesssesresecceeteeessecnsectseereesenes 43
5.19. Prohibition on Expanded Gaming... cccsccesseccssecesseenercssersesenpesssseernensceenes 43
5.20. Loss of Racing Revenue. ........cscccssccsccesceesessecssseeseesserssersesseseceseeseeserseseeenseeees 44
Periodic Review of Compliance... cccseccsssseseeeseccsersessscsccsssssesensecrsneessaereneeeneeeneane 44
6.1. Annual ReViCW. ...ccsesssescesesessscssssecrensnecnenstecnessessaesueceasersenscensesssccesevenseeersseeeeuene 44
6.2. Owner's SUDMISSION.........cccecsccsseetssecsseeececesseseeseesessansccaussdseceseserersedeneersaceneenens 45
6.3. Finding of Compliance, .....ccccesccsssesesseseesssesenenscessessseeseeeceessenenterserensatenesneenees 4S
6.4. Finding of Noncompliance/Danger to Health and Safety.......cccssscssesereeeeres 46
6.5. Appeals fo City Council....csccccssssessecsescressescentersssersnessssesensenneneenensessessesneceas 46
6.6. Miscellaneous Requirements in Connection With Annual Review.............0.. 47
6.7. Standards. ....cccccsscessesssessessssreseeseseceeesessecssersessectsessseeseveteesesecrsesssarssavseeesasnerenses 48
iii

287 of 460


--- page 288 ---
10.

li.

12.

13,

Page
Table of Contents
(Continued)
Page

6.8. Effect on Transferees. ......c:cecccccsssecssssccesssceescreceeessssesesaeeceeavesseseesesaeeesaneeaes seaeee 48
6.9, Event Of Default. .......cccccssssccssssessscsssseesenecscccseesccnsseseeecsaeseseessuesseneseeaececaneseesaees 49
Permitted Delays; Supersedure by Subsequent Laws. .......scscccresssssseessecsssssseeeeseeseeeees 50
7.1. Permitted Delays. ..........0 desaeeeneenaecasescuceanenseteacensaeessecssesacesesesseeseecadeseussesseeenas 50
7.2. Subsequent Laws, ....cccssscssesssessessececesseesecsesesecsenenessassees seussesesseassessessseeseesees 50
Events of Default; Remedies; Termination; Attorneys' Fees. ........ccsecseseessseseerseeseeaees 51
8.1. Events Of Default. 00.0... ccccccscccsessccssseccesssenceseceecesseesesseeeceesersssescrsneeeerseseeeseseses 51
8.2. ReiMedies.......ccccscsssecsscesscsnscssesnsecenceessecenesseesesnsecssseeeenaeenseseeeeesseceseeseneeesransesenes 51
8.3. Standards for Termination; Procedure on Termination. ...........cc:cccsseeeeesseeeees 53
8.3.1. Standards... sesevsvecsssdesevsssvsessvsvsvsesessvscessssesessasssesessees 53

8.3.2. Procedure for Termination. ..........cccsecccsssecsenseesessecsssasesneserereeesecerreeesesnes 53

8.3.3. Effective Date of Termination. ..........ccccccccccsssseecsesseseceseensceceeevsssnenenseeeess 54

8.3.4, Judicial Proceeding to Challenge Termination. .0........cceeecsesecsessereeeees 54

8.4, Effect of Termination.............cccccccssssecceccsssssceeseesesaeeees seeaeceensetesenateseeneeeeeeteeeees 54
8.5. Limitations On ACtiONS.........cccsscecssscecssseeesssscessessececsneenenceessaeesessrarevenseeteseeeses 55
8.6.  ° Waiver; Remedies Cumulative, ........ccsscccssssscsssssesessreecenseessceccessseseecsuneesersssnacees 55
8.7. Attorneys! Fees......cccsssesseeerescceesssenesrsearsonenrenee Soeseedesseneseeseceasaaseressaesonsauaeenserss 56
8.8. No Third Party Beneficiaries. 0... .ccccccseesessssessesessseesesesersecessessascseseresesasceesees 57
8.9. Effect of Court Action. .......ccccssccessrssesssreceserscessereecsssnetecsnesesnsesesaeeessseneeesacensenes 57
8.10.  Estoppel Certificate... eeesetcessesses seecseceesaaneeseecesecuaneesecersteseeassessaeeeeeenes 57
Mortgagee Protection; Certain Rights Of Cure.......cccsscsesscssssscsessseeessestecressseseseneeaens 58
9.1, Mortgagee Protection. .....ccicccsseessecsscesccesseesetsescesecasdsesesecanesaseasesasesaserseeaeneeeeee 58
9.2. Mortgagee Not Obligated. oo... ees ccsseseesessesersseereseseseeeesssseessseesnenssesoneeesens 58
9,3. Notice of Default to Mortgagee; Right of Mortgagee to Cure. vc. eeeseeeeeees 58
9,4, Right of City to Cure. ..cccseesscssressserersersensesseserenses eeesacedanensaueseseersneneetseeaeeeses 60
Transfer and ASSIQMMeDt. 0. ceeeseesctsessssesssssseseseensessecseseasesaressasrsesaseessesesresseaaoes 60
10.1. —- ASSIQIIMENE. 0. eee ecssectesseeseecreenscsecsressassraveeserseseceessnssasersvessacerseseearseseoueyee 60
10.2. — NOtice......ccccecccssscsssovsesvencesscsnsnevessreccessseversrseseeseesesesaeeensaecsensseeseneseseseeseneeereeeea 61
10.3. Assignment Agreement............. saneasenecanescoeeascasesevsseacnsccssnersssessenssssonsasssnsseessoans 62
10.4. Trip Budget. 0. cc ccessscseessesssesccssersegecesesccsenecsseevessecareesessssssarecessenesenseceaes 62
10.5. Covenants Run With The Land. 0... ccceseccsescceesecsssereresesssreneseseeseceeseeseaaea 63
Amendment and Termination, ..........ccccccscccssssecsssseecsssereesenneecsecaseresccsnasessauareesenneeeeesessens 63
11.1. Amendment or Cancellation. ............cccccccssssscceseeesssseceeesseceeesseescesecseeensaaaeeeanena 63
11.2. Recordation, .......cccccccscssscssesssececessceesnseeseseecsessneesessnececseseesaesevsneesessaseesesensneaees 64
NOtIiCES.......ccscssssreecsscecesssestecressesserecseetersenesurneanonenenteperenenss seeueeceseveveveeseeseecesereccecsenseeeees 64
12.1. — POCECUIE. .......cccseseccceessresectseeeceserensuacseneseseseeeseseseessevscaaeasasenesacaaconssauseceeeseaeeeuaes 64
MiscellancouS.......cccscscerseessseescssereesseererseecerersscensenaeenes sssaeeeeseeveeeseraessesesesssasersseeeeeneeeses 65
13.1. Negation of Partnership. «0... cscs lasnepersnenecesuesnssantaarsarcnarseasansosesacsantensseesees 65
13.2. —- Approvalls......ccccsscsseesssssscrstceccteerecceseeessesereerecessecncesensascasovseesesevessecensesessaneasegs 65
13.3. Project Approvals Independent... ccscscessesssesessssssesessesseessessessssenseeereaasenees 66
13.4. Not A Public Dedication. i... cceccsesscecsesseescecessesseeeecesesasseersneeeecesensesereeeeeeeuens 66

iv

288 of 460



--- page 289 ---
13.5.
13.6.
13.7.
13.8.
13.9.

13.10.
13.11,
13.12.
13.13,
13.14.
13.15.

( } {4
Page
Table of Contents
(Continued)

Page
Severability... csessesersssesseseenecees seseceeeesenecesassesecescearseesercssscneescnaseneaeeeuenease 66
EXIiDItS. 00... cesscesecesssessecsseesscsssenseerseerscseseesesscnsnacansersessasseenacessscvscacseseccevecsasenes 67
Entire AQTeCMent. 0... cc ssccssssssscssscssssesssssssscetessevsresnecenesecesuseeeeseseeeseeseereneeens 67
Construction Of AQreCMeNnt........ccccssesssscetsesssseesesssesscecesecesecssensenssatensecuersesnes 67
Further Assurances; Covenant to Sign Documents. ..............60: leeseaveavsesesnensoses 67
Governing LAW, ......ccsscsscssesssscssserscersereceessecasaserecatevercsecessscsecsasesaes baceeneanereres 68
References; Terminology......ccccecsseeereerees sensnenessenaneseceaanecsseeanecseersneeseneesacees 68
Signature Paes, ....cscsvseessesssecsessecsssceceeceecseessesnveressssnecseeeseesessseeresseceesreceeenes 69
COMStIUCTIONL.........c:ccccsesssersersseersersnscsscesacessssarsssserscassseeusstsccessscsacssstesssersncsseseses OD
THING, ...ccscsssccssccecesscecseeccseccsesessetesnercetesevessccseecvasansensessasesccatsevsecsssessecsncasseseses OD
Indemnification, ........cesccessssssecssssescesessscecssaseesececenseevsseeceeeescesesevscsssetassvecseseceeeeas 69

Vv

289 of 460


--- page 290 ---
EXHIBIT A - Description of Property
EXHIBIT B — Map of Property
EXHIBIT C — Specific Plan
EXHIBIT D - Estimate of Exactions

EXHIBIT E — Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program

290 of 460


--- page 291 ---
THIS BAY MEADOWS PHASE Ii DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (the
"A greement") is made and entered into as of this 21stday of _November , 2005, by
and between the City of San Mateo, a municipal corporation of the State of California ("City"),
and Bay Meadows Land Company, a Delaware corporation ("Owner"), pursuant to the authority

of California Government Code Sections 65864-65869.5 and City Resolution No. 120 (1990).

RECITALS:

This Agreement is entered into on the basis of the following facts, understandings and
intentions of the Parties:

A. To strengthen the public planning process, encourage private participation in
comprehensive planning and reduce the economic risk of development, the Legislature of the
State of California adopted Government Code Sections 65864-65869.5 authorizing
municipalities to enter into development agreements in connection with the development of real
property within their jurisdiction by qualified applicants with a requisite legal or equitable
interest in the real property which is the subject of such development agreement.

B. The purpose of Government Code Sections 65864-65869.5 is to authorize
municipalities, in their discretion, to establish certain development rights in real property for a
period of years regardless of intervening changes in land use regulations.

C. As authorized by Governmental Code Section 65865(c), City has adopted
Resolution No. 120 (1990) establishing the procedures and requirements for the consideration of
development agreements within the City.

D. Owner is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware and is

in good standing thereunder and is qualified to do business in the State of California.

291 of 460


--- page 292 ---
E, Owner owns fee title to that property (the "Property") consisting of approximately
eighty-three (83) acres in the area described in Exhibit A attached hereto and shown on Exhibit B
attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference. Currently an existing racetrack,
grandstand and surface parking are located on the Property.

F, On April 22, 1997 by Ordinance 1997-11, City adopted the Bay Meadows
Specific Plan (as amended by the Specific Plan Amendment considered concurrently with this
Agreement, and together with further amendments made from time to time in accordance with
this Agreement shall hereafter be referred to as the "Specific Plan") which covers the Property
together with an approximately seventy-five (75) acre area to the east of the Property (the "Phase
I Property"). At that time, the Phase I Property contained an approximately forty (40) acre
practice track and a thirty-five (35) acre horse boarding area. The Phase I Property has since
been developed with commercial and residential uses. The Specific Plan Amendment is attached
hereto as Exhibit C. No Specific Plan amendment shall require amendment to this Agreement,
unless such Specific Plan amendment would conflict with an express provision of this
Agreement.

G. For more than five years, City has been engaged in an intensive community based
planning process for the transportation corridor area in which the Property is located. The
planning process has involved ‘two city advisory committees and has resulted in adoption, on
June 6, 2005, of the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan, a plan
formulated with the express goal of pursuing transit-oriented development within the
transportation corridor along the Caltrain right-of-way.

H. In the course of its long-term planning process, the City has retained an

independent racing industry consultant and based upon the input from that consultant, as well as

292 of 460


--- page 293 ---
review of other materials reporting on the status of the horse racing industry in California, the
City has determined that the confluence of expanded types of gaming at horse racing facilities
outside California, off-track betting in California, low purses in California relative to other states,
and the high cost of boarding and maintaining horses and operating horse racing inside
California in comparison to other states, has and will continue to adversely impact the racing
Operations at the Property and that market pressures on the racing industry are pushing towards
more extensive forms of gambling at racetrack facilities throughout the country, including at the
Property. In balancing the various pressures and trends, the City has determined that the
residents of San Mateo want to limit the potential for expanded gaming at the Property. One of
' the key incentives to the City for entering into this Agreement is to provide Owner with the
assurances that it can develop the Project as contemplated in the Specific Plan Amendment
attached hereto as Exhibit C, in exchange for Owner's obligation to limit any expansion of
gaming on the Property. If transit oriented development as contemplated by the Specific Plan
Amendment goes forward as planned, gaming uses will be permanently eliminated from the
Property.

I. Consistent with City's goal of pursuing transit oriented development, on June 24,
2003 Owner requested that City (i) approve an amendment to the Specific Plan so as to amend
the land use regulations applicable to the Property ("Specific Plan Amendment"); (ii) amend the
City's General Plan in a manner consistent with the Specific Plan; and (iii) approve a Master
Tentative Map (as hereafter defined) for the Property, with the associated Public Improvements
and the other on- and off-site improvements contemplated by or embodied within the Specific
Plan and the Proj ect Approvals (as hereafter defined), as they may later be further amended,

refined, enhanced or modified (collectively, the "Project").

293 of 460


--- page 294 ---
J. The Project facilitates the City's long-term goal of pursuing transit-oriented
development within the transportation corridor plan area, by proposing a new mixed use
neighborhood that maximizes the uise of transportation alternatives to the private automobile. . In
particular, the Specific Plan is designed to maximize mass transit associated with the express
stop Caltrain Station proposed to be relocated no more than a quarter of a mile from anywhere on
the Property. The Specific Plan is also designed to enhance opportunities for walking and
biking, by providing a linked system of parks and open space and linkages to existing bike paths.
By providing a mix of commercial, residential and retail uses, the Specific Plan will reduce
traffic compared to other development. The Project provides for the dedication, design and
improvement (at no cost to the City) of a 1.5 acre Linear Park and a 1.5 acre Neighborhood Park.
The Project provides for the completion of key components of the City's street-grid, including
new connections at 28th and 31st, and the connection of Pacific to Delaware, increasing
connectivity between the east and west portions of the City, and relieving congestion on
Hillsdale and E] Camino, The Project provides an estimated $9.9 million in transportation
impact fees which will provide a source of funding for the City's local share of the cost to
implement additional rail grade separations at 28th and 31st. The Project will provide an
estimated $2.1 million in wastewater treatment expansion fees, and an estimated $3.3 million in
school fees. Through a hierarchy of on-site stormwater management systems, the Project will
not only be able to retain its own stormwater runoff, it will also provide additional capacity to
_ reduce the severity of the existing flooding conditions in surrounding neighborhoods.
(Collectively, these benefits along with others recited below shall be referred to as "Project

Public Benefits".)

294 of 460


--- page 295 ---
-K, The City has completed an independent fiscal impact analysis that evaluates the
effect of the Bay Meadows Phase II Project upon the City’s municipal costs and revenues, The
fiscal analysis concludes that the Project will have a positive impact upon the City, even when
accounting for the ending of horse racing on the site, and the associated loss of racing related
revenues. Specifically, the Fiscal Analysis found that: 1) fiscal surpluses will accrue as the
project develops beginning in 2008 under the currently assumed development schedule; 2)
projected fiscal surpluses will exceed the current fiscal benefit of race track operations each year
of Project development; and 3) fiscal surpluses are shown to continue through completion of the
new neighborhood, approaching $2 million annually by Project build-out. |

L. As provided in the Specific Plan and documented in the Project EIR and the
Fiscal Impact Analysis, the Bay Meadows Phase II Project will expand employment
oppoftunities in San Mateo by creating a commercial district with capacity of more than one
million square feet of retail, office and service-commercial space. This space may accommodate
more than 3,000 permanent employees, substantially offsetting the loss of the existing 900 jobs
associated with the race track operations, many of whom will be eligible for employment at the
gaming facility planned at the adjacent Expo Center. Additionally, construction and related real
estate industry employment will be generated during the anticipated 20 year construction period
with an annual average of approximately 500 workers.

.M. _ City has determined that the Project is a development for which a development
agreement is appropriate. A development agreement will eliminate uncertainty in the City's land
use planning for the Property and secure orderly development of the Project consistent with the
Specific Plan, assure progressive installation of necessary improvements and mitigation

appropriate to each stage of development of the Project, insure attainment of the maximum

295 of 460


--- page 296 ---
effective utilization of resources within the City at the least economic cost to its citizens, secure
public improvements and amenities that could not otherwise be obtained, and otherwise achieve
the goals and purposes for which the Development Agreement Resolution was enacted by the
City.

N. Owner has committed to develop, cause to be developed, or contribute to
significant infrastructure and other improvements, as well as Project features and fees, to
accommodate this Project and other anticipated regional growth and local projects in excess of
what the Owner could otherwise be legally required to provide (collectively, "Substantial Public
Benefits") The value of Substantial Public Benefits recited below is conservatively estimated to
be over $30 million, not counting the non-monetary benefit of eliminating the potential for
expanded gaming on the Property. The Substantial Public Benefits are as follows:

1, Owner has committed to provide, at no cost to City, a total of fifteen (15)
acres of parks and open space, including a publicly dedicated twelve (12) acre
parcel for a community park, and two (2) one-and-one-half.acre parcels of other
publicly dedicated parks. Assuming the eventual! development of 1,500 units, and
assuming the City's population factor from the 2000 Census of 2.48 residents per
unit, the total acreage devoted to publicly dedicated parks represents a minimum
of 7.56 acres more than the amount of parkland required to serve the Project
(more than double the City's standard requirement), and otherwise required for the
Project under current City Laws. In addition, Owner has committed to provide,
improve and maintain 2.85 acres of additional substantive open space, including a
view corridor, a town square adjacent to the new train station and enhanced

bicycle and pedestrian facilities within the development. The Owner has agreed to

296 of 460


--- page 297 ---
undertake the maintenance of all landscaping, medians and open space (other than
the public parks) in accordance with Section 5.9.3.

2. Owner has agreed to design and construct initial improvements to the new
community park, consisting of one regulation baseball field and one regulation
soccer field, utilizing grass turf, so as to provide immediately useable park land
upon dedication. The City may, at its election, forego the provision of the park
improvements by Owner and instead elect to receive a $1 million cash
contribution towards the development of the new community park improvements
in accordance with the City's ultimate design.

3. Owner has agreed to make a $250,000 contribution to be used for traffic
calming, which contribution is in excess of the City's required traffic mitigation
fee.

4. If after six (6) years from the Effective Date, the development has not
moved forward as described in and pursuant to Section 3.10 (Advance Payment of
Transportation Mitigation Fee) the Owner shall advance $4.6 million in
transportation mitigation fees or terminate this Agreement.

5. Owner shall, pursuant to Section 5.10 (Delaware Street), dedicate upon the
demand of the Public Works Director, at no cost to City, the right-of-way to
construct a Delaware Street connection through the Property, as needed by City,
even if required in advance of the timing provided for in the Project Approvals.

6, If after six (6) years from the Effective Date, the development has not

moved forward Owner shall, pursuant to Section 3.10, dedicate at no cost to City,

297 of 460


--- page 298 ---
the right-of-way to construct a Delaware Street connection through the Property,
as needed by City.

7. | The Owner shall contribute, in accordance with Section 5.15, $1,000,000
to the City to be used for public art and an additional $50,000 to City Arts of San
Mateo for the purpose of funding its campaign for the arts.

8. The Owner shall contribute, in accordance with Section 5.16, $100,000 to
the City to be used to improve or to reimburse the City for improvements to
Casanova Park in the Glendale Village neighborhood of the City, when and as
needed. |

9. The Owner shall contribute, in accordance with Section 5.17, $100,000 to
the Fiesta Gardens Homeowners Association to be used for planning, design and .
implementation of aquatic improvements in Fiesta Gardens common areas.

10.  Inorder to facilitate the development of additional below market rate
housing in the Project, the Owner shall dedicate, in accordance with Section
5.12(b), a net acre of land in a Mixed Use Block to be used by the City or its
designee for the construction of moderate, very iow or low-income housing. This
housing shall be provided in addition to the ten percent (10%) below market rate
housing being provided by the Owner as part of the Project. It is expected that the
acre of land to be dedicated in accordance with this Agreement, will provide
sufficient housing such that 15 percent of the total residential units to be
constructed in the Project will be affordable units, thus exceeding the provisions
of Measure H, Measure P and the requirements of the City's existing below

market rate housing program (Resolution 126-92) and adding 50 percent more ~

298 of 460


--- page 299 ---
affordable units and potentially including units that may be affordable to families
below moderate income. This affordable housing will substantially contribute to
meeting the City’s affordable housing objectives set forth in its General Plan
Housing Element.

11. Construction of the Project in accordance with the Specific Plan
Amendment will, by creating an economically viable alternative to racing
operations on the Property, eliminate the potential for future expansion of casino-
style gambling operations. Moreover, Owner agrees that until the earlier to occur
of the second anniversary of the date Owner applies for the Design Guidelines,
and the City's approval of Owner's application for the First Phase approvals,
Owner shall not permit the use of the Property for slot machines, video lottery
terminals, or other forms of expanded gaming at the track, other than wagering on
horse racing. Upon the City's approval of the First Phase applications, on
conditions satisfactory to Owner, the Owner shall (in accordance with Section
5.19), agree to record a covenant against the Property, restricting the use of the
Property so as to permanently prohibit the right to slot machines, video lottery
terminals, or other forms on expanded gaming at the track, other than wagering on
horse racing.

12. The Project, in accordance with the Specific Plan, is designed and will be
constructed to include state-of-the-art features designed to conserve energy,
minimize the environinental footprint, and promote the sustainable use of non-

renewable natural resources. Specifically, the Owner, in accordance with Section

299 of 460


--- page 300 ---
5.18, shall build a demonstration project composed of 30 market rate units
meeting a LEEDs silver standard, or its equivalent.

13. The Owner agrees, in accordance with Section 5.20, to pay a maximum of
$300,000 annually to the City to compensate for the loss of net City revenues
should Owner delay the commencement of development of the Property following
Owner's election to permanently discontinue racing on the Property.

0. In exchange for the Substantial Public Benefits of the Project, Owner desires to
receive assurances that City shall grant permits and approvals required for the development
of the Project over the Project's estimated 18 year development horizon, in accordance with
procedures provided by law and in this Agreement, and that Owner may proceed with the
Project in accordance with the Existing City Laws. In order to effectuate these purposes, the
Parties desire to enter into this Agreement.

P. City examined the environmental effects of both the Project and the San Mateo |
Rail Corridor Plan in an Environmental Impact Report (the "EIR") prepared and circulated
for public review pursuant to CEQA, and the City Council certified the EIR on April 18,
2005.

Q. After conducting a duly noticed public hearing pursuant to the Development
Agreement Resolution on July 26, 2005, that was continued to meetings on August 9th, 16th
and September 8th, on September 8, 2005, by a vote of 4-0, with one abstention, the Planning
Commission recommended that the City Council approve this Agreement, based on the
following findings and determinations: that this Agreement is consistent with the objectives,
policies, general land uses and programs specified in the General Plan; is compatible with the

uses authorized in and the regulations prescribed for the land use district in which the

10
300 of 460


--- page 301 ---
Property is located; is in conformity with public convenience, general welfare and good land
use practices; will not be detrimental to the health, safety and general welfare of the City or
the region surrounding the City; will not adversely affect the orderly development of
property or the preservation of property values within the City; and will promote and
encourage the development of the Project by providing a greater degree of requisite certainty
with respect thereto.

R. Thereafter, on October 17, 2005, the City Council held a duly noticed public
hearing on this Agreement pursuant to the Development Agreement Resolution. At a duly
noticed public meeting November 7, 2005 and after independent review and consideration,
the City Council made the same findings and determinations by its own independent
conclusion, as had the Planning Commission and confirmed that the Project was previously
analyzed by the certified EIR. The City Council also adopted certain mitigation measures for
the Proj ect, approved the Specific Plan Amendment, approved the proposed amendment to
the City's General Plan, and approved the Master Tentative Map for the Property. The City
Council also found this Agreement consistent with the City's General Plan and the Specific
Plan. On that same date, the City Council approved this Agreement by first reading of

006 ., the City Council approved

Ordinance No. 2005-17

this Agreement by second reading of Ordinance 2005-17 °~.. Ordinance No.

2005-17. became effective on November 28 2005.
NOW, THEREFORE, pursuant to the authority contained in Government Code Sections
65864-65869.5, the Development Agreement Resolution and in consideration of the mutual

covenants and promises of the Parties herein contained, the Parties agree as follows:

11
301 of 460


--- page 302 ---
{. Definitions. Each reference in this Agreement to any of the following terms shall
have the meaning set forth below for each such term. Certain other terms shall have the meaning

set forth for such term in this Agreement.

1.1. Adoption Date. Noven ber 21, 2005 (the date the City
Council adopted the Enacting Ordinance.)

1.2. Application Date. June 24, 2003 (the date City received Owner's
application for the Project Approvals).

1.3. Approvals. Any and all permits or approvals (including conditions
of approval imposed in connection therewith) of any kind or character necessary or appropriate
under the City Laws to confer the requisite lawful right on Owner to develop the Project,
including, but not limited to, subdivision maps, site plan and architecture review, building
permits, use permits, variances, site clearance, grading plans and permits, certificates of
occupancy, cooperative agreements with the JPB, municipal financing (including Mello-Roos
bonds), abandonment of streets or rights-of-way, and right-of-way transfers.

1.4, Assignment Agreement. Defined in Section 10.3.

1.5, Block. A portion of the Project Area, generally bordered by public
right of way or property lines, as shown in the Development Framework Plan of the Specific
Plan, and delineated as a Station block, Mixed Use block or Residential block.

1.6. BMR Units. Defined in Section 5.12.

1.7. CC&Rs. Covenants, conditions and restrictions recorded in the

Official Records of San Mateo County on all or any portion of the Property, imposing covenants
running with the land, equitable servitudes and/or easements governing the design, maintenance,

operation, access and other matters in connection with the real property affected by the CC&Rs.

12
302 of 460


--- page 303 ---
1.8, CEQA. The California Environmental Quality Act (Public
Resources Code §§ 21000, et seq.) and the Guidelines thereunder (Title 14, Cal. Code Regs.

§ 15000, et seg.).

1.9. CFD. Defined in Section 5.11.

1.10. City-Wide. Any City Laws generally applicable to a development
or uses of one or more kinds, wherever the same may be located in City.

1.11. City Law(s). The ordinances, resolutions, codes, rules, regulations
and official policies of City, governing the permitted uses of land, density, design, improvement
and construction standards and specifications applicable to the development of the Property and
property upon which required off site Public Improvements will be constructed. Specifically, but
without limiting the generality of the foregoing, City Laws shall include the City's General Plan,
the Specific Plan, the City's zoning ordinance and the City's subdivision ordinance.

1.12. City Manager. The City Manager or his or her designee.

1.13. Community Park. Defined in Section 5.9.1.

1.14. Compensatory Right-of Way. Defined in Section 3.10.

1.15. CPI. The greater of the Engineering News Record Construction
Cost Index or the consumer price index for San Francisco, California (urban wage earners) most
recently published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (or such other substitute index as the parties
shall mutually agree).

1.16. CPI Factor. The difference between the CPI for the year in
question, and the CPI for the previous year. |

1.17. Design Guidelines. The policies, objectives, rules, illustrations and

details consistent with the Specific Plan Amendment, and adopted in accordance with the

13

303 of 460


--- page 304 ---
Specific Plan Amendment, which govern the design (including bulk, setbacks, materials,
landscaping and parking) of structures and features to be developed in the Property. -

1.18. Development Agreement Resolution. Resolution 120 (1990)
entitled "Establishing Procedures and Requirements for the Consideration of Development
Agreements" adopted by the City Council of the City of San Mateo on October 15, 1990.

1.19. Director. The Director shall mean the Director of Community
Development for the City of San Mateo.

1.20. Effective Date. The later of (i) the date the Enacting Ordinance
takes effect pursuant to City ordinances and charter; or (ii) if the Enacting Ordinance is subject to
a valid referendum proceeding pursuant to Elections Code § 3500, et seq., the date the Enacting
Ordinance is upheld pursuant to such referendum proceeding.

1.21. EIR. Defined in Recital P above.

1.22. | Election to Discontinue Racing. The date when there have been no
horseracing activities conducted on the Property because of Owner's voluntary decision
not to pursue an allocation of racing dates for racing activities on the Property, it being
expressly understood that (a) a failure to obtain substantially all of the historic allocation
of racing dates from the horse racing board, or (b) the temporary cessation of racing
activities to accommodate the rehabilitation, reconstruction or renovation of the track
facilities shall not be considered an Election to Discontinue Racing. The date of the
Election to Discontinue Racing shall be April 1 of the calendar year following the year
when there have been no horseracing activities conducted on the Property because of
Owner's voluntary decision not to pursue an allocation of racing dates for racing activities

on the Property, except as provided in subsection (a) or (b) of this Section 1.22.

14
304 of 460


--- page 305 ---
1.23. Enacting Ordinance. Ordinance No. 2005’ =, enacted by

the City Council on November 21, 200.°, approving this Agreement.

1,24. Event of Default, Defined in Section 8.1.
1.25. Exactions. All exactions, costs, fees, in-lieu fees or payments,
| charges, assessments, dedications or other monetary or non-monetary requirement charged or
imposed by City or by City through an assessment district (or similar entity) in connection with
the development of, construction on, or use of real property, including but not limited to
transportation improvement fees, child care in-lieu fees, art fees, affordable housing fees,
dedication or reservation requirements, facility fees, sewer fees, water connection fees,
obligations for on- or off-site improvements or construction requirements for Public
Improvements, services or other conditions for approval called for in connection with the
development of or construction of the Project under the Existing City Laws, whether such
exactions constitute Public Improvements, mitigation measures in connection with
environmental review of the Project Approvals, or impositions made under applicable City Laws
or in order to make an Approval consistent with applicable City Laws. Exactions shall not |
include Processing Fees.

1.26. Existing City Laws. The City Laws in effect as of the Adoption
Date.

1.27. First Phase. Defined in Section 3.2.3.

1.28. General Plan. The General Plan for the City, entitled "Visions
2005," adopted by the City Council on July 16, 1990, and subsequently amended, as in effect as

of the Adoption Date.

15
305 of 460


--- page 306 ---
1.29. General Plan Amendment. The General Plan amendments
approved by the City Council on June 6, 2005, by Resolution No. 67-(2005) and November 7,
2005, by Resolution No111 -(2005). |

| 1 30. JPB. The Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board.

1.31. Law(s). The laws of the State of California, the Constitution of the
United States and any codes, statutes or mandates in any court decision, state or federal,
thereunder.

1.32. Map Approvals. The Master Tentative Map Approval and the
Project Tentative Map Approval(s).

1.33. Master Tentative Map. The tentative tract map no?'/@approved by
the City Council on November 7, 2005, by Resolution111-(2005) that subdivides the Property
into two parcels consistent with the neighborhood boundaries described in the Specific Plan
Amendment. Such map approval shall be called the "Master Tentative Map Approval."

1.34. Mitigation Measures. The mitigation measures applicable to the
Project developed as part of the EIR process and required to be implemented by Owner, and
adopted as part of the Project Approvals and implemented through the MMRP.

1.35. MMRP. The Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Plan adopted

as part of the Project Approvals, as it applies to the Project, adopted by the City Council on

07, 2005 ., by Resolution No. 111.

1.36. Mortgage. A mortgage or deed of trust, or other transaction, in
which the Property, or a portion thereof or an interest therein, or any improvements thereon, is
conveyed or pledged as security, contracted in good faith and for fair value, or a sale and

leaseback arrangement in which the Property, or a portion thereof or an interest therein, or

16

306 of 460


--- page 307 ---
improvements thereon, is sold and leased back concurrently therewith in good faith and for fair
value.

1.37. Mortgagee. The holder of the beneficial interest under a Mortgage,
or the owner of the Property, or interest therein, under a Mortgage.

| 1.38. Owner, Defined in the opening paragraph of this Agreement.

1.39. Party. City and Owner, and their respective transferees,
determined as of the time in question, and collectively they shall be called the "Parties."

1.40. Person. An individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation,
trust, governmental agency, administrative tribunal or other form of business or legal entity.

1.41. Processing Fee. A fee imposed by a public entity payable upon the
submission of an application for a permit or approval, which covers only the estimated actual
costs to the public entity of processing that application, and is not an Exaction, and is not only

applicable to the Project.

1.42. Project. Defined in Recital I.

1.43. Project Approvals. The following Approvals for the Proj ect
existing, obtained or enacted by City as of the date hereof, as the same may be updated, amended
or modified from time to time upon application of Owner:

(i) the EIR and MMRP;

(ii) the General Plan Amendment;

(iii) the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan
adopted on June 6, 2005, by Resolution No. 66 (2005);

(iv) the Specific Plan; and

(v) the Master Tentative Map Approval.

17
307 of 460


--- page 308 ---
1.44. Property. The real property described in Exhibit A and shown on
Exhibit B on which Owner intends to develop the Project.

1.45. Project Tentative Map Approval. Any tentative tract map
approved by the City Planning Commission or the City Council at any time in the future, which
subdivides all or a portion of the Master Tentative Map into Blocks as shown in the
Development Framework Pian of the Specific Plan. Each such map shall be called an "Project
Tentative Map."

1.46. Public Improvements. The lands and facilities, both on- and off-
site, to be improved and constructed, and dedicated, as provided by the Project Approvals and
this Agreement. Public Improvements include all right-of-way improvements, streets and roads
within the Property; all utilities (such as gas, electricity, cable television, water, sewer and storm
drainage); pedestrian and bicycle paths and trails; parks; the off-site public improvements; the
fair share mitigation measures; and all other improvements and facilities required or called for by
the Mitigation Measures. |

1.47. SPAR. Site plan and architectural review by City, in accordance
with Existing City Laws.

1.48. Specific Plan. Defined in Recital F.

1.49. Specific Plan Amendment. Defined in Recital I.

1.50. Substantial Public Benefits. Defined in Recital N. |

1.51. Term, The term of this Agreement, commencing on the later to
occur of (i) the Effective Date or (ii) if a legal proceeding is initiated challenging the validity of
the Enacting Ordinance, the MMRP, the EIR, the General Plan Amendment, the Specific Plan

Amendment or other Project Approval, this Agreement, or the Master Tentative Map Approval,

18
308 of 460


--- page 309 ---
the date such legal proceeding is finally concluded upholding the Enacting Ordinance or other
relevant approval, and terminating eighteen (18) years thereafter, unless sooner Terminated as
provided in this Agreement. For purposes hereof, a legal proceeding shall be deemed "finally
concluded" upon the date of the entry of a final, non-appealable order or judgment in such
proceeding upholding the validity of the Enacting Ordinance or other Project Approval.

1.52. Terminate. The expiration of the Term of this Agreement, whether
by the passage of time or by any earlier occurrence pursuant to any provision of this Agreement.
For purposes hereof, "Terminate" includes any grammatical variant thereof, including
"Termination," "Terminated," and "Terminating."

1.53. Transferred Property. Defined in Section 10.1.

1.54. Trip Budget. Defined in Section 10.4.

2. Effective Date; Term.

2.1. Effective Date. This Agreement shall be dated and the-rights,
duties and obligations of the Parties hereunder shall be effective as of the Effective Date (as
defined in Section 1.20). Not later than ten (10) days after the Adoption Date, City and Owner
shall execute and acknowledge this Agreement, and promptly thereafter the City Clerk shall
cause this Agreement to be recorded in the Official Records of the County of San Mateo, State of
California.

2.2. Expiration of Term. Upon expiration of the Term (as defined in
Section 1:51), this Agreement and all of the rights, duties and obligations of the Parties
hereunder shall Terminate and be of no further force or effect. Upon expiration of the Term,
Owner shall thereafter comply with the provisions of all City Laws then in effect or subsequently

adopted with respect to the Property and/or the Project, except that expiration of the Term

19
309 of 460


--- page 310 ---
(including as a result of Termination of this Agreement) shall not affect any right vested under
Laws (absent this Agreement), or other rights arising from Approvals granted by City for
development of all or any portion of the Project.

3. General Development of the Project.

3.1. Project. Owner shall have the vested right to develop the Project
on the Property in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Project
Approvals, and the Approvals as the same may be amended from time to time upon application
of Owner; and City shall have the right to control development of the Property in accordance
with the provisions of this Agreement. Except as otherwise specified in this Agreement, the
Project Approvals, the Approvals and the Existing City Laws shall control the overall design,
development and construction of the Project, and all improvements and appurtenances in
connection therewith, including, without limitation, the permitted uses on the Property, the
density and intensity of use, the maximum height and size of buildings, the number of allowable
parking spaces and all Mitigation Measures required in order to minimize or eliminate material
adverse environmental impacts of the Proj ect, All building heights (calculated according to City
Law) shall be fifty-five (55) feet or less. By stating that the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, the Project Approvals, the Approvals and the Existing City Laws shall control the
overall design, development and construction of the Project, this Agreement is consistent with
the requirements of California Government Code Section 65865.2 (requiring development
agreements to state permitted uses of the property, the density or intensity of use, the maximum
height and size of proposed buildings, and provisions for reservation or dedication of land for
public purposes). In the event of any inconsistency between the Specific Plan and this

Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern and control.

20
310 of 460


--- page 311 ---
3.2. Milestones: Processing of Design Guidelines and Initial SPAR; |
First Phase; Timing of Dedications and Contributions. To the extent that the Project is

developed in phases, the Parties acknowledge that presently Owner cannot predict the timing or
sequence of any such Project phasing. Owner therefore shall have the right to develop the
Project in phases in such order and at such times as Owner deems appropriate within the exercise
of its subjective business judgment and the provisions of this Agreement and the Project
Approvals. Nonetheless, Developer agrees to meet the following performance milestones
contained in this Section 3.2.: -

3.2.1. Presentation of Draft Design Guidelines,

Owner agrees to meet with City staff and present a draft of proposed Design Guidelines
for discussion within six (6) months of the Effective Date.

3.2.2. Submission of Design Guidelines.

Owner agrees to submit an application for approval of Design Guidelines in accordance
with the Specific Plan, no later than one (1) year from the Effective Date.

3.2.3. Application for First Phase.

Owner agrees to submit its first planning applications for the first portion of anticipated
development, which shall be a Site Development Permit application for the framework streets as
shown in the Specific Plan Amendment, and a SPAR for development of at least one Block (the
"First Phase"), no later than one (1) year from the date the City's approval of the Design
Guidelines is final, and any legal proceedings concerning the validity of the approval are "finally

concluded" as defined in Section 1.51.

3.2.4. SPAR for Block Along Delaware.

21
311 of 460


--- page 312 ---
Owner agrees to submit an application for a SPAR fora block along Delaware Avenue
| within three months of a Caltrain's multi-modal train station being completed within the Specific
Plan area.
3.2.5. Dedication of Community Park.

Owner agrees to irrevocably offer for dedication approximately 12 acres of land adjacent
to Saratoga Drive as a community park within two (2) years of the date of Owner's Election to
Discontinue Racing, pursuant to Section 5.9.1 of this Agreement.

3.2.6. Dedication of Linear Park and Neighborhood Park.

Owner agrees to irrevocably offer for dedication the Linear Park and Neighborhood Park
(described in greater detail at Section 5.9.2) prior to approval of the SPAR for the first Block of
development adjacent to the Linear Park or the Neighborhood Park, respectively.

3.2.7. Dedication of Delaware Avenue Right of Way.

Owner agrees to irrevocably dedicate the right-of-way required to accommodate a
temporary two-lane North-South Delaware pursuant to conditions further detailed in Section 5.10
of this Agreement. Owner also agrees to irrevocably offer to dedicate the right-of-way required
to accommodate a two-lane North-South Delaware connection, adjacent to the JPB right-of-way,
in the event Owner terminates Agreement as further detailed in Section 3.10 of this Agreement.

3.2.8. Traffic Calming Contribution.

Owner agrees to contribute $250,000 for neighborhood traffic calming prior to the
issuance of the first building permit following the seventh (7th) anniversary of the Effective Date
pursuant to Section 5.13 of this Agreement. |

3.2.9. Limitation,

22
312 of 460


--- page 313 ---
Notwithstanding the foregoing, or anything else in this Agreement to the contrary, by
entering into this Agreement, Owner shall not be obligated to develop the Property.

3.3. Specific Plan. The Specific Plan adopted by the City in approving
this Project and Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit C. To the extent that Exhibit C is
inconsistent with the Specific Plan as amended from time to time, the Specific Plan then in effect
shall prevail. The Specific Plan may be amended from time to time upon application of Owner
and approval of the City without amending this Agreement, unless the proposed amendment to
the Specific Plan is inconsistent with an express provision of this Agreement, in which case this
Agreement shall also be amended.

3.4. Subseguent Projects. Owner is concerned that City may approve
other projects that place a burden on City's infrastructure without considering the prior approval
of the Project. Therefore, City agrees that so long as Owner submits its First Phase applications,
and commences Project development within the Term, Owner's right to build out and occupy all
buildings in the Project shall not be diminished despite the burden of future development upon
public facilities including, without limitation, roads, water systems, roadways, sanitary sewers,
storm sewers, utilities, traffic signals, curb gutters, sidewalks, parks, amenities, recreation areas,
landscaping, landfill, and other off-site improvements which are of benefit to the Project and
other properties in the area.

3.5. Applicable Laws and Standards. Except as otherwise provided in
this Agreement, the City Laws and conditions of approval governing permitted uses on the
Property, density, height, design, occupancy and specifications applicable to the Project shall be
the Existing City Laws (regardless of any future changes in the same made by City) and the

conditions of approval set forth in this Agreement and the Project Approvals. City hereby agrees

23
313 of 460


--- page 314 ---
aa

that the Project can be built and occupied on the Property pursuant to the Existing City Laws and
conditions of approval and in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Specific
Plan, provided that City may apply and enforce the construction, fire and building codes then in
effect in City at the time Owner applies for building permits for the Project.

3.6. Other Governmental Permits, Owner shall apply for such other
permits and approvals as may be required from other governmental or quasi-governmental
agencies having jurisdiction over the Project as may be required for the development of, or
provision of services to, the Project (including but not limited to any permits or approvals
required from the California Department of Transportation and/or the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers in relation to any offsite sewer work). City shall cooperate with Owner in its
endeavors to obtain such permits and approvals and, from time to time at the request of Owner,
shall attempt with due diligence and in good faith to enter into binding agreements with any such
entity in order to assure the availability of such permits and approvals or services. To the extent
allowed by Law, Owner shall be a party or third party beneficiary to any such agreement entitled
to enforce the rights of Owner or City thereunder or the duties and obligations of the Parties
thereto. | |

3.7. Processing Fee. City may charge a Processing Fee for a permit or
approval submitted by Owner, as the Processing Fee is in effect at the time of Owner's
application for that permit or approval.

3.8. No Further Exactions. Except as provided in this Section 3.8 , -
Section 3.9 (Transportation Mitigation Fee) and Section 3.10 (Advance Payment of
Transportation Mitigation Fee), City shall not impose any further or additional Exactions on the

development of the Project, whether through the exercise of the police power, the taxing power,

24
314 of 460


--- page 315 ---
design review or any other means, other than those set forth in the Project Approvals, the.
Mitigation Measures, the Existing City Laws and this Agreement. By way of clarification, the
City's art fee shall not apply to the Project, but the childcare fee shall apply to development in the
Project (provided that the City shall grant a credit against any applicable fee for the costs of
childcare facilities provided within the Project). The amount of fees and monetary Exactions
applicable to the Project as of the Effective Date are set forth in Exhibit D. Up to the sixth (6th)
anniversary of the Effective Date, monetary Exactions applicable to the Project shall remain as in
effect at the same amount or rate as of the Effective Date as specified in Exhibit D, provided that
from and after the sixth (6th) anniversary of the Effective Date and each year thereafter,
monetary Exactions applicable to the Project shall be calculated by multiplying the amount or
rate in effect as of the Effective Date by the CPI Factor. The Exactions applicable to the Project
as provided in the Specific Plan and this Agreement shall not be modified or renegotiated by City
as aresult of any amendment to the Specific Plan, the Project Approvals, the Approvals, or this
Agreement which does not materially increase the density or intensity of development. Nothing
in this Agreement is intended to prohibit City from exercising its taxing power in a manner
which will not increase any fee or tax applicable to the Project. The Parties acknowledge that the
provisions contained in this Section 3.8 are intended to implement the intent of the Parties that
Owner have the right to develop the Project pursuant to specified and known criteria and rules,
and that City receive the benefits which will be conferred as a result of such development
without abridging the right of City to act in accordance with its powers, duties and obligations.

3.9. Transportation Mitigation Fee. At the time of issuance of building
permits for development on the Property, Owner shall pay City's fair share transportation

mitigation fee with respect to the portion of the Project for which building permits are sought.

25
315 of 460


--- page 316 ---
The parties understand that City will update the "General Plan Traffic Mitigation Fee Program"
to reflect City's portion of the costs of the grade separations to be constructed by the JPB at 28th
Avenue and 31st Avenue to the approximate amount specified on Exhibit D (‘"Transportation
Mitigation Fee Update"). Up to the sixth (6th) anniversary of the Effective Date, the
transportation mitigation fee applicable to the Project shall remain as in effect at the same
amount or rate as of the Effective Date, or if the Transportation Mitigation Fee Update has
occurred before the sixth (6") anniversary of the Effective Date, as revised as of the date of the
Transportation Mitigation Fee Update, provided that from and after the sixth (6th) anniversary of
the Effective Date and each year thereafter, the transportation mitigation fee shall be calculated
by multiplying the amount or rate in effect as of the Effective Date (or the Transportation
Mitigation Fee Update, as the case may be) by the CPI Factor.

3.10. | Advance Payment of Transportation Mitigation Fee; Consideration

for Early Termination.

(a) If, at any time on or after the sixth (6th) anniversary of the Effective Date, the

following three conditions are satisfied:

(i) the grade separations at 28th Avenue and 31st Avenue are open to traffic,

(ii) | the City has approved Owner's applications for Design Guidelines as well

as Owner's applications for the First Phase, and

(ii) Owner has not demolished the grandstand improvements on the Property,

or has otherwise not ceased all racing and betting operations on the Property,
then either:

(A) Owner shall make an advance payment to City of four million, six

hundred thousand dollars ($4.6 million) in transportation mitigation fees (which

26
316 of 460


--- page 317 ---
are to be applied against any future transportation mitigation fees payable for the
Project) within thirty (30) days of the City providing written notice to Owner of
the occurrence of the three conditions specified above, or

(B) — if (x) Owner does not make such payment within thirty (30) days of such
notice, and (y) Owner has not recorded any final map with respect to the Property,
other than the final map recorded with respect to the Master Tentative Map, then |
| _ this Agreement shall Terminate and as consideration for such Termination, Owner
shall irrevocably offer to dedicate the right-of-way required to accommodate a
two-lane North-South Delaware connection, adjacent to the JPB right-of-way
("Compensatory Right-of-Way"), designed in a manner to be compatible with the
then existing uses on the Property. If Owner develops the Property prior to the
City accepting and improving the Compensatory Right-of-Way, City shall
quitclaim or reconvey to Owner the Compensatory Right-of-Way and Owner shall
improve Delaware Street along the alignment contemplated by the Specific Plan
Amendment. If this Agreement Terminates pursuant to this Section 3.10,
notwithstanding any other provision of City Law or Law or this Agreement, the
term.of any unexpired Project Tentative Map or Future Map (as defined in
section 4.2) shall expire. If the conditions of this Section 3.10(a)(-iii) are
satisfied, and the Owner has recorded any final map with respect to the Property
(or any portion thereof), other than the final map recorded with respect to the
Master Tentative Map, then Owner must make the payment specified in

subsection 3.10(A), above, and the Agreement shall not Terminate.

27
317 of 460


--- page 318 ---
(b) Owner shall notify City as to its utilization of any advance transportation |
mitigation fees at the time of applying for a SPAR.

3.11. Review and Processing of City Approvals. In connection with any
approval, City shall accept applications for processing and review, and exercise City's discretion
to take action, in a good faith manner which is as expeditious as administratively possible and
which complies with and is consistent with the Project Approvals and this Agreement, and City
shall approve any application for an approval (including but not limited to an application for
Design Guidelines) which so complies and is so consistent with the Project Approvals and this
Agreement. Owner recognizes that City retains discretion with respect to its approval of the
Project's Design Guidelines, SPAR process, and consistency with the Specific Plan, provided
that City shall exercise City's discretion in a manner which will not prevent the development of
the Project for the uses, and with the heights, densities and intensities specified in the Project
Approvals and this Agreement or with the rate of development, if any, specified in the Project
Approvals. Owner, in a timely manner, shall provide City with all fees, charges, documents,
applications, plans and other information necessary for City to carry out its obligations and cause
its planners, engineers and all other consultants to submit in a timely manner all necessary
materials and documents. All applications for Approvals shall be filed in the manner required
under the applicable City Laws, except that such applications shall contain the caption
"SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS PHASE Il DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT" on the
front sheet of such applications (provided that a failure to include such caption shall not have any
legal effect). The Parties expressly intend to cooperate with one another and diligently work to
implement all land use and building approvals for development of the Project in accordance with

the Project Approvals.

28
318 of 460


--- page 319 ---
3.12. Extension of Approvals. Upon approval of any Project Tentative
Map and the First Phase approvals, the term of each shall be extended until the Termination of
this Agreement notwithstanding any other City Law. Upon the approval of any other subdivision
map (other than the Master Tentative Map), SPAR, variance or use permit, the term of such
subdivision map (other than the Master Tentative Map), SPAR, variance or use permit shall
extend for five (5) years from the date of approval, provided that approvals obtained in the last
five (5) years of the Term shall extend for the greater of (a) the Term of the Agreement or (b) the
maximum applicable time provided for under City Law.

3.13. Interim Uses.

The Project Approvals do and will provide a mechanism which will ensure that the
Property shall be maintained in an aesthetically pleasing manner at a reasonable economic
expense to Owner on an interim basis prior to and during the development of the Project.

4. Subdivision of Property.

4.1, Master Tentative Map. City approved the Master Tentative Map
as of the date hereof. The Master Tentative Map does not and shall not permit any development
of the Property (including issuance of building or demolition permits) unless and until the City
has granted the following Approvals: (a) the Design Guidelines, (b) the First Phase approvals,
and (c) the design and bonding for the Public Improvements to be constructed with the First
Phase of the Project. The two parcels of the Master Tentative Map shall be held under a single
ownership pursuant to a lot tie agreement to be recorded with the San Mateo County recorder,
and such lot tie agreement shall remain in effect unless and until the Approvals described in the
preceding sentence have been granted, and the grandstand and other existing on-site

improvements have been demolished. Developer agrees if the First Phase of development has

29
319 of 460


--- page 320 ---
not commenced prior to the expiration or earlier Termination of the Term, the two parcels
created by the Master Tentative Map shall be merged.

4,2, Project and Future Tentative Maps. Owner shall have the right,
from time to time or at any time, to apply for one (1) or more Project Tentative Maps,
subdividing the Property into Blocks, as may be necessary in order to develop, lease or finance
- any portion of the Property in connection with development of the Project consistent with the
density, Block and parcel sizes set forth in the Specific Plan. Each Block may be subdivided
further into individual parcels through one or more future tentative maps ("Future Tentative
Maps"). City may grant tentative approval of a Project Tentative Map or Future Tentative Map,
but shall not grant final approval of any final Project Tentative Map, or Future Tentative Map
before the pre-conditions for development (a, b, and c) in Section 4.1 (Master Tentative Map)
have been satisfied.

4.3. Government Code Section 66473.7. Pursuant to Government Code
section 65867.5, City has determined that this Agreement is not subject to the provisions of
Government Code Section 65867.5 because the Master Tentative Map includes only two parcels,
and in any event, the Master Tentative Map and any Project Tentative Maps are exempt from the
requirements of Government Code section 66473.7, concerning water verifications, because the
Project is a residential project proposed on a site within an urbanized area and has previously
been developed for urban uses, and the immediate contiguous properties surrounding the Project
site are, and previously have been, developed for urban uses, all within the meaning of

Government Code section 66473.7(i).

30

320 of 460


--- page 321 ---
5. Specific Criteria Applicable To Development Of The Project.
5.1. Application of New City Laws. Nothing herein shall prevent City

from applying to the Property:

(a) new City Laws which do not conflict with this Agreement, the Project
Approvals, the Approvals and Existing City Laws, as described in Section 5.2
(Conflicting Laws) below;

(b) new City Laws which are specifically mandated or required by changes in
State or Federal Laws:

(c) City Laws that are applicable to the following and are in effect at the time
Owner submits an application for a building permit for the Project:

(i) procedural requirements for building and building occupancy
permit application, submittal and issuance;

(ii) | construction standards pursuant to all Uniform Building Codes
incorporated by the San Mateo Municipal Code,

(iii) engineering specifications for construction of any public
improvements such as curbs, gutters and sidewalks, to the extent they do not
conflict with the Project Approvals or Approvals;

(iv) building security requirements adopted pursuant to Title 23 of the
San Mateo Municipal Code;

(v) any requirements applicable upon issuance of a building permit for
which City acts as an administering agent for another governing agency; and

(vi) any sustainability mandates that are uniformly applied as a matter

of adopted City requirements to all new construction of the type in question (i.e.

31
321 of 460


--- page 322 ---
standards applicable to all commercial construction in the City shall apply to
commercial development in the Project and standards applicable to all residential
construction in the City shall apply to residential development in the Project).

5.2. Conflicting Laws. For purposes of Section 5.1 above (Application
of New City Laws), any action or proceeding of the City (whether enacted by the legislative
body or the electorate) that has any of the following effects on the Project shall be considered in
conflict with this Agreement and the Existing City Laws:

(a) limiting or reducing the density or intensity of all or any part of the
Proj ect, or otherwise requiring any reduction in the square footage or total number of —
developable blocks, residential units or other improvements;

(b) limiting the timing or phasing of the Project in any manner
inconsistent with this Agreement or the Project Approvals;

(c) limiting the location of structures, grading, streets or other
improvements on the Property in a manner that is inconsistent with or more restrictive
than the limitations included in the Project Approvals or this Agreement; or

(d) applying to the Project or the Property any law, regulation, or rule
otherwise allowed by this Agreement which is not uniformly applied on a City-Wide
basis to all substantially similar types of development projects or project sites in the City.

The above list of actions is not intended to be comprehensive, but is illustrative of
the types of actions that would conflict with this Agreement and the Existing City Laws.

5.3. Timing, Without limiting the foregoing, no moratorium or similar
limitation affecting building permits or other land use entitlements, or the rate, timing or

' sequencing thereof shall apply to the Project. This Agreement shall not preclude the application

32
322 of 460


--- page 323 ---
to the Project of changes in City Laws, to the extent that such changes are specifically required to
be applied to developments such as this Project by changes in applicable Laws.

5.4, Subsequent Environmental Review. The provisions of CEQA, as
they may be amended from time to time, shall apply to any subsequent Approval for the Project.
The Parties acknowledge, however, that the EIR contains a thoroughgoing analysis of the Project
and Project alternatives and specifies the feasible Mitigation Measures available to eliminate or
reduce to an acceptable level adverse environmental impacts of the Project, and acknowledge
that the City Council issued a statement of overriding considerations in connection with the
Project Approvals, pursuant to 14 California Code of Regulations (CEQA Guidelines)

Section 15093. The EIR provides an adequate database and environmental analysis for the
decision to proceed with the Project embodied in the Project Approvals and this Agreement, and
subsequent development of the Project during the Term of this Agreement. The Mitigation
Measures imposed are those appropriate for the implementation of proper planning goals and
objectives and the formulation of Project development guidelines and conditions of approval.
For these reasons, no EJR shall be required by City for any subsequent Approvals implementing
the Project unless the provisions of Public Resources Code § 21 166 apply.

5.5. Easements: Improvements; Abandonments. City shall reasonably
cooperate with Owner in connection with any arrangements for abandoning existing utility or
other easements and facilities and the relocation thereof or creation of any new easements within
the Property necessary or appropriate in connection with the development of the Project; and if
any such easement is owned by City or an agency of City, City or such agency shall, at the
request of Owner, take such action and execute such documents as may be reasonably necessary

to abandon existing easements and relocate them, as necessary or appropriate in connection with

33
323 of 460


--- page 324 ---
the development of the Project in accordance with the Project ‘Approvals. All improvements
required as Exactions pursuant to the-Project Approvals shall be constructed by Owner congruent
with each phase of the Project, as such improvements relate thereto and are necessary with
respect to such phase of the Project development.

5.6. Design of On-Site and Off-Site Improvements. Development of
the Property shall be subject to SPAR and other future City review as provided by the Project
Approvals. The Project Approvals, and all improvement plans prepared in accordance with the
Project Approvals, shall govern the design and scope of all on-site and off-site improvements to
be constructed on or benefiting the Property, including all street widths and dedications.

5.7, Single Integrated Development. City and Owner acknowledge that
the Project is and shall be considered a single integrated development project, and that the

dedications for Public Improvements are an integral part of the Project.

5.8. Public Improvements. Owner shall undertake the design,
development and installation of, and dedicate to City (or a transferee specified by City), or the
applicable responsible agency, the Public Improvements required to be constructed by Owner.
pursuant to the Project Approvals, in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.8. The
Public Improvements shall be designed and constructed, and shall contain those improvements
and facilities specified in the Project Approvals and other City Laws, and/or as required by
responsible agencies having jurisdiction. The City Manager shall have the right to impose
further implementing conditions in connection with any Approval in order to insure compliance
with the provisions of this Section 5.8 and the other applicable provisions of this Agreement with
respect to the provision of the Public Improvements, including the timing thereof and

relationship to development of the Project, provided that such conditions are not inconsistent

34
324 of 460


--- page 325 ---
with the Project. Approvals or this Agreement and do not prevent the development of the Project
for the uses, and with the heights, densities and intensities specified in the Project Approvals and
this Agreement. Owner shall obtain such permits and approvals (including review of design and
construction plans) from all responsible agencies having jurisdiction over the Public
Improvements as applicable, and shall provide evidence reasonably satisfactory to City of
attainment of all such permits and approvals prior to the commencement of construction or
installation of any affected Public Improvements. During the SPAR process, City shall identify
those Public Improvements (or portion thereof) associated with the portion of development
approved in the SPAR. Once completed in accordance with City Law, City will accept those
Public Improvements. XC
5.8.1. Phasing. The Parties acknowledge that (i) the need for
infrastructure is related to the actual construction of occupied areas and (ii) the timing of
infrastructure expenditures has significant economic effect. Therefore the Project Approvals
include conditions of approval related to phasing, linking infrastructure improvements (both on-
and off-site) with development of occupied areas as described in the Proj ect Approvals. The
City Manager shall be authorized to implement and modify the phasing conditions, as may be
mutually agreed to by Owner, so as to implement the intention of this Section 5.8.1.
5.8.2. Stormwater. The Project Approvals provide for a 4-acre
dry storage area in the area designated as the Community Park. After dedication of the
| Community Park, City shall maintain the dry storage area in accordance with covenants,
conditions and restrictions ("CC&Rs") to be recorded with the County recorder. The CC&Rs are
to be mutually agreed upon by the Parties, and provide for the maintenance and operation

performance standards necessary for the functioning of the dry storage areas in accordance with

35 |
325 of 460


--- page 326 ---
the Project Approvals. Except as otherwise required by the Regional Water Quality Control
Board, City agrees to honor and perform any obligations imposed upon it under the CC&Rs. In
addition, the Parties acknowledge that a wet storage area shall be provided through the creation
of a stormwater retention pond in the Community Park.

5.8.3. Rough Grading. Owner shall be responsible for the rough
grading of the site and location for each Public Improvement located within the Property
(including the dry storage area, but not the remainder of the 12-acre Community Park if the City
has elected to take the cash payment for park improvements specified in Section 5.9.1 below),
and for the rough grading of any off-site location for a Public Improvement, if Owner is
obligated under the Project Approvals to construct such Public Improvements at such off-site
location.

5.8.4. Improvement Agreements and Security. Owner shall enter

into an improvement agreement providing for the design, construction and installation of any
Public Improvements to be made, constructed or installed as required under the Project |
Approvals. Owner shall post security for the performance of Owner's obligations under each
such improvement agreement in the amount of the construction cost for each Public
Improvement as determined by City (or responsible agency, if applicable) under the applicable
City Law (or responsible agency regulations).

5.8.5. Off-site Public Improvements.

Subject to the Project Approvals, Owner shall design, construct
and install, or cause the design, construction and installation of, all off-site Public Improvements.

Owner shall be responsible for obtaining such approvals, permits and other agreements, and

36
326 of 460


--- page 327 ---
entering into such contractual arrangements,.as may be necessary or appropriate to construct the
off-site Public Improvements.

5.9. Parks and Open Space. Owner shall provide 15 acres of land for
public parks as specified in the Project Approvals, regardless of the number of residential units
ultimately constructed at build-out. No additional park fees (in-lieu or otherwise) shall be
payable with respect to the Project. The park land to be dedicated pursuant to the Proj ect
Approvals shall constitute full pre-payment and satisfaction of any park fees for the Project.

5.9.1. Timing of Dedication and Interim Improvements

Within two (2) years after Owner's Election to Discontinue Racing, Owner shall
irrevocably offer to dedicate approximately 12 acres of land adjacent to Saratoga Drive as a
community park ("Community Park"). Prior to acceptance of the offer to dedicate the
Community Park, Owner may use the site of the Community Park for staging of construction
activities. The timing for the dedication of the parks shall be as specified in the Project
Approvals. Programming for the Community Park shall be determined by the City. However, as
additional consideration for this Agreement, the Owner agrees to design and construct interim
improvements to the Community Park consisting of one regulation baseball field and one _
regulation soccer field, utilizing grass turf, in the Community Park so as to provide immediately
usable park land upon dedication. Owner's improvements shall not include lights, sidewalks or
other permanent park infrastructure, with the exception of restroom facilities which may, if
mutually agreeable to the City and Owner, be included as part of the interim park improvements.
Depending on the timing of the City's design process for the Community Park, the City may, at

its election, forego the provision of the park improvements by Owner, and instead elect to

37
327 of 460


--- page 328 ---
: ™,
~

‘ receive a $1 million contribution towards the development of final park improvements in
accordance with the City's ultimate design.
5.9.2. Dedication and Designation-of Linear Park and

Neighborhood Park.

Owner shall irrevocably dedicate 1.5 acres of land as a "Linear Park" and 1.5 acres of
land as a "Neighborhood Park" as a condition of approval of the SPAR for the first Block of
development adjacent to the Linear Park and the Neighborhood Park, respectively. The SPAR
conditions of approval shall specify the precise timing for the dedication and when the park
improvements must be completed, taking into account the staging needs for adjacent
development. Interim construction staging for adj acent development shall be permitted on the
Linear Park and Neighborhood Park sites.

5.9.3. Maintenance of Open Space and Dedicated Parks.

Owner shall maintain or cause a property owner's association or similar entity to maintain
all landscaping, medians and open space except for the 15 acres of public parks dedicated to the
City (which shall be maintained by the City at it expense). City shall grant Owner or Owner's

_ successor, agent, contractor or subcontractor a right of entry or encroachment permit to maintain
the landscaping on publicly-owned medians in the Specific Plan Amendment area.
5.10. Delaware Street. Owner acknowledges that the completion of
Delaware Street through the Property will complete the City's north-south street grid as shown
on the City's General Plan. If the City has approved the Owner's Design Guidelines, and the
First Phase approvals, then upon the request of the Public Works Director, Owner shall dedicate
the right-of-way required to accommodate a temporary two-lane North-South Delaware

connection, adjacent to the JPB right-of-way, designed in a manner to be compatible with the

38
328 of 460


--- page 329 ---
then existing uses on the Property. The City shall pay for the costs to design and construct the
temporary Delaware connection. At such time as the Project Approvals require the construction
of Delaware Street as described in the Specific Plan, the Owner, at its own expense, shall
demolish the temporary Delaware connection and design and construct the permanent Delaware
Street improvements in accordance with the Project Approvals.

5.11. Community Facilities District. At the request of the Owner, the
City shall pursue the use of a Community Facilities District ("CFD") for financing the payment
of capital improvement costs associated with the Public Improvements. Subject to market
conditions and fiscal prudence, the City shall use its best efforts to form such a CFD and issue
and sell bonds in connection therewith. Owner shall consent to the formation of the CFD prior to
the recordation of the first Project Tentative Map for the Project.

5.12. | Minimum Ten Percent Below Market Rate Units; Property Set-

Aside for Additional BMR Units.
| (a) In accordance with Existing City Laws, including Measure P, Owner shall set

aside an amount of units equal to 10 percent (10%) of all newly constructed residential units for
occupancy by and being affordable to moderate or lower income households ("BMR Units").
Notwithstanding any provision in the City's Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program in effect
as of the Application Date and attached as Exhibit E, the 10% percent requirement shall be
applied on a Block by Block basis. Since SPARs will be required on a Block-by-Block basis, the
Block constitutes the development project "site" for purposes of applying the BMR
requirements. The BMR Units shall be spread throughout each product type, provided that at
Owner's election, up to two hundred fifty (250) newly constructed residential units may have

their associated BMR Units located in a different building or parcel on that same Block, but

39
329 of 460


--- page 330 ---
spread throughout those buildings on the same Block. All BMR Units shall have exterior
design and appearance compatible with and substantially the same as buildings in which they are
~ located. They shall also have similar access to the unit from the exterior as comparable market
rate units in the building in which they are located. Construction of such BMR Units must have
commenced by the time of issuance of the first certificate of occupancy for any associated
market rate unit on the relevant Block, and diligently pursued to completion.

(b) ‘In addition, Owner shall provide to the City (or to a public or non-profit housing
developer of City's choice), at no cost to the City, approximately one acre of land, located in a
Mixed-Use Block (with the precise location to be determined at Owner's sole election), to be
developed by the City, or the designated public or non-profit agency, solely for low, very low, or
moderate income housing, and designed in accordance with the Specific Plan Amendment and
the Design Guidelines. The Owner shall designate the parcel and offer it to the City within six
(6) months after the commencement of construction of the main street section of Delaware. Prior
to transfer of title to the one acre parcel, a restrictive covenant requiring the use of the property
for low, very low or moderate income housing shall be recorded in favor of Owner and its
assigns, which covenant shall include a power of termination in favor of Owner and its assigns
should the terms of the covenant not be met. The obligations in this Section 5.12 implement the
City's desire to see an increased number of units in the Project set aside as BMR Units. Except
as modified by this Agreement Owner shall comply with City's Below Market Rate
(Inclusionary) Program in effect as of the Application Date and attached as Exhibit E.

5.13. Waiver of Density Bonus.
Except with respect to the one acre of land that Owner dedicates to the City for purposes

of the development of BMR Units in accordance with Section 5.12 of this Agreement, Owner, on

40
330 of 460


--- page 331 ---
behalf of itself and any assignee or successor in interest, waives any rights, as provided under

state low and moderate income density bonus laws as they exist at the date of execution of this

Agreement or at any time during the Term of this Agreement, to develop the Property or any

portion thereof at residential densities greater than those allowed under the Project Approvals. .
5.14. ‘Traffic Calming Contribution.

Owner shall contribute $250,000 for neighborhood traffic calming. This contribution is
in addition to the Traffic Mitigation Fee to be paid by the applicant, which also includes funding
for traffic calming. The contribution shall be made as a condition to the issuance of the first
building permit following the seventh (7th) anniversary of the Effective Date.

5.15. Contribution to Public Art.

In recognition that the City's public art ordinance is not otherwise applicable to the
Project, Owner shall contribute One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) to the City to be used for
public art and an additional Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000) to City Arts of San Mateo to be
utilized for funding a campaign for the arts, all as provided for in this section 5.15. The
contribution to San Mateo City Arts shall be made no later than ninety (90) days after the
Effective Date of this Agreement. The public art contribution shall-be made to the City in. the
following manner: (a) payment of Three Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($350,000) shall be
made to the City on the day the Owner sends written notice to the City that Owner accepts the
provisions and terms of the Design Guidelines and the First Phase approvals, as specified in
Section 5.19 of this Agreement; (b) Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000) shall be
used by Owner in the development of public art in the Town Square to be developed in

_accordance with the Specific Plan; (c) payment of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000)

shall be made to the City during the Term of this Agreement on each of the fifth (Sth), tenth

41
331 of 460


--- page 332 ---
(10th), and fifteenth (15th) anniversaries of the commencement of the Term; and (d) a final
payment of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) shall be made to the .City upon the
expiration of the eighteenth (18th) year of the Term of this Agreement . All payments to the City
shall only be used for art to be located within the Project. The selection and placement of public
art shall be determined by a process established by the City, subject to the reasonable approval of
Owner. Art proposed to be located on private property will be determined by a process that
includes the property owner such that the nature and placement of any art must be approved by
the Owner.

5.16. Contribution to Improve Casanova Park

The Owner shall contribute One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) to the City to be
used to improve Casanova Park in the Glendale Village neighborhood of the City. Payment of
One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) shall be made to the City on the earlier to occur of
(a) the date on which (i) the Effective Date has occurred and (ii) the City sends Owner notice that
it requires the contribution to complete or reimburse the City for the contemplated park
improvements, or (b) the date the Owner sends written notice to the City that Owner accepts the
provisions and terms of the Design Guidelines and the First Phase approvals, as specified in

Section 5.19 of this Agreement.

5.17. Contribution to Fiesta Gardens Homeowners Association.

The Owner shall contribute One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) to the Fiesta
Gardens Homeowners' Association to be used for planning, design and implementation of
aquatic improvements in Fiesta Gardens parks. Payment of One Hundred Thousand Dollars

($100,000) shall be made to the Fiesta Garden Homeowners' Association on the day the Owner

42
332 of 460


--- page 333 ---
sends written notice to the City that Owner accepts the provisions and terms of the Design

Guidelines and the First Phase approvals, as specified in Section 5.19 of this Agreement.

5.18. Green Building Demonstration Project.

The Owner shall construct, or cause at least one residential building in the Project to be
constructed, in a manner that will achieve a LEED Silver Certification, or its equivalent. This
demonstration project will contain at least 30 units (which units are expected to be all market rate
units) and will be developed within the first 400 residential units developed in the Project.

5.19. Prohibition on Expanded Gaming.

Owner agrees that from and after the Effective Date and until the earlier to occur of (a)
the second anniversary of the date Owner makes application for Design Guidelines, and (b) the
City's approval of Owner's application for the First Phase approvals, Owner shall not permit the
use of the Property for slot machines, video lottery terminals, or any other forms of expanded
gaming at the track, other than wagering on horse racing. Upon the City's approval of (a)
Owner's application for Design Guidelines and (b) Owner's applications for the First Phase, and
the final conclusion (as defined in Section 1.51) of any legal proceeding(s) with respect thereto,
Owner shall have ninety (90) days to send written notice to the City that Owner accepts the
provisions and terms of the Design Guidelines and the First Phase approvals. If Owner accepts
the terms and conditions thereof, then Owner shall record a covenant against the Property
restricting the use of the Property so as to prohibit the right to operate slot machines, video
lottery terminals, or any other forms of expanded gaming at the track, other than wagering on
horse racing , in perpetuity. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if within
the ninety day period specified in this Section 5.19, Owner notifies City that it does not accept
the provisions and terms of the Design Guidelines or First Phase approvals, then this Agreement

43
333 of 460


--- page 334 ---
shall Terminate and there shall be no further prohibition on expanded gaming at the Property.
Upon Termination pursuant to this Section 5.19, notwithstanding any other provision of City
Law or Law, any unrecorded tentative maps, shall expire. In no event shall any final map, with
respect to any Project Tentative Map, be recorded unless and until the Owner has accepted the
provisions and terms of the Design Guidelines and First Phase approvals.

5.20. Loss of Racing Revenue.

The Owner agrees to pay a maximum of $300,000 annually to the City to compensate for
the loss of net revenues to the City from the Property should Owner delay the commencement of
development of the Property following Owner's Election to Discontinue Racing. The first annual
payment (if any) shall be due the later to occur of (a) the date the City has approved Owner's
applications for Design Guidelines and Owner's applications for the First Phase, and (b) the
second anniversary of the Owner's Election to Discontinue Racing, provided that no payment
shall be due from and after the time a building permit with respect to any development on the
Property has been issued, and work in accordance with that permit has commenced. In
addition, and notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, any annual payment to the
City shall be net of general revenues (not including processing or similar fees) the City derives
from the Property from any source after the Effective Date (including, but not limited to,
property taxes, transfer taxes, fees, and sales taxes).

6. Periodic Review of Compliance.

6.1. Annual Review. Each year during the Term of this Agreement,
City and Owner shall review this Agreement, and all actions taken pursuant to the terms of this

Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of this Article 6.

44
334 of 460


--- page 335 ---
6.2. Owner's Submission. Not less than thirty (30), nor more than sixty
(60), days prior to the first (1st) anniversary of the Bffective Date of this Agreement, and each
anniversary date thereafter, Owner shall submit to the City Clerk, with a copy to the Director, a
letter setting forth Owner's good faith compliance with the terms and conditions of this
Agreement and a request that review of such compliance by the Planning Commission be made
in accordance with law. Such letter shall be accompanied by such documents and other
information as may be reasonably necessary and available to Owner to enable the Planning
Commission to undertake the annual review of Owner's good faith compliance with the terms of
this Agreement, and shall also state that such letter is submitted to City pursuant to the
requirements of Government Code § 65865.1, and Section 8(a) of the Development Agreement
Resolution.

6.3. Finding of Compliance. Within forty-five (45) days after Owner
submits its letter, the City shall review the Owner's submission to ascertain whether it contains
sufficient information to determine whether Owner has complied in good faith with the terms of

‘this Agreement. Upon request of the City, Owner shall furnish such additional documents or
information as may be reasonably required and available to Owner to enable the Planning
Commission to make and complete its review hereunder. At the first available duly noticed
regular meeting following receipt of all information requested by the City (if any), the Planning
Commission shall determine the good faith compliance by Owner with the terms of this
Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of this Article 6 and Section 8(a) of the
Development Agreement Resolution and Government Code Section 65865.1. At least five (5)
days prior to rendering a decision, the City shall provide to Owner copies of all staff reports and

other information concerning Owner's compliance with the terms of this Agreement. If the

45
335 of 460


--- page 336 ---
Planning Commission finds good faith compliance by Owner with the terms of this Agreement,
upon request by Owner, the City Manager shall provide to Owner written confirmation of such ~
finding.

6.4. Finding of Noncompliance/Danger to Health and Safety. If the
Planning Commission, on the basis of substantial evidence, finds that the Owner has committed _
an Event of Default, or that the failure of the City to terminate or modify the provisions of this
Agreement would place the residents of the territory subject to this Agreement or the residents of
the City, or both, in a condition dangerous to their health and safety (hereafter, “Danger to
Health and Safety”), it shall specify on the record the respects in which Owner has failed to
comply or the factual basis for a finding of Danger to Health and Safety. The Planning
Commission shall also specify a reasonable time for Owner to meet the terms of compliance,
which time shall be not less than thirty (30) days, and shall be reasonably related to the time
necessary for Owner to adequately bring its performance into good faith compliance with the
terms of this Agreement. If the areas of noncompliance specified by the Planning Commission
are not perfected within such reasonable time limits prescribed, then upon recommendation of
the Planning Commission, this Agreement shall be subject to modification or cancellation by the
City Council pursuant to this Agreement and the provisions of Section 8 of the Development
Agreement Resolution. Similarly, upon a finding of Danger to Health and Safety, the Planning
Commission shall make recommendations to the City Council regarding modifications to or
termination of this Agreement, pursuant to this Agreement and the provisions of Section 8 of the
Development Agreement Resolution.

6.5. Appeals to City Council. If Owner appeals a determination of

noncompliance hereunder to the City Council or the Planning Commission makes a finding of

46
336 of 460


--- page 337 ---
Danger to Health and Safety, both as specified in Section 8 of the Development Agreement
Resolution, then the City Council shall schedule the hearing thereon not earlier than thirty (30)
days and not more than sixty (60) days after Owner files its notice of appeal or the date the
Planning Commission renders its decision, whichever is later. If, after receipt of any written
response of Owner, and after considering all of the written and oral evidence at such public
hearing, the City Council finds and determines on the basis of substantial evidence that the
Owner has not complied in good faith with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, then the
City Council shall specify to Owner the respects in which Owner has failed to comply, and shall
also specify a reasonable time for Owner to meet the terms of compliance, which time shall be
not less than thirty (30) days and shall be reasonably related to the time necessary for Owner to
adequately bring its performance into good faith compliance with the terms of this Agreement.

If the areas of noncompliance specified by the City Council are not perfected within such
reasonable time limits herein prescribed, then the City Council may by noticed hearing

terminate, modify or take such other actions as may be specified in Section 8 of the Development
Agreement Resolution. Similarly, if after receipt of any written response of Owner, and after
considering all of the written and oral evidence at such public hearing, the City Council finds and
determines on the basis of substantial evidence that failure of the City to terminate or modify the
Agreement will constitute a Danger to Health and Safety, then the City Council may terminate or
modify this Agreement in accordance with this Agreement and Section 8 of the Development
Agreement Resolution.

6.6. Miscellaneous Requirements in Connection With Annual Review.

In the event that City fails to either (a) conduct the annual review after Owner has met its

submission requirements under Section 6.2 (Owner's Submission), or (b) thereafter notify Owner .

337 of 460


--- page 338 ---
in writing of City's determination as to compliance or noncompliance with this Agreement, and
after having been provided written notice by Owner of City’s failure to conduct that annual
review or make such determination regarding this Agreement and such failure remains uncured
as of December 31 of any year during the Term of this Agreement, Owner shall be deemed in
compliance with the terms of this Agreement until such time as the annual review has taken
place and City has notified Owner of its determination.

6.7. Standards. Each annual review hereunder shall, to the extent
applicable, be subject to the demonstration of compliance by Owner through ascertainable
standards of professional disciplines having the requisite experience and expertise within the
subject matter under review, in order that Owner will have the ability, to the extent applicable, to
demonstrate compliance on an objective basis through information or other data prepared by
Owner and its consultants and submitted with its annual statement of compliance hereunder.
Nothing in this Section 6.7 shall be construed to limit City's discretion in making a determination
based on substantial evidence, as to whether Owner is in good faith compliance or whether
failure of the City to terminate or modify the Agreement will constitute a Danger to Health and
Safety.

6.8. Effect on Transferees. If Owner has effected a transfer so that its
interest in the Property has been divided between more than one (1) Party, then the annual
review hereunder shall be conducted separately with respect to each such Party, and the Planning
Commission and/or City Council shall make its determinations and take its actions as authorized
and required separately with respect to each such Party. If the City Council Terminates,
modifies or takes such other actions as may be specified in Section 8 of the Development

Agreement Resolution in connection with a determination that such Party has not complied in

48
338 of 460


--- page 339 ---
good faith with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, such action shall be effected only as
to the Party as to whom the determination is made and the portions of the Property in which such
Party has an interest, unless the Planning Commission and/or the City Council in its resolution of
Termination, modification or other action further limits the scope of its determination.

6.9. Event of Default. The rights and powers of the City Council under
this Article 6 are in addition to, and shall not limit, the rights of the City to modify, Terminate or

take other action under this Agreement on account of the commission by Owner of an Event of

Default.

49
339 of 460


--- page 340 ---
7. Permitted Delays: Supersedure by Subsequent Laws.

7.1. Permitted Delays. In addition to any specific provisions of this
Agreement, performance by either Party of its obligations hereunder shall be excused during any
period of delay, to the extent that delay is an actual cause of default, caused at any time by
reason of acts of God or civil commotion, riots, strikes, picketing, or other labor disputes,
shortage of materials or supplies, or damage to work in process by reason of fire, floods,
earthquake, or other casualties, restrictions imposed or mandated by governmental or quasi-
governmental entities, enactment of conflicting Laws (including, without limitation, new or
supplementary environmental regulations), litigation, acts or neglect of the other Party, or any
other cause beyond the reasonable control of a Party. Each Party shall promptly notify the other
Party of any delay hereunder as soon as possible after the same has been ascertained. The Parties
shall then meet and confer reasonably and in good faith to determine how to respond to the delay
so as to meet the purposes and intent of this Agreement. The Term of this Agreement shall be
extended by the period of any delay hereunder, not to cumulatively exceed seven (7) years.

7.2, Subsequent Laws. If any Laws made or enacted after the Effective
Date of this Agreement prevent or preclude compliance with one or more provisions of this
Agreement, then the provisions of this Agreement shall, to the extent feasible, be modified or
suspended as may be necessary to comply with such new Law. Immediately after enactment of
any such new Law, the Parties shall meet and confer reasonably and in good faith to determine
the feasibility of any such modification or suspension based on the effect such modification or
suspension would have on the purposes and intent of this Agreement. If such modification or
suspension is infeasible , then Owner shall have the right to terminate this Agreement by written

notice to City. In addition, at Owner's election, the Term of this Agreement may be extended

50
340 of 460


--- page 341 ---
pursuant to Section 7.1 above for the duration of the period during which such new Law
precludes compliance with the provisions of this Agreement for a period not to exceed 24
months. Owner shall also have the right to challenge the new Law preventing compliance with
the terms of this Agreement, and, in the event such challenge is successful, this Agreement shall
remain unmodified and in full force and effect, except that the Term shall be extended by such
challenge pursuant to Section 7.1 above and the provisions of this Section 7.2.

8. Events of Default; Remedies; Termination; Attorneys' Fees.

8.1. Events of Default. Subject to any extensions of time by mutual
consent in writing, and subject to the provisions of Section 7.1 regarding permitted delays, any
failure by either Party to perform any material term or provision of this Agreement (including
any failure to comply in good faith with the terms of this Agreement) shall constitute an event of
default ("Event of Default"), (a) if such defaulting Party does not cure such failure within thirty
(30) days following notice of default from the other Party, where such failure is of a nature that
can be cured within such thirty (30) day period, or (b) if such failure is not of a nature which can
be cured within such thirty (30) day period, the defaulting Party does not within such thirty (30)
day period commence substantial efforts to cure stich failure, or thereafter does not within a
reasonable time prosecute to completion with diligence and continuity the curing of such failure.

8.2. Remedies. Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, the
nondefaulting Party may not exercise any rights or remedies unless and until it has first requested |
in writing that the Parties schedule a meeting to occur before a neutral mediator no later than
thirty (30) days following such notice, to mediate and resolve the dispute. The nondefaulting
Party shall submit a list of three neutral mediators provided by ADR Services, Inc. — San

Francisco (or some other mediation services organization agreeable to both Parties) and dates the

51
341 of 460


--- page 342 ---
mediators are available at the time it requests the meeting. The defaulting Party shall select the
neutral mediator from the list provided. If the dispute is not resolved within forty-five (45) days
after the nondefaulting Party has requested a meeting, and the nondefaulting Party has provided
at least three (3) available business days for such meeting at which its own representative and the
neutral mediator are available at a location within the City of San Mateo, regardless of whether
the Parties have actually met to mediate the dispute, the nondefaulting Party shall have the right,
in addition to all other rights and remedies available at law or in equity, to (a) bring any
proceeding in the nature of specific performance, injunctive relief, declaratory relief, or
mandamus, and/or (b) bring any action at law or in equity as may be permitted by any Law or
this Agreement to compensate the nondefaulting Party for all the detriment proximately caused
by the defaulting Party's failure to perform, or otherwise arising out of the Event of Default, or
which in the ordinary course of things would be likely to result therefrom, provided however that
(i) Owner shall not have the right to recover monetary damages (compensatory or consequential)
against City, and (ii) City shall only have the right to recover actual, direct (and not
consequential) damages against Owner. In addition, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default,
the nondefaulting Party shall have the right to Terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.3,
but any such Termination shall not affect such Party's right to seek any remedy permitted by this

Agreement on account of the Event of Default for which this Agreement has been terminated.

52

342 of 460


--- page 343 ---
8.3. Standards for Termination; Procedure on Termination.

8.3.1. Standards. A Party may Terminate this Agreement
pursuant to Section 8.1 above on account of the commission by the other Party of an Event of
Default only if, as a result of such Event of Default, the Party seeking to Terminate
demonstrates, on the basis of substantial evidence in the record as a whole, that it will be
deprived of a material benefit under this Agreement.

8.3.2. Procedure for Termination. If a Party concludes that it has
the right to Terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.3.1, such Party shall give to the other
Party notice of its intent to Terminate this Agreement. If City is the Party seeking to Terminate
this Agreement, City shall then conduct a noticed public hearing before the City Council which
public hearing shall be scheduled for the first regularly-scheduled meeting of the City Council
after the giving of public notice of such hearing in accordance with the applicable City Laws and
applicable Laws; and such notice of public hearing shall be given by City within thirty (30) days
following the date City gives notice of its intent to Terminate this Agreement. At such hearing
City shall demonstrate on the record the grounds and basis on which it claims the right to
Terminate under Section 8.3.1 above. Upon conclusion of such public hearing, the City Council
shall direct the City Manager to take whatever action the City Council deems necessary or
appropriate in connection with City's notice of intent to Terminate, including to proceed with
Termination of this Agreement, proceedings for modification of this Agreement , or any other
action specified by the City Council in the exercise of its discretion. The public hearing
hereunder shall be concluded within sixty (60) days after it has been opened by the City Council
and the holding of such public hearing hereunder shall be a condition to the initiation by City of

any proceeding at law or in equity in connection with a Party's Termination of this Agreement on

53
343 of 460


--- page 344 ---
() -

account of an Bvent of Default. If Owner is the Party exercising a right of Termination, Owner
shall give City at least 45 days notice of its intent to Terminate. During the 45 day period, the
Parties shall exercise good faith in attempting to resolve the conflict. If the matter cannot be
resolved, only after expiration of the 45 day period may Owner Terminate this agreement. Such
Termination shall be made by sending written notice thereof to the City. |

8.3.3. Effective Date of Termination. Termination of this
Agreement by a Party on account of an Event of Default shall be effected on the later of (i) the
date specified or required to be specified in a Party's notice of intent to Terminate, or (ii) in the
case of the City, thirty (30) days after the conclusion of the public hearing pursuant to Section
8.3.2 above unless, as a result of such public hearing, the City determines to take actions as an
alternative to or in lieu of Termination, in which event City shall not have the right to Terminate
this Agreement unless and until it has given a subsequent notice of intent to Terminate pursuant
to this Section 8.3.3.

8.3.4. Judicial Proceeding to Challenge Termination. Any

challenge to a Party's Termination of this Agreement on account of an Event of Default by the
other Party shall be subject to review in the Superior Court of the County of San Mateo pursuant
to California Code of Civil Procedure § 1094.5(c) or other applicable law. Any challenge to a
Party's claim that an Event of Default has occurred (which does not involve a purported
Termination of this Agreement) shall be subject to review in the Superior Court of San Mateo
County pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure § 1094.5 or other applicable law, and
such Court shall determine the appropriate standard of review. |

8.4. Effect of Termination. If a Party Terminates this Agreement, such

Termination shall not affect any right or duty emanating from any Approvals with respect to the

54
344 of 460


--- page 345 ---
Project or Property approved concurrently or subsequently to the approval of this Agreement, but
the rights, duties and obligations of the Parties hereunder shall otherwise cease as of the date of
such Termination. Upon Termination of this Agreement, City shall retain any and all benefits,
including money or land, previously received by City or that should have been received by City
as of the date of Termination under or in connection with this Agreement. Notwithstanding the
foregoing provisions, no Termination of this Agreement shall prevent Owner from completing
and occupying buildings or other improvements authorized pursuant to valid building permits or
certificates of occupancy previously approved by City or under construction at the time of
Termination, unless the reason giving rise to the Termination independently affects such building
permits or certificates of occupancy. As used herein, "construction" means work under a valid
permit, and "completing" means completion for beneficial use or occupancy by Owner, or ifa
portion of the Project is intended for use by a lessee or tenant and the lessee or tenant is
responsible for completing the interior improvements, then for such portion "completing" shall
mean such completion except for interior improvements, such as partitions, duct and electrical
runouts, floor coverings, wall coverings, lighting, furniture, trade fixtures, finished ceilings, and

_ other improvements typically constructed by or for tenants of buildings.

8.5. Limitations on Actions. Any action by any third Person to attack,
review, set aside, void or annul any action or decision taken by either Party under this Agreement
shall not be maintained by such Person unless such action or proceeding is commenced within
ninety (90) days after the date such decision or action is made or taken hereunder, or such shorter

period as is prescribed by Law.

8.6. . Waiver; Remedies Cumulative. Failure by a Party to insist upon

the strict performance of any of the provisions of this Agreement by the other Party, irrespective

55

345 of 460


--- page 346 ---
of the length of time for which such failure continues, shall not constitute a waiver of such
Party's right to demand strict compliance by such other Party in the future. No waiver by a Party
of an Event of Default shall be effective or binding upon such Party unless made in writing by

_such Party, and no such waiver shall be implied from any omission by a Party to take any action
with respect to such Event of Default. No express written waiver of any Event of Default shall
affect any other Event of Default, or cover any other period of time, other than any Event of
Default and/or period of time specified in such express waiver. All of the remedies permitted or
available to a Party under this Agreement, or at law or in equity, shall be cumulative and not
alternative, and invocation of any such right or remedy shall not constitute a waiver or election
of remedies with respect to any other permitted or available right or remedy.

8.7. Attorneys! Fees. Attorneys' fees in an amount not exceeding
eighty-five dollars ($85) per hour per attorney, and in total amount not exceeding five thousand
dollars ($5,000), shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing ofa cost bill) by the prevailing party
in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. "Prevailing Party" within
the meaning of this Section 8.7 shall include, without limitation, a Party who dismisses an action
for recovery hereunder or a portion thereof in exchange for payment of the sums allegedly due,
performance of covenants allegedly breached, or consideration substantially equal to the relief
sought in the action. The above five thousand dollar ($5,000) limit is the total of attorneys’ fees
recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number
of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions. It is the intent of this Agreement that neither Party shall
have to pay the other more than five thousand dollar ($5,000) for attorneys’ fees arising out of an

action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.

56

346 of 460


--- page 347 ---
8.8. No Third Party Beneficiaries. City and Owner hereby renounce
the existence of any third party beneficiary to this Agreement and agree that nothing contained
herein shall be construed as giving any Person third party beneficiary status. If any action or
proceeding is instituted by any third Person challenging the validity of any provision of this
Agreement, or any action or decision taken or made hereunder, the Parties shall cooperate in
defending such action or proceeding.

8.9. Effect of Court Action. If any court action or proceeding is
brought by any third Person to challenge any Approval, this Agreement, or any other permit or
approval required from City or any other governmental entity for development or construction of
the Project, or any portion thereof, and without regard to whether or not Owner is a party to or
real party in interest in such action or proceeding, then if such court action or proceeding is likely
to materially affect the timing or cost of development such as to threaten the economic feasibility
of the Project, Owner shall have the right to terminate this Agreement upon thirty (30) days'
notice in writing to City, given at any time during the pendency of such action or proceeding, or
within ninety (90) days after the final determination therein (including any appeals), irrespective
of the nature of such final determination, and (b) any such action or proceeding shall constitute a
permitted delay under Section 71. |

$8.10. Estoppel Certificate. Either Party may, at any time, and from time
to time, deliver written notice to the other Party requesting such Party to certify in writing that, to
the knowledge of the certifying Party, (a) this Agreement is in full force and effect and a binding
obligation of the Parties, (b) this Agreement has not been amended or modified either orally or in
writing, and if so amended, identifying the amendments, and (c) the requesting Party is hot in

default in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, or if in default, to describe

57

347 of 460


--- page 348 ---
therein the nature and amount of any such defaults. A Party receiving a request hereunder shall

execute and return such certificate within thirty (30) days following the receipt thereof. The

Director shall have the right to execute any certificate requested by Owner hereunder. City

acknowledges that a certificate hereunder may be relied upon by transferees and Mortgages.
9. Mortgagee Protection; Certain Rights of Cure.

9.1. Mortgagee Protection. This Agreement shall be superior and
senior to any lien placed upon the Property, or any portion thereof, including the lien of any
Mortgage. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no breach hereof shall defeat, render invalid,
diminish or impair the lien of any Mortgage made in good faith and for value, but all of the terms
and conditions contained in this Agreement shall be binding upon and effective against any
Person (including any Mortgagee) who acquires title to the Property, or any portion thereof, by
foreclosure, trustee's sale, deed in lieu of foreclosure, or otherwise.

9,2. Mortgagee Not Obligated. Notwithstanding the provisions of
Section 9.1 above, no Mortgagee shall have any obligation or duty under this Agreement to
construct or complete the construction of improvements, or to guarantee such construction or
completion; provided, however, that a Mortgagee shall not be entitled to devote the Property to
any uses or to construct any improvements thereon other than those uses or improvements
provided for or authorized by this Agreement, or otherwise under City Laws.

9,3. Notice of Default to Mortgagee: Right of Mortgagee to Cure. If
City receives notice from a Mortgagee requesting a copy of any notice of default given Owner
hereunder and specifying the address for service thereof, then City shall deliver to such
Mortgagee, concurrently with service thereon to Owner, any notice of an Event of Default or

determination of noncompliance given to Owner. Each Mortgagee shall have the right (but not

58
348 of 460


--- page 349 ---
the obligation) for a period of ninety (90) days after the receipt of such notice from City to cure
or remedy, or to commence to cure or remedy, the Event of Default claimed or the areas of
noncompliance set forth in the City's notice. If the Event of Default or such noncompliance is of
a nature which can only be remedied or cured by such Mortgagee upon obtaining ery |
such Mortgagee shall seek to obtain possession with diligence and continuity through a receiver
or otherwise, and shall thereafter remedy or cure the Event of Default or noncompliance within
ninety (90) days after obtaining possession. If any such Event of Default or noncompliance
cannot, with diligence, be remedied or cured within such ninety (90) day period, then such
Mortgagee shall have such additional time as may be reasonably necessary to remedy or cure
such Event of Default or noncompliance (including but not limited to proceeding to gain
possession of the Property) if such Mortgagee commences cure during such ninety (90) day

period, and thereafter diligently pursues completion of such cure to the extent possible.

59

349 of 460


--- page 350 ---
94, Right of City to Cure. If Owner defaults under any Mortgage, then
City shall have the right, but not the obligation, to cure such default prior to completion of any
foreclosure or any proceeding to terminate the interest of Owner in the Property. If City invokes
its right to cure hereunder, City shall be entitled to. reimbursement from Owner of all costs and
expenses incurred by City in curing such default. City shall also be entitled to a lien upon any of
the Property, or portion thereof, encumbered by the Mortgage with respect to which Owner has
defaulted, to the extent of such costs and disbursements.

10. Transfer and Assignment.

10.1. Assignment.

Owner shall obtain City's prior written consent to assign or transfer any of its obligations,
at any time before both of the following has occurred: (a) the City has approved the Design .
Guidelines; and (b) the City has approved the First Phase applications. Further, Owner may not
assign or transfer any of its obligations to (a) construct an off-site force main (pursuant to the
Project Approvals), (b) pay City $4.6 million in transportation mitigation fees (pursuant to
Section 3.10), (c) dedicate the Community Park to City (pursuant to Section 5.9 (Parks) and the
Project Approvals), (d) construct 28th Avenue, 31st Avenue and Delaware Street (pursuant to the
Project Approvals), (e) dedicate land for City to construct Delaware Street if the Project does not
proceed (pursuant to Section 5.10 and 3.10), (f) contribute $250,000 for neighborhood traffic
calming (pursuant to Section 5.13), (g) design and construct interim improvements for the
Community Park or provide a $1 million contribution towards development of the final park
improvements at the City's election (pursuant to Section 5.9.1), (h) design and construct the
temporary dry storage area in the Community Park (if necessary) or rough grade and construct

the permanent dry storage area (pursuant to the Project Approvals), (i) dedicate the Linear Park

60
350 of 460


--- page 351 ---
and Neighborhood Park (each park is anticipated to be transferred upon development of a Block
_ associated with the park), (j) contribute to public art (pursuant to Section 5.15), (k) contribute
$100,000 for Casanova Park (pursuant to Section 5.16) and (1) contribute to Fiesta Gardens
Homeowners’ Association for aquatic improvements to the common areas pursuant to Section
5.17), without City's prior written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld,
conditioned or delayed. Any failure by Owner to obtain required consent shall be curable in
accordance with the provision of Section 8.1 hereof (Events of Default). Following approval of
the Design Guidelines and First Phase applications, and except as expressly provided in this
Section 10.1, Owner shall have the right, without the consent of City, to assign or transfer all or
any portion of its interest, rights or obligations under this Agreement to third Persons acquiring
an interest or estate'in all or a portion of the Property (the "Transferred Property"), including, but
not limited to, purchasers or long term ground lessees of individual lots, Blocks, parcels, or of
any of the buildings located within the Property, so long as the Owner provides the City with a
certification that to Owner's reasonable knowledge, the Person acquiring the Transferred
Property has a demonstrated track record with projects of a similar scope and quality, and the
entity or person is capable of qualifying for commercially reasonable financing for the
Transferred Property from a regional bank or other substantial financial institution or equity
source. Notwithstanding the foregoing, City's consent shall not be required for an assignment of
an interest in this Agreement in connection with a conveyance or transfer to an equity source,
bank, or other financial institution or corporation for financing purposes of any equitable interest
in the Project and/or the Property whether by means of a deed of trust or other instrument.

10.2. Notice. If Owner is not required to obtain City's consent to an

assignment or transfer pursuant to Section 10.1, Owner shall give prior written notice to City of

61
351 of 460


--- page 352 ---
its intention to assign or transfer any of its interest, rights or obligations under this Agreement.
Any failure by Owner to provide such notice shal] be curable in accordance with the provision of
Section 8.1 hereof (Events of Default). For the purposes of this Section 10.2, an assignment
includes an assignment of an interest in this Agreement in connection with a conveyance or
transfer to a bank or other financial institution or corporation for financing purposes of any
equitable interest in the Project and/or the Property whether by means of a deed of trust or other
instrument. 7

10.3. Assignment Agreement. Any assignee or transferee shall
expressly assume Owner's obligations under this Agreement through an assignment agreement
("Assignment Agreement") to be executed by and between (a) Owner, (b) the assignee or
transferee, and (c) City. Execution of such Assignment Agreement shall thereby relieve Owner
of any responsibility or liability for those assumed obligations under this Agreement, and shall
impose upon the assignee or transferee those assumed obligations. If Owner or the Owner of any
Transferred Property defaults under this Agreement, such default shall not constitute a default by
the Owner of any other portion of the Property hereunder (including, but not limited to the
Owner) and shall not entitle City to terminate or modify this Agreement with respect to such
other portion of the Property or the Owner thereof; provided, however, that nothing herein shall
restrict City from taking action with respect to the portion of the Property or the Owner actually
responsible for the default.

10.4. Trip Budget. Each Assignment Agreement shall specify the
number of PM peak hour trips allocated to the Transferred Property ("Trip Budget") by Owner.
The Assignment Agreement may provide for the Trip Budget to be reduced in the future

(i) where the actual trips (as determined by monitoring) or the forecast trips (as determined at

62
352 of 460


--- page 353 ---
SPAR) generated by the Transferred Property are lower than the Trip Budget, and/or (ii) to
reflect future reductions required by the Approvals for the Project overall. City agrees that the
monitoring and enforcement of the Trip Budget shall be handled through the Approvals and not
through this Agreement, and any failure to comply with the Trip Budget shall not constitute an
Event of Default or other violation of this Agreement in any way whatsoever.

10,5. . Covenants Run With The Land. All of the provisions, agreements,
rights, powers. standards, terms, covenants and obligations contained in this Agreement shall
constitute covenants that shall run with the land comprising the Property, and the burdens and
benefits shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of each of the Parties and their respective
heirs, successors (by merger, consolidation, or otherwise), assigns, devisees, administrators,
representatives, and lessees.

11. Amendment and Termination.

11.1. Amendment or Cancellation. Except as provided in Article 6
(Periodic Review of Compliance) above with respect to City's annual review, this Agreement
may be canceled, modified or amended only by mutual consent of the Parties in writing, and then
only in the manner provided for in Government Code Section 65868 and Section 8 of the
Development Agreement Resolution. Minor modifications to this Agreement which do not
relate to the Term, permitted uses, density or intensity of use, height or size of buildings,
provisions for reservation and dedication of land, conditions, terms, restrictions and requirements
relating to subsequent discretionary actions, monetary contributions by Owner, or any conditions
or covenants relating to the use of the Property, or like material provisions, shall not be

considered amendments and shall require the giving of notice pursuant to Government Code

63
353 of 460


--- page 354 ---
Section 65867 as specified by Section 65868 thereof, but shall not require a public hearing

before the Parties may make such amendment.

11.2. Recordation. Any amendment, termination or cancellation of this
Agreement shall be recorded by the City Clerk not later than ten (10) days after the effective date
of the action, and such effective date shall be considered the date upon which the City entered
into or determined such amendment, termination or cancellation.

12. Notices.

12.1. . Procedure. Any notice to either Party shall be in writing and given
by delivering the same to such Party in person or by sending the same by registered or certified
mail, or express mail, return receipt requested, with postage prepaid, to the Party's mailing
address. The respective mailing addresses of the Parties are, until changed as hereinafter

provided, the following:

City: City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, California 94403
Attention: Director of Community

Development

with a copy to: Office of the City Attorney
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, California 94403

Owner: Bay Meadows Land Company
1200 Park Place
San Mateo, California 94403
Attention: Terrence Fancher

with a copy to: Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP
333 S. Grand Avenue
Suite 4900
Los Angeles, California 90071
Attention: Amy R. Forbes

64
354 of 460


--- page 355 ---
Any Party may change its mailing address at any time by giving written notice of such change to
the other Party in the manner provided herein at least ten (10) days prior to the date such change
is effected. All notices under this Agreement shall be deemed given, received, made or
communicated on the date personal delivery is effected or, if mailed, on the delivery date or
attempted delivery date shown on the return receipt.

13. Miscellaneous.

13.1. Negation of Partnership. The Parties specifically acknowledge that
the Project is a private development, that neither Party is acting as the agent of the other in any
respect hereunder, and that each Party is an independent contracting entity with respect to the
terms, covenants and conditions contained in this Agreement. None of the terms or provisions of
this Agreement shall be deemed to create a partnership between or among the Parties in the
businesses of Owner, the affairs of City, or otherwise, nor shall it cause them to be considered
joint venturers or members of any joint enterprise.

13.2. Approvals. Unless otherwise herein provided, whenever approval,
consent or satisfaction (herein collectively referred to as a "consent") is required of a Party
pursuant to this Agreement, such consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
Consent shall be deemed given if the Party from whom the consent is sought neither approves or
disapproves of the request within thirty (30) days, or such other applicable time period specified
in this Agreement, after receipt of the written request for consent, but not before the Party
requesting the consent has delivered notice to the opposing Party that the thirty (30) day period
has expired, and that it will deem such passage of time to be consent if the opposing Party does
not object within ten (10) calendar days. If a Party shall not consent, the reasons therefore shall
be stated in reasonable detail in writing. Consent by a Party to or of any act or request by the

65
355 of 460


--- page 356 ---
other Party shall not be deemed to waive or render unnecessary consent to or of any similar or
subsequent acts or requests.

13.3. Project Approvals Independent. All Approvals which may be
granted pursuant to this Agreement, and all Approvals or other land use approvals which have
been or may be issued or granted by the City with respect to the Property, constitute independent
actions and approvals by the City. If any provision of this Agreement or the application of any
provision of this Agreement to a particular situation is held by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be invalid or unenforceable, or if the City terminates this Agreement for any reason, such
invalidity, unenforceability or termination of this Agreement or any part hereof shall not affect
the validity or effectiveness of any Approvals or other land use approvals. In such cases, such
Approvals will remain in effect pursuant to their own terms, provisions and conditions.

13.4. NotA Public Dedication. Nothing herein contained shall be
deemed to be a gift or dedication of the Property, or of the Project, or portion thereof, to the
general public, for the general public, or for any public use or purpose whatsoever except as
specifically provided as a term of this Agreement, condition of Project Approval or other
approval. Owner shall have the right to prevent or prohibit the use of the Property, or the
Project, or any portion thereof, including common areas and buildings and improvements located
thereon, by any person for any purpose inimical to the operation of a private, integrated Project
as contemplated by this Agreement.

13.5. Severability. Invalidation of any of the provisions contained in
this Agreement, or of the application thereof to any person, by judgment or court order, shall in
no way affect any of the other provisions hereof or the application thereof to any other Person or

circumstance and the same shall remain in full force and effect, unless enforcement of this

66
356 of 460


--- page 357 ---
Agreement as so invalidated would be unreasonable or grossly inequitable under all the
circumstances or would frustrate the purposes of this Agreement.

13.6. Exhibits. Exhibits A, B, D and E listed in the Table of Contents
and referred to herein are deemed incorporated into this Agreement in their entirety. Exhibit C is
not incorporated into this Agreement.

13.7. Entire Agreement. This written Agreement and the Exhibits
contain all the representations and the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the
subject matter hereof. Except as otherwise specified in this Agreement, any prior
correspondence, memoranda, agreements, warranties or representations are superseded in total
by this Agreement.

13.8. Construction of Agreement. The provisions of this Agreement and
the Exhibits shall be construed as a whole according to their common meaning and not strictly
for or against any Party in order to achieve the objectives and purpose of the Parties. The
. captions preceding the text of each Article, Section, subsection and the Table of Contents are
included only for convenience of reference and shall be disregarded in the construction and
interpretation of this Agreement. Wherever required by the context, the singular shall include
the plural and vice versa, and the masculine gender shall include the feminine or neuter genders,
or vice versa.

13.9. Further Assurances; Covenant to Sign Documents. Each Party

covenants, on behalf of itself and its successors, heirs and assigns, to take all actions and do all
things, and to execute, with acknowledgment or affidavit if required, any and all documents and
writings that may be necessary or proper to achieve the purposes and objectives of this

Agreement.

67

357 of 460


--- page 358 ---
13.10. Governing Law. This Agreement, and the rights and obligations of
the Parties, shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of
California.

13.11. References; Terminology. Unless otherwise specified, whenever
in this Agreement, reference is made to the Table of Contents, any Article or Section, or any

_ defined term, such reference shall be deemed to refer to the Table of Contents, Article, Section
or defined term of this Agreement. Exhibits to this Agreement shall be incorporated into this
Agreement as if stated fully herein. The use in this Agreement of the words "including", "such
as" or words of similar import when following any general term, statement or matter shall not be
construed to limit such statement, term or matter to the specific items or matters, whether or not
language of nonlimitation, such as "without limitation" or "but not limited to", or words of
similar import, are used with reference thereto, but rather shall be deemed to refer to all other

items or matters that could reasonably fall within the broadest possible scope of such statement,

term or matter.

68
358 of 460


--- page 359 ---
13.12. Signature Pag es. For convenience, the signatures of the Parties to
this Agreement may be executed and acknowledged on separate pages which, when attached to
this Agreement, shall constitute this as one complete Agreement.

13.13. Construction. This Agreement has been reviewed and revised by
legal counsel for both Owner and City, and no presumption or rule that ambiguities shall be
construed against the drafting Party shall apply to the interpretation or enforcement of this
Agreement..

13.14. Time. Time is of the essence of this Agreement and of each and
every term and condition hereof.

13.15. Indemnification.

Owner agrees to defend, indemnify, release and hold harmless the City, its City Council
members, agents, officers, attorneys, employees, boards and commissions from any litigation,
claim, action or court proceeding brought against any of the foregoing individuals or entities
("Indemnified Parties"), the purpose of which is to attack, set aside, void or annul the Project
Approvals or this Agreement. This indemnification shall include, but not be limited to, damages,
costs, expenses, reasonable attorney fees or expert witness fees that may be asserted or incurred
by Indemnified Parties, arising out of or in connection with the approval of this Agreement or
any Proj ect Approvals. If Owner is required to defend Indemnified Parties in connection with
any litigation, claim, action, or court proceeding, the City shall retain the right to approve any
and all settlements proposed by-Owner, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld from
the City. Owner shall also have the right to approve any and all settlements of any such matters
proposed by the City and relating to this Agreement or the Project Approvals, which approval

shall not be unreasonably withheld from the Owner. City agrees to cooperate with Owner in the

69

359 of 460


--- page 360 ---
defense of the claim, action or proceeding. Nothing in this section shall be construed to mean
that Owner shall defend, indemnify or hold the City or its elected or appointed representatives,
officers, agents and employees harmless from any claims of personal injury, death or property
damage arising from, or alleged to arise from, the maintenance or repair by the City of

_ improvements that have been offered for dedication and accepted by the City or for City's gross

negligence or willful misconduct.

70
360 of 460


--- page 361 ---
WILSON
MEANY

August 11, 2023

Rendell Bustos

City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Ave.

San Mateo, CA 94403

RE: Proposed Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement Extension
Rendell:

We would like to request a three year extension of the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement
which expires in December 21, 2023. A draft of the proposed amendment is included with our Planning
Application.

Over the past 18 years, Bay Meadows Land Company and the City of San Mateo have worked closely
together to create a new mixed-use, transit oriented development in San Mateo. Today, Bay Meadows
has 981 homes, 5 office buildings fully leased to high quality companies, three public parks, a high school
and a new below market rate apartment building. As set forth in the Development Agreement, Bay
Meadows Land Company has contributed to San Mateo an array of community benefits valued at over
$30 million dollars. We take great pride in this new neighborhood and hope the City shares our pride.

We are requesting an extension of the Development Agreement to allow us to complete the development
as originally envisioned. The pandemic has delayed our ability to complete the development of the final
two blocks (Mixed-Use Blocks 2 and 3) by causing ongoing disruption in the office and financing
markets. We have approved Site Plan and Architectural Review plans for both of these blocks which
include both housing and office development. The housing is integral to the existing residential
development at Bay Meadows and includes 7 below market rate units. The office is an important
expansion opportunity for our existing tenant base and offers ground floor retail space along Delaware
Street as well as a future location for a childcare facility.

The Bay Meadows Specific Plan establishes the underlying zoning for property; should markets change in
the future, we will continue to rely on the Specific Plan and Design Guidelines.

Thank you for your consideration of our request. We are available to answer any questions.

Sincerely,

Jafiice Thacher
wilsonmeany.com Four Embarcadero Center, Sulte 3330 tT 415905 5300
a San Francisco, CA 94111 F 415905 5350

361 of 460


--- page 362 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Rendell Bustos
Sent:
Tuesday, October 10, 2023 4:07 PM
To:
Rae Parnmukh
Cc:
Clerk; Emily Lesk; Lisa Costa-Sanders; Manira Sandhir; paul@stockbridge.com
Subject:
RE: PA-2023-050 / Bay Meadows Agreement Extension and Annual Review - Homeowner questions
Hi Rae, 
 
Thanks for the additional comments below and for discussing the agenda item with me just now over the phone. I will 
forward this email thread to the Planning Commission for their consideration at tonight’s Public Hearing. 
 
-Rendell 
 
Rendell Bustos 
Senior Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org  
  
 
 
 
 
 
From: Rae Parnmukh 
  
Sent: Tuesday, October 10, 2023 3:51 PM 
To: Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; Emily Lesk <ELesk@wilsonmeany.com>; Lisa Costa-Sanders 
<lcostasanders@cityofsanmateo.org>; Manira Sandhir <msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org>; paul@stockbridge.com 
Subject: Re: PA-2023-050 / Bay Meadows Agreement Extension and Annual Review - Homeowner questions 
 
Hi, 
 
Just spoke to Rendell, thank you for the call. 
 
With regards to the meeting tonight, my main concern will be the following; 
- Visual impact of the pits not being developed and finished speedily. Granted I am sure all parties will take effort to 
complete the build out as is possible. 
- Impact of the pits on the home valuations. Expecting that when the pits are fully built out, home values will rise due to 
the completion of the community.  
 
I did ask if there would be some concessions to the city or homeowners due to the delay in buildout.  If it is possible to 
impose a fee for this extension or if it is again requested in three years, that would give both the city and the 
homeowners some confidence that the pits won’t be everlasting. 
 
 
Thank you, 
Raewadee Parnmukh 
 
Would still like a reply from Wilson Meany on the other aspects I brought up if possible. 
 
362 of 460

--- page 363 ---
2
On Tue, Oct 10, 2023 at 14:07 Rae Parnmukh 
 wrote: 
Sure, that would help a lot. Apologies as I am not generally that active in City matters, so clarification on the agenda 
and how it works, what is the main takeaway - verbally will be useful. 
 
Could you try calling me between 3:35pm and 3:45pm? 
 
If I am available, I will answer. 
 
I have a window between meetings at 3:30 to 4pm. 
 
 
 
Thanks, 
Rae 
 
 
 
 
On Tue, Oct 10, 2023 at 13:30 Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Hi Rae, 
  
The full packet with the attachments is attached. I think it would be helpful if we discussed this agenda item over the 
phone to clarify the items being considered this evening. Can you let me know your best phone number and when 
you’d be available? I am available today after 3:30 pm.  
  
In case we are not able to connect on the phone, there will be a public comment period for tonight’s Public Hearing 
but the Planning Commission does not have authority in matters regarding the Homeowners Association. You are able 
to join the meeting in-person at the City Hall Council Chambers or join the Zoom 
(www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings) and can comment freely on the agenda topic. 
  
Lastly, I would emphasize that Wilson Meany staff have been cc’d in this correspondence who are reviewing your 
questions and will provide a response, since Homeowners Association matters are their purview.  
  
-Rendell 
  
363 of 460

--- page 364 ---
Rendell Bustos
Senior Planner | Community Development Department

330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403

650-522-7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.or

eocHko

From: Rae Parnmukh

Sent: Tuesday, October 10, 2023 12:16 PM

To: Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; Emily Lesk <ELesk@wilsonmeany.com>; Lisa Costa-Sanders
<lcostasanders@cityofsanmateo.org>; paul@stockbridge.com

Subject: Re: PA-2023-050 / Bay Meadows Agreement Extension and Annual Review - Homeowner questions

Hi,

Could you provide:

Att 1—- Resolution with Findings for Annual Review

Att 2 — Draft Ordinance with Amendment to the Development Agreement

Att 3 — Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 17 (2005) Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement

Att 4— Extension Request Letter

Att 5 — Bay Meadows Phase II DA Annual Review Matrix

ls Bay Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC (“Owner”), just another name for Wilson Meany? Or are the entities
completely unrelated?

364 of 460


--- page 365 ---
4
  
As an owner, I am concerned that these pits will remain undeveloped for three more years.  
  
Will tonight’s meeting be the correct forum to express that concern? 
  
As a homeowner in the community, what position is available to me, to hold the approval of this request gating 
further information to be provided in the HOA regard? 
  
Thank you, 
Rae 
  
On Tue, Oct 10, 2023 at 10:22 Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Hi Rae, 
  
Attached is the staff report for tonight’s Planning Commission Public Hearing, which is not related to the 
Homeowner’s Association board composition. Tonight’s Public Hearing is focused on a request to extend the 
Development Agreement, which is an agreement between the City of San Mateo and the land owner to develop the 
Bay Meadows Phase II area. This meeting will be viewable online and will be recorded (please see 
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings). 
  
Emily Lesk from Wilson Meany is coordinating on her end to respond to the questions focused on the HOA. These 
questions are not in the purview of the City or Planning Commission. I hope this helps clarify – let me know if you 
have further questions for City staff. 
  
Thanks, 
Rendell 
  
365 of 460

--- page 366 ---
Rendell Bustos
Senior Planner | Community Development Department

330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403

650-522-7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.or

eocHno

From: Rae Parnmukh

Sent: Tuesday, October 10, 2023 8:10 AM

To: Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc: Emily Lesk <ELesk@wilsonmeany.com>; Lisa Costa-Sanders <lcostasanders@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk

<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; paul@stockbridge.com
Subject: Re: PA-2023-050 / Bay Meadows Agreement Extension and Annual Review - Homeowner questions

Hi Rendell,

Thanks for the reply, if there is another Wilson Meany rep that can be added to this email it may help since Emily is
one of the board members so may not be impartial.

As part of the this meeting will it be reviewed and recorded, how many units remain to be built that would be sold to
homeowners such that a title would be transferred and recorded from the Declarant or Builder to a homeowner?

This information would answer my question. | believe it is zero since there was prior planning committee approval
that converted what was originally planned to be condos and flats to leased units.

Again it is my thought that with the remaining lots to be built out, Wilson Meany should no longer hold seats on the
HOA Board, and | am looking for the information that proves otherwise.

Is it possible to obtain the documents to be reviewed in the meeting today by pdf or html? | was not able to locate
them on the web

366 of 460


--- page 367 ---
Thanks,

Rae

On Tue, Oct 10, 2023 at 07:50 Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:

Good morning Raewadee,

Thank you for cc’ing City staff in your email. | believe your questions would be best addressed by Wilson Meany
staff, so | will look to Wilson Meany to assist you from here.

If you have any questions or comments regarding the Development Agreement Extension or Annual Review being
considered at tonight’s Planning Commission Public Hearing, please let me know.

-Rendell

Rendell Bustos
Senior Planner | Community Development Department

330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403

650-522-7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.or

eOocHo

From: Rae Parnmukh

Sent: Monday, October 9, 2023 5:48 PM

To: Emily Lesk <ELesk@wilsonmeany.com>; paul @stockbridge.com; Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org>;
Lisa Costa-Sanders <Icostasanders@cityofsanmateo.org>; clerk@cityofsanmateo.or

Subject: PA-2023-050 / Bay Meadows Agreement Extension and Annual Review - Homeowner questions

Received the notice in the mail regarding the hearing.

367 of 460


--- page 368 ---
7
As a homeowner in Bay Meadows since 2015, I have been waiting for the HomeOwners Association to be turned 
over to the homeowners fully. 
I have expressed continued concern that the Bay Meadows Homeowners Association is ill-formed with Wilson 
Meany representatives holding the majority of the seats,(3) on the Board.  This has provided Wilson Meany 
unilateral control in decisions that impact homeowners the most. 
  
As part of the review, can it be recorded, what is the ownership interest Wilson Meany has in the "Covered 
Property" or "Annexable territory"?   
  
Without ownership interest, is Wilson Meany correct to hold majority or any board seats in the Bay Meadows 
Homeowners association? 
  
With ownership described, does this extension, also extend their power over the Homeowner's Association for at 
minimum another three years? 
  
All of my concerns, are governed by the following: 
In the Bay Meadows CC&Rs in  
Section 6.3 Classes of Voting Membership 
Section 6.4 Voting Rights 
  
But most specifically BYLAWS OF BAY MEADOWS COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION ARTICLE 2  
  
2.2 QUALIFICATIONS FOR HOLDING OFFICE. Each Director, except for those initially appointed by Declarant to serve 
as interim Directors until the first annual meeting,must be (a) an Owner who meets the qualifications in this Section 
2.2 or, (b) an agent of Declarant or an agent of a Neighborhood Builder for so long as Declarant or a Neighborhood 
Builder owns or has any interest in any portion of the Covered Property or any portion of the Annexable Territory, 
or (c) appointed to office by exercise of the Class C Board appointment right.  
  
2.3.1 Term for Appointee Directors. Notwithstanding anything in these 
Bylaws to the contrary, all Directors appointed at any time by exercise of the Class C Board 
appointment right shall serve until the earlier of: 
(a) Removal of Director by Declarant; 
(b) The date of the appointed Director’s death or resignation from the Board of Directors; 
368 of 460

--- page 369 ---
8
(c) The date that is three (3) years after the date on which the Class C Board appointment right expires; or 
(d) The date on which Declarant no longer owns any portion of the Covered Property or Annexable Territory. 
  
It has been confirmed that there is no longer a Class C Board appointment right, the date as to when this expired 
cannot be obtained from the Board. I believe it was 2020, if this date can be recorded in the review that would be 
helpful as well. 
  
  
Thanks, 
Raewadee Parnmukh 
 
  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended only for the 
use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited 
from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of 
this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the 
original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments 
from your computer. Thank you.  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended only for the 
use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited 
from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of 
this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the 
original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments 
from your computer. Thank you.  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended only for the 
use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited 
from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of 
this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the 
original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments 
from your computer. Thank you.  
369 of 460

--- page 370 ---
Bay Meadows Phase II Development 
Agreement Extension Request
(PA-2023-050)
City Council Public Hearing
November 6, 2023
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner
Community Development Department
370 of 460

--- page 371 ---
BAY MEADOWS 
PHASE II DA
2
Bay Meadows Phase II Overview
Extension Request
Public Input
Recommendation
371 of 460

--- page 372 ---
3
Bay Meadows 
Phase II
1,048 Residential 
Units
1.2 Million Sq. Ft. 
Office
Bay Meadows Phase II Overview
Extension Request
Public Input
Recommendation
BAY MEADOWS 
PHASE II DA
Development 
Agreement
15 Acres of Public 
Parks
$1.5 Million Financial 
Contributions
18-Year Term
372 of 460

--- page 373 ---
4
Three-year extension request
•Extends term to December 20, 2026
•Extends term from 18 years to 21 years
Purpose of extension
•Caused by COVID-19 pandemic
•Delayed ability to complete final two blocks (MU 2 and 
MU 3)
No other changes to project or Development Agreement
•City is not imposing further exactions (Section 3.8)
•Project remains consistent with Specific Plans, General 
Plan, Zoning Code
Planning Commission Recommendation
•Recommended City Council approval by vote of 5-0
Bay Meadows Phase II Overview
Extension Request
Public Input
Recommendation
BAY MEADOWS 
PHASE II DA
373 of 460

--- page 374 ---
5
Bay Meadows Phase II Overview
Extension Request
Public Input
Recommendation
BAY MEADOWS 
PHASE II DA
Public Noticing
•Postcard mailing (1000-foot radius)
•Placards posted on-site
•Newspaper posting
Public Comments
•Received one public comment before Planning 
Commission regarding Homeowners Association and 
upkeep of remaining vacant lots.
Forwarded to applicant to respond to Homeowners 
Association inquiry
Condition of Approval: “Aesthetics During 
Construction” 
374 of 460

--- page 375 ---
6
Bay Meadows Phase II Overview
Extension Request
Public Input
Recommendation
BAY MEADOWS 
PHASE II DA
Introduce an Ordinance to approve a three-year 
extension of the Bay Meadows Phase II Development 
Agreement.
375 of 460

--- page 376 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  20
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-4679
File ID: 23-8132
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Wet Weather Preparations – Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an update on the City's wet weather preparations. 
BACKGROUND:
City staff have been engaging in a variety of actions to prepare for the upcoming rainy season. Many of these activities 
were presented to Council at the August 21, 2023 meeting, including actions for which additional resources were 
subsequently allocated by Council for implementation. The following sections provide an overview of the status of each of 
the actions presented to Council on August 21, as well as additional actions staff have been implementing that were not 
included in that presentation. Staff will also provide a summary presentation of the material in this report. Note that the 
categorization and lettering/numbering of the following items correlates to how they were presented at the August 21, 
2023 meeting.  
Immediate-Term Actions (No Additional Resources Required)
A.
Additional Marina Lagoon Pump Station pump vibration analysis at summer lagoon levels
a.
This action is complete.
B.
Develop Marina Lagoon Alternatives Analysis for Pumping Below 95 feet
a.
City staff have executed an amendment to Schaaf & Wheeler’s existing agreement to evaluate alternatives 
including 1) contracting for a detailed hydraulic intake analysis to determine if existing pumps can safely 
lower the water level beyond standard winter operating levels, 2) installing a temporary rental pump 
system, 3) using one existing pump/gearbox/engine as a “sacrificial” pump with increased monitoring and 
anticipated replacement, and 4) constructing a new low-flow pump station adjacent to the existing pump 
station with pumps properly sized for lowering the lagoon levels below 95 feet.  
C.
Install debris rack at 4000 Pacific Boulevard Pump Station
a.
This action is complete.
D. Provide data on City’s website for Marina Lagoon levels and pumps running
a.
This action is nearly complete, with a beta version undergoing review and improvement by Public Works 
and Information Technology staff. Staff anticipate public roll-out of a public-facing webpage by December 
1, 2023.
E.
Implement additional safety systems for trash rack cleaning at Marina Lagoon Pump Station
a.
This action is complete.
F.
Develop a RFP to update the 2004 Storm Drain Master Plan and develop a prioritized implementation strategy
376 of 460

--- page 377 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
a.
This action is underway, and combined with Short-Term Item 7, below, to perform a LiDAR aerial survey, 
as the survey data will feed directly into updated hydrologic and hydraulic modeling for the Master Plan.  
G. Inspect and clean all City-owned trash capture devices
a.
This action is underway. All downtown trash capture devices have been cleaned, the remaining 
approximately 100 catch basins with trash capture devices are being cleaned with the overall catch basin 
cleaning work under Immediate-Term Actions Item 3, below.  
H. Inspect and clean all City-owned trash racks
a.
This action is underway – nearly all trash racks have been inspected and cleaned.  The Laurelwood Dam 
trash rack is scheduled in the coming weeks and the Marina Lagoon Pump Station trash rack will be 
scraped for barnacles after November 1 when the lagoon level is lowered one foot toward winter 
operating levels.  
I.
Inspect and clean all storm pump station wet wells
a.
This action is underway, with multiple stations already cleaned, and others scheduled for after November 
1 when the Marina Lagoon is pumped down a foot toward winter operating levels.  
J.
Prepare traffic control/closures and stage materials for roads with known flooding concerns
a.
This action is underway, staff have already staged materials for road closures at key locations, including 
water walls and signs, and have other materials ready to deploy at the City’s Corporation Yard and storage 
yard on Ivy Road. Staff will have a mobile trailer pre-loaded with closure materials that can be readily 
deployed from the Corporation Yard, as needed.    
K.
Coordinate with Office of Emergency Services on wet weather planning and training
a.
This action is ongoing. City staff has met with Office of Emergency Services (OES) staff on multiple 
occasions to collaborate on development of a near-term Wet Weather Emergency Action Plan and a 
longer-term updated overall Emergency Action Plan for all potential disasters. Staff have provided 
supporting materials on Public Works wet weather preparation and planning activities to support OES’ 
efforts in developing the near-term document. 
L.
Work with community on Marina Lagoon Pump Station Standard Operating Procedures
a.
This action is nearing completion. Public Works staff have met with community volunteers with expertise 
in developing Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) on numerous occasions to draft new SOPs for the 
Marina Lagoon Pump Station. To date, six chapters have been drafted.  
M. Establish a Marina Lagoon Resident Flood Watch communication program
a.
This action is in progress. Staff are working with key Marina Lagoon representatives on communication 
and notification protocols/criteria to ensure residents can properly keep City staff informed of any lagoon 
issues during the rainy season.
N. Coordinate improved public outreach and messaging on emergency preparations
a.
This action is ongoing. A robust public information effort about stormwater issues and public safety 
preparedness was conducted as part of the Community Flood and Storm Protection Initiative leading up to 
Council’s action on the ballot. The City will continue to share safety messaging and emergency 
preparedness actions via City digital and print communication platforms. Staff are working on planning 
additional print mailings and digital communications to residents about ways they can prepare, and will 
provide updates on the City’s flood preparation web page as a hub of resources for the community. Staff 
will work to share this information with community partners for help disseminating these important public 
safety messages. Staff are also working with OES on notification procedures in the event of an emergency 
and will encourage residents to sign up for SMC Alerts and Nixle. 
Immediate-Term Actions
1.
Perform maintenance on all five diesel engines, upgrade wiring, programming, and alarms, and purchase a spare 
pump lubricator system at Marina Lagoon Pump Station 
a.
Engine maintenance is ongoing. One engine has been serviced to date, and three more have been 
scheduled. Unfortunately, supply chain issues have delayed scheduling maintenance activities while 
377 of 460

--- page 378 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Cummins, the engine manufacturer, secures the required parts for maintaining the engines. Staff will need 
to closely monitor the weather forecast to determine if it is safe to proceed with maintenance on any 
engines that is currently scheduled later this calendar year. It is important to note the engines will 
continue to operate as normal, regardless of when the maintenance takes place.  
b.
Upgrades to the wiring, programming, and alarms is underway, with much of the wiring and programming 
work being done by Telstar and Thunderbird already complete. Insurance issues delayed execution of a 
contract with Enterprise Automation but have since been resolved and a contract specific to the Marina 
Lagoon Pump Station is being executed under the City Manager’s authority, with a larger amendment to 
address other City needs coming to Council on November 20. Staff anticipates the bulk of the wiring and 
programming work, to include updated level sensing equipment, will be done by November 15, with the 
alarm work by Enterprise Automation being finished by December 1.  
c.
A spare pump lubricator system has been ordered and is being fabricated, with expected delivery in the 
coming weeks.  
d.
Upgrades to the cathodic protection system that helps prevent corrosion to the pumps have been 
contracted and new equipment is on order and will be installed in the coming weeks.
2.
Deploy up to five (5) Sand Bag stations throughout the City for upcoming rainy season, with focus on areas with 
history of flooding, and coordinate with community volunteers for filling bags, monitoring stations 
a.
Staff deployed four Sand Bag stations as of October 14, one at the Anchor Road parking lot near the Bay 
Trail, one in the parking lot of Parkside Aquatic Park, one in the parking lot at the City’s Corporation Yard, 
and one in the parking lot of Beresford Park. Staff is continuing to explore opportunities for community 
volunteers to support monitoring the stations.  
3.
Inspect and clean all catch basins before rainy season and recurring cleaning at hot spots throughout rainy season
a.
Public Works staff has been working diligently on cleaning catch basins east of Highway 101. As of the 
writing of this report, staff have cleaned approximately 1,400 catch basins, focused in areas east of 
Highway 101. Staff anticipate having all catch basins east of El Camino Real cleaned within the next month. 
Staff continues to pursue outside contract support for cleaning catch basins but has had difficulty finding 
contractors that are available and can perform the work for a reasonable cost.  
Short-Term Actions
4.
Localized lagoon maintenance dredging under existing permit 
a.
This action is still pending. Staff will begin RFP development for this initiative this month.
5.
Localized, small-scale drainage improvements
a.
This action is still pending, but staff anticipate developing a package of priority locations to put out to bid 
in the coming months.  
6.
Camera monitoring of priority creeks/trash racks
a.
This action is still pending.
7.
LiDAR aerial survey (Ground surface, creeks, and lagoon bathymetric)
a.
This action, as described above, is being integrated into a Request for Proposals to update the City’s Storm 
Drain Master Plan. Staff anticipate having the RFP advertising for response in the next month.   
Mid-Term Actions
8.
Storm Drain Master Plan update
a.
This action is still pending, but a Request for Proposals is under development as described above and will 
be advertising for response in the next month. Staff did identify $600,000 of approved funds to begin work 
on updating the Master Plan, in addition to the funds Council appropriated for the LiDAR aerial survey.  
9.
Marina Lagoon dredging: Design, environmental, and permitting
a.
This action is still pending and connected to getting updated LiDAR aerial survey data to have updated 
bathymetry information for the Marina Lagoon. 
Additional Activities
378 of 460

--- page 379 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
Staff submitted Water Resources Development Act questionnaires to Senator Padilla for key storm drain/flood 
control infrastructure improvements and Marina Lagoon dredging. Staff continues working with the City’s 
legislative advocate to pursue potential earmark and/or grant funding for key projects.  As part of his "Day in the 
District” visit to the City of San Mateo, staff brought Congressmember Kevin Mullin to the south end of the Marina 
Lagoon to see the impacts of sedimentation and highlight the need for potential federal support of future dredging 
activities. 
•
Staff submitted requests to the various resource agencies for emergency approval of creek/channel cleaning 
efforts at key locations and is in the process of securing consultant support to pursue a multi-year jurisdictional 
permit to perform creek/channel maintenance on an ongoing basis for sections that are owned/maintained by the 
City. Staff continues to collaborate with OneShoreline’s grant-funded project to secure resources agency permits 
for maintenance activities on multiple creek segments in San Mateo County, including multiple segments of San 
Mateo Creek.  
•
Staff proceeded with Council’s direction to pursue the Community Flood and Storm Protection Initiative. Staff 
engaged the community through a number of activities, including hosting a table at all five General Plan Town Hall 
meetings. The Council held a public hearing on the proposed stormwater fee on October 16, at which time it was 
determined a majority protest against the fee did not exist, and staff prepared the ballot and associated guide for 
mailing on November 1. Ballots are due December 17, 2023, and staff anticipate bringing the results to Council in 
January 2024.  
•
For weather-related events, San Mateo Consolidated (SMC) Fire assesses potential impacts ahead of the event and 
responds accordingly. For potentially excessive wet weather periods, SMC Fire may add crews to offset high call 
volumes and provide specialized equipment needed for water rescues and flooding situations. SMC Fire will also 
place Command Staff personnel on standby to assist with operational requirements as needed. Additionally, on a 
regional level, SMC Fire may participate in the prepositioning of county wide OES resources that are combined and 
made available to assist with jurisdictional needs throughout the county and the region. Police and San Mateo 
Consolidated Fire will be appropriately staffed to respond to calls for service and staff the Emergency Operations 
Center if necessary.
•
On November 1, 2023, City staff hosted a cross departmental team meeting regarding storm preparation and 
response activities. The meeting included representatives from the Fire Department, Office of Emergency 
Management, Police Department, Public Works Department, Parks and Recreation Department, City Manager‘s 
Office and Community Development Department. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this information update. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Matt Fabry, Deputy Director
mfabry@cityofsanmateo.org
650 522 7309
379 of 460

--- page 380 ---
Wet Weather 
Preparations
Informational Update
Matt Fabry, P.E.
Deputy Director – Public Works Department
1 of 21
380 of 460

--- page 381 ---
Council Feedback & Direction
This is an informational update only, general City Council 
feedback is welcome.
2 of 21
381 of 460

--- page 382 ---
Stormwater System
When it rains, EVERYONE in San Mateo relies on our stormwater system. It comprises: 
130 miles
of storm drain 
pipes, 6,000 catch 
basins
20 miles
open creeks 
& drainage 
channels 
(public & private)
1
flood control lagoon
(Marina Lagoon)
10
pump stations
3 of 21
382 of 460

--- page 383 ---
•
North Shoreview/Pump Stations District
•
San Mateo Creek
•
Third & Detroit Pump Station
•
16th Avenue/Leslie Creek 
•
19th Avenue/Borel Creek
•
Laurel Creek
•
Mariners Island/Direct to Marina Lagoon
Background
Watersheds
Population
105,000
Area
12 sq. mi. 
land
Seven major watersheds
4 of 21
383 of 460

--- page 384 ---
Immediate-term Actions
5 of 21
 
Project/Task 
A 
Additional Marina Lagoon Pump Station pump vibration analysis at summer lagoon levels  
B 
Develop Marina Lagoon Alternatives Analysis for Pumping Below 95’ 
C 
Install debris rack at 4000 Pacific Boulevard Pump Station 
D Provide data on City’s website for Marina Lagoon levels and pumps running 
E 
Implement additional safety systems for trash rack cleaning at Marina Lagoon Pump Station 
F 
Develop an RFP to update the 2004 Storm Drain Master Plan and develop a prioritized implementation strategy 
G Inspect and clean all City-owned trash capture devices 
H Inspect and clean all City-owned trash racks 
I 
Inspect and clean all storm pump station wet wells 
J 
Prepare traffic control/closures and stage materials for roads with known flooding concerns 
K 
Coordinate with Office of Emergency Services on wet weather planning and training 
L 
Work with community on Marina Lagoon Pump Station Standard Operating Procedures 
M Establish a Marina Lagoon Resident Flood Watch communication program  
N Coordinate improved public outreach and messaging on emergency preparations 
384 of 460

--- page 385 ---
6 of 21
Marina Lagoon Levels & 
Pump Status Dashboard
385 of 460

--- page 386 ---
Draft Request 
for Proposals 
for Storm 
Drain Master 
Plan 
Update/LiDAR
 of 21
386 of 460

--- page 387 ---
Before
 
 
8 of 21
Storm Pump 
Stations -
Wet Well 
Cleaning
After
 
 
387 of 460

--- page 388 ---
——
Le |
LF

a i
OI) se,
\Y ie

es

€

aan a a

=

CITY OF SAN MATEO

388 of 460



--- page 389 ---
Outreach, Education, & Engagement
Winter Storm Preparedness Campaign
•
Print & electronic mailers
•
Social media  
•
Rain barrel rebate program
•
Adopt a Drain Program 
www.cityofsanmateo.org/AdoptADrain
•
Continue to use emergency alert 
systems, as needed (SMC Alert & Nixle)
www.cityofsanmateo.org/floodprep 
www.cityofsanmateo.org/stormwater 
10
389 of 460

--- page 390 ---
Immediate-term Actions
11 of 21
1
Perform maintenance on all five diesel engines, upgrade wiring, 
programming, and alarms, and purchase a spare pump lubricator 
system at Marina Lagoon Pump Station 
2
Deploy up to five (5) Sand Bag stations throughout the City for 
upcoming rainy season, with focus on areas with history of flooding, 
and coordinate with community volunteers for filling bags, monitoring 
stations 
3
Inspect and clean all catch basins before rainy season and recurring 
cleaning at hot spots throughout rainy season 
390 of 460

--- page 391 ---
\ \ WAV |
\ \\\ \

Wi \

H it!

SAN MATEO

Wii i\!

391 of 460


--- page 392 ---
Marina Lagoon Pump Station

ern ny|

eo See |
a:

el
——— CITY OF ity

392 of 460 i



--- page 393 ---
14 of 21
Sandbag Stations
Anchor Road Lot
 
 
Corporation Yard
 
 
Beresford Park Lot 
 
Parkside Aquatic Park Lot
 
 
393 of 460

--- page 394 ---
15 of 21
Sandbag Stations
www.cityofsanmateo.org/sandbags 
394 of 460

--- page 395 ---
SAN MATEO

395 of 460


--- page 396 ---
Short- and Mid-term actions
17 of 21
 
4 Localized lagoon maintenance dredging under existing permit  
5 Localized, small-scale drainage improvements  
6 Camera monitoring of priority creeks/trash racks  
7 LiDAR aerial survey (Ground surface, creeks, & lagoon bathymetric) 
8 Storm Water Master Plan Update  
 
Model Update, Alternatives Analysis, Prioritization, Report  
 
Storm Drain Condition Assessment  
 
Pump Station Condition Assessment 
9 Marina Lagoon Dredging: Design, Environmental, & Permitting 
 
Environmental Study 
 
Permitting 
 
Design 
 Localized Lagoon Maintenance Dredging Under Existing Permit 
396 of 460

--- page 397 ---
Status of Appropriations
18 of 21
OPERATING BUDGET 
SPEND CATEGORY
MARINA LAGOON WET WEATHER PREPARATION
ENCUMBERED/
SPENT
Other Contractual Services
500,000
132,000 
481,410
Maintenance & Repairs - Equipment Services
27,000 
Maintenance & Repairs - Materials, Parts, & Supplies
 
50,000 
9,000
Rents & Leases of Equipment
 
66,000 
Salaries - Regular
125,000 
90,000
TOTAL
500,000 
400,000 
Supplier
Description of Services
Amount
Liquidated
Remaining
Cummins
Marina Lagoon Engine Maintenance
303,562.87
303,562.87
Telstar
Marina Lagoon Pump Control Upgrades
96,888.87
8,554.50
88,334.37
Enterprise Automation 
Marina Lagoon SCADA Programming
40,804.00
40,804.00
Exim Engineering
Marina Lagoon Pump Automatic Lubricator
27,454.53
27,454.53
JDH Corrosion Consultants
Purchase of Cathodic Protection Auto-Potential Rectifier
12,700.00
12,700.00
TOTAL 481,410.27
8,554.50
472,855.77 
Capital Project Appropriation - Project 46c006:  ($2,100,000)
4 Localized lagoon maintenance dredging under existing permit 
5 Localized, small-scale drainage improvements 
6 Camera monitoring of priority creeks/trash racks 
7 LiDAR aerial survey (Ground surface, creeks, & lagoon bathymetric)
397 of 460

--- page 398 ---
19 of 21
San Mateo Creek
Crystal Springs Reservoir
SFPUC/OneShoreline
398 of 460

--- page 399 ---
Community Safety Tips
20 of 21
• Prepare in advance – get sandbags & any supplies early, 
charge devices 
• Sandbag info at: www.cityofsanmateo.org/sandbags 
• Clear gutters around your home 
• Check sump pumps on your property 
• Remove belongings from areas that flooded in the past
• Adopt-a-Drain to help keep storm drains near your home 
clear & report clogged drains 
• Stay in the know – follow weather updates, 
sign up for alerts (Nixle.com & SMCAlert.org)
• Avoid driving during storms if you can & NEVER DRIVE 
THROUGH A FLOODED ROAD
• Visit www.cityofsanmateo.org/floodprep 
399 of 460

--- page 400 ---
Council Feedback & Direction
This is an informational update only, general City 
Council feedback is welcome.
21 of 21
400 of 460

--- page 401 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  21
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 23-8164
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Prasanna W. Rasiah, City Attorney
PREPARED BY:
City Attorney’s Office
MEETING DATE:
November 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Campaign Finance – Voluntary Expenditure Limit – Ordinance Introduction
RECOMMENDATION:
Introduce an Ordinance adding Section 2.80.055 “Voluntary Expenditure Limit” to San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.80 
“Contributions and Loans to City Candidate Campaigns,” amending various sections related to recall elections and 
aggregation of contributions, and adding a provision requiring the filing of campaign mass mailings if directed by the City 
Council; and provide direction to staff regarding candidate filing costs.
BACKGROUND:
At its Fiscal Year 2022-23 Goal Setting, the City Council directed staff to study campaign finance reform policies, including a 
voluntary expenditure limit. On September 5, 2023, the City Council held a study session regarding potential amendments 
to San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.80 “Contributions and Loans to City Candidate Campaigns” and provided direction 
regarding voluntary expenditure limits, among other matters. The Council also considered whether to require campaign 
mailers to be filed with the City and requested additional information. City staff proposed making changes to Chapter 2.80 
that address recall elections and aggregation of campaign contributions, and these are addressed below. If approved, the 
proposed ordinance would go into effect on January 1, 2024, in order to be consistent with campaign reporting periods.
Staff is seeking Council feedback this evening on the following questions: 
1.
Does the Council agree with the proposed municipal code changes as shown in the draft ordinance?  
2.
Does the Council wish to add a provision that requires campaign mailers to be filed with the City? 
3.
Should the City no longer charge candidates for the cost candidate statements?  
DISCUSSION:
Voluntary Expenditure Limit
The proposed voluntary expenditure limit (“VEL”) would codify an optional spending threshold wherein candidates would 
indicate their intention to abide by the limit when submitting their nomination documents during the candidate filing 
period. Candidates that accept the VEL will have one opportunity to notify the City Clerk that they have decided to decline 
the expenditure limit during a three-business day withdrawal period after the deadline to file nomination papers.  
The listed benefits of accepting this limit are (1) the City’s website will identify such candidates, (2) the City will publish a 
list of these candidates in its regular digital newsletter twice (once after the withdrawal period and once when ballots are 
mailed), and (3) the City will publish notices in a newspaper of general circulation a list of candidates that agreed to the 
limit. A violation of the VEL municipal code provision will result in the City publicizing the violation by the same methods 
401 of 460

--- page 402 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
within 72 hours of the City’s knowledge.
Based on direction from a majority of the Council, the VEL would be calculated on the basis of $2.50 per resident in each 
electoral district, as indicated in the chart below. The amount of the limit, rounded to the nearest $100, would be 
published on the City’s website and in a newspaper of general circulation within 60 business days of ordinance adoption. 
The limit would be adjusted every two years starting on January 1, 2026, based on changes in the consumer price index 
(CPI), considering 2023 as the base year. 
District 1
District 2
District 3
District 4
District 5
District Population Based on 2020 U.S. Census
21,572
21,589
21,061
19,873
21,709
District Population x $2.50
$53,900
$54,000
$52,700
$49,700
$54,200
There are exceptions to the VEL, namely for filing fees, returned contributions, legal expenses, non-monetary 
contributions, post office box expenses, and post-election party expenses, all similar to the ordinance adopted by 
Redwood City.
Recall Elections 
Municipal Code Chapter 2.80 requires amendments to align with changes in the law governing recall elections. Assembly 
Bill (AB) 2584 (2022) amended the process whereby a recall election occurs. Historically, the questions of whether an 
elected officer shall be removed from office and who should be their successor have been put to the voters in the form of 
one measure. (Note that the San Mateo City Charter does not provide for elections to fill a vacancy, leaving that decision 
to the Council and ultimately the Mayor, as specified.) However, AB 2584 changed this practice by removing the question 
of the officer’s successor from the recall election. Instead, the seat would remain vacant until the agency is able to fill the 
vacancy in accordance with its process for doing so. 
In addition, recall committees are more akin to ballot measure committees than candidate committees, in that the issue 
submitted to the voters is whether an elected official should be recalled, and not who should fill the vacancy upon a 
successful recall.  For these reasons, and based on court decisions, recall elections are not subject to candidate 
contribution limits. Accordingly, the draft ordinance amendment removes language addressing recall elections from the 
definition of a candidate and the basis provision imposing contribution limits. It also clarifies that Chapter 2.80 does not 
apply to recall elections. These changes can be easily seen in Attachment 2, which shows revisions in a redline format.
Aggregation of Contributions
The proposed ordinance also clarifies that aggregated contributions are subject to the $1,000 contribution limit. This 
clarification is needed as the existing code provides for two different contribution limits ($500 for individuals and $1,000 
for organizations) but does not specify which limit applies when contributions are aggregated. Contributions by an 
individual are aggregated with contributions from organizations that the individual directs or controls. Also, contributions 
by two or more organizations are aggregated if they are directed or controlled by a majority of the same persons.
Potential Requirement to File Campaign Mailers (Mass Mailings)
During the September 5, 2023, study session, the Council discussed whether to require campaign mailers (also known as 
mass mailings) regarding City candidates and measures to be filed with the City. While there are practical enforcement 
challenges as previously indicated by staff, some other cities have such a requirement. 
For example, the City of Berkeley requires a copy of every mass mailing in support of or in opposition to a city candidate or 
measure to be sent to its election commission. BMC §2.12.325. Berkeley staff explained that enforcement against non-
filers is complaint-driven, and that its election commission hears complaints. Their staff does not track staff time spent on 
mass mailings, and Berkeley’s rules only cover items sent through the U.S. mail, which is only a small fraction of campaign 
communications to the public. An index of filed mailings is posted on their website. 
The term “mass mailing” is defined in state law as 200 or more substantially similar pieces of mail, but not including mail 
sent in response to an inquiry, as specified. Govt. §82041.5. San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.80 incorporates state 
402 of 460

--- page 403 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
law definitions in the California Political Reform Act, unless defined otherwise in the chapter.
If the Council chooses to require the filing of mass mailings with the City, it can when introducing the ordinance include 
optional language as shown in Attachment 1. New Section 2.08.057 would create a filing requirement, and related changes 
are set forth in Section 2.08.020 (adding a definition of a measure) and in Section 2.08.050 (modifying the current 
exclusion of measures from the scope of the chapter). 
Candidate Statement Filing Costs
The City Council also considered at its September study session whether to minimize the financial burden on candidates by 
eliminating costs associated with publishing a candidate statement in the County’s sample ballot and voter information 
guide. Standard practice for election administration at the municipal level has been to place the responsibility for the cost 
of the candidate statement on the candidate. If directed by the Council, the City could opt to absorb these costs. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with introducing the proposed ordinance. Absorbing candidate statement filing costs 
would cost approximately $3,500 per election cycle.  
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This ordinance introduction is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Ordinance 
Att 2 – Proposed Ordinance - Tracked Changes
Att 3 – Existing Ordinance – Chapter 2.80
STAFF CONTACT
Prasanna W. Rasiah, City Attorney
prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7020
403 of 460

--- page 404 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Amending Chapter 2.80 “Contributions and Loans to City Candidate Campaigns” to Add Section 2.80.055 
“Voluntary Expenditure Limit,” and Amend Various Sections Related to Recall Elections and Aggregation of 
Contributions
WHEREAS, on September 5, 2023, the City Council held a study session regarding potential amendments 
to San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.80 “Contributions and Loans to City Candidate Campaigns” and 
provided direction regarding voluntary expenditure limits; and
WHEREAS, the adoption of SMMC Section 2.80.055 “Voluntary Expenditure Limit” will allow City Council 
candidates an opportunity to voluntarily agree to expenditure limits in exchange for specified benefits; and
WHEREAS, various sections of Chapter 2.80 require amending to provide that contribution limits do not 
apply to recall elections, to make clarifying changes addressing the aggregation of contributions, and to make 
other revisions as directed by the City Council.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 2.80.055 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to read as follows:
2.80.055 VOLUNTARY EXPENDITURE LIMIT.
(a) Each candidate for election to the City Council in November 2024, and for each City Council election 
thereafter, shall, prior to the time they file their nomination papers with the city clerk, advise the city clerk in 
writing on a form provided by the City whether or not the candidate will opt to voluntarily limit their campaign 
expenditures in accordance with the voluntary campaign expenditure limits set forth in this section and by 
resolution.  The agreement to voluntarily limit campaign expenditures shall pertain to all expenditures incurred 
by the candidate or the candidate’s committee in support of their candidacy and shall include all such 
expenditures that a candidate or candidate’s committee is required to report pursuant to the California Political 
Reform Act of 1974, as amended, whether those expenditures are made before or after the filing of nomination 
papers.
(b) Withdrawal Period: within three (3) business days after the deadline to file nomination papers with 
the city clerk, a candidate that previously accepted the voluntary campaign expenditure limit will have one (1) 
opportunity to notify the city clerk that they have decided not to accept the voluntary campaign expenditure 
limit.  The candidate shall thereafter be relieved of abiding by the expenditure limit.
(c) Candidates who agree to abide by the voluntary campaign expenditure limit shall receive the 
following benefits and incentives at no cost to themselves:
(1) The City’s website will clearly identify which candidates have agreed to the voluntary 
expenditure limit.
404 of 460

--- page 405 ---
(2) The City will publish in its regular digital newsletter which candidates have agreed to the 
voluntary expenditure limit.  This will be published twice (once at the next publishing of said newsletter 
after the withdrawal period and once when the ballots are mailed to residents.)
(3) The City will publish notices in a newspaper of general circulation the candidates who agreed 
to the voluntary expenditure limit.
(d) Calculation of Voluntary Campaign Expenditure Limit.
(1) A candidate for district City Councilmember who voluntarily agrees to expenditure ceilings 
shall not make qualified expenditures exceeding two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) per resident in the 
electoral district for each election in which the candidate is seeking elective office.  Residency of each 
electoral district shall be determined by the latest decennial census population figures available for that 
district.  The City Clerk shall publish on its website and in a newspaper of general circulation the 
expenditure ceiling amount for each district, rounded to the nearest hundred dollars ($100), no later 
than sixty (60) business days following adoption of the ordinance from which this Section is derived.
(2) Beginning on January 1, 2026, the City Clerk shall in even-numbered years increase the 
expenditure ceiling amounts based upon a finding that the cost of living in the immediate San Francisco 
Bay Area, as shown on the CPI for all items in the San Francisco Bay Area as published by the U.S. 
Department of Labor, Bureau of Statistics, has increased. This increase shall be the cost-of-living 
adjustment (COLA) computed by reference to the CPI as indexed from a base year that commences in 
November 2023 (by way of example, on January 1, 2026, the City Clerk will adjust the voluntary 
expenditure ceiling amounts by determining the increase in CPI from November 2023— November 
2025). The increase shall be rounded to the nearest hundred dollars ($100). The City Clerk shall publish 
the adjusted expenditure ceiling amounts no later than February 1st of each even-numbered year.    
(3) The voluntary campaign expenditure limit called for by this section shall include any 
expenditures made by the candidate or by the candidate’s campaign committee in connection with the 
preparation and publication of the candidate’s statement of qualifications in the sample ballot pamphlet 
published in accordance with California Elections Code Section 13307.
(4) The following shall not count toward the voluntary campaign expenditure limit: 
(A) Filing fees related to the candidacy, including the candidate statement filing fee, fees 
paid to the Secretary of State to open or maintain a committee, and fees to translate the 
candidate statement.
(B) Contributions returned by the candidate within thirty (30) days of receipt.
(C) Legal fees and costs incurred in connection with litigation arising out of a campaign 
for City office.
(D) Non-monetary contributions as defined by the Fair Political Practices Commission. 
(E) Post-election party expenses.
405 of 460

--- page 406 ---
(F) Post office box expenses.
(e) Penalties: Any violation of this section, including the filing of false reports that entitle the candidate 
to the benefits conferred by this section, shall within seventy-two (72) hours of the City’s knowledge of the 
violation:
(1) Be posted on the City's website, and 
(2) Be posted in the City’s regular digital newsletter; and 
(3) Be forwarded to newspapers of general circulation for publication.
Section 2. Section 2.08.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:
2.08.020 DEFINITIONS.
As used in this chapter, the words and phrases shall be defined in the same manner as they are defined 
in the Political Reform Act of 1974 (including any amendments thereto) as found in California Government Code 
Section 81000 et seq., unless defined otherwise in this section. For the purposes of this chapter, the terms 
below are defined as follows:
(a) "Candidate" means any individual listed on the ballot for election to any City office, or who otherwise 
has taken affirmative action to seek election to City office, or who receives a contribution or makes an 
expenditure, or who gives his or her consent for any other person to receive a contribution or make an 
expenditure with the purpose of bringing about his or her election to any City office.   
[Subsections (b) – (e) remain unchanged]
(f)  [OPTIONAL] “Measure” means any City Charter amendment, ordinance or other proposition 
submitted to a popular vote at an election, whether by initiative, referendum or otherwise, or circulated for the 
purposes of submission to a popular vote at any election, whether or not the proposition qualifies for the ballot.
Section 3. Section 2.08.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:  
2.08.030 LIMITATIONS ON CONTRIBUTIONS.
(a) For any particular election, no individual shall make, and no candidate, candidate committee 
treasurer or other person acting on behalf of a candidate committee shall solicit or accept from any individual 
any contribution which will cause the total amount contributed by such individual to exceed $500.00.
(b) For any particular election, no organization shall make, and no candidate, candidate committee 
treasurer or other person acting on behalf of a candidate committee shall solicit or accept from any organization 
any contribution which will cause the total amount contributed by such organization to exceed $1,000.00.
[Subsections (c) and (d) remain unchanged]
406 of 460

--- page 407 ---
Section 4. Section 2.08.045 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:
2.08.045 AGGREGATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS.
[Subsections (a) – (d) remain unchanged]
(e)  Aggregated contributions under this section shall be subject to the $1000 contribution limit.
Section 5. Section 2.08.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:
2.08.050 CANDIDATE CAMPAIGNS ONLY.
The provisions of this chapter apply to election campaigns for candidates only. The provisions of this 
chapter do not apply to any recall, measure, referendum or initiative election [OPTIONAL: except as provided in 
Section 2.08.057].
[OPTIONAL SECTION 6 – MASS MAILINGS]
Section 6. Section 2.08.057 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to read as follows:
2.08.057 MASS MAILINGS – COPY TO CITY
A copy of every mass mailing in support of or in opposition to a candidate or measure shall be sent to 
the city clerk within one day of being mailed.    
Section 7. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3), this action is covered by the "common sense exemption" in that CEQA applies 
only to projects which have the potential to cause a significant effect on the environment. Here, it can be seen 
with certainty that adopting an ordinance amending campaign regulations will not have a significant effect on 
the environment.
Section 8.  Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 9. Publication. This ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 10. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective on January 1, 2024.
407 of 460

--- page 408 ---
Chapter 2.80 CONTRIBUTIONS AND LOANS TO CITY 
CANDIDATE CAMPAIGNS
2.80.010 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
(a) The City Council hereby finds that preserving integrity and openness in the political process 
is a matter of the highest public interest; that the people of the City of San Mateo can be better 
served through a more informed electorate; that the trust of the people is essential to 
representative government; and that regulation of certain campaign contributions and loans is 
necessary to promote public confidence in government and to protect the integrity of the electoral 
process.
(b) The City Council further finds that regulation of campaign contributions is required because 
the costs of running political campaigns have reached levels that lead to a public perception that 
special interests and wealthy individuals may have undue influence on or access to elected 
officials.
(c) It is the policy of the City to promote and encourage broad-based citizen involvement in the 
financing of election campaigns.
(d) The City Council further finds that allowing candidates to lend unlimited amounts of their 
personal funds to their campaigns tends to undermine public confidence in the election process, 
because the public may perceive that candidates with large outstanding loans will seek 
contributors to repay their loan after the election, and may be predisposed to favor their post- 
election contributors.
(e) Protecting public confidence in the political process requires adequate enforcement of the 
provisions of this article.
2.80.020 Deﬁnitions.
As used in this chapter, the words and phrases shall be defined in the same manner as they are 
defined in the Political Reform Act of 1974 (including any amendments thereto) as found in 
(Ord. No. 2005-1 § 1.)
408 of 460

--- page 409 ---
California Government Code Section 81000 et seq., unless defined otherwise in this section. For 
the purposes of this chapter, the terms below are defined as follows:
(a) "Candidate" means any individual listed on the ballot for election to any City office, or who 
otherwise has taken affirmative action to seek election to City office, or who receives a contribution 
or makes an expenditure, or who gives his or her consent for any other person to receive a 
contribution or make an expenditure with the purpose of bringing about his or her election to any 
City office. "Candidate" also means an officeholder in connection with a recall election relating to 
such officeholder.
(b) "Candidate committee" means a committee that is controlled directly or indirectly by a 
candidate or that acts jointly with a candidate in connection with the making of expenditures.
(c) "Contribution" means a payment, a forgiveness of a loan, a payment of a loan by a third 
party, or an enforceable promise to make a payment except to the extent full and adequate 
consideration is received unless it is clear from the surrounding circumstances that it is not made 
for political purposes. Except as provided herein, "contribution" includes (1) an expenditure made 
at the behest of a candidate or candidate committee unless full and adequate consideration is 
received for making the expenditure, and (2) any goods or services received by or behested by a 
candidate or candidate committee at no charge or at a discount from the fair market value, unless 
the discount is given in the regular course of business to members of the public.
The term "contribution" does not include a payment made by the occupant of a home or business 
for costs related to any meeting or fund raising event held in the occupant's home or business; or 
volunteer personal or professional services if the services are donated without any understanding 
or agreement that they shall be directly or indirectly repaid to him or her.
(d) "Individual" means a natural person and shall not include a partnership, corporation, 
association, firm, business entity, committee, club, or other organization.
(e) "Organization" means a partnership, corporation, association, firm, business entity, 
committee, club, union, or company.
(f) [OPTIONAL] “Measure” means any City Charter amendment, ordinance or other 
proposition submitted to a popular vote at an election, whether by initiative, referendum 
or otherwise, or circulated for the purposes of submission to a popular vote at any 
election, whether or not the proposition qualifies for the ballot.
409 of 460

--- page 410 ---
2.80.030 LIMITATIONS ON CONTRIBUTIONS.
(a) For any particular election, including a recall election, no individual shall make, and no 
candidate, candidate committee treasurer or other person acting on behalf of a candidate 
committee shall solicit or accept from any individual any contribution which will cause the total 
amount contributed by such individual to exceed $500.00.
(b) For any particular election, including a recall election, no organization shall make, and no 
candidate, candidate committee treasurer or other person acting on behalf of a candidate 
committee shall solicit or accept from any organization any contribution which will cause the total 
amount contributed by such organization to exceed $1,000.00.
(c) Any contribution or portion thereof that exceeds the limits in this section shall be returned to 
the contributor within 72 hours of receipt.
(d) The limitations imposed by this section shall not apply to contribution of a candidate's 
personal funds to the candidate's own campaign, or to any loan which is personally guaranteed by 
the candidate or is secured by property owned by the candidate.
(Ord. No. 2021-23 § 1; Ord. No. 2005-1 § 1.)
(Ord. No. 2017-2 § 1; Ord. No. 2005-1 § 1.)
Cross References
Section 2.80.080(a)
410 of 460

--- page 411 ---
2.80.040 CANDIDATE LOANS.
No candidate shall personally loan their campaign an amount the outstanding balance of which 
exceeds $15,000.00 at any given point in time.
2.80.045 Aggregation of Contributions.
(a) To determine when contributions are aggregated under this chapter, "majority owned" means 
ownership of more than 50 percent.
(b) If an individual directs or controls an organization's contributions, the organization's 
contributions shall be aggregated with contributions made by both of the following:
(1) That individual.
(2) Any other organization whose contributions that individual directs or controls.
(c) If two or more organizations make contributions that are directed or controlled by a majority 
of the same persons, the contributions of those entities shall be aggregated.
(d) Contributions made by organizations that are majority owned by a person shall be 
aggregated with the contributions of the majority owner and all other organizations majority owned 
by that person, unless those organizations act independently in their contribution-making 
decisions.
(e) Aggregated contributions under this section shall be subject to the $1000 contribution limit.
(Ord. No. 2005-1 § 1.)
Cross References
Section 2.80.080(a)
(Ord. No. 2021-23 § 2.)
411 of 460

--- page 412 ---
2.80.050 Candidate Campaigns Only.
The provisions of this chapter apply to election campaigns for candidates only. The provisions of 
this chapter do not apply to any recall, ballot measure, referendum or initiative election 
[OPTIONAL: except as provided in Section 2.08.057].
2.80.055 VOLUNTARY EXPENDITURE LIMIT.
(a) Each candidate for election to the City Council in November 2024, and for each City Council 
election thereafter, shall, prior to the time they file their nomination papers with the city clerk, advise 
the city clerk in writing on a form provided by the City whether or not the candidate will opt to 
voluntarily limit their campaign expenditures in accordance with the voluntary campaign expenditure 
limits set forth in this section and by resolution.  The agreement to voluntarily limit campaign 
expenditures shall pertain to all expenditures incurred by the candidate or the candidate’s 
committee in support of their candidacy and shall include all such expenditures that a candidate or 
candidate’s committee is required to report pursuant to the California Political Reform Act of 1974, 
as amended, whether those expenditures are made before or after the filing of nomination papers.
(b) Withdrawal Period: within three (3) business days after the deadline to file nomination papers 
with the city clerk, a candidate that previously accepted the voluntary campaign expenditure limit 
will have one (1) opportunity to notify the city clerk that they have decided not to accept the 
voluntary campaign expenditure limit.  The candidate shall thereafter be relieved of abiding by the 
expenditure limit.
(c) Candidates who agree to abide by the voluntary campaign expenditure limit shall receive the 
following benefits and incentives at no cost to themselves:
(1) The City’s website will clearly identify which candidates have agreed to the voluntary 
expenditure limit.
(2) The City will publish in its regular digital newsletter which candidates have agreed to the 
voluntary expenditure limit.  This will be published twice (once at the next publishing of said 
newsletter after the withdrawal period and once when the ballots are mailed to residents.)
(3) The City will publish notices in a newspaper of general circulation the candidates who 
agreed to the voluntary expenditure limit.
(Ord. No. 2021-23 § 3; Ord. No. 2005-1 § 1.)
412 of 460

--- page 413 ---
(d) Calculation of Voluntary Campaign Expenditure Limit.
(1) A candidate for district City Councilmember who voluntarily agrees to expenditure ceilings 
shall not make qualified expenditures exceeding two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) per 
resident in the electoral district for each election in which the candidate is seeking elective 
office.  Residency of each electoral district shall be determined by the latest decennial 
census population figures available for that district.  The City Clerk shall publish on its 
website and in a newspaper of general circulation the expenditure ceiling amount for each 
district, rounded to the nearest hundred dollars ($100), no later than sixty (60) business 
days following adoption of the ordinance from which this Section is derived.
(2) Beginning on January 1, 2026, the City Clerk shall in even-numbered years increase the 
expenditure ceiling amounts based upon a finding that the cost of living in the immediate 
San Francisco Bay Area, as shown on the CPI for all items in the San Francisco Bay Area 
as published by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Statistics, has increased. This 
increase shall be the cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) computed by reference to the CPI as 
indexed from a base year that commences in November 2023 (by way of example, on 
January 1, 2026, the City Clerk will adjust the voluntary expenditure ceiling amounts by 
determining the increase in CPI from November 2023— November 2025). The increase 
shall be rounded to the nearest hundred dollars ($100) . The City Clerk shall publish the 
adjusted expenditure ceiling amounts no later than February 1st of each even-numbered 
year.
         
(3) The voluntary campaign expenditure limit called for by this section shall include any 
expenditures made by the candidate or by the candidate’s campaign committee in 
connection with the preparation and publication of the candidate’s statement of 
qualifications in the sample ballot pamphlet published in accordance with California 
Elections Code Section 13307.
(4) The following shall not count toward the voluntary campaign expenditure limit: 
(A)Filing fees related to the candidacy, including the candidate statement filing fee, fees 
paid to the Secretary of State to open or maintain a committee, and fees to translate 
the candidate statement.
(B)Contributions returned by the candidate within thirty (30) days of receipt.
(C)Legal fees and costs incurred in connection with litigation arising out of a campaign for 
City office.
(D)Non-monetary contributions as defined by the Fair Political Practices Commission. 
(E) Post-election party expenses.
413 of 460

--- page 414 ---
(F) Post office box expenses.  
(e) Penalties: Any violation of this section, including the filing of false reports that entitle the 
candidate to the benefits conferred by this section, shall within seventy-two (72) hours of the City’s 
knowledge of the violation:
(1) Be posted on the City's website, and 
(2) Be posted in the City’s regular digital newsletter; and 
(3) Be forwarded to newspapers of general circulation for publication.
[OPTIONAL SECTION – MASS MAILINGS]
2.08.057 MASS MAILINGS – COPY TO CITY
A copy of every mass mailing in support of or in opposition to a candidate or measure shall be sent 
to the city clerk within one day of being mailed.
2.80.060 INJUNCTION, OTHER COURT ACTION.
In addition to all other remedies and penalties provided for violation of this chapter, the City 
Attorney may bring suit in a court of competent jurisdiction to seek an injunction or other 
appropriate relief, to halt any violation of this chapter. Such action may include seeking a 
temporary restraining order or temporary injunction and other appropriate temporary relief. Nothing 
in this chapter shall be deemed to restrict a suit for damages on behalf of the City or on behalf of 
any other person or entity.
2.80.070 PENALTIES.
Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a public offense.
(Ord. No. 2005-1 § 1.)
(Ord. No. 2012-2 § 5; Ord. No. 2005-1 § 1.)
414 of 460

--- page 415 ---
2.80.080 Post Election Review.
(a) No later than three (3) months after the certification of the results of a City election at which a 
City Council member is elected, the City Clerk shall calendar for City Council consideration a 
review of the provisions of this chapter. The purpose of such review is to allow the City Council to 
consider the ongoing appropriateness of the provisions of this chapter, including, but not limited to, 
the amount of the contribution and loan limits established in Sections 2.80.030 and 2.80.040.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, the City Clerk's failure to calendar this 
review within the time period specified shall not subject the City Clerk to any criminal or civil 
penalty.
2.80.090 SEVERABILITY.
Each section and provision of this chapter shall be considered severable and the invalidity of any 
section or provision of this chapter shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other section 
or provision.
(Ord. No. 2021-23 § 4; Ord. No. 2005-1 § 1.)
(Ord. No. 2005-1 § 1.)
415 of 460

--- page 416 ---
City of San Mateo Law Library / City of San Mateo Municipal Code. / Title 2 ADMINISTRATION
AND PERSONNEL / Chapter 2.80 CONTRIBUTIONS AND LOANS TO CITY CANDIDATE
CAMPAIGNS
Chapter 2.80 CONTRIBUTIONS AND LOANS TO
CITY CANDIDATE CAMPAIGNS
2.80.010 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
(a) The City Council hereby finds that preserving integrity and openness in the political process
is a matter of the highest public interest; that the people of the City of San Mateo can be better
served through a more informed electorate; that the trust of the people is essential to
representative government; and that regulation of certain campaign contributions and loans is
necessary to promote public confidence in government and to protect the integrity of the electoral
process.
(b) The City Council further finds that regulation of campaign contributions is required because
the costs of running political campaigns have reached levels that lead to a public perception that
special interests and wealthy individuals may have undue influence on or access to elected
officials.
(c) It is the policy of the City to promote and encourage broad-based citizen involvement in the
financing of election campaigns.
(d) The City Council further finds that allowing candidates to lend unlimited amounts of their
personal funds to their campaigns tends to undermine public confidence in the election process,
because the public may perceive that candidates with large outstanding loans will seek
contributors to repay their loan after the election, and may be predisposed to favor their post-
election contributors.
416 of 460

--- page 417 ---
(e) Protecting public confidence in the political process requires adequate enforcement of the
provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 2005-1 § 1.)
2.80.020 Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the words and phrases shall be defined in the same manner as they are
defined in the Political Reform Act of 1974 (including any amendments thereto) as found in
California Government Code Section 81000 et seq., unless defined otherwise in this section. For
the purposes of this chapter, the terms below are defined as follows:
(a) "Candidate" means any individual listed on the ballot for election to any City office, or who
otherwise has taken affirmative action to seek election to City office, or who receives a contribution
or makes an expenditure, or who gives his or her consent for any other person to receive a
contribution or make an expenditure with the purpose of bringing about his or her election to any
City office. "Candidate" also means an officeholder in connection with a recall election relating to
such officeholder.
(b) "Candidate committee" means a committee that is controlled directly or indirectly by a
candidate or that acts jointly with a candidate in connection with the making of expenditures.
(c) "Contribution" means a payment, a forgiveness of a loan, a payment of a loan by a third
party, or an enforceable promise to make a payment except to the extent full and adequate
consideration is received unless it is clear from the surrounding circumstances that it is not made
for political purposes. Except as provided herein, "contribution" includes (1) an expenditure made
at the behest of a candidate or candidate committee unless full and adequate consideration is
received for making the expenditure, and (2) any goods or services received by or behested by a
candidate or candidate committee at no charge or at a discount from the fair market value, unless
the discount is given in the regular course of business to members of the public.
The term "contribution" does not include a payment made by the occupant of a home or business
for costs related to any meeting or fund raising event held in the occupant's home or business; or
volunteer personal or professional services if the services are donated without any understanding
or agreement that they shall be directly or indirectly repaid to him or her.
417 of 460

--- page 418 ---
(d) "Individual" means a natural person and shall not include a partnership, corporation,
association, firm, business entity, committee, club, or other organization.
(e) "Organization" means a partnership, corporation, association, firm, business entity,
committee, club, union, or company.
(Ord. No. 2021-23 § 1; Ord. No. 2005-1 § 1.)
2.80.030 LIMITATIONS ON CONTRIBUTIONS.
(a) For any particular election, including a recall election, no individual shall make, and no
candidate, candidate committee treasurer or other person acting on behalf of a candidate
committee shall solicit or accept from any individual any contribution which will cause the total
amount contributed by such individual to exceed $500.00.
(b) For any particular election, including a recall election, no organization shall make, and no
candidate, candidate committee treasurer or other person acting on behalf of a candidate
committee shall solicit or accept from any organization any contribution which will cause the total
amount contributed by such organization to exceed $1,000.00.
(c) Any contribution or portion thereof that exceeds the limits in this section shall be returned to
the contributor within 72 hours of receipt.
(d) The limitations imposed by this section shall not apply to contribution of a candidate's
personal funds to the candidate's own campaign, or to any loan which is personally guaranteed by
the candidate or is secured by property owned by the candidate.
(Ord. No. 2017-2 § 1; Ord. No. 2005-1 § 1.)
Cross References
Section 2.80.080(a)
418 of 460

--- page 419 ---
2.80.040 CANDIDATE LOANS.
No candidate shall personally loan their campaign an amount the outstanding balance of which
exceeds $15,000.00 at any given point in time.
(Ord. No. 2005-1 § 1.)
Cross References
Section 2.80.080(a)
2.80.045 Aggregation of Contributions.
(a) To determine when contributions are aggregated under this chapter, "majority owned" means
ownership of more than 50 percent.
(b) If an individual directs or controls an organization's contributions, the organization's
contributions shall be aggregated with contributions made by both of the following:
(1) That individual.
(2) Any other organization whose contributions that individual directs or controls.
(c) If two or more organizations make contributions that are directed or controlled by a majority
of the same persons, the contributions of those entities shall be aggregated.
(d) Contributions made by organizations that are majority owned by a person shall be
aggregated with the contributions of the majority owner and all other organizations majority owned
by that person, unless those organizations act independently in their contribution-making
decisions.
(Ord. No. 2021-23 § 2.)
419 of 460

--- page 420 ---
2.80.050 Candidate Campaigns Only.
The provisions of this chapter apply to election campaigns for candidates only. The provisions of
this chapter do not apply to any ballot measure, referendum or initiative election.
(Ord. No. 2021-23 § 3; Ord. No. 2005-1 § 1.)
2.80.060 INJUNCTION, OTHER COURT ACTION.
In addition to all other remedies and penalties provided for violation of this chapter, the City
Attorney may bring suit in a court of competent jurisdiction to seek an injunction or other
appropriate relief, to halt any violation of this chapter. Such action may include seeking a
temporary restraining order or temporary injunction and other appropriate temporary relief. Nothing
in this chapter shall be deemed to restrict a suit for damages on behalf of the City or on behalf of
any other person or entity.
(Ord. No. 2005-1 § 1.)
2.80.070 PENALTIES.
Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a public offense.
(Ord. No. 2012-2 § 5; Ord. No. 2005-1 § 1.)
2.80.080 Post Election Review.
(a) No later than three (3) months after the certification of the results of a City election at which a
City Council member is elected, the City Clerk shall calendar for City Council consideration a
review of the provisions of this chapter. The purpose of such review is to allow the City Council to
consider the ongoing appropriateness of the provisions of this chapter, including, but not limited to,
the amount of the contribution and loan limits established in Sections 2.80.030 and 2.80.040.
420 of 460

--- page 421 ---
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, the City Clerk's failure to calendar this
review within the time period specified shall not subject the City Clerk to any criminal or civil
penalty.
(Ord. No. 2021-23 § 4; Ord. No. 2005-1 § 1.)
2.80.090 SEVERABILITY.
Each section and provision of this chapter shall be considered severable and the invalidity of any
section or provision of this chapter shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other section
or provision.
(Ord. No. 2005-1 § 1.)
421 of 460

--- page 422 ---
Campaign Ordinance 
Amendments
November 6, 2023
Prasanna W. Rasiah
City Attorney
422 of 460

--- page 423 ---
Questions for Council
1. Does the Council agree with the proposed municipal code 
changes as shown in the draft ordinance?
2. Does the Council wish to include the optional provision 
requiring campaign mailers to be filed with the City?
3. Should the City no longer charge candidates for the cost of 
candidate statements? 
2 of 7
423 of 460

--- page 424 ---
Voluntary Expenditure Limit
• Candidates indicate intention to abide by VEL 
• One opportunity to decline after close of nominations
• Based on $2.50/resident in each district
• Adjusted by CPI every two years
• Exceptions:  filing fees, returned contributions, legal expenses, 
etc.
• Benefits:  public identification on City website, newsletter, 
and newspaper
• Penalty for violation:  publicizing by same methods 
3 of 7
424 of 460

--- page 425 ---
Recalls and Contribution Aggregation
• Amendments clarify that contribution limits do not apply to 
recall elections
• Ballot question:  whether to recall an elected official, not who 
should replace them
• Vacancies filled by appointment, not an election 
• Aggregated contributions subject to $1,000 limit 
4 of 7
425 of 460

--- page 426 ---
Campaign Mailers (Mass Mailings)
• Optional language – Council direction needed
• Draft provision would require campaign mailers to be filed 
with the City
• Exception for member communications under state law
• Does not include online communications
• Complaint driven enforcement
 
5 of 7
426 of 460

--- page 427 ---
Candidate Statement Filing Costs
• Should the City absorb costs for candidates to publish a 
candidate statement in County sample ballot and voter 
information guide.
• Cost would be approximately $3,500 per election cycle.
6 of 7
427 of 460

--- page 428 ---
Questions for Council
1. Does the Council agree with the proposed municipal code 
changes as shown in the draft ordinance?
2. Does the Council wish to include the optional provision 
requiring campaign mailers to be filed with the City?
3. Should the City no longer charge candidates for the cost of 
candidate statements? 
7 of 7
428 of 460

--- page 429 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  22
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-5112
File ID: 23-8086
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
November 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Building Security Code – Ordinance Introduction
RECOMMENDATION:
Introduce an Ordinance adding Section 23.54.025 “Secured Building Access for Emergency Personnel” and Section 
23.54.035 “Video Surveillance Systems” to Chapter 23.54 “Building Security Code.”
BACKGROUND:
Ordinance amendments are occasionally needed to improve the San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC or Municipal Code) so 
that they accurately reflect long-standing safety practices and requirements in the design review process that ensure 
optimal public safety for the community. Changes to the Municipal Code require approval by the City Council.
Chapter 23 Background
The purpose of SMMC Chapter 23, “Building Security Code,” is to safeguard property and to promote public welfare and 
safety by providing security standards to be used in the design, construction, and maintenance of buildings and vehicles 
and the quality of materials used therein.
Long-standing practice in the design review process has been to require that new commercial and multi-tenant 
developments install and maintain a system to allow for access to the structure/building in the cases of emergency and 
life-saving response. For years, staff has required such systems through the Conditions of Approval (COA) process, when 
working with the building development and construction team, since the Municipal Code does not have this requirement 
codified. Having such access is essential to allow first responders the ability to access communal areas in buildings to 
contact and aid community members in need. Without these systems, first responders are faced with deciding whether to 
damage property to gain access or to delay their response – neither of which is a desirable or preferred outcome.
Similar to access to structures, long-standing practice has been to require the installation and maintenance of video 
surveillance systems for commercial and multi-tenant buildings. These video surveillance systems are specifically required 
in publicly accessible exterior grounds contiguous to the property, where there is no reasonable expectation of privacy. 
Staff have consistently required such systems through the COA process, and the systems reflect best practice in crime 
prevention through environmental design in serving as a deterrent mechanism as well as offering the potential of 
investigative leads after crimes have occurred. For such leads, PD staff are required to request access to video through 
building ownership/management, and abide by all legal requirements including those related to constitutional mandates.
Proposed Section 23.54.025 – “Secured Building Access for Emergency Personnel”
This section would require the installation and maintenance of an access system for use by police officers when 
429 of 460

--- page 430 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
responding to an emergency and/or life-threatening need. The requirement would be applied to future commercial or 
multi-tenant development, and it would not be applied retroactively to existing buildings. The proposed code language for 
this Section is provided in the table below, with the Proposed Ordinance as Attachment 1.
Proposed New Section – 23.54.025
Where access to commercial or multi-tenant buildings is restricted because of secured entry points, the Police Chief or 
their designee is authorized to specify and require the installation and maintenance of an emergency access system, for 
when immediate police access is necessary for life-saving or emergency purposes.  A police emergency access system 
installed and maintained under this section is in addition to the requirements of other adopted codes, including the 
California Fire Code.
Proposed Section 23.54.035 – “Video Surveillance Systems”
This section would require the installation and maintenance of a video surveillance system to focus on publicly accessible 
exterior areas that are contiguous to the property for commercial and multi-tenant buildings. Additional cameras and/or 
systems may be required through the individual review process, and the owner is not prohibited from taking the initiative 
to install additional systems. The requirement would be applied to future development, and it would not be applied 
retroactively to existing buildings. The proposed code language for this Section is provided in the table below, with the 
Proposed Ordinance as Attachment 1.
Proposed New Section – 23.54.035
Commercial and multi-tenant buildings shall have installed and maintain a recording video surveillance system with 
cameras placed to view publicly accessible exterior grounds contiguous to that property.  Additional cameras and 
camera technologies may be installed by a property owner, and additional cameras and camera technologies may be 
required based on project-specific conditions including, but not limited to, project size, and location as determined by 
the Chief of Police or their designee.  A video surveillance system installed under this section shall be approved by the 
Chief of Police or their designee. 
NEXT STEP:
An ordinance for second reading will be brought to the City Council for adoption at a subsequent meeting should the City 
Council approve the introduction of the proposed ordinance. If the second reading of the ordinance is approved, the 
ordinance would become effective 30 days after adoption.
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT AND COMMENTS:
An online community workshop focused on these amendments as well as other amendments being considered by the 
Police Department to the City’s Building Security Code was held on May 25, 2023. Notice of this community workshop was 
provided a minimum of ten (10) days prior to the workshop through the San Mateo Daily Journal, posting at various public 
facilities, the City’s website, and the Citywide eNewsletter. Four community members attended the workshop. Comments 
and questions raised during the workshop addressed general security design methods but not specifically on the subject 
amendment. Public comments received after the publication of this report will be forwarded to the City Council for 
consideration at the public hearing and will be posted to this item online as “Post Packet Public Comments.”
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no projected fiscal impact resulting from these amendments if adopted and would be absorbed by already funded 
staff time.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, section 15061(b)(3), adoption of this ordinance 
amendment is covered by the "common sense exemption" in that CEQA applies only to projects which have the potential 
to cause a significant effect on the environment. Here, it can be seen with certainty that the ordinance amendment will 
not have a significant effect on the environment per Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).
430 of 460

--- page 431 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
Matt Lethin, Captain
mlethin@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7663
Brendan Bartholomew, Sergeant
bbartholomew@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7743
431 of 460

--- page 432 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Amending Chapter 23.54 “Building Security Code” to Add Section 23.54.025 “Secured Building Access for 
Emergency Personnel,” and Section 23.54.035 “Video Surveillance Systems”
WHEREAS, the San Mateo Police Department, as an active member of the City of San Mateo’s Design 
Review Board, has identified important additions to San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Chapter 23.54, which 
sets forth Building Security Code requirements; and
WHEREAS, the adoption of SMMC Section 23.54.025 “Secured Building Access for Emergency 
Personnel,” will require all new commercial and multi-tenant buildings to install and maintain an access system 
for use by public safety personnel when responding to emergencies to ensure essential, life-saving responses 
can reach those in need; and
WHEREAS, the adoption of SMMC Section 23.54.035 “Video Surveillance Systems” will require all new 
commercial and multi-tenant buildings to install and maintain a video surveillance system in publicly accessible 
exterior areas contiguous to the property to ensure optimal public safety through safety technologies.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 23.54.025 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to read as follows:
23.54.025 Secured Building Access for Emergency Personnel
Where access to commercial or multi-tenant buildings is restricted because of secured entry points, the 
Police Chief or their designee is authorized to specify and require the installation and maintenance of an 
emergency access system, for when immediate police access is necessary for life-saving or emergency purposes.  
A police emergency access system installed and maintained under this section is in addition to the requirements 
of other adopted codes, including the California Fire Code.
Section 2. Section 23.54.035 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to read as follows:
23.54.035 Video Surveillance Systems
Commercial and multi-tenant buildings shall have installed and maintain a recording video surveillance 
system with cameras placed to view publicly accessible exterior grounds contiguous to that property. Additional 
cameras and camera technologies may be installed by a property owner, and additional cameras and camera 
technologies may be required based on project-specific conditions including, but not limited to, project size, and 
location as determined by the Chief of Police or their designee. A video surveillance system installed under this 
section shall be approved by the Chief of Police or their designee.
Section 3. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3), this action is covered by the "common sense exemption" in that CEQA applies 
only to projects which have the potential to cause a significant effect on the environment. Here, it can be seen 
432 of 460

--- page 433 ---
with certainty that the ordinance adoption, will not have a significant effect on the environment per Guidelines 
Section 15061(b)(3).
Section 4.  Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 5. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 6. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
433 of 460

--- page 434 ---
Municipal Code Amendments - Additions to 
Building Security Code Requirements
Ordinance Introduction
November 6, 2023
Brendan Bartholomew, Sergeant
Matt Lethin, Captain
Police Department
434 of 460

--- page 435 ---
Background
Purpose
Code Language 
Public Outreach
Recommendation
2
435 of 460

--- page 436 ---
3
Building Security Code, applicable to new 
developments and alterations.
Add new requirements for Emergency Access and 
Security Cameras to Municipal Code 23.54.
Codifies existing practice, and increases 
transparency and equity of security requirements.
To facilitate rapid responses to emergency calls, 
increase security and investigative tools.
Background
Purpose
Code Language 
Public Outreach
Recommendation
436 of 460

--- page 437 ---
4
Proposed Code Language
Where access to an area or enclosed 
structure is restricted because of secured 
openings, the Police Chief or their designee 
is authorized to specify and require the 
installation and maintenance of an 
emergency access system, for when 
immediate police access is necessary for 
life-saving or emergency purposes.  A police 
emergency access system installed and 
maintained under this section is in addition 
to the requirements of other adopted 
codes, including the California Fire Code.
Secure Building 
Access
Requires 
installation of a 
system
Provides access 
to respond to 
emergencies
Equity, 
transparency, 
flexibility
Background
Purpose
Code Language 
Public Outreach
Recommendation
SMMC Section 23.54.025
“Secured Building Access for 
Emergency Personnel”
437 of 460

--- page 438 ---
5
Proposed Code Language 
Commercial and multi-tenant buildings 
shall have installed and maintain a 
recording video surveillance system with 
cameras placed to view publicly accessible 
exterior grounds contiguous to that 
property.    Additional cameras and camera 
technologies may be installed by a 
property owner, and additional cameras 
and camera technologies may be required 
based on project-specific conditions 
including, but not limited to, project size, 
and location as determined by the Chief of 
Police or their designee.  A video 
surveillance system installed under this 
section shall be approved by the Chief of 
Police or their designee.
Video Surveillance 
System
Requires 
installation of 
security cameras
Viewing areas 
where the public 
can access
Equity, 
transparency, 
flexibility
Background
Purpose
Code Language 
Public Outreach
Recommendation
SMMC Section 23.54.035
“Video Surveillance System”
438 of 460

--- page 439 ---
6
Access 
System
Requires 
installation of a 
system
Provides access 
to respond to 
emergencies
Equity, 
transparency, 
flexibility
Security 
Cameras
Requires 
installation of 
security cameras
Viewing areas 
where the public 
can access
Background
Purpose
Code Language 
Public Outreach
Recommendation
439 of 460

--- page 440 ---
7
Community Meeting: May 25, 2023
• Provided overview of code amendment
• Discussed general security design requirements
• One concern about cost of installing security cameras 
and their effectiveness in preventing crime
• One comment supporting increased transparency
Public Comments
• No comments received after agenda announced
Background
Purpose
Code Language 
Public Outreach
Recommendation
440 of 460

--- page 441 ---
RECOMMENDATION
Introduce an Ordinance to add two new sections to Municipal Code Chapter 23.54, 
“Building Security Code,” to outline requirements under 23.54.025 for “Secured 
Building Access for Emergency Personnel” and 23.54.035 for “Video Surveillance 
Systems.”
441 of 460

--- page 442 ---
Thank You
Brendan Bartholomew, Sergeant
Matt Lethin, Captain
Police Department
442 of 460

--- page 443 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  23
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 23-8102
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
November 6, 2023 
SUBJECT:
City Council Priority List – Progress Report
RECOMMENDATION:
Review the progress report status updates of the City Council Priority List for fiscal year 2023-24. 
BACKGROUND:
The City Council goal-setting process includes a three-step deliberation process resulting in the adoption of a City Council 
Priority List, which includes staff’s proposed work plan for each initiative for the upcoming fiscal year. The first step of the 
process was the City Council Blue Sky Workshop, held on February 11, 2023. At this workshop, the City Council reviewed 
the adopted fiscal year 2022-23 priorities, removed completed and operationalized items, and proposed new priorities to 
add to the list for the fiscal year 2023-24. At the March 20th meeting, City Council reviewed the draft Priority List to ensure 
accuracy. City Council formally adopted the fiscal year 2023-24 City Council Priority List at the April 17th meeting.
Staff is providing a progress report, which was formally called a mid-cycle review, of the City Council Priority List from fiscal 
year 2023-24 and will present the updates to City Council. This report provides a high-level summary of each priority and is 
included in the attached spreadsheet labeled 2023-2024 Priority List Updates. Fiscal Year 2023-2024 started on July 1, 
2023, and ends on June 30, 2024, and this report focuses on the progress made from July 1 through October 30, 2023.
Staff has made progress on each of the priorities or at the very least, has identified next steps on how to proceed. 
Staff recommends City Council review the priorities and the respective updates. Staff will be available to answer any 
questions.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this agenda item. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This progress report review is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).) 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - 2023-2024 Priority List Updates
443 of 460

--- page 444 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Denise Garcia, Management Analyst II
dgarcia@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7277
444 of 460

--- page 445 ---
Fiscal Year 2023-24 City Council Priorities
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Status Update as of October 30, 2023
1
City Attorney's Office and 
City Clerk's Office 
Study campaign finance reform policies, including 
voluntary expenditure limit, disclosure requirement for 
independent expenditures, and improving access for 
voter education initiatives
Presented to Council on 9/5/23 in study session. Ordinance introduction scheduled for November 6, 
2023.
2
City Clerk
Explore increasing representation of youth and seniors on 
City Boards and Commissions
After completing a recruitment, 11 candidates were interviewed on October 18, 2023., appointment is 
scheduled on November 6, 2023. Completed B&C demography study to inform future work; researching 
youth participation on other boards and commissions. 
3
City Manager's Office
Establish policies to decarbonize existing buildings and 
infrastructure and eliminate methane gas use by 2030
In May 2023, Rincon Consultants began development of the "Sustainable Buildings Strategy." In 
September 2023, Rincon completed the building inventory and market segmentation analysis and results 
were presented to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission. A project update to City Council is 
tentatively scheduled for a January Study Session. Outreach is ongoing.
4
City Manager's Office
Integrate master plans to increase efficiency and 
community impact
Staff from the various department are concurrently working to consolidate and synthesize the master 
plans to achieve this goal. This is an ongoing effort that will take multiple years to complete. 
5
Public Works
Design and implement capital improvements for 
permanent street closure
B Street Pedestrian Mall Improvements Project - Design is underway and the project is anticipated to be 
put out to bid by November 30 and in construction Spring/Summer 2024. 
6
Community Development 
and City Manager's Office Create a racial equity community art project
Final design was approved by CAC in September and Artist is working on the art installation throughout 
the month of October. Mural completion and unveiling is scheduled for October 28th. 
7
Community Development
Analyze density minimums for mixed-use projects and 
update the Density Bonus and Community Benefits 
policies
A consultant, EPS, was retained in August and background work and data collection for the initiative 
began in September. 
8
Finance
Initiate a Community Budget Process for anticipated 
revenue from Measure CC
Currently the City hasn't received any Measure CC revenues. Staff will continue to monitor the Measure 
CC revenue collection.
9
Public Works
Remove North Shoreview from FEMA Flood Assessment
FEMA issued an AD (Additional Data) Letter on September 12, 2023 for clarification. New deadline 
revised to December 11, 2023 and staff is currently working on updated submission to comply to FEMA’s 
request.  
Items to be Completed within the Fiscal Year
1
445 of 460

--- page 446 ---
Fiscal Year 2023-24 City Council Priorities
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Status Update as of October 30, 2023
10
City Manager's Office and 
Community Development 
Implement the Climate Action Plan and work to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions
PlaceWorks conducted a technical update to the Climate Action Plan to align with the General Plan. 
Adoption of the CAP Technical Update is tentatively scheduled for early 2024 in conjunction with the 
General Plan.
11
City Manager's Office
Consider the adoption of wage theft protections
Staff will bring forward best practices from other jurisdictions during a study session in the near future.
12
City Manager's Office
Explore the establishment of Property-Based 
Improvement Districts
Staff will schedule a study session for City Council to evaluate how Property-Based Improvement Districts 
are formed.
13
City Manager's Office
Explore the implementation of a Customer Response 
Management or 311 system
Staff is going to first evaluate what current systems are in place, what types of integration are possible, 
and has begun initial research on 311 service providers. Will require significant staff resources and 
internal process evaluation, which is expected to take time.
14
City Manager's Office and 
City Attorney's Office
Adopt a Retail Cannabis Ordinance
Staff presented policy and permit options for consideration to City Council on October 2nd. City Council 
deferred this item to year 2025.
15
City Manager's Office and 
City Attorney's Office
Review and update the City Charter related to district 
elections, mayoral rotation, and filling Council vacancies
Presentation to Council at October 16, 2023 study session.  Future study session scheduled for January 2, 
2024.
16
City Manager's Office and 
Public Works
Enhance city-wide disaster response and emergency 
preparedness
Staff is working with the Office of Emergency Services (under San Mateo Consolidated Fire) to develop a 
near-term Wet Weather Emergency Action Plan (EAP), as well as a longer-term new Citywide EAP.  
Items to be Completed within 2 to 5 Years
2
446 of 460

--- page 447 ---
Fiscal Year 2023-24 City Council Priorities
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Status Update as of October 30, 2023
17
Community Development Update the General Plan
General Plan Update work is ongoing and remains on schedule for completion in early 2024. The Draft 
General Plan was published in July and extensive community outreach and engagement campaign were 
initiated. Outreach continued, the Draft EIR was published, and a General Plan Subcommittee meeting 
was held in August. In September the City hosted five town hall meetings, various other outreach 
activities and held 2 public meetings before the Planning Commission. 
18
Community Development Implement Housing Element Policies
Based on Council direction, the Housing Element was updated and posted for public review in July and 
submitted to HCD in August. Code amendments to update the planning application extension process and 
clarify safety requirements for projects with housing were adopted in August and went into effect in 
September.   
19
Library and Public Works
Address structural issues at the Marina Library 
Architect and civil engineers completed onsite visits and will soon complete assessment report with 
recommendation for design of foundation improvements. Next PW will consult with library staff 
regarding interior library space scope. Construction start moved to fall 2024.
20
Public Works
Reconstruct all failed streets in San Mateo by 2026
Phase 4's construction is ongoing – completed concrete and streetlight work. Grind/pave road 
reconstruction is underway.  City will receive 65% PS&E by beginning of November for phase 5.
21
Public Works
Replace all remaining high voltage circuits to improve 
safety and reliability of the street light system
Phase 2's project closed out.  All paperwork and payments for PG&E agreements are complete for phase 
3. Phase 4 - 65% PS&E is on-going, but not critical path due to delays to PG&E agreements. PG&E did not 
start work on our service locations during Q1. 
22
Public Works
Fund and deliver the Clean Water Program
Collection system capacity improvements, annual sewer investigations, and upgrades are in progress and 
continue. Construction of the WWTP Upgrade & Expansion, Immediate Action, and Annual Major 
Components projects are in progress and will continue. 
3
447 of 460

--- page 448 ---
Fiscal Year 2023-24 City Council Priorities
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Status Update as of October 30, 2023
23
Library
Implement Library Space Master Plan
Current master plan (MP) from 2017 remains relevant. The last item completed from the MP was a 
renovation of the children's library at the main library. Renovating the business area, jobseekers 
assistance area, or biotech area represent possible smaller projects that could be addressed individually 
at a relatively smaller cost.
24
Parks & Recreation
Implement the Central Park Master Plan
In process of finalizing construction documents for the playground. A number of bidders have been 
prequalified for the construction of the playground in preparation of seeking pricing. The Fallen Heroes 
Memorial which will be built adjacent to the playground has identified a fabricator and purchase 
agreements are being prepared so that the inauguration of the Memorial can take place in late Spring 
2024.
25
Public Works
Expedite efforts to improve the stormwater collection, 
drainage, and storage system, including dredging the 
Marina lagoon
On October 16, City Council held a public meeting at which time a majority of property owners did not 
protest the proposed fee. Council authorized moving into the ballot phase.
26
Public Works
Meet the 100% trash reduction mandate
RFP was released and proposals received. Proposal review and consultant selection for design are 
underway.
27
Public Works
Implement a Green Fleet by 2030
Kick off meeting with Peninsula Clean Energy to help facilitate the process in reviewing all city facilities to 
select the best for EV chargers for city vehicles. Identifying fleet vehicle assets at each location to 
eventually be converted to EV.   
28
Public Works
Expedite efforts to produce potable water from the Clean 
Water Program
Project in preliminary engineering design and environmental review phase. 
29
Public Works
Minimize impacts to residents from train horn noise at 
City at-grade crossings
For the 4th and 5th Ave Railroad Crossings Projects, construction is ongoing. City completed concrete and 
street paving work. Caltrain awarded construction contract and issued Limited Notice-to-Proceed to 
contractor, Stacy & Witbeck. Project in preliminary engineering design phase. City and Caltrain held 
meeting regarding public outreach strategy. 
30
Public Works
Plan for the downtown grade separations and long-term 
train corridor improvements
Grant opportunities continue to be reviewed for this effort. No new grant applications have been 
submitted at this time.  
31
Public Works
Improve traffic flow on 19th Ave and Fashion Island 
Boulevard from Grant to Mariners Island Boulevard
Completed initial phase of outreach for Smart Corridor and Mobility Hub feasibility study; began 
development of conceptual alternatives. Discussed coordination with City project at Norfolk/Fashion 
Island with the SMCTA team.  
32
Public Works
Complete all High and Medium-High priority projects in 
the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the Pedestrian Master 
Plan
RFP for Delaware Corridor project posted. Re-started consultant work on the 28th Avenue Gap Closure 
project for new design alternatives.  
Items to be completed in 5 or more years
4
448 of 460

--- page 449 ---
City Council Priority List: 
Progress Report
Denise Garcia
Management Analyst, City Manager’s Office
449 of 460

--- page 450 ---
Goal for this discussion:
• City Council to review and discuss (if needed) the priorities and 
updates to the 2023-24 City Council Priority List.
450 of 460

--- page 451 ---
Fiscal Year 2023-24 City Council Priorities 
Timeline
February 11
Blue sky 
workshop
March 20
Draft Priority 
List Review
April 17
Priority List 
Adopted
July 1
Priority List  
commences
Today
Progress Report of 
the Priority List
451 of 460

--- page 452 ---
Status Updates
• The City Council Priority List 
identifies Council priority items staff will 
work on between July 1, 2023 and June 
30, 2024.
• All priorities are on track.
• A handful of priorities have not yet 
commenced but are slated for later this 
fiscal year.
• A couple of priorities are now complete.
452 of 460

--- page 453 ---
Priorities Commencing
in 2024
Items to be complete in 1 
year: 
• #4: Integrate master plans to 
increase efficiency and 
community impact. Propose to 
move to 2–5-year completion 
category.
• #8: Initiate a Community Budget 
Process for anticipated revenue 
from Measure CC.
Items to be completed 
within 2 – 5 years:
• #11: Consider the adoption of 
wage theft protections.
• #12: Explore the establishment 
of Property-Based Improvement 
Districts.
453 of 460

--- page 454 ---
Completed Priorities
• Create a racial equity 
community art project
#6
• Adopt a Retail Cannabis 
Ordinance
#14
454 of 460

--- page 455 ---
Recommendation
• City Council review and discuss (if needed) the priorities and updates 
to the 2023-24 City Council Priority List.
455 of 460

--- page 456 ---
Thank You
Denise Garcia
Management Analyst/City Manager’s Office
dgarcia@cityofsanmateo.org
456 of 460

--- page 457 ---
Department Lead(s)

City Attorney's Office and
City Clerk's Office

City Clerk

City Manager's Office

City Manager's Office

Public Works

Community Development
and City Manager's Office

Community Development

Finance

Public Works

Council Priority

Status Update as of October 30, 2023

Items to be Completed within the Fiscal Year

Study campaign finance reform policies, including
voluntary expenditure limit, disclosure requirement for
independent expenditures, and improving access for
voter education initiatives

Explore increasing representation of youth and seniors on
City Boards and Commissions

Establish policies to decarbonize existing buildings and
infrastructure and eliminate methane gas use by 2030

Integrate master plans to increase efficiency and
community impact

Design and implement capital improvements for
permanent street closure

Create a racial equity community art project

Analyze density minimums for mixed-use projects and
update the Density Bonus and Community Benefits
policies

Initiate a Community Budget Process for anticipated
revenue from Measure CC

Remove North Shoreview from FEMA Flood Assessment

Presented to Council on 9/5/23 in study session. Ordinance introduction scheduled for November 6,
2023.

After completing a recruitment, 11 candidates were interviewed on October 18, 2023., appointment is
scheduled on November 6, 2023. Completed B&C demography study to inform future work: researching
youth participation on other boards and commissions.

In May 2023, Rincon Consultants began development of the "Sustainable Buildings Strategy." In
September 2023, Rincon completed the building inventory and market segmentation analysis and results
were presented to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission. A project update to City Council is
tentatively scheduled for a January Study Session. Outreach is ongoing.

Staff from the various department are concurrently working to consolidate and synthesize the master
plans to achieve this goal. This is an ongoing effort that will take multiple years to complete.

B Street Pedestrian Mall Improvements Project - Design is underway and the project is anticipated to be
put out to bid by November 30 and in construction Spring/Summer 2024.

Final design was approved by CAC in September and Artist is working on the art installation throughout
the month of October. Mural completion and unveiling is scheduled for October 28th.

A consultant, EPS, was retained in August and background work and data collection for the initiative
began in September.

Currently the City hasn't received any Measure CC revenues. Staff will continue to monitor the Measure
CC revenue collection.

FEMA issued an AD (Additional Data) Letter on September 12, 2023 for clarification. New deadline
revised to December 11, 2023 and staff is currently working on updated submission to comply to FEMA's
request.

—— CITY OF



--- page 458 ---
Department Lead|s) Council Priority Status Update as of October 30, 2023

Items to be Completed within 2 to 5 Years

. . PlaceWorks conducted a technical update to the Climate Action Plan to align with the General Plan.
pe City Managers Office and jImplement the Climate Action Plan and worktoreduce |, 1 tthe cap Technical Update is tentatively scheduled for early 2024 in conjunction with the

Community Development |greenhouse gas emissions

General Plan.

11 {City Manager's Office | Consider the adoption of wage theft protections Staff will bring forward best practices from other jurisdictions during a study session in the near future.
12 _ |City Manager's Office Explore the establishment of Property-Based Staff will schedule a study session for City Council to evaluate how Property-Based Improvement Districts
Improvement Districts are formed.

. . Staff is going to first evaluate what current systems are in place, what types of integration are possible,
City Manager's Office Eapone the implermertation of a Customer Response and has begun initial research on 311 service providers. Will require significant staff resources and

Ma t or 311
nagement or 311 system internal process evaluation, which is expected to take time.

City Manager's Office and
City Attorney's Office

Staff presented policy and permit options for consideration to City Council on October 2nd. City Council

Adopt a Retail Cannabis Ordinance deferred this item to year 2025.

5 City Manager's Office and |Review and update the City Charter related to district Presentation to Council at October 16, 2023 study session. Future study session scheduled for January 2,
City Attorney's Office elections, mayoral rotation, and filling Council vacancies 2024.

Staff is working with the Office of Emergency Services (under San Mateo Consolidated Fire) to develop a
near-term Wet Weather Emergency Action Plan (EAP), as well as a longer-term new Citywide EAP.

City Manager's Office and |Enhance city-wide disaster response and emergency

—— CITY OF



--- page 459 ---
General Plan Update work is ongoing and remains on schedule for completion in early 2024. The Draft
General Plan was published in July and extensive community outreach and engagement campaign were

17 |Community Development |Update the General Plan initiated. Outreach continued, the Draft EIR was published, and a General Plan Subcommittee meeting
was held in August. In September the City hosted five town hall meetings, various other outreach
activities and held 2 public meetings before the Planning Commission.

Based on Council direction, the Housing Element was updated and posted for public review in July and
submitted to HCD in August. Code amendments to update the planning application extension process and
clarity safety requirements for projects with housing were adopted in August and went into effect in
September.

Community Development |Implement Housing Element Policies

Architect and civil engineers completed onsite visits and will soon complete assessment report with
recommendation for design of foundation improvements. Next PW will consult with library staff
regarding interior library space scope. Construction start moved to fall 2024.

Library and Public Works |Address structural issues at the Marina Library

Phase 4's construction is ongoing - completed concrete and streetlight work. Grind/pave road

Public Works reconstruction is underway. City will receive 65% PS&E by beginning of November for phase 5.

Reconstruct all failed streets in San Mateo by 2026

Phase 2's project closed out. All paperwork and payments for PG&E agreements are complete for phase
3. Phase 4 - 65% PS&E is on-going, but not critical path due to delays to PG&E agreements. PG&E did not
start work on our service locations during Q1.

Replace all remaining high voltage circuits to improve
safety and reliability of the street light system

Public Works

Collection system capacity improvements, annual sewer investigations, and upgrades are in progress and
Fund and deliver the Clean Water Program continue. Construction of the WWTP Upgrade & Expansion, Immediate Action, and Annual Major
Components projects are in progress and will continue.

Public Works

—— CITY OF



--- page 460 ---
Department Lead(s) Council Priority Status Update as of October 30, 2023

items to be completed in 5 or more years

Current master plan (MP) from 2017 remains relevant. The last item completed from the MP was a
renovation of the children's library at the main library. Renovating the business area, jobseekers
assistance area, or biotech area represent possible smaller projects that could be addressed individually
at a relatively smaller cost.

Implement Library Space Master Plan

In process of finalizing construction documents for the playground. A number of bidders have been
prequalified for the construction of the playground in preparation of seeking pricing. The Fallen Heroes
Parks & Recreation Implement the Central Park Master Plan Memorial which will be built adjacent to the playground has identified a fabricator and purchase
agreements are being prepared so that the inauguration of the Memorial can take place in late Spring
2024.

Expedite efforts to improve the stormwater collection, ; . . . a _ ,
(On October 16, City Council held a public meeting at which ti of did not
Public Works drainage, and storage system, including dredging the " rt aby one a puiie mene ch time a majority of property owners cd n

Marine lagoon protest the proposed fee. Council authorized moving into the ballot phase.

26 |Public Works Meet the 100% trash reduction mandate el was released and proposals received. Proposal review and consultant selection for design are
underway.

Kick off meeting with Peninsula Clean Energy to help facilitate the process in reviewing all city facilities to
Public Works Implement a Green Fleet by 2030 select the best for EV chargers for city vehicles. Identifying fleet vehicle assets at each location to
eventually be converted to EV.

Expedite efforts to produce potable water from the Clean

28 |Public Works
e Water Program

Project in preliminary engineering design and environmental review phase.

For the 4th and Sth Ave Railroad Crossings Projects, construction is ongoing. City completed concrete and
Minimize impacts to residents from train horn noise at —_|street paving work. Caltrain awarded construction contract and issued Limited Notice-to-Proceed to

City at-grade crossings contractor, Stacy & Witbeck. Project in preliminary engineering design phase. City and Caltrain held
meeting regarding public outreach strategy.

Plan for the downtown grade separations and long-term |Grant opportunities continue to be reviewed for this effort. No new grant applications have been
train corridor improvements submitted at this time.

Completed initial phase of outreach for Smart Corridor and Mobility Hub feasibility study; began
development of conceptual alternatives. Discussed coordination with City project at Norfolk/Fashion
Island with the SMCTA team.

Improve traffic flow on 19th Ave and Fashion Island
Boulevard from Grant to Mariners Island Boulevard

Complete all High and Medium-High priority projects in
Public Works the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the Pedestrian Master
Plan

RFP for Delaware Corridor project posted. Re-started consultant work on the 28th Avenue Gap Closure
project for new design alternatives.

—— CITY OF ———_
