source: packet.pdf
sha256: f4993e067f92d890adb325847b3e8c8dac70919aac819bbbab39857058c75975
pages: 12
ocr_pages: 4
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Civic Arts Committee
September 9, 2024
4:00 PM
San Mateo City Hall
Conference Room C
330 West 20  Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
COMMITTEE MEMBERS
Stephen Tabler, Chair
Robert Gooyer, Vice Chair
Seema Patel
Ginger Slonaker
Dianne Whitaker
AGENDA
 
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call 
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Civic Arts Committee Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the Civic Arts Committee Regular meeting of January 8, 2024.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the Committee at this time. State
law prevents the Committee from taking action on any matter not on the agenda. Your comments may be referred to staff for follow
up.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
Art in Public Places 2023-2024 Report & Plan, Renewal of Civic Arts Committee, and Reappointment of
Committee Members - Recommendation
The Civic Arts Committee recommends the City Council approve the Art in Public Places 2023-2024 Report &
Plan, renew the Civic Arts Committee for two years, and reappoint the current Civic Arts Committee members.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Committee members and staff report on their various assignments and liaison roles and requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this meeting may
contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or polds@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to
make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received prior to the meeting in writing until 12 p.m. the day of the meeting. Send comments to:
civicartscommittee@cityofsanmateo.org 
th
1 of 12

--- page 2 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 
File ID: 24-9097
TO:
Civic Arts Committee
FROM:
Zachary Dahl
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
September 09, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Civic Arts Committee Meeting Minutes – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Civic Arts Committee Regular meeting of January 8, 2024.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this administrative action.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes of the Civic Arts Committee Regular meeting of January 8, 2024
STAFF CONTACT
Jennifer Rosas, Business Manager
jrosas@cityofsanmateo.org
650) 522-7164
2 of 12

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Civic Arts Committee 
Regular Meeting
January 8, 2024
4:00 PM
San Mateo City Hall 
Conference Room C 
30 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMITTEE MEMBERS
Stephen Tabler, Chair
Robert Gooyer, Vice Chair
Ginger Slonaker
Seema Patel
Dianne Whitaker
 
MINUTES 
CALL TO ORDER
CTO: 4:02 p.m.
Roll Call: 
PRESENT: Chair Stephen Tabler, Vice Chair Robert Gooyer, Seema Patel, Dianne Whitaker
EXCUSED: Ginger Slonaker
STAFF: Jennifer Rosas, Business Manager, Community Development
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Civic Arts Committee Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the Civic Arts Committee Regular meeting of August 14, 2023.
2.
Civic Arts Committee Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the Civic Arts Committee Regular meeting of November 13, 2023.

Motion to approve made by Committee Member Whitaker to approve all consent items; Seconded by Vice 
Chair Gooyer; passed 4-0-0
PUBLIC COMMENT

The committee received two public comments in person, both from residents representing the San Mateo 
Heritage Alliance stating, “Art should show history of San Mateo, should be traditional, not brightly colored or 
mosaic.” And “The art should be traditional and compatible with the downtown historic district. It should 
represent historic San Mateo. A mosaic or mural would be preferred over a metal piece.”

The committee also received one public comment via email stating, “B street is the heart of our downtown and 
it is important to make it memorable for the visitors and pleasant for residents. We already have too many 
buildings looking like plain boxes and I feel that San Mateo is losing its face and historic charm, which attracts 
people to our beautiful city in first place. Please request the developer to make this building more in line with the 
traditional downtown architecture. As for the art display – I am opposed to it, as mural art is highly subjective, 
and I think windows would be a much better option.”
NEW BUSINESS
3.
31--57 S. B Street (1st & B) Commercial Development Project Art Proposal-Study Session
3 of 12

--- page 4 ---
Review and provide input regarding to the applicant on the proposed public art location and design concepts for the 
public art associated with the "1st & B" commercial development project located at 31-57 S. B Street. This project is 
currently under review as a planning application (PA-2022-089).

The Committee reviewed the proposed project and gave feedback related to the design, structure, artist 
selection, safety elements, durability, and all agreed on the proposed location of placement of the art work on 
the building facade. 

No motion required. The developer, Harvest Properties, agreed to return to the Committee when they are 
closer to selecting a final design and artist.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS

Staff Rosas announced that the new City Council liaison for the Committee was Councilmember Lee.  
ADJOURNMENT

Adjourned at 4:53 p.m.
4 of 12

--- page 5 ---
5 of 12

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 24-9099
TO:
Civic Arts Committee
FROM:
Zachary Dahl
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
September 09, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Art in Public Places 2023-2024 Report & Plan, Renewal of Civic Arts Committee, and Reappointment of Committee 
Members - Recommendation
RECOMMENDATION:
The Civic Arts Committee recommends the City Council approve the Art in Public Places 2023-2024 Report & Plan, renew 
the Civic Arts Committee for two years, and reappoint the current Civic Arts Committee members.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo’s Art in Public Places Ordinance (Ordinance) was approved in July 2005 to promote the development 
of cultural and artistic resources within the community (Chapter 23.60, “Art in Public Places”). Annual reporting is required 
by the Ordinance and each year an Art in Public Places Report and Plan (Report) is prepared for review by the Civic Arts 
Committee (CAC), which was established in 2005, and approval by the City Council. The report provides information about 
projects that have been completed during the calendar year, projects that are currently in progress, pipeline projects, and 
administrative activities. The 2022 Report was approved by City Council on November 7, 2022. Due to staff changes and 
limited information to report, no annual report was provided in 2023 so this report includes both 2023 and 2024.
Administration 
One of the requirements of the Ordinance is for private developers of projects over a $3 million valuation to either install 
an art piece of a certain value or pay a fee in-lieu of the art piece. In-lieu fees are placed in the Art in Public Places Fund 
(Fund), and can be used for Ordinance administration, art acquisition, installation, and/or improvement, maintenance of 
City-owned public art, development of an Art in Public Places Master Plan (Master Plan), and other public art related 
activities. On November 15, 2021, as part of the City’s comprehensive fee study, the Ordinance was revised to increase the 
art obligation/in-lieu fee amount from 0.5% to 1.19% of the total building valuation, excluding the value of land acquisition 
and off-site improvement costs. The purpose of the increase was to ensure City costs to administer the program are fully 
recovered. 
Planning 
On November 7, 2022, the City Council approved the 2022 Report and with that, the Civic Arts Committee (CAC) request to 
move ahead with the development of a Master Plan. Due to staff changes and staffing shortages, limited progress was 
made in 2023. To date, staff has begun researching various jurisdictions similar to San Mateo that have developed art 
master plans, or are in progress of doing so, to see where we may gain insights from others. Next steps include the 
collaboration of City departments to identify the subjects and activities to include in a Request for Proposals (RFP) for a 
consultant to facilitate the process and help the City develop the proposed draft plan. The RFP will be initiated in 2025. 
Art 
6 of 12

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
On February 13, 2023, the CAC reviewed 12 RFP submission seeking an artist for the Racial Equity Art Project and invited 7 
applicants to submit design proposals. On May 31, 2023 the CAC reviewed the six proposal submissions containing 26 
designs and the community feedback resulting from public engagement activities. The Committee recommended artist 
Rafael Blanco for Council approval. The Committee also requested Council to direct the Committee to work with make the 
final design decision. On June 20, 2023 the City Council (Council) approved Rafael Blanco as the artist selected for the 
Racial Equity Art Project. As reported in the last annual report, the closing of B Street blocks for a permanent Pedestrian 
Mall allowed for its use as a unique and large enough space to use for the project. The Council directed the CAC to work 
with Mr. Blanco in revising and approving the design to expand to both Pedestrian Mall blocks and incorporate the 
feedback from the public, the City Council, and the CAC. This CAC held a study session to review and discuss the draft 
designs on Monday, August 14, 2023 then met on September 11, 2023 and unanimously agreed to approve the final 
design. The mural was completed in October 2023 and the unveiling took place on October 28, 2023. 
On November 13, 2023 the CAC reviewed the City public art project for the Fallen Heroes Memorial and recommended to 
City Council a budget transfer of $103,400 from the Art in Public Places Fund to the Parks and Recreation Capital 
Improvement Budget for the fabrication of the Fallen Heroes Memorial artwork. On December 4, 2023 the City Council 
approved the budget transfer and the art work was completed and unveiled on May 23, 2024. 
On January 8, 2024, the CAC reviewed and made recommendations for a proposed art project as part of a new commercial 
development at 31-57 S. B Street (1st & B). The developer has not yet returned to the committee with any update on the 
proposed design. 
Committee Renewal and Terms 
The Civic Arts Committee is a special committee subject to the provisions of Section 6.09 of the City Charter that states 
that the terms of such committees are not to exceed two years but may be extended by action of the Council for a period 
not exceeding the original term of the committee. The City Attorney interprets this provision to mean that the CAC may be 
renewed by the Council every two years for a two-year period and the current committee members may be reappointed. 
There are no term limits in place for this committee although the ex-officio City Council representative and the 
representative of the Planning Commission are subject to the existing terms of those bodies. Current members are: 
• City Arts of San Mateo Representative – Dianne Whitaker 
• AIA Architect Representative - Robert Gooyer 
• Professional Artist Representative - Ginger Slonaker 
• Planning Commission Representative - Seema Patel 
• Chamber of Commerce Representative - Stephen Tabler 
BUDGET IMPACT:
This recommendation has no budget impact, this report is a ministerial action only for the Civic Arts Committee.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This recommendation to City Council is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not 
cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Art in Public Places 2023-2024 Report & Plan - DRAFT
STAFF CONTACT
Jennifer Rosas, Business Manager
jrosas@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7164
7 of 12

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
8 of 12

--- page 9 ---
Public

Places

2023-2024
REPORT &
PLAN

INSIDE

PG. 2

e §=Artin Public Places
Program

e §=Artin Public Places
Fund

e Program Policy

PG. 3

e Completed Projects

PG. 4

e  =In-Progress & Pipeline

Projects

9 of 12


--- page 10 ---
ART IN PUBLIC PLACES PROGRAM

DESCRIPTION OF ART IN PUBLIC PLACES ORDINANCE AND PROGRAM

The City of San Mateo’s Art in Public Places Ordinance (Ordinance) was approved in July 2005 to promote the development
of cultural and artistic resources within the community (Chapter 23.60, “Art in Public Places”). Annual reporting is required
by the Ordinance and each year an Art in Public Places Report and Plan (Report) is prepared for review by the Civic Arts
Committee (CAC), which was established in 2005, and approval by the City Council. The report provides information about
projects that have been completed during the calendar year, projects that are currently in progress, pipeline projects, and

administrative activities.

ART IN PUBLIC PLACES FUND

FUND SOURCES, USES, & FUND BALANCE

One of the requirements of the Ordinance is for
private developers of projects over a $3 million
valuation to either install an art piece of a certain
value or pay a fee in-lieu of the art piece. Should the
art value not meet the obligated amount, the balance
is required to be paid in-lieu. In-lieu fees are placed in
the Art in Public Places Fund (Fund), and can be used
for Ordinance administration, art acquisition,
installation, and/or improvement, maintenance of
City-owned public art, development of an Art in Public
Places Master Plan (Master Plan), and other public art
related activities.

Any art related activities that need expenditure of
these funds requires a recommendation of approval
from the Civic Arts Committee to the City Council and
the Council’s approval.

In recent years, several project developers chose to
pay the in-lieu fee. As a result, the fund balance in the
Art in Public Places Capital Improvement Program
(CIP) account is approximately $1,044,000.

CHANGES TO ART IN PUBLIC PLACES FEE

On November 15, 2021, as part of the City’s
comprehensive fee study, the Ordinance was revised
to increase the art obligation/in-lieu fee amount from
0.5% to 1.19% of the total building valuation,
excluding the value of land acquisition and off-site
improvement costs.

The fee will automatically increase annually in line
with the other City fee increases, which are based on
the Construction Cost Index for the San Francisco
Area. The purpose of the increase was to ensure City
costs to administer the program are fully recovered.

The next increase will be reviewed and considered in
2025 as part of the Comprehensive Fee Update
project.

PROGRAM POLICY

PUBLIC ART MASTER PLAN

On November 7, 2022, the City Council approved the
2022 Report and with that, the Civic Arts Committee
(CAC) request to move ahead with the development of
a Master Plan.

To date, staff has begun researching various
jurisdictions similar to San Mateo that have developed
art master plans, or are in progress of doing so, to see
where we may gain insights from others.

Next steps include the collaboration of City
departments to identify the subjects and activities to
include in a Request for Proposals (RFP) for a consultant
to facilitate the process and help the City develop the
proposed draft plan.

A Master Plan Art is intended to align all public art
related activities with current practices that meet the
City’s interests and needs.

The Civic Arts Committee will lead this effort and

community engagement will be a vital component of
the development of the Master Plan.

10 of 12


--- page 11 ---
COMPLETED PROJECTS

ART INSTALLED BY DEVELOPERS AT THEIR PROJECT LOCATIONS

Two projects fully completed their art installations in 2023 and 2024: The Racial Equity Art Project, aspictured on the
front page and below, and the Fallen Heroes Art Memorial shown below. Formal completion of art projects requires
installation in accordance with the approved proposal and final inspections for all art related building permits, the
provision of financial documents confirming the obligated expenditures, and a recorded Covenant of Public Art
Maintenance with San Mateo County to establish the property owner’s obligation to maintain the art.

Remembrance Poppy

Fallen Heroes Art Memorial
Central Park

Artist: RRM Design Group

Materials: Seven reflective stainless steel monuments
with engraved names, painted steel 'slice' poppy image

Granite bench, decorative paving, flush mount lights
Completed in May 2024

When viewed from one specific point, the monuments
will unite to form a single image — the remembrance
poppy.

11 of 12


--- page 12 ---
EQUITY PUBLIC ART
PROJECT

SUPPORTING RACIAL EQUITY

In July 2020, the City Council adopted a resolution
reaffirming the City of San Mateo’s commitment to
racial equality and equity. The Council discussed the
concept of a community mural or other community
art project that would reflect and promote racial
equity and diversity.

On June 20, 2023 the City Council (Council) approved
Rafael Blanco as the artist selected for the Racial
Equity Art Project. As reported in the last annual
report, the closing of B Street blocks for a permanent
Pedestrian Mall allowed for its use as a unique and
large enough space to use for the project. The
Council directed the CAC to work with Mr. Blanco in
revising and approving the design to expand to both
Pedestrian Mall blocks and incorporate the feedback
from the public, the City Council, and the CAC. This
CAC held a study session to review and discuss the
draft designs on August 14, 2023 then met on
September 11, 2023 and unanimously agreed to
approve the final design. The mural was completed in
October 2023 and the unveiling took place on
October 28, 2023.

SPECIAL MENTION:

480 E. 4th Ave: Kiku Crossing - MidPen Housing &
City-Owned Downtown site for

Affordable Housing & Parking Garage

The mural on the Kiku Crossing project was
completed in December 2022 but was not included
in the 2022 Annual Report. Harumo Sato, was
selected to create three murals that stand up to
54-feet tall on the Kiku Crossing parking garage.
Artist and mural are pictured here (right).

Artist Horumo Sato created three Jorge murals for the Kiku Crossing parking
garage and affordable housing development in Downtown San Mateo.

PIPELINE PROJECTS

The project listed below has been identified as large enough that it is expected to be obligated to provide art or pay the
in-lieu fees. The pipeline project developer has contacted staff regarding their art interests and obligations and has
already made an initial presentation to the CAC for feedback on concepts and design.

= 31-57 5S. B Street (1st & B): Four-story retail and office building in Downtown

12 of 12
