source: packet.pdf
sha256: f869657697cdd389e1e3abdc9c830ad960e409a125dd2eb4ea8568fee44dad2a
pages: 51
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
October 16, 2023
5:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber 330 W.
20th Avenue San Mateo CA 94403
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Amourence Lee
Lisa Diaz Nash
Rob Newsom Jr.
Adam Loraine
Rich Hedges
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: October 16, 2023 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 881 8553 6938      Passcode: 599887
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
 
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the consideration of these items. Following the meeting a report of action
from Closed Session will be provided if required.
1.
Conference with Labor Negotiators (Government Code Section 54957.6)
City designated representatives: Stacey Cue, Teresa Abrahamsohn, Karen Huang, and Yumi Maeda
Employee Organizations: San Mateo Safety Management Association and Service Employees International Union
(SEIU) Local 521 Library Merit
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
2.
Charter Amendments - Study Session
Provide feedback and direction on proposed City Charter amendments addressing how the Mayor is chosen,
filling Council vacancies, district elections, and other revisions; and provide direction on whether to schedule a
future study session regarding Council compensation.
CEQA: This study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)
3.
Hate Speech and Remote Public Comment during Public Meetings
Discuss the recent occurrence of hate speech through remote public comment during the October 2, 2023 City
Council meeting and provide direction on possible remote public comment procedural changes.
CEQA: This discussion regarding remote public comment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an
organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the
1 of 51

--- page 2 ---
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 51

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-1711
File ID: 23-8110
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Prasanna W. Rasiah, City Attorney
PREPARED BY:
City Attorney's Office
MEETING DATE:
October 16, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Charter Amendments - Study Session
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide feedback and direction on proposed City Charter amendments addressing how the Mayor is chosen, filling Council 
vacancies, district elections, and other revisions; and provide direction on whether to schedule a future study session 
regarding Council compensation.
BACKGROUND:
At its Fiscal Year 2022-23 Goal Setting, the City Council directed staff to review and update the City Charter related to 
district elections, mayoral rotation, and filling Council vacancies. In addition, staff is proposing other miscellaneous 
changes to the Charter where warranted, in the interests of removing or modifying outdated language. This is explained 
later in this report.  Note that an adjustment to Council compensation consistent with general law cities does not require a 
Charter amendment, as explained below.  If directed by the Council, staff will schedule a separate study session on this 
topic.
Staff is seeking Council feedback this evening on the following questions:
1.
Substantively, does the Council agree with: 
A.
The proposed Charter amendment language addressing mayoral rotation, filling vacancies, district 
elections and other changes?  
B.
Or does the Council wish to make changes?
 
2.
Procedurally, does the Council agree with:
A.
Splitting the amendments into two measures, with the shift to district elections and other non- 
controversial changes grouped into one measure?
B.
The proposed schedule of Council meetings?
C.
The proposed plan for community outreach, consultant assistance, and polling?
DISCUSSION:
California cities are either general law cities or charter cities.  Once a charter is adopted, it becomes the “constitution” of 
the adopting city.  The California Constitution authorizes cities to adopt a charter, and once adopted by a majority of 
voters has the force and effect of state law.  Cal. Const. Art. XI §3.  Amendments to a charter may only be approved by the 
voters.  Charter cities have the power to make and enforce all ordinances and regulations regarding municipal affairs but 
are subject to state laws on matters of statewide concern.  The San Mateo City Charter was first adopted in 1922 and was 
substantially revised in 1970.  According to City records, the voters have considered sixty-two (62) separate ballot 
3 of 51

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
measures amending the Charter, starting in 1937 and most recently in 2017.  Of these 62 attempts, thirty (30) have 
succeeded.  
 
This staff report first describes the substance of the proposed measures, starting with the City Council priorities for FY 
2023-24. It then presents additional amendments as recommended by staff that are intended to be non-controversial or 
non-substantive in nature.  A proposed schedule of study sessions and public hearings is included towards the end of the 
report that complies with state law and is intended to accommodate significant input from the Council and community.  
 
As noted above, staff recommends that once the Council settles on which amendments to pursue, the changes should be 
divided into two separate ballot measures. One would include measures that are either non-controversial and/or are 
necessary to reflect the shift to district elections. The remaining amendments would be included in a separate measure. 
How these should be grouped will also depend on advice from a ballot measure consultant and appropriate polling. For 
reference, in 2022 Redwood City submitted two separate measures to the voters: one reflecting the shift to district 
elections amongst other changes (which passed) and another that would have shortened the term of the mayor from two 
years to one year (which failed).  
A.  Proposed Charter Amendments – City Council Priorities
 
Mayoral Rotation
Existing Charter Language 
Proposed Charter Language
 
The council shall meet at the first regular council meeting 
in December following a general municipal election and 
canvass the returns thereof. The new members shall then 
be inducted into office, whereupon the council shall elect 
the mayor and deputy mayor. The regular meetings of the 
council shall be held on the first and third Monday of each 
month not earlier than 6:30 p.m., but any regular meeting 
may be adjourned to a date and time certain, which 
adjourned meeting shall be a regular meeting for all 
purposes. The council may, in its discretion, change the 
date of any regularly scheduled Monday council meeting 
which would fall on a holiday or other inconvenient day to 
the nearest convenient day subsequent to the regularly 
scheduled Monday council meeting.  (Sec. 2.09.)
 
 
The council shall meet at the first regular council meeting 
in December following a general municipal election and 
canvass the returns thereof. The new members shall then 
be inducted into office, whereupon the council shall elect 
the mayor and deputy mayor without continuing such 
action to a future date and time absent a unanimous 
vote of the Council, or a fire, flood, or other disaster. The 
regular meetings of the council shall be held on the first 
and third Monday of each month not earlier than 6:30 
p.m., but any regular meeting may be adjourned to a date 
and time certain, which adjourned meeting shall be a 
regular meeting for all purposes.
The proposed language would require the Council to select a Mayor at the first regular meeting in December and would 
prohibit continuing the action to a future date, unless one of two circumstances arose.  The first is if there is a fire, flood, 
or other disaster, recognizing that the priority in that situation would be immediate public health and safety needs rather 
than selecting a Mayor.  However, if the City is in a recovery stage and is able to host a Council meeting, this language 
would not prohibit selecting a Mayor either.  
 
The second circumstance is if the Council unanimously votes to continue the action.  This allows for additional flexibility 
where the Council agrees that the process of selecting a Mayor needs additional time, for any reason.  Alternatively, the 
language could provide for a less than unanimous vote to allow a continuance, such as 4/5 or a simple majority, in order to 
prevent one or two Councilmembers from forcing the body to make a decision when the remaining members are not 
ready to do so.  
 
The Council could decide to continue with the present system of rotation that emphasizes experience, and which the 
Council may disregard if it so chooses.  Under this system, each Council Member has a position in the rotation sequence, 
4 of 51

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
where the first person is typically selected as Mayor, and the second person in the sequence is typically selected as Deputy 
Mayor.  Chapter 5 of the Council Guidelines contains the current policy and can be found here.
Filling Council Vacancies
Existing Charter Language 
Proposed Charter Language
 
A vacancy on the city council from whatever cause arising 
shall be filled by appointment by the council provided, 
that if the council fails to agree or for any other reason 
does not fill such vacancy within 30 days after the same 
occurs, then such vacancy shall be filled by the mayor. The 
appointee shall hold office until the next general election, 
when a successor shall be chosen by the electors for the 
unexpired term. If for any reason the seats of a majority of 
the council become vacant, then the city clerk shall call a 
special election at once to fill the vacancies for the 
unexpired terms, and the same shall be conducted 
substantially in the manner provided for general municipal 
elections. The candidates receiving the most votes shall 
serve the longer, if any, of the unexpired terms, and in 
case of ties the terms shall be fixed by lot.  (Sec. 2.08.)
 
 
A vacancy on the city council from whatever cause arising 
shall be filled by appointment by the council provided, 
that if the council fails to agree or for any other reason 
does not fill such vacancy within 30 60 days after the same 
occurs, then the city clerk shall call a special election at 
once to fill such vacancy such vacancy shall be filled by 
the mayor. The An appointee shall hold office until the 
next general election, when a successor shall be chosen by 
the electors for the unexpired term. If for any reason the 
seats of a majority of the council become vacant, then the 
city clerk shall call a special election at once to fill the 
vacancies for the unexpired terms, and the same shall be 
conducted substantially in the manner provided for 
general municipal elections. The candidates receiving the 
most votes shall serve the longer, if any, of the unexpired 
terms, and in case of ties the terms shall be fixed by lot.
The proposed language would address several issues. First, by replacing the phrase, “the mayor” with text calling for a 
special election, the draft wording would remove the authority of the Mayor to fill vacancies and instead send the decision 
to the voters, if the Council is unable to make a decision within the allotted time. Notably, in 1983 Measure C was 
submitted to the voters that would have accomplished the same purpose with somewhat different wording, but that 
measure failed by a 46.4% to 53.6% vote.  
 
The time for the Council to make a decision on filling a vacancy would also be increased from 30 to 60 days. This is 
important because if a vacancy occurs due to a Councilmember being elected to another office, that would occur in 
November. The existing 30-day period would then expire in December during the holiday season. Extending the period to 
60 days would allow for increased outreach to the community and a more deliberate application, interview, and selection 
process. The Council would also have more time to weigh the benefits and drawbacks (such as expense) of a special 
election, versus making a decision to fill the vacancy after extensive community input. 
 
Finally, the draft language eliminates text allowing candidates receiving the most votes to serve the longer of unexpired 
terms (and addressing tie votes) where a majority of the Council seats become vacant.  But following the shift to district 
elections, candidates would no longer run for one of several at-large seats and would instead run for a single seat in their 
district.  Thus, the current language is no longer necessary.  
District Elections
Existing Charter Language 
Proposed Charter Language
 
There shall be a city council of five members elected by 
the voters of the city at large.  (Sec. 2.01(a).)
 
 
There shall be a city council of five members elected by 
the voters of the city at large by districts.  Any recall 
election or special election or appointment to fill a 
vacancy shall also be by district.  Following each 
decennial federal census, and at other such times as 
5 of 51

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
provided by law, the city council shall, by ordinance, 
adopt boundaries for all council districts so that all of the 
districts shall comply with state and federal law.
The proposed language simply reflects the fact that the members of the Council are now elected by district rather than at 
large, following a 2021 demand letter claiming a violation of the California Voting Rights Act and a change in City electoral 
practices.  The district election process is also codified in the San Mateo Municipal Code.  The additional proposed 
language clarifies that a redistricting process will occur every ten years, consistent with state and federal law, and that an 
appointee to fill a vacancy must live in the same district as the Councilmember who vacated the seat at issue.  
B.  Proposed Charter Amendments – Staff Recommendations
Councilmembers Elected in 2017
Existing Charter Language 
Proposed Charter Language
 
Provisions applicable to the councilmembers elected at 
the general municipal election held in 2015 and the 
councilmembers elected at the general municipal election 
held in 2017.
 
1.
The incumbent councilmembers elected at the 
general municipal election held in 2015 shall have 
their term extended by one year, until the general 
municipal election held in 2020.
2.
The three councilmembers elected at the general 
municipal election held in 2017 shall hold office 
for a term of five years, commencing on the first 
regular council meeting in December 2017 until 
the general municipal election held in 2022.
3.
These provisions are necessary to effectuate the 
change in timing of general municipal elections 
from odd-numbered years to even-numbered 
years, as approved by the voters of city in the 
general municipal election held in 2017.  (Sec. 
2.01(d).)
 
 
Provisions applicable to the councilmembers elected at 
the general municipal election held in 2015 and the 
councilmembers elected at the general municipal election 
held in 2017.
 
1.
The incumbent councilmembers elected at the 
general municipal election held in 2015 shall have 
their term extended by one year, until the general 
municipal election held in 2020.
2.
The three councilmembers elected at the general 
municipal election held in 2017 shall hold office 
for a term of five years, commencing on the first 
regular council meeting in December 2017 until 
the general municipal election held in 2022.
3.
These provisions are necessary to effectuate the 
change in timing of general municipal elections 
from odd-numbered years to even-numbered 
years, as approved by the voters of city in the 
general municipal election held in 2017.
This Charter provision was added by the voters in 2017 in order to comply with Senate Bill 415 (SB 415).  SB 415 required 
cities to realign their elections to even numbered years if prior odd-year elections had resulted in a significant decrease in 
voter turnout.  The City’s 2017 ballot measure did so, also extending the terms of Councilmembers elected in 2015 and 
2017 by one year to facilitate this goal.  It passed by a vote 81.4% to 18.6%.  However, the terms of office for 
Councilmembers elected in 2015 and 2017 have now ended (as of 2022 for the latter), and this language is no longer 
needed.  Charter Section 2.01(c) provides for the staggered election of Councilmembers in 2020 (two seats) and 2022 
(three seats), and even-numbered years thereafter, for a term of four years.  
6 of 51

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Publication and Expiration of Emergency (Urgency) Ordinances
Existing Charter Language 
Proposed Charter Language
 
Any ordinance declared by the council to be necessary as 
an emergency measure for preserving the public peace, 
health, safety, or welfare and containing the reasons for 
its urgency, may be introduced and passed at one and the 
same meeting and, if passed by a majority of the council 
plus one, shall become effective immediately. As soon as 
practicable after its passage an emergency ordinance shall 
be published in the official city newspaper, but the validity 
of the ordinance shall not depend upon such publication. 
Every such ordinance, except one for emergency 
appropriations or calling an election, shall automatically 
stand repealed as of the ninety-first day following the date 
on which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent 
reenactment of the ordinance if the emergency still exists.  
(Sec. 2.16.)
 
 
Any ordinance declared by the council to be necessary as 
an emergency measure for preserving the public peace, 
health, safety, or welfare and containing the reasons for 
its urgency, may be introduced and passed at one and the 
same meeting and, if passed by a majority of the council 
plus one, shall become effective immediately. As soon as 
practicable after its passage an emergency ordinance shall 
be published in the official city newspaper, but the validity 
of the ordinance shall not depend upon such publication. 
In lieu of publishing the full text of an emergency 
ordinance, a summary thereof may be published in the 
same manner as other ordinances.  Every such ordinance, 
except one for emergency appropriations or calling an 
election, shall automatically stand repealed as of the 
ninety-first day following the date on which it was 
adopted, but this shall not prevent reenactment of the 
ordinance if the emergency still exists.
The draft language would allow for the publication of a summary of an emergency ordinance (more commonly known as 
an urgency ordinance).  Currently, the Charter does not allow publication of a summary, and therefore the entire urgency 
ordinance must be published in the newspaper.  This change would result in modest cost savings, but more importantly 
would allow for the same flexibility in publishing urgency ordinances that exists for standard ordinances under Section 
2.15(d) of the Charter.
 
Furthermore, this proposal would eliminate language requiring the automatic repeal of urgency ordinances on the 91st day 
after adoption. This language was not part of the original 1922 Charter and was added in 1970. The circumstances 
requiring the urgency ordinance would not necessarily have been resolved approximately three months after adoption.  
Eliminating this text would not prevent the Council from affirmatively repealing an urgency ordinance as appropriate.  
Verified Statement of Candidates
Existing Charter Language 
Proposed Charter Language
 
(a) No earlier than the first day, and no later than the last 
day, specified or provided under state law for the filing 
of nomination papers by any candidate for elective 
municipal office in general law cities, as such law shall 
be in effect on the first day of January next preceding 
the municipal election, each candidate for an elective 
office shall file with the city clerk a statement 
containing the following information in the order 
herein set forth:
1. His/her name;
 
2. The office for which he/she is a candidate;
3. His/her present residence and occupation;
 
(a) No earlier than the first day, and no later than the last 
day, specified or provided under state law for the filing 
of nomination papers by any candidate for elective 
municipal office in general law cities, as such law shall 
be in effect on the first day of January next preceding 
the municipal election, each candidate for an elective 
office shall file with the city clerk a statement 
containing the following information in the order 
herein set forth:
1. His/her name;
2. The office for which he/she is a candidate;
3. His/her present residence and occupation;
7 of 51

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
4. The various kinds of business or employment he/she 
has been engaged in during the past five years and 
where, also the positions of importance and trust which 
he/she may have held in connection therewith;
5. The civic, improvement or other organizations which 
he/she has been a member of within the past five years 
and the positions of honor or trust, which he/she may 
have held therein;
6. The public offices he/she ever held, if any, as 
principal, deputy or employee;
7. The experience, training or education he/she has 
received which, in his/her opinion, would qualify him to 
fill the office for which he/she is a candidate;
8. The length of time he/she has been a resident in the 
city;
9. The principal public improvements or betterments 
which he/she would urge the accomplishment of if 
elected;
10. The names of not more than 15 residents who know 
something of his/her character and abilities;
11. Any other information which, in his/her opinion, 
would enable the electors to determine his/her 
qualifications for said office.
 
(b) Said statement shall be verified, and be accompanied 
by a photograph of the candidate taken within the past 
two years.
 
(c) The city clerk shall cause the publication of the 
statements of each candidate so filed, with the 
candidate's photo engraving annexed thereto, in the 
official city newspaper by two insertions therein prior 
to the day of election. No response to any one of the 
various requirements above-mentioned shall exceed 
100 words in length.
 
(d) The failure to submit the statement or other 
information shall not disqualify the candidate.
(Sec. 7.04.)
4. The various kinds of business or employment he/she 
has been engaged in during the past five years and 
where, also the positions of importance and trust which 
he/she may have held in connection therewith;
5. The civic, improvement or other organizations which 
he/she has been a member of within the past five years 
and the positions of honor or trust, which he/she may 
have held therein;
6. The public offices he/she ever held, if any, as 
principal, deputy or employee;
7. The experience, training or education he/she has 
received which, in his/her opinion, would qualify him to 
fill the office for which he/she is a candidate;
8. The length of time he/she has been a resident in the 
city;
9. The principal public improvements or betterments 
which he/she would urge the accomplishment of if 
elected;
 
10. The names of not more than 15 residents who know 
something of his/her character and abilities;
 
11. Any other information which, in his/her opinion, 
would enable the electors to determine his/her 
qualifications for said office.
 
(b) Said statement shall be verified, and be accompanied 
by a photograph of the candidate taken within the past 
two years.
(c) The city clerk shall cause the publication of the 
statements of each candidate so filed, with the 
candidate's photo engraving annexed thereto, in the 
official city newspaper by two insertions therein prior 
to the day of election. No response to any one of the 
various requirements above-mentioned shall exceed 
100 words in length.
(d) The failure to submit the statement or other 
information shall not disqualify the candidate. 
The language proposed for elimination originally appeared in the 1922 Charter and has only undergone minor changes 
over the years.  As the Council is well aware, the manner in which election campaigns are conducted has vastly changed 
over the last century.  Instead of a statement with the prescribed information constituting a significant source of 
information for the voters, other sources of information are much more commonly used during an election campaign, such 
as Internet websites with written material and videos, social media, and other sources.  Candidates may also submit a 
statement to be included in a voter information guide that is distributed to voters.  
Other Charter Amendments
8 of 51

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
 
Additional Charter amendments are non-substantive in nature, namely adding more gender-neutral language where 
appropriate.  A complete copy of all proposed amendments is included as Attachment 1.  
C.  Charter Amendment Process
Under state law, the City Council may propose a charter amendment and submit it to the voters at the next statewide 
general election, at least 88 days before the election.  Govt. §34458(a).  The charter amendment will not be adopted until 
it is approved by a majority vote.    
Before approving the submittal of a charter amendment to the voters, the City Council must hold at least two public 
hearings, with published and posted notice, at least 21 calendar days prior to the date of each public hearing.  Govt. 
§34458(b).  The second public hearing must be held at least 30 days after the first public hearing, and at least one of the 
two hearings must be held outside of normal business hours to facilitate public participation.  Govt. §34458(b).  The 
Council cannot vote on whether to approve submitting the proposal to the voters until 21 days after the second public 
hearing.  Govt. §34458(b).  The Charter amendment must also be filed with the California Secretary of State and must be 
published in the official state statutes. Govt. §34461.  Thus, at least three Council meetings will be required after the 
Council agrees on the language of the proposed amendments, in addition to study sessions when proposed language can 
be refined by the Council and staff.  
 
Below is a proposed schedule that builds in a buffer between the projected date of submittal to the voters and the 
statutory deadline of 88 days before the election.  This will allow for better coordination with the County Elections office 
and an additional Council meeting, if necessary.  
Proposed Schedule
Dates
Purpose
October 16, 2023
Council Study Session 
Mid – October to Mid-December
Community outreach
January 2, 2024
Council Study Session
Early January to Mid-February
Community outreach
February 20, 2024
Council Study Session (if necessary)
Mid-February to Mid-March
Community outreach
April 1, 2024
First Public Hearing
May 6, 2024
Second Public Hearing
June 3, 2024
Council submits measure to voters 
August 9, 2024
88 days before election
November 5, 2024
Election Day
 
With respect to community outreach, City staff can provide information on the City’s website, through social media, and at 
community pop up events.  If desired by Council, staff can also publish notice in the newspaper of any future Council study 
session, in addition to legally required published notice for the two public hearings.  Further, it would be advisable to 
conduct community polling to ascertain the likelihood of passage for each of the proposed Charter revisions.  That 
feedback can be provided to the Council at any future study session.  
9 of 51

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
D.  Council Member Compensation; Board and Commission Member Compensation and Qualifications
Council Compensation
At the Blue Sky goal setting meeting on January 25, 2020, the Council agreed to a new priority to evaluate Council 
compensation.  However, the Covid-19 pandemic hit in March 2020, and Council priorities for approximately the next two 
years shifted to respond to more pressing community needs.  More recently, on July 17, 2023, during the reports and 
announcements portion of the regular meeting, the Council asked the DEI task force to weigh in on Council compensation.  
On July 21, 2023, the DEI task force considered the issue and recommended that compensation for the Council be 
increased but did not specify an amount.  
 
The City Charter states that, “The mayor and other members of the city council shall each receive $600.00 per month 
compensation for their services as council. Compensation may be adjusted in the manner authorized by the general laws 
of the State for general law cities of the same population as San Mateo.”  Chart. §2.03 (emphasis added).  This language 
was approved by the voters in November 2002 by a vote of 69.5% in favor to 30.5% against.   The 1922 Charter originally 
prohibited Council compensation, and a prior change in 1980 set compensation at $300 per month.  
 
Thus, the Charter builds in flexibility to adjust Council compensation consistent with general law cities without a Charter 
amendment.  Under state law, SB 329 (2023) compensation for council members in general law cities may be increased, 
and for cities between 75,000 and 150,000, the maximum compensation will be $1,900 per month as of January 1, 2024, 
although inflationary or other limited increases are permitted as specified.  Any adjustment to Council compensation must 
be accomplished by ordinance.  If directed by the Council, staff will schedule a separate study session item on this topic.  
 
Board and Commission Compensation and Qualifications
 
On July 17, 2023, the City Council considered whether to compensate those who serve on the City’s boards and 
commissions, and whether to amend their qualifications for service, in order to provide more opportunities and incentives 
to participate on boards and commissions.  The Charter requires Board and Commission members to possess the same 
qualifications as Councilmembers, who must be qualified electors and residents of the City.  Chart. §§2.01, 6.05.  Board 
and commission members are also barred from receiving compensation under the Charter but may receive reimbursement 
for expenses.  Chart. §6.06.  A change to either set of rules would require an amendment to the Charter.  Staff will bring 
back information on this topic at the next Charter amendment study session.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this study session. Should the Council direct staff to pursue further action on 
charter amendments, further analysis and scoping will be required.  Hiring a ballot measure consultant and polling 
consultant will likely cost approximately $150,000.  Placing each measure on the ballot at the consolidated November 5, 
2024 election will also cost approximately $100,000, for a total of $350,000. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Charter Amendments – Tracked Changes
LINKS
City Charter
City Council Guidelines
10 of 51

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Prasanna W. Rasiah, City Attorney
prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7020
11 of 51

--- page 12 ---
San Mateo City Charter
ARTICLE I NAME, BOUNDARIES, AND POWERS OF THE CITY
1.01
Name of The City.
The municipal corporation now existing and known as the City of San Mateo shall remain and continue 
to be a body politic and corporate as at present, in name, in fact and in law.
1.02
Boundaries.
The boundaries of said city shall be the same as now established, with power and authority to change 
the same as provided by law.
1.03
Powers.
Said city, by and through its council and other officials, shall have, and may exercise, all powers 
necessary or appropriate to a municipal corporation and the general welfare of its inhabitants which are 
not prohibited by the constitution and which it would be competent for this Charter to set forth 
particularly or specifically, including all powers now or hereafter granted, and the specification herein of 
any particular powers shall not be held to be exclusive or any limitation of this general grant of powers.
ARTICLE II LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT
2.01
Composition, Eligibility, Election and Terms.
(a) There shall be a city council of five members elected by the voters of the city at largeby 
districts.  Any recall election or special election or appointment to fill a vacancy shall also be by 
district.  Following each decennial federal census, and at other such times as provided by law, 
the city council shall, by ordinance, adopt boundaries for all council districts so that all of the 
districts shall comply with state and federal law.    
(b) No person shall be eligible to hold office as a member of the city council or for election 
thereto unless he or she isthey are, and shall have been continuously for at least 30 days 
immediately preceding the appointment or final filing date for nomination papers for such 
office, a qualified elector and resident of the city, or of territory annexed to or consolidated with 
the city.
(c) The members of the city council shall be elected by the voters of the city at a general 
municipal election to be held in the year 2020 and every even-numbered year as follows:
(1) Two councilmembers shall be elected at the general municipal election held in the 
year 2020. They shall hold office for a term of four years, commencing on the first 
regular council meeting in the December immediately following the general municipal 
election until the general municipal election the fourth year thereafter.
(2) Three councilmembers shall be elected at the general municipal election held in the 
year 2022. They shall hold office for a term of four years, commencing on the first 
regular council meeting in the December immediately following the general municipal 
election until the general municipal election the fourth year thereafter.
12 of 51

--- page 13 ---
(3) In the event two or more candidates receive the same number of votes and it is 
necessary for any reason to break the tie, the tie shall be broken by drawing lots under 
the supervision of the city attorney at the earliest meeting of the council after such a tie 
has been determined.
(d) Provisions applicable to the councilmembers elected at the general municipal election held 
in 2015 and the councilmembers elected at the general municipal election held in 2017.
(1) The incumbent councilmembers elected at the general municipal election held in 
2015 shall have their term extended by one year, until the general municipal election 
held in 2020.
(2) The three councilmembers elected at the general municipal election held in 2017 
shall hold office for a term of five years, commencing on the first regular council 
meeting in December 2017 until the general municipal election held in 2022.
(3) These provisions are necessary to effectuate the change in timing of general 
municipal elections from odd-numbered years to even-numbered years, as approved by 
the voters of city in the general municipal election held in 2017.
(de) Councilmembers shall not be eligible for election to nor serve more than three consecutive 
terms in office provided that no partial term of office shall be counted as any portion of the 
consecutive terms. (Res. No. 65 § 2, eff. 11-7-17)
2.02
Mayor.
The Council shall elect from among its members officers of the city who shall have the titles of mayor 
and deputy mayor, each of whom shall serve at the pleasure of the council. The mayor shall preside at 
meetings of the council, shall be recognized as head of the city government for all ceremonial purposes 
and by the governor for purposes of military law, but shall have no administrative duties. The deputy 
mayor shall act as mayor during the absence or disability of the mayor.
2.03
Compensation.
The mayor and other members of the city council shall each receive $600.00 per month compensation 
for their services as council. Compensation may be adjusted in the manner authorized by the general 
laws of the State for general law cities of the same population as San Mateo.
2.04
Beneﬁts and Expenses.
Retirement, health and welfare, and social security benefits shall be in addition to, and not be included 
in, the amount of compensation authorized by this Charter. The mayor and other members of the city 
council shall receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of 
office upon presentation of verified claims therefor on uniform forms to be prescribed by resolution of 
the city council.
2.05
General Powers and Duties.
13 of 51

--- page 14 ---
All powers of the city shall be vested in the council, except as otherwise provided by law or this Charter, 
and the council shall provide for the exercise thereof and for the performance of all duties and 
obligations imposed on the city by law.
2.06
Prohibitions.
(a) Holding Other Office: Except where authorized by law, no councilmember shall hold any 
other city office or city employment during the term for which they were he/she was elected or 
appointed by the council, and no former councilmember shall hold any compensated appointed 
city office or employment until one year after the expiration of the term for which they were 
he/she was elected or appointed to the council.
(b) Appointments and Removals: Neither the council nor any of its members shall in any manner 
dictate the appointment or removal of any city administrative or legal officers or employees 
whom the city manager, city attorney, or any of the city manager's subordinates are 
empowered to appoint, but the council may express its views and fully and freely discuss with 
the city manager or city attorney anything pertaining to appointment and removal of such 
officers and employees. Where council approval of a proposed appointment is required a refusal 
to approve shall not be construed as a violation of this provision.
(c) Interference with Administration: Except for the purpose of inquiries and investigations 
specifically authorized by this Charter or by law, the council or its members shall deal with city 
officers and employees who are subject to the direction and supervision of the manager or city 
attorney solely through the city manager or city attorney, respectively, and neither the council 
nor its members shall give orders to any such officer or employee, either publicly or privately.
2.07
Forfeiture of Office.
Any councilmember shall forfeit theirhis/her office who (1) fails to qualify within 10 days after 
appointment or certification of election, or (2) is absent from the city continuously for more than 30 
days without permission of a majority of the remaining councilmembers, or (3) fails to attend three 
consecutive regular meetings of the council without being excused by a majority of the remaining 
councilmembers, and the excuse entered in the minutes, or (4) fails to attend at least two-thirds of all 
regular meetings of the council during any 12-month period, or (5) is convicted of a violation of any 
express provision of this Charter or of a crime involving moral turpitude, or (6) attempts to influence the 
city manager or city attorney in the making of any appointment or in the purchase of supplies, or (7) 
lacks at any time during theirhis/her term of office any qualification for the office prescribed by this 
Charter or by law.
2.08
Vacancies in Ofﬁce.
A vacancy on the city council from whatever cause arising shall be filled by appointment by the council 
provided, that if the council fails to agree or for any other reason does not fill such vacancy within 3060 
days after the same occurs, then the city clerk shall call a special election at once to fill such vacancy 
such vacancy shall be filled by the mayor. TheAn appointee shall hold office until the next general 
election, when a successor shall be chosen by the electors for the unexpired term. If for any reason the 
seats of a majority of the council become vacant, then the city clerk shall call a special election at once 
to fill the vacancies for the unexpired terms, and the same shall be conducted substantially in the 
14 of 51

--- page 15 ---
manner provided for general municipal elections. The candidates receiving the most votes shall serve 
the longer, if any, of the unexpired terms, and in case of ties the terms shall be fixed by lot.
2.09
Meetings. Generally.
The council shall meet at the first regular council meeting in December following a general municipal 
election and canvass the returns thereof. The new members shall then be inducted into office, 
whereupon the council shall elect the mayor and deputy mayor without continuing such action to a 
future date and time absent a unanimous vote of the Council, or a fire, flood, or other disaster. The 
regular meetings of the council shall be held on the first and third Monday of each month not earlier 
than 6:30 p.m., but any regular meeting may be adjourned to a date and time certain, which adjourned 
meeting shall be a regular meeting for all purposes. The council may, in its discretion, change the date of 
any regularly scheduled Monday council meeting which would fall on a holiday or other inconvenient 
day to the nearest convenient day subsequent to the regularly scheduled Monday council meeting.
Except as otherwise provided by state law, all meetings shall be open to the public.
2.10
Place of Meetings.
All regular and adjourned regular meetings of the council shall be held in the City Hall, unless, by reason 
of fire, flood or other disaster, the City Hall cannot be used for that purpose, or the council determines 
that another location in the city would be more suitable due to the capacity or condition of the City Hall. 
(Res. No. 66 § 3, eff. 11-7-17)
2.11
Special Meetings.
Special meetings may be called and held in the manner and as provided from time to time by the 
general law of the state.
2.12
Rules and Journal.
The council shall adopt rules for conducting its proceedings, and shall provide for keeping a journal of its 
proceedings, which shall be a public record. A reasonable number of copies of such rules shall be made 
available in the office of the city clerk for inspection by members of the public, and copies shall be 
furnished by the clerk upon payment of a reasonable charge for same.
2.13
Quorum.
A majority of the council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, but a less 
number may adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of absent members in such manner 
and under such penalties as may be prescribed by ordinance.
2.14
Voting.
The affirmative vote of at least a majority of the council shall be necessary to adopt any resolutions, and 
the affirmative vote of a majority of the council shall be sufficient for adoption of ordinances except 
where a larger vote shall be required by law or other provisions of this Charter. Such votes shall be taken 
by "ayes" and "noes" and entered upon the record.
2.15
Ordinances, Generally.
15 of 51

--- page 16 ---
(a) All proposed ordinances introduced in the council shall be in printed or typewritten form. 
The enacting clause of all ordinances passed by the council shall read as follows: "The Council of 
the City of San Mateo ordains as follows:". The enacting clause of all ordinances initiated by the 
people shall read as follows: "The People of the City of San Mateo ordain as follows:".
(b) No ordinance other than an emergency ordinance shall be passed by the council on the day 
of its introduction, nor within five days thereafter, nor at any time other than a regular or 
adjourned regular meeting.
(c) A notice of the general nature of the proposed ordinance or a copy thereof, and of the time 
and place for its consideration by the council shall be given to those news media to whom notice 
of special meetings of the council would be required under the general law of the state. A 
reasonable number of copies of the proposed ordinance shall be made available for public 
inspection at reasonable times in the clerk's office and at each of the city libraries, and such 
notice shall be given by the city clerk as soon as practicable following introduction of the 
ordinance. Failure to comply with this subsection shall not invalidate the ordinance, but a willful 
violation shall constitute a misdemeanor and malfeasance in office.
(d) A proposed ordinance may be amended or modified between the time of its introduction 
and the time of its final passage, provided its general scope and original purpose are retained. 
All ordinances shall be signed by the mayor and attested by the city clerk. Ordinances shall be 
published at least once in the official city newspaper before becoming effective; in lieu of 
publishing the full text of an ordinance, the city clerk may publish a summary of the scope and 
general purpose of the ordinance in the official city newspaper and post the full text of the 
ordinance in the office of the city clerk as well as publish the full text of an ordinance on the 
official city website.
2.16
Emergency Ordinances.
Any ordinance declared by the council to be necessary as an emergency measure for preserving the 
public peace, health, safety, or welfare and containing the reasons for its urgency, may be introduced 
and passed at one and the same meeting and, if passed by a majority of the council plus one, shall 
become effective immediately. As soon as practicable after its passage an emergency ordinance shall be 
published in the official city newspaper, but the validity of the ordinance shall not depend upon such 
publication. In lieu of publishing the full text of an emergency ordinance, a summary thereof may be 
published in the same manner as other ordinances. Every such ordinance, except one for emergency 
appropriations or calling an election, shall automatically stand repealed as of the ninety-first day 
following the date on which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance if 
the emergency still exists.    
2.17
Investigations.
The council may make investigations into the affairs of the city and the conduct of any city department, 
office, or agency, and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths and affirmations, take 
testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful 
order issued in the exercise of these powers by the council shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
2.18
City Attorney. Powers and Duties.
16 of 51

--- page 17 ---
There shall be a city attorney who shall be appointed by and who shall serve at the pleasure of the 
council. The city attorney shall be an attorney at law licensed as such under the laws of this state, a 
specialist in municipal law, and must have been engaged in the practice of law for three years or have 
served in the capacity of municipal attorney or assistant municipal attorney for at least three years prior 
to appointment. The city attorney shall have the power and be required to:
(a) Serve as chief legal advisor to the council, the manager, and all city departments, offices and 
agencies.
(b) Prepare proposed ordinances and resolutions and advise the council as to their compliance 
with law and the provisions of this Charter, and draft contracts and other legal documents 
required by the council or other officials except as may be otherwise provided.
(c) Prior to the general municipal election each two years to review all city ordinances and the 
Charter, and at the first regular meeting of the council after such election make 
recommendations to the council for amendments to or repeal of ordinances and enactment of 
new ordinances in the city attorney's opinion required to improve the ordinance code, and for 
any Charter amendments the city attorney may deem advisable.
(d) Attend all meetings of the council unless excused by the council or the mayor.
(e) Perform any other duties prescribed by law, this Charter, or ordinance, or as the council may 
from time to time require not inconsistent with law or this Charter.
The city council may authorize the city attorney to hire additional attorneys and personnel for the city 
attorney's legal staff. Except as may otherwise be provided in this Charter or in ordinances relating to 
personnel approved by vote of the people, the city attorney's staff shall be appointed by and serve at 
the pleasure of the city attorney.
The city attorney shall receive such compensation for services as the council shall determine. When the 
city attorney is an in-house employee of the city, the city council may remove the city attorney at any 
time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the council plus one.
2.19
Control of Legal Proceedings.
Acting through the city attorney, the city council shall have control of all legal business and may employ 
additional attorneys to take charge of any litigation or matter or to assist the city attorney therein.
ARTICLE III CITY MANAGER
3.01
Appointment. Qualiﬁcations. Compensation.
There shall be a city manager who shall be appointed by and who shall serve at the pleasure of the city 
council. The city manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of the city manager's executive and 
administrative qualifications. The city manager shall receive such compensation for services as the 
council shall determine.
3.02
Removal.
The council may remove the city manager from office in accordance with the following procedures:
17 of 51

--- page 18 ---
(a) The council shall adopt by affirmative vote of a majority of the council plus one a preliminary 
resolution which must state the reasons for removal and may suspend the city manager from 
duty for a period not to exceed forty-five days. A copy of the resolution shall be delivered 
promptly to the city manager.
(b) Within five days after a copy of the resolution is delivered to the city manager, they he may 
file with the council a written request for a public hearing. This hearing shall be held at a council 
meeting not earlier than fifteen days nor later than thirty days after the request is filed. The city 
manager may file with the council a written reply not later than five days before the hearing.
(c) The council may adopt a final resolution of removal, which may be made effective 
immediately, by affirmative vote of a majority of the council plus one at any time after five days 
from the date when a copy of the preliminary resolution was delivered to the city manager, if 
the city managerhe has not requested a public hearing, or at any time after the public hearing if 
he the city manager has requested one.
(d) The city manager shall continue to receive their his salary until the effective date of a final 
resolution of removal. The action of the council in suspending or removing the manager shall be 
final.
(e) During the period of suspension and after the effective date of a final resolution of removal 
the powers of the city manager shall be exercised by an acting city manager until a new city 
manager is appointed and qualifies.
303
Acting City Manager.
By letter filed with the city clerk, the city manager shall designate a qualified city administrative officer 
to exercise the powers and perform the duties of the city manager during a temporary absence or 
disability. During such absence or disability, the council may revoke such designation at any time and 
appoint another officer of the city to serve until the city manager shall return.
3.04
Powers and Duties of the City Manager.
The city manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the city. The city manager shall be 
responsible to the council for the administration of all city affairs placed in theirhis/her charge by or 
under this Charter. The city manager shall have the following powers and duties:
(a) To direct and supervise the administration of all departments, offices and agencies of the 
city, except as otherwise provided by this Charter or by law.
(b) To attend all council meetings, unless excused by the council or the mayor, and shall have 
the right to take part in discussion but may not vote.
(c) To see that all laws, provisions of this Charter and acts of the council, subject to enforcement 
by the city manager him/her or by officers subject to the city manager’s his/her direction and 
supervision, are faithfully executed. To prepare and submit the annual budget and capital 
program to the council.
(d) To submit to the council and make available to the public a report on the finances and 
administrative activities of the city as of the end of each fiscal year.
18 of 51

--- page 19 ---
(e) To make such other reports as the council may require concerning the operations of city 
departments, offices and agencies subject to the city manager’shis/her direction and 
supervision.
(f) To keep the council fully advised as to the financial condition and future needs of the city and 
make such recommendations to the council concerning the affairs of the city as he/shethe city 
manager deems desirable.
(g) To appoint such advisory boards as the city manager he/she may deem desirable to advise 
and assist the city managerhim in theirhis/her work, provided such boards shall not receive any 
compensation.
(h) At any time in the city manager’s his/her discretion, and with or without notice, examine or 
cause to be examined the conduct of any administrative officer or employee of the city.
(i) To perform such other duties as are specified in this Charter or may be required by the 
council.
ARTICLE IV GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
4.01
Officers and Employees. Generally.
In addition to members of the city council, the mayor, city manager, and city attorney, the officers and 
employees of the City of San Mateo shall consist of those provided for in this Charter, and such other 
officers and employees as the council may provide by ordinance or resolution or as may be required by 
law from time to time.
4.02
Administrative Departments. Generally.
The city council may provide by ordinance for the organization, conduct, creation, and operation of the 
departments of the city, and for their consolidation, alteration, or abolition. When the positions are not 
incompatible, the city council may combine in one person the powers and duties of two or more 
officers. There shall be a separate Police Department and Free Public Library, each of which shall remain 
as a separate department with its own department head, provided, however, that the city council may 
enter into agreements with other agencies for the joint provision of police or library services.
The city council may assign additional functions or duties to offices, departments or agencies. No office 
provided by this Charter to be filled by appointment by the city manager may be consolidated with an 
office to be filled by appointment by the city council.
Subject to the provisions of this Charter, the city council shall provide for the number, titles, 
qualifications, powers, duties, compensation, benefits, and other conditions of employment of all 
officers and employees. Salaries shall be fixed by resolution. (Res. No. 75 § 2, eff. 12-5-16)
4.03
New Department.
Each department created by the city council shall be headed by an officer as department head who shall 
be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the city manager.
4.04
City Manager As Ex Officio Department Head.
19 of 51

--- page 20 ---
Except as inconsistent with law or this Charter, with the consent of the city council the city manager may 
serve as the head of one or more of the administrative departments or may appoint one person as the 
head of two or more of them.
4.05
General Duties of Officers.
All officers who serve at the pleasure of the city manager shall have such duties as may be required of 
them by the city manager in addition to duties prescribed by law, by ordinance, or by this Charter.
4.06
Administrative Employees. Appointment and Removal.
Except as may otherwise be provided in this Charter or in ordinances relating to personnel approved by 
vote of the people, all administrative officers and employees shall be appointed by and serve at the 
pleasure of the city manager. With the consent of the city council, the city manager may authorize any 
administrative officer to exercise these powers with respect to subordinates in that officer's 
department.
4.07
Administering Oaths.
Each department head and deputies shall have the power to administer oaths and affirmations in 
connection with any official business pertaining to the department head's department.
4.08
Delivery of Properties to Successors.
All officers, boards, and commissions and members thereof shall surrender and deliver to their 
successors all official papers, books, documents, records, archives and other properties pertaining to 
their respective offices or departments in their possession or under their control. 
4.09
City Clerk. Powers and Duties.
There shall be a city clerk, who shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the city manager. The 
city clerk He/she shall be clerk of the council and keep an accurate record of all ordinances, resolutions 
and motions, shall have custody of the official seal and all official records committed to their his/her 
care, make affidavits and administer oaths without charge in matters affecting the business of the city, 
conduct elections, and shall perform the duties of a city clerk as provided by the general law of the state 
except as inconsistent with this Charter, and such other duties required by this Charter.
4.10
Treasurer/Fiscal Director. Powers and Duties.
There shall be a city treasurer/fiscal director who shall be appointed by the city manager, subject to 
approval by the city council, and who shall serve at the pleasure of the city manager as the head of the 
finance department. The treasurer/fiscal director shall have the power and shall be required to receive 
and safely keep all money and securities belonging to the city, and pay out the same only on written 
authority of the city manager or other officer or officers designated by the city manager or as otherwise 
authorized by law, this Charter or ordinances adopted pursuant thereto, and not otherwise. The 
treasurer/fiscal director He/she shall also serve as ex officio tax and license collector for the city with the 
duties thereof as provided by ordinance or the general law of the state, unless the council by ordinance 
provides otherwise. The council may contract for the performance of the functions and duties of the 
treasurer/fiscal director.
20 of 51

--- page 21 ---
Responsibility for the accounting system, accounts and controls, receipts and expenditures, and deposit 
and investment may be delegated by the city manager to the fiscal director. The fiscal director shall also 
have the power and be required to perform such other duties as are consistent with this Charter.
4.11
Librarian. Powers and Duties.
There shall be a librarian who shall be appointed by the city manager with the approval of the library 
board of trustees. The librarian shall serve at the pleasure of the manager, subject, however, to the 
power of the library board of trustees by the affirmative vote of a majority plus one to disapprove the 
suspension or removal of the librarian. The librarian shall be the department head, and subject to other 
provisions of this Charter, shall have charge of administration of the city libraries.
4.12
Human Resources Director. Powers and Duties.
There shall be a human resources director who shall be appointed by and who shall serve at the 
pleasure of the city manager. The human resources director shall have the responsibility of attending all 
meetings of any board or commission established to advise or deal with personnel matters, and shall 
administer laws, rules and ordinances affecting employees in the classified service not specifically 
reserved to the city manager or other officer or board or commission, by law, ordinance or this Charter, 
and shall establish and keep records of all officials and employees in the classified service. The human 
resources director shall have had at least three years progressively responsible experience in human 
resources administration and such other qualifications as may be required by ordinance. (Res. No. 66 § 
3, eff. 11-7-17)
4.13
Oath of Office.
Every officer, whether appointed or elected, shall take the constitutional oath of office and subscribe 
thereto before entering upon the performance of the officer’s his/her official duties.
ARTICLE V FISCAL ADMINISTRATION
5.01
Fiscal Year.
Unless changed by ordinance adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the council plus one, the 
fiscal year shall begin on the first day of July and shall end on the last day of June of the following year.
5.02
Budget.
Each department of the city shall provide, in the form and at the time directed by the city manager, all 
information required by the city manager to develop a budget, including capital accounts, conforming to 
modern budget practices and procedures as well as specific information which may be prescribed by the 
council. At least 30 days before the commencement of a fiscal year, the city manager shall prepare and 
present to the council in such form and manner as it may prescribe budget recommendations for the 
next succeeding fiscal year. Following a public budget hearing, the council shall adopt by resolution a 
budget of proposed expenditures and appropriations necessary therefor for the ensuing year, failing 
which the appropriations and budget for the fiscal year shall be deemed effective in the new fiscal year 
until the new budget and appropriation measures are adopted.
5.03
Budget Limitation.
21 of 51

--- page 22 ---
The total proposed budget requirements shall not exceed total available resources. (Res. No. 66 § 3, eff. 
11-7-17)
5.04
Unexpended and Unobligated Funds.
Unexpended and unobligated funds shall be held in reserve for contingencies or other purposes as 
determined by council. Funds held in reserve may be appropriated by resolution of the council, 
including, but not limited to, the annual budget resolution. (Res. No. 66 § 3, eff. 11-7-17)
5.05
Limitation on Reserves for Contingencies.
The council shall establish reserves which in its discretion are proper.
5.06
Budget Notices to Public.
On the first Monday and first Thursday in the last month of each fiscal year, the city manager shall cause 
to be published in the official city newspaper notice of the time for holding a public hearing on the 
budget. Copies of the proposed budget shall be made available for inspection by the public in the office 
of the city clerk at least 10 days prior to said hearing, and copies of the proposed budget shall be 
furnished at a reasonable charge to persons requesting same upon payment therefor.
5.07
Capital Program.
(a) The city manager shall annually prepare and submit to the council a five-year capital program 
at the same time budget recommendations for the next succeeding fiscal year are submitted to 
the council by the city manager.
(b) The capital program shall include:
(1) A clear, general summary of its contents.
(2) A list of all capital improvements which are proposed to be undertaken during the 
five fiscal years next ensuing, with appropriate supporting information as to the 
necessity for such improvements.
(3) Cost estimates, method of financing, and time schedules for each such improvement.
(4) The estimated annual cost of operating and maintaining facilities to be constructed 
or acquired.
(c) The above information may be revised and extended each year with regard to capital 
improvements still pending or in process of construction or acquisition.
5.08
Capital Improvement Funds.
The council shall create a capital improvement fund with such capital improvement accounts as may be 
required to finance the improvements specified in the creation of such accounts, and each such account 
shall remain inviolate except for the purposes for which it was created, whether general or specific 
unless the use of any such account for some other capital improvement purpose is authorized by the 
affirmative vote of at least a majority of the council plus one. When the purpose of any capital 
improvement account has been accomplished, the council may transfer any unexpended or 
22 of 51

--- page 23 ---
unencumbered surplus remaining in such account to any other general or specific capital improvement 
account.
5.09
Council Action on Capital Program.
On or before the last day of the first month of a current fiscal year the council, after due notice and 
public hearing, shall by resolution, adopt the capital program, with or without amendment thereto.
5.10
Other Funds.
The council shall create such other special funds as are required for proper accounting and fiscal 
management, or required as a condition of receiving funds from any other government or to fulfill any 
bonded or other contractual obligation of the city.
5.11
Levy of Property Tax. Procedure for Assessment and Collection.
To the extent that the Constitution does not limit the setting of the ad valorem property tax rate, the 
city council shall: Not later than the date set by state law for this purpose, the council shall by resolution 
fix the rate of property tax to be levied and levy the tax upon all taxable property in the city. Such rate 
shall be adequate to meet all obligations of the city for the fiscal year, taking into account estimated 
revenue from all other sources. Should the council fail to fix the rate and levy taxes within the time 
prescribed, the rate for the next preceding fiscal year shall thereupon be automatically effective, and a 
tax at such rate shall be levied upon all taxable property in the city for the current fiscal year. The 
procedure for the assessment and collection of taxes upon property, taxable for municipal purposes, 
shall be prescribed by ordinance of the city council.
5.12
Dollar Limit.
Repealed. (Res. No. 66 § 2, eff. 11-7-17)
5.13
Supplemental, Emergency, and Lapsed Appropriations.
(a) Supplemental Appropriations: If during the fiscal year there are funds available for 
appropriation, the council by resolution may make supplemental appropriations. At any time 
during the fiscal year, the city manager may transfer part or all of any unencumbered 
appropriation balance among programs within a department and, upon written request of the 
city manager, the council may by resolution transfer part or all of any unencumbered 
appropriation balance from one department to another; provided that no appropriation for debt 
service may be reduced or transferred, and no appropriation may be reduced below any amount 
required by law to be appropriated or by more than the amount of the unencumbered balance 
thereof.
(b) Lapsed Appropriations: Every appropriation, except an appropriation for a capital 
expenditure, grant funds, or other funds not within the budgeting authority of the city council, 
shall lapse at the close of the fiscal year to the extent that it has not been expended or 
encumbered. (Res. No. 66 § 3, eff. 11-7-17)
5.14
Accounting System.
23 of 51

--- page 24 ---
The city manager shall establish and maintain a system of financial procedures, accounts, and controls 
for the city government and each of its departments, which shall conform to generally accepted 
principles of accounting which shall be adequate to account for all money on hand and for all income 
and expenditures in such detail as will provide complete and informative data concerning the financial 
affairs of the city and in such manner as the council may prescribe and as will be readily susceptible to 
audit and review.
5.15
Receipts and Expenditures.
All money received by the city shall be deposited in the city treasury and in institutions and investments 
authorized for cities by law, and no money shall be disbursed without the approval of the city manager 
or of another officer duly authorized by the city managerhim/her. No expenditure of city funds shall be 
made except for the purposes and in the manner specified by an appropriation of the council; nor shall 
any disbursement be made unless obligations are properly supported by accounting evidence and 
sufficient funds are available. The city manager or other officer authorized by the city managerhim/her 
to make disbursements shall be represented by the city attorney in all legal matters in connection 
therewith. (Res. No. 66 § 3, eff. 11-7-17)
5.16
Deposit and Investment.
The city manager shall arrange for the deposit in the city treasury and in institutions and investments 
authorized for cities by law of all funds collected by the city, according to a schedule prescribed by 
him/her. After taking into account the amounts necessary to meet the current and pending 
requirements of the city, the city manager may arrange for the term deposit in financial institutions 
authorized by law and investment in securities authorized by law of any balances available for such 
purpose and the yield therefrom shall be credited as revenue to the general fund unless otherwise 
provided by law or directed by the council.
5.17
Cash Pool Operations. Check System.
The council may by ordinance provide for financing of municipal obligations by cash pool operations, 
and for utilization of a check system, or other system equivalent or comparable thereto, including credit 
and debit cards, rather than the warrant system. Except for those funds restricted by bond indentures, 
state or federal law, other sections of this Charter or specific conditions of the legislation creating them, 
temporary transfers between funds are permitted.
The council shall from time to time by ordinance provide for methods for issuance of checks, drafts 
and/or other orders for payment of money in the name of the city, and for authorized signatures to 
negotiable instruments drawn in the name of the city, and may authorize facsimile as well as actual 
signatures to be valid and binding on the city, and shall prescribe such system as it shall deem advisable 
to protect against unauthorized issuance of checks, drafts or other orders for payment of money in the 
name of the city.
5.18
Payment of Salaries.
All demands for salaries which are fixed by law, resolution, or this Charter, shall be allowed and paid 
regularly without the necessity of any specific approval for each payment.
5.19
Surplus Bond Money.
24 of 51

--- page 25 ---
All money derived from the sale of bonds, including premiums and accrued interest, shall be applied 
only to the purposes for which the bonds were issued. After such purposes have been fully completed 
and paid for, any remaining surplus shall be transferred to the fund established for meeting the interest 
and redemption of such bonds.
5.20
Purchases and Contracts.
The city manager or an officer authorized by the city managerhim/her shall purchase or contract for 
equipment, materials, supplies, and public works required by the city in the manner prescribed by 
ordinance.
5.21
Bids and Awards.
The council shall establish by ordinance the conditions and procedures for any purchase or contract, and 
establish advertising and bidding requirements, and may provide that all bids may be rejected. The 
ordinance may provide that under specified conditions which the awarding authority must find and 
determine to exist in each applicable instance, advertising and bidding may be dispensed with, except 
the ordinance may provide that where the expenditure required for a purchase or contract does not 
exceed a sum fixed by the ordinance advertising and bidding shall be dispensed with unless the council 
shall for a particular purchase or contract order advertising and bidding.
5.22
Official Bonds.
The council shall determine which officers and employees shall give bonds for the faithful performance 
of their official duties, and fix the amount of said bonds and provide for payment of the premium of 
such bonds by the city. Such officers and employees, before entering upon their official duties, shall 
execute a bond to the city in the penal sum required, which bond shall include any other offices of which 
they may be ex officio incumbent. Said bonds shall be approved by the council and filed with the city 
clerk.
5.23
Revenue Bonds.
The council may issue revenue bonds for any lawful purpose in such manner and upon such terms and 
conditions as it may fix and establish by the provisions of a procedural ordinance.
5.24
Public Improvements and Street Work.
All public improvements, including improving, widening or opening of streets or highways, may be done 
under and in pursuance of the general law of the state or procedural ordinances adopted by the council 
or the electors, and the whole or any portion of the cost thereof paid by the city or assessed on the 
property benefitted; provided that, except in a case of actual emergency the nature and existence of 
which is found and determined by resolution adopted by unanimous vote of the council, no public 
improvements to be financed by a bonded indebtedness of a city-wide district to be created under 
ordinances heretofore or hereafter enacted shall be made unless the indebtedness is authorized by vote 
of the people as required under state law for issuance of general obligation municipal bonds.
5.25
Franchises.
Every franchise, contract, or privilege for a public utility to construct, maintain, or operate any railroad 
or other means of transportation in or over any street or highway, or to lay pipes or conduits, or erect 
25 of 51

--- page 26 ---
poles or wires or other structures in or across any street or highway for the transmission of gas, 
electricity, or other commodity or utility, or for the use of public property or places now or hereafter 
belonging to the city, shall be granted by the city council pursuant to ordinance or the general laws of 
the State upon such terms and conditions as the city council deems proper.
No franchise, privilege, or contract shall be construed to impair or affect the right of the city to acquire 
the property of the grantee either by purchase or through the exercise of the right of eminent domain.
5.26
Auditing.
The council shall employ, by majority vote, a certified public accountant, or a firm of certified public 
accountants as independent auditor to conduct an annual audit and examination of the fiscal 
administration of the city. Copies of the annual audit and report shall, within a reasonable time after 
receipt thereof by the council, be furnished at a reasonable charge to persons requesting same upon 
payment therefor.
Unless the council shall by ordinance make other provision for the performance of the following 
functions, the independent auditor shall by contract also be required:
(a) To make such periodic examinations of the systems and procedures of the city for the 
receipt, disbursement, and accounting for funds of all types as are necessary to satisfy the 
auditor that such systems and procedures are efficient and give adequate protection for 
safeguarding city assets, protect against improper disbursements and assure reasonable 
protection against irregularity or defalcation.
(b) To make such sample tests, observations, inquiries and independent substantiations as are 
necessary to satisfy the auditor, within reason, that there is proper compliance with prescribed 
systems and procedures or in the operation thereof.
(c) To report the results thereof periodically to the city manager and the council, and report to 
the council instances of non-compliance with prescribed or recommended fiscal or accounting 
procedures where recommendations for compliance have not been implemented after 
reasonable time and opportunity.
The council may direct the city manager to report on the action taken or to be taken to remedy 
deficiencies reported by the auditor.
ARTICLE VI BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
6.01
Library Board of Trustees. Powers and Duties.
There shall be a library board of trustees consisting of five members which shall have the power and 
duty to:
(a) Exercise the sole responsibility for establishment from time to time of library department 
policy in selection of books, reading, visual, auditory and like material to be acquired or 
purchased and the classification thereof, subject, however, to limitations of the budget for such 
purposes.
26 of 51

--- page 27 ---
(b) Make and enforce such bylaws, rules and regulations as may be necessary or appropriate in 
the maintenance and operation of public libraries free to the permanent inhabitants and non- 
resident taxpayers of the city, including fines, penalties, and provision for collection of 
obligations to the library.
(c) Accept in the name of the city, money, personal property, or real property donated to the 
city for library purposes, subject to approval of the council, except that unless the council by 
ordinance provides otherwise, the board shall have the power to accept gifts other than real 
property in an amount or value of Five Hundred Dollars or less for library purposes or use 
without specific consent of the council where no obligation attaches to the city other than use 
for benefit of the libraries, and to hold, convert to cash, invest in insured savings, or expend 
same for the use and benefit of the libraries.
Funds received by way of gift or bequest for the benefit of the city libraries shall not be subject 
to appropriation for other purposes, nor other than as provided by the donors except as may be 
authorized by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(d) Hold in trust and provide for the proper application and use to the library of any gift, devise, 
or bequest in accordance with the terms and conditions thereof where payment into the city 
treasury is inconsistent with such terms and conditions, provided the council shall first have 
approved acceptance of such terms and conditions.
(e) Approve or disapprove the appointment of the librarian, and disapprove of the suspension or 
removal of the librarian by the affirmative vote of a majority plus one of the board.
(f) Sell or otherwise dispose of surplus books and other excess materials peculiar to a public 
library under such procedures and upon such conditions as the council shall by ordinance 
prescribe.
(g) Establish conditions under which non-residents may exercise library privileges.
(h) Serve in an advisory capacity to the librarian, city manager and council with respect to the 
establishment, maintenance, operation and management of the city libraries, and have and 
exercise such other powers, duties and responsibilities with respect to the libraries as may be 
prescribed by ordinance not inconsistent with law or this Charter.
The council may by ordinance from time to time prescribe appropriate procedures for the purchase of 
books and other materials peculiar to the libraries.
6.02
Library Fund.
At such times that the council sets the tax rate, the council shall provide for maintaining the libraries and 
the operation thereof, and apportion the revenue thus provided to a fund designated in the budget as 
the library fund. Such tax shall be in addition to other taxes permitted in the municipality, but shall not 
exceed Thirty Cents per One Hundred Dollars assessed valuation. Payments from the library fund shall 
be made for all claims properly chargeable against the same.
6.03
Library Board of Trustees. Appointment, Removal, Terms.
27 of 51

--- page 28 ---
Members of the library board of trustees shall be appointed in the same manner and for the same 
terms, and subject to the same limitations, as in this Charter provided for city commissions in general, 
except that a member of the library board of trustees shall be subject to removal from office by action 
of the council only after being furnished on demand a written statement of the cause and being 
afforded an opportunity for a public hearing.
The incumbent members of the library board of trustees at the time this Charter takes effect, and any 
successor by appointment to fill any vacancy then existing, shall constitute the first library board of 
trustees under this Charter.
6.04
Planning Commission. Other Boards and Commissions.
In addition to the library board of trustees there shall be a planning commission which shall have the 
powers and duties from time to time provided by law or by ordinance.
There shall also be such other boards and commissions as may from time to time be established by 
ordinance adopted by the council or approved by the people. Except as may otherwise be provided by 
this Charter, or ordinance of the council or ordinance approved by the people, all such other boards and 
commissions now or hereafter established shall be for advisory purposes only to the council, the city 
manager, or to departments within the city. A board or commission shall be considered to be advisory 
even if it is authorized to take final action subject to appeal to the city council.
6.05
Composition. Qualiﬁcations. Terms and Limits of Terms.
The members of all boards and commissions created by ordinance or by this Charter shall be appointed 
by the council, and shall at the time of appointment and while serving possess the same qualifications as 
required by this Charter for election or appointment to the council.
The number of members of such a board or commission shall not exceed the authorized number of 
members of the city council unless the ordinance establishing such additional number be approved by 
vote of the people or by unanimous vote of the council.
The members of such boards and commissions shall be appointed for terms of four years, except that if 
the ordinance provides, initial terms may be pared by lot as necessary so that each year one or more 
terms will expire.
The terms of office of existing boards or commissions having regular terms of more or less than four 
years shall be pared or extended as to incumbents in such manner as the city council shall determine so 
as to establish four-year terms in conformity with this section within two years after this Charter goes 
into effect.
No member of a board or commission shall be eligible for reappointment to the same board or 
commission after serving two consecutive four-year terms provided that no partial term of office shall 
be counted as any portion of the consecutive terms.
6.06
Payment of Expenses. Prohibition of Compensation.
The members of such boards and commissions shall receive no compensation for their services as such, 
but may receive reimbursement for their actual and necessary expenses authorized by the city council 
28 of 51

--- page 29 ---
and incurred in performance of their duties of office upon presentation of verified claims therefor on 
uniform forms to be prescribed by resolution of the city council.
6.07
Appropriations for Boards and Commissions. 
The city council shall include in its annual budget such appropriations of funds as in its opinion shall be 
sufficient for the efficient and proper functioning of such boards and commissions.
6.08
Removal from Office. Vacancies.
Members of such boards and commissions shall serve at the pleasure of the city council, and any 
member may be removed by the vote of a majority of the council plus one. If a member of a board or 
commission absents himself themselves from three consecutive meetings unless by permission of the 
board or commission expressed in its minutes, or is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude, or 
loses the qualifications required for appointment in the first instance, theirhis office shall automatically 
become vacant and shall be so declared by the city council.
Any vacancies shall be filled by appointment by the city council for the remainder of the unexpired term.
6.09
Special Committees. Limitations.
The city council may from time to time establish citizens or taxpayers' committees for specific advisory 
purposes only, and for periods not exceeding two years. Such a committee may be renewed or extended 
by action of the council anew for a period not exceeding the original term of the committee. The city 
council may include in its annual budget, or in interim appropriations, such funds as in its opinion shall 
be sufficient to accomplish the purpose of such committees.
6.10
Ex Officio Members.
The city manager and the city attorney, or their representatives, and a representative from the city 
council, shall be ex officio members of all boards, commissions, and committees. The council may in the 
ordinance establishing any advisory board, commission, or committee provide for additional ex officio 
members who shall be appointed by the council for such terms as may be prescribed but who need not 
possess the qualifications required of regular members. Ex officio members shall have the same rights as 
official members including the right to attend meetings and participate in discussions, but shall not be 
entitled to vote.
6.11
Power of Subpoena. Limitations.
No board, commission, or committee shall have the power of subpoena to compel attendance of 
witnesses, to examine them under oath, to compel production of evidence before it and to administer 
oaths and affirmations, unless such power shall be granted by ordinance approved by a majority of the 
city council plus one. The power of subpoena being so granted, the same may be exercised by issuance 
of subpoena by the city clerk upon application in writing by the city attorney, by the chairperson of the 
board, commission, or committee, or by a majority of the board, commission, or committee. 
Disobedience of a lawful order issued in exercise of such powers shall be a misdemeanor.
6.12
Declaration of Policy. Citizen Participation.
29 of 51

--- page 30 ---
It is and shall be the policy of the City of San Mateo to foster a climate of human relations favorable to 
the full acceptance and participation of all citizens in the community in the economic, educational, 
political and cultural aspects of the community and opportunity to share in the benefits thereof without 
regard to race, religion, gender, national origin, or other factors which are prohibited from 
discrimination in appointments to local government boards, commissions, and committees by federal or 
state law.
To that end, and to secure for the city the benefit of the talents, skills and counsel of public-spirited and 
dedicated citizens in all areas of local government, it is the policy of the city that advisory boards, 
commissions and committees be established from time to time as the council deems appropriate in 
furtherance of community progress and harmony, and the solution of community problems.
ARTICLE VII ELECTIONS
7.01
General Municipal Elections.
General municipal elections shall be held in the city on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in 
November of each even-numbered year, in the manner provided by state law governing elections in 
general law cities; provided, that in the event any other election shall be held in the city in the month of 
November of the same year, the council may consolidate the general municipal election with such other 
election whenever practicable, and shall in any event call and schedule the general municipal election 
for the same date as any such other election. (Res. No. 65 § 3, eff. 11-7-17)
7.02
Special Municipal Elections.
Special municipal elections may be called and held in accordance with and in the manner provided by 
state law governing elections in general law cities.
7.03
Initiative, Referendum and Recall.
The people of the city reserve to themselves the powers of initiative, referendum, and the recall of 
elected officials, to be exercised in accordance with and in the manner provided by state law governing 
general law cities.
7.04
Reserved. Veriﬁed Statement of Candidates.
(a) No earlier than the first day, and no later than the last day, specified or provided under state 
law for the filing of nomination papers by any candidate for elective municipal office in general 
law cities, as such law shall be in effect on the first day of January next preceding the municipal 
election, each candidate for an elective office shall file with the city clerk a statement containing 
the following information in the order herein set forth:
(1) His/her name;
(2) The office for which he/she is a candidate;
(3) His/her present residence and occupation;
(4) The various kinds of business or employment he/she has been engaged in during the 
past five years and where, also the positions of importance and trust which he/she may 
have held in connection therewith;
30 of 51

--- page 31 ---
(5) The civic, improvement or other organizations which he/she has been a member of 
within the past five years and the positions of honor or trust, which he/she may have 
held therein;
(6) The public offices he/she ever held, if any, as principal, deputy or employee;
(7) The experience, training or education he/she has received which, in his/her opinion, 
would qualify him to fill the office for which he/she is a candidate;
(8) The length of time he/she has been a resident in the city;
(9) The principal public improvements or betterments which he/she would urge the 
accomplishment of if elected;
(10) The names of not more than 15 residents who know something of his/her character 
and abilities;
(11) Any other information which, in his/her opinion, would enable the electors to 
determine his/her qualifications for said office.
(b) Said statement shall be verified, and be accompanied by a photograph of the candidate 
taken within the past two years.
(c) The city clerk shall cause the publication of the statements of each candidate so filed, with 
the candidate's photo engraving annexed thereto, in the official city newspaper by two 
insertions therein prior to the day of election. No response to any one of the various 
requirements above- mentioned shall exceed 100 words in length.
(d) The failure to submit the statement or other information shall not disqualify the candidate.
ARTICLE VIII PARKS
8.01
Dedication for Park Purposes.
Lands owned by the City which are more than four acres in size and which are dedicated by ordinance of 
the City Council for park, playground, recreation, or open space purposes shall not thereafter be sold or 
otherwise disposed of, nor converted to different purposes, except pursuant to majority vote of the 
electorate. The City Council may lease such dedicated lands for park, playground, recreation, or open 
space purposes. "Majority vote of the electorate" shall mean majority of the persons voting on the 
measure.
8.02
Conveyance of Minor Portion.
Without an election, the City Council may convey a minor portion of such dedicated lands after (a) 
notice and public hearing, (b) determination that the conveyance is in the public interest, and (c) 
adoption of a resolution authorizing the conveyance.
ARTICLE IX MISCELLANEOUS
9.01
Personal Financial Interest.
31 of 51

--- page 32 ---
City officers and employees shall comply with the general law regarding disclosure of and 
disqualification on account of personal financial interests.
9.02
Prohibitions.
(a) Activities Prohibited:
(1) No person shall be appointed to or removed from, or in any way favored or 
discriminated against with respect to any city position or appointive city administrative 
office on account of any matter that constitutes employment discrimination in state or 
federal law.
(2) No person shall willfully make any false statement, certificate, mark, rating or report 
in regard to any test, certification, or appointment under the personnel provisions of 
this Charter, or ordinances relating to personnel, or rules and regulations made 
thereunder, or in any manner commit or attempt to commit any fraud preventing the 
impartial execution of such provisions, rules and regulations.
(3) No person who seeks appointment or promotion with respect to any city appointive 
position or appointive city office shall directly or indirectly give, render or pay any 
money, service or other valuable thing to any person for or in connection with the 
person’s his/her test, appointment, proposed appointment, promotion or proposed 
promotion.
(4) No city officer or employee shall grant special consideration, treatment, advantages, 
or use of city-owned property to himself/herself or any citizen beyond that which is 
available to every other citizen, nor shall any city officer or employee charge or collect 
any fee, commission or percentage by way of compensation to himself/herself.
(b) Penalties: Any person who alone or with others willfully violates any of the foregoing 
provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person convicted under this 
section shall be ineligible for a period of five years thereafter to hold any office or position with 
the city, and, if an officer or employee of the city, shall immediately forfeit theirhis office or 
position.
(c) The council may by ordinance define, prohibit, and provide penalties for substantial conflicts 
of personal interest of city officers and employees.
9.03
Nepotism.
The city council shall not appoint to a salaried position under the city government, or to any board or 
commission, any person who is a relative by blood or marriage within the third degree of any one or 
more of the members of such city council, nor shall any department head or other officer having 
appointive power appoint any relative of theirshis/her or of one or more of the members of such city 
council within such degree to any such position.
9.04
Dual Offices.
Any elective officer of the city who shall accept or retain any other incompatible elective public office 
shall be deemed thereby to have vacated theirhis/her office under the city government.
32 of 51

--- page 33 ---
9.05
Violations of Charter and Ordinances.
The violation of any express provision of this Charter shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor as well as 
any violation specifically declared herein to be a misdemeanor. Such violations shall be punishable by 
fine not exceeding One Thousand Dollars or by imprisonment for not exceeding six months, or by both 
such fine and imprisonment. The violation of an ordinance shall be punishable as in the ordinance. The 
city council by ordinance may establish civil penalty provisions.
9.06
Municipal Affairs.
The city may adopt and enforce all ordinances, resolutions, and regulations in respect to municipal 
affairs, subject only to restrictions and limitations provided in this Charter and the Constitution of the 
State of California. It shall also have the power to exercise any and all rights, powers, and privileges, 
including proprietary powers, heretofore or hereafter established, granted, or prescribed by any law of 
the State, by this Charter, or by any other lawful authority, or which a municipal corporation might or 
could exercise under the Constitution of the State of California, including all powers not in conflict with 
the provisions of this Charter now or hereafter granted to cities organized under the general law of the 
State of California. The enumeration in this Charter of any power shall not be held to be exclusive of or a 
limitation upon this general grant of power. To the extent permissible by law, general laws of the State, 
even in the absence of council action, shall not be of any force or effect insofar as they attempt to 
regulate municipal affairs.
9.07
Official City Newspaper.
The council periodically shall advertise for or call for the submission of sealed proposals or bids from all 
newspapers adjudicated to be newspapers of general circulation within the city, or if none, then from 
newspapers adjudicated to be newspapers of general circulation with in the County of San Mateo, for 
the publication of all ordinances and other legal notices required to be published.
The council may designate the requirements for award of contract. The contract therefor shall be 
awarded to the lowest responsible bidder, provided the rates for such publication shall not exceed the 
customary rate charged for publishing legal notices of a private character. The newspaper to whom such 
contract is awarded shall be known and designated as the official city newspaper.
In the event no such newspaper will contract with the city as herein provided, or if the official city 
newspaper is not published, then notice of the matters required to be published in the official city 
newspaper shall be given by posting copies thereof at three or more public places in the city as 
designated by the council, and such posting shall be equivalent to legal publication.
9.08
Deﬁnitions.
Unless the provision or the context requires otherwise, as used in this Charter: "shall" is mandatory and 
"may" is permissive; "law", "state law", "general law", and similar terms, mean the law as it now exists 
or may hereafter be enacted applicable to general law cities in this state; "state" means the State of 
California; "county" means the County of San Mateo; "city" means the City of San Mateo; nouns or 
pronouns includes the masculine, feminine, and the neuter, and the singular includes the plural.
9.09
Severability.
33 of 51

--- page 34 ---
If any section or subsection of this Charter, or the application thereof, is held invalid, that invalidity shall 
not affect the validity and enforceability of any other section or subsection and this Charter shall 
continue in full force and effect as if the invalid section or subsection were not a part of the Charter.
ARTICLE X TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
10.01
Continuing Officers and Employees.
Until the election or appointment and induction into office of the officers and employees in this Charter 
provided for, the present officers and employees shall without interruption, continue to perform the 
duties of their respective offices and employments, and until otherwise provided by ordinance or 
resolution adopted pursuant to this Charter.
10.02
Continuing Ordinances in Force.
All lawful ordinances, resolutions, and regulations in force at the time this Charter takes effect, and not 
inconsistent with its provisions, are hereby continued in force so far as not inconsistent until the same 
shall have been duly amended, repealed, or superseded. To the extent the same are inconsistent or 
interfere with the effective operation of this Charter or of ordinances or resolutions adopted pursuant 
thereto they are repealed as of the effective date of this Charter.
10.03
Continuing Contracts in Force.
All vested rights of the city shall continue and shall not in any manner be affected by the adoption of this 
Charter; nor shall any right, liability, pending suit or prosecution, either in behalf of or against the city, 
be affected by the adoption of this Charter. All contracts entered into by the city prior to the taking 
effect of this Charter shall continue in full force and effect. All public work begun prior to the taking 
effect of this Charter shall be continued and perfected hereunder.
10.04
When Charter Effective. Temporary Ordinances.
This Charter shall go into effect for all purposes at the first regular meeting of the city council following 
approval of this Charter by the legislature. At that meeting or at any meeting held within sixty days 
thereafter the council may adopt temporary ordinances, plainly labeled as such, to deal with cases of 
urgent need for prompt action in connection with transition of government in which delay incident to 
appropriate ordinance procedures would probably cause serious hardship or impair effective city 
government. Such a temporary ordinance may be adopted with or without amendment at the meeting 
at which it is introduced and may be made effective immediately, and shall not be subject to the 
referendum, but it shall stand repealed on the ninety-first day following its adoption and shall not be 
renewed or otherwise extended as a temporary or emergency ordinance. It shall be published in the 
same manner as an emergency ordinance.
34 of 51

--- page 35 ---
Charter Amendments
Study Session
October 16, 2023
Prasanna W. Rasiah
City Attorney
35 of 51

--- page 36 ---
Questions for Council
• Substantively, does the Council agree with the proposed 
Charter amendments addressing mayoral rotation, filling 
vacancies, district elections and other changes
• Procedurally, does the Council agree with:
• Splitting the amendments into two ballot measures
• The schedule of Council meetings and community outreach
• Obtaining consultant assistance and polling
36 of 51

--- page 37 ---
Mayoral Rotation
• The council shall meet at the first regular council meeting in 
December following a general municipal election and 
canvass the returns thereof. 
• The new members shall then be inducted into office, 
whereupon the council shall elect the mayor and deputy 
mayor without continuing such action to a future date and 
time absent a unanimous vote of the Council, or a fire, 
flood, or other disaster. 
37 of 51

--- page 38 ---
Filling Council Vacancies – Part 1
• A vacancy on the city council from whatever cause arising 
shall be filled by appointment by the council provided, that 
• if the council fails to agree or for any other reason does not 
fill such vacancy within 30 60 days after the same occurs, 
then the city clerk shall call a special election at once to fill 
such vacancy such vacancy shall be filled by the mayor.
• The An appointee shall hold office until the next general 
election, when a successor shall be chosen by the electors 
for the unexpired term.
38 of 51

--- page 39 ---
Filling Council Vacancies – Part 2
• If for any reason the seats of a majority of the council 
become vacant, then the city clerk shall call a special 
election at once to fill the vacancies for the unexpired terms, 
and the same shall be conducted substantially in the manner 
provided for general municipal elections. 
• The candidates receiving the most votes shall serve the 
longer, if any, of the unexpired terms, and in case of ties 
the terms shall be fixed by lot.
39 of 51

--- page 40 ---
District Elections
• There shall be a city council of five members elected by the 
voters of the city at large by districts. 
• Any recall election or special election or appointment to fill 
a vacancy shall also be by district. 
• Following each decennial federal census, and at other such 
times as provided by law, the city council shall, by 
ordinance, adopt boundaries for all council districts so that 
all of the districts shall comply with state and federal law.
40 of 51

--- page 41 ---
Staff recommended amendments
• Remove provision extending terms of Council members 
elected in 2015 and 2017 by one year (SB 415).
• Emergency (Urgency) Ordinances:
• Would allow publication of summary
• Would delete language automatically repealing urgency 
ordinances after 90 days.
• Remove “verified statement of candidates” filing 
requirement with Clerk (background, photo, etc.) 
41 of 51

--- page 42 ---
Proposed Schedule
Dates
Purpose
October 16, 2023
Council Study Session 
January 2, 2024
Council Study Session
February 20, 2024
Council Study Session (if necessary)
April 1, 2024
First Public Hearing
May 6, 2024
Second Public Hearing
June 3, 2024
Council submits measure to voters 
August 9, 2024
88 days before election
November 5, 2024
Election Day
42 of 51

--- page 43 ---
Questions for Council
• Substantively, does the Council agree with the proposed 
Charter amendment language addressing mayoral rotation, 
filling vacancies, district elections and other changes
• Procedurally, does the Council agree with:
• Splitting the amendments into two ballot measures
• The schedule of Council meetings and community outreach
• Obtaining consultant assistance and polling
43 of 51

--- page 44 ---
Council Compensation
• The mayor and other members of the city council shall each 
receive $600.00 per month compensation for their services 
as council 
• Compensation may be adjusted in the manner authorized by 
the general laws of the State for general law cities of the 
same population as San Mateo
44 of 51

--- page 45 ---
Council Meeting Start Time
• The regular meetings of the council shall be held on the first and 
third Monday of each month not earlier than 6:30 p.m., but any 
regular meeting may be adjourned to a date and time certain, 
which adjourned meeting shall be a regular meeting for all 
purposes. 
• The council may, in its discretion, change the date of any regularly 
scheduled Monday council meeting which would fall on a holiday 
or other inconvenient day to the nearest convenient day 
subsequent to the regularly scheduled Monday council meeting.
45 of 51

--- page 46 ---
Council Meeting Location
• All regular and adjourned regular meetings of the council shall be 
held in the City Hall, unless, by reason of fire, flood or other 
disaster, the City Hall cannot be used for that purpose, or the 
council determines that another location in the city would be more 
suitable due to the capacity or condition of the City Hall.
46 of 51

--- page 47 ---
Board and Commission Members - Removal
•Members of such boards and commissions shall 
serve at the pleasure of the city council, and any 
member may be removed by the vote of a majority 
of the council plus one.
47 of 51

--- page 48 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-1111
File ID: 23-8109
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
October 16, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Hate Speech and Remote Public Comment during Public Meetings
RECOMMENDATION:
Discuss the recent occurrence of hate speech through remote public comment during the October 2, 2023 City Council 
meeting and provide direction on possible remote public comment procedural changes.
BACKGROUND:
During the October 2, 2023, City Council meeting, multiple instances of hate speech occurred through remote public 
comment and led to harmful and disruptive impacts.  Several neighboring cities have had similar experiences and have 
suspended remote public comment for the time being.  At this time, we are requesting Council direction as to whether 
there should be any changes in handling remote public comment. 
In addition to the City of San Mateo, disruptors also “hate bombed” other cities in San Mateo County, namely Pacifica, 
Atherton, South San Francisco and San Carlos. There have been additional instances of the same or similar individuals 
targeting cities throughout the Bay Area. 
In response to this flood of “hate speech,” numerous jurisdictions have either suspended remote public comment or are 
considering whether to do so.  In San Mateo County, the following cities have suspended remote public comment: 
Burlingame, Millbrae, Pacifica, Redwood City, San Bruno, and South San Francisco.  Daly City had discontinued remote 
access public comments prior to the recent incidents. Other cities are continuing to allow remote public comments, such 
as Atherton, Belmont, Brisbane, Half Moon Bay, Millbrae, and San Mateo.  But many have implemented procedures to 
prominently state that public comment is a limited public forum, require speakers to stay on-topic or within the subject 
matter jurisdiction of the city in their public comments, and emphasize council rules for public decorum. 
For many years, in-person public comment and written engagement has successfully led to thoughtful and robust 
discussion and decision-making. The pandemic led to technological advances that allowed remote public comment, 
thereby allowing more residents to engage through convenient means but also creating an opportunity for hate speech.  In 
this case white, supremacists used Zoom technology to hide behind fake names and anonymity to shock and viscerally 
impact local communities and individuals by engendering hate. 
As the City of San Mateo knew from our neighboring cities that hate speech was a possibility at the October 2 meeting, we 
were prepared with additional scripting for the Deputy Mayor, a statement outlining our rules that was visible on Zoom 
and projected in the Council Chambers, reminders of the need to stay on topic, and a warning that speakers would not be 
allowed to continue providing comment if not on topic. A reminder of the decorum observed in our public meetings was 
also noted. 
48 of 51

--- page 49 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Rules Governing Speech
Although extremely difficult to listen to, “hate speech” is afforded protections under the First Amendment of the U.S. 
Constitution and California Constitution.  But courts have held that the public comment portion of a city council meeting is  
a limited public forum – not a designated forum for any and all speech.  Comments are subject to “time, place, and 
manner” regulations as well as rules that limit speech to the item at issue or are within the subject matter jurisdiction of 
the city.  While a city may adopt reasonable regulations to govern the conduct of a public meeting, care must be given to 
ensure that the regulations themselves do not violate the public’s freedom of expression by constituting a barrier to 
providing comments or a “prior restraint” on expression. 
The courts have also found that the First Amendment allows a hateful speaker their room to express their opinions unless 
and until the speech “disrupts” the meeting. For example, in Williamson v. City of National City (9th Cir. 2022) 23 F.4th 
1146, the court validated the removal of persons who were lying prone on the floor making it impossible to continue the 
meeting. In these instances, if their speech disrupts the meeting such that the Council can no longer perform the tasks of 
the meeting, then they can be removed. On the other hand, in Norse v. City of Santa Cruz (9th Cir. 2010) 629 F.3d 966, the 
removal of a commenter who made a Nazi salute was invalid because simply saluting was not a “disruption” of the 
meeting and therefore his removal violated his right to free speech. The court defined “disruption” as an action that 
“actually disrupt[s]” and not merely distressing. 
In California, the Ralph M. Brown Act applies to meetings conducted by local public agencies to ensure that the public has 
the opportunity to view and participate in meetings of legislative bodies. The Brown Act requires public meetings to 
provide the public with the opportunity to comment on agenda items. At a regular meeting, the public must be able to 
address the legislative body on “any item of interest to the public, before or during the legislative body’s consideration of 
the item, which is within the subject matter jurisdiction of the legislative body.” The Brown Act also authorizes a legislative 
body to adopt reasonable regulations to ensure that the intent of the provisions relating to this public comment 
requirement are followed, including, but not limited to, regulations limiting the total amount of time allocated for public 
testimony on individual issues and for each individual speaker. 
In 2022, SB 1100 was signed into law which revised the Brown Act to authorize the presiding member of the legislative 
body conducting a meeting to remove, or cause the removal of, an individual for disrupting the meeting. Generally, the 
new law requires removal to be preceded by a warning to the individual by the presiding member of the legislative body or 
their designee that the individual’s behavior is disrupting the meeting and that the individual’s failure to cease their 
behavior may result in their removal. “Disrupting” is defined as engaging in behavior during a meeting of a legislative body 
that actually disrupts, disturbs, impedes, or renders infeasible the orderly conduct of the meeting and includes, but is not 
limited to, one of the following: (1) a failure to comply with reasonable and lawful regulations adopted by a legislative 
body pursuant to Section 54954.3 or any other law; or 2) engaging in behavior that constitutes use of force or a true threat 
of force. However, both the Brown Act and First Amendment allow restrictions on speech which is not related to an 
agenda item or about a topic that is not within the subject matter jurisdiction of the legislative body. 
The City must conduct all of its public meetings in a manner that is consistent with the foregoing First Amendment rights of 
speakers, the Brown Act and other relevant regulations such as the City Council’s adopted Guidelines. Note the Brown Act 
prohibits the City from demanding that speakers provide their names (or other information), complete a questionnaire, or 
otherwise fulfill any condition precedent to attendance. (Govt. Code § 54953.3). Thus, the City Clerk could not pre-screen or 
otherwise require self-identification prior to speaking.
Council Direction Needed
The fundamental question before the Council tonight is whether or not to continue to allow remote public comment.  This 
involves an evaluation of the convenience for the public to participate in a public meeting from home versus the possibility 
of being subjected to hateful comments. 
 
49 of 51

--- page 50 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Remote Public Participation via Zoom 
City staff have worked with the Information Technology Department to make sure our controls are locked down to protect 
against Zoom bombing. However, these incidents of hate speech, fall into a different category because of First 
Amendment rights, and cannot be controlled with Zoom settings. Staff is also looking into broadcasting delay features. 
Public agencies are not required to provide remote access for public comments except for instances when a member of a 
legislative body is participating remotely under the Brown Act. 
Potential Procedural Strategies
At this time, staff has identified the following three potential procedural strategies:
1.
Temporarily suspend remote public comment, while continuing to use YouTube, Zoom and TV channels to stream 
the meeting. 
2.
Move public comments on non-agendized items to the end of the Agenda. This agenda order change could 
potentially decrease the number of community members exposed to hate speech with the additional warning 
language used at the October 2nd meeting.
3.
Continue as is, with the new warning language as part of the ongoing script. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this administrative action. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This discussion regarding remote public comment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Public Comment
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
50 of 51

--- page 51 ---
From:
Sheila Canzian
To:
Amourence Lee; Lisa Diaz Nash; Richard Hedges; Rob Newsom; Adam Loraine
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Patrice Olds
Subject:
Suspension of Call In Public Comments
Date:
Tuesday, October 3, 2023 3:47:34 PM
Honorable Mayor, Councilmembers and City Staff:
 
Although I am a member of the Library Board of Trustees, I am writing as a private San Mateo
resident and long time former City employee.  I, like many, was absolutely appalled at the hateful
and vile public comments that were spued during last evening’s City Council meeting. I commend
the quick action taken by City Clerk Patrice Olds in attempting to limit the amount of time people
were speaking and to the extent possible, keeping it off the audio feed of the meeting for those of us
watching from home.
 
It is indeed unfortunate that San Mateo was targeted along with several other cities in the Bay Area
by an organized group whose sole purpose is to disrupt public meetings with their vitriolic speech.  I
would request that the City Council consider suspending public call in comments at least in the short
term and perhaps as a long term policy.  Virtual participation was an absolute necessity during the
COVID pandemic and no doubt has become a convenient and expedient method of participation
since then for those unable or unwilling to show up to a meeting in person; however, its use has now
been hijacked to the point where its potential added value has been overshadowed by those outside
of our community who are using this platform for their own political agenda.  One only need be
reminded of the tremendous in-person public turn out for items that truly effect our community,
e.g. neighborhood flooding to appreciate the fact that showing up in person matters and that
residents will turn out, just as they have for previous decades. 
 
While I have seen comments that suggest there should be a 5-7 second delay in the audio feed of
City Council meetings in order to eliminate that speech from airing, such a solution does nothing to
eliminate such speech from being heard by staff, consultants and members of the public who are
present in the Council Chambers.  No one should be subjected to that type of vitriolic language. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 
 
Regards,
 
Sheila
51 of 51