source: packet.pdf
sha256: 0b12aa3616d559350f652adfd0264980938ea15ebac3ff7074f5d8da002c0468
pages: 179
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Sustainability & Infrastructure
Commission
March 11, 2020
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Rafael Reyes, Chair
Susan Rowinski, Vice Chair
Clifford Robbins
Greg St. Clair
Jackie Nuñez
AGENDA
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure regular meeting of February 12, 2020.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to
Speak" form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be
referred to staff for further review.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
Proposed ExteNet Systems Master License Agreement for Use of City Owned Poles
Review the proposed Master License Agreement with ExteNet Systems, provide comments to staff, and make a
recommendation to the City Council.
3.
Evaluation of Potential Trash Control Measures
Receive an update on potential trash control measures and provide input on recommended approaches to
achieve required trash reductions.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments, calendar of events and requests for future agenda items
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Agendas and background material are posted on the City’s website www.cityofanmateo.org at least 72 hours preceding each
Commission meeting. Any supplemental material distributed to Commissioners after the posting of the agenda will be available for
public review at City Hall, City Manager’s office. 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo.
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this
meeting may contact the Public Works Department, at (650) 522-7300. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to
make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
1 of 179

--- page 2 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
File ID: 2018 - 20-2701
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Brad Underwood
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
March 11, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure regular meeting of February 12, 2020. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes of the February 12, 2020 meeting 
2 of 179

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Sustainability & Infrastructure 
Commission  
February 12, 2020 
7:00 PM 
 
City Hall Council Chamber 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS  
Rafael Reyes, Chair  
Susan Rowinski, Vice Chair 
Clifford Robbins 
Greg St. Clair 
Jackie Nuñez 
MINUTES 
  
CALL TO ORDER 
  
Pledge of Allegiance 
 
Roll Call  
 
Present:  4 – Chair Reyes, Vice Chair Rowinski, Commissioners St. Clair and Robbins.  Commissioner Nuñez 
was absent and excused. 
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
  
Motion by Vice Chair Rowinski, seconded by Commissioner St. Clair to CONSENT CALENDAR.  The motion 
carried by the following vote: 
Yes:  4 – Chair Reyes, Vice Chair Rowinski, Commissioners St. Clair and Robbins. 
 
1. Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT  
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to 
Speak" form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be 
referred to staff for further review. 
No Public Comment  
 
NEW BUSINESS  
  
2. Citywide Bicycle Master Plan - Draft Plan Review and Recommendation 
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner, along with Megan Wooley-Ousdahl, consultant from 
Toole Design Groups, asked the Commissioners to review the draft 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and recommend 
whether to bring it forward for City Council adoption. 
 
Public Comment: 
 
The following spoke to the item: 
Adam Loraine, Sandhya Laddha, representing Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition, Michael Ragan, and Drew (no 
last name given). Emails were also submitted as public record by Members of the Citizen Advisory Group for 
3 of 179

--- page 4 ---
the Bicycle Master Plan, Sandhya Laddha, representing San Mateo County Advocate at Silicon Valley Bicycle 
Coalition, and two emails submitted by Mark Eliot 
Motion by Commissioner Robbins, seconded by Vice Chair Rowinski to approve the Citywide Bicycle Master 
Plan and forward to City Council for adoption with the following additional considerations: 
• 
Update the Commission on progress on the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan twice annually 
• 
Provide detail to City Council on funds currently allocated, and what would be entailed in reaching a 
proposed goal to allocate 5% of annual roadway maintenance budget to bicycle infrastructure 
maintenance. 
• 
Provide detail to City Council regarding Rapid Implementation Network projects and overlap with 
planned CIP projects as part of the Smooth Streets and pavement management programs. 
Motion carried by the following vote: 
Yes:  4 – Chair Reyes, Vice Chair Rowinski, Commissioners St. Clair and Robbins. 
 
3. Traffic Action Plan Review - Sugarloaf Neighborhood 
Bethany Lopez, Senior Engineer, presented the report and asked the Commissioners to review and comment 
on the Traffic Action Plan for the Sugarloaf Neighborhood. 
Public Comment: 
The following spoke to the item: 
Bob Kiss, Larry Ivich (also submitted letter as public record), and Michael Ragan  
Comments from the Commission included:  additional outreach and feedback; look at the impact to other 
neighborhoods; possibly add Laurelwood/Parkwood Traffic Action Plan; move quickly; clarify actual timeframe 
when stating short, medium, and long timeline. 
No motion needed for this item. 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENT FROM COMMISSIONER AND STAFF 
 
Director Underwood gave an update on future agenda items; Small Cell Master License Agreement in March; 
Results of the Trash Reassessment, Climate Action Plan Progress Report, and Reach Codes, tentatively 
scheduled for April.  The Storm Water Activity Funding Analysis and South Bay Waste Management Authority 
Overview are scheduled for May. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Meeting adjourned at 9:15 PM 
 
Agendas and background material are posted on the City’s website www.cityofanmateo.org at least 72 hours preceding 
each Commission meeting.  Any supplemental material distributed to Commissioners after the posting of the agenda will 
be available for public review at City Hall, City Manager’s office. 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo. 
 
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to 
participate in this meeting may contact the Public Works Department, at (650) 522-7300.  Notification 48 hours prior to the 
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting. 
 
4 of 179

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
File ID: 20-2528
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Brad Underwood
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
March 11, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Proposed ExteNet Systems Master License Agreement for Use of City Owned Poles
RECOMMENDATION:
Review the proposed Master License Agreement with ExteNet Systems, provide comments to staff, and make a 
recommendation to the City Council.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo (City) owns over 5,000 streetlights throughout the city. In addition to city-owned streetlights, there 
are numerous utility poles owned by Pacific Gas and Electric. The City has received applications for the installation of 
wireless small cell facilities only on utility poles and city streetlights.  Currently, installations are not allowed on city 
streetlights unless the wireless company has a master license agreement with the City that covers the terms and 
conditions of the use of city infrastructure. The use of streetlights provides additional locations for installation of less 
visually obtrusive systems and greatly reduces the need for wireless companies to install their own poles throughout the 
city.
In order for ExteNet Systems LLC, on behalf of Sprint, to use the City’s streetlight poles, they must enter into a license 
agreement with the City. The attached Master License Agreement (Agreement) has been developed and reviewed by City 
staff and ExteNet Systems.  The Agreement is substantially the same as the Verizon and AT&T agreements approved by 
City Council during 2019. With an executed Agreement, ExteNet Systems will still be required to obtain Wireless 
Communication Facilities permits and follow all requirements of the City’s wireless telecommunications ordinance 
intended to “establish reasonable, uniform and comprehensive standards and procedures for wireless facilities 
deployment, construction, installation, collocation, modification, operation, relocation and removal within the City” 
consistent with the federal and California State Law.  
The term of the Agreement is ten years with fifteen one-year renewal options. The term of any elecommunications permit 
issued for a location subject to the Agreement will be the same as the Agreement term. The annual charge for each pole, 
which is dictated by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), will be $270. With respect to radio frequency 
emissions, ExteNet Systems will be required to demonstrate compliance with FCC standards upon installation and any 
future modification.  
If the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission recommends approval and the City Council approves the Agreement, 
ExteNet Systems would be able to install small cell facilities on City-owned streetlight poles.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Review of the Master License Agreement will not impact the City’s operating budget.
5 of 179

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This review of the Master License Agreement is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it 
consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or 
private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – ExteNet Systems Master License Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Matthew Trieu 
mtrieu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7382
6 of 179

--- page 7 ---
Page 1 of 33
39
107770644_2
MASTER LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR WIRELESS FACILITIES ON CITY POLES
IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY
This MASTER LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR WIRELESS FACILITIES ON CITY 
POLES IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY (“Master License”) dated _____________ (the “Effective 
Date”) is between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a California municipal corporation (the “City’) 
and ExteNet Systems (California) LLC, a California limited liability company (the “Licensee”).
BACKGROUND
A.
WHEREAS, technology developments and demand for high-speed mobile data service 
and capacity has extended beyond the capabilities of traditional macrocell wireless 
communications facilities.  To meet this demand, wireless providers have accelerated their small 
cell and distributed antenna system (“DAS”) deployments in the public right-of-way and the City 
has a clear incentive to manage these accelerated deployments in a way that preserves local 
aesthetics and public health and safety; and
B.
WHEREAS, Licensee is in the business of installing, maintaining and operating wireless 
communication facilities and typically installs, maintains and operates its wireless 
communications facilities on existing vertical infrastructure in the public right-of-way; and
C.
WHEREAS, the City owns as its personal property a number of existing Poles (defined 
below) within the public right-of-way that are potentially suitable for installing wireless 
communications facilities within the City’s jurisdiction; and
D.
WHEREAS, Licensee desires to install, maintain and operate wireless communications 
facilities on the City’s Poles in the public right-of-way and Licensee is willing to compensate the 
City for the right to use the City’s Poles for wireless communications purposes; and
E.
WHEREAS, consistent with California state law, the City intends this Master License 
and any Wireless Permit (defined below) to be applicable only to City-owned Poles; and
F.
WHEREAS, consistent with all applicable Laws, the City does not intend this Master 
License to grant the Licensee any exclusive right to use or occupy the public rights-of-way 
within the City’s territorial and/or jurisdictional boundaries, and Licensee expressly 
acknowledges that the City may enter into similar or identical agreements with other entities, 
which include without limitation Licensee’s competitors; and
G.
WHEREAS, the City desires to authorize Licensee’s access to individual City-owned 
poles based on a comprehensive and uniform Master License according to the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Master License, any applicable Wireless Permit, and pursuant to all 
the applicable permits issued by the City to protect public health and safety; and
H.
WHEREAS, on March 18, 2019, the City Council of the City of San Mateo approved the 
form and material terms for a Master License for Wireless Facilities on City Poles in the right-of-
way to be used in connection with the licensing of Poles and other City-owned property for 
wireless communications facilities, and further delegated authority to the City Manager to enter 
into such agreements.
NOW THEREFORE, for good, valuable and sufficient consideration received and 
acknowledged by the City and Licensee, the City and Licensee agree as follows:
7 of 179

--- page 8 ---
Page 2 of 33
39
107770644_2
AGREEMENT
1.
GENERAL DEFINITIONS
“Agent” means agent, employee, officer, contractor, subcontractor, and representative of a party 
in relation to this Master License and the License Area.
“Assignment” means any of the following: (a) a merger, acquisition, or other transfer of a 
controlling interest in Licensee, voluntarily or by operation of Law; (b) Licensee’s sale, 
assignment, encumbrance, pledge, or other transfer of any part of its interest in or rights with 
respect to the License Area; and (c) any action by Licensee to permit any portion of the License 
Area to be occupied by anyone other than itself, including a sublicense.
“Common Control” means two entities that are both Controlled by the same third entity.
“Control” means (a) as to a corporation, the ownership of stock having the right to exercise 
more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the controlled 
corporation, issued and outstanding; or (b) as to partnerships and other forms of business 
associations, ownership of more than 50% of the beneficial interest and voting control of such 
association.
“CPUC” means the California Public Utilities Commission established in the California 
Constitution, Article XII, Section 5, or its duly appointed successor agency.
“EMF” means electromagnetic fields or radio frequency generally between 30 kHz and 300 GHz 
in the electromagnetic spectrum range.
“Environmental Laws” means any Law relating to industrial hygiene, environmental 
conditions, or Hazardous Materials.
“Equipment” means antennas and any associated utility or equipment box, and battery backup, 
transmitters, receivers, radios, amplifiers, ancillary fiber-optic cables and wiring, and ancillary 
equipment for the transmission and reception of radio communication signals for voice and other 
data transmission, including the means and devices used to attach Equipment to, or adjacent to, a 
licensed City Pole, peripherals, and ancillary equipment and installations, including wiring, 
cabling, power feeds, and any approved signage attached to Equipment.
“FCC” means the Federal Communications Commission or its duly appointed successor agency.
“FCC Order” means the Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order (WT Docket No. 17-
79; WC Docket No. 17-84) adopted by FCC on September 26, 2018, which, inter alia, clarifies 
Sections 253 and 332(c)(7) of the Communications Act as they apply to state and local 
regulation of wireless infrastructure deployment, including identifying specific fee levels for 
small wireless facility deployments that presumably comply with the relevant standard.
“Hazardous Material” means any material that, because of its quantity, concentration, or 
physical or chemical characteristics, is at any time now or hereafter deemed by any Regulatory 
Agency to pose a present or potential hazard to human health, welfare, or safety or to the 
environment.  Hazardous Material includes any material or substance defined as a “hazardous 
substance,” or “pollutant” or “contaminant” in the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (“CERCLA”) (codified as 42 U.S.C. §§ 9601 et seq.) or 
8 of 179

--- page 9 ---
Page 3 of 33
39
107770644_2
Section 25316 of the California Health & Safety Code; and any “hazardous waste” listed 
California Health & Safety Code § 25140; and petroleum, including crude oil or any fraction 
thereof, natural gas or natural gas liquids.
“Investigate and Remediate” means the undertaking of any activities to determine the nature 
and extent of Hazardous Material that may be located in, on, under or about the License Area or 
that has been, is being, or is in danger of being Released into the environment, and to clean up, 
remove, contain, treat, stabilize, monitor or otherwise control such Hazardous Material.
“Invitee” means the client, customer, invitee, guest, tenant, subtenant, licensee, authorized 
assignee and authorized sublicensee of a party in relation to the License Area.
“Laws” means any and all laws, regulations, ordinances, resolutions, judicial decisions, rules, 
permits and approvals applicable to Licensee’s use that are in force on the date of this Master 
License or as lawfully amended including, without limitation, the California Building Code, the 
City’s Municipal Code, Design and Engineering Standards, and standard Conditions of 
Approval. If, after the date of this Master License, the rights or obligations of either Party are 
materially preempted or superseded by changes in Laws, the parties agree to amend the Master 
License to reflect the change in Laws.
“License Area” means the area and Pole identified in each Wireless Permit that Licensee may 
use for its Permitted Use. 
“Licensee’s On-Call Representative” mean the person(s) assigned by Licensee to be on-call 
and available to the City regarding the operation of Licensee’s Equipment.  Such person(s) shall 
be qualified and experienced in the operation of Equipment and shall be authorized to act on 
behalf of Licensee in any emergency and in day-to-day operations of the Equipment.
“Permitted Use” means Licensee’s installation, operation and maintenance of Equipment for the 
transmission and reception of wireless, cellular telephone and data and related communications 
in License Areas.
“Pole” or “City Pole” means a street light pole, traffic signal pole, utility pole or other support 
structure located in the public right-of-way within the City and owned by the City.
 “Property” means any interest in real or personal property, including land, air and water areas, 
leasehold interests, possessory interests, easements, franchises and other appurtenances, public 
rights-of-way, physical works of improvements such as buildings, structures, infrastructure, 
utility and other facilities, and alterations, installations, fixtures, furnishings and additions to 
existing real property, personal property and improvements.
“Regulatory Agency” means the local, regional, state or federal body with jurisdiction and 
responsibility for issuing Regulatory Approvals in accordance with applicable Laws.
“Regulatory Approvals” means licenses, permits and other approvals necessary for Licensee to 
install, operate and maintain Equipment on the License Area.
“Release” when used with respect to Hazardous Material includes any actual or imminent 
spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, 
9 of 179

--- page 10 ---
Page 4 of 33
39
107770644_2
leaching, dumping or disposing on, under or about the License Area, other City Property or the 
environment.
“Wireless Telecommunications Ordinance” means the City’s ordinance regulating wireless 
telecommunications facilities, which took effect on August 16, 2018, and is codified in Chapter 
17.10 of the City of San Mateo Municipal Code.
“Wireless Permit” means a permit obtained pursuant to the City’s Wireless 
Telecommunications Ordinance.
“Wireless Permit Application” means the application form used by the City that will identify 
the City Pole(s) for installation of Equipment and describe the proposed Equipment, which shall 
be accompanied by other relevant information and documents as required by the City’s Wireless 
Telecommunications Ordinance.
2.
SCOPE OF LICENSE
2.1.
License Area
2.1.1.
Wireless Permit Issuance and Effect
Subject to the terms and conditions in this Master License, the City will issue to Licensee 
one or more Wireless Permits for any Poles not already subject to a Wireless Permit, which will 
grant Licensee the right to use the space on the subject Pole approved for the Equipment, which 
includes any conduits, pull boxes or other items specifically identified in the Approved Plans 
attached to the Wireless Permit.
2.1.2.
Limitations
This Master License applies to only Poles identified in final and fully executed Wireless 
Permits.  This Master License does not authorize Licensee or any other persons or entities to 
enter on to or use any other City Property, except the areas specified in any Wireless Permits.  
Furthermore, neither this Master License nor any Wireless Permit authorizes or confers any 
rights in Licensee or any other persons or entities to use any portions of the public rights-of-way, 
or any improvements or other personal property within the public rights-of-way owned by any 
third parties. In the event of a conflict between this Master License and a Wireless Permit, the 
terms of the Wireless Permit will govern.
2.1.3.
Limited Interest Created
Licensee expressly acknowledges and agrees that (1) Licensee does not have any rights to 
use or possess interest or rights in any Pole for any purpose whatsoever until and unless the City 
issues a Wireless Permit for such Pole; and (2) it is the parties’ intent that neither this Master 
License nor any Wireless Permit issued pursuant to this Master License creates or will be 
deemed to create any leasehold, easement, franchise or any other possessory interest or real 
property interest whatsoever.  In the event that there is a determination that ad valorem, privilege 
or other taxes or assessments are to be levied as a result of this Master License, Licensee shall be 
obligated to pay any such possessory interest taxes as set forth in paragraph 12 below.
10 of 179

--- page 11 ---
Page 5 of 33
39
107770644_2
2.1.4.
Limited Rights Created
Any Wireless Permit the City approves pursuant to this Master License grants to 
Licensee only a non-possessory and revocable permit to enter on to and use the permitted area 
for the Permitted Use.  Licensee expressly acknowledges and agrees that (1) neither this Master 
License or any Wireless Permit will be coupled with an interest; (2) the City retains legal 
possession and control over all Poles for the City’s operations, which will be superior to 
Licensee’s interest at all times; (3) subject to the terms and conditions in this Master License, the 
City may terminate a Wireless Permit in whole or in part at any time; (4) except as specifically 
provided otherwise in this Master License, the City may enter into any agreement with third 
parties in connection with use and occupancy of Poles and other City Property; (5) Licensee has 
no ownership rights in any Pole whatsoever; and (6) neither this Master License nor any 
Wireless Permit creates or will be deemed to create any partnership or joint venture between the 
City and Licensee.
2.1.5.
No Impediment to Municipal Uses
Except as specifically provided otherwise in this Master License, neither this Master 
License nor any Wireless Permit limits, alters or waives the City’s right to use any License Area 
in whole or in part as infrastructure established and maintained for the City’s and the public’s 
benefit.
2.2.
Diminutions in Light, Air and Signal
In the event that any existing or future structure diminishes any light, air or signal 
propagation, transmission or reception, whether erected by the City or not, Licensee shall not be 
entitled to any reduction in any license charge, additional fees or any other sums payable to the 
City under this Master License or any Wireless Permit, and the City shall have no liability to 
Licensee whatsoever and such diminution will not affect this Master License, any Wireless 
Permit or Licensee’s obligations except as may be expressly provided in this Master License.
2.3.
License Area Condition
2.3.1.
“As-Is and With All Faults” Condition
Licensee expressly acknowledges and agrees to enter on to and use the License Area in 
its “as-is and with all faults” condition.  The City makes no representations or warranties 
whatsoever, whether express or implied, as to the License Area’s condition or suitability for 
Licensee’s use.  Licensee expressly acknowledges and agrees that neither the City nor its Agents 
have made, and the City expressly disclaims, any representations or warranties whatsoever, 
whether express or implied, with respect to the physical, structural or environmental condition of 
the License Area, the present or future suitability of the License Area for the Permitted Use, or 
any other matter related to the License Area.
2.3.2.
Licensee’s Due Diligence
Licensee expressly represents and warrants to the City that Licensee has conducted a 
reasonably diligent and independent investigation, either for itself or through an Agent selected 
by Licensee, into the License Area condition and suitability for Licensee’s intended use, and that 
Licensee relies solely on its due diligence for such determination.  Licensee further expressly 
11 of 179

--- page 12 ---
Page 6 of 33
39
107770644_2
represents and warrants to the City that Licensee’s intended use is the Permitted Use as defined 
in Section 5 in this Master License.
2.3.3.
Certified Access Specialist Disclosure
Pursuant to California Civil Code § 1938, and to the extent applicable to this Master 
License, the City expressly advises Licensee, and Licensee expressly acknowledges, that a 
Certified Access Specialist (as defined in California Civil Code § 55.53) has not inspected any 
License Area in whole or in part to determine whether it meets all applicable construction-related 
accessibility requirements.
3.
TERM
3.1.
Master License Term.
The initial term under this Master License (the “Initial Term”) will commence on the Effective 
Date and will expire ten (10) years from the Effective Date, unless earlier terminated in 
accordance with this Master License. This Master License shall be automatically renewed 
annually for one-year renewal terms for up to an additional fifteen (15) years (each, a “Renewal 
Term”), unless Licensee notifies the City in writing of Licensee’s intent not to renew this Master 
License at least thirty (30) days, or City notifies Licensee in writing of City’s intent not to renew 
this Master License at least one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the expiration of the Initial 
Term or any Renewal Term.  The Initial Term and all Renewal Terms shall be collectively 
referred to herein as the “Term.”    
3.2.
Wireless Permit Term.
The term of each Wireless Permit shall be for ten (10) years beginning on the 
Commencement Date, as defined in Section 4.1.1, unless earlier terminated pursuant to this 
Master License.  Unless Licensee is in material breach of this Master License beyond the 
applicable cure period or the Master License has terminated or Licensee provides written notice 
to the City prior to the expiration of the then current term that Licensee will not renew the 
Wireless Permit term, the term will automatically renew annually for one-year renewal terms for 
up to an additional fifteen (15) years , upon the same terms and conditions set forth in this 
Master License, including the termination provisions set forth above. 
4.
LICENSE CHARGE; OTHER PAYMENTS
4.1.
License Charges
4.1.1.
Commencement Date
Licensee shall pay an annual License Charge under each Wireless Permit beginning on its 
“Commencement Date,” which is defined as either: (1) the first anniversary of the effective date 
of the Wireless Permit or (2) the first day of the month before the date Licensee commences 
construction in the License Area necessary for the Permitted Use (whichever occurs later).  The 
parties define a “License Year” to mean any 12-month period (or shorter period in the event that 
a Wireless Permit commences less than 12 months from the next January 1 or the expiration date 
of this Master License) that begins on the Commencement Date for each Wireless Permit. 
Licensee shall provide written notice of the Commencement Date to the City. If the City does not 
12 of 179

--- page 13 ---
Page 7 of 33
39
107770644_2
acknowledge and return or object to such notice within 10 days of receipt, the Commencement 
Date shall be deemed confirmed as the date provided on such notice.
4.1.2.
License Charge Amount
Licensee shall pay to the City an annual charge of $270.00 per pole (the “License 
Charge”). Payment of the initial License Charge payment shall be made within ninety (90) days 
after confirmation the Commencement Date and thereafter each subsequent annual License 
Charge payment shall be made on or before each anniversary of the Commencement Date.  City 
shall provide Licensee a completed, current Internal Revenue Service Form W-9 and state and 
local withholding forms if required. Licensee may make payments by check made out to the 
order of the City of San Mateo and sent to the following address or through electronic transfer 
subject to the City’s approval and necessary bank routing instructions.
City of San Mateo
Department of Public Works
Attn:  Administration 
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403
(650) 522-7300
4.2.
Administrative Fees
4.2.1.
Permit Fees
Licensee will pay the permit and processing fees set forth in the City’s Master Fee 
Schedule that is part of City’s applicable ordinance for Department Public Works permit fees and 
in conjunction with the FCC order 18-133.
4.3.
Late Charges
In the event that Licensee fails to pay any fee or any other amount payable to the City 
within 30 days after the City notifies Licensee in writing that such amounts are due and unpaid, 
such amounts will be subject to a late charge equal to 2% of unpaid amounts.
5.
USES
5.1.
Permitted Use
Licensee may use the License Area solely for the Permitted Use in compliance with all 
applicable Laws and any conditions in any Regulatory Approvals and for no other use 
whatsoever without the City’s prior written consent, which the City may withhold in its sole and 
absolute discretion for any or no reason.  Licensee may sublicense or otherwise allow its Invitees 
to use capacity on Licensee’s Equipment; provided, however, that any such third parties shall not 
be permitted to perform any physical work on any Pole without the City’s prior written consent, 
which the City may reasonably withhold or condition as the City deems necessary to protect the 
Pole or public health safety and/or welfare.
13 of 179

--- page 14 ---
Page 8 of 33
39
107770644_2
5.2.
Prohibition on “Macro Cell” Uses
The City and Licensee intend this Master License and any Wireless Permit to cover only 
“small cell” installations, as defined in state and federal law and in the FCC Order.  Licensee 
expressly acknowledges and agrees that the Permitted Use under this Master License does not 
include the right to use any Pole as a support structure for a “macro cell” or a traditional wireless 
tower typically constructed on private property.
5.3.
Prohibition on Illegal Uses or Nuisances
Licensee shall not use the License Area in whole or in part in any unlawful manner or for 
any illegal purpose.  In addition, Licensee shall not use the License Area in whole or in part in 
any manner that constitutes a nuisance or hazard as determined by the City in its reasonable 
judgment.  Licensee shall take all precautions to eliminate any nuisances or hazards in 
connection with its uses and activities on or about the License Area.
5.4.
Signs or Advertisements
Licensee acknowledges and agrees that its rights under this Master License and any 
Wireless Permit do not authorize Licensee to erect, post or maintain, or permit others to erect, 
post or maintain, any signs, notices, graphics or advertisements whatsoever on the License Area; 
except as required by the FCC and applicable Laws.
6.
WIRELESS PERMITS REQUIRED
6.1.
City Approval Required
Licensee shall not have any right to use the License Area in whole or in part for any 
purpose until and unless the City approves a Wireless Permit for that License Area.  Subject to 
any express limitations in this Master License, the City will not be obligated to subordinate its 
municipal functions or proprietary interest in any manner whatsoever to Licensee’s interest under 
any Wireless Permit.  When the City considers whether to approve or disapprove any Wireless 
Permit Application, the City may consider any matter that affects its municipal functions or 
proprietary interests, which include without limitation: (1) Licensee’s proposed plans and 
Equipment specifications; (2) compliance with any applicable Laws; (3) impacts on the City’s 
street light operations; (4) any potential hazards or unsafe conditions that could result from 
Licensee’s installation, operation or maintenance; (5) any potential visual or aesthetic impacts as 
set forth in applicable Laws; (6) the additional load on the Pole the proposed Equipment would 
create; and (7) any municipal plans for the Pole or right-of-way in proximity to the Pole. 
Licensee shall file with the City a Wireless Permit Application for one or more City Poles 
where Licensee desires to install Equipment. Within the timeframes required by the FCC Order, 
which period may be extended by mutual written consent, the City shall, in writing, either 
approve the Wireless Permit Application, or reject the Wireless Permit Application by 
identifying the specific reasons why the Wireless Permit Application is not in compliance with 
this Master License, the City’s Wireless Telecommunications Ordinance, or design and 
engineering standards, otherwise the City Pole Application shall be deemed accepted. The 
review period for the Wireless Permit Application will be in compliance with FCC regulations, 
rulings, and orders.
14 of 179

--- page 15 ---
Page 9 of 33
39
107770644_2
6.1.1.
City’s Right to Disapprove
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, Licensee acknowledges that the City reserves 
the absolute right to disapprove any Wireless Permit Application in whole or in part when the 
City determines in its sole judgment that the subject Pole Location or proposed Equipment would 
interfere with the City’s municipal functions or create a hazardous or unsafe condition.
7.
EQUIPMENT INSTALLATION
7.1.
Approved Plans and Equipment Specifications
Licensee must submit detailed plans and equipment specifications with Wireless Permit 
Application, which must include without limitation all equipment, mounts, hardware, utilities, 
cables, conduits, signage, concealment elements and other improvements proposed in connection 
with the License Area.  Licensee acknowledges that the exhibit to any approved Wireless Permit 
will be deemed to be the “Approved Plans” and that Licensee will be permitted to install only 
the Equipment and other improvements shown on such Approved Plans.
7.2.
Installation; Strict Compliance with Approved Plans
Licensee shall not commence any work at the License Area until the licensee has 
obtained a Wireless Permit.  Licensee shall perform all work in connection with the License Area 
in strict compliance with the Approved Plans and in a diligent, skillful and workmanlike manner.  
All installed Equipment must be high quality, safe, fire resistant, modern in design and attractive 
in appearance, all as approved by the City.  After any work at the License Area concludes, 
Licensee shall restore the License Area and any other City Property to the condition that existed 
immediately prior to when the work commenced.
7.2.1.
Alterations to City’s Property
Neither Licensee nor its Agents or Invitees may remove, damage or in any manner alter 
any City Property without prior written consent from the City and any other City agencies with 
jurisdiction over the subject City Property.  The City may withhold its consent in its sole and 
absolute discretion, and may reasonably condition its consent in each instance based on scope 
and nature of the proposed alterations.  Licensee shall immediately notify the City if any 
removal, damage or other alteration occurs to City Property for any reason and through any 
cause.
7.2.2.
Licensee’s Contractors
Licensee shall use only qualified and trained persons and appropriately licensed 
contractors for all work performed on or about the License Area.  At least five (5) business days 
before any work commences on or about the License Area, Licensee shall provide the City with: 
(1) a schedule with all activities to be performed in connection with the work; and (2) a list with 
all the names, contractors’ license numbers, contact information, and business addresses for all 
contractors or subcontractors who will perform the work.
15 of 179

--- page 16 ---
Page 10 of 33
39
107770644_2
7.3.
Labor and Materials Costs
Licensee shall be responsible for all direct and indirect costs (labor, materials, and 
overhead or prevailing wages if required) in connection with designing, purchasing and installing 
all Equipment in accordance with the Approved Plans and all applicable Laws.  Licensee shall 
also bear all costs to obtain and maintain all Regulatory Approvals required in connection with 
the installation, which includes without limitation all direct and indirect costs to comply with any 
approval conditions or mitigation measures that arise from Licensee’s proposed installation.  
Licensee shall timely pay for all labor, materials, Equipment and all professional services related 
to the Permitted Use or furnished to the License Area at Licensee’s direction or for Licensee’s 
benefit.
7.4.
Prevailing Wages
The services to be provided under this Section 7 may be subject to prevailing wage rate 
payment as set forth in California Labor Code Section 1771.  Accordingly, to the extent that such 
services are subject to the prevailing wage rate payment requirements, Licensee shall comply 
with all California Labor Code requirements pertaining to “public works,” including the payment 
of prevailing wages in connection with the services to be provided hereunder (collectively, 
“Prevailing Wage Policies”). 
Licensee shall defend, indemnify and hold the City harmless and its officers, officials, 
employees, volunteers, agents and representatives (collectively, “Indemnitees”) from and against 
any and all present and future liabilities, obligations, orders, claims, damages, fines, penalties 
and expenses (including attorneys’ fees and costs) (collectively, “Claims”), arising out of or in 
any way connected with Licensee’s obligation to comply with all laws with respect to the work 
of improvements or Prevailing Wage Policies, including all Claims that may be made by 
contractors, subcontractors or other third party claimants pursuant to Labor Code sections 1726 
and 1781, as amended and added by Senate Bill 966.
7.5.
Title to Licensee’s Equipment and Other Improvements
Except as specifically provided otherwise in this Master License, all Equipment and other 
improvements installed, constructed or placed on or about the License Area by Licensee or its 
Agents or Invitees will be deemed and remain at all times Licensee’s personal property.  All 
structural improvements to any Pole, any replacement Pole and any underground fiber optic 
cables, all as approved by the City and shown in the Approved Plans, will become and remain 
City Property should Licensee vacate or abandon such License Area, unless the City elects in a 
written notice to Licensee that it does not wish to take title to such structural improvements.  
Subject to Section 22 (Surrender of License Area), Licensee may remove its Equipment from the 
License Area at any time after 30 days’ written notice to the City.
8.
PUBLIC WORKS OPERATIONS
8.1.
City’s Access to License Areas
Except as specifically provided otherwise in this Master License, the City and its Agents 
have the right to access any License Area in whole or in part at any time without notice for any 
purpose.  The City will not be liable in any manner whatsoever, and Licensee expressly waives 
16 of 179

--- page 17 ---
Page 11 of 33
39
107770644_2
any claims for inconvenience, disturbance, lost business, nuisance or other damages that may 
arise from the City’s or its Agents’ access to the License Area, which includes any Equipment 
removed in an emergency or other exigent circumstances pursuant to Section 8.4 (Emergencies), 
except to the extent that the damage arises from the negligence or willful misconduct of the City 
or its Agents.
8.2.
Repairs, Maintenance and Alterations to Poles
The City and/or the City’s Public Works Department will: (1) maintain and repair Poles 
as needed, in its sole judgment, for its street light operations and other municipal functions; (2) 
correct any immediately hazardous condition.  Excluding conditions that arise from the City’s or 
its Agents’ negligence or willful misconduct, neither any City work on any Pole nor any 
condition on any Pole will: (a) entitle Licensee to any damages; (b) excuse or reduce any 
obligation by Licensee to pay any License Charges or additional fees or perform any covenant 
under this Master License; or (c) constitute or be construed as a constructive termination of this 
Master License or any Wireless Permit.
8.3.
Repairs, Maintenance and Alterations to License Areas
The City may, at any time, alter, add to, repair, remove from and/or improve the License 
Area in whole or in part for any operational purpose, which includes without limitation 
maintenance and improvements in connection with street light services and compliance with 
Laws; provided (1) the City makes a good-faith effort to provide advance notice to Licensee’s 
On-Call Representative as soon as reasonably practicable; (2) the City allows Licensee’s 
representative to observe the City’s work; and (3) the City takes reasonable steps not to disrupt 
Licensee’s ordinary operations on the License Area.  The provisions in this Section 8.3 will not 
be construed to allow Licensee’s ordinary operations to impede or delay the City’s authority and 
ability to make changes to the License Areas necessary to maintain street light services.
8.4.
Emergencies
In emergencies, the City’s work will take precedence over Licensee’s operations, which 
includes without limitation any Equipment operated on the License Area, and the City may 
access the License Area in whole or in part as the City deems necessary in its sole determination 
and in accordance with this Section 8.4, whether the City has notified Licensee of such 
emergency or other exigent circumstances or not.  When safe and practicable, the City will notify 
Licensee of any emergency or other exigent circumstances that requires the City to remove or 
replace any Pole and will allow Licensee to remove its Equipment before the City removes or 
replaces the Pole; provided, however, that the City will remove the Equipment from the Pole 
when in the City’s sole determination it would (1) be unsafe to wait for Licensee to perform the 
work; or (2) otherwise threaten or compromise public safety or public services.  The City will 
remove any Equipment with reasonable care and store the Equipment for retrieval by Licensee 
and the City will provide notice as soon as reasonably practicable after such emergency, but in 
no event later than 24 hours after the emergency.  Licensee shall have the right to reinstall such 
removed Equipment or equivalent Equipment at Licensee’s sole expense on the repaired or 
replaced Pole and in accordance with Section 7 (Equipment Installation).  The City’s removal of 
Licensee’s Equipment in emergencies or other exigent circumstances will not be deemed to be a 
forcible or unlawful entry onto the License Area or any interference with Licensee’s contractual 
privilege to use the License Area.
17 of 179

--- page 18 ---
Page 12 of 33
39
107770644_2
9.
LICENSEE’S MAINTENANCE OBLIGATIONS
9.1.
Damage to Poles
9.1.1.
Notice to the City
Licensee agrees to give the City notice of the need for any repair to a Pole promptly after 
Licensee discovers any damage from any cause.  Licensee’s agreement to provide notice is not 
an assumption of liability for any life-threatening or hazardous conditions unless caused by the 
acts, omissions or negligence of Licensee or its Agents or Invitees.
9.1.2.
Damage Caused by Licensee
In the event that any use or maintenance by Licensee or its Agents or Invitees cause any 
damage to any Pole, Licensee must repair such damage within 30 days after the City provides a 
written notice to Licensee that describes such damage.  Such 30-day cure period may be 
extended to a date certain if the City agrees the cure reasonably requires more time.  In the event 
that Licensee fails to timely cure the damage, the City may repair the damage at Licensee’s 
expense.  Licensee will reimburse the City for all costs incurred to repair such damage within 30 
days after Licensee receives the City’s demand for payment, together with copies of invoices or 
other evidence to document the costs incurred.
9.1.3.
No Right to Repair
Absent notice from the City with a demand to cure any damage to a Pole, or as provided 
in Section 14.1.1 below, Licensee is not authorized to make any repairs to any Pole.  
9.2.
Equipment Maintenance
Licensee shall, at its sole cost and expense, install, maintain and promptly repair any 
damage to any Equipment installed on the License Area whenever repair or maintenance may be 
required, subject to the City’s prior approval if required under Section 7 (Equipment 
Installation).  Licensee is not required to seek the City’s prior approval for any Equipment repair, 
maintenance, replacement or other installation on the License Area when such Equipment is 
shown on the Approved Plans.  Licensee must obtain the City’s prior written approval for any 
Equipment repair, maintenance, replacement or other installation that involves larger, different or 
additional Equipment than shown on the Approved Plans.  Any work on Licensee’s Equipment 
installed on Poles that is authorized or permitted under this Section 9.2 is subject to Licensee 
obtaining any required Regulatory Approvals.
9.3.
Graffiti Abatement
Licensee’s repair and maintenance obligation includes the removal of any graffiti or 
similar vandalism from the License Area within 48 hours after the City notifies Licensee in 
writing of said graffiti or vandalism.
9.4.
Standard of Work
All work performed by or for Licensee under this Section 9.4 shall be: (1) at Licensee’s 
sole cost and expense; (2) performed only by qualified and trained persons and appropriately 
18 of 179

--- page 19 ---
Page 13 of 33
39
107770644_2
licensed contractors; (3) performed in a manner and with equipment and materials that will not 
interfere with or impair the City’s operations; (4) compliant with all applicable Laws; and (5) 
performed solely by Licensee and not by Licensee’s Invitees.
10.
LIENS
Licensee shall keep the License Area free and clear from any and all liens in connection with any 
work performed, material furnished or obligations incurred by or for Licensee.  Licensee shall 
inform each and every contractor and material supplier that provides any work, service, 
equipment or material to Licensee in any way connected with Licensee’s use of the License Area 
that the License Area is public property and is not subject to mechanics’ liens or stop notices for 
Equipment or other materials or services provided for Licensee’s Equipment.  If Licensee does 
not cause the release of lien of a mechanic’s lien or stop notice by any contractor, service 
provider or equipment or material supplier purporting to attach to the License Area or other City 
Property arising from work done by or on behalf of Licensee within 30 days after written notice 
or discovery of the lien, the City will have the right, but not the obligation, to cause the same to 
be released by any means it deems proper, including payment of the claim giving rise to such 
lien.  Licensee must reimburse the City for all expenses it incurs in connection with any such lien 
(including reasonable attorneys’ fees) within 30 days following receipt of the City’s written 
demand together with copies of invoices or other evidence to document the costs incurred.  
Licensee shall give the City at least 10 days’ prior notice of commencement of any construction 
or installation on any part of the License Area except for minor and routine repair and 
maintenance of Licensee’s Equipment.  Licensee shall not create, permit, or suffer any other 
encumbrances affecting any portion of the License Area.
11.
UTILITIES
Licensee shall be solely responsible for obtaining and maintaining electric service for the 
Equipment, including, but not limited to, making payments to electric utilities and installation of 
separate electric meters, if necessary.
12.
TAXES AND ASSESSMENTS
19 of 179

--- page 20 ---
Page 14 of 33
39
107770644_2
If City is required by law to collect any federal, state, or local tax, fee, or other 
governmental imposition (each, a “Tax”) from Licensee with respect to the transactions 
contemplated by this Master License, then City shall bill such Tax to Licensee in the manner and 
for the amount required by law, Licensee shall promptly pay such billed amount of Tax to City, 
and City shall remit such Tax to the appropriate tax authorities as required by law; provided, 
however, that City shall not bill to or otherwise attempt to collect from Licensee any Tax with 
respect to which Licensee has provided City with an exemption certificate or other reasonable 
basis for relieving City of its responsibility to collect such tax from Licensee.  Licensee shall be 
responsible for all Taxes that are assessed against or are otherwise the legal responsibility of 
Licensee with respect to itself and its property.
13.
COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS
13.1.
Compliance with Current and Future Laws
Licensee shall install, operate and maintain the Equipment, and shall perform all work in 
connection with such installation, operation and maintenance, in strict compliance with all 
applicable Laws and all conditions in any Regulatory Approvals issued in connection with the 
Equipment or its installation and operation on any Pole.  
13.2.
Licensee’s Personnel
13.2.1.
Personnel Training and Certification
Licensee shall ensure that all persons who install, operate or maintain the Equipment are 
appropriately trained and licensed by the California State Contractors Licensing Board as 
required under applicable CPUC rules and regulations.  Licensee shall ensure that such persons 
are trained in and observe all safety requirements established by the City, the CPUC and the 
California Division of Occupational Safety and Health, Department of Industrial Relations or its 
duly appointed successor agency, which includes without limitation site orientation, tag-out and 
lock-out de-energization rules, ladder and lift restrictions and track and street right-of-way safety 
requirements.
13.2.2.
Licensee’s Indemnification for Personnel Injuries
Licensee acknowledges that (1) the City has delegated to Licensee control over the 
License Area at any time in which Licensee or its Agents are installing, operating or maintaining 
the Equipment; and (2) the City is not a co-employer of any employee of Licensee or any 
employee of Licensee’s Agents.  The City shall not be liable for any Claim (defined in Section 
17 (Licensee’s Indemnification Obligations)) by Licensee’s or its Agent’s employee(s), except 
where such Claim is directly caused by the sole negligence or willful misconduct of the City.  
Licensee agrees to fully indemnify, defend and hold the City harmless in the same manner as 
provided in Section 17 (Licensee’s Indemnification Obligations) against any Claim by any 
employee of Licensee or its Agents that arises in connection with Licensee’s or its Agents’ 
activities pursuant to this License Agreement, except to the extent such Claims arise out of the 
sole negligence or willful misconduct of the City, its employees or agents.  
20 of 179

--- page 21 ---
Page 15 of 33
39
107770644_2
13.3.
Compliance with CPUC GO 95
Licensee shall conduct all activities on the License Area in accordance with CPUC 
General Order 95 and the rules and other requirements enacted by the CPUC under that General 
Order, as applicable and as amended.
13.4.
Compliance with Building and Electric Codes
Licensee shall conduct all activities on the License Area in accordance with the 
requirements of the California Building Code, the California Electric Code, National Electric 
Safety Code IEEE C2 (the “NESC”), to the extent such requirements apply to Licensee’s 
Permitted Use, and any applicable local building electrical code, as those codes exist now or may 
be amended in the future.  To the extent that CPUC General Order 95 does not address cellular 
telephone antenna installations on Poles carrying electrical lines, Licensee shall apply, if 
applicable, provisions of the NESC, with particular attention to paragraphs 224, 235C, 235F, 
238, 239 and 239H and sections 22, 41 and 44.  Where any conflict exists between the California 
Building Code, the NESC, the California Electric Code, any local code and CPUC General Order 
128, the more stringent requirements will apply, as determined by the City.
13.5.
Compliance with EMF Exposure Regulations
Licensee’s obligation to comply with all Laws includes all Laws related to maximum 
permissible exposure to EMF emissions on or about the License Area, which includes all 
applicable FCC standards, applicable to Licensee’s Equipment. Prior to submitting, or 
concurrently with, a Wireless Permit Application, Licensee must comply with the City’s 
telecommunications ordinance and Design and Engineering Standards, for each proposed Pole on 
which the Licensee desires to install or operate its Equipment In the event any subsequent EMF 
Compliance Report submitted by Licensee or other permittee determines that the EMF levels at 
the License Area exceed FCC standards for the maximum permissible exposure to EMF 
emissions, Licensee must promptly demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City compliance with 
the requirements of 47 Code of Federal Regulations Section 1.1307 or any other then-applicable 
Laws related to EMF levels from Licensee’s equipment.  
14.
DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION
14.1.
City’s Rights After Damage or Destruction
In the event the License Area in whole or in part becomes damaged due to any cause 
other than the negligence or willful misconduct of City, its Agents or Invitees, the City (1) will 
have no obligation whatsoever to repair or replace the damaged License Area or Licensee’s 
Equipment; and (2) may, in the City’s sole and absolute discretion, elect to take any of the 
following actions:
14.1.1.
Election to Repair or Replace Damaged Pole
Within 30 days after the date on which the City discovers damage or destruction of a Pole 
that was not caused by Licensee, the City will give Licensee notice of the City’s decision 
whether to repair or replace the damaged Pole and its good faith estimate of the amount of time 
the City will need to complete the work.  If the City cannot complete the work within 30 days 
after the date that the City specifies in its notice, or if the City elects not to perform the work, 
21 of 179

--- page 22 ---
Page 16 of 33
39
107770644_2
then Licensee will have the right to terminate the affected Wireless Permit on 30 days’ notice to 
the City. However, if City elects not to perform such work, Licensee may perform such work at 
its sole cost and expense, subject to City approval of Licensee’s plans and specifications and 
Licensee’s compliance with City permit requirements. In such case, the affected Wireless Permit 
will remain in full force and effect.
14.1.2.
Election to Remove Damaged Pole
If the City elects to remove, rather than repair or replace, a damaged Pole, and Licensee 
does not elect to repair the Pole at its sole cost and expense, and the City has no other viable pole 
options for relocation of the Equipment,  then the applicable Wireless Permit will automatically 
terminate on the last day of the month in which the removal occurs.
14.1.3.
Election to Remove Equipment from Damaged Pole
If the acts of third parties or an act of nature or other force majeure circumstance outside 
the control of Licensee or its Agents or Invitees destroys or damages any Pole to such an extent 
that, in the City’s reasonable determination after consultation with Licensee, the Equipment on 
the Pole cannot be operated, the City may decide to terminate the affected Wireless Permit on 30 
days’ notice to Licensee and require Licensee to remove the Equipment from the damaged Pole 
before the termination date specified in the City’s notice, provided, however such removal date 
shall not be any earlier than 60 days following the City’s notice.  Notwithstanding anything in 
this Master License or any Wireless Permit to the contrary, the City will have the right to remove 
any damaged Pole when deemed necessary, in the City’s sole determination, to protect the public 
or property from imminent (whether threatened or actual) harm.
14.2.
Licensee’s Rights upon Termination
After the City terminates a Wireless Permit pursuant to Section 14.1 (City’s Rights After 
Damage or Destruction), the City will: (1) refund any pre-paid License Charge in connection 
with the terminated Wireless Permit on a pro-rata basis determined by the number of months left 
in the current License Year at the time such termination occurs; and (2) make efforts to prioritize 
Licensee’s Wireless Permit Application for one replacement Pole.  However, nothing in this 
provision shall require the City to replace any Pole or Wireless Permit that has been terminated.
15.
CONDEMNATION
15.1.
Permanent Takings
In the event that any entity with the power to condemn permanently takes any License 
Area in whole or in part, or in the event that the City transfers any License Area in whole or in 
part to such entity in lieu of eminent domain, the following provisions will apply:
15.1.1.
Termination
Any affected Wireless Permit will automatically terminate as to the part taken or 
transferred on the date the permanent taking or transfer occurs, and the License Charge under the 
affected Wireless Permit will be ratably reduced to account for the reduction in License Area.
22 of 179

--- page 23 ---
Page 17 of 33
39
107770644_2
15.1.2.
Award
The City will be entitled to any award paid or made in connection with the taking or any 
sums paid in lieu of such taking.  Licensee will have no claim against the City for the value of 
any unexpired Term of any Wireless Permit or otherwise except that Licensee may claim any 
portion of the award that is specifically allocable to Licensee’s loss or damage to Licensee’s 
Equipment.
15.1.3.
No Statutory Right to Terminate
The parties understand, acknowledge and agree that this Section 15.1 (Permanent 
Takings) is intended to fully govern the parties’ rights and obligations in the event of a 
permanent taking.  Licensee and the City each hereby waives and releases any right to terminate 
this Master License in whole or in part under California Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1265.120 
and 1265.130 and under any similar Laws to the extent applicable to this Master License.
15.2.
Temporary Takings
Any taking that affects any License Area in whole or in part for less than 90 days will 
have no effect on the affected Wireless Permit, except that Licensee will be entitled to a pro-rata 
abatement in the applicable License Charge to the extent that such temporary taking materially 
impairs Licensee’s use of the License Area.  Furthermore, in the event that the City receives an 
award, if any, in connection with such temporary taking, Licensee will receive the portion from 
the award that represents compensation for the use or occupancy of the License Area during the 
Term but not to exceed the License Charges and additional fees payable by Licensee for the 
period of the taking, and the City will retain the balance of the award.
16.
ASSIGNMENT AND OTHER TRANSFERS
16.1.
General Restriction
Except as specifically provided in Section 16.3 (Permitted Assignments), Licensee shall not 
directly or indirectly assign its interests or rights, whether in whole or in part, in connection with 
this Master License, any Wireless Permit or the License Area without the City’s prior written 
consent, except that no such consent shall be required in the event of an assignment by Licensee 
to a “Related Party.”  For purposes of this paragraph, the term “Related Party” shall be defined 
as (a) a surviving or successor company to Licensee in the event of a merger or consolidation; 
(b) a company owned by Licensee; (c) a company that owns Licensee; or (d) a company that is 
owned by the same company as Licensee.  In clauses (b), (c) and (d), the terms “owned” and 
“owns” include direct or indirect ownership.  Notice only is required for an assignment by 
Licensee to a Related Party.  Where notice only is required, Licensee shall notify City of any 
assignment, transfer of the privileges contained in this Agreement within sixty (60) days of 
occurrence .  The City shall not unreasonably withhold, delay or condition its consent to any 
proposed Assignment; provided, however, that the parties acknowledge that the City may 
reasonably withhold its consent to any proposed Assignment at any time in which any monetary 
or other material default by Licensee under this Master License remains uncured. 
Licensor acknowledges that Licensee may enter into financing arrangements including 
promissory notes and financial and security agreements for the financing of the Licensee 
23 of 179

--- page 24 ---
Page 18 of 33
39
107770644_2
Attachments (the “Collateral”) with third party financing entities.  In connection therewith, 
Licensor (i) consents to the installation of the Collateral consistent with the other terms of this 
Agreement; (ii) disclaims any interest in the Collateral, as fixtures or otherwise; and (iii) agrees 
that the Collateral shall be exempt from execution, foreclosure, sale, levy, attachment, or distress 
for any rent due or to become due and that such Collateral may be removed at any time 
consistent with the other terms of this Agreement without recourse to legal proceedings .
16.2.
Proposed Assignment Procedures
16.2.1.
Proposed Assignment Notice
Other than with respect to a Permitted Assignment, in the event that Licensee desires to 
Assign this its interests or rights, whether in whole or in part, in connection with this Master 
License, any Wireless Permit or the License Area, Licensee shall first send written notice (the 
“Proposed Assignment Notice”) to the City, which states in detail the proposed terms and 
conditions for the Assignment and financial information sufficient to show that the proposed 
assignee (the “Proposed Assignee”) has a demonstrated ability to perform all the obligations of 
Licensee under this Master License and any Wireless Permit issued hereunder.  In addition, upon 
a written request from the City, Licensee or the Proposed Assignee shall provide additional 
information, which includes without limitation financial statements, business track records, 
references and other information about the Proposed Assignee that the City reasonably requires 
to fully evaluate Licensee’s request and render an informed decision.  In the event that Licensee 
does not provide all the such information simultaneously with the Proposed Assignment Notice, 
the Proposed Assignment Notice shall not be deemed effective until Licensee delivers all such 
information as the City may reasonably require.
16.2.2.
City Response
The City shall approve or disapprove any request for consent to an Assignment within 30 
days after the City receives a complete Proposed Assignment Notice, or 45 days after the 
deemed-effective date if Licensee delivers an incomplete Proposed Assignment Notice as 
described in Section 16.2.1 (Proposed Assignment Notice) (in either case, the “Assignment 
Response Period”).  The City shall not unreasonably withhold approval if the proposed assignee 
has a demonstrated ability to perform all the obligations of Licensee under this Master License 
and any Wireless Permit issued hereunder.  If the City fails to respond within the Assignment 
Response Period, Licensee will provide a second notice with a clear heading in bold and all 
capital letters indicating it is the second notice and if City does not respond with approval or 
written reasons for disapproval within 30 days from receipt of the second notice, the request for 
assignment shall be deemed approved.  Notwithstanding anything in this Master License or any 
Wireless Permit to the contrary, the City may, in its sole and absolute discretion, refuse consent 
to any assignment to a Proposed Assignee with (i) liquid assets or other immediately available 
funds less than Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000); (ii) any history of discrimination or other 
employment practices that conflict with the City’s non-discrimination policies; or (iii) any 
pending or past criminal convictions or civil judgements that would impugn or damage the City’s 
reputation by association with said Proposed Assignee.
24 of 179

--- page 25 ---
Page 19 of 33
39
107770644_2
16.3.
Permitted Assignments
16.3.1.
Definition
The City agrees that Licensee will be permitted to enter into an Assignment of this 
Master License and Wireless Permits issued under it (a “Permitted Assignment”), without the 
City’s prior consent but with notice to the City as provided below, to: (i) Licensee’s parent; (ii) a 
Licensee’s subsidiary; (iii) an entity that acquires all or substantially all of Licensee’s assets in 
the market in which the License Area is located (as the market is defined by the FCC under an 
order or directive of the FCC); (iv) an entity that acquires Licensee by a change of stock 
ownership or partnership interest; or (v) an entity that Controls Licensee, is Controlled by 
Licensee or that, with Licensee, is under the Common Control of a third party.
16.3.2.
Conditions
A Permitted Assignment is subject to all the following conditions: (a) the Assignee uses 
the License Area only for the Permitted Use and holds all Regulatory Approvals necessary to 
lawfully install, operate, and maintain Equipment on the License Area; (b) Licensee provides the 
City with notice 30 days before the effective date of Permitted Assignment, stating the contact 
information for the proposed Assignee and providing financial information establishing that the 
proposed Assignee has the capital and fiscal qualifications greater than or equal to Licensee’s; 
and (c) Licensee is in good standing under this Master License.
16.4.
Effect of Assignment
No Assignment by Licensee, consent to Assignment by the City, or Permitted 
Assignment under Section 16.3 (Permitted Assignments) to any Assignee or other third party 
will relieve Licensee of any obligation on its part under this Master License, until and unless the 
Assignee signs a written agreement in a form reasonably acceptable to the City to 
unconditionally assume all Licensee’s obligations under this Master License and any Wireless 
Permit issued hereunder.  Any Assignment that is not in compliance with this Section 16 will be 
void ab initio and be a material default by Licensee under this Master License without a 
requirement for notice and a right to cure.  The City’s acceptance of any License Charge, 
Additional Fee, or other payments from a proposed Assignee will not be deemed to be the City’s 
consent to such Assignment, recognition of any Assignee, or waiver of any failure of Licensee or 
other transferor to comply with this Section.
16.5.
Assumption by Transferee
Each Assignee shall assume all obligations of Licensee under this Master License and 
each assigned Wireless Permit and will be and remain liable jointly and severally with Licensee 
for all obligations to be performed by Licensee until and unless the Assignee signs a written 
agreement, in a form reasonably acceptable to the City, to unconditionally assume all Licensee’s 
obligations under this Master License and any Wireless Permit issued hereunder.  No 
Assignment will be binding on the City unless Licensee or the Assignee delivers to the City 
evidence reasonably satisfactory to the City that the Assignee has obtained all required 
Regulatory Approvals necessary to install, maintain and operate the Equipment and any other 
associated improvements or personal property, a copy of the Assignment agreement (or other 
document reasonably satisfactory to the City in the event of a Permitted Assignment under 
25 of 179

--- page 26 ---
Page 20 of 33
39
107770644_2
Section 16.3 (Permitted Assignments), and an instrument in recordable form that contains a 
covenant of assumption by such Assignee satisfactory in substance and form to the City, 
consistent with the requirements of this Article.  However, the failure or refusal of an Assignee 
to execute such instrument of assumption will not release such Assignee from its liability as set 
forth in this Section.  Except for a Permitted Assignment as provided in Section 16.3 (Permitted 
Assignments), Licensee shall reimburse the City on demand for any reasonable costs that the 
City incurs in connection with any proposed Assignment, including the costs of investigating the 
acceptability of the proposed Assignee and legal costs incurred in connection with considering 
any requested consent, which amount shall not exceed $5,000.
16.6 The Parties acknowledge that Equipment deployed by Licensee in the License 
Areas pursuant to this Agreement may be owned and/or remotely operated by third-party 
wireless carrier customer (“Carriers”) and installed and maintained by Licensee pursuant to 
existing agreements between Licensee and a Carrier.  Such Equipment shall be treated as 
Licensee’s Equipment for all purposes under this Master License and any applicable Pole 
License.  A Carrier’s ownership and/or operation of such Equipment shall not constitute an 
Assignment under this Master License, provided that  Licensee shall not actually or purport to 
sell, assign, encumber, pledge, or otherwise transfer any part of its interest in the License Area 
to a Carrier, or otherwise permit any portion of the License Area to be occupied by anyone 
other than itself.  Licensee shall remain solely responsible and liable for the performance of all 
obligations under this Master License and applicable Pole Licenses with respect to any 
Equipment owned and/or remotely operated by a Carrier.
17.
LICENSEE’S INDEMNIFICATION OBLIGATIONS
Licensee, for itself and its successors and assigns, shall indemnify, defend and hold the 
City, its officials, employees, Agents, Invitees and their respective heirs, legal representatives, 
successors and assigns (the “Indemnified Parties”), harmless from and against any and all 
liabilities, losses, costs, claims, judgments, settlements, damages, liens, fines, penalties and 
expenses, whether direct or indirect (each a “Claim”), to the extent incurred in connection with 
or arising in whole or in part from Licensee’s performance of this Master License.
18.
INSURANCE
As a condition of Wireless Permit issuance, Licensee will obtain insurance specified in 
Exhibit A to this Master License.
19.
LIMITATIONS ON THE CITY’S LIABILITY
19.1.
General Limitations on the City’s Liability
Except where otherwise provided in this Master License, the City is not responsible or 
liable to Licensee for, and Licensee hereby waives all claims against the City and its Agents and 
releases the City and its Agents from, all claims from any cause (except to the extent caused by 
the negligence or willful misconduct of the City other than Licensee or any third parties acting 
for Licensee or at Licensee’s direction), including acts or omissions of persons using the 
sidewalk or street adjoining or adjacent to or connected with the License Area; utility 
interruption; theft; burst, stopped or leaking water, gas, sewer or steam pipes; or gas, fire, oil, or 
electricity in, flood, or vehicle collision on or about the License Area or other City Property.
26 of 179

--- page 27 ---
Page 21 of 33
39
107770644_2
19.2.
Consequential Damages
Licensee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the License Charges and additional fees 
payable under this Master License do not take into account any potential liability of the City for 
consequential or incidental damages.  The City would not be willing to enter into this Master 
License or issue any Wireless Permits in the absence of a complete waiver of liability, to the 
fullest extent permitted by Law, for consequential or incidental damages due to the acts or 
omissions of the City, and Licensee expressly assumes the risk with respect thereto.  
Accordingly, without limiting any indemnification obligations of Licensee or other waivers 
contained in this Master License and as a material part of the consideration for this Master 
License, the parties agree that neither party will be liable to the other in connection with this 
Master License or any Wireless Permit for any consequential, special, indirect or incidental or 
punitive damages (including lost revenues, loss of equipment, interference, interruption or loss of 
service, or loss of data, inconvenience, disturbance, lost business, nuisance or other damages) for 
any cause of action, whether in contract, tort or otherwise, even if the party was or should have 
been aware of the possibility of these damages, whether under theory of contract, tort (including 
negligence), strict liability or otherwise.
19.3.
No Relocation Assistance
This Master License creates no right in Licensee to receive any relocation assistance or 
payment for any reason under the California Relocation Assistance Law (Cal.  Gov.  Code §§ 
7260 et seq.), the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act (42 
U.S.C. §§ 4601 et seq.) or similar Law upon any termination of occupancy except as provided in 
Section 15 (Condemnation).  To the extent that any relocation law may apply, Licensee waives, 
releases and relinquishes forever any and all claims that it may have against the City for any 
compensation from the City except as specifically provided in this Master License upon 
termination of its occupancy of all or any part of the License Area.
19.4.
Non-Liability for City Officials, Employees and Agents
No elective or appointive board, agency, member, officer, official, employee or other 
Agent of the City will be personally liable to Licensee, its successors and assigns, in the event of 
any default or breach by the City or for any amount which may become due to Licensee, its 
successors and assigns, or for any obligation of the City under this Master License.
20.
RECORDS
20.1.
Accounting Records
Licensee shall maintain throughout the Term and for at least four years after this Master 
License expires or terminates the following records in physical format at Licensee’s place of 
business within the State of California and in an electronic format: (1) site identification and 
location for all Poles under active Wireless Permits; (2) the amount and payment date for all 
License Charges paid to the City pursuant to this Master License; (3) all Regulatory Approvals 
issued in connection with the Equipment on Poles; and (4) all correspondence with the City in 
connection with any matter covered under this Master License.  The City, or its designee, will 
have the right to inspect and audit Licensee’s records at Licensee’s place of business during 
regular business hours on 10 days’ notice to Licensee.
27 of 179

--- page 28 ---
Page 22 of 33
39
107770644_2
21.
RULES AND REGULATIONS
At all times throughout the Term, Licensee shall faithfully comply with any and all 
reasonable rules, regulations and instructions that the City may from time-to-time establish 
and/or amend with respect to the License Area.
22.
SURRENDER OF LICENSE AREA
22.1.
Surrender
No later than 60 days after the expiration date of this Master License or other termination 
of this Master License or any Wireless Permit, Licensee shall, at its sole cost and expense, 
peaceably remove its Equipment from the License Area except for any other Equipment or 
improvements that the City agrees in writing to accept, repair any damages caused by the 
removal work and surrender the License Area to the City in good order and condition, normal 
wear and tear and casualty excepted, free of debris and hazards, and free and clear of all liens 
and encumbrances to the extent arising out of work done by or on behalf of Licensee.  Licensee’s 
obligations under this Section 22.1 will survive the expiration date of this Master License or 
other termination of this Master License.
23.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
23.1.
Hazardous Materials in License Area
Licensee covenants and agrees that neither Licensee nor any of its Agents or Invitees 
shall cause or permit any Hazardous Material to be brought upon, kept, used, stored, generated, 
disposed of or Released in, on, under or about the License Area or any other part of City 
Property, or transported to or from any City Property in violation of Environmental Laws, except 
that Licensee may use small quantities of Hazardous Materials as needed for routine operation, 
cleaning and maintenance of Licensee’s Equipment that are customarily used for routine 
operation, cleaning and maintenance of such equipment and so long as all such Hazardous 
Materials are contained, handled and used in compliance with Environmental Laws.  Licensee 
shall immediately notify the City if and when Licensee learns or has reason to believe any 
Release of Hazardous Material has occurred in, on, under or about the License Area or other City 
Property.
23.2.
Licensee’s Environmental Indemnity
If Licensee breaches any of its obligations contained in this Section, or if any act, 
omission, or negligence of Licensee or any of its Agents or Invitees results in any contamination 
of the License Area or other City Property, or in a Release of Hazardous Material from, on, 
about, in or beneath any part of the License Area or other City Property, or the violation of any 
Environmental Law, then Licensee, on behalf of itself and its successors and assigns, shall 
indemnify, defend and hold harmless the City, including its Agents, and their respective 
successors and assigns from and against any and all claims (including damages for decrease in 
value of the License Area or other City Property, the loss or restriction of the use of usable space 
in the License Area or other City Property and sums paid in settlement of claims, attorneys’ fees, 
consultants’ fees, and experts’ fees and related costs) arising during or after the Term of this 
Master License to the extent arising out of such Release or violation of Environmental Laws; 
28 of 179

--- page 29 ---
Page 23 of 33
39
107770644_2
provided, however, Licensee shall not be liable for any claims to the extent such Release was 
caused by the negligence or willful misconduct of the City or its Agents.  Licensee’s 
indemnification obligation includes costs incurred in connection with any activities required to 
Investigate and Remediate any Hazardous Material brought onto the License Area or other City 
Property by Licensee or any of its Agents or Invitees in violation of Law and to restore the 
License Area or other City Property to its condition prior to Licensee’s introduction of such 
Hazardous Material or to correct any violation of Environmental Laws by Licensee.  Licensee 
specifically acknowledges and agrees that it has an immediate and independent obligation to 
defend the City and the other Indemnified Parties from any claim that actually or potentially falls 
within this Indemnity provision even if the allegations supporting the claim are or may be 
groundless, fraudulent, or false, which obligation arises at the time such claim is tendered to 
Licensee by the Indemnified Party and continues until the claim is finally resolved, or it is 
determined that this Indemnity provision does not apply.  Without limiting the foregoing, if 
Licensee or any of its Agents or Invitees causes the Release of any Hazardous Material on, 
about, in, or beneath the License Area or other City Property, then in any such event Licensee 
shall, immediately, at no expense to any Indemnified Party, take any and all necessary actions to 
return the License Area or other City Property, as applicable, to the condition existing prior to 
the Release of any such Hazardous Materials on the License Area or other City Property or 
otherwise abate the Release in accordance with all Environmental Laws, except to the extent 
such Release was caused by the negligence or willful misconduct of the City or its Agents.  
Licensee shall afford the City a full opportunity to participate in any discussions with Regulatory 
Agencies regarding any settlement agreement, cleanup or abatement agreement, consent decree 
or other compromise or proceeding involving Hazardous Material.
24.
DEFAULT
24.1.
Events of Default by Licensee
Any of the following will constitute an event of default under this Master License and 
any Wireless Permits issued under it: (1) Licensee fails to pay any License Charge or additional 
fees as and when due if the failure continues for 30 days after notice from the City; (2) Licensee 
fails to perform or comply with any other material obligation or representation made under this 
Master License, if the failure continues for 30 days after the date of notice from the City, or, if 
such default is not capable of cure within the 30- day period, Licensee fails to promptly 
undertake action to cure such default within such 30-day period and thereafter fails to use its best 
efforts to complete such cure within 60 days after the City’s notice; (3) Licensee, except where 
otherwise permitted under this Master License, removes its Equipment or abandons the License 
Area for a continuous period of more than 60 days, such that the License Area is no longer being 
used for the Permitted Use; or (4) any of the following occurs: (i) the appointment of a receiver 
due to Licensee’s insolvency to take possession of all or substantially all of the assets of 
Licensee; (ii) an assignment by Licensee for the benefit of creditors; or (iii) any action taken by 
or against Licensee under any insolvency, bankruptcy, reorganization, moratorium, or other 
debtor relief Laws, if any such receiver, assignment, or action is not released, discharged, 
dismissed, or vacated within 60 days.
29 of 179

--- page 30 ---
Page 24 of 33
39
107770644_2
24.2.
City’s Remedies
In addition to all other rights and remedies available to the City at law or in equity, the 
City will have the following remedies following the occurrence of an event of default by 
Licensee.
24.2.1.
License Continuation
Without prejudice to its right to other remedies, the City may continue this Master 
License and applicable Wireless Permits in effect, with the right to enforce all of its rights and 
remedies, including the right to payment of License Charges, additional fees, and other charges 
as they become due.
24.2.2.
Wireless Permit Termination
If a default specific to one or more Wireless Permits is not cured by Licensee within the 
applicable cure period, the City may terminate each Wireless Permit in default.
24.2.3.
Master License Termination
If Licensee’s default is of such a serious nature in the City’s reasonable judgment that the 
default threatens public health or safety on a majority of the Poles licensed to Licensee, and the 
default or threatened danger to the public is likely to occur again in the future such that the City’s 
Poles are no longer appropriate support structures for the Equipment or the Permitted Use, the 
City may terminate this Master License in whole or in part.  Examples of reasons for termination 
may include, but are not limited to, malfunctions in the City’s streetlights caused by or 
attributable to the Equipment and/or structural damage caused to the Poles such that the Poles 
would need to be replaced to be deemed safe.  Termination of this Master License in whole will 
terminate all Wireless Permits issued under it automatically and without the need for any further 
action by the City. In either case, the City will deliver written notice to Licensee providing 30 
days’ notice of termination and specify the reason or reasons for the termination and whether the 
termination affects the entire Master License or only certain Wireless Permits in the notice. 
Licensee shall remove its Equipment from any affected Pole in compliance with Section 22 
above. The City will have the right to make any terminated portion of the License Area available 
for license to other parties as of the effective date of the termination, even if Licensee’s 
Equipment is still on the Pole.
24.3.
Licensee’s Remedies
Licensee’s sole remedy for the City’s breach or threatened breach of this Master License 
or any Wireless Permit issued under it will be an action for damages, subject to Section 19 
(Limitations on the City’s Liability), and except as otherwise stated in this Master License.
24.4.
Cumulative Rights and Remedies
All rights and remedies under this Master License are cumulative, except as otherwise 
provided.
30 of 179

--- page 31 ---
Page 25 of 33
39
107770644_2
25.
TERMINATION
25.1.
Licensee’s Rights
25.1.1.
Master License and Wireless Permit Termination Rights
Licensee may, in Licensee’s sole discretion, terminate this Master License or any 
Wireless Permit on  90 days’ written notice to the City.  In addition, Licensee may terminate this 
Master License on 30 days’ written notice after any uncured default of this Master License by the 
City, after all applicable cure periods have expired.
25.1.2.
Termination Rights after Pole Replacement
In the event that the City exercises its absolute right to replace or relocate any Pole, the 
City shall make a reasonable effort to provide Licensee with at least 60 days’ notice.  The City’s 
failure to provide at least 60 days’ notice prior to any Pole replacement shall not affect the City’s 
rights under this Master License.  Within 90 days after Licensee receives notice from the City, 
Licensee may elect to either (1) install Licensee’s Equipment on the replacement or relocated 
Pole at Licensee’s sole cost and expense or (2) terminate the applicable Wireless Permit as to the 
replacement or relocated Pole.
25.2.
City’s Absolute Right to Terminate Wireless Permits
The City has the absolute right to terminate any Wireless Permit on 30 days’ written 
notice to Licensee when the City determines, in the City’s sole discretion, that Licensee’s 
continued use of the License Area materially and adversely affects or threatens public health and 
safety, constitutes a nuisance, or materially interferes with the City’s municipal functions.
25.3.
Licensee’s Rights after Termination
In the event that the City terminates any Wireless Permit for reasons unrelated to 
Licensee’s failure to perform its obligations under this Master License, the City shall refund any 
pre-paid Licensee Charge on a pro-rata basis, and Licensee shall not have any further liability for 
the License Charge.  In addition, the City shall prioritize Licensee’s Wireless Permit Application 
for any Wireless Permit to replace the terminated Wireless Permit; provided, however, that (1) 
the City shall prioritize only as many Wireless Permit Applications as Wireless Permits 
terminated by the City and (2) the City’s prioritization will not affect Licensee’s obligations 
under this Master License.
26.
INTERFERENCE
26.1.
Obligation Not to Cause Interference
Licensee will not operate or maintain its Equipment in a manner that interferes with or 
impairs other communication (radio, telephone and other transmission or reception) or computer 
equipment lawfully used by the City or any of its Agents and that existed on the Commencement 
Date of the Wireless Permit associated with the Equipment causing interference.  Such 
interference will be an event of default under this Master License by Licensee, and upon notice 
from the City, Licensee shall be responsible for eliminating such interference promptly and at no 
cost to the City.  Licensee will be required to use its best efforts to remedy and cure such 
31 of 179

--- page 32 ---
Page 26 of 33
39
107770644_2
interference with or impairment of City operations.  If Licensee does not cure the default 
promptly, the parties acknowledge that continuing interference may cause irreparable injury and, 
therefore, the City will have the right to bring an action against Licensee to enjoin such 
interference or to terminate the Wireless Permit where the Equipment is causing interference or 
impairment, at the City’s election.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Master License, 
City agrees that City will use reasonable efforts to install, or allow City Invitees to install, only 
such equipment that is of the type and frequency which will not cause interference to the 
Equipment actually installed by Licensee.  In the event that Licensee discovers any such 
interference caused by the City or a City Invitee, the City shall reasonably cooperate with 
Licensee to identify the source and mitigate the interference; provided, however, that the City’s 
cooperation shall not obligate the City to change, alter or power off any City-owned or controlled 
equipment used for public health and safety or other municipal functions, unless such equipment 
is malfunctioning.  The parties acknowledge that the Licensee possesses technical expertise that 
puts Licensee in the best position to identify and mitigate interference sources, and Licensee 
shall be primarily responsible for identification and mitigation work.
26.2.
Impairment Caused by Change in City Use
Subject to the City’s obligations under of this Master License, if any change in the nature 
of the City’s use of the License Area during the Term results in measurable material adverse 
impairment to Licensee’s normal operation of its Equipment making it necessary to alter the 
Equipment to mitigate the adverse effect, Licensee shall notify the City and provide evidence of 
the claimed impairment.  Upon receipt of such notice, the City will have the right to make its 
own reasonable determination and, if it agrees with Licensee, investigate whether it can 
reasonably and economically mitigate that interference.  The City will provide notice to Licensee 
of the City’s determination within 15 days of receiving Licensee’s notice hereunder.
If the City determines in its reasonable discretion that mitigation is feasible and can be 
achieved for a reasonable cost in the City’s reasonable judgment, the City’s notice will specify 
when the City will mitigate the adverse effect.  The City’s mitigation will effect a cure, and the 
City will not be liable to Licensee in any other way or be required to take any other measures 
with respect to the Equipment.
If the City determines in its reasonable discretion that mitigation is not feasible or cannot 
be achieved for a reasonable cost in the City’s reasonable judgment, Licensee may elect either to: 
(1) terminate the Wireless Permit as to the affected City Pole and receive a ratable reduction in 
the License Charge; or (2) take steps itself at its own cost to mitigate the adverse effect and 
continue to operate the Equipment on the City Pole, and setoff the cost of mitigating the adverse 
effect against the License Charge for the immediately following year under the affected Wireless 
Permit.
Licensee agrees that the City’s temporary and partial abatement or waiver of the License 
Charge under this Section 26.2 will be the only compensation due to Licensee for costs incurred 
or otherwise arising from the adverse effect as liquidated damages fully compensating Licensee 
for all claims that may arise or be related to the adverse effects.  Under no circumstances may the 
City be required to alter its operations at the identified City Pole or provide a replacement City 
Pole to Licensee.
32 of 179

--- page 33 ---
Page 27 of 33
39
107770644_2
26.3.
Impairment Caused by City Access
Licensee agrees that it will not be entitled to any abatement of License Charges if the 
City exercises its rights of access under Section 8.1 (City’s Access to License Areas) unless the 
City’s activities cause Licensee to be unable to operate Equipment on the License Area for its 
permitted use for a period of more than 24 hours, in which case, subject to proof, License 
Charges will be abated ratably for the entire period that Licensee is unable to operate any 
Equipment on any affected City Pole.
27.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
27.1.
Notices
Except as may be specifically provided otherwise in this Master License, all notices, 
demands or other correspondence required to be given under this Master License must written 
and delivered through (1) an established national courier service that maintains delivery records 
and confirmations; (2) hand delivery; or (3) certified or registered U.S.  Mail with prepaid 
postage and return receipt requested, and addressed as follows:
To CITY:
City of San Mateo
Department of Public Works
Attn:  Director of Public Works
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403
(650) 522-7300
To LICENSEE:
ExteNet Systems (Calfornia) LLC
3030 Warrenville Road, Suite 340
Lisle, Illinois 60532
Attn: CFO
With a copy to General Counsel at same address
All notices under this Master License will be deemed to have been delivered: (i) five days 
after deposit if delivered by first class mail; (ii) two days after deposit if delivered by certified 
mail; (iii) the date delivery is made by personal delivery or overnight delivery; or (iv) the date an 
attempt to make delivery fails because a party has failed to provide notice of a change of address 
or refuses to accept delivery.  Telephone, facsimile and email information are provided for 
convenience and for couriers who may require such information, and any notice given solely 
through electronic means will not be deemed to be effective notice.  Any copies required to be 
given constitute an administrative step and not actual notice.  The parties may change the notice 
addresses above from time-to- time through written notice to the addresses above or the then-
current notice address.
27.2.
Waiver; No Implied Waivers
No failure by either party to insist upon the strict performance of any obligation of the 
other under this Master License or to exercise any right, power or remedy arising out of a breach 
thereof, irrespective of the length of time for which such failure continues, will constitute a 
waiver of such breach.  No acceptance by the City or any of its Agents of full or partial payment 
33 of 179

--- page 34 ---
Page 28 of 33
39
107770644_2
of License Charges or additional fees during the continuance of any such breach will constitute a 
waiver of such breach or of the City’s right to demand material compliance with such term, 
covenant or condition, or operate as a waiver of any requirement of this Master License.  No 
express waiver by either party of any default or the performance of any provision hereof will 
affect any other default or performance, or cover any other period of time, other than the default, 
performance or period of time specified in such express waiver.  One or more waivers of a 
default or the performance of any provision hereof by either party will not be deemed to be a 
waiver of a subsequent default or performance.  The City’s consent given in any instance under 
the terms of this Master License will not relieve Licensee of any obligation to secure the City’s 
consent in any other or future instance under the terms of this Master License.
27.3.
Amendments
No part of this Master License (including all Wireless Permits) may be changed, waived, 
discharged or terminated orally, nor may any breach thereof be waived, altered or modified, 
except by a written instrument signed by both parties.
27.4.
Interpretation
The following rules of interpretation apply to this Master License.
27.4.1.
General
Whenever required by the context, the singular includes the plural and vice versa; the 
masculine gender includes the feminine or neuter genders and vice versa; and defined terms 
encompass all correlating forms of the terms (e.g., the definition of “indemnify” applies to 
“indemnity,” “indemnification,” etc.).
27.4.2.
Joint and Several Liability
In the event that the City provides consent, which the City may withhold for any or no 
reason, to enter into this Master License with more than one Licensee, the obligations and 
liabilities under this Master License imposed on Licensee will be joint and several among them.
27.4.3.
Captions
The captions preceding the sections of this Master License and in the table of contents, if 
any, have been inserted for convenience of reference and such captions in no way define or limit 
the scope or intent of any provision of this Master License.
27.4.4.
City Actions
All approvals, consents or other determinations permitted or required by the City under 
this Master License will be made by or through the Public Works Director or his or her designee, 
unless otherwise provided in this Master License or by the City Charter or any City ordinance.
27.4.5.
Words of Inclusion
The use of the term “including,” “such as,” or words of similar import when following 
any general or specific term, statement or matter may not be construed to limit the term, 
34 of 179

--- page 35 ---
Page 29 of 33
39
107770644_2
statement or matter to the stated terms, statements or matters, whether or not language of non-
limitation, such as “including, but not limited to” and “including without limitation” are used.  
Rather, the stated term, statement or matter will be interpreted to refer to all other items or 
matters that could reasonably fall within the broadest scope of the term, statement or matter.
27.4.6.
Laws
References to all “Laws,” including specific statutes, relating to the rights and obligations 
of either party mean the Laws in effect on the Effective Date and as they are amended, replaced, 
supplemented, clarified, corrected or superseded at any time while any obligations under this 
Master License or any Wireless Permit are outstanding, whether or not foreseen or contemplated 
by the parties. Licensee shall comply with all Laws with respect to Licensee’s Permitted 
Use.  This Master License does not limit any rights Licensee may have in accordance with Laws 
to install its own poles in the right of way or to attach Licensee’s equipment to third-party poles 
located in the right of way. This Master License shall in no way limit or waive either party’s 
present or future rights under Laws. If, after the date of this Master License, the rights or 
obligations of either Party are materially preempted or superseded by changes in Laws, the 
parties agree to amend the Master License to reflect the change in Laws.
27.5.
Successors and Assigns
The terms, covenants and conditions contained in this Master License bind and inure to 
the benefit of the City and Licensee and, except as otherwise provided herein, their successors 
and assigns.
27.6.
Brokers
Neither party has had any contact or dealings regarding the license of the License Area, 
or any communication in connection therewith, through any licensed real estate broker or other 
person who could claim a right to a commission or finder’s fee in connection with the license 
contemplated herein (“Broker”), whose commission, if any is due, is to be paid pursuant to a 
separate written agreement between such Broker and the party through which such Broker 
contracted.  In the event that any Broker claiming to be retained by Licensee perfects a claim for 
a commission or finder’s fee based upon any such contact, dealings or communication, Licensee 
shall indemnify the City from all Claims brought by the Broker.  This Section 27.6 will survive 
expiration or earlier termination of this Master License.
27.7.
Severability
If any provision of this Master License or the application thereof to any person, entity or 
circumstance is invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Master License, or the application 
of such provision to persons, entities or circumstances other than those as to which it is invalid or 
unenforceable, will not be affected thereby, and each provision of this Master License will be 
valid and be enforced to the full extent permitted by Law. If any provision in this Master License 
is found to be invalid, illegal or otherwise unenforceable, the parties shall negotiate in good faith 
to modify this Master License so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as 
possible in a mutually acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated hereby be 
consummated as originally intended by the parties.
35 of 179

--- page 36 ---
Page 30 of 33
39
107770644_2
27.8.
Governing Law; Venue
This Master License must be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the 
State of California.  This Master License is made, entered and will be performed in the City of 
San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California.  Any action concerning this Master 
License must be brought and heard in Superior Court for the County of San Mateo.
27.9.
Time for Performance
Provisions in this Master License relating to number of days mean calendar days, unless 
otherwise specified.  “Business day” means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or a bank or 
City holiday.  If the last day of any period to give notice, reply to a notice, or to undertake any 
other action occurs on a day that is not a business day, then the last day for undertaking the 
action or giving or replying to the notice will be the next succeeding business day.  Time is of the 
essence with respect to all provisions of this Master License in which a definite time for 
performance is specified.
27.10. Survival
Expiration or earlier termination of this Master License will not affect the right of either 
party to enforce any and all indemnities and representations and warranties given or made to the 
other party under this Master License, or any provision of this Master License that expressly 
survives termination.
27.11. Recording
Licensee acknowledges and agrees that Licensee shall not have the right to record this 
Master License, any Wireless Permit or any memorandum or short form of any of them in the 
Official Records of the County of San Mateo.
27.12. Intentionally Omitted.
27.13. Attachments and Exhibits. 
All attachments and exhibits to this Master License are hereby made a part hereof as if 
fully set out herein.
27.14. Approval Authority
Each person signing this Master License and any Wireless Permit on behalf of the City 
and Licensee, respectively, warrants and represents that: (i) he or she has the full right, power 
and capacity to act on behalf of the City and Licensee, respectively, and has the authority to bind 
the City and Licensee, respectively, to the performance of its obligations under those agreements 
without the subsequent approval or consent of any other person or entity; (ii) each of the City 
and Licensee, respectively, is a duly authorized and existing entity; (iii) Licensee is qualified to 
do business in California; and each of the City and Licensee, respectively, has full right and 
authority to enter into this Master License and Wireless Permits.  
[END OF MASTER LICENSE — SIGNATURES APPEAR ON NEXT PAGE]
36 of 179

--- page 37 ---
Page 31 of 33
39
107770644_2
37 of 179

--- page 38 ---
Page 32 of 33
39
107770644_2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and GTE Mobilnet of California Limited 
Partnership, dba Verizon Wireless have caused this Master License to be executed as of the 
Effective Date by their duly authorized representatives, and hereto have accepted the terms, 
conditions, and provisions set forth above.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
LICENSEE
ExteNet Systems (California) LLC
By: 
Drew Corbett 
City Manager  
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Caio Arellano  
Assistant City Attorney
38 of 179

--- page 39 ---
Page 33 of 33
39
107770644_2
EXHIBIT A
Insurance Requirements for Licensees
Licensee shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract insurance against claims for 
injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise from or in connection with the 
Licensee’s operation and use of the leased premises.  The cost of such insurance shall be borne 
by the Licensee.
SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1.
Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office Form CG 00 
01 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed 
operations, property damage, bodily injury and personal & advertising injury with 
limits  of $2,000,000 per occurrence and $4,000,000 general aggregate.  If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply 
separately to this project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general 
aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2.
Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with 
Statutory Limits, and Employer’s Liability Insurance with limits of no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease/disease per employee/policy 
limit-disease.  (This applies to Licensees with employees).
3.
Property insurance against all risks of loss to any tenant improvements or betterments, 
at full replacement cost with no coinsurance penalty provision.
Other Insurance Provisions:
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional 
insureds as their interests may appear under this Master License on the CGL policy with respect 
to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the Licensee including 
materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations.  
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the Licensee’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance coverage as respects the City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers.  Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its officers, officials, employees, or 
volunteers shall be excess of the Licensee’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
39 of 179

--- page 40 ---
Page 34 of 33
39
107770644_2
Notice of Cancellation
Upon notice from Licensee’s insurers, Licensee shall use commercially reasonable efforts to 
provide thirty (30) days advance written notice to City of cancellation or non-renewal.
Waiver of Subrogation
Licensee hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
Licensee may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any worker’s compensation or 
employer’s liability loss under such insurance.  Licensee agrees to obtain any endorsement that 
may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of 
whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer.
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current 
A.M.  Best’s rating of no less than A-: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City.
Self-Insured Retentions
Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City.  At the option of the City, 
either:  the Licensee shall obtain coverage to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions as 
respects the City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; or the Licensee shall provide 
a financial guarantee satisfactory to the City guaranteeing payment of losses and related 
investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses.  
Verification of Coverage
Licensee shall furnish the City with original Certificates of Insurance to City before work begins.  
However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive 
the Licensee’s obligation to provide them. We strongly recommend obtaining a copy of the 
policy declarations and endorsement page (make this a requirement in your Contract) to facilitate 
verification of coverages and spot any undesirable policy limitations or exclusions
Special Risks or Circumstances
The limits of liability may be increased or decreased by mutual consent of the parties, which 
consent will not be unreasonably withheld by either party, in the event of any factors or 
occurrences, including substantial increases in the level of jury verdicts or judgments or the 
passage of state, federal, or other governmental compensation plans, or laws that would 
materially increase or decrease City’s exposure to risk.
40 of 179

--- page 41 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
File ID: 20-0005
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Brad B. Underwood, Public Works Director
PREPARED BY:
Sarah Scheidt, Regulatory Compliance Manager
MEETING DATE:
March 11, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Evaluation of Potential Trash Control Measures 
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an update on potential trash control measures and provide input on recommended approaches to achieve 
required trash reductions.
BACKGROUND:
The San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board issued the Municipal Regional Permit (MRP) in an effort to 
reduce pollution from stormwater discharges into creeks and the San Francisco Bay.  The MRP requires the City to plan for 
and demonstrate “no adverse impacts” (i.e., 100% reduction) of trash discharged to receiving water bodies by July 1, 2022.  
The City demonstrated a reduction of 94% in its fiscal year (FY) 2018-19 Annual Report and thereby achieved the 
mandatory 80% trash load reduction deadline of July 1, 2019.  
The City accomplished the reported trash reduction using source controls (e.g., plastic bag product bans), full trash capture 
systems, creek and shoreline cleanups, and other trash controls.  Trash reduction is measured using credits for source 
control and shoreline cleanups, direct calculation for full capture systems, and on-land visual trash assessments (OVTAs) 
following approved assessment methodologies to measure other controls.  However, there is uncertainty regarding 
whether credits associated with source controls will continue to be allowed in future MRPs and whether other actions 
implemented by the City will continue to achieve the trash load reductions.
The City and its consultant, EOA, Inc., recently completed a draft Stormwater Trash Control Measures Cost-Benefit 
Evaluation (Study) to identify the costs, benefits, and risks of a range of new and enhanced trash control measures.  There 
are several combinations of trash control implementation scenarios that are anticipated to result in 100% trash reduction 
if fully implemented. The following new and enhanced control measures were evaluated:
   

Publicly owned large full capture systems,

Full capture requirement for private properties,

Publicly owned small full capture systems, 

Enhanced municipal trash inspection program,

Curb-inlet screens on inlets in the public right of way,

Enhanced municipal street sweeping, 

Expanded on-land cleanups,

Enhanced city-wide public education and outreach program, and

Municipal ordinance – single-use plastic food service ware.
41 of 179

--- page 42 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Future reductions will be accomplished with a combination of full capture and enhancements of other control measures. 
Currently, the Poplar/Golf Course large capture device CIP is funded and will begin design this fiscal year.  The ongoing 
North Shoreview Flood Improvement project includes planned installation of a large capture system at the Coyote Point 
Pump Station.  Public Works recently began to require newly developed properties and properties undergoing significant 
redevelopment to install full capture systems within the property.  
In addition to the planned full capture systems mentioned above, there are a range of approaches between the City 
assuming full responsibility for trash capture to requiring all individual properties to install trash capture devices. Based on 
the evaluation, the recommended approach is:

Focused installation of publicly owned small trash capture in selected, high-effectiveness areas

Enhanced commercial property inspection program

Enhanced public education and outreach campaign

Modification of enforcement policy to allow for enforcement against non-compliant, trash-generating properties
Small capture systems added at appropriate locations in the public right of way would assist to achieve compliance with 
the trash reduction requirements.  However, while these systems may be feasible to construct, they are expensive to 
maintain and may not be the most cost-effective way of achieving full compliance.  
An enhanced trash inspection program would include conducting targeted trash inspections and enforcement at existing, 
and at additional businesses and other private properties that have moderate or high trash levels that are not currently 
inspected for stormwater compliance. The enhanced inspection program would be implemented in conjunction with 
additional public education and outreach regarding compliance requirements. 
An enhanced public education and outreach campaign is an existing council priority and is currently being developed.  
Goals of the outreach campaign will be to raise general awareness and to promote on-land cleanup through existing Team 
Up to Clean Up and Adopt-a-Drain programs.  Expanded on-land cleanups could also potentially be accomplished as part of 
the new field maintenance commercial district cleaning service program.
As appropriate and if needed to achieve the trash capture requirements, the enforcement policy could be modified and 
could include authority to issue violations or other administrative penalties for non-compliance potentially up to requiring 
installation and maintenance of trash full capture system(s) in their inlets.    
BUDGET IMPACT:
Publicly owned full capture projects are currently funded by existing solid waste program revenues and grant funds from 
Caltrans.  Long-term operation and maintenance of these devices do not have an existing dedicated funding source.  A 
funding analysis is currently underway to identify potential sources of funding for storm system activities, including trash 
capture operations and maintenance.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(2), this project is not a ‘project’ subject to CEQA as it is a continuing 
administrative or maintenance activity such as the purchase of supplies, personnel-related action, or general policy and 
procedure making.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – DRAFT Stormwater Trash Control Measures Cost-Benefit Evaluation Technical Memo
STAFF CONTACT
Sarah Scheidt, Regulatory Compliance Manager
42 of 179

--- page 43 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
sscheidt@cityofsanmateo.org
(650)522-7385
Matthew Zucca, Public Works Deputy Director 
mzucca@cityofsanmateo.org
(650)522-7308
43 of 179

--- page 44 ---
STORMWATER TRASH CONTROL MEASURES 
COST-BENEFIT EVALUATION 
The Costs of Complying with 100% Trash Reduction 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Technical Memorandum 
DRAFT 
Prepared for: 
City of San Mateo 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepared by: 
 
 
1410 Jackson Street 
 
 
Oakland, CA 94602 
 
 
 
 
 
December 2019 
44 of 179

--- page 45 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
January 2019 
ii 
 
 
Table of Contents 
 
1. 
Introduction .............................................................................................................. 1 
1.1 
Purpose ....................................................................................................................................... 1 
1.2 
Background ................................................................................................................................. 1 
2. 
Potential New or Enhanced Trash Control Measures ..................................................... 4 
2.1 
Publicly-Owned Large Full Capture Systems ............................................................................... 5 
2.2 
Publicly-Owned Small Full Capture Systems ............................................................................. 10 
2.3 
Full Capture Requirement for (Applicable) Private Properties .................................................. 14 
2.4 
Enhanced Municipal Trash Inspection Program ........................................................................ 18 
2.5 
Curb-Inlet Screens on Inlets in the Public ROW ........................................................................ 22 
2.6 
Enhanced Municipal Street Sweeping ....................................................................................... 26 
2.7 
Expanded On-land Cleanups ..................................................................................................... 31 
2.8 
Enhanced City-wide Public Education and Outreach Program .................................................. 33 
2.9 
Municipal Ordinance – Single-use Plastic Food Service Ware ................................................... 35 
2.10 Summary of Potential New or Enhanced Source Controls ........................................................ 37 
3. 
Trash Control Measure Implementation Scenarios ....................................................... 38 
3.1 
Scenario 0: No New Actions ...................................................................................................... 39 
3.2 
Scenario 1a: Full Capture - Large and Small Systems ................................................................ 39 
3.3 
Scenario 1b: Full Capture - All Small Systems ............................................................................ 40 
3.4 
Scenario 2a: Full Capture Systems and Enhanced Trash Inspections ........................................ 41 
3.5 
Scenario 2b: Large Full Capture System & Multiple Institutional/Source Controls ................... 41 
3.6 
Scenario 2c: Large Full Capture System & Multiple Institutional/Source Controls .................... 43 
3.7 
Scenario 2d: Small Full Capture Systems & Enhanced Trash Inspection Program on Private 
Properties ........................................................................................................................................... 44 
3.8 
Scenario 2e: Multiple Institutional/Source Controls in the Public ROW & Full Capture Systems 
on Private Properties .......................................................................................................................... 45 
3.9 
Scenario 3: Only Institutional/Source Controls ......................................................................... 46 
3.10 Comparison of Trash Control Measure Implementation Scenarios .......................................... 48 
4. 
Conclusions .............................................................................................................. 48 
5. 
References ............................................................................................................... 49 
 
 
 
45 of 179

--- page 46 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
January 2019 
iii 
 
 
Figures 
FIGURE 1. BASELINE TRASH GENERATING AREAS, AREAS ADDRESSED BY OPERATIONAL AND PLANNED TRASH FULL 
CAPTURE SYSTEMS, AND OVTA RESULTS (2017-19) IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO. .................................................. 2 
FIGURE 2. LOCATIONS AND CATCHMENTS FOR POTENTIAL LARGE FULL TRASH CAPTURE SYSTEMS IN THE CITY OF 
SAN MATEO. ................................................................................................................................................................. 6 
FIGURE 3. LOCATION AND CATCHMENT OF THE POTENTIAL POPLAR-GOLF COURSE LARGE FULL CAPTURE SYSTEM. . 7 
FIGURE 4. LOCATIONS OF 619 POTENTIAL SMALL (INLET-BASED) FULL TRASH CAPTURE SYSTEMS IN THE CITY OF SAN 
MATEO. ....................................................................................................................................................................... 11 
FIGURE 5. PRIVATE PROPERTIES IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO THAT COULD BE CONSIDERED FOR THE FULL CAPTURE 
TREATMENT REQUIREMENT. .................................................................................................................................... 15 
FIGURE 6. PRIVATE PROPERTIES THAT GENERATE MODERATE OR HIGH TRASH LEVELS AND THEREFORE COULD BE 
INCLUDED IN A NEW ENHANCED TRASH INSPECTION PROGRAM IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO. ......................... 19 
FIGURE 7. LOCATIONS OF 753 POTENTIAL CURB-INLET SCREENS IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO. ................................... 23 
FIGURE 8. STREET SEGMENTS WHERE SWEEPING ENHANCEMENTS WOULD BE IMPLEMENTED BY THE CITY OF SAN 
MATEO. ....................................................................................................................................................................... 28 
Tables 
TABLE 1. CITY OF SAN MATEO BASELINE TRASH GENERATION LEVELS. ............................................................................ 1 
TABLE 2. TRASH LOAD REDUCTIONS REPORTED BY THE CITY OF SAN MATEO IN FY 2018-19. ........................................ 3 
TABLE 3 PRELIMINARY PLANNING-LEVEL COSTS ESTIMATES FOR THE LARGE FULL CAPTURE SYSTEM AT POPLAR-
GOLF COURSE. .............................................................................................................................................................. 8 
TABLE 5. PRELIMINARY PLANNING-LEVEL COSTS ESTIMATES FOR FULL CAPTURE REQUIREMENT FOR PRIVATE 
PROPERTIES. ............................................................................................................................................................... 16 
TABLE 6. PRELIMINARY PLANNING-LEVEL COSTS ESTIMATES FOR CREATING AND IMPLEMENTING AN ENHANCED 
MUNICIPAL TRASH INSPECTION PROGRAM. ............................................................................................................ 20 
TABLE 7. PRELIMINARY PLANNING-LEVEL COSTS ESTIMATES FOR THE INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF 753 
CURB-INLET SCREENS. ............................................................................................................................................... 24 
TABLE 8. SUMMARY OF THE CURRENT AND POTENTIAL ENHANCEMENTS TO THE MUNICIPAL STREET SWEEPING 
PROGRAM IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO. .................................................................................................................. 27 
TABLE 9. PRELIMINARY PLANNING-LEVEL COSTS ESTIMATES FOR AN IMPLEMENTING AN ENHANCED MUNICIPAL 
STREET SWEEPING PROGRAM. ................................................................................................................................. 29 
TABLE 10. PRELIMINARY PLANNING-LEVEL COSTS ESTIMATES FOR IMPLEMENTING EXPANDED ON-LAND CLEANUPS.
 .................................................................................................................................................................................... 32 
TABLE 11. PRELIMINARY PLANNING-LEVEL COSTS ESTIMATES FOR AN ENHANCED CITY-WIDE PUBLIC EDUCATION 
AND OUTREACH PROGRAM ...................................................................................................................................... 34 
TABLE 12. PRELIMINARY PLANNING-LEVEL COSTS ESTIMATES FOR ADOPTING AND IMPLEMENTING A SINGLE-USE 
PLASTIC FOOD SERVICE WARE ORDINANCE. ............................................................................................................ 36 
TABLE 13. SUMMARY OF THE ESTIMATED COSTS AND TRASH REDUCTION BENEFITS OF IMPLEMENTING POTENTIAL 
NEW OR ENHANCED TRASH CONTROL MEASURES. ................................................................................................ 37 
TABLE 14. IMPLEMENTATION SCENARIOS FOR NEW/ENHANCED TRASH CONTROL MEASURE EVALUATED IN THE CITY 
OF SAN MATEO. ......................................................................................................................................................... 38 
TABLE 15. PRELIMINARY PLANNING LEVEL COST ESTIMATES FOR IMPLEMENTING TRASH CONTROL MEASURE 
SCENARIO 1A. ............................................................................................................................................................. 40 
46 of 179

--- page 47 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
January 2019 
iv 
 
 
TABLE 16. PRELIMINARY PLANNING LEVEL COST ESTIMATES FOR IMPLEMENTING TRASH CONTROL MEASURE 
SCENARIO 1B. ............................................................................................................................................................. 40 
TABLE 17. PRELIMINARY PLANNING LEVEL COST ESTIMATES FOR IMPLEMENTING TRASH CONTROL MEASURE 
SCENARIO 2A. ............................................................................................................................................................. 41 
TABLE 18. PRELIMINARY PLANNING LEVEL COST ESTIMATES FOR IMPLEMENTING TRASH CONTROL MEASURE 
SCENARIO 2B. ............................................................................................................................................................. 42 
TABLE 19. PRELIMINARY PLANNING LEVEL COST ESTIMATES FOR IMPLEMENTING TRASH CONTROL MEASURE 
SCENARIO 2C. ............................................................................................................................................................. 44 
TABLE 20. PRELIMINARY PLANNING LEVEL COST ESTIMATES FOR IMPLEMENTING TRASH CONTROL MEASURE 
SCENARIO 2D. ............................................................................................................................................................. 45 
TABLE 21. PRELIMINARY PLANNING LEVEL COST ESTIMATES FOR IMPLEMENTING TRASH CONTROL MEASURE 
SCENARIO 2E. ............................................................................................................................................................. 46 
TABLE 22. PRELIMINARY PLANNING LEVEL COST ESTIMATES FOR IMPLEMENTING TRASH CONTROL MEASURE 
SCENARIO 3. ............................................................................................................................................................... 47 
TABLE 23. SUMMARY TABLE OF TRASH CONTROL MEASURE IMPLEMENTATION SCENARIO COSTS. ........................... 48 
 
Appendices 
APPENDIX A – 
MEMO 1: RECOMMENDED REVISIONS TO THE CITY OF MATEO’S BASELINE TRASH GENERATION 
MAP AND NEXT STEPS 
APPENDIX B -  
MEMO 2/4: TRASH SOURCES AND POTENTIAL SOURCE CONTROL MEASURES IN PRIORITIZED 
STORMWATER CATCHMENTS AND TRASH MANAGEMENT AREAS (TMAS) 
APPENDIX C -  
MEMO 3: REFINE/EXPAND THE PREVIOUS FULL CAPTURE EVALUATION INTO PRIORITIZED 
STORMWATER CATCHMENTS AND TRASH MANAGEMENT AREAS (TMAS) 
 
47 of 179

--- page 48 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
January 2019 
v 
 
 
List of Abbreviations 
BASMAA 
Bay Area Stormwater Management Agencies Association 
BIDs 
Business Improvement Districts 
Caltrans 
California Department of Transportation 
CPSs 
Connector Pipe Screens 
FY 
Fiscal Year 
GIS 
Geographic Information System 
GSRD 
Gross Solids Removal Systems 
HDS 
Hydrodynamic Separator 
MRP 
Municipal Regional NPDES Permit for Stormwater 
NPDES 
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System 
NSBB/DSBB 
Nutrient Separating Baffle Boxes 
O&M 
Operation and Maintenance 
OVTAs 
On-Land Visual Assessments 
ROW 
Public Right-of-Way 
SFBRWQCB 
San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board 
TMAs 
Trash Management Areas 
48 of 179

--- page 49 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
1 
 
1. 
Introduction 
1.1 Purpose 
This memorandum serves as the final deliverable of the Trash Control Measure Planning Project being 
conducted by EOA, Inc. (EOA) for the City of San Mateo (City). The goal of this project is to identify the 
costs and benefits of a range of trash control measures that if implemented would assist the City in 
reducing trash discharged from its municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) and addressing trash 
load reduction goals mandated by the San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board (Regional 
Water Board). The trash reduction goals are required through NPDES Municipal Regional Permit 2.0 
(Order No. R2-2015-0049), which states that each applicable Permittee must achieve 100% trash 
reduction (i.e. no adverse impacts to receiving waters) by the year 2022. This memorandum is the 
culmination of previous tasks conducted as part of the Trash Control Measure Planning Project and 
summarizes the results of all previous task deliverables, which are included as appendices.  
1.2 Background 
The City is subject to requirements of NPDES Municipal Regional Permit 2.0 (MRP 2.0). Section C.10.a.i. of 
MRP 2.0 states: 
“Permittees shall implement trash load reduction control actions in accordance with the following 
schedule and trash generation area management requirements, including mandatory minimum 
full trash capture systems, to meet the goal of 100 percent trash load reduction or no adverse 
impact to receiving waters from trash by July 1, 2022.” 
MRP 2.0 Permittees established baseline trash levels in all areas draining to their MS4s by conducting On-
land Visual Trash Assessments (OVTAs) and assigning trash generation categories to land areas, including 
private properties and the public right-of-way (ROW), based on these assessments. Baseline trash 
generation levels are depicted on the City’s baseline trash generation map (Figure 1), which was refined 
based on the findings of Task 1 of this project to differentiate land areas draining to public ROWs and 
those draining to storm drain inlets located on private properties. Refined baseline trash generation levels 
(i.e., acres and gallons) from each area are summarized in Table 1. 
 
Table 1. City of San Mateo baseline trash generation levels. 
 
Trash Generation Levels 
Total 
Low 
Moderate 
High 
Very High 
Area (acres) 
 
 
 
 
 
Draining to Public ROW 
4,723 
928 
631 
0 
6,282 
Draining to Private Property a 
242 
140 
113 
0 
495 
Total 
4,965 
1,068 
744 
0 
6,777 
Proportion of Baseline Trash Load (%) 
  
  
  
  
  
Draining to Public ROW 
0% 
23% 
62% 
0% 
85% 
Draining to Private Property a 
0% 
3% 
11% 
0% 
15% 
Total 
0% 
26% 
74% 
0% 
100% 
a Only includes those properties >10,000 ft2 that were assessed as part of the baseline refinement process conducted in 2019. 
May not include all land area draining to inlets on private properties, including areas treated by existing/planned trash full 
capture systems. 
49 of 179

--- page 50 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
2 
 
 
Figure 1. Baseline trash generating areas, areas addressed by operational and planned trash full capture 
systems, and OVTA results (2017-19) in the City of San Mateo. 
50 of 179

--- page 51 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
3 
 
MRP 2.0 Permittees can demonstrate reductions in baseline levels of trash by using one or more of the 
following four strategies:  
1. Implement source controls and demonstrate reductions up to 10% (credits) based on substantial 
data;  
2. Install and maintain trash full capture systems certified by the State Water Resources Control 
Board; 
3. Implement a direct discharge offset program and demonstrate reductions up to 15% based on 
the volume of trash removed annually;  
4. Conduct creek and shoreline cleanups and demonstrate reductions up to 10% based on the 
volume of trash removed annually; and 
5. Implement trash controls other than those listed above and demonstrate via OVTAs that the 
baseline levels of trash have decreased to a level of a consistent OVTA “A” score.  
In its Fiscal Year (FY) 2018-19 Annual Report, the City demonstrated a trash load reduction of 94.3% using 
strategies 1, 2, 4 and 5 above (Table 2). Based on this demonstration, the City achieved the mandatory 
80% trash load reduction requirement included in MRP 2.0. This memorandum focuses on potential new 
or enhanced trash control measures that could be implemented in areas that are not currently address by 
operational/planned trash full capture systems and where OVTAs have not demonstrated consistent 
OVTA “A” scores to-date. The memorandum evaluates the costs and benefits of implementing different 
control measures to address trash from these remaining trash generating areas. 
Table 2. Trash load reductions reported by the City of San Mateo in FY 2018-19. 
Trash Control Measures 
Reported Reductions 
Source Control Credits (Max 10%) 
10.0% 
Full Capture Systems 
29.5% 
Direct Discharge Program Offset (Max 15%) 
0.0% 
Creek and Shoreline Cleanup Offset (Max 10%) 
0.0% 
Other Actions (via OVTAs) 
54.8% 
Total 
94.3% 
 
New or Enhanced Trash Control Measures Evaluated 
Although the City has to-date achieved trash reductions consistent with MRP goals, their remains 
uncertainty in whether credits associated with source controls will continue to be allowed in future 
NPDES permits and whether other actions implemented by the City will continue to achieve the trash 
load reductions listed in Table 2. With this uncertainty, the City has decided to evaluate the costs and 
benefits of implementing new and enhanced trash control measures to reduce the risk of not complying 
with the ultimate goal of 100% load reduction/no adverse impacts to receiving waters. 
51 of 179

--- page 52 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
4 
 
Building upon the successes that the City and other Bay Area municipalities have had in implementing 
specific trash control measures, a list of new and enhanced control measures that the City should 
consider was identified. This list was discussed with City staff and include the following control measures: 
• 
Publicly-Owned Large Full Capture Systems  
• 
Publicly-Owned Small Full Capture Systems  
• 
Full Capture Requirement for Private Properties 
• 
Enhanced Municipal Trash Inspection Program 
• 
Curb-inlet screens on Inlets in the Public ROW 
• 
Enhanced Municipal Street Sweeping  
• 
Expanded On-Land Cleanups 
• 
Enhanced City-Wide Public Education and Outreach Program 
• 
Municipal Ordinance – Single-use Plastic Food Service Ware 
 
These trash control measures were the focus of this feasibility evaluation. 
2. 
Potential New or Enhanced Trash Control Measures 
This section describes each potential new or enhanced trash control measure being considered for 
implementation by the City. The extent to which the City has implemented the control measure to-date, 
the potential future implementation of the control measure, the estimated trash reduction benefits of 
existing and potential implementation, and the estimated costs of implementing the new or enhanced 
control measure (as described) are summarized in this section. Please note the following:  
• 
The trash reduction benefits associated with potential new/enhanced controls that are 
summarized in this section should be considered preliminary estimates, as they are based on a 
combination of the City’s baseline trash generation map (as refined in 2019), the extent of 
existing and planned trash full capture systems implemented, and best professional judgement 
based on the current understanding of the effectiveness of each control measure;  
• 
Cost estimates included in this section and in Section 3 should be considered preliminary 
planning-level estimates and may not include all costs associated with the design, planning, 
purchase, construction/installation, implementation, and operation and maintenance associated 
with the control measure. Assumptions associated with estimating the costs for each control 
measure are included.  
• 
Costs estimates presented are based on the most readily available information at the time that 
this evaluation was conducted, including staffing rates (fully burdened) that were provided by the 
City.  Comparisons of base/initial costs (e.g., design, planning, purchasing, and 
constructing/installing), annual ongoing costs (e.g., implementation and O&M and replacement 
for full capture systems), and 50-year life cycle costs were developed using this information to 
assist the City in evaluating the most cost-effective approaches to achieving mandated trash load 
reductions. More detailed cost estimates will likely be needed should the City decide to move 
forward with the implementation of one or more of the control measures evaluated. 
52 of 179

--- page 53 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
5 
 
2.1 Publicly-Owned Large Full Capture Systems 
Large full trash capture systems are devices that can treat an entire stormwater catchment area 
(including storm drains on private property) and provide a single location for maintenance, saving 
operation costs over time. Two disadvantages of large systems are the relatively high capital and 
construction costs, which require a large initial funding source, and the higher instance of subsurface 
utility conflicts at desired locations within highly urbanized areas.   
There are three types of large full capture systems currently installed in the Bay Area - hydrodynamic 
separators, gross solids removal systems, and netting systems. The selection of large systems for reducing 
trash will depend on the characteristics of a specific location, hydraulic impacts, potential for 
environmental permitting, and resulting trash load reduction percentage.   
Existing and Planned Large Full Capture Systems 
The City currently has one large debris separating baffle box installed at the Poplar-Dore catchment. The 
City also plans to install a second large debris separating baffle box in the Coyote catchment in the near 
future. Together, these two devices cover 608 acres within the City and account for roughly a 20.6% trash 
load reduction. 
Potential Additional Large Full Capture Systems 
In Task 3 of the project (see Appendix 3), all stormwater catchments in the City were evaluated via a 
desktop analysis for the feasibility of installing large full trash capture systems. Trash load reductions and 
preliminary cost estimates were developed for ten (10) potential large full capture systems (Figure 2). The 
Poplar- Golf Course was identified as a priority location for the installation of a large full capture system 
(Figure 3). The most optimal type of system identified for the Poplar-Golf Course site appears to be a 
gross solid removal device (GSRD) or a netting system because the ideal location for installation is in an 
open channel near the terminus of the catchment.   
Cost Estimates  
The preliminary, planning-level cost estimates associated with the design, installation, and operation of a 
large trash capture system at the Poplar-Golf Course site is presented in Table 3. Additional detail 
regarding this location, type and assumptions associated with this potential system is included in 
Appendix C. 
 
53 of 179

--- page 54 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
6 
 
 
 Figure 2. Locations and catchments for potential large full trash capture systems in the City of San Mateo. 
54 of 179

--- page 55 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
7 
 
 
Figure 3. Location and catchment of the potential Poplar-Golf Course large full capture system. 
55 of 179

--- page 56 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
8 
 
Table 3 Preliminary Planning-Level Costs Estimates for the Large Full Capture System at Poplar-Golf Course. 
Summary of Enhancement 
City Staff  
Implementing Task 
Base/Initial Tasks 
On-going/Annual Tasks 
Task 
Geographical 
Span of 
Implementation 
Assumptions 
Estimated  
Staffing  
Annual  
FTE Rate 
(Fully Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Estimated Staffing 
(Annual) 
Annual  
FTE Rate 
(Fully Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Hours 
Portion of 
FTEa 
Hours 
Portion 
of FTEa 
Capital costs of system 
design, installation, 
construction, and 
contingency 
Poplar Golf 
Course 
Catchment 
Contractor installs devices, 
either netting or GSRD  
NA 
-- 
-- 
-- 
$458,000 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
City develops concept 
and releases bid/RFP 
for large full capture 
system at Poplar Golf 
Course location and 
manages construction 
contract. 
Based on feasibility 
evaluation, City staff has 
enough information to 
develop and release bid 
package for design/build of 
the system. City staff assist 
with design of system. 
 
Associate City Engineer staff 
time only needed for the first 
two years (i.e., Base/Initial 
Tasks). No on-going costs 
associated with this task. 
Associate City 
Engineer 
300 
0.15 
$165,598 
$24,840 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
City Field 
Maintenance 
Manager 
8 
0.004 
$199,282 
$797 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
City develops standard 
operating procedure 
for maintenance of 
large system. 
 
City Field Maintenance 
Manager with assistance 
from City Sewer Maintenance 
Leadworker develops 
standard operating 
procedure for maintenance 
of large system. 
City Field 
Maintenance 
Manager 
80 
0.04 
$199,282 
$7,971 
-- 
-- 
-- 
--  
City Sewer 
Maintenance 
Leadworker 
24 
0.01 
$137,888 
$1,655 
-- 
-- 
-- 
--  
City operates and 
maintains system 
2 maintenance events each 
year 
 
City Sewer 
Maintenance 
Leadworker 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
24 
0.01 
$137,888 
$1,655 
56 of 179

--- page 57 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
9 
 
1 vactor operator and 3 
maintenance staff per 
maintenance event 
 
4 hrs per event 
City Maintenance 
Worker II/Vactor 
Operator (4 staff) 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
32 
0.02 
$111,965 
$1,791 
Overhead Costs 
Oversight of all tasks above 
City Deputy Director 
of Public Works 
20 
0.01 
$257,261 
$2,573 
20 
0.01 
$257,261 
$2,573 
Totals 
432 
0.22 
-- 
$495,835 
76 
0.04 
 --  
$6,019 
a One Full Time Equivalent (FTE) position is assumed to be 2,000 staff hours in a given year. 
57 of 179

--- page 58 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
10 
 
2.2 Publicly-Owned Small Full Capture Systems 
Screening systems that are installed in stormwater catch basins (or inlets) are commonly known as catch 
basin inserts (CBIs). CBIs are placed inside a catch basin to prevent trash, organic material (e.g. leaves and 
twigs) and sediment from entering the storm drain outflow pipe within the catch basin. There are two 
general designs of CBIs, inlet inserts, and outlet inserts. Inlet inserts are placed inside the inlet, while 
outlet inserts are placed in front of the outlet pipe. A wide variety of CBI designs exist, mostly in the form 
of outlet inserts (e.g., connector pipe screens) that are placed in front of the outlet pipe. CBIs that use 
filtering walls or filter media are not applicable for trapping trash and do not meet the full trash capture 
standard. As a result, the term “insert” does not refer to configurations that use filter media for removing 
other stormwater pollutants.  
Maintenance is performed with a vactor truck or manually with a shovel. At a minimum, maintenance is 
performed at least once per year to ensure that the device meets the full capture standard. If the device 
is observed to have a plugged or blinded screen or is greater than 50 percent full during a maintenance 
event, the maintenance frequency should be increased so that the device is neither plugged nor more 
than half full at the next maintenance event.  
Existing Small Full Capture Systems 
The City currently has 142 CPS devices installed in inlets in their public ROW. These devices address trash 
from roughly 242 acres of land, an reduce roughly 11% of the trash generated in moderate and high trash 
generation areas.  
Potential Additional Small Full Capture Systems 
Excluding the inlets with existing CPS devices, inlets within stormwater catchments addressed by the 
Poplar-Dore and Coyote large capture systems, and the 885 inlets in the public ROW that are within the 
proposed large capture system at Poplar Golf Course, there are roughly 753 inlets in the public ROW that 
are in areas with moderate or high trash generation in the City. Based on the desktop analysis described 
in Appendix C, the City could install up to 619 small full capture systems in these 753 inlets and address 
the remaining moderate and high trash generating areas in the City that drain to the public ROW.1 The 
locations of these 619 systems are illustrated in Figure 4. 
Cost Estimates for Enhanced Actions 
The preliminary, planning-level cost estimates associated with the design, installation, and operation of 
the potential 619 small capture full trash capture devices throughout the City is presented in Table 3. 
Additional detail regarding the location, type and assumptions associated with these potential devices is 
included in Appendix C. 
 
 
1 Because some inlets are connected (i.e., daisy-chained), devices placed in these 619 inlets will likely address trash from the land 
areas draining to the 753 inlets in the public ROW.  
58 of 179

--- page 59 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
11 
 
 
Figure 4. Locations of 619 potential small (inlet-based) full trash capture systems in the City of San Mateo. 
59 of 179

--- page 60 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
12 
 
 
Summary of Enhancement 
City Staff Implementing 
Task 
Base/Initial Tasks 
On-going/Annual Tasks 
Estimated Staffing  
Annual 
FTE Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Estimated Staffing 
(Annual) 
Annual FTE 
Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Task 
Geographical Span of 
Implementation 
Assumptions 
Hours 
Portion of 
FTEa 
Hours 
Portion of  
FTEa 
City develops 
concept and releases 
bid/RFP for small 
capture systems 
619 public ROW inlets 
in Moderate and High 
trash generating areas 
(735 including Poplar 
Golf Course) not 
treated by existing or 
planned full capture 
systems, including the 
Popular Golf Course 
system 
All planning tasks 
conducted by City staff 
Associate City Engineer 
500 
0.25 
$165,598 
$41,400 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
City Field Maintenance 
Manager 
8 
0.00 
$199,282 
$797 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
City Sewer Maintenance 
Leadworker 
80 
0.04 
$137,888 
$5,516 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
City Maintenance 
Worker II (calculations 
assume 2 workers) 
160 
0.08 
$111,965 
$8,957 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
Capital costs of 
system, installation, 
and contingency 
619 Public ROW Inlets 
Contractor installs devices 
 
Capital costs can range 
from $500 to $2500 per 
inlet, and estimated to be 
$1,000 per device (see 
Appendix C) 
 
Replacement of each inlet 
devices 2x during a 50-yr 
timeframe (i.e., average 
replacement rate of 25 
screens/yr) at 
$1,000/screen 
Materials Costs 
-- 
-- 
-- 
$619,000 
-- 
-- 
-- 
$24,760 
 
 
City develops 
standard operating 
procedure for 
maintenance of small 
capture systems. 
 
City Field Maintenance 
Manager with assistance 
from City Sewer 
Maintenance Leadworker 
develops standard 
operating procedure for 
City Field Maintenance 
Manager 
80 
0.04 
$199,282 
$7,971 
-- 
-- 
-- 
 -- 
City Sewer Maintenance  
Leadworker 
24 
0.01 
$137,888 
$1,655 
-- 
-- 
-- 
 -- 
60 of 179

--- page 61 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
13 
 
a One Full Time Equivalent (FTE) position is assumed to be 2,000 staff hours in a given year. 
maintenance of small 
capture systems. 
City maintains 
systems 
All public ROW inlets 
where Small Capture 
Systems are installed 
619 locations 
 
4 maintenance events per 
year 
 
2 maintenance workers 
per maintenance event (1 
leadworker and 2 
maintenance II staff) 
 
0.5 hours per 
maintenance event 
City Sewer Maintenance 
Leadworker 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
1238 
0.62 
 $137,888  
 $85,353  
City Maintenance 
Worker II (calculations 
assume 2 workers) 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
2476 
1.24 
 $ 111,965  
 $138,613  
Overhead Costs 
NA 
Oversight of all tasks 
above 
City Deputy Director of 
Public Works 
20 
0.01 
$257,261 
$2,573 
20 
0.01 
 $257,261  
 $2,573  
Totals 
872 
0.44 
-- 
$687,868 
3734 
1.87 
-- 
$251,298 
61 of 179

--- page 62 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
14 
 
2.3 
Full Capture Requirement for (Applicable) Private Properties 
Trash generated on private properties with privately owned and operated storm drain inlets can enter the 
City’s MS4 via connection downstream of the property. Some municipalities in the Bay Area have 
required private properties that generate moderate, high or very high levels of trash to install trash full 
capture systems. 
Existing Requirements for Trash Controls for Private Property 
It is our understanding that the City currently requires newly developed properties and properties 
undergoing significant redevelopment to install full capture systems in all inlets within the subject 
property. Existing developed properties that are not undergoing redevelopment and have inlets onsite, 
however, are not currently addressed by full capture systems. 
Potential Requirements for Trash Controls for Private Property 
Similar to other Bay Area municipalities, the City could choose to develop and enforce their existing or 
newly established authority via their municipal code (i.e., stormwater ordinance) to require all applicable 
private properties with storm drain inlets on their property that are identified as generating moderate or 
high levels of trash, and not addressed by other full capture systems, to install and maintain trash full 
capture system(s) in their inlets. This would allow all trash-generating properties that contain inlets on 
their properties to be addressed by full trash capture systems, moving the City closer to achieving the 
100% trash reduction goal. This control measure could be beneficial to the City in that trash from many of 
these private properties would not be addressed by small trash full capture devices installed in the public 
ROW because these private inlets do not connect to public ROW inlets. Thus, installing small trash full 
capture devices directly into privately-owned inlets may be the most cost-effective way of addressing 
trash from these properties, because the cost burden of reducing trash would be placed on property 
owners, instead of the City. City resources would be needed, however, to enforce this type or ordinance. 
Cost Estimates for Enhanced Actions 
The preliminary, planning-level cost estimates associated with the drafting and enforcing of an ordinance 
to require trash full capture systems to be installed in all inlets on private properties throughout the City 
is presented in Table 5. The locations of the applicable private properties are illustrated in Figure 5. 
 
62 of 179

--- page 63 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
15 
 
 
Figure 5. Private properties in the City of San Mateo that could be considered for the full capture 
treatment requirement.
63 of 179

--- page 64 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
16 
 
Table 5. Preliminary Planning-Level Costs Estimates for Full Capture Requirement for Private Properties. 
Summary of Enhancement 
City Staff 
Implementing Task 
Base/Initial Tasks 
On-going/Annual Tasks 
Estimated Staffing 
Annual FTE 
Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Estimated Staffing 
(Annual) 
Annual FTE 
Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Task 
Geographical Span of 
Implementation 
Assumptions 
Hours 
Portion of FTEa 
Hours 
Portion 
of FTEa 
Develop and enforce 
authority to require all 
private properties 
identified as Moderate or 
High trash generating 
during recent OVTAs that 
are not treated by existing 
or planned full capture 
systems (including Poplar 
Golf Course), and have 
privately owned and 
operated storm drains on 
their property to install 
full capture system(s) 
All private properties: 
- in Moderate and 
High trash generating 
areas  
- not treated by 
existing or planned full 
capture systems, 
including the Poplar 
Golf Course system 
- have privately owned 
and operated storm 
drains on their 
property 
Draft and develop ordinance 
giving City the legislative 
authority to require FTC 
installation on all private 
properties 
City Regulatory 
Compliance 
Manager 
40 
0.02 
$240,752 
$4,815 
-- 
-- 
-- 
  -- 
City Environmental 
Compliance 
Coordinator 
40 
0.02 
$168,982 
$3,380 
-- 
-- 
-- 
  -- 
City Deputy Director 
Public Works 
4 
0.001 
$257,261 
$515 
-- 
-- 
-- 
  -- 
Review final ordinance for 
approval 
City Deputy Director 
Public Works 
4 
0.001 
$257,261 
$515 
-- 
-- 
-- 
 --  
Review final ordinance for 
approval 
City Attorney 
4 
0.001 
$328,728 
$657 
-- 
-- 
-- 
  -- 
Identify and confirm 
applicable private parcels 
via trash inspections (i.e., 
OVTAs) 
112 inspections in year one 
to determine installation 
feasability 
 
1 hr per inspection 
(including travel time) 
City Inspector 
100 
0.05 
$138,545 
$6,927 
-- 
-- 
-- 
  -- 
Notify all applicable 
private parties that full 
capture systems are 
required by a certain date 
Coordinates development of 
communications. Identifies 
property owners/managers, 
performs data analysis and 
compilation.  
 
~100 of 112 properties 
required to install systems. 
City Environmental 
Compliance 
Coordinator 
230 
0.12 
$168,932 
$19,427 
-- 
-- 
-- 
 --  
Reviews communications 
City Attorney 
4 
0.001 
$328,728 
$657 
-- 
-- 
-- 
  -- 
64 of 179

--- page 65 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
17 
 
Summary of Enhancement 
City Staff 
Implementing Task 
Base/Initial Tasks 
On-going/Annual Tasks 
Estimated Staffing 
Annual FTE 
Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Estimated Staffing 
(Annual) 
Annual FTE 
Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Task 
Geographical Span of 
Implementation 
Assumptions 
Hours 
Portion of FTEa 
Hours 
Portion 
of FTEa 
Hold public meeting to 
discuss requirement and 
provide opportunities for 
public input 
Hold two, two-hour public 
meetings to provide 
background on requirement 
and answer questions. 
Assume 4 hours for each 
meeting and times taken for 
preparation and responding 
to the public afterwards. 
City Environmental 
Compliance 
Coordinator 
10 
0.01 
$168,932 
$845 
-- 
-- 
-- 
 --  
Coordinate with vendors 
and hold vendor fair 
Communications with 
vendors and stakeholders. 
Oversight of vendor fair. 
Assume 1 day of fair with 4 
days of preparation 
City Environmental 
Compliance 
Coordinator 
40 
0.02 
$168,932 
$3,379 
-- 
-- 
-- 
 --  
Conduct inspections to 
ensure installation of 
systems. Follow-up as 
needed, including 
enforcement 
Inspections of 100 (of 112) 
private properties in year 
two to ensure installation. 
 
1 hr per inspection 
(including travel time) 
City Inspector 
100 
0.05 
$138,545 
$6,927 
-- 
-- 
-- 
 --  
Conduct O&M inspections 
to ensure adequate 
maintenance of systems. 
Enforcement procedures 
implemented as needed 
Operation and maintenance 
inspections at 25 private 
properties every year, 
beginning in year three. 
 
1 hr per inspection 
(including travel time) 
City Inspector 
-- 
 -- 
-- 
--  
25 
0.013 
$138,545 
$1,732 
Overhead Costs 
NA 
Oversight 
Deputy Director 
Public Works 
40 
0.02 
$257,261 
$5,145 
-- 
-- 
-- 
  
 
 
Totals 
524 
0.262 
-- 
$53,189 
25 
0.013 
-- 
$1,732 
a One Full Time Equivalent (FTE) position is assumed to be 2,000 staff hours in a given year. 
 
65 of 179

--- page 66 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
18 
 
2.4 
Enhanced Municipal Trash Inspection Program 
Based on source investigations conducted as part of this project (see Appendix B), trash associated with 
private properties draining to either the public ROW or via inlets located on private property, remain 
important sources in the City. To address this source, some municipalities in the Bay Area have 
successfully instituted a Trash Inspection Program that entails the periodic assessment of trash levels on 
properties of interest by City staff, and if levels are above an “A” OVTA score, then requiring the property 
owners/managers to institute control measures that achieve this trash reduction goal.  
Existing Trash Inspection Program 
Stormwater inspections are currently conducted by the City at commercial and industrial facilities, 
consistent with MRP provision C.4. In FY 19-20, 124 stormwater inspections were conducted at 106 
commercial or industrial facilities. The City currently inspects these facilities for stormwater compliance 
on an annual, biannual, or once every five years frequency, based on the business type and potential to 
contribute pollutants to the City’s MS4. Trash management activities are identified and evaluated as part 
of these stormwater inspections. That said, there are many businesses and other private properties that 
are not included as part of the City’s existing stormwater inspection program, but still contribute 
moderate or high levels of trash to the City’s MS4. 
Potential Expansion of Trash Inspection Program 
An enhanced trash inspection program implemented by the City could entail the following: 
1. More formally adding an On-Land Visual Trash Assessment (OVTA) component to existing 
stormwater compliance inspections conducted by the City, and 
2. Conducting targeted trash inspections that include OVTAs at additional businesses that are not 
currently inspected for stormwater compliance and other private properties that have moderate 
or high trash levels. 
Enhanced trash inspections conducted as part of stormwater compliance inspections would occur at the 
frequency that stormwater inspections are currently conducted, unless the property inspected achieved 
an OVTA score of less than an “A”.  For those properties where moderate (B) or high (C) OVTA scores 
were observed, enforcement and follow up inspections would be conducted by the City at a higher 
frequency until an “A” score is attained. Properties not currently included in the stormwater inspection 
pool would be inspected once every 5-years, unless the property achieved an OVTA score of less than an 
“A”. For those properties where moderate (B) or high (C) OVTA scores were observed, enforcement and 
follow up inspections would be conducted by the City at a higher frequency until an “A” score is attained. 
The locations of properties where an enhanced municipal trash inspection program could expand to is 
included in Figure 6. 
Cost Estimates for Enhanced Actions 
Adding OVTAs to existing stormwater compliance inspections will add additional time for each inspection, 
and thus would require additional inspection resources. Additionally, inspecting a larger pool of 
businesses and other private properties would also require new resources. These increases in the number 
of inspections conducted each year by the City would also be accompanied by additional costs associated 
with communications to applicable property owners to discuss/require improved trash management, the 
management of inspection data, and overhead/oversight costs. A preliminary, planning-level cost 
estimate associated with the implementation of an Enhanced Trash Inspection Program is presented in 
Table 6.  
 
66 of 179

--- page 67 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
19 
 
 
Figure 6. Private properties that generate moderate or high trash levels and therefore could be included 
in a new enhanced trash inspection program in the City of San Mateo.2 
 
 
 
2 This map is produced from existing EOA private parcel data from the City. These parcels include all commercial, retail, and light 
industrial parcels that generate moderate or high levels of trash and are larger than 10,000 ft2. 
67 of 179

--- page 68 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
20 
 
Table 6. Preliminary Planning-Level Costs Estimates for creating and implementing an Enhanced Municipal Trash Inspection Program. 
Summary of Enhancement 
City Staff 
Implementing 
Task  
Base/Initial Tasks 
On-going/Annual Tasks 
Estimated Staffing 
Annual 
FTE Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Estimated Staffing 
(Annual) 
Annual 
FTE Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Task 
Geographical Span  
of Implementation 
Assumptions 
Hours 
Portion of  
FTEa 
Hours 
Portion of  
FTEa 
Add trash inspections 
(i.e., OVTAs) to 
existing 
commercial/industrial 
stormwater 
inspections at 
applicable businesses 
identified by the City.  
All commercial and 
industrial facilities: 
- in Moderate and High 
trash generating areas  
- have privately owned 
and operated storm 
drains on their property 
- Are part of the City's SW 
inspection program 
Proposed 100 properties 
inspected per year (with a 2-year 
cycle)  
 
25 follow-up inspections per year  
 
An additional 0.5 hours per 
inspection due to additional trash 
inspection component 
 
Enhanced inspections take 1.5 
hours per inspection 
City Inspector 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
750 
0.38 
$138,545 
$51,954 
Conduct trash 
inspections (i.e., 
OVTAs) at applicable 
private properties 
that are NOT part of 
SW inspection 
program. 
All private properties: 
- in Moderate and High 
trash generating areas  
- have privately owned 
and operated storm 
drains on their property 
- Are NOT part of the 
City's SW inspection 
program 
50 inspections per year (with a 2-
year cycle) 
 
10 follow-up inspections per year 
for those properties not achieving 
an "A" OVTA score in their last 
inspection 
 
1 hour per inspection (including 
travel time) 
City Inspector 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
250 
0.11 
$138,545 
$15,586 
Communications to 
applicable property 
owners to 
discuss/require 
improved trash 
management. 
All private properties: 
- in Moderate and High 
trash generating areas  
- have privately owned 
and operated storm 
drains on their property 
- Are NOT part of the 
Assumes communications for 
properties not achieving OVTA 
"A" but already being inspected 
via SW inspections will be 
handled via follow-up SW 
inspections. No additional costs 
for these properties in this line 
City Inspector 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
80 
0.04 
$138,545 
$5,542 
68 of 179

--- page 69 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
21 
 
Summary of Enhancement 
City Staff 
Implementing 
Task  
Base/Initial Tasks 
On-going/Annual Tasks 
Estimated Staffing 
Annual 
FTE Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Estimated Staffing 
(Annual) 
Annual 
FTE Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Task 
Geographical Span  
of Implementation 
Assumptions 
Hours 
Portion of  
FTEa 
Hours 
Portion of  
FTEa 
City's SW inspection 
program 
- Are NOT achieving an 
"A" OVTA score 
item. 
 
Estimated 25% of 60 properties 
including those that are part of 
the City's SW inspection program 
and not part of the SW inspection 
program will NOT achieve OVTA 
"A" score and need to implement 
new controls. 
Management of 
inspection data. Enter 
all data collected via 
trash inspections into 
the SMCWPPP OVTA 
database. Flag 
facilities that require 
follow-up inspections 
All private properties: 
- in Moderate and High 
trash generating areas  
- have privately owned 
and operated storm 
drains on their property 
185 data entries per year 
10 minutes per data entry 
City Inspector 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
125 
0.06 
$138,545 
$8,659 
Overhead Costs 
NA 
Provide oversight of above 
projects 
Regulatory 
Compliance 
Manager 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
40 
0.01 
$240,752 
$2,408 
Env. 
Compliance 
Coordinator 
-- 
-- 
-- 
 
40 
0.02 
$168,982 
$3,380 
 
 
 
Totals 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
1285 
0.62 
-- 
$87,529 
a One Full Time Equivalent (FTE) position is assumed to be 2,000 staff hours in a given year. 
 
 
 
 
69 of 179

--- page 70 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
22 
 
2.5 
Curb-Inlet Screens on Inlets in the Public ROW 
Curb inlet screens are treatment devices that block trash from entering a catch basin/inlet. These devices 
have some level of trash reduction benefit, however, they have not been well studied and are not 
certified/approved as trash full capture systems by the San Francisco Bay Regional Water Board or the 
State Water Resources Control Board as full capture systems. Curb-inlet screens may be retractable or 
fixed in place, and generally have a perforated screen or evenly spaced bars that are designed to fit 
outside of, or immediately within the storm drain curb opening. Retractable screens open either manually 
or hydraulically when a stormwater runoff applies enough force on the screen. Since curb-inlet screens 
block trash and debris from entering the storm drain inlet or storm drain, trash remains in the street and 
is removed by regular street sweeping or other measures.  
Curb-inlet screens in combination with inlet-based full capture systems are currently used as trash control 
measures by many municipalities throughout California. Because they are not approved/certified as trash 
full capture systems, curb-inlet screens are often used to supplement inlet-based systems by blocking 
trash and debris before entering inlets, which reduces the frequency of inlet maintenance. The ability of 
curb-inlet screens alone to achieve full capture equivalency (i.e., low trash generation) has not been fully 
evaluated until recently.  
Curb-inlet screens could benefit the City’s trash reduction program by preventing trash from reaching 
catch basins and being discharged via the City’s MS4. When properly maintained, curb-inlet screens can 
be effective at preventing trash from entering catch basins. Although there is not currently a widely 
accepted value for the trash reduction benefits that curb-inlet screens offer, curb-inlet screens have the 
potential to reduce a trash generating area to one score below its current trash generation rate (e.g., “C” 
score to “B” score) (EOA, In prep). Under this assumption, a fully encompassing curb-inlet screen 
implementation program could help the City achieve up to 42.7% trash reduction. The acceptable trash 
reduction benefit associated with curb-inlet screens is currently under discussion with San Francisco Bay 
Regional Water Board staff. 
 
Existing Curb-Inlet Screens 
Currently, no curb-inlet screens are installed on storm drain inlets in the City’s public ROW.  
Potential Installation and location of Curb-Inlet Screens 
Excluding the inlets with existing CPS devices, inlets within stormwater catchments addressed by the 
Poplar-Dore and Coyote large capture systems, and the 885 inlets in the public ROW that are within the 
proposed large capture system at Poplar Golf Course, there are roughly 753 inlets in the public ROW that 
are in areas with moderate or high trash generation in the City. These inlets serve as the potential pool of 
inlets where curb-inlet screens could be installed. Of the 753 inlets in the pool, the City could choose to 
install curb-inlet screens in all or a portion of these inlets.  
 
Cost Estimates for Enhanced Actions 
For the purposes of estimating the costs of implementing a curb-inlet screen program, it is assumed that 
the City would purchase and have a vendor install curb-inlet screens on all 753 inlets in the public ROW. 
The preliminary, planning-level cost estimates associated with the fabrication, installation, and operation 
of the new 753 curb-inlet screen devices are presented in Table 7. 
.  
 
70 of 179

--- page 71 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
23 
 
 
Figure 7. Locations of 753 potential curb-inlet screens in the City of San Mateo. 
 
 
 
71 of 179

--- page 72 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
24 
 
Table 7. Preliminary Planning-Level Costs Estimates for the installation and maintenance of 753 Curb-Inlet Screens.  
Summary of Enhancement 
City Staff 
Implementing 
Task 
Base/Initial Tasks 
On-going/Annual Tasks 
Estimated Staffing 
Annual 
FTE Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Estimated Staffing  
(Annual) 
Annual 
FTE Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Task 
Geographical Span of 
Implementation 
Assumptions 
Hours 
Portion of 
FTEa 
Hours 
Portion of 
FTEa 
City develops 
concept and 
releases bid/RFP 
for curb-inlet 
screens 
753 public ROW inlets in 
Moderate and High trash 
generating areas not 
treated by existing or 
planned full capture 
systems or associated with 
the land areas addressed by 
the proposed Poplar Golf 
Course large capture 
system 
All planning tasks conducted by City Staff 
Management 
Analyst II 
100 
0.05 
$148,212 
$7,411 
 -- 
-- 
-- 
--  
Vendor fabricates 
and Installs Curb-
inlet Screens 
753 Public Row Inlets 
Contractor installs devices  
 
Capital costs can range from $400 to $700. 
Costs of each inlet screen estimated to be 
$500 
 
Replacement of each inlet devices 2x during 
a 50-yr timeframe (i.e., average 
replacement rate of 25 screens/yr) at 
$500/screen 
Materials Cost 
-- 
-- 
-- 
$376,500 
-- 
-- 
-- 
$15,060 
Oversight of 
contractor 
installation 
Inlets installed in all public 
ROW inlets in Moderate 
and High trash generating 
areas not treated by 
existing or planned full 
capture systems, including 
Contractor fabricates and installs curb-inlet 
screens  
 
City staff oversight over installation, 
including initial inspection of devices. 
Sewer 
Maintenance 
Leadworker 
80 
0.04 
$137,888 
$5,516 
--  
-- 
-- 
 -- 
72 of 179

--- page 73 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
25 
 
Summary of Enhancement 
City Staff 
Implementing 
Task 
Base/Initial Tasks 
On-going/Annual Tasks 
Estimated Staffing 
Annual 
FTE Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Estimated Staffing  
(Annual) 
Annual 
FTE Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Task 
Geographical Span of 
Implementation 
Assumptions 
Hours 
Portion of 
FTEa 
Hours 
Portion of 
FTEa 
On-going 
oversight of 
replacement/rep
air process by 
contractor 
the Popular Golf Course 
system 
2 inspections per year of each inlet to check 
for damage and repairs. 
 
10 minutes per inspection 
City 
Maintenance 
Worker II 
-- 
 -- 
-- 
 -- 
251 
0.13 
$111,965 
$14,052 
Oversight of all 
tasks above 
 NA 
 Provide oversight of above projects 
City Deputy 
Director of 
Public Works 
20 
0.01 
$257,261 
$2,573 
20 
0.01 
$257,261 
$2,573 
 
 
 
Totals 
200 
0.1 
-- 
$391,999 
271 
0.14 
-- 
$31,684 
 a One Full Time Equivalent (FTE) position is assumed to be 2,000 staff hours in a given year.
73 of 179

--- page 74 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
26 
 
 
2.6 
Enhanced Municipal Street Sweeping 
Street sweeping can be effective means of removing trash from city streets and minimizing trash 
transport to receiving waters. Public agencies and private landowners conduct street sweeping to remove 
litter from streets and parking lots and reduce sediment buildup on impervious surfaces. Street sweeping 
may also remove other pollutants and prevent pipes and outlet structures within stormwater systems 
from becoming clogged with debris and trash. Street sweeping studies have shown that under ideal 
conditions (i.e., slow operator speeds, good condition of the roadway surface, prominent curbs and 
minimal/no automobiles parked along curb) a street sweeper can remove nearly all litter from the swept 
area. However, sweeping will not remove trash from sidewalks or roadside vegetation where trash is 
often observed and may be available to the MS4. In addition, obstacles such as parked cars and low-
hanging trees can limit the ability of street sweeping to remove all trash from the swept area.  
Although the City already conducts sweeping on many roadways, more frequent sweeping or improved 
sweeping conditions (e.g., removal of parked cars along the curb) may reduce the amount of trash 
observed on streets, possibly to a level of Full Capture System Equivalence (FCSE). Based on previous 
reviews of the literature on street sweeping effectiveness and recent studies conducted in the Bay Area 
(BASMAA 2017), it is estimated that a successful street sweeping program can reduce the level of trash 
on streets by roughly one OVTA score (e.g., “C” score to “B” score) if implemented effectively. Using this 
estimate, the enhanced municipal street sweeping program described in section could help the City 
achieve up to 42.7% trash reduction. 
Existing Street Sweeping Program 
The City’s street sweeping program was recently enhanced to reflect the trash generation across the City. 
Table 8 provides a summary of the street sweeping program currently implemented by the City. The City 
currently employs two sweeper operators and 4 backup operators and uses vacuum sweepers. The 
current street sweeping program doesn’t function during wet weather and avoids narrow streets and cul-
de-sacs. 
Potential Enhanced Street Sweeping Program 
Based on current information on the City’s street sweeping program and the demonstrated trash 
reduction benefits of street sweeping, it appears that an enhanced street-sweeping program could 
provide additional trash reduction benefit to the City. For the purpose of evaluating the costs and 
benefits, an enhanced street sweeping program implemented by the City is presented in Table 9. 
Enhancements would be implemented in areas that generate moderate and high levels of trash. Street 
segments addressed by the Poplar-Dore, Coyote, or Poplar-Golf Course large capture systems and small 
full capture systems are not subject to these enhancements. 
Cost Estimates for Enhanced Actions 
Table 9 presents the preliminary, planning-level cost estimates associated with the planning and 
implementation of the enhanced municipal street sweeping program described above and in Table 8. 
74 of 179

--- page 75 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
27 
 
Table 8. Summary of the current and potential enhancements to the municipal street sweeping program 
in the City of San Mateo. 
Trash Generation 
Category 
Existing Street Sweeping Program 
Potential Enhancements to  
Street Sweeping Program 
Curb 
Miles 
Sweeping 
Frequency 
Parking 
Enforcement 
Curb 
Miles 
Affected 
Sweeping 
Frequency 
Parking 
Enforcement 
Low Areas 
251 
From October to 
February 2x/month 
due to increased 
leaf litter. 
1x/month the 
remaining months. 
No parking during 
sweeping is not 
actively enforced 
and signage is 
minimal. 
No Enhancements Proposed 
Moderate Areas 
61 
2x/month 
No parking during 
sweeping is not 
actively enforced 
and signage is 
minimal. 
35 
NA 
Actively enforce 
no parking during 
sweeping and 
enhance signage. 
High Areas 
41 
2x/month 
No parking during 
sweeping is actively 
enforced and 
adequate signage is 
in place.  
25 
Increase 
from 
2x/month 
to weekly 
Actively enforce 
no parking during 
sweeping and 
enhance signage. 
Business District/ 
Downtown Area 
(Moderate & 
High) 
7 
3x/week 
No parking during 
sweeping is actively 
enforced and 
adequate signage is 
in place. 
No Enhancements Proposed 
75 of 179

--- page 76 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
28 
 
 
 
Figure 8. Street segments where sweeping enhancements would be implemented by the City of San 
Mateo.  
76 of 179

--- page 77 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
29 
 
Table 9. Preliminary Planning-Level Costs Estimates for an implementing an Enhanced Municipal Street Sweeping Program. 
Summary of Enhancement 
City Staff 
Implementing Task 
Base/Initial Tasks 
On-going/Annual Tasks 
Estimated Staffing 
Annual 
FTE Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Annual 
Hours 
Estimated 
FTE Staff 
Needed 
Annual 
FTE Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Task 
Geographical Span of 
Implementation 
Assumptions 
Hours 
Portion of 
FTEa 
Hours 
Portion of 
FTEa 
City installs "No 
Parking during 
Street Sweeping" 
signs 
All Moderate trash 
generating areas in the 
City covered by installed 
or planned full capture 
(35 curb-miles) 
Perform sign inventory to 
determine number and location of 
signs needed 
City Management 
Analyst II 
40 
0.02 
$148,212 
$2,964 
-- 
 -- 
-- 
 -- 
Research and purchase ~200 signs 
(exact number of signs TBD after 
inventory of signs is complete) 
City Management 
Analyst II 
20 
0.01 
$148,212 
$1,482 
-- 
--  
-- 
 -- 
Cost of each sign= $200 (Mouer, 
2019) 
Materials cost 
NA 
NA 
NA 
$40,000 
-- 
--  
-- 
 -- 
Communicate new signage with 
residents 
City Management 
Analyst II 
100 
0.05 
$148,212 
$7,411 
-- 
--  
-- 
 -- 
Installation of 250 signs in areas 
without adequate signage 
Assumes three laborers can install 
0.5 signs per hour 
Additional costs may be associated 
with locating utilities 
City Maintenance 
Worker II (x3) 
900 
0.45 
$111,965 
$50,384 
-- 
 --  
-- 
  -- 
City enforces fines 
for parked vehicles 
in all High trash 
generating areas 
All Moderate trash 
generating areas in the 
City not addressed by 
installed or planned full 
capture (35 curb-miles) 
Parking enforced by police officer 
during street sweeping 
City Police Officer 
-- 
-- 
-- 
--  
100 
0.05 
$168,707 
$8,435 
Enhance sweeping 
to once per week 
All High trash generating 
areas in the City not 
covered by installed or 
planned full capture (25 
curb-miles) 
Increase street sweeping to 1x per 
week 
City Sweeper 
Operator 
-- 
 --  
-- 
 --  
400 
0.2 
$116,409 
$23,282 
77 of 179

--- page 78 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
30 
 
Summary of Enhancement 
City Staff 
Implementing Task 
Base/Initial Tasks 
On-going/Annual Tasks 
Estimated Staffing 
Annual 
FTE Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Annual 
Hours 
Estimated 
FTE Staff 
Needed 
Annual 
FTE Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Task 
Geographical Span of 
Implementation 
Assumptions 
Hours 
Portion of 
FTEa 
Hours 
Portion of 
FTEa 
Enforce fines for 
parked vehicles 
All High trash generating 
areas in the City not 
covered by installed or 
planned full capture (25 
curb-miles) 
Parking enforced by police officer 
during street sweeping for 
additional days 
City Police Officer 
-- 
 -- 
-- 
  -- 
100 
0.05 
$168,707 
$8,435 
Overhead Costs 
NA 
Provide oversight of above tasks 
City Field 
Maintenance 
Manager 
100 
0.05 
$199,282 
$9,964 
20 
0.01 
$199,282 
$1,993 
 
 
Totals 
1160 
0.58 
-- 
$112,205 
620 
0.31 
-- 
$42,145 
a One Full Time Equivalent (FTE) position is assumed to be 2,000 staff hours in a given year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
78 of 179

--- page 79 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
31 
 
2.7 
Expanded On-land Cleanups 
Cleanups that remove trash from streets, sidewalks, and adjacent properties can have a significant impact 
on the levels of trash observed and available to the City’s MS4. On-land cleanups consist of manual 
removal of trash by agency staff, contractors hired as part of an association or business improvement 
districts (BIDs), or volunteers. These cleanups target known trash generating areas or dumping sites 
where street sweepers cannot access or effectively remove trash. On-land cleanups can help decrease 
trash levels that reach MS4s from these trash-prone/less accessible areas. Based on literature reviews 
conducted, the effectiveness of on-land cleanup in reducing trash reaching the stormwater conveyance 
system has not been evaluated in the context of FCSE. That said, conducting consistent on-land cleanups 
could conceptually sustain an improved level of trash (i.e., low generation) in areas with moderate or high 
baseline trash levels. The magnitude (frequency) and extent (location) to which cleanups would need to 
be conducted to observe reductions in trash to acceptable levels (i.e., FCSE) is likely dependent upon the 
baseline level of trash generation that occurs in the area. The higher the trash generation, the more 
frequent trash would need to be removed to achieve FCSE. The costs associated with on-land cleanups 
will be site-specific and dependent on the type (e.g., agency staff, contractor or volunteers) and number 
of individuals needed for the cleanup events, and the frequency of cleanups that would need to occur. An 
estimate of the trash reduction benefits of implementing an enhanced/expanded on-land cleanup 
program is generally unknown, but could be estimated based on a set of assumptions regarding the 
frequency and extent of the cleanup activities, and the baseline trash generation levels within the areas 
where the expanded cleanup program is being implemented. 
Existing On-land Cleanup Program 
The City has a number of active on-land cleanup activities currently underway. The City currently 
organizes a program called Team-Up to Clean-Up that organizes on-land cleanup events. Citizen groups 
can approach this program to initiate a cleanup event and the City will provide materials and dispose of 
the trash removed. In additional to the Team-Up to Clean-Up program, Hillsdale Mall and Home Depot 
consistently perform cleanups of their parcels. Additionally, the City hires a contractor to pick up trash at 
known trash hotspots 2x/month. The downtown association and the City also ensure the entire 
downtown areas stays clean by employing sidewalk cleaners on all business days. 
Potential Expansion of On-land Cleanups 
Enhancements to the existing on-land cleanup programs in the City could involve coordinating cleanup 
events internally, instead of cleanups being citizen-led. The City could identify priority areas that are not 
reached by other currently implemented control measures and direct volunteers to these areas on a 
monthly basis. Additionally, the City could expand the existing contractor’s range of cleanups or 
alternatively have City staff address problem areas. While the contractor currently services limited 
intersections, the contractor could instead focus on the entirety of public access near the Caltrain line, a 
known high trash generating area. This would include cleanups at all crossings, underpasses, cul-de-sacs 
and Railroad Avenue, which is a narrow street that runs adjacent to the train tracks. These areas have 
higher levels of trash because there are no property owners to maintain these areas and municipal street 
sweepers may struggle to effectively service these areas. 
Cost Estimates for Enhanced Actions 
The preliminary, planning-level cost estimates associated with the planning and implementation of an 
enhanced municipal street sweeping program throughout the City is presented in Table 10. 
 
 
 
 
79 of 179

--- page 80 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
32 
 
Table 10. Preliminary Planning-Level Costs Estimates for implementing Expanded On-land Cleanups. 
Summary of Enhancement 
City Staff 
Implementing 
Task 
Base/Initial Tasks 
On-going/Annual Tasks 
Estimated Staffing 
Annual 
FTE Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Estimated Staffing 
(Annual) 
Annual 
FTE Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Enhancements 
Geographical Span 
of Implementation 
Assumptions 
Hours 
Portion of FTEa 
Hours 
Portion of FTEa 
Identify priority 
areas for cleanups 
internally and then 
organize public 
cleanup events for 
those areas 
Moderate and High 
trash generating 
areas in the City not 
covered by Full 
Capture or Team-Up 
to Clean-Up events 
Feasible areas for cleanups will be 
identified 
City Field 
Maintenance 
Manager 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
20 
0.01 
$199,282 
$1,993 
Staff will coordinate and participate 
new events 
 
Assumes 12 events per year at 8 
hours per event, including 
coordination 
City Solid 
Waste 
Coordinator 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
96 
0.05 
$168,982 
$8,111 
Expand contractor’s 
range of cleanups to 
entirety of public 
access near Caltrain 
and trash generating 
areas that have 
difficulty being 
reached by the 
street sweeper  
Railroad crossings, 
underpasses, cul-de-
sacs, Railroad 
Avenue, or areas that 
the street sweeper 
cannot reach in 
Moderate and High 
trash generating 
areas in the City 
City maintenance worker increase 
workload by 16 hours per month 
based on how many additional areas 
are chosen 
City 
Maintenance 
Worker II (x3) 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
384 
0.19 
$111,965 
$21,497 
Overhead Costs 
NA 
Pick up and disposal of trash at 
Team-Up to Clean-Up and 
contractor-led events 
2 staff to pick up and dispose of trash 
Assumes 1 hour per trash pickup 
City 
Maintenance 
Worker II (x2) 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
120 
0.06 
$111,965 
$6,718 
Equipment needed for disposal 
including bags, gloves and a truck 
Materials cost 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
$500 
Provide oversight of above Tasks 
City Field 
Maintenance 
Manager 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
20 
0.01 
$199,282 
$1,993 
  
  
  
Totals 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
640 
0.32 
-- 
$40,812 
a One Full Time Equivalent (FTE) position is assumed to be 2,000 staff hours in a given year. 
80 of 179

--- page 81 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
33 
 
2.8 
Enhanced City-wide Public Education and Outreach Program 
Education and outreach programs are designed to raise citizen awareness about the impacts of littering 
or illegal dumping, and teach citizens how to change their behavior accordingly. Programs usually include 
a mixture of anti-littering advocacy, reinforced with the development of classroom curricula, storm drain 
signage and volunteer cleanups. To effectively target audiences, program managers need to have a strong 
understanding of the behaviors and attitudes of litterers before developing an outreach program. 
Programs can change people's attitudes, but implementation needs to be consistent over time to 
maintain performance. It is difficult to estimate the percentage reduction that the City may achieve 
through implementing an enhanced City-wide public education and outreach program, however EOA staff 
have qualitatively estimated that an enhanced program implemented as described in this section could 
offer a 5% maximum trash reduction in the City. 
Existing Public Education and Outreach Program 
The existing public education program in the City is primarily facilitated by the Public Information and 
Participation Program, which is part of SMCWPPP. Elementary and high school students each attend 
presentations on watershed health and stormwater pollutants. SMCWPPP currently puts on watershed 
awareness school programs for elementary and high school students. In addition, schools in the City 
promote coastal cleanup day and a clean streets campaign that has had success. The outreach 
component of the program hosts local cleanup events, puts up outreach tables at city events, distributes 
outreach materials and orchestrates press releases. The City also conducts public outreach. It worked 
with local business owners in the downtown area to raise awareness on trash traveling down the storm 
water system and trained the majority of its city staff in proper waste disposal techniques. 
Potential Enhancement of Public Education and Outreach Program 
Expansion of the community outreach and education program could benefit overall trash load reduction 
by promoting litter prevention initiatives. Opportunities for growth could involve additional school 
programs for middle schoolers and reviving old initiatives such as the “Be the Street” campaign. Schools 
were noted as significant sources of trash in EOA’s recent source investigation. Ephemeral events or 
programs mean a lack of reinforcement for the community in maintaining clean watershed objectives. By 
introducing storm water pollution prevention throughout schooling and keeping these initiatives and 
programs consistent over time, students and communities will engrain these concepts into the culture of 
the City. 
Cost Estimates for Enhanced Actions 
The preliminary, planning-level cost estimates associated with the planning and implementation of an 
enhanced city-wide public education and outreach program throughout the City is presented in Table 11. 
81 of 179

--- page 82 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
34 
 
Table 11. Preliminary Planning-Level Costs Estimates for an Enhanced City-Wide Public Education and Outreach Program 
Summary of Enhancement 
City Staff Implementing Task 
Base/Initial Tasks 
On-going/Annual Tasks 
Estimated Staffing 
Annual 
FTE Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Estimated Staffing 
(annual) 
Annual 
FTE Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Task 
Geographical Span  
of Implementation 
Assumptions 
Hours 
Portion of FTEa 
Hours 
Portion of FTEa 
Expansion of 
outreach and 
education program 
to involve 
additional school 
programs for 
middle schoolers 
Middle schools in the 
City 
City staff will develop 
and coordinate further 
education programs and 
provide training to 
volunteers to present to 
classrooms and student 
groups, and will 
participate in the 
implementation of the 
program 
City Communications and 
Public Relations Analyst 
200 
0.10 
$159,283 
$15,928 
200 
0.1 
$159,283 
$15,928 
Solid Waste Coordinator 
200 
0.10 
$168,982 
$16,898 
200 
0.1 
$168,982 
$16,898 
Flat rate cost estimate 
for educational materials Materials cost 
NA 
NA 
NA 
-- 
NA 
NA 
NA 
$1000 
Implement an 
outreach 
messaging 
campaign 
City-wide- will conduct 
outreach on social 
media and may conduct 
direct outreach at 
businesses, industrial 
facilities, schools, parks 
City staff develops and 
implements social media 
campaign 
City Communications and 
Public Relations Analyst 
100 
0.05 
$159,283 
$7,964 
100 
0.05 
$159,283 
$7,964 
Solid Waste Coordinator 
100 
0.05 
$168,982 
$8,449 
100 
0.05 
$168,982 
$8,449 
Flat rate cost estimate 
for outreach materials 
Materials cost 
NA 
NA 
NA 
-- 
NA 
NA 
NA 
$1000 
Overhead Costs 
NA 
Provide oversight of 
above projects 
Env. Compliance Coordinator 
20 
0.01 
$168,982 
$1,690 
20 
0.01 
$168,982 
$1,690 
  
  
Totals 
620 
0.31 
-- 
$50,930 
620 
0.31 
-- 
$52,930 
 a One Full Time Equivalent (FTE) position is assumed to be 2,000 staff hours in a given year. 
82 of 179

--- page 83 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
35 
 
2.9 
Municipal Ordinance – Single-use Plastic Food Service Ware 
The City Berkeley recently adopted and San Mateo Unincorporated County is considering the adoption of 
a comprehensive Single-use Plastic Food Service Ware Ordinance that will ultimately ban the 
use/distribution of single-use takeout food-ware for all food vendors. Adopting a similar ordinance would 
reduce the amount of single-use takeout food-ware litter in the City, which is a main source of litter in the 
City. Reducing the amount of single-use takeout food-ware litter in the City would contribute to trash 
reduction in the City as a whole. Based on currently discussions with Regional Water Board staff, it is 
unknown whether the reissued MRP will provide trash load reduction “source control credit” towards this 
action, or whether the reductions will need to be observed via OVTAs. Based on previous studies 
evaluating the types of trash in MS4s and the successes that municipalities have had in the Bay Area in 
reducing the use of Expanded Polystyrene (EPS) food ware, it anticipated that the adoption, 
implementation and enforcement of a comprehensive Single-use Plastic Food Service Ware Ordinance 
could assist the City in reducing up to 15% of the litter observed on streets and sidewalks.  
Existing Trash Control Ordinances 
The City does not currently have an ordinance in place relating to single-use plastic food ware. The City 
has implemented the following ordinances to reduce the use/distribution of litter-prone items: 
 
 
Single-Use Plastic Bag Ordinance 
The Single-Use plastic bag ordinance banned single-use plastic bag use in the City and installed a 
fee on paper and reusable plastic bags. The Single-Use plastic bag ordinance went into effect on 
January 1, 2015. This ordinance is implemented to reduce the environmental impact of single-use 
bag litter in the City. As reported in the City’s Annual Report, the single-use bag ban has reduced 
trash in stormwater by roughly 6%. 
 
Expanded Polystyrene (EPS) Ordinance  
The City adopted the Expanded Polystyrene (EPS) Ordinance on May 6, 2013. This ordinance bans 
the use of EPS packaging for take-out food ware throughout the City, with the goal of reducing 
the environmental impacts of this type of litter. As reported in the City’s Annual Report, this 
ordinance has reduced trash in stormwater by roughly 4%. 
Cost Estimates for Enhanced Actions 
The preliminary, planning-level cost estimates associated with the planning and implementation of a 
Single-use Plastic Food Service Ware Ordinance in the City is presented in Table 12. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
83 of 179

--- page 84 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
36 
 
Table 12. Preliminary Planning-Level Costs estimates for adopting and implementing a Single-use Plastic Food Service Ware Ordinance. 
Summary of Enhancement 
City Staff Implementing Task 
Base/Initial Tasks 
On-going/Annual Tasks 
Estimated Staffing 
Annual FTE 
Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Estimated Staffing 
(annual) 
Annual FTE 
Rate 
(Fully 
Burdened) 
Estimated 
Costs 
Tasks 
Geographical 
Span of 
Implementation 
Assumptions 
Hours 
Portion  
of FTEa 
Hours 
Portion  
of FTEa 
Draft a single-use plastic 
food ware ban ordinance 
and provide staff support on 
the adoption and 
implementation of this 
ordinance. Ordinance could 
include items such as cups, 
lids, utensils, straws, 
clamshells, and other 
disposable items. 
Entire City  
Assumes the City will use 
similar ordinances (i.e. 
Berkeley, San Mateo 
Unincorporated County- 
Under Development) as a 
draft template, minimizing 
planning hours 
City Solid Waste Coordinator 
500 
0.25 
$168,982 
$42,246 
-- 
-- 
-- 
 --  
Create outreach to 
applicable businesses on the 
ordinance, alternative 
products, etc. Coordinate 
communications with 
business owners. 
Create and implement an 
outreach program to 
advertise new ordinance 
City Solid Waste Coordinator 
500 
0.25 
$168,982 
$42,246 
-- 
-- 
-- 
 --  
Outreach Materials Cost 
NA 
-- 
  -- 
-- 
$1,000 
-- 
-- 
-- 
 --  
Inspect businesses to 
enforce the single-use 
plastic food ware ban 
Assumes 500 of 630 
commercial business will be 
inspected for compliance 
with ordinance 
 
1 hour per inspection 
(Includes driving time and 
tracking/data entry) 
City Inspector 
-- 
  -- 
-- 
 --  
500 
0.25 
$138,545 
$34,636 
Overhead Costs 
Provide oversight of above 
tasks 
Env. Compliance 
Coordinator 
20 
0.01 
$168,982 
$1,690 
20 
0.01 
$168,982 
$1,690 
 
Totals 
1020 
0.51 
-- 
$87,181 
520 
0.26 
-- 
$36,326 
 a One Full Time Equivalent (FTE) position is assumed to be 2,000 staff hours in a given year. 
84 of 179

--- page 85 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
37 
 
2.10 Summary of Potential New or Enhanced Source Controls 
The costs and benefits potential new or enhanced trash control measures described in the previous 
sections are summarized in Table 13. Costs are presented as base/initial costs, on-going/annual costs, and 
50-year lifecycle costs. Base/initial costs are associated with design and capital (i.e., 
construction/fabrication, installation, etc.) for large and small full capture systems, and the development, 
adoption, and upfront costs for institutional and source controls. On-going/annual costs are associated 
with the on-going costs to the City to maintain, implement, replace, and/or enforce the trash control 
measure. 50-year lifecycle costs are based on the sum of base/initial costs and the average annual 
implementation costs over a 50-year timeframe. Lifecycle costs have not been adjusted for inflation and 
assume that average on-going/annual costs would remain consistent of the 50-year timeframe. The cost 
estimates presented in Table 14 are used in Section 3.0 to compare multiple trash control measure 
implementation scenarios that are intended to achieve the MRP goal of 100% trash load reduction. 
The estimated maximum trash reduction benefit is also included in Table 13. The estimated maximum 
benefit is based on the City’s baseline trash generation map and the remaining trash levels that need to 
be reduced via full capture systems or other controls to achieve full capture system equivalency (i.e., 
100% trash load reduction – as calculated). Where trash reduction benefit information was not available 
for a specific control measure, best professional judgement was used to estimate the maximum potential 
benefit of implementing a control measure.  
 
Table 13. Summary of the estimated costs and trash reduction benefits of implementing potential new or 
enhanced trash control measures.a 
Control Measure 
Base/Initial 
Tasks 
On-going/Annual 
Tasks 
50 Year Lifecycle Costs 
Potential Maximum 
Additional Reduction 
Publicly-Owned Large 
Full Capture System 
$495,835 
$6,019 
$796,771 
12.4% 
Publicly-Owned Small 
Full Capture Systems 
$687,868 
$251,298 
$13,252,765 
39.5%f 
Full Capture 
Requirement for Private 
Properties 
$53,189 
$1,732 
$139,779 
14.6% 
Enhanced Municipal 
Trash Inspection 
Programb 
NA 
$87,529 
$4,376,436 
38.5% 
Publicly-Owned Curb 
Inlet Screens 
$391,999 
$31,684 
$1,976,210 
42.7% 
Enhanced Municipal 
Street Sweeping 
$72,205 
$42,145 
$2,179,474 
42.7% 
Expanded On-Land 
Cleanups 
NA 
$40,812 
$2,040,598 
Unknownc 
Enhanced City-Wide 
Public Education and 
Outreach Program 
$50,930 
$52,930 
$2,697,408 
5%d 
Municipal Ordinance – 
Single-use Plastic Food 
Service Ware 
$87,181 
$36,326 
$1,903,484 
15%e 
TOTAL 
$1,839,207 
$550,474 
$29,362,925 
-- 
a These values are calculated using the 2019 value of the US Dollar. 
b These values combine properties that drain to the public ROW and properties that drain to inlets on private properties into one cost estimate. 
In some scenario sections, these categories will be split with a proportion of the total cost estimates that is consistent with the proportion of 
acreage that each category holds in the City. 
c Estimates vary based on where on-land cleanups occur, thus no maximum reductions were calculated. 
d This is a qualitative estimate based the maximum demonstrated reduction by a public education and outreach program.  
e Based on information regarding the proportion of trash in stormwater that is single-use plastic food ware and the estimated effectiveness of the 
potential ordinance.  
fThis number differs from the estimate made in Appendix C because of discrepancies in what areas are addressed by these trash full capture 
devices. This number assumes that installing small inlet devices in the remaining public and private  inlets in the City will achieve 100% trash 
reduction level. This calculation also factors in trash reduction credit for the upcoming Coyote Catchment large full capture device that is 
currently being installed in the City. 
85 of 179

--- page 86 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
38 
 
3. 
Trash Control Measure Implementation Scenarios 
There are a number of different combinations of the trash control measure implementation scenarios 
that the City could choose to implement to enhance the reduction of trash in stormwater. Eight (8) 
scenarios are described in this section (Table 14). Each scenario was selected based on existing 
information on the benefits of the associated control measures included in each scenario. It is estimated 
that each scenario could achieve 100% trash reduction in the City if fully implemented. The preliminary 
planning level cost estimates for each scenario are included in this Section. 
 
Table 14. Implementation scenarios for new/enhanced trash control measure evaluated in the City of San 
Mateo. 
Implementation Scenario 
New/Enhanced Trash Control Measures 
Large Full 
Capture 
Controls for Addressing 
Trash on Public ROWs and 
throughout the City 
Controls for Addressing Trash on 
Private Properties 
Small Full 
Capture 
Other Actions 
Small Full 
Capture 
Other Actions 
0 – No New Actions 
 
 
 
 
 
Trash Full Capture Approaches 
1a – All Full Capture (Large and 
Small Devices) 
X 
X 
 
X 
 
1b – All Full Capture (Small 
Devices) 
 
X 
 
X 
 
Trash Full Capture & Institutional/Source Control Approaches 
2a – Full Capture (Large and 
Small Devices) and Other 
Actions 
X 
X 
 
 
X 
2b – Full Capture (Large and 
Small Devices) and Other 
Actions 
X 
 
X 
X 
 
2c – Full Capture (Small 
Devices) and Other Actions  
 
X 
 
 
X 
2d – Full Capture (Large 
Device) and Other Actions  
X 
 
X 
 
X 
2e – Full Capture (Large and 
Small Devices) and Other 
Actions  
X 
 
X 
X 
 
Institutional/Source Control Approaches 
3 – Other Actions (no trash full 
capture devices) 
 
 
X 
 
X 
 
86 of 179

--- page 87 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
39 
 
These eight scenarios are organized in the following way: 
• 
Scenario 0 outlines the other source control measures the City currently implements in the event 
that the City choses to only continue to implement existing controls, and not implement new or 
enhanced trash control measures. 
• 
Scenarios 1a/b evaluate the installation of large and small trash full capture devices vs the 
installation of small trash full capture devices to address trash from land areas draining to the 
public ROW and inlets on private property. 
• 
Scenarios 2a/b/c/d/e evaluate a combination of large and/or small trash full capture devices to 
address a portion of the remaining trash generating areas in the City and other 
institutional/source control actions to reduce trash in the remaining areas that would not be 
addressed by trash full capture devices. These scenarios also evaluate the different 
institutional/source control actions that could be implemented in areas that drain to the public 
ROW vs. areas that drain to inlets on private properties. 
• 
Scenario 3 outlines new or enhanced institutional/source control measures that the City could 
implement if it would choose to not install (or require private properties to install) additional 
large or small trash full capture devices. 
3.1 Scenario 0: No New Actions 
In Scenario 0, the City would implement no new or enhanced trash control measures, and instead rely on 
the measures it currently has in place to achieve the 100% trash reduction goal outlined by the MRP. By 
implementing this scenario, the City would incur no new costs. However, in this scenario it is assumed 
that the City would continue to implement existing/planned controls indefinitely and the regulatory 
crediting system for source control in the current version of the MRP, which is unlikely. The City currently 
implements the following trash control measures: 
• 
Existing/Planned Large Systems (Poplar-Dore and Coyote) 
• 
Existing 142 small systems 
• 
Continued street sweeping, team up to cleanup, illegal dumping prevention/abatement, and 
other ongoing actions at current level 
• 
Continued implementation of Single-use Plastic Grocery Bag and Expanded Polystyrene Food 
ware Ordinance. Assumes load reduction credits in MRP 2.0 continue into the future 
• 
Cost burden largely/entirely on City. Assumes no new costs since no new/enhanced actions 
would be put into place 
Based on data collected to-date, this scenario leaves the City with a low level of certainty in achieving the 
100% trash load reduction goal and a high risk of non-compliance with the ultimate MRP trash reduction 
goal. 
3.2 Scenario 1a: Full Capture - Large and Small Systems 
In scenario 1a, the City would install and maintain one (1) additional large full capture system at the 
Poplar-Golf Course location and small trash full capture systems in all 619 inlets in the public ROW. The 
City would also require the installation of small trash capture systems in inlets on private properties 
determined to generate moderate, high or very high levels of trash. These actions would address all 
remaining trash-generating areas in the City via a combination of large and small trash full capture 
systems. The cost burden of installing and maintaining small capture systems on private properties would 
be mostly on the owners of the properties. Under the current MRP regulatory framework, there is a high 
87 of 179

--- page 88 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
40 
 
level of confidence in this scenario achieving the 100% MRP trash reduction goal. The preliminary 
planning level costs associated with scenario are included in Table 15. 
 
Table 15. Preliminary planning level cost estimates for implementing trash control measure Scenario 1a. 
 
3.3 Scenario 1b: Full Capture - All Small Systems 
In scenario 1b, the City would install and maintain small trash full capture systems in all remaining inlets 
in the public ROW that are associated with moderate or high trash generating areas. The City would also 
require the installation of small trash capture systems in inlets on private properties determined to 
generate moderate, high or very high levels of trash. These actions would address all remaining trash-
generating areas in the City via small trash full capture systems. The cost burden of installing and 
maintaining small capture systems on private properties would be mostly on the owners of the 
properties. Under the current MRP regulatory framework, there is a high level of confidence in this 
scenario achieving the 100% MRP trash reduction goal. The preliminary planning level costs associated 
with scenario are included in Table 16. 
 
Table 16. Preliminary planning level cost estimates for implementing trash control measure Scenario 1b. 
Control Measure 
Base/Initial Tasks 
On-going/Annual Tasks 
50 Year Lifecycle Costs 
Publicly-Owned Small Full 
Capture Systems 
(Installed in Poplar Golf 
Course Catchment) 
$116,000 
$46,400 
$2,436,000 
Publicly-Owned Small Full 
Capture Systems 
(Installed in other public 
ROW inlets) 
$687,868 
$251,298 
$13,252,765 
Full Capture Requirement 
for Private Properties 
$53,189 
$1,732 
$139,779 
Totals 
$857,057  
$299,430  
$15,828,544  
Control Measure 
Base/Initial Tasks 
On-going/Annual Tasks 
50 Year Lifecycle Costs 
Publicly-Owned Large Full 
Capture System (Installed 
in Poplar Golf Course 
Catchment) 
$495,835 
$6,019 
$796,771 
Publicly-Owned Small Full 
Capture Systems 
$687,868 
$251,298 
$13,252,765 
Full Capture Requirement 
for Private Properties 
$53,189 
$1,732 
$139,779 
Totals 
$1,236,892  
$259,049  
$14,189,315  
88 of 179

--- page 89 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
41 
 
3.4 Scenario 2a: Full Capture Systems and Enhanced Trash Inspections 
In this scenario, all remaining moderate or high trash generating areas that drain to the public ROW in the 
City will be covered by either a large or small trash full capture devices. The remaining moderate or high 
trash generating areas that drain to inlets on private properties would be addressed by an Enhanced 
Trash Inspection Program that would identify trash levels on private properties and require property 
owners to implement additional actions to reduce trash to a low trash generating level or install a full 
capture system(s). The City would conduct OVTAs to verify low trash generation or full capture O&M 
inspections to ensure adequate implementation of trash controls on private properties. The cost burden 
of installing and maintaining full capture systems or implementing controls with equivalent trash 
reduction on private properties would be mostly placed on the owners of the properties. Under the 
current MRP regulatory framework, there is a moderate-high level of confidence in this scenario 
achieving the 100% MRP trash reduction goal. The preliminary planning level costs associated with 
scenario are included in Table 17. 
 
Table 17. Preliminary planning level cost estimates for implementing trash control measure Scenario 2a. 
Control Measure 
Base/Initial Tasks 
On-going/Annual Tasks 
50 Year Lifecycle Costs 
Publicly-Owned Large Full 
Capture System (Installed 
in Poplar Golf Course 
Catchment) 
$495,835 
$6,019 
$796,771 
Publicly-Owned Small Full 
Capture Systems 
(installed in other inlets in 
the public ROW) 
$687,868 
$251,298 
$13,252,765 
Enhanced Municipal Trash 
Inspection Program 
(Conducted on private 
trash-generating 
properties that contain 
inlets) 
-- 
$23,560 
$1,177,994 
Totals 
$1,183,703  
$280,877  
15,227,530  
 
3.5 Scenario 2b: Large Full Capture System & Multiple 
Institutional/Source Controls 
In this scenario, all remaining moderate or high trash generating areas are either addressed by a large 
trash full capture device and the following institutional and source controls: 
• 
Areas draining to the public ROW: 
o Increased street sweeping frequencies and parking enforcement; 
o Auto-retractable curb-inlet screens on inlets; 
89 of 179

--- page 90 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
42 
 
o Expanded On-land Cleanups (Team up to cleanup); 
o Enhanced Trash Inspection Program; 
o Enhanced City-wide Public Education and Outreach Program for Litter; 
• 
Areas draining to inlets on private properties: 
o City develops, adopts and enforces a full capture requirement for property owners to 
install and maintain full capture systems to address all trash generating areas draining to 
private storm drain inlets. City conducts O&M inspections to ensure proper maintenance 
of devices. 
The cost burden of installing and maintaining full capture systems on private properties would be mostly 
placed on the owners of the properties. Under the current MRP regulatory framework, there is a 
moderate-high level of confidence in this scenario achieving the 100% MRP trash reduction goal. The 
preliminary planning level costs associated with scenario are included in Table 18. 
 
Table 18. Preliminary planning level cost estimates for implementing trash control measure Scenario 2b. 
Control Measure 
Base/Initial Tasks 
On-going/Annual Tasks 
50 Year Lifecycle Costs 
Publicly-Owned Large Full 
Capture System 
$495,835 
$6,019 
$796,771 
Trash Controls on Private 
Property – Full Capture 
Requirement 
$53,189 
$1,732 
$139,779  
Enhanced Municipal Trash 
Inspection Program (Private 
Properties that drain to the 
Public ROW) 
-- 
$66,904 
$3,345,200  
Curb Inlet Screens on Publicly-
Owned Inlets 
$391,999 
$31,684 
$1,976,210 
Enhanced Municipal Street 
Sweeping 
$72,205 
$42,145 
$2,179,474 
Expanded On-Land Cleanups 
-- 
$40,812 
$2,040,598 
Enhanced City-Wide Public 
Education and Outreach 
Program 
$50,930 
$52,930 
$2,697,408 
Municipal Ordinance – Single-
use Plastic Food Service Ware 
$87,181 
$36,326 
$1,903,484 
Totals 
$1,151,339  
$278,552  
$15,078,924  
 
90 of 179

--- page 91 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
43 
 
3.6 Scenario 2c: Large Full Capture System & Multiple 
Institutional/Source Controls 
This scenario slightly differs from Scenario 2b. In this scenario, all remaining moderate or high trash 
generating areas are either addressed by a large trash full capture device and the following institutional 
and source controls: 
• 
Areas draining to the public ROW: 
o Increased street sweeping frequencies and parking enforcement; 
o Auto-retractable curb-inlet screens on inlets; 
o Expanded On-land Cleanups (Team up to cleanup); 
o Enhanced Trash Inspection Program; 
o Enhanced City-wide Public Education and Outreach Program for Litter; 
• 
Areas draining to inlets on private properties: 
o City implements an Enhanced Trash Inspection Program to identify trash levels on private 
properties and requires property owners to implement additional actions to reduce trash 
to a low trash generating level or install full capture. City conducts OVTAs to verify low 
trash generation or full capture O&M inspections. 
The cost burden of installing and maintaining full capture systems or implementing equivalent control 
measures on private properties would be mostly placed on the owners of the properties. Under the 
current MRP regulatory framework, there is a moderate-high level of confidence in this scenario 
achieving the 100% MRP trash reduction goal. The preliminary planning level costs associated with 
scenario are included in Table 19. 
 
 
 
91 of 179

--- page 92 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
44 
 
Table 19. Preliminary planning level cost estimates for implementing trash control measure Scenario 2c. 
Control Measure 
Base/Initial Tasks 
On-going/Annual Tasks 
50 Year Lifecycle Costs 
Publicly-Owned Large Full 
Capture System 
$495,835 
$6,019 
$796,771 
Enhanced Municipal Trash 
Inspection Program (Private 
Properties that contain a Private 
Inlet) 
-- 
$23,560 
$1,178,000  
Enhanced Municipal Trash 
Inspection Program (Private 
Properties that drain to the 
Public ROW) 
-- 
$66,904 
$3,345,200  
Publicly-Owned Curb Inlet 
Screens 
$391,999 
$31,684 
$1,976,210 
Enhanced Municipal Street 
Sweeping 
$72,205 
$42,145 
$2,179,474 
Expanded On-Land Cleanups 
-- 
$40,812 
$2,040,598 
Enhanced City-Wide Public 
Education and Outreach 
Program 
$50,930 
$52,930 
$2,697,408 
Municipal Ordinance – Single-
use Plastic Food Service Ware 
$87,181 
$36,326 
$1,903,484 
Totals 
$1,098,150  
$300,380  
$16,117,145  
 
 
3.7 Scenario 2d: Small Full Capture Systems & Enhanced Trash 
Inspection Program on Private Properties 
This scenario slightly differs from Scenario 1b, in that an Enhanced Trash inspection Program is employed 
for trash on private properties with inlets, as opposed to requiring that full capture systems be installed 
on these properties. In this scenario, all remaining moderate or high trash generating areas draining to 
the pubic ROW are addressed by small full capture devices and the City implements an Enhanced Trash 
Inspection Program to identify trash levels on private properties and requires property owners to 
implement additional actions to reduce trash to a low trash generating level or install full capture. The 
City also conducts OVTAs to verify low trash generation or conducts full capture O&M inspections to 
ensure proper maintenance of these devices. The cost burden of installing and maintaining full capture 
systems or implementing equivalent control measures on private properties would be mostly placed on 
the owners of the properties. Under the current MRP regulatory framework, there is a moderate-high 
level of confidence in this scenario achieving the 100% MRP trash reduction goal. The preliminary 
planning level costs associated with scenario are included in Table 20. 
 
 
92 of 179

--- page 93 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
45 
 
Table 20. Preliminary planning level cost estimates for implementing trash control measure Scenario 2d. 
Control Measure 
Base/Initial Tasks 
On-going/Annual Tasks 
50 Year Lifecycle Costs 
Publicly-Owned Small Full 
Capture Systems 
$687,868 
$251,298 
$13,252,765 
Enhanced Municipal Trash 
Inspection Program (On 
Private Properties that contain 
a Private Inlet) 
-- 
$23,560 
$1,178,000  
Totals 
$687,868 
$274,858  
$14,430,765  
3.8 Scenario 2e: Multiple Institutional/Source Controls in the Public 
ROW & Full Capture Systems on Private Properties  
This scenario slightly differs from Scenario 2c. In this scenario, all remaining trash generating areas on 
private properties are addressed through an Enhanced Trash Inspection Program implemented by the 
City to identify trash levels on private properties and require property owners to implement additional 
actions to reduce trash to a low trash generating level or install full capture. The City also conducts OVTAs 
to verify low trash generation or conducts full capture O&M inspections to ensure proper maintenance of 
these devices. Trash generating areas draining to the public ROW would be addressed through the 
following institutional and source controls: 
o Increased street sweeping frequencies and parking enforcement; 
o Auto-retractable curb-inlet screens on inlets; 
o Expanded On-land Cleanups (Team up to cleanup); 
o Enhanced Trash Inspection Program; and 
o Enhanced City-wide Public Education and Outreach Program for Litter. 
The cost burden of installing and maintaining full capture systems or implementing equivalent control 
measures on private properties would be mostly placed on the owners of the properties. Under the 
current MRP regulatory framework, there is a moderate level of confidence in this scenario achieving the 
100% MRP trash reduction goal. The preliminary planning level costs associated with scenario are 
included in Table 21. 
 
 
93 of 179

--- page 94 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
46 
 
Table 21. Preliminary planning level cost estimates for implementing trash control measure Scenario 2e. 
Control Measure 
Base/Initial Tasks 
On-going/Annual Tasks 
50 Year Lifecycle Costs 
Full Capture Requirement for 
Private Properties 
$53,189 
$1,732 
$139,779 
Enhanced Municipal Trash 
Inspection Program (Private 
Properties that drain to the 
Public ROW) 
-- 
$66,904 
$3,345,200  
Curb Inlet Screens on Publicly-
Owned Inlets 
$391,999 
$31,684 
$1,976,210 
Enhanced Municipal Street 
Sweeping 
$72,205 
$42,145 
$2,179,474 
Expanded On-Land Cleanups 
-- 
$40,812 
$2,040,598 
Enhanced City-Wide Public 
Education and Outreach 
Program 
$50,930 
$52,930 
$2,697,408 
Municipal Ordinance – Single-
use Plastic Food Service Ware 
$87,181 
$36,326 
$1,903,484 
Totals 
$655,504  
$272,533  
$14,282,153  
 
3.9 Scenario 3: Only Institutional/Source Controls 
This scenario slightly differs from Scenario 2c. In this scenario, all remaining moderate or high trash 
generating areas are addressed solely by additional institutional/source controls. No new full capture 
systems are installed as part of this implementation scenario. The following institutional and source 
controls would be implemented: 
• 
Areas draining to the public ROW: 
o Increased street sweeping frequencies and parking enforcement; 
o Auto-retractable curb-inlet screens on inlets; 
o Expanded On-land Cleanups (Team up to cleanup); 
o Enhanced Trash Inspection Program; 
o Enhanced City-wide Public Education and Outreach Program for Litter; 
• 
Areas draining to inlets on private properties: 
o City implements an Enhanced Trash Inspection Program to identify trash levels on private 
properties and requires property owners to implement additional actions to reduce trash 
to a low trash generating level or install full capture. City conducts OVTAs to verify low 
trash generation or conducts full capture O&M inspections to ensure proper 
maintenance of devices installed on private properties. 
94 of 179

--- page 95 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
47 
 
The cost burden of implementing control measures on private properties would be mostly placed on the 
owners of the properties. Under the current MRP regulatory framework, there is a moderate level of 
confidence in this scenario achieving the 100% MRP trash reduction goal. The preliminary planning level 
costs associated with scenario are included in Table 22. 
 
Table 22. Preliminary planning level cost estimates for implementing trash control measure Scenario 3. 
Control Measure 
Base/Initial Tasks 
On-going/Annual Tasks 
50 Year Lifecycle Costs 
Enhanced Municipal Trash 
Inspection Program (On 
Private Properties that 
contain a Private Inlet) 
-- 
$23,560 
$1,178,000  
Enhanced Municipal Trash 
Inspection Program (On 
Private Properties that 
drain to the Public ROW) 
-- 
$66,904 
$3,345,200 
Curb Inlet Screens on 
Publicly-Owned Inlets 
$391,999 
$31,684 
$1,976,210 
Enhanced Municipal Street 
Sweeping 
$72,205 
$42,145 
$2,179,474 
Expanded On-Land 
Cleanups 
-- 
$40,812 
$2,040,598 
Enhanced City-Wide Public 
Education and Outreach 
Program 
$50,930 
$52,930 
$2,697,408 
Municipal Ordinance – 
Single-use Plastic Food 
Service Ware 
$87,181 
$36,326 
$1,903,484 
Totals 
$602,315  
$294,361  
$15,320,374  
 
 
 
95 of 179

--- page 96 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
48 
 
3.10 Comparison of Trash Control Measure Implementation Scenarios 
The estimated costs of implement the eight (8) different trash control measure implementation scenarios 
described in this section are compared in Table 24. The estimated levels of confidence that each scenario 
will achieve the overall MRP trash reduction goal of 100% (i.e., no adverse effects) are also summarized in 
Table 23.  
Table 23. Summary table of trash control measure implementation scenario costs. 
Implementation Scenario 
Base/Initial  
Tasks 
On-
going/Annual 
Tasks 
50 Year Lifecycle 
Costs 
Confidence in 
Achieving MRP 
Trash Reduction 
Goal 
0 – No New Actions 
-- 
-- 
-- 
Low 
1a: Full Capture - Large and Small 
Systems 
$1,236,892  
$259,049  
$14,189,315  
High 
1b: Full Capture - All Small Systems 
$857,057  
$299,430  
$15,828,544  
High 
2a: Full Capture Systems and 
Enhanced Trash Inspections 
$1,183,703  
$280,877  
$15,227,530  
Moderate- High 
2b: Large Full Capture System & 
Multiple Institutional/Source 
Controls 
$1,151,339  
$278,552  
$15,078,924  
Moderate- High 
2c: Large Full Capture System & 
Multiple Institutional/Source 
Controls 
$1,098,150  
$300,380  
$16,117,145  
Moderate- High 
2d: Small Full Capture Systems & 
Enhanced Trash Inspection Program 
on Private Properties 
$687,868 
$274,858  
$14,430,765  
Moderate- High 
2e: Multiple Institutional/Source 
Controls in the Public ROW & Full 
Capture Systems on Private 
Properties 
$655,504  
$272,533  
$14,282,153  
Moderate 
3: Only Institutional/Source Controls 
$602,315  
$294,361  
$15,320,374  
Moderate 
 
4. 
Conclusions 
The City currently implements a significant trash control measure program, which has led to the 
achievement of MRP trash reduction goals to-date (i.e., 40%, 70%, and 80%). However, the City will likely 
need to enhance many of its existing trash control measures, as well as begin implementing new trash 
control measures to address trash in its remaining moderate and high trash generating areas to address 
the 100% trash reduction requirement. Eight (8) potential trash control measure implementation 
scenarios were developed, and the associated costs of these scenarios were estimated to help the City 
identify the resources needed to achieve the 100% trash reduction goal. These scenarios each have 
different base/initial costs and ongoing/annual costs, and levels of confidence that they will allow the City 
to achieve the MRP (100%) trash reduction goal. 
96 of 179

--- page 97 ---
Stormwater Trash Control Measures Evaluation 
December 2019 
49 
 
5. 
References 
BASMAA (2017). Tracking California’s Trash Project: Evaluation of the On-land Visual Assessment Protocol 
as a Method to Establish Baseline Levels of Trash and Detect Improvements in Stormwater Quality. 
Bay Area Stormwater Management Agencies Association. State Water Resources Control Board 
Grant Agreement No. 12-420-550. Prepared by EOA, Inc. 
http://basmaa.org/Announcements/tracking-cas-trash-on-land-visual-assessments. 
EOA, Inc, In prep. Trash Reduction Effectiveness of Curb Inlet Screens. In preparation by EOA. 
City of San Jose (2016). Street Sweeping: Significant Investment and Re-Tooling are Needed to Achieve 
Cleaner Streets. Prepared by Sharon W. Erickson. 
Moeur, Richard C. (2019). Costs of Traffic Signs. October 30, 2019. Manual of Traffic Signs, 
http://www.trafficsign.us/signcost.html. 
 
97 of 179

--- page 98 ---
1 
 
 
Environmental and Public Health Engineering 
 
MEMORANDUM 
 
TO: 
Sarah Scheidt (City of San Mateo) 
FROM: 
Chris Sommers, Matt Mazzoni and Alec Arditti (EOA) 
DATE: 
4/30/2019 
SUBJECT: 
Memorandum #1 - Recommended Revisions to the City of Mateo’s Baseline Trash 
Generation Map and Next Steps 
 
 
Purpose 
This memorandum serves as the first deliverable of the Trash Control Measure Planning Project being 
conducted by EOA, Inc. (EOA) for the City of San Mateo (City). This memorandum summarizes the results 
of On-land Visual Trash Assessments (OVTAs) conducted on high priority land areas in the City that drain 
to storm drain inlets on parcels. The OVTAs were conducted by EOA, in consultation with City staff, to 
evaluate needed refinements to baseline trash generation levels depicted on the City’s baseline map. 
Recommended next steps based on the results of the OVTAs are presented. 
Background 
Section C.10.a.ii.b. of the NPDES Municipal Regional Permit 2.0 (Order No. R2-2015-0049) states: 
“Permittees shall ensure that lands that they do not own or operate, but that are plumbed directly to their 
storm drain system in Very High, High, and Moderate trash generation areas are equipped with full trash 
capture systems or are managed with trash discharge control actions equivalent to or better than full 
trash capture systems. The efficacy of the latter shall be assessed with visual assessments in accordance 
with C.10.b.ii. If there is a full trash capture device downstream of these lands, no other trash control is 
required. Permittees shall map the location, or otherwise record the location, of all such lands greater than 
10,000 ft2 that are plumbed directly to their storm drain systems by July 1, 2018, including the trash 
control status of these areas. This information shall be retained by the Permittees for inspection upon 
request.” 
Via a separate agreement with the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program 
(SMCWPPP), EOA, with assistance from City staff, identified lands in FY 2017-18 that are believed to fit 
the description above. Of the 1,397 acres of trash generating areas (i.e., moderate, high or very high trash 
generating) in the City that are not currently addressed via trash full capture systems, 535 acres were 
identified through the SMCWPPP project as draining to inlets located on  parcels.1 Maps identifying these 
land areas were submitted to the SF Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board (Regional Water Board) in 
September 2018. The “trash control measure status” for each of the parcels comprising the 535 acres 
was initially identified by EOA by conducting “virtual OVTAs”. Low trash generation levels (i.e., OVTA score 
of “A”) were observed on 99% of the 535 acres during this process, suggesting that the baseline trash 
levels (as illustrated by moderate or high levels on City’s Baseline Trash Generation Map) may be 
incorrectly assigned to at least a portion of these parcels.  
                                                          
1 Inlets identified through this effort may drain to the City’s storm drain system or directly to a receiving water body. 
Determining which inlets are connected to the City’s storm drain system was beyond the scope of the SMCWPPP project. 
   
98 of 179

--- page 99 ---
Reevaluation of Baseline Trash Generation  
Based on the results of the virtual OVTAs, the City contracted with EOA to conduct field-based OVTAs on 
high priority parcels that comprised the vast majority of the 535 acres. The reassessment of trash 
generating parcels was performed by EOA as Task 1 of the City’s Trash Control Measure Planning Project. 
EOA conducted the following tasks to collect and reevaluate data on the baseline levels of trash 
generation for land areas that are: 1) believed to drain to inlets on parcels; 2) believed (via virtual OVTAs) 
to generate low baseline levels of trash; and 3) currently not addressed by trash full capture systems:   
1. Selection of Priority Parcels to Reevaluate: A total of 158 parcels identified as potential low trash 
generation areas via virtual OVTAs and believed to contain an inlet(s) on the were selected as 
areas where additional field-based OVTAs should be considered. These 158 parcels were 
prioritized based on their initial baseline trash generation level and the size of the parcel. A total 
of 116 of the 158 parcels were selected for reassessment. These parcels represent 508 of the 
535 acres of land believed to drain to inlets on parcels and are believed to potentially generate 
low levels of trash. 
2. Reassessment of Priority Parcels: Reassessments of baseline trash generation levels were then 
planned for the 116 priority parcels. Based on previous technical studies (BASMAA 2017), two 
field-based OVTA assessments using OVTA Protocol C – Area-based Survey (EOA 2018) were 
planned for each parcel to confirm: 
o Parcel accessibility;  
o Existence of an inlet; and 
o Low trash generation levels. 
Two EOA staff trained in Protocol C conducted all OVTAs. To the extent possible, assessments 
were performed directly prior to reoccurring trash control measures on parcels in order to 
depict maximum trash generation levels. Should the parcel be inaccessible, not contain an inlet 
or drain directly to a receiving water body, or already be addressed by a trash full capture 
system; no OVTA was conducted in most cases. Additionally, because two assessments events 
with “A” scores are needed to identify a parcel as “low trash generating”, if the first assessment 
event yielded an OVTA score other than an “A”, the second assessment event was canceled. 
Results of the Reevaluation 
The results of the reassessment of baseline trash generation levels are presented in Table 1 and are 
illustrated on a draft revised baseline generation map (Appendix A). In summary: 
• 
Field evaluations were conducted on a total of 116 parcels comprising 508 acres of land area in 
the City. Field evaluations identified: 
o Inaccessible & No OVTA Conducted - 7 parcels (27 acres); 
o No inlet observed on parcel - 11 parcels (24 acres);  
o Addressed by existing or planned full capture systems - 9 parcels (39 acres)2; and 
o Inlet observed, accessible, no full capture – 89 parcels (418 acres).  
• 
59 of the 89 parcels that were accessible, had an observable inlet, and were not address via full 
capture, received an “A” OVTA score during the first round of assessments.  
• 
53 of the 89 parcels that received an “A’ OVTA score during the first round of assessments, 
received an “A” OVTA during the second round of assessments. These 53 parcels (244 acres of 
                                                          
2 These parcels were located with the drainage area of the Poplar-Dore and Coyote Full Capture Systems. These parcels were 
assessed a first time just prior to receiving confirmation from the City that these systems are being constructed. Thus, the 
second assessments for these parcels were discontinued once information on this full capture area was received. 
99 of 179

--- page 100 ---
original 508 acres) are recommended for reclassification to “low trash generation (green)” on the 
City’s Baseline Trash Generation Map. 
Effects of the Reevaluation on Trash Generation and Load Reductions 
Baseline Trash Generation 
Table 1 presents the effects of the reevaluation on baseline trash generation, should the City decide to 
reclassify the 53 parcels (244 acres) to low trash generation (green). 
 
Table 1. Proposed revisions to the City of Mateo’s baseline trash generation map based on OVTA reevaluations 
conducted in 2019.  
TMA 
Original  
Baseline Trash Generation (Acres) 
Proposed Revised  
Baseline Trash Generation (Acres) 
Total 
Low 
Mod 
High 
Very High 
Low 
Mod 
High 
Very High 
1 
0 
13 
97 
0 
0 
13 
97 
0 
111 
2 
134 
394 
305 
0 
303 
272 
257 
0 
832 
3 
472 
607 
285 
0 
492 
590 
282 
0 
1365 
4A 
6 
30 
5 
0 
19 
17 
5 
0 
41 
4B 
53 
176 
32 
0 
89 
146 
25 
0 
261 
5 
4058 
26 
83 
0 
4063 
25 
79 
0 
4168 
Total 
4723 
1246 
807 
0 
4968 
1064 
744 
0 
6777 
 
 
Areas Draining to Existing/Planned Full Capture Systems and Remaining Areas Draining to the Public ROW 
and Inlets on Parcels 
Table 2 presents a summary of land areas that drain to publicly-owned existing and planned full capture 
systems, and the remaining (non-treated) land areas. The non-treated land areas are subdivided into two 
categories: 1) draining to inlets on the public right-of-way (ROW) and 2) draining to inlets located on 
parcels. Areas draining to inlets on parcels may connect to the City’s MS4 or discharge directly to a water 
body. The full capture column includes all areas that drain to installed or planned (Coyote) full capture 
systems.  
 
 
 
100 of 179

--- page 101 ---
Table 2. Land areas in the City of San Mateo that are currently addressed by existing and planned full capture 
systems and areas that are not treated by full capture systems that drain to the public ROWs and inlets on parcels.  
TMA 
Area Treated by Full Capture 
Systems (Acres)3 
Area NOT Treated by Full Capture Systems (Acres) 
Totals 
Draining to Inlets on  
Public ROW  
Draining to Inlets on  
Parcels  
Low 
Mod 
High 
Total 
Low 
Mod 
High 
Total 
Low 
Mod 
High 
Total 
1 
0 
13 
94 
107 
0 
0 
3 
3 
0 
0 
0 
0 
110 
2 
1 
1 
23 
25 
132 
184 
157 
473 
169 
87 
77 
333 
831 
3 
27 
250 
146 
423 
446 
291 
123 
860 
19 
49 
14 
82 
1365 
4A 
0 
1 
1 
2 
6 
16 
4 
26 
13 
0 
0 
13 
41 
4B 
0 
21 
7 
28 
52 
123 
18 
193 
36 
2 
0 
38 
259 
5 
212 
0 
4 
216 
3846 
23 
53 
3922 
5 
2 
22 
29 
4167 
Total 
240 
286 
275 
801 
4482 
637 
358 
5477 
242 
140 
113 
495 
6773 
 
Trash Load Reduction 
Table 3 presents the effect that reclassifying the 244 acres of land area as low trash generation has on 
trash load reductions reported by the City for full capture systems. The trash load reductions reported in 
Table 3 are only associated with existing and planned (Coyote) trash full capture systems in the City. The 
formula used to calculate the reductions via full capture systems is included in the MRP provision C.10 
and consists of the following:  
 
(Weighted) Acres Addressed Full Capture Systems 
Baseline (Weighted) Acres  
 
The load reductions included in Table 3 were calculated by dividing the weighted4 acres addressed by full 
capture systems by the original (prior to baseline reclassification) trash generation and the new (post 
baseline reclassification) trash generation, which includes the reclassified 244 acres. Please note that the 
load reduction presented does not include load reductions associated with trash booms.  
In summary, trash reductions associated with current full capture systems increases by 3.2% with the 
reclassification of the 244 acres to low trash generation. The total trash reduction via full capture systems 
currently installed5 in the City is 34.2% once the 244 acres are reclassified to low trash generation.  
 
                                                          
3 Includes acreage that will be addressed through the construction of the planned “Coyote” full capture system. 
4 Acres are weighted by the trash generation factors included in MRP provision C.10: 12 = Very High; 4 = High; 1 = Moderate; 
and 0 = Low. 
5 Includes reductions associated with the Coyote and Poplar-Dore full capture systems. 
101 of 179

--- page 102 ---
Table 3. The effects of reclassifying 244 acres of land to low trash generation on trash load reductions associated 
with current trash full capture systems.  
TMA 
Trash Load Reduction via Existing and Planned Full Capture Systems (%)6 
Prior to Baseline 
Reclassification 
 Additional via the Baseline 
Reclassification 
Post Baseline Reclassification 
(Prior + Additional) 
1 
8.7% 
1.0% 
9.7% 
2 
2.1% 
0.2% 
2.3% 
3 
18.6% 
2.0% 
20.6% 
4A 
0.1% 
0.0% 
0.1% 
4B 
1.1% 
0.1% 
1.2% 
5 
0.4% 
0.0% 
0.4% 
Total 
31.0% 
3.2% 
34.2% 
 
Remaining Trash to be Reduced 
Based on the reclassification of the 244 acres and accounting for the 34.2% trash reduction associated 
with current full capture systems, the remaining trash load that needs to be addressed  by the City is 
65.8%. As illustrated in Table 4, Trash Management Areas (TMAs) 2 and 3 contain nearly 80% of the trash 
in the City that remains to be addressed. Because these TMAs generate the lion-share of trash, they 
should likely be the focus of future trash source evaluations and full capture analyses conducted via this 
project.  
 
Table 4. Percentage of trash generated in the City of San Mateo for different Trash Management Areas (TMAs) 
based on revised baseline trash generation levels. 
TMA 
Proportion of Baseline  
Trash Generated in City  
Revised Reduction via Current 
Full Capture Systems 
% of Trash Generated in the 
City that Remains to be 
Addressed 
1 
9.9% 
9.7% 
0.2% 
2 
32.1% 
2.3% 
29.8% 
3 
42.6% 
20.6% 
22.0% 
4A 
0.9% 
0.1% 
0.8% 
4B 
6.1% 
1.2% 
4.9% 
5 
8.4% 
0.4% 
8.0% 
Totals 
100% 
34.2% 
65.8%7 
 
 
                                                          
6 Includes load reductions associated existing and planned (Coyote) full capture systems and the treatment of non-jurisdictional 
K-12 schools. 
7 Roughly 51.1% of the 65.8% load reduction that remains to be addressed is associated with land areas that a believed to drain 
to the public ROW. 
102 of 179

--- page 103 ---
Recommended Next Steps 
Based on the above information, the following near-term tasks are recommended: 
1. Finalization of Baseline Trash Generation Map – It is recommended that City staff review the 
results of the reanalysis illustrated on the attached map (Appendix A). Any comments or 
questions should be discussed with EOA staff by Monday, April 22nd. With the approval of the 
City’s Project Manager, EOA will finalize the baseline trash generation map for the purposes of 
this project. With the approval by the City’s Project Manager, revisions to the map will be 
incorporated into the City’s trash reductions reported to the Regional Water Board with their FY 
18-19 Annual Report, submitted in September 2019. If the City decides to report the load 
reduction using the revised baseline map, the City should submit their revised map with their FY 
19-20 Annual Report and post on the SMCWPPP website, replacing the previous baseline and full 
capture maps currently posted.  
 
2. Identify Areas that need Additional Trash Reduction Attention – Consistent with Task 2 of the 
project scope, EOA will begin conducting a Citywide study to identify land areas that continue to 
generate the greatest levels of trash and should be prioritized for control measure evaluation. 
This study will have an accompanying memorandum that summarizes the information reviewed 
as part of the task, the results of the evaluation, and a matrix of control measures for each land 
area (TMA and stormwater catchment) that should be evaluated. A draft of the memo and matrix 
should be completed the first week of May 2019.  
 
3. Refine and Expand Previous Full Capture Feasibility Evaluation – Once Task 1 and Task 2 are 
complete, EOA will begin conducting a Citywide Full Capture Feasibility Evaluation to identify the 
costs and benefits of installing different types of devices in various locations to address the 
overall trash reduction goal. This evaluation will come with an accompanying set of maps 
illustrating potential locations for installing large and small trash full capture systems, and one set 
of tables with the trash load reduction benefit for each potential large system and set of small 
devices. The draft feasibility evaluation report should be completed by mid-May 2019. A 
presentation on the results is also planned for late-May, where initial comments from City staff 
can be discussed. EOA staff will contact you via email to find a date that works for all staff 
involved. 
 
4. Conduct Trash Source Evaluations – As part of Task 4 of the project, EOA also plans to conduct a 
trash source evaluation in priority areas to identify the dominant sources of trash in land areas 
identified in Task 2. The source control measures will be conducted in parallel with the full 
capture feasibility study (Task 3). Priority areas will be informed by early Task 3 results and areas 
where the City believes control measures other than full capture systems should be considered. A 
map of trash sources will be delivered to the City in a draft memorandum. This study should be 
completed by mid-May 2019 in roughly the same timeframe as Task 3. 
 
5. Identify Recommended Trash Control Measures – Using data from Tasks 3-5, EOA will conduct a 
cost-benefit evaluation to identify cost-effective area-specific trash control measures that could 
be implemented by the City to successfully address MRP trash load reduction goals. 
Recommended control measures for each area will be summarized in a memorandum delivered 
in draft form in mid-June 2019. 
 
A revised project schedule is provided in Table 5. 
 
103 of 179

--- page 104 ---
Table 5. Estimated (revised) date of completion for each of the above tasks. 
Task 
# 
Task Name 
Deliverable(s) 
Date of Completion 
1 
Reassess baseline trash levels on high 
priority land areas draining to inlets on 
parcels 
Draft Memo #1 
Revised Draft Memo #1 
Final Memo #1 
 
Field datasheets and photographs  
 
Revised baseline trash generation 
map in pdf, GIS and Google Earth 
(kml) formats 
4/8/19 
4/29/19 
4/30/19 
 
5/31/19 
 
5/31/19 
2 
Identify areas that need additional 
trash reduction and the control 
measures that should be further 
evaluated 
Draft Memo #2 (includes a matrix of 
control measures for each land area 
that should be evaluated) 
 
Final Memo #2  
May 8, 2019 
 
 
 
May 22, 2019 
3 
Refine and Expand Previous Full 
Capture Feasibility Study 
Draft set of maps illustrating potential 
full cap system locations, and one set 
of tables with the trash load reduction 
benefit for each 
 
May 31, 2019 
4 
Conduct Trash Source Evaluations in 
Prioritized Stormwater Catchments and 
Evaluate Optimal Trash Control 
Measures Other than Full Capture 
Systems 
One Draft set of maps illustrating the 
dominant sources of trash in land 
areas identified in Task 2 
May 31, 2019 
5 
Identify Recommended Trash Control 
Measures 
Draft Memo #3 
Final Memo #3 
June 21, 2019 
July 19, 2019 
 
6 
Presentation of recommended trash 
control measure(s) 
Presentation 
Week of June 24th 
 
104 of 179

--- page 105 ---
8 
 
Appendix A – Results of Reevaluation of Baseline Trash Generation Levels 
 
105 of 179

--- page 106 ---
1 
 
 
Environmental and Public Health Engineering 
 
MEMORANDUM 
 
TO: 
Sarah Scheidt (City of San Mateo) 
FROM: 
Matt Mazzoni, Alec Arditti and Chris Sommers (EOA) 
DATE: 
8/1/2019 
SUBJECT: 
Tasks 2 & 4 Memorandum – Trash Sources and Potential Source Control Measures in 
Prioritized Stormwater Catchments and Trash Management Areas (TMAs)  
 
Introduction 
EOA, Inc. (EOA) is conducting Trash Control Measures Planning Project (Project) for the City of San Mateo 
(City) to evaluate the costs and benefits of implementing different types of trash controls in the City to 
address stormwater trash load reduction goals mandated by the San Francisco Bay Regional Water 
Quality Control Board (Regional Water Board). The Project includes the following tasks:  
• 
Task 1. Reassess baseline trash levels on high priority land areas draining to inlets on parcels 
• 
Task 2. Identify areas that need additional trash reduction and the control measures that should 
be further evaluated 
• 
Task 3. Refine/Expand the Previous Full Capture Evaluation into Prioritized Stormwater 
Catchments and TMAs 
• 
Task 4. Conduct Trash Source Evaluations in Prioritized Stormwater Catchments and Evaluate 
Optimal Trash Control Measures Other than Full Capture Systems 
• 
Task 5. Identify Recommended Trash Control Measure(S) for Each TMA/Catchment 
Task #1 of the Project, which recommended revisions to the City’s Baseline Trash Generation Map based 
on On-land Visual Trash Assessments (OVTAs) conducted on properties that drain to storm drain inlets 
located on those properties but connected to the City’s Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4), 
was recently completed. These revisions were documented in Memorandum #1 – Recommended 
Revisions to the City of San Mateo’s Baseline Trash Generation Map and Next Steps, which included a 
revised baseline trash generation map that was accepted by the City. 
This memorandum serves as the deliverable for Tasks #2 and #4 of the Project being conducted by EOA, 
Inc. (EOA) for the City of San Mateo (City). Maps of areas in the City that still generate substantial levels of 
trash (i.e., > low generation) and a summary of the information collected and evaluated on the sources of 
trash to these areas are included in this memorandum. The source information was attained by compiling 
existing information and collecting new information via a series of field evaluations conducted by EOA. 
The trash source information was compiled/collected and evaluated to assist the City in identifying the 
most practical trash reduction approaches (other than full capture systems) that should be considered in 
each trash generating area that is not addressed by existing or planned full capture systems.  
The results and findings included in this memorandum were developed in tandem with the Task #3 
memorandum of the Project (i.e. Expanded/Refined Trash Full Capture Feasibility Evaluation). These two 
memorandums should be evaluated in parallel by the City. The information included in this memorandum 
and the Task #3 memorandum will be used to construct a Final Report for the Project, which will include a 
cost-benefit evaluation that identifies and recommends the most cost-effective trash control measure(s), 
   
106 of 179

--- page 107 ---
2 
 
including source controls and full capture systems, to address the remaining trash generating area in the 
City. The recommendations will inform the planning of future cost-effective trash controls needed to 
address future mandated trash load reduction goals (e.g., 90% and 100%/full capture equivalency) by the 
Regional Water Board. 
Area of Analysis (Remaining Trash Generating Areas) 
The City’s revised (2019) baseline trash generation map includes 1,221 acres of land area that currently 
generates moderate or high levels of trash and are not addressed by existing full capture systems or 
systems planned for installation within the next 12-18 months (Figure 1). The trash generated from the 
1,221 acres of land area contribute roughly 67% of the City’s baseline trash load (Table 1). Roughly 793 
acres fall within ten (10) stormwater catchments that are being evaluated for large trash full capture 
systems, as described in the Task 3 memorandum, and the remaining areas that fall outside of these 
catchments that are being evaluated for small (inlet-based) systems.    
Evaluations of trash sources described in this memorandum were conducted at locations representative 
of 1,023 acres or the 1,221 acres of trash generating land areas in the City. The remaining 198 acres of 
trash generating area are within the Poplar – Golf Course stormwater catchment and was not included in 
the trash source evaluation because a large full capture system has been determined to be the most cost-
effective trash control measure for this area (see the preliminary conclusions in the Task #3 
memorandum).  
For the purpose of this memorandum, the 1,023 acres of trash generating area was organized primarily 
based on the predominate land uses present. A total of six (6) land use categories were used to 
categorize these areas. Subareas within each category were identified based on geography. Areas and 
subareas are listed in Table 1. Table 2 includes a breakdown of each trash generating area/subarea by 
stormwater catchment, defined by the potential locations being evaluated for large trash full capture 
systems. 
The trash generated from the 1,023 acres of land area where the source evaluations were conducted 
contributes nearly 58% of the City’s baseline trash load. The land area in the Polar – Golf Course 
catchment comprises an additional 8% of the baseline load. The percentages for each specific trash 
generating area/subarea are listed in Table 1. 
 
 
 
107 of 179

--- page 108 ---
3 
 
Table 1. Trash generating areas and subareas in the City of San Mateo and the associated percentage of the City’s 
baseline trash load. 
Trash Generating  
Area ID 
Predominate Land Use 
Subarea ID 
Total Moderate and High 
Trash Generating Area 
(acres) 
Total Potential Reduction 
1 
Transportation (Roads) 
E 
15.1 
1.5% 
K 
55.1 
2.2% 
L 
5.0 
0.5% 
M 
2.4 
0.2% 
N 
6.8 
0.4% 
O 
8.7 
0.9% 
P 
8.0 
0.8% 
R 
12.1 
0.4% 
2 
Freeways 
F 
7.5 
0.7% 
I 
9.8 
0.9% 
J 
4.4 
0.1% 
3 
Industrial 
K 
61.4 
2.8% 
P 
7.5 
0.7% 
4 
Commercial/Retail 
B 
4.7 
0.5% 
D 
32.6 
3.0% 
E 
7.0 
0.7% 
F 
34.3 
3.1% 
G 
54.0 
2.2% 
I 
3.4 
0.3% 
K 
50.0 
4.2% 
L 
34.2 
3.2% 
M 
11.0 
1.0% 
N 
38.9 
2.7% 
O 
51.2 
3.4% 
P 
24.8 
2.5% 
5 
Residential 
A 
25.2 
2.5% 
B 
5.5 
0.5% 
C 
24.4 
2.4% 
D 
55.9 
1.5% 
E 
22.4 
2.2% 
K 
46.0 
1.5% 
L 
21.3 
0.5% 
N 
18.5 
0.5% 
O 
38.5 
1.0% 
6 
Parks and Schools 
B 
59.0 
1.6% 
D 
7.0 
0.7% 
J 
6.2 
0.2% 
K 
14.9 
0.4% 
Poplar-Golf Course Catchment (Excluded from Source 
Evaluation-Large Full Capture System Recommended) 
198.3 
12.4% 
Totals 
1,221.1 
66.8% 
 
 
 
108 of 179

--- page 109 ---
4 
 
Table 2. Trash generating subareas in the City of San Mateo by stormwater catchment. 
 
Stormwater Catchment/Area 
Transportation 
(Streets) 
Freeways 
Industrial 
Commercial/ 
Retail 
Residential  
Parks and 
Schools 
Catchments 
Poplar – Monte Diablo 
  
  
  
4B 
5B 
6B 
Poplar – 2nd  
  
  
  
  
5C 
  
3rd & Detroit 
1E 
  
  
4E 
5E 
  
Leslie Creek @ Wastewater Plant 
1K 
2K 
3K 
4K 
5K 
6K 
Palm & 21st  
1L 
  
  
4L 
5L 
  
Borel Creek @ Trinta Park 
1M 
  
  
4M 
  
  
Delaware & Saratoga 
1N 
  
  
4N 
5N 
  
42nd Ave & Pacific 
1P 
  
3P 
4P 
  
  
Leslie Creek @ Tracks 
1K 
 
3K 
 
 
6K 
Poplar-Golf Course Catchment 
Excluded from Source Evaluation (Large Full Capture System Recommended) 
Other Areas 
North Bay-Front 
  
  
  
  
5A 
  
Lower San Mateo Creek 
  
  
  
4D 
5D 
6D 
Marina Lagoon 
  
2F 
  
4F 
  
  
Bridge Point Shopping Center 
  
  
  
4G 
  
  
Casanova 
  
2I 
  
4I 
  
  
Lower Borel Creek 
  
2J 
  
  
  
6J 
Laurel Channel 
1O 
  
  
4O 
5O 
  
Upper San Mateo Creek 
1R 
  
  
  
  
  
 
109 of 179

--- page 110 ---
5 
 
 
Figure 1: San Mateo City’s remaining trash generating areas and the associated stormwater catchments being evaluated for large trash full capture systems.
110 of 179

--- page 111 ---
6 
 
Trash Source Evaluation Methods 
Trash sources were identified for each area/subarea using a variety of information sources, including:  
• 
OVTA Data – Using trash source data from OVTAs conducted by EOA in the City over many fiscal 
years;  
• 
Illegal Dumping Locations – Using spatial data regarding reported illegal dumping events given to 
EOA by the City in 2018; 
• 
Private Trash Bin/Container Overages – Using spatial data regarding reported private trash 
bin/container overage events given to EOA by the City in 2018; 
• 
Google Street View – Using the City’s baseline trash generation map as guidance, EOA staff 
evaluated areas of concern for trash generation through google street view; and 
• 
Additional Field Observations - EOA staff evaluated areas of concern for trash generation through 
field inspections of these sites.  
The OVTA, illegal dumping, private trash bin/container overages, and Google Street View data was used in 
preliminary studies of the City as part of Task #2 to identify areas of pollution concern that were later 
checked for confirmation by additional field observations. Pollution sources identified during field 
observations determined the observed trash sources in the City outlined below. 
Observed Trash Sources and Potential Control Measures by Area 
The results of the trash source evaluation are included in this section, which is organized by trash 
generating area based on similar land uses and source characteristics. Photos of trash sources in each 
area are included in Appendix A. Table 3 summarizes trash sources that were observed and potential 
control measures that should be further considered by the City. 
Area #1: Transportation (Streets) 
Observed Trash Sources: 
• 
Roadways that have large amounts of daily traffic (e.g., 3rd Avenue and El Camino Real) are 
sources trash in the City. These roadways span through multiple subareas (1E, 1K, 1L, 1M, 1N, 1O, 
and 1P) and catchments, and are characterized by consistent littering produced by daily road use 
by vehicles.  
• 
Subareas 1P and 1R show signs of trash generation from transit stops, poor trash bin/container 
management at these stops.  
• 
Beyond daily road use, subareas 1E and 1K show further signs of trash generation from 
pedestrian use of adjacent parks (Bayshore Park and Central Park)  
• 
The remaining subareas on El Camino Real (1K, 1L, 1M, 1N, 1O, and 1P) show signs of trash 
generation from pedestrian use of adjacent commercial areas.  
Potential Control Measures:  
• 
Increased/enhanced street sweeping  
• 
Enhanced on-land cleanups  
• 
Improved trash bin/container management on sidewalks and at transit stops 
111 of 179

--- page 112 ---
7 
 
Area #2: Freeways  
Observed Trash Sources: 
• 
Relatively high trash generation levels in land areas adjacent to freeways have been identified in 
the City. Subareas 2F, 2I, and 2J are subject to higher daily traffic and field checks of these areas 
show signs of both general litter and illegal dumping.  
• 
Subarea 2F is a source of litter and illegal dumping due to its proximity to highway 101.  
• 
Subarea 2I consists of litter from the adjacent freeway that is mainly localized on non-street areas 
bordering Hillsdale Inn and the surrounding commercial and residential area.  
• 
Subarea 2J is located on the southwestern corner of the intersection between highway 101 and 
highway 92, and daily use of the freeway and the Caltrans park and ride in this area is a source of 
pollution for the City. This park-and-ride area does not appear to contain trash receptacles, 
leading to a significant amount of trash generated from daily users with no place to dispose of 
trash in bins/containers. 
Potential Control Measures:  
• 
Subarea 2F - Video surveillance for illegal dumping prevention/abatement in this area. 
• 
Subarea 2I – Collaboration with Caltrans on regular on-land cleanups to remove trash from these 
non-street areas. 
• 
Subarea 2J – Collaboration with Caltrans to add and improve trash bin/container management in 
this area. 
Area #3: Industrial Areas 
Observed Trash Sources: 
• 
Multiple industrial areas throughout the City continue to generate moderate or high levels of 
trash. These industrial subareas (3K, and 3P) are mainly adjacent to the railroad tracks and 
highway 101.  
• 
Field inspections of these areas show consistent that trash generation is mostly from industrial 
land uses, pedestrian litter, and illegal dumping.  
Potential Control Measures:  
• 
Increased/enhanced street sweeping  
• 
Video surveillance to prevent illegal dumping. 
Area #4: Commercial Areas 
Observed Trash Sources: 
• 
Commercial areas throughout the City generate moderate or high levels of trash. Trash in these 
areas is generally associated with single-use packaging associated with goods sold/distributed in 
these areas.  
• 
Field inspections of commercial subareas 4B, 4D, 4I, 4L, 4N, and 4P show litter from pedestrians 
as an important source.  
• 
Pedestrian litter and overflowing trash bins/containers were observed as sources of trash in 
subareas 4E, 4F, 4G, 4K, 4M, and 4O.  
112 of 179

--- page 113 ---
8 
 
Potential Control Measures:  
• 
Increased/enhanced street sweeping  
• 
Enhanced on-land cleanups  
• 
Improved trash bin/container management 
• 
Pollution prevention ordinances to reduce the sale/distribution of litter-prone items 
• 
Enhanced business education/outreach and inspection programs  
Area #5: Residential Areas 
Observed Trash Sources: 
• 
Multiple residential areas in the City continue to generate moderate or high levels of trash.  
• 
Field inspections of these areas show signs of pedestrian litter on residential roadways 
throughout all subsections of area 5. 
• 
Overflowing trash bins/container on sidewalks and those associated with multi-family residential 
land uses, hotels, and San Mateo Hospital were observed as trash sources in subareas 5A, 5D, and 
5O.  
Potential Control Measures:  
• 
Increased/enhanced street sweeping  
• 
Enhanced on-land cleanups  
• 
Improved trash bin/container management in subareas 5A, 5D, and 50  
Area #6: Parks and Schools 
Observed Trash Sources: 
• 
A handful of parks and schools were identified as having moderate or high trash levels in the City. 
These areas are characterized mainly by litter from pedestrians.  
• 
All parks and schools included in area #6 contain litter from pedestrians  
• 
Bayshore Park (6B), Fiesta Gardens Park (6J), and Central Park (6K) contain litter from pedestrians 
and adjacent streets and highways.  
Potential Control Measures:  
• 
On-land cleanups (possibly in collaboration with Caltrans) 
• 
Improved trash bin/container management  
• 
Increased/enhanced street sweeping in adjacent areas 
Low Current Trash Generation Areas  
In addition to the six (6) areas identified with moderate or high trash generation, there are several other 
areas in the City that are considered moderate or high trash generating on the City’s revised baseline 
trash generation map, but have been identified by EOA staff as currently generating low trash levels via 
field inspections. For these areas, no additional control measures are proposed for further evaluation. 
These areas are identified on Figure 1.   
113 of 179

--- page 114 ---
9 
 
Table 3: Source Control Measures Matrix 
Trash Generating 
Area ID  
Sub Area 
Methods Used to Identify Sources 
Potential Trash Controls Measures 
OVTA Data 
Illegal Dumping Locations 
Private Trash 
Bin/Container Overages 
Google  Street View 
Additional Field 
Observations 
Enhanced Street Sweeping 
On-Land Cleanups 
Illegal Dumping and Litter 
Prevention & Abatement 
Improved Trash 
Bin/Container 
Management 
Enhanced Business 
Outreach and Inspection 
Programs 
Pollution Prevention 
Ordinances 
1 - Streets  
1E, 1K, 1L, 1M, 1N, 
and 1O 
  
  
  
X 
X 
X 
  
X 
  
  
  
1P and 1 R 
X 
  
  
  
X 
X 
  
X 
X 
  
  
2 - Freeway   
2F 
  
X 
  
  
X 
  
  
X 
  
  
  
2I 
  
  
  
  
X 
  
X 
  
  
  
  
2J 
  
  
  
  
X 
  
  
  
X 
  
  
3 - Industrial Areas  
3K-3P 
  
X 
  
  
X 
X 
X 
X 
  
  
  
4 - Commercial Areas  
4B, 4D, 4I, 4L, 4N, 
and 4P 
  
  
  
  
X 
  
X 
X 
  
X 
X 
4E, 4F, 4G, 4K, 4M, 
and 4O 
  
  
X 
  
X 
  
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
5 - Residential Areas  
5A. 5D and 5O 
  
  
X 
  
X 
X 
X 
  
X 
  
  
5B, 5C, 5E, 5K, 5L, 
and 5N 
  
  
  
  
X 
X 
X 
  
  
  
  
6 – Parks and Schools  
6B, 6J, and 6K 
X 
  
  
  
X 
X 
X 
  
X 
  
  
6D 
  
  
  
  
X 
X 
X 
  
  
  
  
Low Trash Generating 
Areas 
-- 
  
  
  
X 
X 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
114 of 179

--- page 115 ---
10 
 
 
Summary of Potential Trash Control Measures 
Enhanced Street Sweeping 
Public agencies and private landowners conduct street sweeping to remove litter from streets and 
parking lots and reduce sediment buildup on impervious surfaces. Street sweeping studies have shown 
that under ideal conditions (i.e., slow operator speeds, good condition of the roadway surface, and 
minimal/no automobiles parked along curb) a street sweeper can remove nearly all litter from the swept 
area. However, sweeping will not remove trash from sidewalks or roadside vegetation where trash is 
often observed and may be available to the MS4. Although the City already conducts sweeping on many 
roadways, more frequent sweeping or improved sweeping conditions (e.g., removal of parked cars along 
the curb) may reduce the amount of trash observed on streets, possibly to a level of full capture system 
equivalence (FSCE). 
On-Land Cleanups  
Cleanups that remove trash from streets, sidewalks, and adjacent properties can have a significant impact 
on the levels of trash observed and available to the MS4. Cleanups can occur by agency staff, contractors 
hired as part of association and business improvement districts (BIDs), or volunteers. Based on literature 
reviews conducted, the effectiveness of on-land cleanup in reducing trash reaching the stormwater 
conveyance system has not been evaluated in the context of FCSE. That said, conducting consistent on-
land cleanups could conceptually sustain an improved level of trash (i.e., low generation) in areas with 
moderate or high baseline trash levels. The magnitude (frequency) and extent (location) to which 
cleanups would need to be conducted to observe reductions in trash to acceptable levels (i.e., FCSE) is 
likely dependent upon the baseline level of trash generation that occurs in the PLU area. The higher the 
trash generation, the more frequent trash would need to be removed to achieve the FCSE standard set 
forth by the State Water Board. The costs associated with on-land cleanups will be site-specific and 
dependent on the type (e.g., agency staff, contractor or volunteers) and number of individuals needed for 
the cleanup events, and the frequency of cleanups that would need to occur. 
Illegal Dumping and Litter Prevention/Abatement 
Successful anti-littering and illegal dumping enforcement activities include laws and ordinances that 
prohibit littering or dumping of trash on private or public properties. Laws are enforced by various 
municipal agency staff (e.g., police, sheriff and public works department staff) who issue citations in 
response to citizen complaints or other enforcement methods (e.g., surveillance cameras, signage and/or 
physical barriers installed at illegal dumping hot spots). In some California jurisdictions, the minimum fine 
for littering is $500 and the maximum penalty is $1,000. However, it is difficult to enforce small littering 
events unless they are witnessed, or solid proof exists linking the offender to the litter. As a result, 
enforcement tends to focus on larger-scale illegal dumping activities.  
The effectiveness of illegal dumping and litter prevention and abatement programs in reducing trash 
entering the MS4 is not well established. Effectiveness will likely be site-specific and dependent upon the 
strategies used to detour illegal dumping from occurring. Costs associated with these programs are also 
program-specific. Larger cities spend hundreds-of-thousands to millions each year trying to prevent and 
cleanup illegal dumping. 
Improved Trash Bin/Container Management 
Receptacles used to place/store trash or recyclables prior to collection by a public agency or private waste 
hauler reduce the potential for littering and trash loading to MS4s. The effectiveness of trash containers 
115 of 179

--- page 116 ---
11 
 
in reducing trash in stormwater conveyance systems is not well studied, however, based on literature 
reviews, the success of this control measure is likely dependent upon: 
• 
the location and density of the receptacles,  
• 
size of the bin/container in relationship to the size needed to service users,  
• 
frequency of maintenance, and  
• 
the ability of the bin/container to capture and contain the trash deposited.  
Enhanced strategies designed to improve the effectiveness of this control measure include:  
• 
Identifying whether trash containers are sufficiently located in high trash generating areas and 
are adequately designed to manage trash types that are typically generated from activities 
occurring at these areas (e.g., containers with larger openings designed to accommodate larger 
trash items (e.g., pizza boxes) are in locations where people dispose of these items (e.g., near 
schools or parks); 
• 
Increasing the level of inspection and maintenance of containers in high trash generating areas; 
• 
Installation of specialty trash bins/containers (e.g., bins for cigarette butts, sharps, etc.) in 
strategic locations to eliminate or reduce the prevalence of these items in stormwater; 
• 
Installation of new technologies (e.g., Big Belly Solar Trash Compactors) to reduce trash in 
stormwater and reduce the cost of adding trash containers or increasing the frequency of 
maintenance. 
The cost of implementing enhanced trash bin/container management actions will be site-specific.  
Other Types of On-land Actions 
In addition to the trash control measures described above, other actions implemented in an Agency’s 
jurisdiction may also improve the level of trash in stormwater. Actions may include those that reduce the 
generation of litter via source controls, such as ordinances that prohibit the distribution or sale of litter-
prone items (e.g., plastic bag bans), business inspection programs that target overflowing or inadequate 
waste management practices, or public education programs that change littering behavior; or those that 
intercept trash once littering has occurred (e.g., curb inlet screens). The reduction benefits associated 
with these actions are challenging to quantify and likely site/program-specific. That said, these actions 
can (individually or collectively) have a positive impact on the level of trash in stormwater.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
116 of 179

--- page 117 ---
12 
 
 
 
Appendix A 
Illustrations of Trash Sources Identified in Specific Areas 
within the City of San Mateo
117 of 179

--- page 118 ---
13 
 
Area #1 – Streets 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Pedestrian Litter and poorly managed trash receptacles on El Camino 
Real, Area 1K 
Figure 2: Pedestrian Litter on El Camino Real, Area 1O 
Figure 3: Transit Stop Litter on El Camino Real, Area 1R 
Figure 4: Pedestrian Litter on 3rd Ave, Area 1B 
118 of 179

--- page 119 ---
14 
 
Area #2 – Freeways 
 
 
Figure 1: Freeway Litter and Dumping site in Area 2F 
Figure 2: Freeway Litter in Park and Ride located in Area 2J 
119 of 179

--- page 120 ---
15 
 
Area #3 – Industrial Areas 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Pedestrian Litter in Industrial Area 3K 
Figure 2: Pedestrian Litter in Industrial Area 3K 
Figure 3: Illegal Dumping in Industrial Area 3K 
120 of 179

--- page 121 ---
16 
 
Area #4 – Commercial Areas 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Commercial Trash Receptacle Overage in Shoreview Shopping 
Center, Area 4E 
Figure 2: Pedestrian Litter in Parkside Plaza, Area 4F 
Figure 3: Pedestrian Litter in Bridgepoint Shopping Center, Area 4G 
Figure 4: Commercial Trash Receptacle Overage in Area 4K 
121 of 179

--- page 122 ---
17 
 
Area #5: Residential Areas 
  
 
 
Figure 1: Trash Receptacle Overage in Residential Apartment Complex, Area 5A 
Figure 2: Trash Bin Overage and Pedestrian Litter, Area 5A 
Figure 3: Pedestrian Litter in Residential Area 5E 
122 of 179

--- page 123 ---
18 
 
Area #6 – Parks and Schools 
 
 
Figure 1: Pedestrian Litter outside of Fiesta Gardens Park, Area 6J 
Figure 2: Pedestrian Litter outside of Central Park, Area 6K 
Figure 3: Pedestrian Litter outside of Bayshore Park, Area 6B 
123 of 179

--- page 124 ---
1 
 
 
Environmental and Public Health Engineering 
 
MEMORANDUM 
 
TO: 
Sarah Scheidt (City of San Mateo) 
FROM: 
Nick Zigler and Chris Sommers (EOA) 
DATE: 
8/1/2019 
SUBJECT: 
Task 3 Memorandum – Refine/Expand the Previous Full Capture Evaluation into Prioritized 
Stormwater Catchments and Trash Management Areas (TMAs) 
 
Introduction 
EOA, Inc. (EOA) is conducting Trash Control Measures Planning Project (Project) for the City of San Mateo 
(City) to evaluate the costs and benefits of implementing different types of trash controls in the City to 
address stormwater trash load reduction goals mandated by the San Francisco Bay Regional Water 
Quality Control Board. The Project includes the following tasks:  
• 
Task 1. Reassess baseline trash levels on high priority land areas draining to inlets on parcels 
• 
Task 2. Identify areas that need additional trash reduction and the control measures that should 
be further evaluated 
• 
Task 3. Refine/Expand the Previous Full Capture Evaluation into Prioritized Stormwater 
Catchments and TMAs 
• 
Task 4. Conduct Trash Source Evaluations in Prioritized Stormwater Catchments and Evaluate 
Optimal Trash Control Measures Other than Full Capture Systems 
• 
Task 5. Identify Recommended Trash Control Measure(S) for Each TMA/Catchment 
Task #1 of the Project, which recommended revisions to the City’s Baseline Trash Generation Map based 
on On-land Visual Trash Assessments (OVTAs) conducted on properties that drain to storm drain inlets 
located on those properties but connected to the City’s Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4), 
was recently completed. These revisions were documented in Memorandum #1 – Recommended 
Revisions to the City of San Mateo’s Baseline Trash Generation Map and Next Steps, which included a 
revised baseline trash generation map that was accepted by the City. 
This memorandum serves as the deliverable for Task #3 of the Trash Control Measure Planning Project 
(Project) being conducted by EOA, Inc. (EOA) for the City. This memorandum provides a cost-benefit 
analysis of installing large and small trash full capture systems within the City’s municipal separate storm 
sewer system (MS4), expanding upon a previous study that focused only on large full capture systems 
associated with stormwater pump stations. The results of the analysis are intended to provide the City 
with estimates of the trash reduction benefits and preliminary planning level costs of installing and 
maintaining trash full capture systems.  
The results and findings were developed in tandem with the memorandum describing the results of Task 
2 & 4 of the Project (i.e. Trash Sources and Potential Source Control Measures). These two 
memorandums should be evaluated in parallel by the City. The information included in this memorandum 
and the Task 2 & 4 memorandum will be used to construct a Final Report for the Project, which will 
include a cost-benefit evaluation that identifies and recommends the most cost-effective trash control 
measure(s), including both source controls and treatment controls, for each remaining trash generating 
124 of 179

--- page 125 ---
2 
 
area in the City. The recommendations will inform the planning of future cost-effective trash controls 
needed to address future mandated trash load reduction goals (e.g., 90% and 100%/full capture 
equivalency) required by the San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board. 
Area of Analysis (Remaining Trash Generating Areas) 
The City’s revised (2019) baseline trash generation map includes 1,221 acres of land area that currently 
generates moderate or high levels of trash and are not addressed by existing full capture systems or 
systems planned for installation within the next 12-18 months (Figure 1). These remaining trash 
generating areas form the area of analysis for the refined/expanded full capture evaluation described in 
this memorandum. The trash generated from these 1,221 acres contributes roughly 67% of the City’s 
baseline trash load.  
Of the 1,221 acres generating moderate and high levels of trash, roughly 793 acres fall within ten (10) 
stormwater catchments that were identified as potential locations for large trash full capture systems. 
These catchments were identified based on a combination of information, including the configuration of 
the City’s storm drain system, location of water bodies, degree of trash generation, and the findings from 
an initial full capture evaluation conducted for the City by Schaff and Wheeler and EOA in 2016. Of the 
ten (10) catchments identified, six (6) were previously identified during the 2016 Study. The boundaries 
for the ten (10) catchments are illustrated in Figure 1.  
The ten (10) catchments form the primary area of analysis costs and benefits of installing and maintaining 
large and small full capture systems were evaluated as part of the current project. The remaining trash 
generating areas (i.e., 428 acres) fall outside of these catchments and form the remainder of the area of 
analysis for the Project. These areas were evaluated for small (inlet-based) trash full capture systems. 
Existing Trash Reductions and Additional Reductions Needed 
The Municipal Regional Permit (MRP) for stormwater discharges in the Bay Area is issued by the San 
Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board (Regional Water Board) and sets trash reduction 
goals that must be achieved by Bay Area municipalities, including the City. The current goal is an 80% 
reduction by July 1, 2019. Based on the language within the current MRP, the subsequent goal that the 
City must achieve is 100% reduction (i.e, full capture equivalency) by July 1, 2022.  
Based on the City’s Final FY 2017-18 annual report and its Draft FY 18-19 annual report, the City has 
achieved the July 2019 trash reduction goal of 80%. With the planned installation of a large capture 
system at the Coyote Point Pump Station, additional reductions will be achieved by the City and reported 
in Fiscal Year (FY) 2019-20, given that this system becomes operational during that FY. All trash reductions 
calculated in this memorandum for future large and small capture systems assume that the Coyote 
system will be installed. The trash load reduction associated with all existing and planned trash capture 
systems (including Coyote) is 33.4%.1  
In addition to full capture systems, the City has also benefited from the reductions associated with Other 
Control Measures, as demonstrated by the results of On-land Visual Trash Assessments (OVTAs) 
conducted on streets and sidewalks throughout the City. The results of the City’s most recent OVTAs (FYs 
2017-18 to FY 2018-19) are presented in Figure 2. Via these OVTAs, low or low/moderate levels of trash 
have been observed at most of the sites in the City, compared to the moderate/high levels depicted on 
the City’s baseline trash generation map. As a result, the City has reported a trash reduction of roughly 
55-62% in recent FYs.  As additional full capture systems are installed by the City in areas previously 
                                                          
1 As part of this task, areas associated trash full capture systems were adjusted based on new information collected during field evaluations. This 
resulted in an adjustment of trash load reduction percentage associated with existing and planned full capture systems from 34.2% to 33.4%.  
125 of 179

--- page 126 ---
3 
 
assessed via OVTAs, the reductions associated with Other Control Measures will decrease as the 
reductions from new full capture systems increases.   
Optional trash load reduction credits for MS4s implementing source controls (e.g., single-use plastic bag 
and expanded polystyrene bans) and offsets for implementing creek and shoreline cleanups and direct 
discharge programs are also allowed under the current MRP. Regional Water Board staff has indicated, 
however, that the maximum 10% credit for source controls and some portion of the offsets (i.e., 
maximum 10% for creek cleanups and 15% maximum for direct discharge) may not be available under the 
next iteration of the MRP. Although the details of the next permit are still being negotiated and will not 
be available until late 2020, it is recommended that the City assume that source control credits and 
offsets will not be allowed under future permits. Consistent with this recommendation, this 
memorandum provides information regarding the costs and benefits of installing additional full capture 
systems to assist the City in reaching the 100% (i.e., full capture equivalency) trash reduction goal in the 
absence of source control credits and offsets that are currently providing the City more than a 10% trash 
load reduction.  
 
Table 1. Estimated trash load reduction for the City of San Mateo in FY 19-20 based on the extent of existing and 
planned full capture systems and the results of On-land Visual Trash Assessments (OVTAs) in FY 18-19.  
Trash Control Measure 
Estimated 
% Trash Reduction in FY 19-20 
Trash Full Capture Systems 
(Includes reductions from the Coyote Large Capture System and those 
associated with K-12 schools) 
33.4% 
Control Measures Other than Trash Full Capture Systems 
(Based on FY 18-19 Results) 
55.0% 
Jurisdiction-wide Source Control Actions 
10.0% 
Offset Associated with Additional Creek and Shoreline Cleanups 
TBD 
Total 
98.4% 
 
126 of 179

--- page 127 ---
4 
 
 
Figure 1. Land areas within the City of San Mateo with moderate or high baseline trash generation that are not 
addressed by existing or planned trash full capture systems. Catchments draining to potential large capture 
systems evaluated via this memorandum are also illustrated. 
127 of 179

--- page 128 ---
5 
 
 
 
Figure 2. On-land Visual Trash Assessment (OVTA) results (FY 2017-18 to FY 2018-19) for land areas within the 
City of San Mateo with moderate or high baseline trash generation that are not addressed by existing or 
planned trash full capture systems.  
128 of 179

--- page 129 ---
6 
 
Potential Trash Full Capture Systems 
A trash full capture system is defined as a single device (or a series of systems) that traps all particles that 
are 5 mm or greater and has a design treatment capacity that is either: a) of not less than the peak flow 
rate, Q, resulting from a one-year, one-hour, storm in the subdrainage area, or b) appropriately sized to, 
and designed to carry at least the same flows as, the corresponding storm drain (SFBRWQCB 2015). In 
2017, the State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) developed a list of certified full trash 
capture systems that may be installed to comply with the MRP. This list is periodically updated by the 
State Water Board. Descriptions of the general types of certified systems are provided in Appendix A. 
Certified systems include larger “end-of-pipe” and “in-line” hydrodynamic, netting and screening systems, 
and smaller screening systems installed in storm drain inlets or catch basins.  
Large Full Capture System Locations 
To identify optimal locations of potential large trash full capture systems, stormwater catchments in the 
City were identified. The boundaries of each catchment were drawn based on available information on 
the City’s storm drain network, land elevation data, and catchment boundaries obtained from the 2016 
Study.  
All major catchments throughout the City were initially delineated, even those associated large drainage 
areas near their confluence with the Bay. These catchments were then screened based on their size and 
degree of trash generation within the catchment. Relatively small catchments were excluded based on 
the findings from previous full capture cost-benefit evaluations conducted in the Bay Area, which indicate 
that large capture systems are not cost-effective actions in catchments less than 30 acres in size. Optimal 
locations were then identified for siting large capture systems at the most downstream location within 
the catchment. These locations are illustrated in Figure 1 and more detailed maps are provided in 
Appendix B.  
Please note that these locations should be considered preliminary and further evaluation of site-specific 
constraints and considerations should be conducted before the City moves forward with the selection of 
these sites for large full capture systems. Additionally, the stormwater catchments delineated and 
evaluated as part of this project task do not match Trash Management Area (TMA) boundaries 
established in 2014 based on land uses to assist the City in tracking and reporting trash load reductions. 
Catchment boundaries are based on stormwater hydrology and configuration of the City’s storm drain 
system, not land use. For the purpose of the evaluation described in this memorandum, stormwater 
catchments form the primary geographical unit of analysis, as opposed to TMAs. 
Ten (10) catchments and locations for potential large full capture systems were identified through this 
evaluation.2 Table 2 provides the catchment area draining to each of the potential large full capture 
system locations, and the estimated potential maximum load reduction percentage associated with each 
site/catchment, which is based on the extent of moderate and high trash generating areas within the 
catchment. The percentage of land area within each catchment that generates moderate or high baseline 
levels of trash is included within Table 2. Reductions associated with existing full capture systems within 
each catchment, additional reductions within the catchment that could be claimed if new full capture 
systems were installed, and the total load reduction potential for each catchment are also provided in 
Table 2. Together, the maximum potential load reduction associated with all ten (10) catchments is 
50.4%, including reductions associated with non-jurisdictional K-12 public schools. 
Figure 1 illustrates the locations of the ten (10) catchments and potential large full capture systems that 
were evaluated. Appendix B contains a detailed map of each catchment and the location of each potential 
large full capture system.  
                                                          
2 One catchment, Leslie Creek at Tracks, is a subcatchment of the Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant catchment. 
129 of 179

--- page 130 ---
7 
 
Table 2. Stormwater catchments evaluated for potential large full capture systems and their associated maximum 
trash load reduction benefit.a 
Stormwater Catchment 
Included 
in 2016 
Study 
Total 
Acres 
% of Catchment 
that Generates 
Baseline 
Moderate or High 
Levels of Trash 
Reductions 
from 
Existing Full 
Capture 
Additional 
Reduction 
via New Full 
Capture 
Total 
Potential 
Reduction 
3rd & Detroit 
Yes 
240 
27% 
0.0% 
5.0% 
5.0% 
42nd & Pacific 
Yes 
178 
23% 
0.2% 
3.8% 
4.0% 
Borel Creek at Trinta Park 
No 
695 
8% 
0.0% 
1.9% 
1.9% 
Delaware & Saratoga 
No 
121 
60% 
0.0% 
3.8% 
3.8% 
Leslie Creek at Tracks b 
No 
482 
11% 
0.0% 
3.3% 
3.3% 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
Yes 
1,226 
22% 
3.2% 
11.1% 
14.3% 
Palm & 21st 
No 
732 
11% 
0.3% 
4.5% 
4.8% 
Poplar & 2nd 
Yes 
36 
66% 
0.0% 
2.3% 
2.3% 
Poplar & Monte Diablo 
Yes 
44 
24% 
0.0% 
1.5% 
1.5% 
Poplar at Golf Course 
Yes 
376 
53% 
0.0% 
12.4% 
12.4% 
Totals c 
3,659 
22% 
3.7% 
46.3% 
50.0% 
a Includes reductions for treating non-jurisdictional K-12 schools. 
b Leslie Creek at Tracks is a subcatchment of the Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant catchment 
c Totals exclude Leslie Creek at Tracks catchments and assume that a large system would be installed at the Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
catchment. 
 
Small Full Capture System Locations 
Small trash full capture systems (e.g., connector pipe screens or catch basin inserts) installed in storm 
drain inlets or catch basins are alternatives to large trash capture systems. Locations for potential small 
capture systems were identified by selecting all publicly-owned catch basins receiving trash from adjacent 
moderate or high trash generating areas. Privately-owned catch basins were not included as part of the 
analysis because decisions have yet to be made about whether private parcels will be required to install 
and maintain small full capture systems.3 For catch basins that are hydraulically connected to each other 
(i.e. daisy-chained), some upstream catch basins were excluded from the analysis because a downstream 
small capture system would likely treat the associated upstream area. 
Based on the storm drain system network maps provided in GIS by the City, a total of 735 publicly-owned 
catch basins that receive drainage from moderate or high trash generating areas were identified as 
potential locations for small trash full capture systems. These catch basins are depicted in Figure 3, which 
differentiates the inlets that are located on a City right-of-way (ROW) and those located on El Camino 
Real, within the ROW of the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans). A full list of the inlets 
identified for consideration of small full capture systems is provided in Appendix C along with coordinates 
of each.  
                                                          
3 Given that some information on the extent and magnitude of privately-owned catch basins and associated drainage areas is available for the 
City via the recently completed study on parcels draining to inlets on private property conducted by the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution 
Prevention Program (SMCWPPP), these areas could be considered at a later date should the City decide to move forward with the installation of 
small capture systems on private properties. 
130 of 179

--- page 131 ---
8 
 
 
Figure 3. Locations of potential small (inlet-based) trash full capture systems in the City of San Mateo. Inlets located 
with Caltrans right-of-way are identified separately. 
131 of 179

--- page 132 ---
9 
 
Estimated Costs and Benefits of Small and Large Full Capture Systems 
Preliminary planning level cost estimates and estimated trash load reduction benefits associated with 
installing and maintaining full capture systems were calculated for large and small system scenarios.  The 
estimated costs and benefits of large and small systems were developed for each of the ten (10) 
catchments, and for small systems within trash generating areas outside of these catchments. Estimated 
costs and benefits of large and small systems will be compared to those associated with other trash 
control measures via the Final Report for the Project, which will include a cost-benefit evaluation that 
identifies and recommends the most cost-effective trash control measure(s) for remaining trash 
generating area in the City.  
The cost estimates presented in this section were developed using methods and assumptions described 
in Appendix D and should be considered preliminary planning-level estimates that may not include all 
costs associated with the design, planning, purchasing, constructing/installing, and operating and 
maintaining the potential full capture system. Costs estimates presented are based on the most readily 
available information at the time this evaluation was conducted. Cost estimating for large systems is 
dependent upon the size of the system needed to address the full capture storm event (i.e., 1-yr, 1-hr). 
The methods used to size large full capture systems is described in Appendix E. 
Comparisons of capital (base) and on-going operation and maintenance (O&M) costs between small and 
large full capture systems are included in this section to assist the City with identifying the most cost-
effective full capture system approaches to achieving mandated trash load reductions. More detailed and 
refined cost estimates will be needed should the City decide to move forward with installing full capture 
systems (large or small) at the sites identified. 
Cost Estimates for Large Systems 
Estimated lifecycle (50 year) and annual costs of installing and maintaining large full capture systems in 
the ten (10) catchments are included in Table 3. Cost estimates were developed based on methods and 
assumptions described in Appendix D, with the exception Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant (Figure A6) 
catchment. For this catchment, costs recently provided by Lotus Water as part of the conceptual design 
for a Green Stormwater Infrastructure (GSI) project at this site were used when estimating base costs, 
which include the design and construction of a diversion structure and a new pump station, in addition to 
the purchasing and construction of the full capture system.  
Please note that Lotus Water also provided a preliminary estimate for the construction of a regional GSI 
project at the Borel Creek at the City’s Public Works Maintenance Yard parcel. For the evaluation of full 
capture systems described in this memorandum, however, the location of the large full capture system 
addressing the Borel Creek catchment was moved upstream of the Public Works Maintenance Yard to 
19th Avenue, near the north side of Trinta Park. The location was moved because the optimal location for 
trash reduction would be the Trinta Park at 19th Avenue location. This alternative location would 
eliminate the potentially problematic issue of the trash being addressed after it has already reached the 
daylighted portion of Borel Creek, which is considered a receiving water. Only costs associated with the 
construction and maintenance of the proposed large full capture system were included in the cost 
estimates for this catchment. 
For nine (9) of the ten (10) catchments, costs estimates that are included in Table 3 were estimated based 
on the assumption that a large underground Debris Separating Baffle Box (DSBB) system would be 
installed and maintained. The DSBB costs for the nine catchments were derived primarily from a 
regression curve relating flow to base costs, as described in Appendix D. The base and maintenance costs 
for the tenth catchment, Poplar at Golf Course, were estimated for installing either an in-channel Gross 
Solids Removal Devices (GSRD) or an in-channel netting system. The City of San Bruno and City of Millbrae 
have similar GSRD systems and have provided costs associated with this type of system. Less readily 
132 of 179

--- page 133 ---
10 
 
available data on the costs associated with the in-channel netting system are currently available due to 
their limited application to-date. Costs associated with the in-channel netting and GSRD systems are 
assumed to be similar, although costs are likely dependent upon the vendor and the type of netting 
system installed.  
Please note that although not analyzed here, there is a possibility that lower-cost netting systems may be 
feasible for a portion of the other nine catchments evaluated. The locations where these types of systems 
might be feasible is beyond the scope of this project, but should be further evaluated if the City decides 
to move forward with large full capture systems.  
Cost Estimates for Small Systems 
The estimated costs and benefits for potential small full capture systems are presented in Table 4. Cost 
estimates were developed based on methods and assumptions described in Appendix D. A total of 735 
catch basins of interest for trash reduction were identified, with 457 within and 278 outside of the ten 
(10) catchments identified for large full capture systems. Ninety (90) of the 735 catch basins are located 
along El Camino Real and would therefore require an encroachment permit from Caltrans to install 
systems within the catch basins.  
Trash Reduction Benefits of Large and Small Systems 
The estimated trash load reduction benefits that would result from the installation of large full capture 
systems addressing trash generating areas with all ten (10) catchments is 50.0%. This includes 3.7% of 
reduction associated with existing systems within these catchments. Estimated reductions for each 
individual catchment are included in Table 3.  
Installing small full capture systems in all publicly-owned catch basins draining moderate or high trash 
generating areas (i.e., 735 systems) within and outside of the ten (10) catchments would result in a trash 
load reduction of 54.2%. This includes 3.8% reduction associated with existing systems within the 
drainage areas associated with these systems. Estimated reductions for installing small systems within 
each catchment and the areas outside of these catchments are included in Table 4. Because there are 
areas of retail, commercial, or industrial properties that drain to private inlets on properties, trash 
reduction from these areas are not included in the estimates included in Table 4. The estimated trash 
load associated with these properties (i.e., 14.7%) areas is assumed to be the difference between the 
potential load reduction associated with the large systems (i.e., 50.0%) and the load reduction estimated 
for small systems within the ten (10) catchments (i.e., 35.3%). Because many areas draining to private 
inlets likely cannot be treated by full capture systems in the public (City of Caltrans) ROW, the trash 
reduction percentages under a small system installation scenario are inherently lower than those 
associated with a large system scenario that addresses the same area. This is one of the challenges of 
only installing small systems within the public ROW. 
Uncertainties in the estimated trash reduction associated with small systems should be recognized. First, 
the estimated reductions for small systems is based on a desktop analysis that used GIS and did not 
include field investigations. Because inflow pipes and flow patterns cannot be determined without field 
investigations, the reductions based on desktop GIS methods may be over or underestimated. Second, 
some catch basins have physical characteristics that preclude the installation of a small system. Areas 
draining to these catch basins would therefore not be addressed by a small trash capture system, 
although included in the load reductions estimated here in this memorandum. Lastly, the area treated by 
a small catch basin system is somewhat dependent upon the type of system installed. Some systems only 
treat surface runoff and do not address flows from connecting pipes. For these systems, the area treated 
would be significantly reduced, compared to the estimated areas used in this memorandum to estimate 
trash load reductions. These types of systems (i.e., baskets) are described in Appendix A. 
 
133 of 179

--- page 134 ---
11 
 
Due to the uncertainties in calculating the area addressed by small capture systems, the load reduction 
estimates provided in Table 4 should be considered preliminary. It is recommended that if the City 
chooses to install small systems, the treatment area for each system (or groups of systems) should be 
identified via field investigations and revised in GIS using the results. The associated trash load reductions 
should be recalculated and revised accordingly prior to reporting to the Regional Water Board.  
134 of 179

--- page 135 ---
12 
 
Table 3. Preliminary planning level cost estimates for addressing trash in ten (10) stormwater catchments in the City of San Mateo via large trash full capture systems.  
Catchment 
Drainage 
Area 
(acres) 
Existing 
Trash 
Reduction a  
(%) 
Additional 
Trash 
Reduction a  
(%) 
Total Trash 
Reduction a 
(%) 
Potential 
System 
Type 
Base Costs 
(System, Installation, and 
Contingency) 
On-going Costs 
(O&M) 
Total Costs 
Total Annual 
Costs per % 
Trash 
Reduction 
Total 
Annualized  
(50 years) 
Total 
(50 years) 
Annual 
Lifecycle  
(50 years) 
Annualized 
(50 years) 
3rd & Detroit 
240 
0.0% 
5.0% 
5.0% 
DSBB 
$864,000  
$17,272  
$215,000  
$4,300  
$1,079,000 
$21,572  
$4,357 
42nd & Pacific 
178 
0.2% 
3.8% 
4.0% 
DSBB 
$894,000  
$17,872  
$225,000  
$4,500  
$1,119,000 
$22,372  
$5,578 
Borel Creek at Trinta Park 
695 
0.0% 
1.9% 
1.9% 
DSBB 
$1,463,000  
$29,250  
$340,000  
$6,800  
$1,803,000 
$36,050  
$18,544 
Delaware & Saratoga 
121 
0.0% 
3.8% 
3.8% 
DSBB 
$861,000  
$17,225  
$215,000  
$4,300  
$1,076,000 
$21,525  
$5,597 
Leslie Creek at Tracks b 
482 
0.0% 
3.3% 
3.3% 
DSBB 
$1,112,000  
$22,246  
$305,000  
$6,100  
$1,417,000 
$28,346  
$8,675 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
1,226 
3.2% 
11.1% 
14.3% 
DSBB 
$13,210,000  
$264,206 
$325,000  
$6,500  
$13,535,000 
$270,706  
$18,922 
Palm & 21st 
732 
0.3% 
4.5% 
4.8% 
DSBB 
$1,716,000  
$34,329  
$365,000  
$7,300  
$2,081,000 
$41,629  
$8,656 
Poplar & 2nd 
36 
0.0% 
2.3% 
2.3% 
DSBB 
$614,000  
$12,282  
$145,000  
$2,900  
$759,000 
$15,182  
$6,484 
Poplar & Monte Diablo 
44 
0.0% 
1.5% 
1.5% 
DSBB 
$652,000  
$13,034  
$155,000  
$3,100  
$807,000 
$16,134  
$10,961 
Poplar at Golf Course 
376 
0.0% 
12.4% 
12.4% 
Netting/ 
GSRD 
$458,000  
$9,162  
$285,000  
$5,700  
$743,000 
$14,862  
$1,202 
Totals c 
3,646 
3.7% 
46.3% 
50.0% 
-- 
$20,732,000 
$414,633 
$2,270,000 
$45,400 
$23,002,000 
$460,033 
$80,299 
a Includes reductions for treating non-jurisdictional K-12 schools. 
b Leslie Creek at Tracks is a subcatchment of the Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant catchment 
c Totals exclude Leslie Creek at Tracks catchments and assume that a large system would be installed at the Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant catchment. 
 
135 of 179

--- page 136 ---
13 
 
Table 4. Preliminary planning level cost estimates for addressing remaining trash generating areas within the City of San Mateo via small full capture systems. 
Catchment/Area 
Moderate 
and High 
Trash 
Generating 
Areas  
(acres) 
Existing 
Trash 
Reduction  
(%) 
Additional 
Trash 
Reduction  
(%) 
Total 
Trash 
Reduction 
(%) 
# of 
Systems 
Base Costs 
(System and Installation) 
On-going Costs  
Total Costs 
Total 
Annual 
Costs per 
% Trash 
Reduction 
Total 
Annualized  
(50 years) 
Annual 
O&M  
System 
Replacement  
Total 
(50 years) 
Lifecycle 
(50 years) 
Annualized 
(50 years) 
3rd & Detroit 
36 
0.0% 
3.5% 
3.5% 
32 
$32,000  
$640  
$12,800  
$48,000  
$720,000  
$752,000 
$14,400  
$4,128  
42nd & Pacific 
35 
0.2% 
3.2% 
3.4% 
45 
$45,000  
$900  
$18,000  
$67,500  
$1,012,500  
$1,057,500 
$20,250  
$5,928  
Borel Creek at Trinta Park 
39 
0.0% 
1.5% 
1.5% 
13 
$13,000  
$260  
$5,200  
$19,500  
$292,500  
$305,500 
$5,850  
$3,857  
Delaware & Saratoga 
48 
0.0% 
2.3% 
2.3% 
24 
$24,000  
$480  
$9,600  
$36,000  
$540,000  
$564,000 
$10,800  
$4,755  
Leslie Creek at Tracks a 
52 
0.0% 
2.0% 
2.0% 
34 
$34,000  
$680  
$13,600  
$51,000  
$765,000  
$799,000 
$15,300  
$7,834  
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
205 
3.2% 
6.2% 
9.4% 
155 
$155,000  
$3,100  
$62,000  
$232,500  
$3,487,500  
$3,642,500 
$69,750  
$7,390  
Palm & 21st 
73 
0.3% 
3.9% 
4.2% 
56 
$56,000  
$1,120  
$22,400  
$84,000  
$1,260,000  
$1,316,000 
$25,200  
$5,996  
Poplar & 2nd 
24 
0.0% 
2.3% 
2.3% 
9 
$9,000  
$180  
$3,600  
$13,500  
$202,500  
$211,500 
$4,050  
$1,730  
Poplar & Monte Diablo 
10 
0.0% 
1.0% 
1.0% 
7 
$7,000  
$140  
$2,800  
$10,500  
$157,500  
$164,500 
$3,150  
$3,056  
Poplar at Golf Course 
192 
0.0% 
7.6% 
7.6% 
116 
$116,000  
$2,320  
$46,400  
$174,000  
$2,610,000  
$2,726,000 
$52,200  
$6,878  
Areas outside catchments 
321 
0.0% 
18.9% 
18.9% 
278 
$278,000  
$5,560  
$111,200  
$417,000  
$6,255,000  
$6,533,000 
$125,100  
$6,629  
Totals b 
984 
3.8% 
50.4% 
54.2% 
735 
$735,000 
$14,700 
$294,000 
$1,102,500 
$16,537,500 
$17,272,500 
$330,750 
$50,346 
a Leslie Creek at Tracks is a subcatchment of the Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant catchment 
b Totals exclude Leslie Creek at Tracks catchments and assume that small systems within the larger Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant catchment would be installed. 
136 of 179

--- page 137 ---
14 
 
Cost-Benefit Evaluation - Large Versus Small Full Capture Systems  
Cost-benefit comparisons between small and large full capture system scenarios within the ten (10) 
catchments are provided in Table 5. Comparisons were made based on the estimated total 50-year 
accumulated (lifecycle) costs associated with the installation and maintenance of systems in the ten (10) 
stormwater catchments of interest. For some catchments, 50-year lifecycle costs are less for the small full 
capture systems scenario than the large system scenario. For others, large systems provide equivalent (or 
greater) benefits for less costs than small systems.  
Based on this evaluation, the only large capture system scenario that is more cost-effective than the 
corresponding small capture scenario is the Poplar at Golf Course catchment. Small capture scenarios are 
more cost-effective for the other nine catchments. This finding assumes that the City would solely fund 
both the base and on-going maintenance and operation costs associated with large and small full capture 
systems. 
Collaboration with the California Department of Transportation and the City of San Mateo 
Developing cooperative agreements with the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) could 
provide funding to the City for future trash capture projects. In 2017, the Caltrans District 4 Stormwater 
Program requested funding from the State Highway Operations Protection Program (SHOPP) for 
stormwater treatment projects in prioritized transportation corridors within the nine Bay Area counties. 
Projects qualifying for SHOPP funds include: 
• 
Caltrans drainage system treatment retrofits (to be developed by Caltrans), or 
• 
Cooperative Implementation Agreements – projects developed in partnership with MS4s to 
implement stormwater treatment or full trash capture systems within MS4s that treat both 
Caltrans right-of-way (ROW) and local watersheds. 
• 
Cooperative Implementation Agreements are a mechanism for Caltrans to: 
• Retrofit projects off the ROW, at locations that may otherwise have space access, or 
safety limitations within the ROW;   
• Involve MS4 jurisdictions who are knowledgeable with the implementation of best 
management practices (BMPs) and other creative solutions not typically available to 
Caltrans 
• Allow for larger watershed-scale projects; 
• Leverage resources from other entities, and  
• Obtain compliance unit credit to apply to NPDES Stormwater Permit requirements. A 
compliance unit is defined as one acre of Caltrans ROW from which the runoff is 
retained, treated, and/or otherwise controlled prior to discharge to the relevant reach. 
The City has entered into cooperative agreements for two systems in the recent past (i.e., Poplar-Dore 
and Coyote). Caltrans District 4 staff are currently in the process of identifying additional candidate 
projects where partnerships via Cooperative Implementation Agreements can be established. The process 
of developing partnerships involves the following steps: 
1. MS4 contacts Caltrans with proposal; 
2. Caltrans provides planning-level information (e.g., Storm Drain System Inventory, as-builts or 
access to as-builts); 
3. MS4 verifies that tributary shed area includes Caltrans ROW; 
4. MS4 performs preliminary calculations which are desirable for determining multi-benefits; 
5. Caltrans coordinates with Water Board regarding potential projects; 
6. If selected for partnership, Caltrans develops planning documents to enter into Cooperative 
Implementation Agreement; and  
137 of 179

--- page 138 ---
15 
 
7. MS4 enters Cooperative Implementation Agreement and receives up to $88,000 for each 
compliance unit (acre) credited to Caltrans via the installation of trash full capture systems in 
the MS4. 
Large trash full capture systems identified through this evaluation would address a significant amount of 
Caltrans ROW (Table 5). Based on an evaluation of Caltrans GIS data layers, a total of 180 acres of Caltrans 
ROW appear to be within the ten (10) stormwater catchments identified via this evaluation. If the City 
considers installing one of more of the large full capture systems identified in Table 5 or small systems 
that address trash from El Camino Real (i.e., Caltrans ROW), a Cooperative Implementation Agreement 
with Caltrans should be pursued to offset costs to the City. 
Potential reimbursements by Caltrans for installing large capture systems within the ten (10) catchments 
of interest are provided in Table 6. The reimbursement amounts assume that Caltrans would agree to pay 
the City $88,000 for each acre of Caltrans ROW addressed by a system installed and maintained by the 
City. Assuming that Caltrans would provide this level of reimbursement, the results of the cost-benefit 
analysis described in the previous section would change. With Caltrans compensation, large full capture 
systems would provide more cost-effective than small systems in five (5) additional catchments (Table 5).  
138 of 179

--- page 139 ---
16 
 
Table 5. Comparison of Large and Small Trash Full Capture System scenarios for each stormwater catchment with and without project funding via the California 
Department of Transportation (Caltrans).  
Catchment/Area 
Large Full Capture Systems 
Small Full Capture Systems 
Most Cost-effective 
Scenario for the  
City of San Mateo 
Trash 
Reduction 
(%) 
Without Caltrans 
Cooperative Agreement 
With Caltrans 
Cooperative Agreement 
Without Caltrans Cooperative 
Agreement 
Total 
Annualized 
Costs  
(50 years) 
Total 
Annualized 
Costs per 
% Trash 
Reduction 
Total 
Annualized 
Costs  
(50 years) 
Total 
Annualized 
Costs per 
% Trash 
Reduction 
Total % 
Trash 
Reduction 
Total 
Annualized 
Costs  
(50 years) 
Total 
Annualized 
Costs per 
% Trash 
Reduction 
Without 
Caltrans 
Cooperative 
Agreement 
With 
Caltrans 
Cooperative 
Agreement 
3rd & Detroit 
5.0% 
$21,572  
$4,357 
$21,572  
$4,357  
3.5% 
$14,400  
$4,128  
Small 
Small 
42nd & Pacific 
3.8% 
$22,372  
$5,578 
$12,560  
$3,338  
3.4% 
$20,250  
$5,928  
Small 
Large 
Borel Creek at Trinta Park 
1.9% 
$36,050  
$18,544 
$6,800  
$3,498  
1.5% 
$5,850  
$3,857  
Small 
Large 
Delaware & Saratoga 
3.8% 
$21,525  
$5,597 
$10,842  
$2,819  
2.3% 
$10,800  
$4,755  
Small 
Large 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
3.3% 
$28,346  
$8,675 
$9,952  
$3,046  
2.0% 
$15,300  
$7,834  
Small 
Large 
Leslie Creek at 
Wastewater Plant 
11.1% 
$270,706  
$18,922 
$270,324  
$24,374  
9.4% 
$69,750  
$7,390  
Small 
Small 
Palm & 21st 
4.5% 
$41,629  
$8,656 
$22,700  
$5,010  
4.2% 
$25,200  
$5,996  
Small 
Large 
Poplar & 2nd 
2.3% 
$15,182  
$6,484 
$15,180  
$6,483  
2.3% 
$4,050  
$1,730  
Small 
Small 
Poplar & Monte Diablo 
1.5% 
$16,134  
$10,961 
$16,140  
$10,965  
1.0% 
$3,150  
$3,056  
Small 
Small 
Poplar at Golf Course 
12.4% 
$14,862  
$1,202 
$5,700  
$461  
7.6% 
$52,200  
$6,878  
Large 
Large 
Areas outside 
catchments 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
18.9% 
$125,100  
$6,629  
Small 
Small 
 
 
 
 
139 of 179

--- page 140 ---
17 
 
Table 6. Potential reimbursements to the City of San Mateo by the California Department of Transportation 
(Caltrans) for the installation of Large Trash Full Capture Systems in each stormwater catchment of interest. 
Catchment 
Drainage Area 
(acres) 
Caltrans ROW 
Within Drainage 
Area 
(acres) 
Potential 
Reimbursement 
by Caltrans via 
Cooperative 
Agreement 
3rd & Detroit 
240 
0 
NA 
42nd & Pacific 
178 
6 
$491,000 
Borel Creek at Trinta Park 
695 
67 
$5,888,000 
Delaware & Saratoga 
121 
6 
$533,900 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
482 
10 
$919,400 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater 
Plant 
1,226 
75 
$6,579,800 
Palm & 21st 
732 
11 
$946,000 
Poplar & 2nd 
36 
0 
NA 
Poplar & Monte Diablo 
44 
0 
NA 
Poplar at Golf Course 
376 
15 
$1,335,900 
Total 
3,659 
180 
$15,774,600 
 
 
140 of 179

--- page 141 ---
Appendix A 
Descriptions of Full Capture Systems 
 
The State Water Board defines a trash full capture system as follows: 
A single system (or a series of systems) that traps all particles that are 5 mm or greater and has a 
design treatment capacity that is either: a) of not less than the peak flow rate, Q, resulting from a 
one-year, one-hour, storm in the subdrainage area, or b) appropriately sized to, and designed to 
carry at least the same flows as, the corresponding storm drain.” (State Water Board 2015)  
In 2017, the State Water Board developed a list of certified full trash capture systems which may be 
installed to comply with the Trash Amendments.4   Full trash capture systems must trap all particles 
retained by a 5-millimeter mesh screen and have a design treatment capacity of not less than the peak 
flow rate resulting from a one-year, one-hour storm event. Systems certified by the State Water Board 
include larger “end-of-pipe” and “in-line” netting and screening systems, and smaller screening systems 
installed in storm drain vaults or catch basins. Descriptions of both large and small full capture systems 
are included in this section. 
Large Full Capture Systems 
Large systems can treat an entire stormwater catchment area, including storm drains on private property, 
and provide a single location for maintenance, saving operation and maintenance resources over time. 
Two disadvantages of large systems are the relatively high capital and construction costs, which require a 
large initial funding source, and the higher instance of subsurface utility conflicts at desired locations 
within highly urbanized areas.   
There are three types of large full capture systems currently certified by the State Water Board-
hydrodynamic separators, gross solids removal devices, and netting systems. Each of these types of large 
systems have been installed in the Bay Area. Examples of these types of systems are provided in this 
section. The selection of large systems for reducing trash will depend on the characteristics of a specific 
location, hydraulic impacts, potential for environmental permitting, and resulting trash load reduction 
percentage.   
Hydrodynamic Separators – Vortex Separator 
The most common large system installed within the Bay Area is a hydrodynamic separator (HDS), also 
known as a vortex separator or swirl concentrator (Figure A1). These systems are produced by several 
manufacturers, each with their own design, but all contain large cylindrical separation chambers in which 
stormwater enters, creating a vortex to separate trash, debris, oil, and other pollutants from stormwater. 
The velocity is highest at the outer edge of the vortex, keeping trash and debris from clogging outflow 
holes and allowing the stormwater to leave the cylinder. Heavier material settles to the bottom of the 
storage sump, and floatables remain on the surface of the water within the separator cylinder.  
Trash, debris, and sediment is usually removed from the HDS with a vacuum truck, however, alternative 
systems may be fitted with a large basket to collect settled material, which is subsequently removed via a 
boom truck and emptied into a container for disposal. HDS units have the advantage of having a relatively 
small footprint and offer additional flexibility in their installation locations when compared to other types 
                                                          
4 Future approvals of new trash full capture systems will be administered by the State Water Board through implementation of the statewide 
Trash Amendments. https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/water_issues/programs/stormwater/docs/trash_implementation/a1_certified_fcd.pdf 
141 of 179

--- page 142 ---
of large systems. HDS units come in a large variety of types and sizes, and may be scaled up to handle 
peak flows of several hundred cubic feet per second. They can also be small enough to be retrofitted into 
existing manholes. Studies have shown that HDS units can be highly effective at trapping trash. 
Although there are many advantages to HDS units for trash control, they also have their disadvantages. 
Compared to other types of large systems, HDS units can have high capital costs. Additionally, for large 
drainage areas (e.g., >300 acres), the sump depths for HDS units may need to be greater than 25 feet, 
which poses a maintenance challenge given that typical atmospheric pressure limits vertical suction lift of 
pumps (i.e., vacuum trucks). Additional booster pumps are therefore needed to clean HDS sumps at these 
depths. 
 
Figure A1. (Left) Diagram of a Contech CDS® hydrodynamic separator (Source: 
www.conteches.com/products/stormwater-management/treatment). (Right) Separator Cylinder of 
Contech CDS® hydrodynamic separator (Courtesy of City of San Jose). 
 
Hydrodynamic Separators – Nutrient/Debris Separating Baffle Boxes 
Nutrient Separating Baffle Boxes (NSBB) and Debris Separating Baffle Boxes (DSBB) are both a type of 
hydrodynamic separator designed with a shallower depth than a vortex separator (Figure A2). Treatment 
flow rates vary by size and configuration of the unit. Stormwater enters a rectangular chamber with a 
screening system suspended above sedimentation chambers to separate trash, debris, oil, and other 
pollutants from stormwater.  
The NSBB/DSBB screening system stores trash and debris in a dry state which minimizes nutrient 
leaching, bacterial growth, and odors. All collected material within the screening system and sump is 
removed with a vacuum truck. NSBB/DSBB units are shallower than vortex separators, reducing the need 
for shoring during construction. NSBB and DSBB unit configurations are available for in-line or off-line 
installation. At least two NSBB/DSBB units are currently installed in the Bay Area, with several more 
planned.  
The disadvantages to NSBB/DSBB units for trash control include the need for a larger footprint for siting 
the system and the limited information on maintenance and operation. Because the design of the 
NSBB/DSBB requires a larger horizontal footprint than vortex separators, utility and ROW conflicts may 
pose a challenge to installation and maintenance. Additionally, since these systems are relatively new 
types of trash controls, maintenance experience and considerations are generally not well established. 
142 of 179

--- page 143 ---
Figure A2. Bio Clean Debris Separating Baffle Box (Source: https://biocleanenvironmental.com/debris-
separating-baffle-box/). 
 
Gross Solids Removal Systems (GSRD) 
Gross solids removal devices (GSRD) have also been installed in the Bay Area (Figure A3). A GSRD may be 
installed as a series of screens in-line, within a channel, at the end of a pipe, or within the forebay of a 
stormwater pump station. As stormwater enters the GSRD, trash and debris are captured inside the 
screens and water exits through 5 mm wide gaps (i.e., screen louvers). GSRDs may be installed in a linear-
radial configuration to treat flows from pipes that are 12 to 72 inches in diameter to the desired capacity 
or within the forebay of a stormwater pump station as a flat-panel configuration. A GSRD may require a 
large horizontal footprint compared to the other systems but may be the best option if space is not a 
consideration.  
The linear-radial configuration is maintained by opening the length of the system and vacuuming trash 
and debris stored within the system. The flat-panel configuration is maintained by removing trash and 
debris adhering to the panels. Figure B4 shows the GSRD installed at the Wrigley-Ford pump station in the 
City of Milpitas. The Milpitas system is a linear-radial and flat-panel configuration. Additional information 
on GSRDs may be found on the Roscoe Moss Company website, the manufacturer of the systems 
(https://roscoemoss.com/products/stormwater-gross-solids-removal-device/). 
Disadvantages to the GSRD include siting and maintenance challenges. Siting can be difficult in certain 
situations due to the extent of the footprint needed to construct and maintain the device. Additionally, 
maintenance challenges with extruding the material captured by the GSRD are common with these types 
of devices.  
143 of 179

--- page 144 ---
Figure A3. Cut away view of Linear Radial Configuration #1 (LR-1) screen (courtesy of the American 
Society of Civil Engineers Publications). 
 
 
Figure A4. Gross solids removal device (GSRD) in linear-radial configuration (Left) and installed in the City 
of Milpitas (Right). 
 
Netting Systems 
Netting systems rely on the force of flowing water to trap floatables in disposable nylon mesh bags of 
varying mesh sizes and storage volumes. The typical configuration is a large net installed end-of-pipe, 
however, the manufacturers indicate that these nets can also be placed in-line. Netting systems may be 
designed and installed to treat any size of catchment but are most commonly used to treat relatively 
large catchments. Two types of netting systems are available. The first is the NetTech manufactured by 
Oldcastle Stormwater Solutions (formerly KriStar Enterprises, Inc.) and requires very little infrastructure 
to install. It can be installed with a relatively small initial cost relative to the other types of systems. This 
system is placed over the entire outfall and is attached to the outfall with a tether (Figure A5). It is 
designed to detach with a certain amount of force, usually when the net is full. Once full, the net closes 
and detaches, and the tether prevents the net from moving down stream. The net requires a minimum 
144 of 179

--- page 145 ---
footprint of ten feet between the outfall and the receiving water body and must be placed on a concrete 
pad.  
 
Figure A5. Oldcastle Stormwater Solutions NetTech Gross Pollutant Trap within City of Vallejo (Source: 
https://oldcastleprecast.com). 
 
The second type of netting system is the TrashTrap manufactured by StormTrap Technologies Inc. 
(formerly Fresh Creek Technologies Inc.).  It requires a structure to house the netting system (Figure A6). 
The nets are designed not to detach automatically. An overflow screen is located above the nets so that 
any excess flows can easily bypass. Once full, nets are removed with a boom truck and disposed. New 
nets may be installed to eliminate the cleaning of existing nets. This netting system can be easily scaled 
up, has negligible headloss (does not increase upstream flooding) when cleaned regularly, and may be 
installed under water or within tidal areas, allowing it to be installed in more types of locations than the 
other systems. This flexibility is particularly important in San Mateo of San Mateo where many of the 
outfalls have significant tidal influence or partially submerged.    
    
 
 
 
 
 
Figure A6. StormTrap Technologies End-of-Pipe Netting TrashTrap® (Courtesy of StormTrap Technologies, 
Inc.). 
 
145 of 179

--- page 146 ---
Small Full Capture Systems 
Screening systems that are installed in stormwater catch basins (or catch basins) are commonly known as 
catch basin inserts (CBIs). CBIs are placed inside a catch basin to prevent trash, organic material (e.g. 
leaves and twigs) and sediment from entering the storm drain outflow pipe within the catch basin. There 
are two general designs of CBIs, catch basin inserts and outlet inserts. Catch basin inserts are placed 
inside the catch basin, while outlet inserts are placed in front of the outlet pipe. A wide variety of CBI 
designs exist, mostly in the form of outlet inserts (e.g., connector pipe screens) that are placed in front of 
the outlet pipe. Figure A7 shows examples of connector pipe screens (CPSs) installed in the Bay Area. 
Figure A8 illustrates a catch basin insert manufactured by Revel Environmental Manufacturing, Inc. CBIs 
that use filtering walls or filter media are not applicable for trapping trash and do not meet the full trash 
capture standard. As a result, the term “insert” does not refer to configurations that use filter media for 
removing other stormwater pollutants.  
Maintenance is performed with a vacuum truck or manually with a shovel. At a minimum, maintenance is 
performed at least once per year to ensure that the system meets the full capture standard. If the system 
is observed to have a plugged or blinded screen or is greater than 50 percent full during a maintenance 
event, the maintenance frequency should be increased so that the system is neither plugged nor more 
than half full at the next maintenance event.  
 
 
Figure A7. Small Connector Pipe Screens installed in catch basins within the Bay Area. 
 
146 of 179

--- page 147 ---
Figure A8. Catch basin insert manufactured by Revel Environmental Manufacturing, Inc. 
 
 
147 of 179

--- page 148 ---
Appendix B 
Maps Illustrating Potential Large Full Capture System Locations 
148 of 179

--- page 149 ---
Figure A1.  Location of potential Large Trash Full Capture System at 3rd & Detroit. 
 
149 of 179

--- page 150 ---
Figure A2.  Location of potential Large Trash Full Capture System at 42nd & Pacific 
 
 
 
150 of 179

--- page 151 ---
Figure A3.  Location of potential Large Trash Full Capture System at Borel Creek at Trinta Park 
 
 
 
151 of 179

--- page 152 ---
Figure A4.  Location of potential Large Trash Full Capture System at Delaware & Saratoga 
 
 
152 of 179

--- page 153 ---
Figure A5.  Location of potential Large Trash Full Capture System at Leslie Creek at Tracks (sub-catchment to Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
catchment) 
 
 
 
153 of 179

--- page 154 ---
Figure A6.  Location of potential Large Trash Full Capture System at Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
 
 
 
154 of 179

--- page 155 ---
Figure A7.  Location of potential Large Trash Full Capture System at Palm & 21st 
 
 
 
155 of 179

--- page 156 ---
Figure A8.  Location of potential Large Trash Full Capture System at Poplar & 2nd 
 
 
 
156 of 179

--- page 157 ---
Figure A9.  Location of potential Large Trash Full Capture System at Poplar & Monte Diablo 
 
 
 
157 of 179

--- page 158 ---
Figure A10.  Location of potential Large Trash Full Capture System at Poplar at Golf Course 
 
 
 
 
 
158 of 179

--- page 159 ---
Appendix C 
Locations of Storm Drain Inlets for Potential  
Small Trash Full Capture Systems 
 
 
 
159 of 179

--- page 160 ---
Catchment 
Inlet ID 
Caltrans 
Longitude 
Latitude 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-AD30 
  
-122.29691 
37.57064 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-AD90 
  
-122.29662 
37.57113 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-AD93 
  
-122.29651 
37.57129 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-B0D5 
  
-122.30844 
37.57039 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-B0ED 
  
-122.30979 
37.56965 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-B0F3 
  
-122.30981 
37.56950 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-B0F6 
  
-122.30969 
37.56953 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-AD33 
  
-122.29700 
37.57064 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-AF0A 
  
-122.30070 
37.57244 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-AF10 
  
-122.30196 
37.57280 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-AF07 
  
-122.29972 
37.57216 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-B0E4 
  
-122.30922 
37.57119 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-2FAF9 
  
-122.30904 
37.57116 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-BE62 
  
-122.31057 
37.57222 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-2FA59 
  
-122.31048 
37.57237 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-2FA63 
  
-122.31031 
37.57231 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-2FA88 
  
-122.30980 
37.57185 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-2FA8F 
  
-122.30987 
37.57178 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-2FA95 
  
-122.30966 
37.57172 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-2FA92 
  
-122.30976 
37.57168 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-2FBDB 
  
-122.30872 
37.57085 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-B0DB 
  
-122.30861 
37.57053 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-AD96 
  
-122.29853 
37.57183 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-ADFC 
  
-122.30240 
37.56853 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-ADFF 
  
-122.30263 
37.56894 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-AE02 
  
-122.30279 
37.56889 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-B057 
  
-122.30483 
37.57363 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-B05D 
  
-122.30403 
37.57340 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-B06C 
  
-122.30292 
37.57308 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-BE53 
  
-122.30863 
37.57248 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-BE56 
  
-122.30876 
37.57252 
3rd & Detroit 
SD-B099 
  
-122.30573 
37.57389 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-1A377 
  
-122.28821 
37.53067 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-1A37A 
  
-122.28848 
37.53082 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-1A386 
  
-122.28935 
37.53138 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-1A389 
  
-122.28921 
37.53127 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-1A38C 
  
-122.28942 
37.53128 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-1A392 
  
-122.28893 
37.53090 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-1A395 
  
-122.28856 
37.53067 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-1A398 
  
-122.28840 
37.53076 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-1A39B 
  
-122.28868 
37.53095 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-1A39E 
  
-122.28888 
37.53108 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-19BC8 
  
-122.29010 
37.53190 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-19BCB 
  
-122.29026 
37.53182 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12ECA 
Yes 
-122.28924 
37.53062 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12ECD 
Yes 
-122.28886 
37.53038 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12ED3 
Yes 
-122.29055 
37.53154 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12EDC 
  
-122.28957 
37.53009 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12EE5 
  
-122.29024 
37.53100 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12EE8 
  
-122.29028 
37.53098 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12EEE 
  
-122.29062 
37.53067 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12EF1 
  
-122.29090 
37.52975 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12F06 
  
-122.29358 
37.53344 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12F2A 
Yes 
-122.29072 
37.53138 
160 of 179

--- page 161 ---
Catchment 
Inlet ID 
Caltrans 
Longitude 
Latitude 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12F2D 
Yes 
-122.28992 
37.53108 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-3F790 
  
-122.29293 
37.53283 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12FD8 
Yes 
-122.29256 
37.53297 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12FDB 
Yes 
-122.29282 
37.53287 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12FDE 
  
-122.29278 
37.53279 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12FE1 
Yes 
-122.29178 
37.53214 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12FE4 
Yes 
-122.29189 
37.53221 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12F75 
  
-122.29120 
37.52959 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12F78 
  
-122.29119 
37.52963 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12F7B 
  
-122.29180 
37.52940 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12F33 
Yes 
-122.28800 
37.52980 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12F36 
Yes 
-122.28832 
37.52975 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12F39 
Yes 
-122.28791 
37.52947 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12F42 
  
-122.28943 
37.53035 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12F45 
Yes 
-122.29009 
37.53089 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12F48 
  
-122.29002 
37.53011 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12F4B 
  
-122.28994 
37.53001 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12F4E 
  
-122.28980 
37.53003 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12F51 
  
-122.28982 
37.53006 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12F54 
  
-122.28928 
37.52929 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-12F57 
  
-122.28922 
37.52913 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-1305C 
  
-122.29370 
37.53348 
42nd & Pacific 
SD-1305F 
  
-122.29366 
37.53341 
Borel Creek at Trinta Park 
SD-O33 
  
-122.30951 
37.55124 
Borel Creek at Trinta Park 
SD-O34 
  
-122.30941 
37.55115 
Borel Creek at Trinta Park 
SD-5439 
Yes 
-122.31359 
37.55155 
Borel Creek at Trinta Park 
SD-5635 
  
-122.31461 
37.55095 
Borel Creek at Trinta Park 
SD-5644 
Yes 
-122.31305 
37.55108 
Borel Creek at Trinta Park 
SD-5677 
  
-122.31803 
37.54923 
Borel Creek at Trinta Park 
SD-O1493 
  
-122.30735 
37.54988 
Borel Creek at Trinta Park 
SD-564D 
Yes 
-122.31243 
37.55090 
Borel Creek at Trinta Park 
SD-565C 
Yes 
-122.31278 
37.55115 
Borel Creek at Trinta Park 
SD-110B4 
Yes 
-122.31113 
37.54973 
Borel Creek at Trinta Park 
SD-11127 
Yes 
-122.31146 
37.54953 
Borel Creek at Trinta Park 
SD-10FA9 
  
-122.31476 
37.54816 
Borel Creek at Trinta Park 
SD-O5432 
  
-122.30793 
37.55067 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-O26 
Yes 
-122.30299 
37.54168 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-16E36 
  
-122.30385 
37.54600 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-16E39 
  
-122.30366 
37.54575 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-1430D 
  
-122.30340 
37.53881 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-14310 
  
-122.30344 
37.53887 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-1100C 
  
-122.30385 
37.54109 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-1100F 
  
-122.30395 
37.54108 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-11024 
Yes 
-122.30290 
37.54155 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-10640 
  
-122.30285 
37.53951 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-10643 
  
-122.30292 
37.53948 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-1065B 
  
-122.30320 
37.53983 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-1065E 
  
-122.30317 
37.53977 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-110A2 
  
-122.30634 
37.54575 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-110A8 
  
-122.30442 
37.54552 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-110C0 
Yes 
-122.30641 
37.54535 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-11012 
  
-122.30409 
37.54119 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-11018 
Yes 
-122.30295 
37.54165 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-1101B 
Yes 
-122.30287 
37.54197 
161 of 179

--- page 162 ---
Catchment 
Inlet ID 
Caltrans 
Longitude 
Latitude 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-10E02 
Yes 
-122.30493 
37.54362 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-10E4A 
Yes 
-122.30470 
37.54375 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-10E4D 
Yes 
-122.30431 
37.54303 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-10E50 
Yes 
-122.30435 
37.54299 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-10E56 
Yes 
-122.30361 
37.54269 
Delaware & Saratoga 
SD-10E59 
Yes 
-122.30376 
37.54250 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-53CE 
Yes 
-122.31629 
37.55404 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-54C8 
  
-122.31620 
37.55306 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-7280 
  
-122.32821 
37.55145 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-7283 
  
-122.32743 
37.55107 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-7286 
  
-122.32741 
37.55105 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-7289 
  
-122.32737 
37.55103 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-7214 
  
-122.32129 
37.55100 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-7217 
  
-122.32189 
37.55059 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-8C52 
Yes 
-122.31939 
37.55685 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-8D93 
Yes 
-122.31828 
37.55588 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-920E 
  
-122.31825 
37.55467 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-9211 
  
-122.31813 
37.55460 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-9229 
  
-122.31708 
37.55395 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-92FA 
  
-122.31688 
37.55367 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-935C 
Yes 
-122.31682 
37.55452 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-937D 
  
-122.31669 
37.55421 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-3F4BA 
  
-122.31678 
37.55429 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-86A5 
Yes 
-122.32203 
37.55924 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-8751 
Yes 
-122.32118 
37.55842 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-97E2 
  
-122.32241 
37.55908 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-727A 
  
-122.32876 
37.55166 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-86A8 
Yes 
-122.32184 
37.55938 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-7A3C 
  
-122.31156 
37.55595 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-7A3F 
  
-122.31144 
37.55588 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-8C86 
  
-122.31820 
37.55821 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-8CDD 
  
-122.31758 
37.55766 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-93BB 
  
-122.31538 
37.55570 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-93BE 
  
-122.31530 
37.55563 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-9419 
  
-122.31456 
37.55494 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-941F 
  
-122.31443 
37.55492 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-9479 
  
-122.31454 
37.55370 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-8D3E 
  
-122.31683 
37.55699 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-91B8 
  
-122.31608 
37.55629 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
SD-3A48B 
  
-122.31465 
37.55511 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-BF58 
  
-122.31525 
37.56143 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-BF5B 
  
-122.31514 
37.56151 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-BF5E 
  
-122.31512 
37.56133 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-BF61 
  
-122.31662 
37.56262 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-BF67 
  
-122.31634 
37.56260 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-BF6A 
  
-122.31653 
37.56253 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-3E9A5 
  
-122.31867 
37.56218 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-3E9A0 
  
-122.31885 
37.56234 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-3E99D 
  
-122.31897 
37.56227 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-BED4 
  
-122.31587 
37.56319 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-BED7 
  
-122.31569 
37.56304 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-BEDD 
  
-122.31448 
37.56191 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-AFBB 
  
-122.30977 
37.56651 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-177C9 
  
-122.30252 
37.55219 
162 of 179

--- page 163 ---
Catchment 
Inlet ID 
Caltrans 
Longitude 
Latitude 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-177D5 
  
-122.30208 
37.55241 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-177D8 
  
-122.30228 
37.55238 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-177DB 
  
-122.30228 
37.55248 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-O1461 
  
-122.30061 
37.55225 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-1A66A 
  
-122.29981 
37.55224 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-724A 
  
-122.31832 
37.56160 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-AAB1 
  
-122.30479 
37.55918 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-AAB4 
  
-122.30491 
37.55912 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-AABA 
  
-122.30393 
37.55839 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-AAC0 
  
-122.30546 
37.55864 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-AAC3 
  
-122.30535 
37.55846 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-AAD8 
  
-122.30596 
37.55671 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-AADB 
  
-122.30603 
37.55680 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-AADE 
  
-122.30640 
37.55730 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-AAE1 
  
-122.30650 
37.55738 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-AAE4 
  
-122.30689 
37.55781 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-AAE7 
  
-122.30695 
37.55790 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-AAEA 
  
-122.30828 
37.55712 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-AAF3 
  
-122.30776 
37.55651 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-AAF9 
  
-122.30859 
37.55648 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-AAFC 
  
-122.30843 
37.55659 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-99A1 
  
-122.30809 
37.55629 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-99A4 
  
-122.30747 
37.55572 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-99A7 
  
-122.30715 
37.55595 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-99B6 
  
-122.30717 
37.55544 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-99B9 
  
-122.30718 
37.55521 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-99BC 
  
-122.30691 
37.55519 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-99CE 
  
-122.30723 
37.55354 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-99D1 
  
-122.30726 
37.55371 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-99D7 
  
-122.30756 
37.55354 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-99E3 
  
-122.30631 
37.55429 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-99E6 
  
-122.30636 
37.55469 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A4E7 
  
-122.30084 
37.55523 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A4ED 
  
-122.29938 
37.55561 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A4F0 
  
-122.29926 
37.55567 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A4F3 
  
-122.29916 
37.55572 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A946 
  
-122.30342 
37.55650 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A94F 
  
-122.30272 
37.55674 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A95B 
  
-122.30487 
37.55538 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A961 
  
-122.30424 
37.55610 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A964 
  
-122.30482 
37.55692 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A967 
  
-122.30551 
37.55651 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A96A 
  
-122.30526 
37.55620 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A96D 
  
-122.30511 
37.55597 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A970 
  
-122.30505 
37.55585 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A70C 
  
-122.30421 
37.55499 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A70F 
  
-122.30417 
37.55485 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A712 
  
-122.30314 
37.55497 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A715 
  
-122.30315 
37.55512 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A71B 
  
-122.30234 
37.55513 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A71E 
  
-122.30197 
37.55513 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A721 
  
-122.30213 
37.55545 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A724 
  
-122.30218 
37.55573 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A72D 
  
-122.30076 
37.55737 
163 of 179

--- page 164 ---
Catchment 
Inlet ID 
Caltrans 
Longitude 
Latitude 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A6CD 
  
-122.30195 
37.55497 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A7BA 
  
-122.30580 
37.55435 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-42D71 
  
-122.30003 
37.55232 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A943 
  
-122.30351 
37.55647 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A652 
  
-122.30548 
37.55293 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A655 
  
-122.30529 
37.55295 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A673 
  
-122.30228 
37.55289 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A676 
  
-122.30225 
37.55371 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A679 
  
-122.30205 
37.55371 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A67C 
  
-122.30209 
37.55461 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A7BD 
  
-122.30503 
37.55464 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A7C0 
  
-122.30580 
37.55380 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A7C6 
  
-122.30598 
37.55405 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A7C9 
  
-122.30581 
37.55413 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A7CC 
  
-122.30225 
37.55464 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A7CF 
  
-122.30611 
37.55446 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A7D2 
  
-122.30590 
37.55449 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-AB50 
  
-122.30188 
37.55897 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-AB53 
  
-122.30199 
37.55889 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-BF24 
  
-122.30977 
37.55581 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-BF27 
  
-122.30989 
37.55585 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A73C 
  
-122.30064 
37.55742 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-3A70D 
  
-122.30365 
37.55795 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-3A70A 
  
-122.30340 
37.55769 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A92B 
  
-122.30605 
37.55492 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A931 
  
-122.30312 
37.55758 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A934 
  
-122.30327 
37.55741 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A937 
  
-122.30338 
37.55754 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A93A 
  
-122.30385 
37.55729 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-3A5D4 
  
-122.30661 
37.55806 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-3A5D1 
  
-122.30655 
37.55797 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-3A5DE 
  
-122.30593 
37.55838 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-3A5DB 
  
-122.30587 
37.55828 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-3A637 
  
-122.30607 
37.55757 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-3A67B 
  
-122.30507 
37.55610 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-3A6AB 
  
-122.30598 
37.55683 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-O2814 
  
-122.30671 
37.55542 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-4FA3D 
  
-122.30205 
37.55321 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-O2816 
  
-122.30205 
37.55408 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-42D6C 
  
-122.29925 
37.55265 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A808 
  
-122.29635 
37.56561 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A8AD 
  
-122.29785 
37.56136 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A8B6 
  
-122.29756 
37.56104 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A8B9 
  
-122.29751 
37.56099 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-A7E7 
  
-122.29704 
37.56048 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-B0F9 
  
-122.31119 
37.56875 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-B0FC 
  
-122.31106 
37.56861 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-B006 
  
-122.30981 
37.56745 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-35D2F 
  
-122.31035 
37.55712 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-BF2A 
  
-122.30999 
37.55707 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-BF37 
  
-122.31142 
37.55785 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-BF49 
  
-122.31358 
37.55991 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
SD-O5434 
  
-122.30228 
37.55551 
Palm & 21st 
SD-O27 
  
-122.30691 
37.54468 
164 of 179

--- page 165 ---
Catchment 
Inlet ID 
Caltrans 
Longitude 
Latitude 
Palm & 21st 
SD-O28 
  
-122.30657 
37.54477 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10D69 
  
-122.31638 
37.53845 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10D6C 
  
-122.31614 
37.53827 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10D6F 
  
-122.31492 
37.53925 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10D72 
  
-122.31484 
37.53918 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10D7E 
  
-122.31275 
37.53866 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10DFC 
  
-122.31250 
37.53778 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10E6B 
  
-122.30581 
37.54282 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10E6E 
  
-122.30587 
37.54276 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10E71 
  
-122.30672 
37.54287 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10E74 
  
-122.30683 
37.54344 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10E77 
  
-122.30805 
37.54012 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10E8F 
  
-122.30801 
37.54255 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10E92 
  
-122.30809 
37.54253 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10E95 
  
-122.30884 
37.54237 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10F6A 
  
-122.31159 
37.54622 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10F70 
  
-122.31173 
37.54644 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10F73 
  
-122.31184 
37.54641 
Palm & 21st 
SD-1104B 
  
-122.30956 
37.54723 
Palm & 21st 
SD-1104E 
Yes 
-122.30877 
37.54714 
Palm & 21st 
SD-11090 
Yes 
-122.30631 
37.54483 
Palm & 21st 
SD-11096 
Yes 
-122.30702 
37.54554 
Palm & 21st 
SD-11099 
Yes 
-122.30716 
37.54567 
Palm & 21st 
SD-1109C 
  
-122.30673 
37.54613 
Palm & 21st 
SD-1109F 
  
-122.30710 
37.54647 
Palm & 21st 
SD-110BA 
Yes 
-122.30938 
37.54801 
Palm & 21st 
SD-11118 
  
-122.30918 
37.54876 
Palm & 21st 
SD-1140A 
  
-122.31936 
37.54477 
Palm & 21st 
SD-11F27 
  
-122.30643 
37.54489 
Palm & 21st 
SD-11F7E 
  
-122.30694 
37.54394 
Palm & 21st 
SD-11030 
  
-122.31038 
37.54821 
Palm & 21st 
SD-11033 
  
-122.31003 
37.54820 
Palm & 21st 
SD-11036 
  
-122.31018 
37.54831 
Palm & 21st 
SD-1103C 
  
-122.30955 
37.54830 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10EB6 
  
-122.30712 
37.54419 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10ED7 
  
-122.30947 
37.54346 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10EDD 
  
-122.30896 
37.54265 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10EE6 
  
-122.30917 
37.54273 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10E05 
  
-122.30726 
37.54110 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10E08 
  
-122.30726 
37.54122 
Palm & 21st 
SD-11051 
Yes 
-122.30865 
37.54703 
Palm & 21st 
SD-11060 
  
-122.30694 
37.54772 
Palm & 21st 
SD-11063 
  
-122.30684 
37.54776 
Palm & 21st 
SD-11066 
  
-122.30792 
37.54631 
Palm & 21st 
SD-11069 
  
-122.30787 
37.54626 
Palm & 21st 
SD-11072 
  
-122.30805 
37.54590 
Palm & 21st 
SD-1108D 
  
-122.30712 
37.54455 
Palm & 21st 
SD-3E077 
  
-122.30722 
37.54127 
Palm & 21st 
SD-429B9 
Yes 
-122.31056 
37.54872 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10E62 
  
-122.30650 
37.54250 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10E65 
  
-122.30534 
37.54324 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10EAD 
  
-122.30617 
37.54370 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10EB0 
  
-122.30678 
37.54377 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10EB3 
  
-122.30698 
37.54375 
165 of 179

--- page 166 ---
Catchment 
Inlet ID 
Caltrans 
Longitude 
Latitude 
Palm & 21st 
SD-10FB8 
  
-122.31634 
37.54543 
Poplar & 2nd 
SD-2840 
  
-122.31483 
37.57411 
Poplar & 2nd 
SD-2843 
  
-122.31475 
37.57416 
Poplar & 2nd 
SD-2846 
  
-122.31405 
37.57464 
Poplar & 2nd 
SD-2ADD 
  
-122.31244 
37.57575 
Poplar & 2nd 
SD-2B07 
  
-122.31297 
37.57406 
Poplar & 2nd 
SD-2B16 
  
-122.31284 
37.57433 
Poplar & 2nd 
SD-3855 
  
-122.31243 
37.57564 
Poplar & 2nd 
SD-27E0 
  
-122.31266 
37.57342 
Poplar & 2nd 
SD-3F5CE 
  
-122.31273 
37.57444 
Poplar & Monte Diablo 
SD-281F 
  
-122.31646 
37.57672 
Poplar & Monte Diablo 
SD-2822 
  
-122.31749 
37.57601 
Poplar & Monte Diablo 
SD-2639 
  
-122.31789 
37.57777 
Poplar & Monte Diablo 
SD-2678 
  
-122.31770 
37.57586 
Poplar & Monte Diablo 
SD-267B 
  
-122.31628 
37.57671 
Poplar & Monte Diablo 
SD-270B 
  
-122.31576 
37.57747 
Poplar & Monte Diablo 
SD-2711 
  
-122.31572 
37.57733 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2A20 
  
-122.32794 
37.57550 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2A23 
  
-122.32790 
37.57542 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2A26 
  
-122.32784 
37.57556 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2A29 
  
-122.32777 
37.57549 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2A35 
  
-122.32488 
37.57984 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2A3B 
  
-122.32463 
37.57995 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-29B1 
  
-122.33008 
37.57458 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-29BA 
  
-122.32994 
37.57464 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-29C0 
  
-122.32994 
37.57475 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-29C3 
  
-122.32984 
37.57488 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-29C6 
  
-122.32935 
37.57548 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-29D8 
  
-122.32922 
37.57557 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-29DE 
  
-122.32877 
37.57622 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-29E7 
  
-122.32796 
37.57709 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-29F9 
  
-122.32634 
37.57868 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2A65 
  
-122.32547 
37.57943 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2AC2 
  
-122.32923 
37.57565 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2A3E 
  
-122.32394 
37.58064 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2909 
  
-122.32654 
37.58288 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2A4A 
  
-122.32463 
37.58112 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2A4D 
  
-122.32567 
37.58208 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-28F1 
  
-122.32889 
37.58126 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-28FA 
  
-122.32708 
37.58246 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-28FD 
  
-122.32721 
37.58260 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-29B4 
  
-122.33018 
37.57465 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-29B7 
  
-122.33013 
37.57482 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-29C9 
  
-122.32985 
37.57506 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-29CC 
  
-122.32946 
37.57551 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-29CF 
  
-122.32945 
37.57557 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-29D2 
  
-122.32947 
37.57564 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-29D5 
  
-122.32942 
37.57575 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-29E1 
  
-122.32879 
37.57637 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-29E4 
  
-122.32799 
37.57726 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-29ED 
  
-122.32722 
37.57804 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-29F0 
  
-122.32626 
37.57893 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-29F3 
  
-122.32644 
37.57884 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-29F6 
  
-122.32644 
37.57877 
166 of 179

--- page 167 ---
Catchment 
Inlet ID 
Caltrans 
Longitude 
Latitude 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-29FC 
  
-122.32632 
37.57893 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2A50 
  
-122.32680 
37.58074 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2A5C 
  
-122.32589 
37.58137 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2A5F 
  
-122.32576 
37.58125 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2A62 
  
-122.32557 
37.57950 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2ABF 
  
-122.33018 
37.57475 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2AC5 
  
-122.32932 
37.57574 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2A2C 
  
-122.32545 
37.57965 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2A2F 
  
-122.32556 
37.57957 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2A32 
  
-122.32500 
37.57994 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2A38 
  
-122.32482 
37.58011 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-28C4 
  
-122.32898 
37.58120 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2AB0 
  
-122.32622 
37.58021 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2AB3 
  
-122.32614 
37.58027 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2AB6 
  
-122.32611 
37.58011 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2AB9 
  
-122.32609 
37.58022 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-2ABC 
  
-122.32587 
37.58001 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-39BB5 
  
-122.32738 
37.57789 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-39BF9 
  
-122.32564 
37.57982 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-39E31 
  
-122.32868 
37.57650 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-670 
Yes 
-122.33427 
37.56949 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-673 
Yes 
-122.33454 
37.56961 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-679 
Yes 
-122.33435 
37.56939 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-67C 
Yes 
-122.33463 
37.56951 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-1C0D 
  
-122.33119 
37.57283 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-565 
  
-122.33446 
37.57068 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-568 
  
-122.33454 
37.57080 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-56B 
  
-122.33454 
37.57085 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-56E 
  
-122.33448 
37.57091 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-574 
  
-122.33431 
37.57075 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-550 
  
-122.33298 
37.57193 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-553 
  
-122.33362 
37.57217 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-556 
  
-122.33346 
37.57142 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-559 
  
-122.33360 
37.57135 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-55C 
  
-122.33387 
37.57135 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-55F 
  
-122.33389 
37.57142 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-76F 
Yes 
-122.33349 
37.56912 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-778 
Yes 
-122.33365 
37.56920 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-77B 
Yes 
-122.33187 
37.56818 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-784 
Yes 
-122.33171 
37.56808 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-104E 
  
-122.33269 
37.57209 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-57A 
  
-122.33509 
37.57029 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-57D 
  
-122.33519 
37.57026 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-580 
Yes 
-122.33532 
37.56997 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-583 
Yes 
-122.33516 
37.56990 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-592 
  
-122.33750 
37.57124 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-598 
  
-122.33078 
37.57377 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-59B 
  
-122.33067 
37.57372 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-59E 
  
-122.33075 
37.57346 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-5A7 
  
-122.33098 
37.57321 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-5AA 
  
-122.33114 
37.57289 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-5AD 
  
-122.33127 
37.57283 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-5B0 
  
-122.33197 
37.57244 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-5B3 
  
-122.33161 
37.57269 
167 of 179

--- page 168 ---
Catchment 
Inlet ID 
Caltrans 
Longitude 
Latitude 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-5B6 
  
-122.33161 
37.57255 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-562 
  
-122.33381 
37.57146 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-5B9 
  
-122.33203 
37.57228 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-5BC 
  
-122.33252 
37.57227 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-5BF 
  
-122.33228 
37.57207 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-5C2 
  
-122.33256 
37.57202 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-5C5 
  
-122.33264 
37.57210 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-5F8 
Yes 
-122.33784 
37.57140 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-5FB 
Yes 
-122.33761 
37.57124 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-517 
  
-122.33077 
37.57354 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-520 
  
-122.33142 
37.57300 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-526 
  
-122.33137 
37.57292 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-529 
  
-122.33244 
37.57203 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-52C 
  
-122.33264 
37.57220 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-532 
  
-122.33523 
37.57005 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-535 
  
-122.33763 
37.57137 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-514 
Yes 
-122.33565 
37.56991 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-5FE 
Yes 
-122.33755 
37.57103 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-601 
Yes 
-122.33779 
37.57120 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-604 
Yes 
-122.33848 
37.57169 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-60A 
Yes 
-122.33971 
37.57256 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-577 
Yes 
-122.33482 
37.56958 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-589 
Yes 
-122.33542 
37.56981 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-58F 
  
-122.33676 
37.57042 
Poplar at Golf Course 
SD-O5435 
  
-122.33435 
37.57618 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-16E33 
  
-122.30280 
37.54489 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-2E0D7 
  
-122.29064 
37.54394 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-2DF7E 
  
-122.29868 
37.54777 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-2E62E 
  
-122.30160 
37.54844 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-2E0BD 
  
-122.29115 
37.54361 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-2E0C0 
  
-122.29108 
37.54354 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-2E0DA 
  
-122.29057 
37.54387 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-2E097 
  
-122.29199 
37.54292 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-2E094 
  
-122.29216 
37.54288 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-2E091 
  
-122.29239 
37.54296 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-2E0A8 
  
-122.29209 
37.54259 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-2E0A5 
  
-122.29221 
37.54259 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-2E09D 
  
-122.29251 
37.54260 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-230B7 
  
-122.29161 
37.54249 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-2E0BA 
  
-122.29132 
37.54256 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-2E0B4 
  
-122.29130 
37.54179 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-2E0B1 
  
-122.29197 
37.54170 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-230AE 
  
-122.29220 
37.54211 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-2E0AB 
  
-122.29240 
37.54209 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-42065 
  
-122.29232 
37.54231 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-42055 
  
-122.29229 
37.54218 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-2F8 
  
-122.32939 
37.56145 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-381 
  
-122.32802 
37.56237 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-384 
  
-122.32818 
37.56220 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-3BE 
  
-122.32743 
37.56303 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-6F7 
  
-122.32755 
37.56428 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-73B8 
Yes 
-122.32515 
37.56210 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-73BB 
Yes 
-122.32471 
37.56168 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-3F465 
Yes 
-122.32449 
37.56147 
168 of 179

--- page 169 ---
Catchment 
Inlet ID 
Caltrans 
Longitude 
Latitude 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-3F43E 
Yes 
-122.32586 
37.56272 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-661 
Yes 
-122.32740 
37.56460 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-6E2 
  
-122.32646 
37.56661 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-6E5 
  
-122.32637 
37.56648 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-706 
Yes 
-122.32881 
37.56619 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-748 
Yes 
-122.32871 
37.56608 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-D53 
  
-122.32493 
37.56715 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-D7F 
  
-122.32502 
37.56820 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-73A3 
  
-122.32299 
37.56297 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-73A6 
  
-122.32337 
37.56339 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-73AF 
  
-122.32351 
37.56359 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-73B2 
  
-122.32370 
37.56378 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-BE98 
  
-122.31671 
37.56820 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-BD72 
  
-122.31915 
37.56769 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-BD75 
  
-122.31816 
37.56836 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-BD78 
  
-122.31833 
37.56823 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-BD7E 
  
-122.31741 
37.56889 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-BD81 
  
-122.31721 
37.56903 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-BD8A 
  
-122.31567 
37.56999 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-BDEA 
  
-122.32027 
37.56500 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-BE0E 
  
-122.31793 
37.56626 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-F782 
  
-122.31666 
37.56827 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-41BA9 
  
-122.32630 
37.56667 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-6AC 
  
-122.32368 
37.56725 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-6AF 
  
-122.32376 
37.56734 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-6C1 
  
-122.32455 
37.56737 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-6C4 
  
-122.32453 
37.56755 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-6C7 
  
-122.32513 
37.56705 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-2765 
  
-122.31959 
37.56958 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-2768 
  
-122.31953 
37.56942 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-279E 
  
-122.31926 
37.56910 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-27A1 
  
-122.31922 
37.56901 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-27A4 
  
-122.31846 
37.56833 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-27A7 
  
-122.31828 
37.56845 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-27AA 
  
-122.31649 
37.56968 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-27B0 
  
-122.31556 
37.57041 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-50F7 
  
-122.32348 
37.56917 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-O902 
  
-122.31980 
37.56966 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-6141 
  
-122.33307 
37.53186 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-6147 
  
-122.33318 
37.53177 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-614A 
  
-122.33315 
37.53167 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-61B3 
  
-122.33793 
37.51985 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-622B 
  
-122.33852 
37.52061 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-622E 
  
-122.33737 
37.52188 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-6231 
  
-122.33718 
37.52176 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-61FE 
  
-122.33756 
37.52005 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-6222 
  
-122.33959 
37.52104 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-6225 
  
-122.33937 
37.52121 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-6228 
  
-122.33872 
37.52043 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-15F75 
  
-122.32883 
37.53292 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-15FB3 
  
-122.32757 
37.53309 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-1280F 
  
-122.32666 
37.53309 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-12963 
  
-122.32644 
37.53310 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-2A47 
  
-122.32286 
37.58138 
169 of 179

--- page 170 ---
Catchment 
Inlet ID 
Caltrans 
Longitude 
Latitude 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-3C4C 
  
-122.30748 
37.57461 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-3C4F 
  
-122.30706 
37.57449 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-BE9B 
  
-122.31659 
37.56809 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-BE89 
  
-122.31434 
37.56949 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-BE1A 
  
-122.31695 
37.56692 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-BE1D 
  
-122.31687 
37.56685 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-BE23 
  
-122.31666 
37.56691 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-BE11 
  
-122.31784 
37.56618 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-F77E 
  
-122.31649 
37.56812 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-17778 
  
-122.29615 
37.54996 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-1777E 
  
-122.29652 
37.55035 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-1769A 
  
-122.29783 
37.55105 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-1769D 
  
-122.29956 
37.55124 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-176A6 
  
-122.30031 
37.55126 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-176BB 
  
-122.30195 
37.55127 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-176DF 
  
-122.30524 
37.55117 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-61EF 
  
-122.33704 
37.52027 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-A682 
  
-122.28515 
37.56345 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-A685 
  
-122.28541 
37.56333 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-A6A9 
  
-122.28511 
37.55895 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-A6AF 
  
-122.28644 
37.56093 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-A6CA 
  
-122.28528 
37.55917 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-1A1A0 
  
-122.28547 
37.53186 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-3077E 
  
-122.28553 
37.56130 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-30829 
  
-122.28533 
37.56132 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-307D2 
  
-122.28553 
37.56169 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-30820 
  
-122.28534 
37.56168 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-30853 
  
-122.28510 
37.56236 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-3084C 
  
-122.28529 
37.56244 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-30987 
  
-122.28491 
37.56264 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-30868 
  
-122.28506 
37.56276 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-3075A 
  
-122.28506 
37.56056 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-3073E 
  
-122.28438 
37.55985 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-30888 
  
-122.28439 
37.56341 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-308AF 
  
-122.28375 
37.56377 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-3099C 
  
-122.28316 
37.56386 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-309C9 
  
-122.28252 
37.56375 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-30A04 
  
-122.28166 
37.56316 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-31388 
  
-122.28139 
37.56264 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-30A2F 
  
-122.28119 
37.56279 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-30A33 
  
-122.28097 
37.56262 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-3138D 
  
-122.28113 
37.56249 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-31393 
  
-122.28080 
37.56225 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-30A37 
  
-122.28067 
37.56239 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-30A41 
  
-122.28047 
37.56239 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-30A44 
  
-122.27981 
37.56220 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-305FC 
  
-122.27958 
37.56194 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-30774 
  
-122.28423 
37.56024 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-3073A 
  
-122.28406 
37.56005 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-30722 
  
-122.28375 
37.56024 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-30726 
  
-122.28391 
37.56040 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-30731 
  
-122.28331 
37.56059 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-3072D 
  
-122.28349 
37.56072 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-3070B 
  
-122.28312 
37.56111 
170 of 179

--- page 171 ---
Catchment 
Inlet ID 
Caltrans 
Longitude 
Latitude 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-30710 
  
-122.28294 
37.56101 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-30700 
  
-122.28294 
37.56134 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-30703 
  
-122.28275 
37.56124 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-306FA 
  
-122.28243 
37.56162 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-306ED 
  
-122.28195 
37.56221 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-306E7 
  
-122.28179 
37.56240 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-306DB 
  
-122.28165 
37.56257 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-305F9 
  
-122.27980 
37.56192 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-A5CB 
  
-122.28757 
37.56134 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-A5CE 
  
-122.28762 
37.56124 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-A694 
  
-122.28438 
37.56426 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-17C9B 
  
-122.28390 
37.54459 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-17C9E 
  
-122.28477 
37.54624 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-17CA1 
  
-122.28483 
37.54616 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-189EA 
  
-122.28534 
37.54273 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-189ED 
  
-122.28522 
37.54268 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-189F3 
  
-122.28476 
37.54347 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-18A44 
  
-122.28280 
37.53977 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-18A4D 
  
-122.28384 
37.54104 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-19274 
  
-122.28147 
37.53845 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-1A4C1 
  
-122.28927 
37.53327 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-3E364 
  
-122.28283 
37.53979 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-17CAA 
  
-122.28459 
37.54556 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-17CB0 
  
-122.28432 
37.54577 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-3F4CC 
  
-122.27946 
37.56230 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-27F8 
  
-122.30848 
37.57577 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-2633 
  
-122.31825 
37.57835 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-2636 
  
-122.31923 
37.57812 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-26F3 
  
-122.31527 
37.57262 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-3C2B 
  
-122.30773 
37.57455 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-3D7A 
  
-122.32243 
37.58115 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-3D7E 
  
-122.32176 
37.58162 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-51ED 
  
-122.31388 
37.57652 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-O2724 
  
-122.31037 
37.57400 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-O2725 
  
-122.30851 
37.57563 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-27DD 
  
-122.31312 
37.57207 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-A60D 
  
-122.29335 
37.55575 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-A610 
  
-122.29276 
37.55505 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-A63D 
  
-122.29332 
37.55551 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-A640 
  
-122.29260 
37.55516 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-15B75 
  
-122.30190 
37.53762 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-15B78 
Yes 
-122.29971 
37.53868 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-15B7B 
Yes 
-122.29908 
37.53813 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-15BCC 
  
-122.30079 
37.53541 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-15BCF 
  
-122.30035 
37.53503 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-15BD5 
  
-122.30013 
37.53501 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-1304D 
Yes 
-122.29532 
37.53530 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-130B0 
Yes 
-122.29626 
37.53601 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-130B3 
Yes 
-122.29642 
37.53586 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-130B6 
Yes 
-122.29661 
37.53602 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-130C8 
Yes 
-122.29716 
37.53662 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-130CB 
Yes 
-122.29771 
37.53711 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-15C38 
  
-122.29942 
37.53317 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-A86B 
  
-122.29274 
37.56561 
171 of 179

--- page 172 ---
Catchment 
Inlet ID 
Caltrans 
Longitude 
Latitude 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-FEC3 
  
-122.31175 
37.53372 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-14D7C 
  
-122.31334 
37.53307 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-14EB3 
  
-122.30995 
37.53437 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-14EB6 
  
-122.31028 
37.53432 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-130EC 
Yes 
-122.29763 
37.53682 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-130EF 
  
-122.29783 
37.53674 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-130F2 
  
-122.29799 
37.53687 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-130F5 
  
-122.29817 
37.53653 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-130F8 
  
-122.29843 
37.53634 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-130FB 
  
-122.29850 
37.53651 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-130FE 
  
-122.29883 
37.53602 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-13110 
Yes 
-122.29863 
37.53791 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-1343B 
  
-122.29831 
37.53665 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-13567 
  
-122.29734 
37.53665 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-14304 
  
-122.30081 
37.53850 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-14319 
Yes 
-122.30053 
37.53939 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-1431C 
  
-122.30026 
37.53884 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-1431F 
  
-122.30026 
37.53895 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-14322 
  
-122.30042 
37.53888 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-14325 
  
-122.30044 
37.53899 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-14328 
  
-122.30092 
37.53842 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-1432B 
  
-122.30098 
37.53848 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-15C47 
  
-122.29927 
37.53313 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-15C4A 
  
-122.29903 
37.53257 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-A883 
  
-122.29423 
37.56560 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-147BA 
  
-122.30314 
37.53178 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-147F0 
  
-122.30449 
37.53366 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-147F3 
  
-122.30455 
37.53370 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-15D3D 
  
-122.30168 
37.53786 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-12F21 
Yes 
-122.29810 
37.53728 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-12F24 
Yes 
-122.29790 
37.53710 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-130E3 
Yes 
-122.29809 
37.53744 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-12EC7 
  
-122.29750 
37.53687 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-12F09 
Yes 
-122.29549 
37.53495 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-12F0C 
Yes 
-122.29557 
37.53510 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-149C9 
  
-122.30426 
37.53327 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-BD93 
  
-122.31293 
37.57173 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-BD99 
  
-122.31186 
37.57199 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-19A4D 
  
-122.28987 
37.53492 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-19A68 
  
-122.28956 
37.53389 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-1A4BE 
  
-122.28932 
37.53327 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-18349 
  
-122.29210 
37.54173 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-1834C 
  
-122.29207 
37.54168 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-18358 
  
-122.29070 
37.54095 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-18352 
  
-122.29120 
37.54163 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-1834F 
  
-122.29118 
37.54181 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-18355 
  
-122.29117 
37.54145 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-3A19E 
  
-122.29759 
37.57183 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-39C3F 
  
-122.31072 
37.57259 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-F67C 
  
-122.31354 
37.57118 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-F98E 
  
-122.30850 
37.57459 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-1835E 
  
-122.29050 
37.54110 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-1836A 
  
-122.28949 
37.54173 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-18379 
  
-122.28776 
37.54276 
172 of 179

--- page 173 ---
Catchment 
Inlet ID 
Caltrans 
Longitude 
Latitude 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-1837C 
  
-122.28780 
37.54312 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-18D7E 
  
-122.29064 
37.53546 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-18D84 
  
-122.29091 
37.53546 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-18D87 
  
-122.29134 
37.53580 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-18D8A 
  
-122.29152 
37.53593 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-18D90 
  
-122.29273 
37.53709 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-1910E 
  
-122.29538 
37.53613 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-19111 
  
-122.29604 
37.53667 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-19114 
  
-122.29594 
37.53673 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-6FD 
Yes 
-122.32751 
37.56453 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-700 
Yes 
-122.32810 
37.56527 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-14A1E 
  
-122.31060 
37.52947 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-14A62 
  
-122.30796 
37.52993 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-14EB0 
  
-122.30794 
37.53123 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-142C0 
  
-122.30008 
37.53204 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-14313 
Yes 
-122.29971 
37.53914 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-15C3B 
  
-122.29909 
37.53245 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-15C3E 
  
-122.29946 
37.53230 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-130AD 
  
-122.29884 
37.53246 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-147B1 
  
-122.30261 
37.53095 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-147BD 
  
-122.30324 
37.53173 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-147EA 
  
-122.30385 
37.53270 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-130E6 
Yes 
-122.29799 
37.53751 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-15CA7 
  
-122.30151 
37.52929 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-147C3 
  
-122.30338 
37.53182 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-177BA 
  
-122.29053 
37.55285 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-17CA4 
  
-122.28444 
37.54666 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-BEA4 
  
-122.31741 
37.56744 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-BEA7 
  
-122.31734 
37.56751 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-O5385 
  
-122.31864 
37.57008 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-O5386 
  
-122.31833 
37.57007 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-O5387 
  
-122.31835 
37.56995 
Outside of Catchments 
SD-O5390 
  
-122.28526 
37.56190 
 
 
 
 
173 of 179

--- page 174 ---
Appendix D 
Cost Assumptions for Full Capture Systems 
 
The cost estimates presented should be considered preliminary planning-level estimates and may not 
include all costs associated with the design, planning, purchase, construction/installation, and operation 
and maintenance associated with each potential full capture system. Assumptions associated with 
estimating the costs for small and large systems are included. Costs estimates presented are based on the 
most readily available information at the time this Evaluation was conducted. Comparisons of capital and 
on-going operation and maintenance (O&M) costs between small and large full capture systems are 
included to assist San Mateo with the evaluation of the most cost-effective approaches to achieving 
mandated trash load reductions. More detailed cost estimates will be needed should San Mateo decide 
to move forward with full capture systems (large or small).  
Large Trash Full Capture Systems 
Base (i.e., planning, design, materials, and construction) and maintenance costs for large trash full 
capture systems were calculated using the information compiled from a comprehensive review of cost 
estimates and bids from existing projects in the Bay Area. The base costs for hydrodynamic separators 
(HDSs), nutrient/debris separation baffle box (NSBB/DSBB), and gross solids removal devices (GSRD) 
generally increase with the expected 1-year flow, although each site will have specific considerations 
(e.g., utility conflicts and permitting) that must be accounted for to accurately estimate costs. To develop 
planning-level cost estimates, a power regression was developed based on the review of existing cost 
information.  
The following assumptions were used to determine base costs for large trash full capture systems: 
• 
The formulas used for estimating base and maintenance costs are outlined in Table D1; 
• 
30% of base costs are included in the final costs to account for design costs, administration, and 
construction contingencies;  
• 
Systems are installed in areas which do not require major utility relocation, property or easement 
acquisition or environmental permitting; 
• 
Systems in channels require the installation of a concrete pad, and may be significantly less 
expensive if the concrete is already installed;  
• 
Total costs are presented in the assumed construction year (2019) dollars, and no financing or 
discounting costs are included;  
• 
Large systems are assumed to have a lifetime of 50 years and will need to be replaced after this 
time; and 
• 
Cost sharing agreements with other agencies such as Caltrans are not factored into this analysis. 
Base costs are much higher for large full capture systems than small systems, however, they have 
significantly lower maintenance costs over the long-term. Lower maintenance costs often result in lower 
lifecycle costs for large systems, compared with small systems. Most costs associated with large systems 
are not associated with the system itself, rather with the planning, design, installation, utility conflicts, 
and permitting. Installation costs for large systems include mobilization and demobilization, traffic 
control, stormwater pollution prevention plan preparation, contractor’s markup, excavation, hauling, 
174 of 179

--- page 175 ---
shoring, backfilling, dewatering, surface replacement, bypass pumping, diversion structure, and 
connections to the storm drainage system. As a result, the overall costs for designing, purchasing and 
constructing a large HDS or NSBB/DSBB system often exceed $1M.  
Operation and maintenance cost estimates assume that large systems are maintained at least 1 to 6 
times per year. Newly installed large systems should likely be maintained more often during the first year 
to determine debris volumes (i.e., maintenance frequency) and system performance.  
Figure D1 contains the estimated base and maintenance costs curves for a large trash full capture system 
under different storm flows. Many of these costs were derived from estimates provided by the City of San 
Jose and other cities in the Bay Area that recently installed large full capture systems.5 Based on the 
experiences of these cities, the majority of material captured in large full capture systems in urban areas 
is usually organic material (e.g., leaf litter and sediment).  
 
Table D1. Assumptions used to develop preliminary cost estimates for large trash full capture systems. 
Type of System 
Assumptions 
Considerations 
Base Costsa,b  
(thousands) 
Maintenance 
Costs (annual)c 
HDS  
StormTrap Netting 
System 
GSRD 
Underground 
  
$320 +  
$56 x [Design Flow]0.68 
$1,500 +   
$500 x [Design 
Flow]0.50 
NSBB/DSBB  
Underground 
  
$130 +  
$260 x [Design Flow]0.30 
StormTrap Netting 
Systemd 
In Channel 
  
$166 +  
$15.7 x [Design Flow]0.59 
GSRD3 
  
$163 +  
$6.2 x [Design Flow]0.89 
Netting System  
(Oldcastle NetTech) 
<=36" diameter outfall 
$14.4/net 
36-42" diameter outfall 
$18.3/net 
42-60" diameter outfall 
$21.1/net 
>60" diameter outfall 
Installation must include the 
construction of a weir, and 
therefore would increase 
significantly 
a Design Flow is the estimated 1-year maximum flow in cubic feet per second  
b Base cost presented here include a 30% contingency, but other considerations such as utility conflicts and permitting may increase costs 
beyond this amount. 
c Replacing nets vs cleaning nets may affect cost assumptions 
d A diversion to a full capture system may significantly increase costs. 
 
                                                          
5 Also includes cities of Mountain View, San Bruno, San Mateo, South San Francisco and personal communication with Schaaf & Wheeler 
Consulting Engineers staff. Maintenance costs were provided by cities of San Jose and Vallejo Flood and Wastewater. Citations can be found in 
the References Section of this report. All base and O&M cost estimates presented in Table 9 were smoothed out using best fit regression 
curves. 
175 of 179

--- page 176 ---
Figure D1. Base costs (including 30% contingency costs) and annual maintenance costs assumptions for a large 
underground DSBB system. 
 
Small Trash Full Capture Systems 
The following assumptions were used to determine base costs for purchasing and installing small trash 
full capture systems: 
• 
Connector pipe screens or catch basin inserts are assumed to be installed in catch basin with 
dimensions of 24” x 36”; and 
• 
Manufacture and installation costs for each connector pipe screen or catch basin insert is $1,000 
per system. Small systems vendors usually lump the costs of manufacturing and installation 
together.6 
The following assumptions were used to determine cleaning, replacement and maintenance cost 
estimates:  
• 
Connector pipe screens or catch basin inserts are cleaned an average of four times a year, and 
can be cleaned out by San Mateo or a subcontractor for $100 including labor and equipment;7 
• 
Replacement of connector pipe screens and catch basin inserts is assumed to occur every 20 
years; and 
Replacement costs are $1,000, identical to initial manufacture/installation costs. 
 
                                                          
6 Costs for small full capture systems can range from $450-2400 per system depending on the manufacturer and number of systems installed. 
7 Price will vary depending on labor costs and the need to purchase equipment. San Mateo may be unable to hire non-union subcontractors to 
maintain the catch basins.  
176 of 179

--- page 177 ---
Appendix E 
Large System Siting and Sizing 
 
When selecting a large trash full capture system, it is important to consider the size of the drainage area, 
hydraulic losses across the system when the system is full, the permitting requirements, system 
maintenance and access, property rights, and utility clearance. All factors should be weighed against the 
system type, construction costs and future operation and maintenance (O&M) costs to ensure maximum 
trash load reduction per dollar spent. 
Large systems can be installed off-line from the main trunk with a diversion structure to re-direct the 
treatment flow rate. Off-line installations optimize system size since they are not required to have an 
overflow capacity equal to the capacity of the existing storm drain line. There is the potential for 
increasing the number of utility conflicts with an off-line installation since it requires a greater footprint 
for the facility. Existing utilities and right-of-way restrictions may dictate where a large system can be 
installed. When the City decides to move forward with implementation of any large trash full capture 
system, the location of existing utilities will need to be evaluated. The presence of utilities at proposed 
installation locations must be field verified prior to starting any system design. 
For sizing large systems, the rational method for estimating peak runoff described in the Santa Clara 
County Drainage Manual (Schaaf and Wheeler, 2007) was used. This method has a long history of 
usefulness for stormwater conveyance system design in highly urbanized areas characterized by relatively 
small watersheds with largely impervious areas. The rational method uses the following equation to 
calculate peak runoff:  
QT = k CiT A  
Where:   
Q = peak discharge (cfs) 
T = recurrence interval (years) 
k = 1.008 (most often rounded to 1) 
C = a dimensionless runoff coefficient 
i = the design rainfall intensity (inches per hour) for a  
duration equal to the time of concentration8 for the basin 
A = drainage area (acres) 
Runoff coefficients (C) described in the manual for soil hydrologic group D and listed in Table C1 were 
applied to the City’s land uses within the catchments or sub-catchments. A recurrence interval (T) of one-
year, consistent with the definition of a full capture system, was used. The design rainfall intensity (i) was 
developed for each catchment/sub-catchment using a formula provided the Drainage Manual.  The 
intensity varies by catchment depending on the Time of Concentration, and therefore is a more accurate 
method than using a uniform rainfall intensity (i.e. the 1-year 1-hour storm). In general, the larger the 
catchment, the longer it will take the peak flow to reach a point downstream. This difference in time will 
cause the precipitation intensity (i) to vary by more than a factor of 2 depending on the catchment.  
                                                          
8 Time of Concentration is the time needed for water to flow from the most remote point of a catchment to the flow point, or can be thought of 
as the time between peak rainfall and peak flow. Rainfall intensity will vary significantly based on this length of time. Rainfall intensities were 
verified to match the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) precipitation frequency dataserver 
(http://hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/pfds/pfds_map_cont.html) 
177 of 179

--- page 178 ---
Table C1. Runoff Coefficients for Sizing Large Systems 
Land Use 
Runoff Coefficient (C) 
Arterial Road 
0.80 
Commercial 
0.80 
Freeways 
0.85 
Industrial 
0.75 
Railroad 
0.50 
Rangeland/Forest 
0.30 
Residential - High Density 
0.75 
Residential - Low Density 
0.45 
Residential – Rural 
0.40 
Retail 
0.80 
Schools 
0.60 
Urban Open Space 
0.45 
 
Estimated treatment flow rates for all of the catchments and subcatchments were calculated using the 
rational method. Since the rational method is primarily used for catchments under 300 acres, a scaling 
factor was used to more closely approximate the one-year flow of larger catchments. The Water Board 
has indicated that a simplified rational method that uses a rainfall intensity of 0.2 in/hr is acceptable for 
sizing large systems over 50 acres if there is limited space available. However, that methodology would 
significantly undersize smaller large systems by more than half in many cases.  It is better to use the more 
accurate calculation used in this evaluation for estimating the one-year flow so that there is less bypass of 
the treatment system.   
A more advanced method using hydrologic modelling software such as the U.S Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA) Storm Water Management Model (SWMM) or the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Hydrologic 
Modeling System (HEC-HMS) could be used to more accurately calculate flows for larger catchments. 
However, that is not necessary because all larger catchments would contain a diversion or large overflow 
to allow much of the higher flows to bypass the treatment system. Although it changes based on the 
characteristics of the catchment, a rough approximation of the relationship between catchment area and 
one-year flow is presented in Figure C1. Treatment flow rates for each of the catchments and sub-
catchments are listed in Table C2 and were used to estimate the sizes and costs of potential large trash 
full capture systems proposed to treat each catchment. Flow was reduced for Leslie Creek at the 
Wastewater Plant to account for using the channel for detention and the limitations of the pump station 
that would need to be installed as part of the system.  
 
178 of 179

--- page 179 ---
Figure C1. Approximate relationship between catchment size and design one-year flow. 
 
Table C2. Estimated 1-year 1-hour design flow requirements for potential large full capture systems  
Catchment 
Total Acres 
Runoff Coefficient 
(C) for the 
Catchment 
Treatment 
Intensity  
(i 1-year storm) 
(in/hr) 
Treatment Flow 
Rate  
(Q 1-year storm) 
(cfs) 
3rd & Detroit 
240 
0.49 
0.30 
32 
42nd & Pacific 
178 
0.54 
0.43 
36 
Borel Creek at Trinta Park 
695 
0.51 
0.41 
113 
Delaware & Saratoga 
121 
0.66 
0.44 
31 
Leslie Creek at Tracks 
482 
0.51 
0.42 
84 
Leslie Creek at Wastewater Plant 
1,226 
0.55 
0.33 
100 
Palm & 21st 
732 
0.55 
0.44 
133 
Poplar & 2nd 
36 
0.47 
0.47 
8 
Poplar & Monte Diablo 
44 
0.50 
0.47 
10 
Poplar at Golf Course 
376 
0.58 
0.39 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
0
50
100
150
200
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
Design Flow (cfs)
Catchment Area (acres)
179 of 179