source: packet.pdf
sha256: ec0940198dbd67fd674a2a454201b7242051e7bbe9efa94443f9f3dd0e440b57
pages: 163
ocr_pages: 18
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
September 21, 2020
7:00 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Joe Goethals, Mayor
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor
Rick Bonilla
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
PURSUANT TO AUTHORIZATION FROM
GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: September 21, 2020 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Enter Conference ID: 832 8427 6357
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CEREMONIAL
1.
“Cut the Commute Pledge” – Commute.org Presentation
2.
“Disasters Don’t Wait. Make Your Plan Today." – National Preparedness Month Proclamation
3.
Constitution Week – Proclamation
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
4.
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the Special and Regular City Council meeting of September 8, 2020.
5.
Safe Gun Storage – Ordinance Adoption
Adopt an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code to add Chapter 10.28 "Safe Gun Storage."
1 of 163

--- page 2 ---
6.
Borel Park Improvements – Informal Pre-Application Process Exemption
Adopt a Resolution to exempt the Borel Park improvements site development planning application from the
informal pre-application process.
7.
Age Friendly Cities – Application Approval
Approve submittal of San Mateo’s Age Friendly Cities application to join the American Association of Retired
Persons Network of Age Friendly States and Communities, and authorize the Mayor to sign the application.
8.
Street Rehabilitation Package 1-C – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the agreement with WRECO Inc. for professional design services in the amount of
$43,260 for a new agreement total of $339,828; and increase the contingency reserve to $30,000.
9.
28th Avenue Bicycle Boulevard Project – Agreement
Award an agreement to Golden Bay Construction, Inc. for construction of the 28th Avenue Bicycle Boulevard
project in the amount of $454,375; establish a contingency reserve of $45,000; and authorize the Public Works
Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the
contingency amount.
10.
City Hall Restrooms Remodel – Change Order No. 1
Adopt a Resolution to approve Change Order No. 1 with Pride Industries to perform abatement services in an
amount not to exceed $47,165.11 and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the change order.
11.
On-Call Private Development Services – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the agreement with CSG Consultants, Inc., an engineering firm, for on-call
specialized subdivision map review and processing services in the amount of $90,000, for a new agreement total
of $180,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form
presented.
12.
Office of Traffic Safety – Grant Spending Plan
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate funds for the Office of Traffic Safety Selective Traffic Enforcement Program
grant totaling $85,000; and authorize the Police Chief to execute the agreement and expend the funds.
13.
Edward Byrne 2020 Justice Assistance Grant Program – Application
Adopt a Resolution to approve the submittal of an application to the United States Department of Justice, Bureau
of Justice Assistance, for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program for the 2020 local
solicitation in the amount of $17,062; and if awarded, authorize execution of all required documents and
appropriate funds to the Police Grants Budget Program.
14.
Radio System Maintenance – Agreement
Approve an agreement with Telecommunications Engineering Associates for maintenance of City radio systems
for a term of five years at an annual cost of $51,041 and a total cumulative contract cost of $255,205; and
authorize the Police Chief to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
15.
San Mateo Management Employees Association – Memorandum of Understanding Amendment
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the San Mateo Management Employees
Association for a term through April 12, 2025.
2 of 163

--- page 3 ---
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
OLD BUSINESS
16.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade Construction Services – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the agreement with Sundt Construction, Inc. for services to construct the third
package of the Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and Expansion Project for a Guaranteed Maximum Price of
$379,880,747; approve a contingency reserve in the amount of $13,900,000; and authorize the Public Works
Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the
contingency amount.
17.
Solid Waste Update and Rate Notification
Approve no rate increase for the solid waste, recycling, and compost collection in rate year 2021 and use
designated funds within the Rate Stabilization Fund to offset any revenue shortfall.
18.
Regulations on the Sale of Electronic Cigarettes, Flavored Tobacco and the Sale of Tobacco Products in
Pharmacies – Ordinance Introduction
Introduce an Ordinance to prohibit the sale of e-cigarettes and flavored tobacco products, and to prohibit the sale
of tobacco products in pharmacies.
19.
Measure R and Measure Y – Public Education Effort
Provide direction on efforts to educate the public on general plan ballot measures.
20.
Covid-19 Update #16
Receive an update on operational impacts and other City efforts related to COVID-19 and confirm rules and
regulations issued by the City Manager acting as the Director of Emergency Services in response to declared
emergency and confirm the need for continuing the local emergency.
21.
Outdoor Dining in Public Right of Way – Extension
Adopt a Resolution to approve the extension of the temporary street closures and use of the public right-of-way
for outdoor dining through March 1, 2021 and approve the updated outdoor dining guidelines; adopt a Resolution
for an additional appropriation of $111,500 to the City Manager’s Office 2020-21 operating budget; authorize the
City Manager to procure water-filled barricades for a cost not to exceed $181,500 from D&M traffic services; and
provide guidance on longer term outdoor dining installations.
NEW BUSINESS
22.
Building Electrification Reach Codes – Ordinance Introduction
Introduce one of the following two Ordinance options related to building electrification: 1) an Ordinance to
amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.24 “Energy Code” to require new multifamily residential
buildings be all-electric; or 2) an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.24 “Energy
Code” to require new residential buildings and buildings with office use be all-electric.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
3 of 163

--- page 4 ---
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your
comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
4 of 163

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3629
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Department
MEETING DATE:
September 21, 2020 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Special and Regular City Council meeting of September 8, 2020.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Special Meeting minutes September 8, 2020 
Att 2 - Regular Meeting minutes September 8, 2020
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
5 of 163

--- page 6 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 09/08/2020
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Joe Goethals, Mayor
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor
Rick Bonilla
Diane Papan
Amourence Lee
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Tuesday, September 8, 2020
Remote 5:30 PM
Special Meeting
 
CLOSED SESSION
Public Comment - Kevin Kobayashi, Golf Services Manager, Management Employees Association President, urged 
continuing to negotiate with the other units to encourage all to come to the negotiation table; he noted the management 
unit members are generally supportive of the process and for having the opportunity to be part of the discussion. 
Following the opportunity for public comment, Council convened into closed session to consider:
1.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Existing Litigation
(Paragraph (1) of Subdivision (d) of Government Code Section 54956.9) Workers' Compensation Claim Travis 
Barker
2.
Conference with Labor Negotiators (Government Code Section 54957.6)
City designated representatives: Stacey Cue, Casey Echarte, and Teresa Abrahamsohn Employee Organization: 
Management Association, Safety Management, Sergeants, SMCEA, POA, SEIU 521 Maintenance, SEIU 521 Library 
Merit, and SEIU 521 Library Per Diem 
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 6:55 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                      
                                                           
Joe Goethals, Mayor                                                   
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
6 of 163

--- page 7 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 09/08/20
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Joe Goethals, Mayor
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor
Rick Bonilla
Diane Papan
Amourence Lee
City of San Mateo 
Regular Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Tuesday, September 8, 2020
Remote 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency.
 
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
Present: Mayor Goethals, Council Members: Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan and Lee
CEREMONIAL
 
1.
Wildfire Mitigation Plan Update – Presentation
2.
Mayor’s Quarterly Hero Award
3.
Labor Day Proclamation
CONSENT CALENDAR 
The following items, 4 through 11, and 13 through 16 were considered to be routine by the City Council. Item 12 was 
removed and considered separately. After the titles of the items were read by the City Clerk, the public was invited to 
comment and there were no speakers. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Rodriguez
Ayes: 
Goethals, Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan and Lee
Noes: 
None
4.
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval 
Approve the minutes of the Special and Regular meetings of August 17, 2020 and the Special meeting of 
September 1, 2020.
5.
League of California Cities Annual Conference – Voting Delegate Designation
Designate Council member Rick Bonilla as the City's Voting Delegate for the 2020 League of California Cities Annual 
Conference. 
6.
Concar "Passage" Mixed Use Project Development Agreement Approval – Ordinance Adoption
Adopt an Ordinance to approve a Development Agreement for the Concar Passage Mixed Use Project.
Enactment:  Ordinance No. 2020-13
7 of 163

--- page 8 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 09/08/20
Page 2
7.
El Camino Real Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation Project – Agreement
Award an agreement to EPS, Inc. for construction of the El Camino Real Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation Project in an 
amount not to exceed $1,795,328; establish a contingency reserve in an amount not to exceed $200,000; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue 
change orders within the contingency amount.
8.
Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package 1-B Project – Agreement
Award an agreement to McKim Corporation for the Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package 1-B Project in the 
amount of $1,318,597.14; establish a contingency reserve of $130,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to 
execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue contract change orders within the 
contingency reserve.
9.
Contracts with Contingency Component – Update
Receive the report on citywide contracts contingency fund expenditures for the period from July 1, 2015 through 
June 30, 2020.
10.
Active Transportation Program Grant Application – Letter of Support
Approve a letter of support to the California Transportation Commission for the Active Transportation Program 
Cycle 5 grant application; and authorize the Mayor to sign the letter on behalf of the City Council.
11.
Rule 20A Utility Undergrounding – Agreements
Approve agreements with PG&E for Rule 20A Utility Undergrounding projects and authorize the Public Works 
Director to execute the agreements in substantially the form presented.
13.
California High Speed Rail Environmental Impact Report – Comment Letter 
Approve the City of San Mateo comment letter regarding the California High Speed Rail Environmental Impact 
Report for the San Francisco to San Jose segment. 
14.
Tree Trimming Services – Agreement 
Adopt a Resolution to find that an alternative purchasing procedure is in the best interest of the City and award an 
agreement to Arborwell, Inc. for the pruning of 28 eucalyptus trees in the amount of $112,195; establish a 
contingency reserve in the amount of $10,000; and authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute the 
contract in substantially the form presented and to issue change orders within the contingency amount. 
Enactment:  Resolution No. 95 (2020)
15.
Community Development Department and Public Works Department – Classification Updates
Adopt a Resolution to approve the 1) reallocation of a vacant Principal Planner to a Senior Planner; 2) 
consolidation of the job specifications for the classifications of Sewer Maintenance Leadworker and Street 
Maintenance Leadworker into one job specification for the new classification of Public Works Maintenance 
Leadworker; and 3) revisions to the job specification for the classification of Laboratory Analyst I-II. 
Enactment:  Resolution No. 96 (2020)
16.
Merit Employees Salary Schedule – Approval
Adopt a Resolution to authorize and approve the City of San Mateo merit employee current pay rates and ranges 
(salary schedule).
8 of 163

--- page 9 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 09/08/20
Page 3
Enactment:  Resolution No. 97 (2020)
END OF CONSENT CALENDAR
REMOVED FROM CONSENT CALENDAR
12.
Public Works Bucket Truck Purchase – Contract
Council Member Bonilla pulled this item to request local purchase. Public Works Director Brad Underwood 
responded to questions. Council discussion ensued and it was recommended that this request be brought forward 
for annual goal setting discussion. 
Motion to Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing process for the contract with Downtown Ford 
Sales in the amount of $198,742.02 for the purchase of one Ford F-750 bucket truck and authorize the Public 
Works Director to execute the purchase contract in substantially the form presented. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Bonilla, Seconded: Rodriguez
Ayes: 
Goethals, Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan and Lee
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Resolution No. 98 (2020)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Patricia Hustedt commented she has been dealing with a neighbor on code enforcement issue for four months, and she is 
not finding the City responsive. Adeli Skillin spoke in support of flavored tobacco regulation.
OLD BUSINESS 
 
17.
E-Cigarette and Flavored Tobacco Regulations
City Attorney Shawn Mason provided an overview of existing regulations, requested regulations, and impacts from 
SB793. Council asked questions of staff. Dr. Bonnie Halpern-Felsher provided a deep review of the issue.
Public Comment – Jen Grand-Lejano, American Cancer Association, in support of an ordinance; Shawneece 
Stevenson, Bay Area Community Health Advisory Council, spoke to African American youth in community; Bob 
Gordon, San Mateo County Tobacco Coalition, encouraged support for the ordinance; Patricia McDaniel, tobacco 
control researcher, stated the City should mirror the County’s ordinance; Tricia Barr, stated the Parent Teacher 
Association adopted a resolution this summer to urge banning flavored e-cigarettes tobacco products; Amaya 
Wooding, LGBQT Tobacco coalition, spoke in support of the ordinance; Mayra Amador, San Mateo County Health 
Tobacco Prevention Program, spoke in support to restrict the sale of flavored tobacco; and Blythe Young, 
Community Advocacy Director for American Heart Association, stated the need for a comprehensive policy. 
Council provided direction to staff to prepare an ordinance to regulate E-cigarettes and flavored tobacco products 
and generally were in favor of using the County’s ordinance as the framework. They had questions regarding 
enforcement and educational outreach opportunities and encouraged staff to do this quickly.
18.
COVID-19 Update 
City Manager Drew Corbett provided a presentation on operational impacts and other City efforts related to 
COVID-19 noting: the updated health order is to Purple Tier 1; the City’s continuing support for distance learning; 
the collaboration and community partnerships; that the City is partnering with the County on a mobile testing van 
for North Central; and addressing some safety concerns for parklets downtown. He noted that no Council action is 
9 of 163

--- page 10 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 09/08/20
Page 4
needed at this time. Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment – Lisa Tealer stated support for the mobile 
COVID testing in the North Central neighborhood.
NEW BUSINESS
19.
Business Tax Apportionment Rules – Approval 
This item was removed from the agenda and will be brought forward at a future meeting. 
Council recessed from 8:54 pm to 9:00 pm.
20.
Safe Gun Storage – Ordinance Introduction
City Attorney Shawn Mason provided the background on the safe gun storage movement. Council asked questions 
of staff. Public Comment speaking in support – Austin Traver; Nancy Gogan, Moms Demand Action; Teri Whitehair; 
John Selling; Kelly Traver, Moms Demand Action; Valerie Xu; Bradd Silver; and Margaret O’Connell. Council spoke in 
support. 
Motion to Introduce an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code to add Chapter 10.28 "Safe Gun 
Storage." Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Goethals, Seconded: Papan
Ayes: 
Goethals, Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan and Lee
Noes: 
None
21.
Racial Equality Community Public Art Project
Senior Management Analyst Heather Stewart noted she manages the Art in Public Places Program and she 
reviewed prior direction given and outlined funding and location issues. Council asked questions of staff. Public 
Comment – Nancy G stated consider a structure instead of a mural. Council discussion ensued with comments that 
the public needs to be involved and ideas on locations and a public process.
Deputy Mayor Rodriguez expressed concern with graffiti damage, prefers smaller installations in various locations, 
and noted the City could seek matching funds from the community and business community. Council Member Lee 
expressed concern with vandalism and the need for a protected location. She encouraged diversity by using 
multiple artists in multiple locations and outlined possible partnerships. Mayor Goethals advised to issue an RFP to 
the community to submit a project that supports racial equity and give the local community a month or two to 
respond. He is cautious about not depleting the money in the Civic Arts Committee fund. Council Member Papan 
prefers the idea of more than one location; using racial equity as a concept as it exists in different ways; utility 
boxes have a great deal of appeal; and need community input. Council Member Bonilla is in agreement with the 
suggestions.
The Civic Arts Committee will work on ideas and will return to Council. 
22.
Emergency Ordinance – Moratorium on Enforcement of Zoning Regulations for Outdoor Business Operations
Economic Development Manager Jennifer Chen provided a presentation on the need for the emergency ordinance 
to allow the temporary suspension of zoning regulations to allow certain businesses to move operations outside of 
an enclosed building. The emergency ordinance would be in effect for 90 days. Council asked questions of staff. 
Public Comment – There were no speakers. 
Motion to Adopt an Emergency Ordinance to impose a moratorium on enforcement of zoning regulations to allow 
for restaurants, gym and fitness centers, personal care services, hair salons and barbershops, places of worship and 
10 of 163

--- page 11 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 09/08/20
Page 5
shopping malls to operate outside of an enclosed building during the COVID-19 public health emergency. Motion 
passed 5-0.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Bonilla
Ayes: 
Goethals, Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan and Lee
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Emergency Ordinance No. 2020-14
23.
Emergency Ordinance – Residential Eviction Moratorium
City Attorney Shawn Mason provided a presentation for Council to consider adopting an Emergency Ordinance to 
establish a moratorium on evictions of residential tenants impacted by COVID-19 pandemic. He outlined the laws 
currently impacting this. Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment – There were no speakers. Council, by 
consensus would like to wait and see how AB3088 plays out before taking any action on this. 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
The City Manager, City Attorney and City Council reported on their various committees and liaison roles. 
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 10:21 pm.
APPROVED BY:
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                           
                                                           
Joe Goethals, Mayor 
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
 
11 of 163

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3622
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Attorney Department
MEETING DATE:
September 21, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Safe Gun Storage – Ordinance Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code to add Chapter 10.28 "Safe Gun Storage."
BACKGROUND:
Ordinance Introduction date: September 8, 2020
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Shawn Mason, City Attorney
smason@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7022
12 of 163

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ORDINANCE NO. 2020-__
 Add Chapter 10.28 “Safe Gun Storage” to the San Mateo Municipal Code
WHEREAS, unsecured guns may increase the likelihood of crime and violence through an increased risk 
of gun theft; and
WHEREAS,  each year, an estimated 200,000 to 500,000 guns are stolen, and many are funneled into the 
underground market; and
WHEREAS,  access to unsecured firearms contributes to gun violence among children and teens; and
WHEREAS,  despite the safety risks, the majority of gun owners do not secure all of their firearms; and
WHEREAS,  contrary to popular belief, locking devices do not prevent owners from readily accessing 
their firearms; and
WHEREAS,  we are all safer when guns are stored unloaded, locked and separate from ammunition.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Chapter 10.28 “Safe Gun Storage” is added to Title 10, “Peace, Safety and Morals” of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code to read as follows:
Chapter 10.28 Safe Gun Storage
Sections:
10.28.010 Title
10.28.020 Definitions
10.28.030 Safe Gun Storage Required
10.28.040 Violations and Enforcement
10.28.010 Title
This Chapter shall be known as Safe Gun Storage.
10.28.020 Definitions
For the purposes of the Chapter 10.28, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning set forth herein:
(a)  “Firearm” means a device, designed to be used as a weapon, from which is expelled through a 
barrel, a projectile by the force of an explosion or other form of combustion. 
13 of 163

--- page 14 ---
(b) “Locked container” means a secure container that is fully enclosed and locked by a padlock, keylock, 
combination lock, or similar locking device. “Locked container” shall not include the utility or glove 
compartment of a motor vehicle. 
(c) “Locking device” means a trigger lock or other designed to prevent a firearm from functioning and, 
when applied to the firearm, renders the firearm inoperable. 
(d) “Unloaded” means without a cartridge in the chamber of the firearm; in the cylinder of the firearm, if 
the firearm is a revolver; or in the magazine of the firearm, if any part of the magazine is in or affixed to the 
firearm. 
10.28.030 Safe Gun Storage Required
No person shall store or keep any firearm on any premises unless the firearm is unloaded and in a locked 
container, or unloaded and affixed with a locking device; or carried on the person, or is otherwise in the 
immediate possession of an individual in accordance with all applicable laws.
10.28.040 Violations and Enforcement
Any violation of this chapter is punishable as specified in Title 1 of the San Mateo Municipal Code.
Section 2. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 21065, this ordinance is not a project because it can be seen with certainty that it’s adoption 
will not cause a physical change in the environment.
Section 3. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 4. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 5. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on August 8, 2020, and 
adopted on ------------, and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
14 of 163

--- page 15 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3573
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
September 21, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Borel Park Improvements – Informal Pre-Application Process Exemption 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to exempt the Borel Park improvements site development planning application from the informal pre-
application process. 
BACKGROUND:
The Parks and Recreation Department will be submitting a planning application for a site development planning 
application for site grading that is needed to construct the Borel Park Master Plan improvements.  Under City Council 
Resolution 98-2008, the planning application is subject to the informal pre-application process, which requires that a 
project applicant hold a neighborhood meeting within 60 days prior to consideration by the Zoning Administrator.  
As part of the process for developing and finalizing the Borel Park Master Plan, a total of six neighborhood and public 
hearings were conducted to solicit public input on the desired amenities within the park.  Those public comments and 
input received informed the final Borel Park Master Plan, which was approved by the City Council on January 22, 2019. 
Subsequent to the Master Plan adoption, the Parks and Recreation Commission held another public hearing in September 
2019 to review more refined plans that focused on the playground design, shade structures, park lighting, and choice of 
landscape materials.  Since then, David Volz Design has been working on preparing construction drawings consistent with 
the approved plan.  
Given that public input was gathered at the time of developing Master Plan alternatives, as well as the ability to comment 
both to the Park and Recreation Commission and the City Council during the approval phase, it appears redundant to 
schedule another public meeting only to meet the requirements of the informal pre-application process, given where we 
are in the schedule. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
By exempting the project from the informal pre-application process, the City will not incur expenses related to the printing 
and mailing of neighborhood notices, as well as staff and design consultant time needed to host the meeting. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is not subject to CEQA as exempting the Planning Application from the informal pre-application process is a 
general policy activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(2).
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
15 of 163

--- page 16 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Sheila Canzian, Director, Park and Recreation
scanzian@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7404
16 of 163

--- page 17 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2020)
EXEMPTING SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANNING APPLICATION FOR BOREL PARK IMPROVEMENTS FROM THE 
INFORMAL PRE-APPLICATION PROCESS
WHEREAS, the City’s Parks and Recreation Department will be submitting a planning application for a 
Site Development Planning Application for site grading in connection with improvements to Borel Park (the 
“Planning Application”); and
WHEREAS, under Council Resolution No. 98 (2008), the Planning Application is subject to the informal 
pre- application process, which requires that a project applicant hold a neighborhood meeting before the 
project may be formally considered by the Zoning Administrator; and
WHEREAS, the Parks and Recreation Department has already conducted a neighborhood meeting 
regarding the Park Master Plan for Borel Park, which included a discussion of site grading; and
WHEREAS, the Parks and Recreation Department conducted additional community outreach for the Park 
Master Plan for improvements at Borel Park, including presentations at meetings of the Park and Recreation 
Commission; and
WHEREAS, on January 22, 2019, the City Council, on recommendation by the Park and Recreation 
Commission, approved the Park Master Plan for Borel Park; and
WHEREAS, the Parks and Recreation Department will be submitting a site development planning 
application for the Project; and
WHEREAS, Council Resolution No. 98 (2008) would require the Parks and Recreation Department to 
undergo the informal pre-application procedure specifically for the site development planning application and 
delay the commencement of the construction by several months; and
WHEREAS, the Council finds that exempting the Planning Application from the informal pre- application 
process is in the best interests of the Borel Park improvement project and park users; and
WHEREAS, the proposed modifications to the Project are still subject to review and approval by the 
Zoning Administrator; and
WHEREAS, the Council finds that exempting the Planning Application from the formal pre- application 
process a general policy making activity and not a project as defined by the California Environmental Quality Act, 
in accordance with CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b)(2).
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVED 
that:
1. The formal pre-application procedures established in Council Resolution No. 98 (2008) shall not 
apply to the site development planning application for improvements at Borel Park.
17 of 163

--- page 18 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3578
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
September 21, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Age Friendly Cities – Application Approval 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve submittal of San Mateo’s Age Friendly Cities application to join the American Association of Retired Persons 
Network of Age Friendly States and Communities, and authorize the Mayor to sign the application. 
BACKGROUND:
In 2019, San Mateo was selected by the County of San Mateo as part of the second cohort of county cities to participate in 
the Age Friendly Cities Initiative.  The Age Friendly Cities Initiative is a collaborative effort between AARP (American 
Association of Retired Persons) and the World Health Organization (WHO) to encourage cities to adopt policies and 
programs that support the needs of older adults.  The City Council included participation in the Age Friendly Cities initiative 
as one of its Strategic Plan Goals for fiscal year 2020-21. 
The County of San Mateo contracted with Cities for Age Friendly Excellence (CAFE), who have served as the project 
facilitators for this effort.  Under their leadership, a community task force of approximately 10 individuals was formed, 
which represented a mix of older adults, service providers, city staff, and a representative of the Senior Citizens 
Commission.  Despite the onset of COVID-19 in mid-March, task force members agreed to continue the process and to 
undertake their outreach efforts through virtual focus groups and 1:1 telephone interviews. Over 50 diverse individuals 
participated and provided feedback from their perspective on the eight domains of livability: outdoor spaces and buildings; 
transportation; social participation; housing; respect and social inclusion; work and civic engagement; communication and 
information; and community and health services.  Their feedback informed the choice of the task force’s four inaugural 
age friendly projects:

Safe Walking Routes for Everyone

Improving the Coordination of Communication for Older Adult Services/Programs/Events

Intergenerational Programs

Age Friendly Business Recognition 
While the City will take a facilitation and coordination role, other stakeholders such as the Chamber of Commerce, 
community non-profits, faith-based organizations, schools, etc. will be wrapped in as partners. 
By developing collaborative partnerships with our community-based organizations, the long-range outcome is to ensure 
that San Mateo becomes a more livable “age friendly city” for all of our residents, especially those over 60. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact anticipated at this time.  Existing City staff will continue to facilitate the projects moving forward 
18 of 163

--- page 19 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
and will look to integrate these efforts with ones that may already be underway.  
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15301, this application is categorically exempt from CEQA because, in the 
event that the City receives funding, the funds will be used to improve existing City sidewalks.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Age Friendly Cities Application 
STAFF CONTACT
Sheila Canzian, Director, Park and Recreation
scanzian@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7404
19 of 163

--- page 20 ---
011019
Membership Application: AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities – Page 1
Bob Palacio, Community Services Manager, City of San Mateo Parks and Recreation
 
Membership Application
To join the AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities
and the World Health Organization Global Network of Age-Friendly Cities and Communities

If you have questions while completing this form, please email livable@aarp.org

If you need additional space for answering the questions you may add an additional sheet of paper
Section 1: COMMUNITY DETAILS
APPLICATION SUBMISSION DATE: To Be Determined
NAME OF THE COMMUNITY: City of San Mateo, CA
STATE: California
POPULATION SIZE: 104,983
PERCENTAGE OF RESIDENTS ABOVE THE AGE OF 60: 17%
NAME AND TITLE OF THE ELECTED OFFICIAL SIGNING THE OFFICIAL COMMITMENT: Mayor Joe Goethals
OFFICE ADDRESS OF THE SIGNER: 330 West 20th Ave, San Mateo, CA  94403
jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org; (650) 522-7522 ext. 6264
Section 2: COMMUNITY CONTACT for the AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities

The community contact is the local staff member or volunteer who is primarily responsible for carrying out the 
community-level work — it is not the responsible AARP staff member.
NAME: Bob Palacio
POSITION: Community Services Manager, City of San Mateo
EMAIL ADDRESS: bpalacio@cityofsanmateo.org
TELEPHONE NUMBER: (650) 522-7400
Please describe the named person’s role in the city or community’s age-friendly initiative:
The person named above agrees to be subscribed to the AARP Livable Communities Weekly e-Newsletter, which is one of 
the primary ways we share useful news and resources. To add additional subscribers, type their names and email addresses 
into below. Once this application is processed, a subscription confirmation message will be sent so the individual can 
confirm that they want to subscribe. To subscribe today, follow the link above or visit AARP.org/Livable-Subscribe.
Sheila Canzian, scanzian@cityofsanmateo.org 
Linda Burroughs, kendrixburroughs@icloud.com
Vince Siminitus, simin@pacbell.net
Monika Lee, monikapleyer@gmail.com
Winnie Yu, winniey@selfhelpelderly.org
Shawne O’Connell, soconnell@kimochi-inc.org
Wes Taoka, sanmateojacc@gmail.com
Amber Shong, alshong@cityofsanmateo.org
Carolyn Shavel, shavel@cityofsanmateo.org 
NOTE: The application continues on the next page.
20 of 163

--- page 21 ---
011019
Membership Application: AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities – Page 2
The City of San Mateo California is committed to providing services and programs for older and disabled adults as 
well as collaborating with local and regional non-profit, public and for-profit organizations and businesses that can 
maintain and enhance the quality of older adults’ lives, reduce their isolation, and promote their socialization. The 
City’s services for older adults are managed by the City’s Parks and Recreation Department.  Services are provided at 
the San Mateo Senior Center, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Recreation Center, Beresford Recreation Center, and in 
partnership with Self-Help for the Elderly at the Central Park Center. The San Mateo Senior Center offers a nutritious 
hot lunch program every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Tuesday’s and Thursday’s hot lunch is served at the 
Dr.MLK Jr. Community Center.  In addition to meals, the Senior Center hosts a vibrant mix of activities. On any given 
day at the Senior Center, there can be a dozen things happening from yoga classes to a history seminar, from bingo 
to billiards or mahjong. The Parks & Recreation Department offers residents age 60 plus a safe and affordable means 
of transportation. With the Get Around! Senior Rides Program, participants can schedule their rides in advance or on-
demand, 24 hours a day/7 days a week.  Cost is $5.00 each way or $2.00 if eligible for the City’s recreation fee 
assistance program.  The city’s Recreation Fee Assistance program is for participants of the City’s Park and Recreation 
Programs who are living on low-incomes that meet income eligibility requirements. This assistance is available to 
discount the daily lunch fee or many of the hundreds of classes and programs offered by the department. The senior 
center staff, in collaboration with a variety of local agencies, offers a variety of other services, including the health 
insurance counseling and advocacy program (HICAP), shopping assistance for Seniors who are Homebound (SASH), 
assistance with using NCOA’s web-based Benefits Check-Up program, a Latino Support Group and staff who can 
assist with identifying needed services available from the local field-of-aging network.   
The City of San Mateo is also one of the few cities in the Bay Area that has an Advisory Senior Commission to the City 
Council. The Parks and Recreation Department works closely with the senior commission as they provide valuable 
feedback on senior programs, projects, and initiatives. The Senior Commission is made up of 5 City of San Mateo 
residents selected by the city council. 
In the winter of 2020, San Mateo launched an Age Friendly Community initiative by recruiting a diverse task force of 
local residents with a strong commitment to improving the lives of San Mateo’s older adult residents.  This group is 
comprised of Linda Burroughs, Task Force Chair and the Executive Director of Mid-Peninsula Villages; Sheila Canzian, 
City Parks and Recreation Director; Bob Palacio, City Parks and Recreation Supervisor; Vince Siminitus, long-time City 
advocate; Monika Lee, member of the County of San Mateo Commission on Aging; Wes Taoka, Executive Director, 
Japanese-American Community Center; Winnie Yu, Program Manager for Self Help for the Elderly, Inc.; Brenda 
Brown, Project Director of the local SCSEP (Employment) Program at Peninsula Family Service and Shawne O’Connell, 
Program Manager at Kimochi, Inc. 
After the City of San Mateo Age Friendly Community (AFC) Task Force formed in January 2020, they recruited over 
50 diverse local older adult residents to participate in five focus groups. Each participant provided input on what 
they thought were unmet needs in each of the 8 domains of age friendly communities.  The first focus group was 
comprised of older adults age 71 plus, the second focus group was comprised of persons age 55-70, the third focus 
group consisted of Latinx seniors, the fourth focus group consisted of Asian seniors and the fifth and final focus 
group was comprised of service providers from local non-profit and public agencies.  The City of San Mateo AFC Task 
Force used this important grassroots feedback as a basis for choosing four inaugural age friendly projects. (See 
below in Section #3 for details.)  
Section 3: COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES, ENGAGEMENTS and COLLABORATIONS
1) Please provide a brief summary of the community policies, programs and services that are targeted toward 
older people and how the community plans to become more age-friendly.
2) How will the community engage and involve older people in the process of becoming a more age-friendly?
21 of 163

--- page 22 ---
011019
Membership Application: AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities – Page 3
3) Briefly describe the mechanisms the community has or is planning to put in place to facilitate collaborative 
planning and implementation between different agencies and departments. 
The City of San Mateo’s Age Friendly Community initiative was launched with the assistance and guidance of the Center for 
Age-Friendly Excellence (CAFÉ), a project of the non-profit Los Altos Community Foundation.  Through a contract with the San 
Mateo County Department of Aging and Adult Services, CAFÉ is assisting the City of San Mateo as well as Foster City and 
Colma this year to initiate and develop AFC initiatives rooted in a thoughtful planning and implementation process.  
After reviewing feedback gathered from virtual focus group discussions and one-on-one telephone surveys with local 
residents about unmet needs of older adults that relate to the eight domains of age-friendly communities in addition to Task 
Force discussions, the three age-friendly domains that emerged as areas most in need of attention were Transportation, 
Communication-Information, Respect and Social Inclusion.  
Primarily as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, Task Force members and City staff plan to develop and implement 
projects that address these three domains in two phases.  During the pandemic, two “Phase 1” projects have been chosen 
that can be accomplished while the pandemic continues.  Two additional “Phase 2” projects will be explored but not 
developed and implemented until the pandemic is brought under better control and the City and Task Force have the 
experience of developing and implementing the Phase 1 projects in collaboration with community partners.   
PHASE 1 PROJECTS
Project 1: Safe Walking Routes for Seniors – and Everybody!

Main Domains Addressed – Transportation and Outdoor Spaces and Buildings

Other Domains Impacted – Social Participation and Civic Engagement

Unmet Need Addressed – During many of the focus group discussions and one-on-one interviews, concerns 
were expressed regarding sidewalk conditions in some areas of the city.  Cracked and raised sidewalks 
create trip hazards for seniors and people with walkers or wheelchairs. Additional concerns were  
inadequate time to cross intersections, insufficient flashing signals at key locations and lack of enforcement 
of violations of pedestrian rights of way.  All of these issues contribute to deterring seniors from walking for 
business needs, exercise and socialization.

Project Duration – This is both short and long term. The first year will be devoted to identifying the highest 
priority pedestrian safety risks for the largest concentrations of seniors in the city, followed by the move to 
address them within the City’s resources. Beyond that, this project enhances the City’s currently existing 
“Safe Sidewalks” Program and other City programs by integrating into the annual planning and budgeting 
process a senior-focused prioritization of repairs and safety enhancements.

Primary Focus: Identify the specific highest-value walking routes for the largest concentrations of seniors 
and the hazardous conditions on them. Repair hazardous sidewalks on those routes ahead of their normal 
repair schedule and critically evaluate needs for signal timing changes, flashing lights, new signage and 
targeted enforcement or educational efforts on those same routes where warranted, reducing risks and 
encouraging more walking.   
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY: Safe Walking Routes for Seniors – and Everybody!
The “Safe Walking Routes for Seniors – and Everybody!” project would accelerate the repair of sidewalks that 
represent tripping and falling hazards for seniors caused by sidewalks that are lifted, cracked, blocked, or 
otherwise damaged. Pedestrian safety concerns came up frequently in age-friendly focus groups and interviews, 
primarily under the Transportation and Outdoor Spaces and Buildings domains. As designed, it also addresses 
social participation and civic participation gaps because seniors often walk with a partner for business or 
pleasure and provides opportunities for volunteer participation and leadership. The current state of our 
22 of 163

--- page 23 ---
011019
Membership Application: AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities – Page 4
sidewalks is not only a community-wide safety hazard - it is a deterrent to walking by residents of all ages, not 
just seniors.  The project also incorporates addressing other pedestrian safety issues as described below.  
This project initially involves identifying and mapping major walking routes from high concentrations of senior 
housing to targeted destinations frequented by seniors, such as nearby shopping districts, health care facilities, 
senior centers, libraries, places of worship, government offices, etc.  Volunteers recruited from existing 
volunteer-centric groups such as Neighborhood Watch, Homeowner Associations, Senior Centers, YMCA/fitness 
centers, etc. will walk these routes (ideally with local seniors), document, photograph, categorize and prioritize 
hazardous conditions and exact locations for the city per a predefined protocol.  Data can be input directly into 
a newly developed app or captured on a paper form for later input into an existing or new database or 
spreadsheet.  For sidewalks, the data would also include descriptive categories such as damage type (lifting, 
e.g.), cause (tree roots, e.g.) and risk level extent (“not usable without extreme care”, e.g.).  Where traffic lights 
exist along these same routes, timing can be documented and visibility and other risk conditions, such as 
inadequate lighting, noted for follow-up evaluation. 
This system could generate priorities based on pre-established criteria. Results would be integrated into the 
city’s existing Sidewalk Repair Program, which currently addresses repair needs on a rotating 15-year cycle 
through its neighborhoods. This project accelerates these highest-risk conditions to be fixed outside that 
schedule, something already allowed by the program. City costs would be controllable due to use of volunteers 
to do the large majority of the up-front mapping, identification and prioritization work and the fact that many 
of the prioritized sidewalk repairs are the property owner’s financial responsibility. The city would use its 
existing Public Works infrastructure and processes to notify owners responsible and enforce repairs. Where 
responsibility is the City’s or shared, it would allocate available funds to address the highest priority conditions, 
either as a stand-alone project or by integrating it into cycled neighborhood-wide bids.  Measurement of 
progress is as straightforward as reporting the number of specifically identified conditions corrected outside the 
normal neighborhood cycle on an annual basis.  For other safety-related hazardous conditions or opportunities 
for enhancement can be similarly reported to the responsible Public Works or other city department.  Ideally 
coordination across departments would include addressing ALL identified conditions on a specific route, yielding 
a completely “Safe Senior Route”.  
   
This project will be informed by reviewing similar age friendly projects in other communities and will, of course, 
be implemented through collaboration with City Staff, CalTrans, local property owners and a dedicated and 
properly trained cadre of volunteers.
Project 2: Coordination of Communication about local/regional Senior Services and Events

Main Domains Addressed – Community and Health Services

Other Domains Impacted – Social Participation, Respect and Social Inclusion, and Civic Engagement and 
Employment.

Unmet Need Addressed – San Mateo and the surrounding communities provide a great number of services that 
may be of interest to seniors but the providers of these services do not communicate well with each other and the 
potential users of these services have a difficult time learning about them and using them. 

Project Duration – Two years to test various strategies with community partners.  The most successful efforts will 
continue after that point.  

Primary Focus: This project intends to increase access by older adults and their family members/friends to 
information about non-profits, community groups or faith-based organizations that provide services to seniors.  In 
addition, it will develop strategies to organize the dissemination of information in ways that have not been attempted 
before in this community.  Lastly, a priority will be to encourage coordination among various providers of services and 
23 of 163

--- page 24 ---
011019
Membership Application: AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities – Page 5
activities for San Mateo’s older adult residents.  
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY: Coordination of Communication about local/regional Senior Services and Events 
Non-profit, public and for-profit organizations and businesses based in San Mateo and the surrounding 
communities provide a great number of services that may be of interest to seniors, but the potential users of 
these services have a difficult time learning about them and using them.  In addition, service providers often 
don’t communicate with one another, thus missing opportunities for reciprocal referrals and collaboration.  This 
issue was highlighted frequently in age-friendly focus groups and interviews, primarily under the 
Communication and Information and Community Support and Health Services domains. It also touches on many 
of the other domains as well because communication and information about them is also widely needed based 
on the input from focus group and one-on-one interview participants. 
The City’s Age Friendly Community Task Force and their collaborative partners will establish a program that: (1) 
assembles existing information about organizations and services;, (2) organizes a newsletter, periodic meetings, 
or other interaction among the organizations to exchange information, experiences, and explore ways to 
collaborate;, (3) encourages and assists the organizations in reaching out to older adult residents with 
information about available services, and; (4) utilizes best practice strategies of promoting services for older 
adult residents of San Mateo that include all forms of media and methods that have been successfully used by 
similar projects undertaken by other age-friendly communities.
This project will be informed by best practice research of similar efforts by other aging service networks and age 
friendly communities.  It will be implemented through a collaboration that will focus on bringing together non-
profit senior service programs/organizations, the County Department of Aging Services, City Staff, City of San 
Mateo Senior Citizens’ Commission, the SM County Commission on Aging as well as other partners, as needed, 
such as the Chamber of Commerce, local businesses and other community organizations. 
PHASE 2 PROJECTS UNDER CONSIDERATION AFTER PHASE 1 PROJECTS ARE 
UNDERWAY
PROJECT IDEA TO EXPLORE FURTHER FOR PHASE TWO: Intergenerational Program(s)

Main Domains Addressed – Respect and Social Inclusion

Other Domains Impacted – Social Participation, Civic Engagement and Employment, and Communication 
and Information.

Unmet Need Addressed – The desire for positive, meaningful and constructive Intergenerational connection 
between seniors and young people in the community was apparent during many of the virtual focus group 
and one-on-one phone survey discussions.  

Project Duration – This project will be considered for development and implementation after the first two 
“Phase 1” projects are underway and after the pandemic has abated to a point where it will be safer to 
bring older adults and young people together in person.  During Phase 1, the City and Task Force will do a 
community scan to learn about existing intergenerational programs in San Mateo and nearby communities 
and best practices from similar projects developed by other age-friendly communities. 

Primary Focus – The City of San Mateo and the Task Force is aware that there are a variety of worthwhile 
approaches to create positive, meaningful and constructive opportunities for intergenerational connections.  
Best practice program ideas will be reviewed as a way to learn from other age friendly cities that have 
chosen to develop similar projects in this area.  In addition, we will identify existing successful 
intergenerational programs that already exist in our city and nearby communities. An organic and revenue 
24 of 163

--- page 25 ---
011019
Membership Application: AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities – Page 6
neutral way to begin an “age-friendly effort with regards to intergenerational (IG) connectedness would be 
to include existing IG programs as partners and collaborators in our Phase 1 Project: “Coordination of 
Communication about Local/Regional Senior Services and Events” as a way to encourage our older adult 
residents to participate in them and to increase intergenerational activities in the City of San Mateo as well 
as other nearby cities.  
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY: Intergenerational Programs
As a “Phase 2” project, a final decision will be made on whether or not to proceed on developing a new 
intergenerational (IG) program when the pandemic is more under control and older adults are less at risk of 
becoming infected with the Covid-19 virus.  In addition, the City and Task Force wants to assess what is required 
to get the two “Phase 1” projects developed and implemented in collaboration with local stake holders before 
embarking on any further projects as a way to ensure they are provided with adequate support.  With that said, 
existing intergenerational programs in San Mateo and nearby communities will be included in the “Phase 1” 
project that will focus on “Coordination of Communication about Local/Regional Senior Services and Events.”  In 
that scenario, the goal would be to increase the number of older adult and younger residents of San Mateo 
involved with local intergenerational programs.  In addition, when time permits during Phase 1, the City and 
Task Force will explore promising ideas and projects in the field of intergenerational programs for later 
consideration by inviting experts in the field to meet with them and by reviewing descriptions of successful IG 
programs.   
PROJECT IDEA TO EXPLORE FURTHER FOR PHASE TWO: AGE FRIENDLY BUSINESS 
RECOGNITION/CERTIFICATION

Main Domains Addressed –Respect and Social Inclusion, Civic Participation and Employment

Other Domains Impacted - Community and Health Support

Unmet Need Addressed – Seniors don’t know where to go or who they can rely on for various personal, 
business and social needs.

Project Duration – This project will be considered for development and implementation after the first two 
“Phase 1” projects are underway and after the pandemic has abated to a point where local businesses and 
organizations will be fully operational.  During phase 1, the City and Task Force will review similar projects 
developed by other age-friendly communities.   

Primary Focus: Implement an “Age-friendly Business” certification program in partnership with the City’s 
Chamber of Commerce. Seniors will preferentially frequent such businesses because the physical 
environment, positive personnel interactions and incentives provided assure a high level of respectful 
engagement and service.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY: Age Friendly Business Recognition/Certification
As a “Phase 2” project, a final decision will not be made on whether or not to proceed on developing this 
project until the pandemic is under control and most businesses and organizations can return to full operation.  
In addition, the City and Task Force wants to assess what is required to get the two “Phase 1” projects 
developed and implemented in collaboration with local stake holders before beginning any other projects as a 
way to ensure they are provided with adequate support.  When time permits during Phase 1, the City and Task 
Force will explore similar projects by other age-friendly communities and invite their project leaders to meet 
with the Task Force so they can learn how other communities have gone about doing this.
25 of 163

--- page 26 ---
011019
Membership Application: AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities – Page 7
The City of San Mateo and the San Mateo AFC Task Force is very interested in contributing to and learning
 from other AFC member communities that is part of this rapidly growing movement around the United
 States and world.  As with most other communities, the City of San Mateo’s older adult population will 
continue to grow beyond its current level of 17%.  The City believes that a collaborative and asset based
 community development (ABCD) approach that engages community members of all ages, 
businesses, organizations and our region’s field of aging network in partnership with our city to look at 
ways to create a more livable community for all of our residents including those over 60 is absolutely 
essential.  Not only does it take a Village to raise a child, it also takes a village to support the elders who 
live among us in ways that provide a variety of opportunities to experience a good old age.
The City of San Mateo and their AFC Task Force understands that the expected steady increase in the 
number of older adult residents beyond the current level of 17% requires us to do our part in exploring 
and implementing new and cost-effective ways to create a milieu that enables them to thrive and not only 
“age-in-place” but, more importantly, to “age-in-community.”  We are grateful for this opportunity to join, 
learn from and contribute to a like-minded network of age-friendly States and Communities that share 
these same goals.  
Section 4: NETWORK MEMBERSHIP

Your answers to the following questions will help us complete your membership in the global age-friendly network and 
better enable us to understand how to support the network.
4) How do you hope to contribute to the AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities and the 
World Health Organization Global Network of Age-Friendly Communities?
5) What motivated your community to join the AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities and 
the World Health Organization Global Network of Age-Friendly Communities?
6) Provide a digital file or link of a logo or other image that represents your community and for which you 
have reprint rights. The image resolution should be at least 72 dpi. As an example of an image, here's ours:
      
 
26 of 163

--- page 27 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3535
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
September 21, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Street Rehabilitation Package 1-C – Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the agreement with WRECO Inc. for professional design services in the amount of $43,260 
for a new agreement total of $339,828; and increase the contingency reserve to $30,000. 
BACKGROUND:
On November 4, 2019, City Council approved a professional services agreement with WRECO Inc. for the Street 
Rehabilitation Package 1-C project in the amount of $268,600, established a contingency reserve of $30,000, and 
authorized the Public Works Director to approve amendments within the contingency reserve.
On January 29, 2020, the Public Works Director executed Amendment No. 1 in the amount of $27,968 to cover additional 
work associated with additional soil sampling and developing service life treatment options. This amendment was paid by 
the contingency reserve, leaving the remaining contingency balance of $2,032. After the execution of Amendment No. 1, 
staff identified additional survey work and soil sampling that is necessary to complete the design. WRECO agrees to 
perform these additional tasks in the amount of $43,260. Approval of Amendment No. 2, increases the new agreement 
amount to $339,828.The project is currently at 50% design completion and staff recommends approving Amendment No. 
2 and an increase in contingency reserve to $30,000 to cover potential additional work. The table below outlines the 
contract changes.
Item
Contract Amount
Contingency
Original Contract
$268,600
$30,000
Amendment #1
$296,568
$2,032
Amendment #2
$339,828
$30,000
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the Street Rehabilitation Package 1-C (467001) for this amendment and to fund the 
additional contingency.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
27 of 163

--- page 28 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Amendment
STAFF CONTACT
Elton Yee, Associate Engineer
eyee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7320
Mario Ung, Senior Engineer
mung@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7315
28 of 163

--- page 29 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 1 of 2 
Rev 9/17 
AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO THE AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND 
WRECO, INC. FOR 
DESIGN SERVICES FOR THE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE 1-C 
($296,568 [Original Amount] $43,260 [added amount]) 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
WRECO, Inc. (“Consultant”), entered into an Agreement for Professional Consultant Services 
(“Agreement”) on November 29, 2019; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, City and Consultant wish to amend the Agreement effective ___________________ 
to add scope and increase compensation of this Agreement. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows: 
 
 
1. 
Section 1 – Scope of Services of the Agreement is amended to include “Exhibit 1.”  
 
 
Exhibit 1 is attached and incorporated for reference.  
 
2.  
Section 4 – Term of the Agreement is amended to read: 
 
“The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on the issuance of 
notice to proceed and be completed on or about seventeen (17) months after the 
issuance of notice to proceed.” 
 
3.  
Section 5 – Payment of the Agreement is amended to read: 
 
“…CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee, on a time and expenses reimbursement basis, 
in an amount not to exceed $339,828, pursuant to the rates stated in Exhibit B of this 
Agreement…” 
 
 
4. 
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
 
 
29 of 163

--- page 30 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 2 of 2 
Rev 9/17 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and WRECO, INC. have executed this Agreement on 
___________________. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Brad B. Underwood 
Public Works Director 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Han Bin Liang 
Its Authorized Agent 
President 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) 
Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below. 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
Shawn Mason  
City Attorney 
 
 
Name________________________________ 
Title_________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30 of 163

--- page 31 ---
EXHIBIT 1 
 
ADDITIONAL SCOPE OF WORK: 
 
Pedestrian Improvements Design 
The additional scope items associated with these tasks are as follows: 
 
Task A2.1 – Pavement Core Sampling 
The WRECO Team will take roadway drilling samples to a depth of up to 5 feet to determine the existing pavement 
depths and subsurface conditions for the following streets: 
 
• 
5th Avenue (3 boring samples) 
Pavement boring sampling will require traffic control and is included in the cost of this amendment. Selected 
samples will be submitted for laboratory testing shall include R-value, gradation, and Atterberg Limit testing. 
Selection of tests will be based on the soil/materials recovered during drilling.  
Deliverables 
• 
Existing Street Pavement Data 
Task A2.2 – Supplement Topographical Survey 
The WRECO Team will perform additional field survey, taking survey data points at the top of curb, flow line, lip of 
gutter, and back of sidewalk at each curb ramp location for the following intersections anticipating curb ramp 
improvements and roads that require full topographical surveys which includes cross sections taken every 25’: 
 
• 
Nash Drive @ Cottage Grove Ave & Vine Court – (6 curb ramp locations) 
• 
Ottawa Street @ York Ave – (2 curb ramp locations) 
• 
Roberta Drive – Hamlet St. & South Norfolk St – (25’ X-sect) 
• 
2nd Avenue – Norfolk to Quebec – (25’ X-sects) 
• 
19th Avenue – Sta 0+50 to 10+55 – (25’ X-sects) 
 
The topographic survey will also include the locations of surface visible utilities (including dips of inlets and 
manholes), utility boxes, vaults, lights, signs, fire hydrants, trees and their drip lines, and existing driveways in the 
vicinity of the curb ramps. 
The survey control will be based on the California State Plane Coordinate System, North American Datum of 1983 
(NAD 83). The vertical control will be based on the City’s vertical datum. Topographic mapping will be created from 
the survey data and will be used as the base map for the design plans. 
Deliverables  
• 
Survey Topo Base file (Autocad) 
The attached spreadsheet contains our fee estimate to complete the additional work.   
31 of 163

--- page 32 ---
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE 1‐C PROJECT ‐ AMENDMENT #2
City of San Mateo
Work‐Hour and Fee Estimate for WRECO Tasks
Prepared by WRECO
Date: 7/22/2020
Senior 
Engineer
Associate
Engineer
Staff Engineer
Principal 
Surveyor
Land Surveyor
2‐Man Field 
Crew
Billing Rates
185
$        
124
$       
98
$          
Hours
Labor Cost
ODC
Fee
150
$       
125
$        
210
$        
Hours
Fee
Hours
Fee
A2
Amendment #1
A2.1
Pavement Boring Samples
16
4
30
50
6,396
$           
10,000
$     
16,396
$         
0
‐
$                 
50
16,396
$            
A2.2
Supplemental Topographical Survey
8
24
40
72
8,364
$           
100
$           
8,464
$            
4
8
80
92
18,400
$          
164
26,864
$            
 
 
Subtotal 
24
28
70
122
14,760
$         
10,100
$     
24,860
$         
4
8
80
92
18,400
$          
214
43,260
$            
TOTAL 
24
28
70
122
14,760
$      
10,100
$   
24,860
$      
4
8
80
92
18,400
$       
214
43,260
$   
* ODC: includes pavement boring work and traffic control 
TEAM TOTAL
TASK
DESCRIPTION
WRECO
Alexander & Associates, Inc. (A&A)
TOTALS BY TASK
TOTALS BY TASK
&nbsp;
32 of&nbsp;163

--- page 33 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3544
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
September 21, 2020 
SUBJECT:
28th Avenue Bicycle Boulevard Project – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Award an agreement to Golden Bay Construction, Inc. for construction of the 28th Avenue Bicycle Boulevard project in the 
amount of $454,375; establish a contingency reserve of $45,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the 
agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The 28th Avenue Bicycle Boulevard was included in the Bike Master Plan 2020 and will be the first bicycle boulevard 
installed in the City of San Mateo (City). The project will establish an east-west connection on 28th Avenue between Mason 
Lane west of Alameda de las Pulgas to El Camino Real, where it will connect to the newly relocated Hillsdale Caltrain 
Station. The project includes curb extensions, speed cushions, a speed table (raised crosswalk), high-visibility crosswalks, 
bicycle boulevard roadway markings, and wayfinding signage throughout the corridor. 
The City entered into a funding agreement with the San Mateo County Transportation Authority for Measure A Pedestrian 
and Bicycle Program grant funds for the 28th Avenue Bike Boulevard Implementation project on December 4, 2018. The 
grant amount was for $380,000 with $310,000 in matching funds for a total cost of $690,000 for design and construction 
of the project. Approximately $100,000 has been spent to date on the project design, leaving $590,000 for construction. 
Staff budgeted approximately 15% of the construction contract amount for construction management and 10% for the 
contingency reserve, leaving approximately $472,000 for the total construction contract budget.
The City issued a Notice to Bidders for the project on July 30, 2020. The bid schedule included the Base Bid plus Bid 
Additive Nos. 1 and 2. The Base Bid includes curb extensions at Garfield Street, as well as the improvements listed above. 
Bid Additive No. 1 includes curb extensions and landscape improvements at Hacienda Street. Bid Additive No. 2 includes 
curb extensions and landscape improvements at Alameda de las Pulgas. A total of four bids were received on August 20, 
2020 with grand totals (Base Bid plus Bid Additive Nos. 1 and 2) as follows:
Contractor
Base Bid
Additive No. 1
Additive No. 2
Grand Total
Golden Bay Construction Inc.
$316,118.50
$138,256.50
$123,305.00
$577,680.00
RK Engineering, Inc.
$304,665.00
$151,364.00
$166,220.00
$622,249.00
JJR Construction
$307,473.00
$190,679.00
$201,237.25
$699,389.25
Sposeto Engineering
$347,604.00
$223,970.25
$183,760.50
$755,334.75
The engineer’s estimate for the project including the Base Bid plus Bid Additive Nos. 1 and 2 was $605,535.65. Staff 
reviewed the bids and determined that Golden Bay Construction, Inc. is the lowest responsive, responsible bidder based 
on the requirements outlined in the Contract Book and recommends award of the agreement for the Base Bid plus Bid 
33 of 163

--- page 34 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Additive No. 1 for a total contract amount of $454,375.00. This selection will provide sufficient funding for the 
construction contract, the contingency reserve, and construction management costs within the existing project budget. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the 28th Avenue Bike Boulevard Project Account No. 465510 for this agreement. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15301(c), this bicycle boulevard project is categorically exempt from CEQA it is 
a bicycle improvement project that will not create additional automobile lanes.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Bethany Lopez, Senior Engineer
blopez@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7313
34 of 163

--- page 35 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 0114E44B-6CA7-4D2D-81EF-76C6981 88403

AGREEMENT WITH GOLDEN BAY CONSTRUCTION, INC.
FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT
FOR
28™ AVENUE BICYCLE BOULEVARD
CITY PROJECT NO. 465510

THIS AGREEMENT FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS (“Agreement”), made and entered into in the
City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, by and between the CITY OF SAN
MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, (hereinafter called
"City") and GOLDEN BAY CONSTRUCTION, INC., a CORPORATION, with offices at 3826 DEPOT ROAD,
HAYWARD, CA 94545 (hereinafter called "Contractor"), entered into this day of

RECITALS:

(a) City has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize construction of the public work and
improvements or other matters herein provided, and execution of this Agreement.

(b) A notice was duly published for bids for the contract for the improvement hereinafter
described.

(c) After notice duly given, on the date hereof, the City awarded the contract for the
construction of the improvements hereinafter described to Contractor.

IT IS AGREED, as follows:

1. Scope of Work. City is awarding the Base Bid and Bid Additive No. 1 as described in the Contract
Book:

28" AVENUE BICYCLE BOULEVARD PROJECT

CITY PROJECT NO. 465510

2. Contract Price. City shall pay, and the Contractor shall accept, the sum of four hundred fifty-four
thousand, three hundred seventy-five dollars ($454,375.00) in full payment for the work set forth
above.

Said price is determined by the prices contained in Contractor's bid, and shall be paid as described
in the Contract Book. In the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a
reduction of those set forth in Contractor's bid and the specifications herein, such work and
materials will be paid for as described in the Contract Book.

Construction Contract Page 1 of 9
Rev 05/20

35 of 163


--- page 36 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 0114E44B-6CA7-4D2D-81EF-76C6981 88403

6.

The Contract Documents. The complete contract consists of the following documents: this
Agreement; the Notice Inviting Sealed Proposals; the Accepted Proposal; the Contract Book which
includes the Special Provisions and Contract Drawings, Addendum Number 1, Number 2, and
Number 3 issued to the Contract Book, the State of California Department of Transportation
Standard Specifications and Plans, 2018 Edition, the Faithful Performance Bond, and the Labor and
Material Bond (hereinafter referred to as the “contract documents”).

All rights and obligations of City and Contractor are fully set forth and described in the contract
documents. The contract documents constitute the entire contract between the parties hereto
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, fully supersede any and all prior understandings,
representations, warranties and agreements between the parties hereto, or any of them,
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and may be modified only by written agreement signed
by all of the parties hereto.

All of the above-named documents are complementary and are intended to operate in harmony, so
that any work called for in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the
same as if mentioned in all said documents. In the event of any variation or discrepancy between any
portion of this Agreement and any portion of the contract documents, this Agreement shall prevail.
The precedence of the remaining contract documents will be as specified in the Contract Book.

Schedule. All work shall be performed in accordance with the schedule provided pursuant to the
Contract Book.

Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, City shall
immediately give written notice thereof to Contractor and Contractor's sureties, and the sureties
shall have the right to take over and perform the Agreement, provided, however, that if the sureties,
within 5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give City written notice of their
intention to take over the performance thereof within 5 days after notice to City of such election, City
may take over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it
may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of Contractor, and the sureties shall be
liable to City for any excess cost or damages occasioned City thereby; and, in such event, City may,
without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing the work, such materials,
appliances, plant and other property belonging to Contractor as may be on the site of the work and
necessary therefor.

Legal Work Day - Penalties for Violation. Eight hours of labor shall constitute a legal day's work.
Contractor shall not require more than 8 hours labor in a day and 40 hours in a calendar week
from any person employed by Contractor in the performance of such work unless such excess
work is compensated for at not less than 1-1/2 times the basic rate of pay. Contractor shall forfeit
as a penalty to City the sum of $25.00 for each laborer, workman or mechanic employed in the
execution of this contract by Contractor, or by any subcontractor for each calendar day during
which such laborer, workman or mechanic is required or permitted to labor more than 8 hours in

Construction Contract Page 2 of 9
Rev 05/20

36 of 163


--- page 37 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 0114E44B-6CA7-4D2D-81EF-76C6981 88403

re

8.

10.

11.

any calendar day and 40 hours in any one calendar week in violation of the provisions of Sections
1810 and 1816, inclusive, of the Labor Code of the State of California.

Prevailing Wage Scale. The prevailing wage scale as determined by the Director of Industrial Relations
of the State of California, in force on the day the bid was announced, will be the minimum paid to all
craftsmen and laborers working on this project. Contractor shall also require any subcontractors who
work or provide any services related to the project to pay all persons performing labor or rendering
service under said subcontract or other arrangement at least the general prevailing rate of wages,
determined as set forth herein for the respective crafts and employments, including such wages for
holiday and overtime work. A copy of the correct determination will be posted at the job site. It is
understood that it is the responsibility of Contractor to determine the correct scale. Copies of the
prevailing wage rates are on file at the City Clerk's office, however, errors or defects in the materials
in the City Clerk's office will not excuse a bidder's failure to comply with the actual scale then in force.
Contractor must submit certified payrolls to the Department of Industrial Relations in accordance
with Labor Code Section 1776.

Contractor agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal
Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price
Index escalator.

Senate Bill 854 Compliance Required. In accordance with Labor Code Sections 1725.5 and 1771.1,
all contractors and subcontractors must be registered with the Department of Industrial Relations.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1771.4 the contractor must post job site notices as
required by regulation and this project will be subject to compliance monitoring and enforcement
by the Department of Industrial Relations.

Insurance. The Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and five years
thereafter the insurance as specified in Exhibit A of this agreement.

Hold Harmless and Indemnity Provision. Contractor agrees to hold harmless, defend, and
indemnify the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against
any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising from performance of this
Agreement, including claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense caused or claimed to be caused
by passive negligence of the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents;
provided, however that this provision does not apply to claims, loss, liability, damage or expense
arising from (a) the sole negligence or willful misconduct of the City or (b) the active negligence of
the City; further provided, that this provision shall not affect the validity of any insurance contract,
workers’ compensation or other agreement issued by an admitted insurer as defined by the
Insurance Code. Contractor will defend City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials,
employees, and agents, against any such claims.

Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5,000 shall be recoverable as costs
(that is, by the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the

Construction Contract Page 3 of 9
Rev 05/20

37 of 163


--- page 38 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 0114E44B-6CA7-4D2D-81EF-76C6981 88403

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

provisions of the contract documents. The above $5,000 limit is the total of attorney fees
recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number
of attorneys, trials, appeals or actions. It is the intent that neither party to this Agreement shall have
to pay the other more than $5,000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions, to enforce
the provisions of the contract documents. The parties expect and hope there will be no litigation and
that any differences will be resolved amicably.

Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be
submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties
shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association,
the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The
mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.

The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed the
prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.

Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition to and not
in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to City.

Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified mail,
postage prepaid.

a. Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed as follows:

Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo

330 West 20" Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

Notices required to be given to Contractor shall be addressed as appears in the signature
block as shown on the Bidder's Statement.

Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes the
plural and vice versa.

Governing Law and Venue. This Agreement, the contract documents, and the performance hereon

shall be governed, interpreted, construed, and regulated by the laws of the State of California. The
parties agree that any action related to this Agreement or the contract documents will be venued

in the County of San Mateo.

Construction Contract Page 4 of 9
Rev 05/20

38 of 163


--- page 39 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 0114E44B-6CA7-4D2D-81EF-76C6981 88403

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

Headings. The title and headings of the various sections of this Agreement and the contract
documents are intended solely for convenience of reference and are not intended to explain,
modify, or place any construction on any provisions.

No Partnership or Agency. Nothing in this Agreement nor the contract documents shall be deemed
to constitute a partnership in law between City and Contractor, or any sub-contractor, to
constitute either party as an agent of the other for any purpose; or to entitle either party to
commit or bind the other in any manner unless expressly agreed upon in the contract documents.

Severability. If any part or provision of the contract documents is determined by any court to be
illegal, invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the contract documents shall continue to be
valid as to its other provisions and the remainder of the affected provision, unless it can be
concluded from the circumstances that, in the absence of the provisions found to be null and void,
the parties would not have entered into the contract documents. The parties shall use all
reasonable efforts to replace any and all provisions or parts found to be null and void with
provisions that are valid under the applicable law and come closest to their original intention.

Waiver. None of the following shall operate as a waiver of any provision of the contract documents,
or of any power herein reserved by the City, or any right to damages herein provided: 1) inspection
by the City or its authorized agents or representatives; 2) any order or certificate for payment, or any
payment for, or acceptance of the whole or any part of the work by the City; 3) an extension of time;
or 4) any position taken by the City or its authorized agents or representatives.

Warranty. Contractor warrants and guarantees that the materials and equipment provided shall be
at least of the quality specified and new unless otherwise required or permitted by the contract
documents, and, if no quality is specified, then the materials and equipment shall be of commercial
grade, suitable for heavy public use in facilities of similar size and complexity, that the work
performed hereunder will be free from defects, and that the work will conform to the requirements
of the contract documents.

[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]

Construction Contract Page 5 of 9
Rev 05/20

39 of 163


--- page 40 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 0114E44B-6CA7-4D2D-81EF-76C6981 88403

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement between the CITY OF SAN MATEO and GOLDEN BAY
CONSTRUCTION, INC. has been duly executed by the parties hereinabove named, as of the day and
year first above written.

CITY OF SAN MATEO CONTRACTOR
DocuSigned by:
[lana Bourtte
F420BE6A2D52439...
Brad B. Underwood Johnny Zanette
Public Works Director Its Authorized Agent
President

If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2)
Vice President plus an additional corporate
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign
below.

APPROVED AS TO FORM

Shawn Mason
City Attorney

Attachments:
Exhibit A: Insurance Requirements

Construction Contract Page 6 of 9
Rev 05/20

40 of 163


--- page 41 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 0114E44B-6CA7-4D2D-81EF-76C6981 88403

Exhibit A
Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts

Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract, and for x years thereafter,
insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise from or in
connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the Contractor, his agents,
representatives, employees, or subcontractors.

MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE

Coverage shall be at least as broad as:

1.

Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 covering CGL
on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property damage, bodily
injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $5,000,000 per occurrence. If a
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this
project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required
occurrence limit.

Automobile Liability: Insurance Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), with
limits no less than $5,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.

Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits,
and Employers’ Liability insurance with a limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily
injury or disease.

Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) insurance utilizing an “All Risk” (Special Perils) coverage
form, with limits equal to the completed value of the project and no coinsurance penalty
provisions.

Surety Bonds as described below.

Professional Liability (if Design/Build), with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence or
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.

Contractors’ Pollution Legal Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and Omissions
(if project involves environmental hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.

If the contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above,
the Entity requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or higher limits maintained by
the contractor. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance
and coverage Shall be available to the Entity.

Self-insured Retentions

Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the Entity. At the option of the Entity,
either: the contractor shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions
as respects the Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; or the Contractor shall provide
a financial guarantee satisfactory to the Entity guaranteeing payment of losses and related
investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. The policy language shall provide, or be
endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be satisfied by either the named insured or

Entity.

Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:

Construction Contract Page 7 of 9

Rev 05/20

41 of 163


--- page 42 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 0114E44B-6CA7-4D2D-81EF-76C6981 88403

1. The Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed
by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection
with such work or operations and automobiles owned, leased, hired, or borrowed by or on behalf
of the Contractor. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to
the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10,
CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).

2. For any claims related to this project, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary
insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the Entity, its officers,
officials, employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the Entity,
its officers, officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance and
shall not contribute with it.

3. Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled,
except with notice to the Entity.

Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) Insurance

Contractor may submit evidence of Builder’s Risk insurance in the form of Course of Construction
coverage. Such coverage shall name the Entity as a loss payee as their interest may appear.

If the project does not involve new or major reconstruction, at the option of the Entity, an Installation
Floater may be acceptable. For such projects, a Property Installation Floater shall be obtained that
provides for the improvement, remodel, modification, alteration, conversion or adjustment to existing
buildings, structures, processes, machinery and equipment. The Property Installation Floater shall
provide property damage coverage for any building, structure, machinery or equipment damaged,
impaired, broken, or destroyed during the performance of the Work, including during transit,
installation, and testing at the Entity’s site.

Claims Made Policies — (If at all possible avoid and require occurrence type CGL policies)

If any coverage required is written on a claims-made coverage form:

1. The retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the execution date of the
contract or the beginning of contract work.

2. Insurance must be maintained and evidence of insurance must be provided for at least five (5)
years after completion of contract work.

3. If coverage is canceled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made policy form
with a retroactive date prior to the contract effective, or start of work date, the Contractor must
purchase extended reporting period coverage for a minimum of five (5) years after completion
of contract work.

4. Acopy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the Entity for review.

5. If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification/remediation, the Contractors
Pollution Liability policy shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos exclusions. If the services
involve mold identification/remediation, the Contractors Pollution Liability policy shall not
contain a mold exclusion, and the definition of Pollution shall include microbial matter, including
mold.

Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current A.M.
Best rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the Entity.

Construction Contract Page 8 of 9
Rev 05/20

42 of 163


--- page 43 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 0114E44B-6CA7-4D2D-81EF-76C6981 88403

Waiver of Subrogation
Contractor hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any insurer of Contractor may acquire
from Contractor by virtue of the payment of any loss. Contractor agrees to obtain any endorsement
that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The Workers’ Compensation policy shall be
endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of the Entity for all work performed by the Contractor,
its employees, agents and subcontractors.
Verification of Coverage
Contractor shall furnish the Entity with original Certificates of Insurance including all required
amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required b
this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL policy listing all polic
endorsements to Entity before work begins. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to
the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s obligation to provide them. The Entity reserves the
right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements,
required by these specifications, at any time.
Subcontractors
Contractor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all the
requirements stated herein, and Contractor shall ensure that Entity is an additional insured on insurance
required from subcontractors. For CGL coverage subcontractors shall provide coverage with a form at
least as broad as CG 20 38 04 13.
Surety Bonds
Contractor shall provide the following Surety Bonds:

1. Bid bond

2. Performance bond

3. Payment bond

4. Maintenance bond
The Payment Bond and the Performance Bond shall be in a sum equal to the contract price. If the
Performance Bond provides for a one-year warranty a separate Maintenance Bond is not necessary. If
the warranty period specified in the contract is for longer than one year a Maintenance Bond equal to
10% of the contract price is required. Bonds shall be duly executed by a responsible corporate surety,
authorized to issue such bonds in the State of California and secured through an authorized agent with
an office in California.
Special Risks or Circumstances
Entity reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of the risk,
prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other circumstances.

Construction Contract Page 9 of 9
Rev 05/20

43 of 163


--- page 44 ---
Certificate Of Completion

Envelope Id: 0114E44B6CA74D2D81EF76C698188403
Subject: Please DocuSign: Construction Agreement-Golden Bay Construction.pdf

Source Envelope:

Document Pages: 9

Certificate Pages: 5

AutoNav: Enabled

Envelopeld Stamping: Enabled

Signatures: 1
Initials: 0

Time Zone: (UTC-08:00) Pacific Time (US & Canada)

Record Tracking

Status: Original
9/9/2020 4:26:39 PM

Signer Events

Johnny Zanette
johnny@gbayinc.com
Johnny Zanette - President

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Accepted: 9/9/2020 4:39:05 PM
ID: 7f8adee8-c9b0-401 3-8 178-4506dfd5acf6

Angela Romanini
aromanini@cityofsanmateo.org
Management Analyst |

City of San Mateo

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Not Offered via DocuSign

Shawn Mason
smason@cityofsanmateo.org

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Not Offered via DocuSign

Brad B. Underwood
bunderwood@cityofsanmateo.org

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Not Offered via DocuSign

In Person Signer Events
Editor Delivery Events
Agent Delivery Events

Intermediary Delivery Events

Holder: Angela Romanini
aromanini@cityofsanmateo.org

Signature

F420BE6A2D52439...

Signature Adoption: Pre-selected Style
Using IP Address: 73.158.127.44

Signature
Status
Status

Status

DocuSign,

ra
MsEcurRreo

Status: Sent

Envelope Originator:

Angela Romanini

330 W. 20th Avenue

City Clerk's Office

San Mateo, CA 94403
aromanini@cityofsanmateo.org
IP Address: 76.14.0.98

Location: DocuSign

Timestamp

Sent: 9/9/2020 4:35:38 PM
Viewed: 9/9/2020 4:39:05 PM
Signed: 9/9/2020 4:40:44 PM

Sent: 9/10/2020 7:53:21 AM

Sent: 9/9/2020 4:40:46 PM

Timestamp
Timestamp
Timestamp

Timestamp

44 of 163


--- page 45 ---
Certified Delivery Events

Carbon Copy Events
Bethany Lopez
blopez@cityofsanmateo.org

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:

Not Offered via DocuSign

Sandy Russell
russell@cityofsanmateo.org

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:

Not Offered via DocuSign

Molly Poland
mpoland@cityofsanmateo.org

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:

Not Offered via DocuSign

Carla Talavera
ctalavera@cityofsanmateo.org

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:

Not Offered via DocuSign
Witness Events
Notary Events

Envelope Summary Events

Envelope Sent

Payment Events

Status

Status

Signature
Signature

Status
Hashed/Encrypted

Status

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure

Timestamp

Timestamp

Timestamp
Timestamp

Timestamps
9/10/2020 7:53:21 AM

Timestamps

45 of 163


--- page 46 ---
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure created on: 6/13/2017 8:08:23 AM
Parties agreed to: Johnny Zanette

CONSUMER DISCLOSURE

From time to time, Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo (we, us or Company) may be required by
law to provide to you certain written notices or disclosures. Described below are the terms and
conditions for providing to you such notices and disclosures electronically through the
DocuSign, Inc. (DocuSign) electronic signing system. Please read the information below
carefully and thoroughly, and if you can access this information electronically to your
satisfaction and agree to these terms and conditions, please confirm your agreement by clicking
the ‘I agree’ button at the bottom of this document.

Getting paper copies

At any time, you may request from us a paper copy of any record provided or made available
electronically to you by us. You will have the ability to download and print documents we send
to you through the DocuSign system during and immediately after signing session and, if you
elect to create a DocuSign signer account, you may access them for a limited period of time
(usually 30 days) after such documents are first sent to you. After such time, if you wish for us to
send you paper copies of any such documents from our office to you, you will be charged a
$0.00 per-page fee. You may request delivery of such paper copies from us by following the
procedure described below.

Withdrawing your consent

If you decide to receive notices and disclosures from us electronically, you may at any time
change your mind and tell us that thereafter you want to receive required notices and disclosures
only in paper format. How you must inform us of your decision to receive future notices and
disclosure in paper format and withdraw your consent to receive notices and disclosures
electronically is described below.

Consequences of changing your mind

If you elect to receive required notices and disclosures only in paper format, it will slow the
speed at which we can complete certain steps in transactions with you and delivering services to
you because we will need first to send the required notices or disclosures to you in paper format,
and then wait until we receive back from you your acknowledgment of your receipt of such
paper notices or disclosures. To indicate to us that you are changing your mind, you must
withdraw your consent using the DocuSign ‘Withdraw Consent’ form on the signing page of a
DocuSign envelope instead of signing it. This will indicate to us that you have withdrawn your
consent to receive required notices and disclosures electronically from us and you will no longer
be able to use the DocuSign system to receive required notices and consents electronically from
us or to sign electronically documents from us.

All notices and disclosures will be sent to you electronically

Unless you tell us otherwise in accordance with the procedures described herein, we will provide
electronically to you through the DocuSign system all required notices, disclosures,
authorizations, acknowledgements, and other documents that are required to be provided or
made available to you during the course of our relationship with you. To reduce the chance of
you inadvertently not receiving any notice or disclosure, we prefer to provide all of the required
notices and disclosures to you by the same method and to the same address that you have given
us. Thus, you can receive all the disclosures and notices electronically or in paper format through
the paper mail delivery system. If you do not agree with this process, please let us know as
described below. Please also see the paragraph immediately above that describes the
consequences of your electing not to receive delivery of the notices and disclosures

46 of 163


--- page 47 ---
electronically from us.

How to contact Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo:

You may contact us to let us know of your changes as to how we may contact you electronically,
to request paper copies of certain information from us, and to withdraw your prior consent to
receive notices and disclosures electronically as follows:

To contact us by email send messages to: cravi@cityofsanmateo.org

To advise Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo of your new e-mail address
To let us know of a change in your e-mail address where we should send notices and disclosures
electronically to you, you must send an email message to us at cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in
the body of such request you must state: your previous e-mail address, your new e-mail address.
We do not require any other information from you to change your email address..
In addition, you must notify DocuSign, Inc. to arrange for your new email address to be reflected
in your DocuSign account by following the process for changing e-mail in the DocuSign system.
To request paper copies from Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo
To request delivery from us of paper copies of the notices and disclosures previously provided
by us to you electronically, you must send us an e-mail to cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in the
body of such request you must state your e-mail address, full name, US Postal address, and
telephone number. We will bill you for any fees at that time, if any.
To withdraw your consent with Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo
To inform us that you no longer want to receive future notices and disclosures in electronic
format you may:
i. decline to sign a document from within your DocuSign session, and on the subsequent
page, select the check-box indicating you wish to withdraw your consent, or you may;
ii. send us an e-mail to cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in the body of such request you
must state your e-mail, full name, US Postal Address, and telephone number. We do not
need any other information from you to withdraw consent.. The consequences of your
withdrawing consent for online documents will be that transactions may take a longer time
to process..

Required hardware and software

Windows® 2000, Windows® XP, Windows
Vista®; Mac OS® X

Final release versions of Internet Explorer® 6.0
or above (Windows only); Mozilla Firefox 2.0
or above (Windows and Mac); Safari™ 3.0 or

above (Mac only)
Acrobat® or similar software may be required
to view and print PDF files

Screen Resolution: 800 x 600 minimum

Enabled Security Settings: Allow per session cookies

** These minimum requirements are subject to change. If these requirements change, you will be
asked to re-accept the disclosure. Pre-release (e.g. beta) versions of operating systems and
browsers are not supported.

Acknowledging your access and consent to receive materials electronically

47 of 163


--- page 48 ---
To confirm to us that you can access this information electronically, which will be similar to
other electronic notices and disclosures that we will provide to you, please verify that you were
able to read this electronic disclosure and that you also were able to print on paper or
electronically save this page for your future reference and access or that you were able to e-mail
this disclosure and consent to an address where you will be able to print on paper or save it for
your future reference and access. Further, if you consent to receiving notices and disclosures
exclusively in electronic format on the terms and conditions described above, please let us know
by clicking the ‘I agree’ button below.

By checking the ‘I agree’ box, I confirm that:

¢ TIcan access and read this Electronic CONSENT TO ELECTRONIC RECEIPT OF
ELECTRONIC CONSUMER DISCLOSURES document; and

¢ [can print on paper the disclosure or save or send the disclosure to a place where I can
print it, for future reference and access; and

¢ Until or unless I notify Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo as described above, I consent to
receive from exclusively through electronic means all notices, disclosures, authorizations,
acknowledgements, and other documents that are required to be provided or made
available to me by Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo during the course of my
relationship with you.

48 of 163


--- page 49 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3626
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
September 21, 2020 
SUBJECT:
City Hall Restrooms Remodel – Change Order No. 1
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve Change Order No. 1 with Pride Industries to perform abatement services in an amount not 
to exceed $47,165.11 and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the change order.
BACKGROUND:
In June 2020, City Council awarded a construction contract to Pride Industries to remodel the City Hall restrooms near the 
Council Chambers and in the atrium in the amount of $244,803.54.  Council also authorized the Public Works Director to 
issue change orders up to $25,000.  
The first phase of construction includes an evaluation and report for the presence of asbestos in the existing restrooms.  
Given the year when the building was constructed, asbestos was not expected to be present.  However, the evaluation 
identified asbestos was present within the floor, walls, and ceiling in the restrooms at concentrations that required 
abatement prior to demolition. 
Pride Industries provided a proposal to abate the asbestos in the amount of $47,165.11. The asbestos abatement scope of 
work includes individual containment chambers at each location with a mechanical filtering unit to create a vacuum to 
isolate air inside each space. The physical removal and demolition of the floor, wall, and ceiling material can occur once 
the spaces are isolated. Due to the quantity of asbestos removal required, staff determined the amount is fair and 
reasonable. 
Staff also recommends re-establishment of a $25,000 contingency to cover potential unforeseen conditions that may arise 
during the remainder of the project.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The amount of $47,165.11 for Change Order No. 1 is available in the City Hall Restroom Improvements project.  This 
change order will increase the overall project budget to $291,968.65.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the renovation of an existing 
building, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
49 of 163

--- page 50 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Change Order No. 1
STAFF CONTACT
Steve Wu, Project Manager II
swu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7345
50 of 163

--- page 51 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2020) 
 
APPROVING CHANGE ORDER TO THE CONTRACT FOR THE CITY HALL RESTROOM REMODEL PROJECT
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to make 
approve alternative purchasing procedures if it finds that those procedures are in the best interest of the City; 
and
WHEREAS, for the City Hall bathroom remodel project, staff has confirmed that the quote obtained from 
the current contractor is the best price available and will allow the City to complete the improvements most 
efficiently by allowing for a continuous construction schedule; and
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that: 
 
1.
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15301, this project is categorically exempt from CEQA as 
an ‘existing facility’ in that it involves negligible or no expansion of use.
2.
In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3), the City Council approves the 
alternate purchasing procedure of obtaining a quote from the City’s current contractor for the 
additional asbestos removal based on the following findings:  
a.
The quote is the best price available. 
b.
Using the City’s existing contractor for the asbestos removal work will allow for a continuous 
construction schedule.
3.
The change order for the City Hall Restroom Remodel Project is approved.
51 of 163

--- page 52 ---
Contract Change Order
Page 1 of 1
Rev 9/17
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
330 WEST 20TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
(650) 522-7300
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER NO. 1 
PROJECT:
City Hall Restrooms Remodel
TO:
Pride Industries
10030 Foothills Blvd.
Roseville, CA 95747
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER NO. 1
Page 1 of  1
Purchase Order No.
46-05122
August 27, 2020 
You are hereby directed to make the herein described changes from the plans and specifications or do the following described work not 
included in the plans and specifications on your contract.
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
Following is a description of work to be done, estimate of quantities, and prices to be paid.
1. Abatement for Restroom Remodel at Council Chambers & Atrium
Total cost of change not to exceed: $47,165.11
We, the undersigned contractor, have given careful consideration to the change 
proposed and hereby agree, if this proposal is approved, that we will provide all 
equipment, furnish all materials, except as may otherwise be noted above, and 
perform all services necessary for the work above specified, and will accept as 
full payment therefore the prices shown above.
By reason of this proposed change, 0 days extension of time will be allowed.
Date Accepted: 
Contractor: Pride Industries
By: 
 
       Mary Flores, Vice President
DISTRIBUTION: Purchasing Department, Contractor, Construction Inspector, 
Project Manager/Project Analyst, Project File
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNT
Original Contract Price
$244,803.54
Previous Change Orders
$0.00
Total to date
$244,803.54
This Change Order
$47,165.11
Revised Contract Price
$291,968.65
Date Approved: 
By: 
       BRAD B. UNDERWOOD, Public Works Director
NOTE: This change order is not effective until approved by the 
Public Works Director.
52 of 163

--- page 53 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3546
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
September 21, 2020 
SUBJECT:
On-Call Private Development Services – Amendment 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the agreement with CSG Consultants, Inc., an engineering firm, for on-call specialized 
subdivision map review and processing services in the amount of $90,000, for a new agreement total of $180,000; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented. 
BACKGROUND:
On October 20, 2017, the City Manager approved an agreement with CSG Consultants, Inc. (CSG) for On-Call Private 
Development Services in an amount not-to-exceed $90,000. Services provided by CSG consist of map checking, including 
review of tentative and final parcel maps, as well as easements, lot line adjustments, and mergers. The City needs 
professional engineering services from a firm that specializes in subdivision map review and processing because this work 
is outside of the usual course of City staff’s work. 
The agreement with CSG is only for work related to maps and associated items, and the increased budget is estimated to 
be sufficient for two years of map-related work. All of CSG’s costs will be paid for through deposits collected as part of the 
building permit process. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no impact on the General Fund because specific project accounts will be charged as appropriate. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This amendment to a professional services agreement is an administrative action that will not cause a significant change in 
the physical environment and is therefore not a project subject to CEQA. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Amendment
STAFF CONTACT
Tracy Scramaglia, Senior Engineer
tscramaglia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7316
53 of 163

--- page 54 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Jay Yu, Engineering Manager
jyu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7323
54 of 163

--- page 55 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 1 of 3 
Rev 9/17 
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND 
CSG CONSULTANTS, INC. FOR 
PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
CSG Consultants, Inc (“Consultant”), entered into an Agreement for Professional Consultant Services 
(“Agreement”) on November 15th, 2017; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City requires  the services of a professional engineering firm specializing in the 
review and processing of maps; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Consultant will provide these services free from the control and direction of City 
staff; and 
 
WHEREAS, this work is outside the usual course of City staff’s work; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Consultant is customarily engaged in these specialized engineering services; and 
 
WHEREAS, City and Consultant wish to amend the Agreement to increase the payment from 
$90,000 to a not-to-exceed amount of $180,000; and 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows: 
 
 
1. 
Section 8 - Payment of the Agreement is amended to read: 
 
“Payment shall be made by the CITY only for services rendered an upon submission of a 
payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In 
consideration for the full performances of the services and any reimbursable expenses 
set forth in this Agreement, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee based on verified 
time and materials not to exceed $180,000.  Requests for payments shall be itemized 
and correspond to the various items of work described in Exhibit A and shall be based 
on the rate and cost schedule set forth in Exhibit B-1. 
 
Payment for extra work or changes in the work will not be made unless for work 
authorized in advance in writing by the PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.  Prior to commencing 
such extra work or changes, CONSULTANT and CITY shall agree upon an estimated not 
to exceed cost for such extra work.  In no event shall CONSULTANT be paid for 
additional work that is necessary because of CONSULTANT’S errors or oversights.” 
 
2. 
Exhibit B of the Agreement shall be replaced with Exhibit B-1. 
 
 
3. 
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 51A66E2D-EBAE-425A-B4B8-984D4B34D0DB
Signing In Process
55 of 163

--- page 56 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 2 of 3 
Rev 9/17 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and CSG Consultants, Inc have executed this Agreement 
on ____________________. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Brad B. Underwood 
Public Works Director 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cyrus Kianpour 
Its Authorized Agent 
President 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 51A66E2D-EBAE-425A-B4B8-984D4B34D0DB
Signing In Process
56 of 163

--- page 57 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 3 of 3 
Rev 9/17 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 51A66E2D-EBAE-425A-B4B8-984D4B34D0DB
Signing In Process
57 of 163

--- page 58 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3556
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
September 21, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Office of Traffic Safety – Grant Spending Plan
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate funds for the Office of Traffic Safety Selective Traffic Enforcement Program grant 
totaling $85,000; and authorize the Police Chief to execute the agreement and expend the funds.
BACKGROUND:
For several years, the federal and state governments, through the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and the 
California Office of Traffic Safety, have awarded yearly grants to the San Mateo Police Department. The grants come with 
very specific spending criteria and require a resolution to approve the spending plans and appropriate the funds. 
The success of this program hinges on high profile enforcement and public awareness. The grant funds will enable the 
Police Department to conduct DUI checkpoints, DUI saturation patrols, targeted speed enforcement, red light 
enforcement, distracted driver enforcement, and other specialized enforcement programs. The funds will assist the Police 
Department in focusing its efforts on the primary collision factors (PCF’s) that lead to collisions. 
The strategies used by the City of San Mateo will involve the “Three E’s” of traffic safety – Education, Enforcement, and 
Engineering - to further our City’s efforts towards reducing injury accidents. Specifically, for the education component, 
SMPD traffic officers will conduct further safety talks directed at the elderly population that began in 2013. Additional 
safety talks will be geared towards school age children regarding pedestrian and bicycle safety. For the enforcement 
component, SMPD traffic officers will continue targeted enforcement at problem locations where injury collisions, 
especially auto-pedestrian collisions, have occurred in the past. This has included pedestrian sting operations at 
uncontrolled intersections with crosswalks in 2013, 2015, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 that netted significant citations and 
favorable media coverage. For the engineering component, SMPD will continue collaboration with the Public Works 
Department regarding engineering and design responses to problem locations. This involves meetings with Public Works 
personnel twice a month for study and implementation of new strategies to improve pedestrian safety. 
The Office of Traffic Safety (OTS) funds will be used to staff overtime details for traffic enforcement and distracted driving 
enforcement with the objective of decreasing injury collisions and the threat of auto-pedestrian collisions. The funds will 
also be utilized to address DUI drivers through the staffing of DUI checkpoints, DUI saturation details, a DUI warrant detail, 
and a DUI stakeout detail. 
SMPD will also continue its collaboration with county-wide Selective Traffic Enforcement Program (STEP) programs 
whereby officers team up with other San Mateo County law enforcement agencies as part of a traffic enforcement strike 
team that focuses on two cities at a time conducting high-profile enforcement at high-collision locations. 
58 of 163

--- page 59 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
SMPD officers will continue proactive traffic enforcement during National Distracted Driving Awareness Month in April, the 
Click it or Ticket Campaign in May, and the AVOID operations throughout the year. 
Finally, SMPD will issue press releases, including using NIXLE, Nextdoor, Twitter, and Facebook, over the grant term calling 
attention to the innovative program strategies and outcomes in furtherance of the grant and to enhance overall traffic 
safety. These will include a press release announcing the grant award and other press releases that call attention to 
proactive enforcement efforts against DUIs, basic traffic and motorcycle safety, and strategies to combat future auto-
pedestrian collisions.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Office of Traffic Safety (OTS) Selective Traffic Enforcement Program (STEP) grant requires no matching funds and 
covers all contract and equipment expenditures. There is no impact to the General Fund and once appropriated, $85,000 
in funds will be added to the Police Grant (Fund 20) budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution 
Att 2 - Grant Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
Craig Collom, Traffic Sergeant
ccollom@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7742
59 of 163

--- page 60 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2020)
APPROPRIATING FUNDS AND AUTHORIZING THE CHIEF OF POLICE TO EXECUTE THE GRANT AGREEMENT TO 
EXPEND THE OFFICE OF TRAFFIC SAFETY SELECTIVE TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM GRANT FUNDS 
TOTALING $85,000
  
WHEREAS, the Office of Traffic Safety (OTS) has awarded the City a grant totaling $85,000 through its 
Selective Traffic Enforcement Program (STEP) for local law enforcement traffic 
control/safety purposes; and 
WHEREAS, OTS requires that recipient cities adopt resolutions to appropriate funds, which would be 
reimbursed through the grant, and authorize the expenditure of STEP grant monies; and
 
WHEREAS, in accordance with Public Resources Code section 21065, approval of this agreement is not a 
project subject to California Environmental Quality Act Guidelines because it can be seen with certainty that 
entry into this grant agreement will not have a significant effect on the environment; 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
The appropriation of $85,000 in Selective Traffic Enforcement Program grant funds to the police 
grant fund budget is approved. 
2.
The Chief of Police is authorized execute the Office of Traffic Safety Selective Traffic Enforcement 
Program grant agreement and to expend the Office of Traffic Safety Selective Traffic Enforcement 
Program grant funds for traffic control/safety purposes.
60 of 163

--- page 61 ---
8/17/2020 2:23:28 PM 
 
 
Page 1 of 17 
 
State of California – Office of Traffic Safety 
GRANT AGREEMENT  
 
GRANT NUMBER 
 PT21163 
 
 
 
1. GRANT TITLE 
Selective Traffic Enforcement Program (STEP) 
2. NAME OF AGENCY    
3. Grant Period 
San Mateo 
From: 
To: 
10/01/2020 
09/30/2021 
4. AGENCY UNIT TO ADMINISTER GRANT 
San Mateo Police Department 
5. GRANT DESCRIPTION 
Best practice strategies will be conducted to reduce the number of persons killed and injured in crashes 
involving alcohol and other primary crash factors. The funded strategies may include impaired driving 
enforcement, enforcement operations focusing on primary crash factors, distracted driving, night-time seat belt 
enforcement, special enforcement operations encouraging motorcycle safety, enforcement and public 
awareness in areas with a high number of bicycle and pedestrian crashes, and educational programs. These 
strategies are designed to earn media attention thus enhancing the overall deterrent effect. 
6. Federal Funds Allocated Under This Agreement Shall Not Exceed: 
$85,000.00 
7. TERMS AND CONDITIONS:  The parties agree to comply with the terms and conditions of the following which are by 
this reference made a part of the Agreement: 
 
Schedule A – Problem Statement, Goals and Objectives and Method of Procedure 
 
Schedule B – Detailed Budget Estimate and Sub-Budget Estimate (if applicable)  
 
Schedule B-1 – Budget Narrative and Sub-Budget Narrative (if applicable) 
 
Exhibit A – Certifications and Assurances 
 
Exhibit B* – OTS Grant Program Manual 
 
Exhibit C – Grant Electronic Management System (GEMS) Access 
*Items shown with an asterisk (*), are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of this agreement as if 
attached hereto. 
  These documents can be viewed at the OTS home web page under Grants:  www.ots.ca.gov. 
We, the officials named below, hereby swear under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that we 
are duly authorized to legally bind the Grant recipient to the above described Grant terms and conditions. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed by the parties hereto. 
8. Approval Signatures 
A. GRANT DIRECTOR 
B. AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL 
NAME: 
 
TITLE: 
 
EMAIL: 
 
PHONE: 
 
ADDRESS: 
Craig Collom 
 
Traffic Sergeant 
 
ccollom@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
(650) 522-7742 
 
200 Franklin Pkwy 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
ADDRESS: Ed Barberini 
 
Chief 
 
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
(650) 522-7600 
 
200 Franklin Pkwy 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
                 
                   
 
(Signature) 
 
(Date) 
 
 
(Signature) 
 
(Date) 
 
 
C. FISCAL OFFICIAL 
 
D. AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL OF OFFICE OF TRAFFIC SAFETY 
ADDRESS: Richard Lee 
 
Finance Director 
 
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
(650) 522-7102 
 
330 W 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
ADDRESS: Barbara Rooney 
 
Director 
 
barbara.rooney@ots.ca.gov 
 
(916) 509-3030 
 
2208 Kausen Drive Suite 300 
Elk Grove, CA 95758 
                  
                   
 
(Signature) 
 
(Date) 
 
 
(Signature) 
 
(Date) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Craig Collom (Aug 17, 2020 14:26 PDT)
Craig Collom
Aug 17, 2020
Aug 17, 2020
Ed Barberini (Aug 17, 2020 21:13 PDT)
Ed Barberini
Aug 17, 2020
Aug 19, 2020
61 of 163

--- page 62 ---
8/17/2020 2:23:28 PM 
 
 
Page 2 of 17 
 
 
E. ACCOUNTING OFFICER OF OFFICE OF TRAFFIC SAFETY 
9. DUNS INFORMATION 
NAME:  Carolyn Vu 
 
DUNS #: 
REGISTERED  
ADDRESS: 
CITY:  
ZIP+4: 
085845147 
 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo 
94403-1338 
ADDRESS:  2208 Kausen Drive, Suite 300 
Elk Grove, CA 95758 
 
 
 
10. PROJECTED EXPENDITURES 
FUND 
CFDA 
ITEM/APPROPRIATION 
F.Y. 
CHAPTER 
STATUTE 
PROJECTED 
EXPENDITURES 
164 AL-21 
20.608 
0521-0890-101 
2020 
2020 
BA/20 
$55,000.00 
402PT-21 
20.600 
0521-0890-101 
2020 
2020 
BA/20 
$30,000.00 
  
AGREEMENT 
TOTAL  
 
$85,000.00 
AMOUNT ENCUMBERED BY THIS DOCUMENT 
I CERTIFY upon my own personal knowledge that the budgeted 
funds for the current budget year are available for the period and 
purpose of the expenditure stated above. 
 
$85,000.00 
PRIOR AMOUNT ENCUMBERED FOR THIS 
AGREEMENT 
 
$ 0.00 
OTS ACCOUNTING OFFICER’S SIGNATURE 
DATE SIGNED 
TOTAL AMOUNT ENCUMBERED TO DATE 
  
 
 
$85,000.00 
 
 
 
Carolyn Vu (Aug 18, 2020 08:24 PDT)
Carolyn Vu
Aug 18, 2020
62 of 163

--- page 63 ---
8/17/2020 2:23:28 PM 
 
 
Page 3 of 17 
 
State of California – Office of Traffic Safety 
GRANT AGREEMENT  
Schedule A 
GRANT NUMBER 
PT21163 
 
1. PROBLEM STATEMENT 
The area to be served by this grant is the City of San Mateo, the second largest city in San Mateo County, 
which is located between San Francisco and San Jose on the San Francisco Peninsula. 
The City has a residential population of approximately 105,025 (US Census Estimate for July 1, 2019), and 
a significant daytime transitory population of employees and customers working at or frequenting many of 
the businesses and shopping districts in the City. Included among this is a vibrant downtown shopping area 
that employs many workers and attracts many visitors. It is surrounded by many large, multi-story, 
apartment and condominium buildings that are occupied by primarily elderly citizens. This is reflected by a 
higher percentage than the state average in persons over the age of 65 (San Mateo: 15.1%; statewide: 
13.6% - US Census ). In other parts of the City, large scale new developments are under way, attracting 
additional future residents to the City of San Mateo, which will significantly add to the City’s population in the 
coming years. 
 
In the past, San Mateo experienced an alarming increase in the number of elderly victims killed and injured 
in traffic collisions, both as drivers and pedestrians, with the highest increase being among pedestrians. In 
2014, the City of San Mateo had 54 collisions involving pedestrians with one (1) pedestrian fatality. In 2015, 
the City of San Mateo had 54 collisions involving pedestrians and no fatalities. In 2016, the City of San 
Mateo had 41 collisions involving pedestrians and no fatalities. In 2017, the City of San Mateo had 56 
collisions involving pedestrians and two (2) fatalities. In 2018, the City of San Mateo had 66 collisions 
involving pedestrians and one (1) fatalities. In 2019, the City of San Mateo had 63 collisions involving 
pedestrians and one (1) fatality.   
 
Our goals, with the financial assistance of OTS grant funds, include focusing our efforts on reducing 
pedestrian fatalities to zero and to further reduce all collisions involving pedestrians. This can only be 
achieved through constant and continuous awareness messaging, ongoing educational programs, and 
unwavering enforcement. Without STEP Grant funds, these goals will be challenging to achieve. 
 
In 2014 the San Mateo Police Department made 426 DUI related arrests. The City had 82 DUI related 
vehicle collisions, 14 of these collisions had injuries, and one (1) fatality. 
 
In 2015, the San Mateo Police Department had 278 DUI related arrests. The City had 61 DUI related vehicle 
collisions with eight (8) injuries and no (zero) fatalities. 
 
In 2016, the San Mateo Police Department had 276 DUI related arrests. The City had 79 DUI related vehicle 
collisions, 22 of these collisions had injuries, and no (zero) fatalities. 
 
In 2017, the San Mateo Police Department had 229 DUI related arrests. The City had 100 DUI related 
vehicle collisions, 23 of these collisions had injuries, and no (zero) fatalities. 
 
In 2018, the San Mateo Police Department had 150 DUI related arrests. The City had 107 DUI related 
vehicle collisions, 33 of these collisions had injuries, and no (zero) fatalities. 
 
In 2019, the San Mateo Police Department had 134 DUI related arrests. The City had 93 DUI related vehicle 
collisions, 26 of these collisions had injuries, and no (zero) fatalities. 
 
The lower than previous DUI arrests, coupled with the decrease in DUI related collisions, are cause for 
attention and careful analysis. Our Department is committed to addressing these factors and to employ 
better education, relentless enforcement, strong prosecution, directed enforcement, and additional 
enforcement programs afforded by OTS STEP grant funds. Our goals, with the assistance of OTS, include 
continuing to have zero DUI related fatalities and further reducing the occurrences of drunk driving. Despite 
a decline in DUI arrests we know from our experience these achievements can only be maintained through 
unwavering and relentless enforcement, continuing deterrent operations such as DUI checkpoints, and 
continues public messaging and awareness programs. Again, without STEP Grant funds these goals will be 
more challenging to achieve. 
63 of 163

--- page 64 ---
8/17/2020 2:23:28 PM 
 
 
Page 4 of 17 
 
  
2. PERFORMANCE MEASURES 
A. Goals: 
1. Reduce the number of persons killed in traffic crashes. 
2. Reduce the number of persons injured in traffic crashes. 
3. Reduce the number of pedestrians killed in traffic crashes. 
4. Reduce the number of pedestrians injured in traffic crashes. 
5. Reduce the number of bicyclists killed in traffic crashes. 
6. Reduce the number of bicyclists injured in traffic crashes. 
7. Reduce the number of persons killed in alcohol-involved crashes. 
8. Reduce the number of persons injured in alcohol-involved crashes. 
9. Reduce the number of persons killed in drug-involved crashes. 
10. Reduce the number of persons injured in drug-involved crashes. 
11. Reduce the number of persons killed in alcohol/drug combo-involved crashes. 
12. Reduce the number of persons injured in alcohol/drug combo-involved crashes. 
13. Reduce the number of motorcyclists killed in traffic crashes. 
14. Reduce the number of motorcyclists injured in traffic crashes. 
15. Reduce hit & run fatal crashes. 
16. Reduce hit & run injury crashes. 
17. Reduce nighttime (2100 - 0259 hours) fatal crashes. 
18. Reduce nighttime (2100 - 0259 hours) injury crashes. 
B. Objectives: 
Target Number 
1. Issue a press release announcing the kick-off of the grant by November 15.  The 
kick-off press releases and media advisories, alerts, and materials must be 
emailed to the OTS Public Information Officer at pio@ots.ca.gov, and copied to 
your OTS Coordinator, for approval 14 days prior to the issuance date of the 
release. 
1 
2. Participate and report data (as required) in the following campaigns, National Walk 
to School Day, National Teen Driver Safety Week, NHTSA Winter Mobilization, 
National Distracted Driving Awareness Month, National Motorcycle Safety Month, 
National Bicycle Safety Month, National Click it or Ticket Mobilization, NHTSA 
Summer Mobilization, National Child Passenger Safety Week, and California's 
Pedestrian Safety Month. 
10 
3. Develop (by December 31) and/or maintain a “HOT Sheet” program to notify patrol 
and traffic officers to be on the lookout for identified repeat DUI offenders with a 
suspended or revoked license as a result of DUI convictions. Updated HOT sheets 
should be distributed to patrol and traffic officers monthly. 
12 
4. Conduct DUI/DL Checkpoints. A minimum of 1 checkpoint should be conducted 
during the NHTSA Winter Mobilization and 1 during the Summer Mobilization. To 
enhance the overall deterrent effect and promote high visibility, it is recommended 
the grantee issue an advance press release and conduct social media activity for 
each checkpoint. For combination DUI/DL checkpoints, departments should issue 
press releases that mention DL's will be checked at the DUI/DL checkpoint. Signs 
for DUI/DL checkpoints should read "DUI/Driver's License Checkpoint Ahead." 
OTS does not fund or support independent DL checkpoints. Only on an exception 
basis and with OTS pre-approval will OTS fund checkpoints that begin prior to 
1800 hours. When possible, DUI/DL Checkpoint screeners should be DRE- or 
ARIDE-trained. 
2 
5. Conduct DUI Saturation Patrol operation(s). 
11 
6. Conduct Traffic Enforcement operation(s), including but not limited to, primary 
crash factor violations. 
12 
7. Conduct highly publicized Distracted Driving enforcement operation(s) targeting 
drivers using hand held cell phones and texting. 
6 
8. Conduct highly publicized pedestrian and/or bicycle enforcement operation(s) in 
areas or during events with a high number of pedestrian and/or bicycle crashes 
resulting from violations made by pedestrians, bicyclists, and drivers. 
4 
64 of 163

--- page 65 ---
8/17/2020 2:23:28 PM 
 
 
Page 5 of 17 
 
9. Conduct Traffic Safety educational presentation(s) with an effort to reach 
community members. Note: Presentation(s) may include topics such as distracted 
driving, DUI, speed, bicycle and pedestrian safety, seat belts and child passenger 
safety. 
3 
10. Conduct highly visible collaborative DUI Enforcement operations 
2 
11. Conduct highly visible collaborative Traffic Enforcement operations 
2 
3. METHOD OF PROCEDURE 
A. Phase 1 – Program Preparation (1st Quarter of Grant Year) 
 
The department will develop operational plans to implement the “best practice” strategies 
outlined in the objectives section. 
 
All training needed to implement the program should be conducted this quarter. 
 
All grant related purchases needed to implement the program should be made this quarter.  
 
In order to develop/maintain the “Hot Sheets,” research will be conducted to identify the “worst of 
the worst” repeat DUI offenders with a suspended or revoked license as a result of DUI 
convictions. The Hot Sheets may include the driver’s name, last known address, DOB, 
description, current license status, and the number of times suspended or revoked for DUI. Hot 
Sheets should be updated and distributed to traffic and patrol officers at least monthly.  
 
Implementation of the STEP grant activities will be accomplished by deploying personnel at high 
crash locations.Media Requirements 
 
Issue a press release announcing the kick-off of the grant by November 15, but no earlier than 
October 1.  If unable to meet the November 15 date, communicate reasons to your OTS 
Coordinator.  The kick-off press releases and any related media advisories, alerts, and materials 
must be emailed for approval to the OTS Public Information Officer at pio@ots.ca.gov, and 
copied to your OTS Coordinator, 14 days prior to the issuance date of the release.  
B. Phase 2 – Program Operations (Throughout Grant Year) 
 
The department will work to create media opportunities throughout the grant period to call 
attention to the innovative program strategies and outcomes.Media Requirements 
 
Send all grant-related activity press releases, media advisories, alerts and general public 
materials to the OTS Public Information Officer (PIO) at pio@ots.ca.gov, with a copy to your OTS 
Coordinator. The following requirements are for grant-related activities and are different from 
those regarding any grant kick-off release or announcement. 
 
If an OTS-supplied, template-based press release is used, there is no need for pre-approval, 
however, the OTS PIO and Coordinator should be copied when at the same time as the release 
is distributed to the press.   
 
If an OTS-supplied template is not used, or is substantially changed, a draft press release shall 
be sent to the OTS PIO for approval. Optimum lead-time would be 10 days prior to the release 
distribution date, but should be no less than 5 working days prior to the release distribution date. 
 
Press releases reporting the immediate and time-valued results of grant activities such as 
enforcement operations are exempt from the recommended advance approval process, but still 
should be copied to the OTS PIO and Coordinator when the release is distributed to the press.   
 
Activities such as warrant or probation sweeps and court stings that could be compromised by 
advanced publicity are exempt from pre-publicity, but are encouraged to offer embargoed media 
coverage and to report the results. 
 
Use the following standard language in all press, media, and printed materials: Funding for this 
program was provided by a grant from the California Office of Traffic Safety, through the National 
Highway Traffic Safety Administration.  
 
Email the OTS PIO at pio@ots.ca.gov and copy your OTS Coordinator at least 30 days in 
advance, a short description of any significant grant-related traffic safety event or program so 
OTS has sufficient notice to arrange for attendance and/or participation in the event.  
 
Submit a draft or rough-cut of all printed or recorded material (brochures, posters, scripts, 
artwork, trailer graphics, etc.) to the OTS PIO at pio@ots.ca.gov and copy your OTS Coordinator 
for approval 14 days prior to the production or duplication.   
 
Space permitting, include the OTS logo, on grant-funded print materials; consult your OTS 
Coordinator for specifics and format-appropriate logos. 
 
Contact the OTS PIO or your OTS Coordinator, sufficiently far enough in advance of need, for 
consultation when deviation from any of the above requirements might be contemplated 
65 of 163

--- page 66 ---
8/17/2020 2:23:28 PM 
 
 
Page 6 of 17 
 
C. Phase 3 – Data Collection & Reporting (Throughout Grant Year) 
 Prepare and submit invoice claims (due January 30, April 30, July 30, and October 30) 
 Prepare and submit Quarterly Performance Reports (QPR) (due January 30, April 30, July 30, 
and October 30) 
 
Collect and report quarterly, appropriate data that supports the progress of goals and objectives. 
 
Provide a brief list of activity conducted, procurement of grant-funded items, and significant 
media activities.  Include status of grant-funded personnel, status of contracts, challenges, or 
special accomplishments. 
 
Provide a brief summary of quarterly accomplishments and explanations for objectives not 
completed or plans for upcoming activities. 
 
Collect, analyze and report statistical data relating to the grant goals and objectives.   
4. METHOD OF EVALUATION 
Using the data compiled during the grant, the Grant Director will complete the “Final Evaluation” section in 
the fourth/final Quarterly Performance Report (QPR). The Final Evaluation should provide a brief summary 
of the grant’s accomplishments, challenges and significant activities. This narrative should also include 
whether goals and objectives were met, exceeded, or an explanation of why objectives were not completed. 
5. ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT 
This program has full administrative support, and every effort will be made to continue the grant activities 
after grant conclusion. 
 
 
 
66 of 163

--- page 67 ---
8/17/2020 2:23:28 PM 
 
 
Page 7 of 17 
 
State of California – Office of Traffic Safety 
GRANT AGREEMENT  
Schedule B 
GRANT NUMBER 
PT21163 
 
FUND NUMBER 
CATALOG 
NUMBER (CFDA) 
FUND DESCRIPTION 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
164AL-21 
20.608 
Minimum Penalties for Repeat 
Offenders for Driving While 
Intoxicated 
$55,000.00 
402PT-21 
20.600 
State and Community Highway 
Safety 
$30,000.00 
 
COST CATEGORY 
FUND 
NUMBER 
UNIT COST OR 
RATE 
UNITS 
TOTAL COST TO 
GRANT 
A. PERSONNEL COSTS 
Positions and Salaries 
 
 
 
 
Straight Time 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
$0.00 
Overtime 
 
 
 
 
DUI/DL Checkpoints 
164AL-21 
$12,250.00 
2 
$24,500.00 
DUI Saturation Patrols 
164AL-21 
$1,970.00 
11 
$21,670.00 
Traffic Enforcement 
402PT-21 
$985.00 
12 
$11,820.00 
Distracted Driving 
402PT-21 
$985.00 
6 
$5,910.00 
Pedestrian and Bicycle Enforcement 
402PT-21 
$985.00 
4 
$3,940.00 
Collaborative DUI Enforcement 
164AL-21 
$1,970.00 
2 
$3,940.00 
Collaborative Traffic Enforcement 
402PT-21 
$1,970.00 
2 
$3,940.00 
Category Sub-Total 
 
 
 
$75,720.00 
B. TRAVEL EXPENSES 
In State Travel 
402PT-21 
$2,575.00 
1 
$2,575.00 
 
 
 
 
$0.00 
Category Sub-Total 
 
 
 
$2,575.00 
C. CONTRACTUAL SERVICES 
 
 
 
 
$0.00 
Category Sub-Total 
 
 
 
$0.00 
D. EQUIPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$0.00 
Category Sub-Total 
 
 
 
$0.00 
E. OTHER DIRECT COSTS 
DUI Checkpoint Supplies 
164AL-21 
$925.00 
1 
$925.00 
Portable Light Tower 
164AL-21 
$3,965.00 
1 
$3,965.00 
Traffic Control Devices 
402PT-21 
$1,815.00 
1 
$1,815.00 
Category Sub-Total 
 
 
 
$6,705.00 
F. INDIRECT COSTS 
 
 
 
 
$0.00 
Category Sub-Total 
 
 
 
$0.00 
GRANT TOTAL 
 
 
 
$85,000.00 
 
 
67 of 163

--- page 68 ---
8/17/2020 2:23:28 PM 
 
 
Page 8 of 17 
 
State of California – Office of Traffic Safety 
GRANT AGREEMENT  
Schedule B-1 
GRANT NUMBER 
PT21163 
 
BUDGET NARRATIVE 
PERSONNEL COSTS 
DUI/DL Checkpoints - Overtime for grant funded law enforcement operations conducted by appropriate 
department personnel. 
 
DUI Saturation Patrols - Overtime for grant funded law enforcement operations conducted by appropriate 
department personnel. 
 
Traffic Enforcement - Overtime for grant funded law enforcement operations conducted by appropriate 
department personnel. 
 
Distracted Driving - Overtime for grant funded law enforcement operations conducted by appropriate 
department personnel. 
 
Pedestrian and Bicycle Enforcement - Overtime for grant funded law enforcement operations conducted by 
appropriate department personnel. 
 
Collaborative DUI Enforcement - Overtime for grant funded Collaborative DUI Enforcement operations 
conducted by appropriate department personnel 
 
Collaborative Traffic Enforcement - Overtime for grant funded Collaborative Traffic Enforcement operations 
conducted by appropriate department personnel 
 
 
TRAVEL EXPENSES 
In State Travel - Costs are included for appropriate staff to attend conferences and training events 
supporting the grant goals and objectives and/or traffic safety.  Local mileage for grant activities and 
meetings is included.  Anticipated travel may include Lifesavers 2021 Conference.  All conferences, 
seminars or training not specifically identified in the Budget Narrative must be approved by OTS. All travel 
claimed must be at the agency approved rate.  Per Diem may not be claimed for meals provided at 
conferences when registration fees are paid with OTS grant funds. 
 
CONTRACTUAL SERVICES 
 -  
EQUIPMENT 
 -  
OTHER DIRECT COSTS 
DUI Checkpoint Supplies - On-scene supplies needed to conduct sobriety checkpoints.  Costs may include 
28" traffic cones, MUTCD compliant traffic signs, MUTCD compliant high visibility vests (maximum of 10), 
traffic counters (maximum of 2), generator, gas for generators, lighting, reflective banners, electronic flares, 
PAS device supplies, heater, propane for heaters, fan, anti-fatigue mats, and canopies.  Additional items 
may be purchased if approved by OTS.  The cost of food and beverages will not be reimbursed. 
Portable Light Tower - High intensity light on a telescoping shaft and stabilized platform to illuminate a wide 
area for greater visibility during night time operations.  Costs may include a generator and accessories. 
Traffic Control Devices - Grantee Agency may purchase and distribute to various locations traffic control 
devices to be used in temporary traffic control situations.  Costs may include traffic cones, MUTCD 
compliant traffic signs, sign stands, barricades, lighting devices, traffic control wands, electronic flares 
Additional items may be purchased if approved by OTS. Each item must have a unit cost of less than $5,000 
(including tax, shipping and installation). 
INDIRECT COSTS 
 -  
STATEMENTS/DISCLAIMERS 
Program Income default statement: 
68 of 163

--- page 69 ---
8/17/2020 2:23:28 PM 
 
 
Page 9 of 17 
 
There will be no program income generated from this grant. 
 
Enforcement Grant Quota Disclaimer: 
Nothing in this “agreement” shall be interpreted as a requirement, formal or informal, that a particular law 
enforcement officer issue a specified or predetermined number of citations in pursuance of the goals and 
objectives here under. 
 
 
69 of 163

--- page 70 ---
8/17/2020 2:23:28 PM 
 
 
Page 10 of 17 
 
State of California – Office of Traffic Safety 
GRANT AGREEMENT  
Exhibit A 
GRANT NUMBER 
PT21163 
 
CERTIFICATIONS AND ASSURANCES 
HIGHWAY SAFETY GRANTS 
(23 U.S.C. CHAPTER 4 AND SEC. 1906, PUB. L. 109-59, AS AMENDED) 
Failure to comply with applicable Federal statutes, regulations, and directives may subject Grantee Agency 
officials to civil or criminal penalties and/or place State in a high-risk grantee status in accordance with 49 CFR 
18.12. 
 
The Officials named on the grant agreement signature page, that the Grantee Agency complies with all 
applicable Federal statutes, regulations, and directives and State rules, guidelines, policies and laws in effect 
with respect to the periods for which it receives grant funding.  Applicable provisions include but are not limited 
to the following: 
 
 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS  
• 
23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 – Highway Safety Act of 1966, as amended  
• 
2 CFR part 200 – Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for 
Federal Awards  
• 
49 CFR Part 18- Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State 
and Local Governments. 
• 
23 CFR part 1300 – Uniform Procedures for State Highway Safety Grant Programs  
 
NONDISCRIMINATION  
(applies to subrecipients as well as States)  
The State highway safety agency will comply with all Federal statutes and implementing regulations relating to 
nondiscrimination (“Federal Nondiscrimination Authorities”). These include but are not limited to:  
• Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq., 78 stat. 252), (prohibits discrimination on 
the basis of race, color, national origin) and 49 CFR part 21;  
• The Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, (42 U.S.C. 4601), 
(prohibits unfair treatment of persons displaced or whose property has been acquired because of Federal or 
Federal-aid programs and projects);  
• Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1973, (23 U.S.C. 324 et seq.), and Title IX of the Education Amendments of 
1972, as amended (20 U.S.C. 1681-1683 and 1685-1686) (prohibit discrimination on the basis of sex);  
• Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, (29 U.S.C. 794 et seq.), as amended, (prohibits discrimination 
on the basis of disability) and 49 CFR part 27;  
• The Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended, (42 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), (prohibits discrimination on the 
basis of age);  
• The Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987, (Pub. L. 100-209), (broadens scope, coverage and applicability of 
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, The Age Discrimination Act of 1975 and Section 504 of the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, by expanding the definition of the terms "programs or activities" to include all of the 
programs or activities of the Federal aid recipients, subrecipients and contractors, whether such programs or 
activities are Federally-funded or not);  
• Titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12131-12189) (prohibits discrimination 
on the basis of disability in the operation of public entities, public and private transportation systems, places of 
public accommodation, and certain testing) and 49 CFR parts 37 and 38;  
• Executive Order 12898, Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority Populations and 
Low-Income Populations (prevents discrimination against minority populations by discouraging programs, 
policies, and activities with disproportionately high and adverse human health or environmental effects on 
minority and low-income populations); and  
• Executive Order 13166, Improving Access to Services for Persons with Limited English Proficiency 
(guards against Title VI national origin discrimination/discrimination because of limited English proficiency (LEP) 
by ensuring that funding recipients take reasonable steps to ensure that LEP persons have meaningful access 
to programs (70 FR 74087-74100).  
70 of 163

--- page 71 ---
8/17/2020 2:23:28 PM 
 
 
Page 11 of 17 
 
 
The State highway safety agency—  
 
• Will take all measures necessary to ensure that no person in the United States shall, on the grounds of race, 
color, national origin, disability, sex, age, limited English proficiency, or membership in any other class 
protected by Federal Nondiscrimination Authorities, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, 
or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under any of its programs or activities, so long as any portion of the 
program is Federally-assisted;  
 
• Will administer the program in a manner that reasonably ensures that any of its subrecipients, contractors, 
subcontractors, and consultants receiving Federal financial assistance under this program will comply with all 
requirements of the Non-Discrimination Authorities identified in this Assurance;  
 
• Agrees to comply (and require its subrecipients, contractors, subcontractors, and consultants to comply) with 
all applicable provisions of law or regulation governing US DOT’s or NHTSA’s access to records, accounts, 
documents, information, facilities, and staff, and to cooperate and comply with any program or compliance 
reviews, and/or complaint investigations conducted by US DOT or NHTSA under any Federal Nondiscrimination 
Authority;  
 
• Acknowledges that the United States has a right to seek judicial enforcement with regard to any matter arising 
under these Non-Discrimination Authorities and this Assurance;  
 
• Agrees to insert in all contracts and funding agreements with other State or private entities the following 
clause:  
 
“During the performance of this contract/funding agreement, the contractor/funding recipient agrees—  
 
a. To comply with all Federal nondiscrimination laws and regulations, as may be amended from time to time;  
 
b. Not to participate directly or indirectly in the discrimination prohibited by any Federal non-discrimination law 
or regulation, as set forth in appendix B of 49 CFR part 2l and herein;  
 
c. To permit access to its books, records, accounts, other sources of information, and its facilities as required by 
the State highway safety office, US DOT or NHTSA;  
 
d. That, in event a contractor/funding recipient fails to comply with any nondiscrimination provisions in this 
contract/funding agreement, the State highway safety agency will have the right to impose such 
contract/agreement sanctions as it or NHTSA determine are appropriate, including but not limited to withholding 
payments to the contractor/funding recipient under the contract/agreement until the contractor/funding recipient 
complies; and/or cancelling, terminating, or suspending a contract or funding agreement, in whole or in part; 
and  
 
e. To insert this clause, including paragraphs (a) through (e), in every subcontract and subagreement and in 
every solicitation for a subcontract or sub-agreement, that receives Federal funds under this program.  
 
POLITICAL ACTIVITY (HATCH ACT) 
(applies to subrecipients as well as States) 
The state will comply with provisions of the Hatch Act (5 U.S.C. 1501-1508), which limits the political activities 
of employees whose principal employment activities are funded in whole or in part with Federal funds. 
CERTIFICATION REGARDING FEDERAL LOBBYING 
(applies to subrecipients as well as States) 
Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements 
The undersigned certifies, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that: 
71 of 163

--- page 72 ---
8/17/2020 2:23:28 PM 
 
 
Page 12 of 17 
 
1. No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of the undersigned, to any 
person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, 
an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding 
of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of 
any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any 
Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement; 
2. If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for 
influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer 
or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal contract, 
grant, loan, or cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, 
"Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying," in accordance with its instructions; 
3. The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award documents for 
all sub-award at all tiers (including subcontracts, subgrants, and contracts under grant, loans, and cooperative 
agreements) and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose accordingly. 
 
This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction was 
made or entered into. Submission of this certification is a prerequisite for making or entering into this 
transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required certification 
shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.  
 
RESTRICTION ON STATE LOBBYING  
(applies to subrecipients as well as States)  
None of the funds under this program will be used for any activity specifically designed to urge or influence a 
State or local legislator to favor or oppose the adoption of any specific legislative proposal pending before any 
State or local legislative body. Such activities include both direct and indirect (e.g., "grassroots") lobbying 
activities, with one exception. This does not preclude a State official whose salary is supported with NHTSA 
funds from engaging in direct communications with State or local legislative officials, in accordance with 
customary State practice, even if such communications urge legislative officials to favor or oppose the adoption 
of a specific pending legislative proposal.  
 
CERTIFICATION REGARDING DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION  
(applies to subrecipients as well as States)  
Instructions for Primary Tier Participant Certification (States)  
1. By signing and submitting this proposal, the prospective primary tier participant is providing the certification 
set out below and agrees to comply with the requirements of 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200.  
 
2. The inability of a person to provide the certification required below will not necessarily result in denial of 
participation in this covered transaction. The prospective primary tier participant shall submit an explanation of 
why it cannot provide the certification set out below. The certification or explanation will be considered in 
connection with the department or agency's determination whether to enter into this transaction. However, 
failure of the prospective primary tier participant to furnish a certification or an explanation shall disqualify such 
person from participation in this transaction.  
 
3. The certification in this clause is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when the 
department or agency determined to enter into this transaction. If it is later determined that the prospective 
primary tier participant knowingly rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to other remedies available to 
the Federal Government, the department or agency may terminate this transaction for cause or default or may 
pursue suspension or debarment.  
 
4. The prospective primary tier participant shall provide immediate written notice to the department or agency to 
which this proposal is submitted if at any time the prospective primary tier participant learns its certification was 
erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances. 
 
5. The terms covered transaction, civil judgment, debarment, suspension, ineligible, participant, person, 
principal, and voluntarily excluded, as used in this clause, are defined in 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200. You may 
contact the department or agency to which this proposal is being submitted for assistance in obtaining a copy of 
those regulations.  
72 of 163

--- page 73 ---
8/17/2020 2:23:28 PM 
 
 
Page 13 of 17 
 
 
6. The prospective primary tier participant agrees by submitting this proposal that, should the proposed covered 
transaction be entered into, it shall not knowingly enter into any lower tier covered transaction with a person 
who is proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred, suspended, declared ineligible, or 
voluntarily excluded from participation in this covered transaction, unless authorized by the department or 
agency entering into this transaction.  
 
7. The prospective primary tier participant further agrees by submitting this proposal that it will include the 
clause titled “Instructions for Lower Tier Participant Certification” including the "Certification Regarding 
Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion—Lower Tier Covered Transaction,” provided by 
the department or agency entering into this covered transaction, without modification, in all lower tier covered 
transactions and in all solicitations for lower tier covered transactions and will require lower tier participants to 
comply with 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200.  
 
8. A participant in a covered transaction may rely upon a certification of a prospective participant in a lower tier 
covered transaction that it is not proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred, 
suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from the covered transaction, unless it knows that the certification 
is erroneous. A participant is responsible for ensuring that its principals are not suspended, debarred, or 
otherwise ineligible to participate in covered transactions. To verify the eligibility of its principals, as well as the 
eligibility of any prospective lower tier participants, each participant may, but is not required to, check the 
System for Award Management Exclusions website (https://www.sam.gov/).  
 
9. Nothing contained in the foregoing shall be construed to require establishment of a system of records in 
order to render in good faith the certification required by this clause. The knowledge and information of a 
participant is not required to exceed that which is normally possessed by a prudent person in the ordinary 
course of business dealings.  
 
10. Except for transactions authorized under paragraph 6 of these instructions, if a participant in a covered 
transaction knowingly enters into a lower tier covered transaction with a person who is proposed for debarment 
under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, suspended, debarred, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in 
this transaction, in addition to other remedies available to the Federal government, the department or agency 
may terminate the transaction for cause or default. 
 
Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters-Primary Tier Covered 
Transactions  
 
(1) The prospective primary tier participant certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief, that it and its 
principals:  
 
(a) Are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded 
from participating in covered transactions by any Federal department or agency;  
 
(b) Have not within a three-year period preceding this proposal been convicted of or had a civil judgment 
rendered against them for commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to 
obtain, or performing a public (Federal, State or local) transaction or contract under a public transaction; 
violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, 
falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, or receiving stolen property;  
 
(c) Are not presently indicted for or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity (Federal, 
State or Local) with commission of any of the offenses enumerated in paragraph (1)(b) of this certification; and  
 
(d) Have not within a three-year period preceding this application/proposal had one or more public transactions 
(Federal, State, or local) terminated for cause or default.  
 
(2) Where the prospective primary tier participant is unable to certify to any of the Statements in this 
certification, such prospective participant shall attach an explanation to this proposal.  
Instructions for Lower Tier Participant Certification  
 
73 of 163

--- page 74 ---
8/17/2020 2:23:28 PM 
 
 
Page 14 of 17 
 
1. By signing and submitting this proposal, the prospective lower tier participant is providing the certification set 
out below and agrees to comply with the requirements of 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200.  
 
2. The certification in this clause is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this 
transaction was entered into. If it is later determined that the prospective lower tier participant knowingly 
rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to other remedies available to the Federal government, the 
department or agency with which this transaction originated may pursue available remedies, including 
suspension or debarment.  
 
3. The prospective lower tier participant shall provide immediate written notice to the person to which this 
proposal is submitted if at any time the prospective lower tier participant learns that its certification was 
erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances.  
 
4. The terms covered transaction, civil judgment, debarment, suspension, ineligible, participant, person, 
principal, and voluntarily excluded, as used in this clause, are defined in 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200. You may 
contact the person to whom this proposal is submitted for assistance in obtaining a copy of those regulations. 
 
5. The prospective lower tier participant agrees by submitting this proposal that, should the proposed covered 
transaction be entered into, it shall not knowingly enter into any lower tier covered transaction with a person 
who is proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred, suspended, declared ineligible, or 
voluntarily excluded from participation in this covered transaction, unless authorized by the department or 
agency with which this transaction originated.  
 
6. The prospective lower tier participant further agrees by submitting this proposal that it will include the clause 
titled “Instructions for Lower Tier Participant Certification” including the "Certification Regarding Debarment, 
Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion – Lower Tier Covered Transaction," without modification, in all 
lower tier covered transactions and in all solicitations for lower tier covered transactions and will require lower 
tier participants to comply with 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200.  
 
7. A participant in a covered transaction may rely upon a certification of a prospective participant in a lower tier 
covered transaction that it is not proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred, 
suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from the covered transaction, unless it knows that the certification 
is erroneous. A participant is responsible for ensuring that its principals are not suspended, debarred, or 
otherwise ineligible to participate in covered transactions. To verify the eligibility of its principals, as well as the 
eligibility of any prospective lower tier participants, each participant may, but is not required to, check the 
System for Award Management Exclusions website (https://www.sam.gov/).  
 
8. Nothing contained in the foregoing shall be construed to require establishment of a system of records in 
order to render in good faith the certification required by this clause. The knowledge and information of a 
participant is not required to exceed that which is normally possessed by a prudent person in the ordinary 
course of business dealings.  
 
9. Except for transactions authorized under paragraph 5 of these instructions, if a participant in a covered 
transaction knowingly enters into a lower tier covered transaction with a person who is proposed for debarment 
under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, suspended, debarred, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in 
this transaction, in addition to other remedies available to the Federal government, the department or agency 
with which this transaction originated may pursue available remedies, including suspension or debarment.  
 
Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion -- Lower Tier Covered 
Transactions:  
 
1. The prospective lower tier participant certifies, by submission of this proposal, that neither it nor its principals 
is presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from 
participating in covered transactions by any Federal department or agency.  
 
2. Where the prospective lower tier participant is unable to certify to any of the statements in this certification, 
such prospective participant shall attach an explanation to this proposal. 
 
74 of 163

--- page 75 ---
8/17/2020 2:23:28 PM 
 
 
Page 15 of 17 
 
BUY AMERICA ACT  
(applies to subrecipients as well as States)  
The State and each subrecipient will comply with the Buy America requirement (23 U.S.C. 313) when 
purchasing items using Federal funds. Buy America requires a State, or subrecipient, to purchase with Federal 
funds only steel, iron and manufactured products produced in the United States, unless the Secretary of 
Transportation determines that such domestically produced items would be inconsistent with the public interest, 
that such materials are not reasonably available and of a satisfactory quality, or that inclusion of domestic 
materials will increase the cost of the overall project contract by more than 25 percent. In order to use Federal 
funds to purchase foreign produced items, the State must submit a waiver request that provides an adequate 
basis and justification for approval by the Secretary of Transportation.  
 
PROHIBITION ON USING GRANT FUNDS TO CHECK FOR HELMET USAGE  
(applies to subrecipients as well as States)  
The State and each subrecipient will not use 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 grant funds for programs to check helmet 
usage or to create checkpoints that specifically target motorcyclists.  
 
POLICY ON SEAT BELT USE  
In accordance with Executive Order 13043, Increasing Seat Belt Use in the United States, dated April 16, 1997, 
the Grantee is encouraged to adopt and enforce on-the-job seat belt use policies and programs for its 
employees when operating company-owned, rented, or personally-owned vehicles. The National Highway 
Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) is responsible for providing leadership and guidance in support of this 
Presidential initiative. For information and resources on traffic safety programs and policies for employers, 
please contact the Network of Employers for Traffic Safety (NETS), a public-private partnership dedicated to 
improving the traffic safety practices of employers and employees. You can download information on seat belt 
programs, costs of motor vehicle crashes to employers, and other traffic safety initiatives at 
www.trafficsafety.org. The NHTSA website (www.nhtsa.gov) also provides information on statistics, campaigns, 
and program evaluations and references.  
 
POLICY ON BANNING TEXT MESSAGING WHILE DRIVING  
In accordance with Executive Order 13513, Federal Leadership On Reducing Text Messaging While Driving, 
and DOT Order 3902.10, Text Messaging While Driving, States are encouraged to adopt and enforce 
workplace safety policies to decrease crashes caused by distracted driving, including policies to ban text 
messaging while driving company-owned or rented vehicles, Government-owned, leased or rented vehicles, or 
privately-owned vehicles when on official Government business or when performing any work on or behalf of 
the Government. States are also encouraged to conduct workplace safety initiatives in a manner commensurate 
with the size of the business, such as establishment of new rules and programs or re-evaluation of existing 
programs to prohibit text messaging while driving, and education, awareness, and other outreach to employees 
about the safety risks associated with texting while driving. 
 
 
75 of 163

--- page 76 ---
8/17/2020 2:23:28 PM 
 
 
Page 16 of 17 
 
 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR ADDING OR UPDATING GEMS USERS 
 
 
1. Each agency is allowed a total of FIVE (5) GEMS Users.  
 
2. GEMS Users listed on this form will be authorized to login to GEMS to complete and submit Quarterly 
Performance Reports (QPRs) and reimbursement claims. 
 
3. Complete the form if adding, removing or editing a GEMS user(s). 
 
4. The Grant Director must sign this form and return it with the Grant Agreement. 
 
 
 
CURRENT GEMS USER(S) 
 
 
1. Craig Collom 
 
Title: Traffic Sergeant 
Media Contact:  Yes 
Phone: (650) 522-7742 
 
Email: ccollom@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
2. Julie Dalton 
 
Title: Admin Tech 
Media Contact:  No 
Phone: (650) 522-7612 
 
Email: jdalton@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
3. Shannon Hagan 
 
Title: Police Sergeant 
Media Contact:  Yes 
Phone: 650-522-7745 
 
Email: shagan@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
 
State of California – Office of Traffic Safety 
OTS-55 Grant Electronic Management System (GEMS) Access 
Exhibit C 
GRANT NUMBER 
PT21163 
GRANT DETAILS 
 
Grant Number:  
PT21163 
Agency Name: 
San Mateo Police Department 
Grant Title:  
Selective Traffic Enforcement Program (STEP) 
Agreement Total: 
$85,000.00 
Authorizing Official: 
Ed Barberini 
Fiscal Official:    
Richard Lee 
Grant Director:   
Craig Collom 
76 of 163

--- page 77 ---
8/17/2020 2:23:28 PM 
 
 
Page 17 of 17 
 
Complete the below information if adding, removing or editing a GEMS user(s)  
 
GEMS User 1 
Add/Change  
 Remove Access {{[] c12_es_:signer1}}   
 
Add as a media contact?  Yes  
No 
 
  
Name 
Job Title 
 
 
Email address 
Phone number 
GEMS User 2 
Add/Change  
 Remove Access  
  
 
Add as a media contact?  Yes No  
 
 
Name 
Job Title 
 
 
Email address 
Phone number 
GEMS User 3 
Add/Change  
 Remove Access  
 
Add as a media contact?  Yes No  
 
 
Name 
Job Title 
 
 
Email address 
Phone number 
GEMS User 4 
 Add/Change  
 Remove Access  
  
 
Add as a media contact?  Yes No  
 
 
 
Name 
 
Job Title 
 
 
Email address 
Phone number 
GEMS User 5 
Add/Change  
 Remove Access    
 
Add as a media contact?  Yes No  
 
 
Name 
Job Title 
 
 
 
Email address 
 
Phone number 
Form completed by:   Date:  
 
As a signatory I hereby authorize the listed individual(s) to represent and have GEMS user access. 
  
 
Signature  
Name 
  
Grant Director 
Date 
Title 
 
Craig Collom (Aug 17, 2020 14:25 PDT)
Craig Collom
Aug 17, 2020
Craig Collom (Aug 17, 2020 14:26 PDT)
Craig Collom
Craig Collom
Aug 17, 2020
77 of 163

--- page 78 ---
Grant Agreement - PT21163
Final Audit Report
2020-08-19
Created:
2020-08-17
By:
Trysh Strayhand (trysh.strayhand@ots.ca.gov)
Status:
Signed
Transaction ID:
CBJCHBCAABAATciiYMY1_dtI1fXgf_6rq753Zn6fyYga
"Grant Agreement - PT21163" History
Document created by Trysh Strayhand (trysh.strayhand@ots.ca.gov)
2020-08-17 - 9:23:43 PM GMT- IP address: 96.43.153.8
Document emailed to Craig Collom (ccollom@cityofsanmateo.org) for signature
2020-08-17 - 9:23:49 PM GMT
Email viewed by Craig Collom (ccollom@cityofsanmateo.org)
2020-08-17 - 9:24:32 PM GMT- IP address: 76.14.0.98
Document e-signed by Craig Collom (ccollom@cityofsanmateo.org)
Signature Date: 2020-08-17 - 9:25:56 PM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 76.14.0.98
Document emailed to Craig Collom (ccollom@cityofsanmateo.org) for signature
2020-08-17 - 9:25:58 PM GMT
Email viewed by Craig Collom (ccollom@cityofsanmateo.org)
2020-08-17 - 9:26:08 PM GMT- IP address: 76.14.0.98
Document e-signed by Craig Collom (ccollom@cityofsanmateo.org)
Signature Date: 2020-08-17 - 9:26:45 PM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 76.14.0.98
Document emailed to Richard Lee (rlee@cityofsanmateo.org) for signature
2020-08-17 - 9:26:47 PM GMT
Email viewed by Richard Lee (rlee@cityofsanmateo.org)
2020-08-17 - 9:48:03 PM GMT- IP address: 76.21.110.127
Document e-signed by Richard Lee (rlee@cityofsanmateo.org)
Signature Date: 2020-08-17 - 9:48:16 PM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 76.21.110.127
Document emailed to Ed Barberini (ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org) for signature
2020-08-17 - 9:48:18 PM GMT
78 of 163

--- page 79 ---
Email viewed by Ed Barberini (ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org)
2020-08-17 - 9:49:13 PM GMT- IP address: 76.14.0.98
Document e-signed by Ed Barberini (ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org)
Signature Date: 2020-08-18 - 4:13:50 AM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 76.14.0.98
Document emailed to Carolyn Vu (carolyn.vu@ots.ca.gov) for signature
2020-08-18 - 4:13:51 AM GMT
Email viewed by Carolyn Vu (carolyn.vu@ots.ca.gov)
2020-08-18 - 3:24:02 PM GMT- IP address: 104.47.65.254
Document e-signed by Carolyn Vu (carolyn.vu@ots.ca.gov)
Signature Date: 2020-08-18 - 3:24:16 PM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 134.186.23.239
Document emailed to Barbara Rooney (barbara.rooney@ots.ca.gov) for signature
2020-08-18 - 3:24:18 PM GMT
Email viewed by Barbara Rooney (barbara.rooney@ots.ca.gov)
2020-08-19 - 9:34:20 PM GMT- IP address: 104.47.65.254
Document e-signed by Barbara Rooney (barbara.rooney@ots.ca.gov)
Signature Date: 2020-08-19 - 9:35:15 PM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 74.46.253.92
Signed document emailed to Barbara Rooney (barbara.rooney@ots.ca.gov), Richard Lee
(rlee@cityofsanmateo.org), Ed Barberini (ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org), Trysh Strayhand
(trysh.strayhand@ots.ca.gov), and 3 more
2020-08-19 - 9:35:15 PM GMT
79 of 163

--- page 80 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3557
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
September 21, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Edward Byrne 2020 Justice Assistance Grant Program – Application 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the submittal of an application to the United States Department of Justice, Bureau of 
Justice Assistance, for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program for the 2020 local solicitation in the 
amount of $17,062; and if awarded, authorize execution of all required documents and appropriate funds to the Police 
Grants Budget Program.
BACKGROUND:
The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) program provides federal criminal justice funding to state and 
local jurisdictions to support a range of law enforcement programs. Applicants are limited to units of local government 
appearing on the 2020 JAG Allocations List. The procedure for allocating JAG funds is a formula based on population and 
crime statistics in combination with a minimum allocation to ensure each state receives an appropriate share. Sixty 
percent of funding is allocated to the states, and forty percent is allocated to local recipients. The City of San Mateo’s 2020 
allocation is $17,062. 
JAG has several primary purpose areas: law enforcement; prosecution and court; prevention and education; corrections 
and community corrections; drug treatment; planning, evaluation, and technology improvement; and crime victim and 
witness protection. Within these purpose areas, funds may be used for state and local initiatives, technical assistance, 
strategic planning, research and evaluation, data collection, training, personnel, equipment, forensic laboratories, supplies, 
contractual support, and criminal justice information systems. 
The Police Department has submitted for grant funds to cover the cost of several enhanced training opportunities for staff. 
This will include training to further develop officers’ performance and decision-making ability in high-stress situations 
where tactics involving de-escalation, crisis intervention, and use of force are necessary; as well as training to increase 
expertise in behavioral science as applied to police use of force cases to identify ways to improve future performance, 
training, policy, supervision, and equipment. 
The grant terms also require a portion of the award be dedicated to achieving compliance with the new statistics and 
reporting system that will be implemented by the FBI in 2021 – the National Incident Based Reporting System (NIBRS). This 
set aside will be used to support training for staff responsible for collecting and submitting crime statistics, to further 
understand the existing records management system and to ensure proper system set up to report NIBRS information.
Costs for these training activities are estimated at $10,000, with final actual costs determined once registration fees are 
known and a final determination has been made regarding the number of staff to partake in the training. Any remaining 
grant funds will be used to purchase Automated External Defibrillators (AEDs) for police patrol cars. Having quick access to 
80 of 163

--- page 81 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
an AED and incorporating these devices into the emergency dispatching process when a sudden cardiac arrest is suspected 
can help save lives. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
If the JAG grant is awarded, Council approval is requested to appropriate $17,062 into the Police Grant (Fund 20) budget. 
The JAG grant requires no matching funds and will result in no impact to the General Fund. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
Tricia Toomey, Business Manager
ttoomey@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7623
81 of 163

--- page 82 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2020)
APPLICATION TO THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE FOR THE EDWARD BYRNE MEMORIAL JUSTICE 
ASSISTANCE GRANT PROGRAM FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 2020 LOCAL SOLICITATION TO PURCHASE LAW 
ENFORCEMENT EQUIPMENT
WHEREAS, the US Department of Justice (DOJ), Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) 
Program provides funding to state and local government to support projects that improve or enhance law 
enforcement programs; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo is eligible to receive an allocation of $17,062 from the JAG program for 
2020; and
WHEREAS, the San Mateo Police Department has proposed to use its 2020 allocation for training and to 
purchase Automated External Defibrillators (AEDs) for police patrol vehicles; and
WHEREAS, the grant application has been made available to the City Council and to the public for a 
period of 30 days preceding this meeting.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE SAN MATEO CITY COUNCIL HEREBY FINDS and RESOLVES that:
1.
The City Manager or his designee, on behalf of the City of San Mateo, is authorized to submit an 
application for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program to the United States 
Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice Assistance, for $17,062 to purchase law enforcement 
equipment – 2020-H9051-CA-DJ.
2.
The City Manager or his designee is authorized to execute in the name of the City of San Mateo, 
the application and any documents required by the United States Department of Justice, Bureau of 
Justice Assistance, for the JAG program related to the acceptance of the grant funds.  
3.
The City Manager or his designee is authorized, if said grant is awarded, to accept and appropriate 
the $17,062 to the Police Grants fund.
82 of 163

--- page 83 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3568
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
September 21, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Radio System Maintenance – Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with Telecommunications Engineering Associates for maintenance of City radio systems for a term 
of five years at an annual cost of $51,041 and a total cumulative contract cost of $255,205; and authorize the Police Chief 
to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The Police Department oversees the maintenance contract for the City’s municipal government radio system, which 
includes all Police, Fire, and Public Works radios. The agreement covers all fixed radio equipment such as base stations and 
console equipment in the 9-1-1 Emergency Dispatch Center. The City’s options regarding this comprehensive level of 
service are limited. A critical factor is that the provider of service be thoroughly familiar with the County’s public safety 
radio systems. These systems require complex engineering and coordination to maintain optimum performance and 
dependability. Telecommunications Engineering Associates (TEA) has been performing maintenance services for the City 
on this equipment for the last thirty years, and staff is recommending execution of an agreement with TEA for a five-year 
term. 
TEA has the in-depth knowledge and experience with the law enforcement and fire radio systems throughout San Mateo 
County and provides maintenance and facilities management services to the majority of local agencies.  In recommending 
this agreement, staff has considered the experience of TEA, the quality of the work that TEA performs, the timely 
responsiveness of trained engineers and their swift attention to detail.  In addition, TEA has discounted their standard fee 
by 10 percent due to the long-term relationship.  Furthermore, TEA has agreed not to increase the per unit fee for any 
equipment item during the contract period. The City may terminate the contract at any time if TEA’s service is not 
satisfactory or if funds for telecommunications maintenance are not available. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funds for the City’s radio maintenance are included in the Police Department’s operating budget. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
83 of 163

--- page 84 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
Dave Norris, Police Captain
dnorris@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7681
84 of 163

--- page 85 ---
Telecommunications Engineering Associates 
 
-1- 
04/2020 
Agreement With 
Telecommunications Engineering Associates 
for 
Telecommunications Maintenance and Management Services 
 
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this 1st day of September 2020, 
by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing 
under the laws of the State of California ("CITY"), and Daryl D. Jones, Inc. dba 
Telecommunications Engineering Associates with offices at 1160 Industrial Rd. 
#15, San Carlos, California, hereinafter referred to as “CONTRACTOR”. 
 
 
R E C I T A L S  
 
 
A. 
CITY desires certain public safety telecommunications 
maintenance and facility management services hereinafter described. 
 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these services by 
reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and 
CONTRACTOR has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in 
the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this 
Agreement is as described in Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached 
and incorporated by reference. 
 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical 
accuracy and coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this 
Agreement.  CONTRACTOR shall, without additional compensation, correct or 
revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services 
described under this Agreement. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons 
necessary to perform the services of CONTRACTOR. 
 
 
85 of 163

--- page 86 ---
Telecommunications Engineering Associates 
 
-2- 
04/2020 
 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for 
the project. 
 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall 
render decisions pertaining thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in 
the progress of CONTRACTOR'S work. 
 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on 
July 1, 2020 and be completed on or about June 30, 2025. 
 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon 
submission of a payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the 
work performed.  In consideration for the full performance of the services set 
forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee pursuant to rates 
stated in Exhibit B, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR fees are based on the itemized list of equipment set forth 
in Exhibit A.   
 
 
SECTION 6 – TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise 
have by law, CITY shall have the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend 
work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' written notice to 
CONTRACTOR.  CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement 
upon receipt of said written notice. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this 
Agreement are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for which 
they are made is executed or not. 
 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection 
with the performance of this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY 
to the public.  CONTRACTOR shall not make any such documents or 
information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
86 of 163

--- page 87 ---
Telecommunications Engineering Associates 
 
-3- 
04/2020 
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such 
release. 
 
 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not 
acquire any interest, direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would 
conflict in any manner or degree with the performance of the services under 
this Agreement. 
 
 
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required 
under this Agreement, CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an 
independent contractor as defined in Labor Code Section 3353, under control 
of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the result 
is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an 
agent or employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected 
and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all 
claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONTRACTOR’s 
performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s 
sole negligence or willful misconduct.  CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. 
 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall provide and maintain: 
 
A. 
Commercial General Liability Insurance, occurrence form, with a 
limit of not less that $1,000,000 each occurrence.  If such insurance contains a 
general aggregate limit, it shall apply separately to this Agreement or be no less 
than two (2) times the occurrence limit. 
 
B. 
Automobile Liability Insurance, occurrence form, with a limit of not 
less than $1,000,000 each occurrence.  Such insurance shall include coverage 
for owned, hired, and non-owned automobiles. 
 
C. 
Workers Compensation in at least the minimum statutory limits. 
 
D. 
General Provisions for all insurance.  All insurance shall: 
 
 
1.  Include the City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed 
officers, employees, and volunteers as additional insureds with respect to this 
Agreement and the performance of services in this Agreement.  The coverage 
shall contain no special limitations on the scope of its protection to the above-
designated insureds. 
87 of 163

--- page 88 ---
Telecommunications Engineering Associates 
 
-4- 
04/2020 
 
 
2.  Be primary with respect to any insurance or self-insurance 
programs of City, its officers, employees, and volunteers. 
 
 
3.  Be evidenced, prior to commencement of services, by properly 
executed policy endorsements in addition to a certificate of insurance. 
 
 
4.  No changes in insurance may be made without the written 
approval of the City Attorney's Office. 
 
 
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal 
services of CONTRACTOR and cannot be transferred, assigned, or 
subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written consent of CITY. 
 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON 
 
 
SKILL OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto 
that CONTRACTOR is skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done 
under this Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to 
do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and CONTRACTOR 
agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by 
CITY does not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, 
covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance 
or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such term, covenant, condition, 
ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of any 
other term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach 
or violation of the same or of any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The 
subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or other money which may 
become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of 
this Agreement or of any applicable law or ordinance. 
 
 
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in an amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and 
in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the 
provisions of this Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney 
fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and 
regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It is the 
intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more 
88 of 163

--- page 89 ---
Telecommunications Engineering Associates 
 
-5- 
04/2020 
than $5000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the 
provisions of this Agreement. 
 
 
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and 
shall comply with applicable regulations governing equal employment 
opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its subcontractors shall 
discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or 
age, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the 
California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
 
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request 
that it be submitted to mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 
30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; 
in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one name from 
mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the California 
State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The 
mediator shall be selected by a "blindfolded" process. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party 
shall be deemed the prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal 
action without first meeting in mediation and making a good faith attempt to 
reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once commenced by a 
meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties 
but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the 
parties. 
 
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought 
against CITY in connection with CONTRACTOR'S services under this 
Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or is based upon 
CONTRACTOR'S wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for 
preparation for testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR'S standard 
hourly rates at the time of actual testimony. 
 
 
SECTION 20 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage 
prepaid, addressed as follows: 
 
89 of 163

--- page 90 ---
Telecommunications Engineering Associates 
 
-6- 
04/2020 
To CITY: 
 
City of San Mateo 
 
 
 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
 
 
 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
 
 
To CONTRACTOR:  
Daryl D. Jones 
 
 
 
 
 
Telecommunications Engineering Associates 
 
 
 
 
 
1160 Industrial Rd.  #15 
 
 
 
 
 
San Carlos, CA 94070 
 
 
                            SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
 
 
 
 
  UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between 
CITY and CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, 
representations, and agreements, either written or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by 
both CITY and CONTRACTOR. 
 
 
SECTION 22 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California 
and, in the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY and CONTRACTOR have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
                             CONTRACTOR 
 
 
_______________________________ 
         _________________________________ 
Chief of Police 
 
 
 
 
Daryl D. Jones 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
 
 
____________________________ 
City Attorney 
 
 
90 of 163

--- page 91 ---
Telecommunications Engineering Associates 
 
-7- 
04/2020 
EXHIBIT A 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF 
SERVICE AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT 
 
 
The following conditions or clarifications are included under the maintenance agreement, but not 
limited to: 
 
1. 
7x24-hour coverage will be provided on all fixed equipment indicated on Schedule A.  
An acknowledgement by telephone will be received within 30 minutes of a request for 
service.  The Contractor will verify the call for service has been received, provide 
immediate telephone consultation for the problem, if applicable, and provide an ETA.  
Response to emergency requests for service on equipment listed as 7 x 24 hour coverage 
will be within one hour.  Emergency requests are justified when a malfunction of 
equipment has a major affect on day to day operations.  An example of a justifiable 
emergency service request would be a major failure of the Zetron M4040 console or other 
system component resulting in the inability of the City’s dispatch center to operate.  High 
priority service requests will be responded to within 8 hours of notification.  An example 
of a high priority service request would be if the primary police dispatch channel failed 
causing all traffic to be moved to a secondary channel.  Non-critical service requests will 
be handled within 16 hours of notification.  Examples include console headset jack 
failures and reports of intermittent problems. 
 
2. 
All labor, travel, test equipment and tools to provide necessary repair will be provided at 
the expense of the Contractor.  Contractor shall furnish parts necessary to accomplish 
repairs up to $100 per failure occurrence and invoice the City for amounts over $100.  
Sufficient parts stock for critical components will be on hand locally to keep system 
downtime to a minimum. 
 
3. 
Preventative maintenance will be performed on all equipment.  Preventative maintenance 
is defined as the inspection of all equipment listed on attached schedules, to see that the 
equipment is working properly and is not in condition where it will cease to function 
properly during the term of the maintenance contract.  The cost of all time and materials 
charges for necessary repairs and replacement to be borne by the Contractor.  All fixed 
equipment will receive one preventative maintenance inspection (PM’s) annually.  
Scheduling of PM’s will be initiated by the Contractor and coordinated by the Contractor 
and Communications staff to minimize the impact on operations. 
 
4. 
Continual up-to-date training of the service personnel will be provided by the Contractor 
enabling technicians to keep abreast of operational changes.  All servicing and 
maintenance of radio equipment will be performed by a responsible person certified as 
technically qualified to perform such duties and possessing any applicable license(s) or 
permit(s).  In addition, adequate cross-familiarization training will be conducted to ensure 
the two-way radio technicians are capable of isolating failures associated with the data 
systems portion of the total communications system and assisting the Data Service 
Technician in resolving the failure (if applicable.)  Staff must be knowledgeable about the 
91 of 163

--- page 92 ---
Telecommunications Engineering Associates 
 
-8- 
04/2020 
San Mateo County coordinated Law Enforcement Radio System. 
 
5. 
Contractor must have current successful experience with complex systems, such as voted 
radio systems, the Zetron Model 4000 console equipment, and TCP/IP computer 
networks.  Contractor should have resources to support data communications equipment, 
including computers, printers, and data multiplexers. 
 
6. 
Information relating to level of system performance and status of maintenance will be 
documented by Contractor’s service personnel and will be available for review by City 
staff. 
 
7. 
The equipment inventory on the attached schedules reflects the City’s best and most 
current information.  Contractor will submit corrections as inventory information 
becomes available during the contract period.  The City may add or delete units to or 
from this Contract as new equipment is acquired, or as equipment is retired from service.  
Corresponding adjustments to the Contract payment amount will be made at the unit 
prices established in the Contract.  If a price is not established, new equipment 
maintenance prices will be established through negotiation or from the Contractor’s 
published rate sheet.  Charges for equipment deleted will cease as of the day service is 
canceled.  Charges for equipment added will commence as of the day service is 
commenced.  Such charges will be calculated and presented in a written proposal to the 
Communications Manager.  NOTE:  Adjustments for periods of less than one (1) month 
will be pro-rated on a daily basis based in a thirty (30) day month. 
 
8. The following equipment items and services are specifically excluded from this proposal.  
The following services may be provided on a time and materials basis. 
 
♦ Antennas – Base station antennas and coaxial cable at all sites. 
♦ Telephone handsets and headsets. 
♦ Computer display monitors (CRT and LCD) 
♦ Batteries 
♦ System relocation or design changes. 
♦ Installation of new equipment 
 
The maintenance program does not include costs for damage to equipment through 
physical abuse or Acts of God or terrorism.  When Contractor determines repair of an 
item is necessitated by physical damage or abuse, approval to proceed with repair must 
be secured from the City before any action to repair is undertaken.  Any such “above 
contract” charges incurred without prior approval of the City will not be valid.  Small 
system changes and equipment rearrangements will be done at no additional charge. 
 
9. 
The external connections to the system are:  (a) master logger recorder; (b) instant recall 
recorders; and (c) leased line telephone equipment.  This contract includes maintenance 
and analysis up to the respective terminals (equipment or modems) of these external 
systems. 
92 of 163

--- page 93 ---
Telecommunications Engineering Associates 
 
-9- 
04/2020 
 
10. 
System problems are not always caused by failures of radio equipment.  Trouble with 
complex systems can be attributed to problems with power, telephone lines, or 
installation craftsmanship.  The Contractor will promptly deal with these situations with 
no additional charge to the City.  “Finger pointing,” or blaming others for problems is not 
acceptable.  The Contractor will be responsible to resolve these issues on behalf of the 
City. 
 
11. 
It is understood Contractor’s personnel will need to periodically maintain possession of 
radio equipment which belongs to the City.  Contractor agrees to exercise reasonable care 
for the equipment, track the location of such equipment, and shall be responsible for its 
return to the City, or its replacement if lost. 
 
12. 
The City of San Mateo operates on a two-year budget, each fiscal year beginning on July 
1 and ending June 30.  Therefore, it is necessary to review the fees charged for services 
provided under this agreement in February of each year.  If adjustments in fees are 
required, the City will be notified, in writing, prior to February 15th.  No increase in fees 
will be made during any fiscal year, unless equipment is added to or deleted from the 
equipment itemization list. 
 
13. 
Contractor will guarantee that the rates listed on attached schedules will be in effect 
during the term of the agreement(s). 
 
14. 
Payment is due within thirty (30) days of the billing date, which shall be the first day of 
the month following service. 
 
15. 
Contractor will make recommendations for the deletion/replacement of equipment which 
is beyond repair, or unreliable for usage in a public safety environment. 
93 of 163

--- page 94 ---
Telecommunications Engineering Associates 
 
-10- 
04/2020 
MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR SERVICE 
 
The Contractor will make every effort to keep the equipment covered by this proposal in 
excellent working condition by using modern preventative maintenance techniques.  The goal is 
to prevent malfunctions, which would affect day-to-day operations. 
 
All labor necessary to accomplish preventative maintenance and repair will be provided without 
additional charge. 
 
 
FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES 
 
Contractor will make recommendations to the City when equipment needs to be replaced and 
offer suggestions about new products and equipment which can be used to enhance system 
performance. 
 
Contractor will assume the responsibility for recordkeeping of all special telephone circuits used 
for radio communications.  Contractor will notify the City within 15 days when unused circuits 
can be disconnected. 
 
Contractor will provide consulting/engineering services for any system or piece of equipment 
covered under this proposal without additional charge.  This includes consulting/engineering 
services to make system design changes.  Labor and materials necessary to accomplish the 
design changes are at additional cost. 
 
Contractor will write bid specifications for base station equipment when directed to do so by the 
City. 
 
Contractor will provide written reports on the status of the City’s communications system when 
requested by the City. 
 
Contractor shall assist the City in keeping FCC licenses up to date. 
 
Contractor will provide quality system documentation for the portion of public safety system(s) 
they are responsible for maintaining.  Documentation shall be neat and thorough and copies of 
the documentation provided to the City. 
 
 
 
94 of 163

--- page 95 ---
Agreement with Telecommunications Engineering Associates for
Telecommunications Maintenance and Management Services
September 1, 2020
Schedule "A"
PD-1  SYSTEM 
Quantity
Monthly
Monthly
Cost Each
Total
T-Band duplex base station
3
$165
$495
T-band voting receiver
3
$76
$228
Motorola Digitac comparator w/ power supply
1
$136
$136
Transmitter site-select relay system
1
$7
$7
CTI comparator display system
0
$18
$0
Total  >>
$866
PD-2  SYSTEM
Quantity
Monthly
Monthly
Cost Each
Total
T-Band duplex base station
3
$165
$495
T-band voting receiver
3
$76
$228
Motorola Digitac comparator w/ power supply
1
$136
$136
Transmitter site-select relay system
1
$7
$7
CTI comparator display system
0
$18
$0
Total  >>
$866
DPW   SYSTEM
Quantity
Monthly
Monthly
Cost Each
Total
VHF duplex base station
2
$158
$316
VHF voting receiver
1
$76
$76
Motorola Digitac comparator w/ power supply
1
$136
$136
Transmitter site-select relay system
1
$7
$7
CTI comparator display system
0
$18
$0
Desk set remote control
0
excluded
excluded
Total  >>
$535
ADTRAN T1 MULTIPLEXERS
Quantity
Monthly
Monthly
Cost Each
Total
Adtran Atlas 550 multiplexer and DACS
0
$125
$0
Adtran TA-850 multiplexer
0
$58
$0
Total  >>
$0
Telecommunications Engineering Associates
Page 1
95 of 163

--- page 96 ---
Agreement with Telecommunications Engineering Associates for
Telecommunications Maintenance and Management Services
September 1, 2020
Schedule "A"
ZETRON M4000 CONSOLE SYSTEM
Quantity
Monthly
Monthly
Cost Each
Total
IntegratorRD operator position
8
$140
$1,120
Touchscreen LCD computer display
8
excluded
excluded
M4048 card cage
1
$125
$125
M4048 redundant power supply
1
$65
$65
M4048 system traffic card
2
$55
$110
M4048 console interface card
8
$40
$320
M4048 dual channel control card
12
$35
$420
M4048 aux I/O card
2
$22
$44
M4048 radio/telephone headset interface
16
$15
$240
M4048 footswitch
0
$8
$0
Total  >>
$2,444
MISCELLANEOUS  EQUIP.
Quantity
Monthly
Monthly
Cost Each
Total
CDM monitor receivers
0
$18
$0
UHF T-band control base station 
0
$84
$0
Receiver multicouplers 
0
$12
$0
CCC disconnect timer system
1
$15
$15
NetClock
0
$50
$0
Total  >>
$15
SUMMARY
Monthly
Total
PD-1  SYSTEM 
$866
PD-2  SYSTEM
$866
DPW   SYSTEM
$535
ADTRAN T1 MULTIPLEXERS
$0
ZETRON M4000 CONSOLE SYSTEM
$2,444
MISCELLANEOUS  EQUIP.
$15
Monthly Total  
$4,726
Less 10% for 5 year commitment
$473
$473
Monthly Total With Discount
$4,253
Annual Total With Discount
$51,041
Telecommunications Engineering Associates
Page 2
96 of 163

--- page 97 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3577
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
September 21, 2020 
SUBJECT:
San Mateo Management Employees Association – Memorandum of Understanding Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the San Mateo Management Employees 
Association for a term through April 12, 2025. 
BACKGROUND:
The San Mateo Management Employees Association (SMMEA) represents approximately 100 employees in management 
and supervisory positions throughout the City. 
Negotiations with the San Mateo Management Employees Association concluded on July 17, 2020, and the membership 
subsequently ratified the proposed changes to their Memorandum of Understanding. Consistent with the direction 
provided by the City Council, negotiators for the City and the bargaining unit have reached agreement. These agreements 
include:
Term: The contract will be extended for 2 additional years, expiring on April 12, 2025. 
Salary: The bargaining unit will receive a 1.0% salary increase effective April 2, 2023, and a 1.0% increase effective March 
31, 2024. 
In the event that the City’s General Fund actual revenues for fiscal years 2021-22 and 2022-23 are greater than or equal to 
$141.4M and $144.6M, respectively, the City will reopen negotiations with the Association for potential compensation 
increases. The City’s ability to potentially provide additional compensation will also factor in expenditures, particularly 
those related to pension and healthcare costs, that are greater than expected. 
Deferred Compensation: Effective June 27, 2021, the City’s contribution will decrease from 1.50% to 0.50%. Effective June 
25, 2023, the City’s contribution will increase to 0.75%. The City’s contribution will return to 1.5% on June 23, 2024.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact in the current fiscal year for these recommended changes. The budget impact for fiscal years 
2021-22 and 2022-23 will be a total decrease of $761,914. Updated salary and benefit amounts for these positions will be 
incorporated into the 2021-22 and 2022-23 budgets.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
97 of 163

--- page 98 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution 
            Exhibit A - Tentative Agreement 
STAFF CONTACT
Teresa Abrahamsohn, Deputy Human Resources Director
tabrahamsohn@cityofsanmateo.org
650.522.7276
98 of 163

--- page 99 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2020) 
APPROVING AMENDMENTS TO THE MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE 
CITY OF SAN MATEO AND THE SAN MATEO MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION 
WHEREAS, the amendments are related to salary, term, and other pays; and 
WHEREAS, the parties have met and conferred, and have reached tentative agreement to amend the 
Unit’s MOU; and 
WHEREAS, the Unit has ratified the Tentative Agreement; and 
WHEREAS, no appropriation of additional funds to the Fiscal Year 2020-2021 Budget is necessary;  
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1. The amendments to the Memorandum of Understanding for the San Mateo Management
Employees Association, set forth in the Tentative Agreements attached as Exhibit A, are approved
and summarized as follows:
Term:  The contract will be extended for 2 additional years, expiring on April 12, 2025. 
Salary: The bargaining unit will receive a 1.0% salary increase effective April 2, 2023, and a 1.0% 
increase effective March 31, 2024.  
In the event that the City’s General Fund actual revenues for fiscal years 2021-22 and 2022-23 are 
greater than or equal to $141.4M and $144.6M, respectively, the City will reopen negotiations with 
the Association for potential compensation increases. The City’s ability to potentially provide 
additional compensation will also factor in expenditures, particularly those related to pension and 
healthcare costs, that are greater than expected  
Deferred Compensation: Effective June 27, 2021, the City’s contribution will decrease from 1.50% to 
0.50%. Effective June 25, 2023, the City’s contribution will increase to 0.75%. The City’s contribution 
will return to 1.5% on June 23, 2024. 
2.
The budget impact for FY2022 and FY2023 will be a total decrease of $761,914. Updated salary and
benefit amounts for these positions will be incorporated into the 2021-2022 and 2022-2023
budgets.
99 of 163

--- page 100 ---
Exhibit A

LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between the San Mateo Management Employees’ Association and the
City of San Mateo

The Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the San Mateo Management Employees’
Association (“Association”) and the City of San Mateo (“City”) is set to expire at the close of
business at midnight, April 15, 2023.

The City and the Association have agreed to extend the expiration of the MOU to April 12, 2025
and revise the language of Articles 7.4, 25.4, and 28.0 as follows:

7.4 Compensation Increases During the Term of this Agreement
Effective April 5, 2020, the Unit will receive an across the board increase of 2.5%. Effective April

4, 2021, the Unit will receive an across the board increase of 2.0%. Effective April 3, 2022, the
Unit will receive an across the board increase of 1.0%. Effective April 2, 2023. the Unit will
receive an across the board increase of 1.0%. Effective March 31, 2024. the Unit will receive an
across the board increase of 1.0%.

In the event that the City’s General Fund actual revenues for fiscal years 2021-22 and 2022-23 are
greater than or equal to $141.4M and $144.6M. respectively. the City will reopen negotiations
with the Association for potential compensation increases. The City’s ability to potentially provide
additional compensation will also factor in expenditures. particularly those related to pension and
healthcare costs, that are greater than expected.

25.4 Deferred Compensation for Members of the Bargaining Unit
Employees are eligible to participate in the City-offered deferred compensation 457 plans. The

City shall pay biweekly contributions of an amount equal to 1.5% of the employee’s base salary
into his/her deferred compensation 457 plan for all Association members. Effective June 27. 2021.

the City’s contribution shall be 0.50%. Effective June 25. 2023. the City’s contribution shall be
0.75%. The City’s contribution shall return to 1.5% on June 23, 2024.

Effective May 7, 2017, on a biweekly basis the City shall match up to an additional 1.0% of an
employee’s contribution into his/her deferred compensation 457 plan for all Association members.

Effective with the City’s change to the calculation of the FLSA overtime rate to exclude ‘pool
money’ (the City contribution to the cost of medical insurance premiums) from the calculation, for
employees in non-exempt classifications only hired on or before the effective date of the change,
the City shall make bi-weekly contributions of an amount equal to zero point nine percent (0.9%)
of the employee’s base salary into his/her deferred compensation 457 plan in recognition that ‘pool
money’ will no longer be included in calculation of the FLSA overtime rate. This contribution
ceases when the employee leaves the bargaining unit or moves into an exempt classification.

&nbsp;
100 of&nbsp;163


--- page 101 ---
28.0 TERM OF MOU

This MOU shall terminate as of 11:59 p.m., Apri}-+5.2923April 12. 2025. The existing and
unmodified rules, regulations, resolutions or ordinances relating to wages, hours and conditions of
employment not covered in this agreement for employees in this unit shall remain unchanged for
said period unless such changes are the result of meeting and conferring as required by law.

This does not preclude the City from increasing wages and benefits during such period as deemed
warranted by the City Council.

\
)
}

Dated: 7 [ A L202 |

FOR THE SMMEA FOR THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
Kevin Kobayashi, President Teresa Abrahamsohn,

Deputy Human Resources Director

ce: Casey Echarte, Human Resources Director
Shawn Mason, City Attorney
Janie Berry, Payroll Supervisor
Human Resources Staff

&nbsp;
101 of&nbsp;163


--- page 102 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  14
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 20-3558
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
September 21, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade Construction Services – Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the agreement with Sundt Construction, Inc. for services to construct the third package of 
the Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and Expansion Project for a Guaranteed Maximum Price of $379,880,747; 
approve a contingency reserve in the amount of $13,900,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the 
amendment in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo is currently under a Regional Water Quality Control Board Cease and Desist Order requiring 
improvements to its collection system and Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) to eliminate sanitary sewer overflows 
and unauthorized discharges of untreated or partially treated wastewater to San Francisco Bay. The Clean Water Program 
includes several capital improvement projects that are currently under design and are intended to comply with the Cease 
and Desist Order. Specifically, the WWTP Upgrade and Expansion Project (Project) consists of new facilities, including a 
headworks, primary clarifiers, secondary treatment basins, membrane filtration, and a dedicated wet weather treatment 
train. The design was completed by HDR Engineering (HDR). 
Due to the size and complexity of the Project and construction demand in the Bay Area, a Construction Manager at Risk 
(CMAR) delivery approach was selected and approved by City Council on May 16, 2016, in accordance with Section 
3.60.070(h) of the Municipal Code. City Council approved a professional services agreement with Sundt Construction, Inc. 
(Sundt) on January 17, 2017 to provide CMAR preconstruction services for the Project. Both HDR and Sundt worked 
collaboratively through the design process. 
City Council directed staff to work with labor unions and negotiate a Project Labor Agreement (PLA) for the construction of 
the Project in June 2018. The PLA was approved on January 22, 2019 and set requirements for Sundt and its 
subcontractors to employ craft labor and to comply with the collective bargaining agreements for each of the trades. 
To expedite the execution of the Project, construction began while HDR was still in the design phase. Three construction 
packages were developed, each with the following general scope:

Package 1: Mobilization activities; demolition; site preparation; mass excavation; perimeter shoring; dewatering; 
electrical upgrades; and stormwater management improvements.

Package 2: Foundation piles installation.

Package 3: Process facilities including a headworks; primary treatment; biological nutrient removal basins; 
membrane filtration; dedicated wet weather treatment; chemical storage and feed; odor control; and non-process 
facilities including an administration building and maintenance warehouse. 
102 of 163

--- page 103 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Sundt competitively bid the work to interested subcontractors who needed to meet the requirements of the PLA. It should 
be noted that all subcontractors on the project are signatory to the PLA. They submitted open book documentation and 
provided a guaranteed maximum price (GMP) for each of the construction packages, which were negotiated separately. 
On May 6, 2019, City Council approved a contract for Package 1 with a GMP of $33,098,178 and $1,725,000 in 
contingency. Package 1 is anticipated to be complete in June 2021. On May 4, 2020, City Council approved an amendment 
for Package 2 with a negotiated GMP of $17,716,049 and $1,645,000 in contingency. Package 2 is anticipated to be 
complete in January 2022. 
For Package 3, Sundt competitively bid the work except for the electrical scope. Due to a high demand for electrical 
subcontractors in the Bay Area and size and complexity of the scope of work, Sundt issued a Request for Qualifications for 
this effort, followed by a solicitation for bid. Cupertino Electric Inc. (CEI) was the only subcontractor to respond. They were 
vetted and pre-selected as the electrical subcontractor for Package 3. Based on the 100% design and selection of the 
lowest responsible bidders, Sundt submitted a GMP of $411.1 million - significantly higher than the previously estimated 
cost of $362.9 million. Sundt attributed the high cost to several market conditions including the on-going construction 
activities in the Bay Area that led to a lack of competition, the nature of the work itself (i.e. wastewater specialty work), 
and increases in material cost (e.g. concrete, electrical). 
The City began negotiations and a cost reconciliation effort on Package 3 in March 2020. The proposal was reviewed by 
staff and HDR first to ensure that it aligned with the scope of work presented in the design drawings and specifications. 
The Project team conducted comprehensive reviews and negotiation meetings with Sundt (and CEI for the electrical 
package only). Over the next following months, the team continued to drive additional cost reductions through value 
engineering items that maintained the objectives through efficiencies in delivery and means and methods. On August 17, 
2020, Sundt submitted a final negotiated GMP for Package 3 in the amount of $379.9 million. A total cost reduction of 
approximately $31.2 million was realized through the team’s collective efforts since March 2020. As part of this reduction, 
Sundt reduced its fee to 7.6% and is not assigning the industry norm of equipment and material purchase markups of 
items they are purchasing. This brings the total CMAR contract value for Packages 1, 2, and 3 to $430.7 million as 
summarized in Table 1. 
Based on the several months of rigorous review and negotiations, staff recommends approval of the amendment to Sundt 
to deliver Package 3 of the project for a GMP of $379,880,747. An owner contingency amount of $13,900,000 is 
recommended to cover potential unknown issues such as underground utilities, modifications, environmental compliance, 
extreme storm events, design errors and omissions, and owner-directed scope changes. The proposed contingency is 
approximately 3.7% of the CMAR contract value for Package 3. While typical contingencies can vary between 5% to 10%, 
staff believes the 3.7% to be an appropriate amount given the CMAR approach (i.e. contractor knowledge of the Project 
and lower number of anticipated change orders) and the overall risk assessment for the Project. 
Package 3 is anticipated to be complete in September 2024. Based on this construction completion date, it is expected that 
the City will be considered for an early actor status by the Regional Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB) through the 
third San Francisco Bay Nutrients Watershed Permit process. The early actor status would acknowledge the City’s 
commitment to building the Project and implementing a process that significantly reduces the nutrient load to the Bay 
ahead of many other wastewater agencies. The RWQCB has noted that as an early actor, the City would not be required to 
make further nutrient related improvements for the design life of the Project. 
Table 1. Total CMAR Construction Budget Summary 
CMAR Contract Value
Owner
Contingency
Total Construction Budget
Package 1
 $33,098,178 
$1,725,000
$34,823,178
Package 2
$17,716,049
$1,645,000
$19,361,049
Package 3
$379,880,747
$13,900,000
$393,780,747
Total
 $430,694,974 
$17,270,000
$447,964,974
103 of 163

--- page 104 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are currently available in Project No. 46T003 to award Construction Package 3. However, the total Project 
costs (inclusive of engineering, planning, design, permitting, insurance and construction) could be overbudget by 
approximately $17 million at completion (Table 2). 
The forecasted cost variance may be alleviated over the remainder of the Project by unspent CMAR and Owner 
contingencies and allowances encumbered in the three construction packages. In addition, staff has re-evaluated a 
number of sewer collection system projects that are anticipated to offset this cost overrun. Staff will continue to closely 
monitor costs and potential changes, and work to manage the overall cost impact within the approved Clean Water 
Program budget. 
Table 2. Total Project Cost Forecast 
Rounded Value
(in millions)
Total Project Baseline Budget 
$533
Current Estimate-At-Complete 
$550 
Potential Cost Variance 
          $(17) +/- 1
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The City prepared a Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) in accordance with the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (SCH No. 2015032006). Council on June 6, 2016, certified the PEIR. In accordance with 
CEQA, the Final PEIR serves as the primary environmental compliance document for the implementation of the Clean 
Water Program. The City prepared Addenda to the Final PEIR that was approved on July 16, 2018 (Addendum 1) and April 
15, 2019 (Addendum 2). This work is within the scope of the Project evaluated in the PEIR and Addendum.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Amendment
Exhibit A2 – GMP3 Submission
Exhibit C2 – GMP3 Davis Beacon Wage Rate Determination 
Att 2 – GMP3 Owner Contingency Risk Register  
STAFF CONTACT
Azalea Mitch, Deputy Director
(Jennifer Philips, Project Manager)
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7309
Brad Underwood, Director of Public Works
bunderwood@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7303
104 of 163

--- page 105 ---
1 
 
AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO THE AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND 
SUNDT CONSTRUCTION, INC. FOR THE 
WWTP NUTRIENT REMOVAL AND WET WEATHER FLOW MANAGEMENT 
UPGRADE AND EXPANSION PROJECT  
CONSTRUCTION MANAGER AT RISK CONSTRUCTION SERVICES 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State 
of California, and Sundt Construction, Inc. (“Contractor”), entered into an Agreement for 
Construction Manager at Risk (CMAR) Pre-Construction Services (“Agreement”) for the 
WWTP Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow Management Upgrade and Expansion 
Project on May 24, 2019; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, City and Contractor, wish to amend the Agreement to add scope and 
increase compensation. 
 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows: 
 
1. Article 3 – Construction Manager at Risk (CMAR) Responsibilities is 
amended to add paragraph “3.16 GMP-3 SCOPE OF PROJECT The scope of 
services for GMP-3 is set forth as Exhibit “A2,” City of San Mateo Nutrient 
Removal and Wet Weather Flow Management Upgrade & Expansion Project 
GMP 3 Submission prepared September 10, 2020, as attached and 
incorporated by reference.” 
2. Article 6 – Time of the Agreement is amended to add paragraph “6.10 GMP-3 
COMPLETION The services to be performed by the CMAR under this 
Agreement for GMP-3 shall commence and be completed as set forth in 
Exhibit “A2,” City of San Mateo Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow 
Management Upgrade & Expansion Project GMP 3 Submission prepared 
September 10, 2020, as attached and incorporated by reference.” 
3. Article 10 – Payment is amended to add paragraph “10.12 GMP-3 
PAYMENT Payment of the Agreement for GMP-3 shall be a fee not to 
exceed $379,880,747. The fee schedule is set forth in Exhibit “A2,” City of 
San Mateo Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow Management Upgrade & 
Expansion Project GMP 3 Submission prepared September 10, 2020, as 
attached and incorporated by reference.”  
4. Exhibit C – Davis Bacon Wage Rate Determination of the Agreement is 
amended to reference “Exhibits C, C1 and C2.” Exhibit C2 to the Agreement 
is attached and incorporated by reference.  
5. The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect. 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A2, GMP3 Submission 
Exhibit C2, Davis Bacon Wage Rate Determination 
 
 
105 of 163

--- page 106 ---
2 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
         SUNDT CONSTRUCTION, INC.  
 
 
______________________________ 
           ___________________________________ 
 
Brad Underwood, Public Works Director          Greg Ayres, Vice President  
 
Date:  ____________________  
           Date:  ____________________ 
 
           ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           ___________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
            
Ronald R. Stuff, Sr. Vice President & General 
Counsel  
 
 
 
 
 
 
          Date:  ____________________ 
106 of 163

--- page 107 ---
Exhibit A2: GMP 3 Submission 
 
Please use the following link for Exhibit A2: GMP 3 Submission 
107 of 163

--- page 108 ---
Exhibit C2: GMP 3 Davis Beacon Wage Rate Determination 
 
Please use the following link for Exhibit C2: GMP 3 Davis Beacon Wage Rate Determination  
108 of 163

--- page 109 ---
Attachment 2: GMP 3 Owner Contingency Risk Register 
 
Please use the following link for Attachment 2: GMP 3 Owner Contingency Risk Register  
109 of 163

--- page 110 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  15
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 20-3555
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
September 21, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Solid Waste Update and Rate Notification
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve no rate increase for the solid waste, recycling, and compost collection in rate year 2021 and use designated funds 
within the Rate Stabilization Fund to offset any revenue shortfall.
BACKGROUND:
The City Council establishes the solid waste, recycling, and compost collection rates annually, which cover the cost of the 
solid waste program. The total cost of the solid waste program includes the cost of the collection services provided by 
Recology San Mateo County (Recology), disposal and processing expenses, and agency fees that include the City’s Solid 
Waste and Trash Reduction Program. The Solid Waste and Trash Reduction Program is responsible for the City of San 
Mateo’s waste diversion and trash reduction efforts. 
The solid waste, recycling, and compost services are available to all residents and commercial businesses in San Mateo. 
Staff evaluates all options for setting the rates in the best interest of the City’s ratepayers. Recology is required to submit 
an annual compensation application, which includes its collection cost, disposal and processing expenses, and the fees it 
collects from each member agency each year. The South Bay Waste Management Authority (SBWMA) audits and approves 
the compensation application. The compensation application was also reviewed for accuracy by HF&H, LLC (HF&H), the 
City’s solid waste consultant, and City staff. 
Recology’s Compensation – Recology’s 2021 compensation application includes a one-time, service-level adjustment as 
allowed in its collection agreement extension and estimates its 2021 collection services expenses for the City will be 
$14,681,417. In the future, adjustments will be determined by applying the changes in several indices (e.g., Employment 
Cost Index, Fuel Index, and Consumer Price Index) to the approved 2021 fixed costs. 
Disposal and Processing Fees at Shoreway Facility – The materials collected from the City’s residents and businesses are 
delivered to the SBWMA-owned Shoreway Environmental Center (Shoreway). South Bay Recycling, LLC (SBR) operates the 
Shoreway facility under a separate contract with the SBWMA. SBR’s costs include operating the transfer facility, operating 
the recycling facility, disposal fees at Ox Mountain Landfill, processing fees for composting organic material at Newby 
Island and Grover Environmental, debt service payments for 2019 bonds issued to refund 2009 bond debt service and 
capital improvements at the Shoreway facility, the cost for management of the SBWMA, and the franchise fee paid to the 
City of San Carlos. Based on the compensation application, the City’s costs for disposal and processing services for 2021 
are projected to be $7,754,274. 
City Fees – The 2021 City fees include a franchise fee based on 4% of Recology’s net revenues; $600,000 for the 3rd Ave 
Landfill closure surcharge; $750,000 for capital projects related to the removal of trash to receiving waters; and 
110 of 163

--- page 111 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
$2,325,650 to fund the Solid Waste and Trash Reduction Programs. The Solid Waste and Trash Reduction Program 
supports the City’s efforts to meet the State of California mandates and all regulatory agency compliance requirements 
including: 
1)
A 50 percent diversion rate of solid waste going into landfill mandated by AB 939: 
2)
The State of California’s AB 341 goal of 75 percent statewide overall diversion of solid waste going into landfill   
by 2020; 
3)
The State of California’s SB 1383 establishing targets to achieve a 50 percent reduction in level of the 
statewide disposal of organic waste from landfill based on the 2014 level by 2020, and a 75 percent reduction 
by 2025; and 
4)
Provisions C.10 of the Municipal Regional Stormwater Permit requiring reduction of trash discharge by 80 
percent by 2019 and 100 percent by 2022. 
To date, the City is compliant with each of the above mandates except for SB 1386, regarding organic waste diversion from 
landfill. CalRecycle, the State’s regulatory agency, is in the process of determining the compliance performance measures 
for SB 1386, which will be enforceable in 2022. Proactively, the City is already working with the SBWMA and the County of 
San Mateo to meet the anticipated SB 1383 compliance requirements
Rate Stabilization Fund – A rate stabilization fund was created by Council during 2018 to offset the anticipated additional 
cost related to garbage collection services and any additional costs associated with a one-time service-level adjustment in 
rate year 2021 related to the Recology collection agreement extension. The rate stabilization fund will also help to offset 
any additional costs associated with market volatility related to recycling. There was a $1,300,000 excess revenue in rate 
year 2019 designated to be placed into the rate stabilization fund. 
Based on projected revenue and expenses for rate year 2021, the City estimates a structural deficit of approximately 
$800,000 if current revenue and expenses do not change.  A 3% increase in revenue for rate year 2021 would be needed to 
cover the increased cost of services and avoid the shortfall. 
With the fund balance anticipated to reach approximately $9.2 million at the end of 2020, staff finds there are sufficient 
existing reserves within the solid waste fund to cover the structural shortfall for the 2021 rate year.  Additionally, staff is 
currently working on a longer-term financial model that considers several important items, including: (1) appropriate fund 
reserve policies, (2) balancing rates between residential and commercial customers, and (3) anticipated future increases in 
cost of service.  Staff recommends no rate increase for the 2021 rate year and utilizing the fund balance to cover the 
revenue shortfall.  Doing so will result in a fund balance of approximately $9 million at the end of 2021. Staff will be 
presenting to Council on the longer-term financial model and requesting input on appropriate policies such that modified 
rates can be implemented for the 2022 rate year.
If the Council elects to increase solid waste rates by the 3% shortfall, a public hearing would be scheduled during 
November and a notification would be sent to all property taxpayers 45 days prior to the date of the public hearing stating 
the date of the hearing, the amount of and reason for the increase, and instructions how to protest the increase. If there is 
no increase or change to the solid waste rates, the public hearing and notification process is not required. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The program's revenue requirement will be covered without an increase to the solid waste collection rates using 
designated funds from the established Rate Stabilization Fund to offset the additional cost associated with collection and 
disposal to meet all state and regulatory compliance mandates.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This solid waste rate notification is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity 
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).
NOTICE PROVIDED
111 of 163

--- page 112 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Roxanne Murray, Solid Waste and Recycle Program Coordinator
rmurray@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7346
112 of 163

--- page 113 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  17
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 20-3623
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Attorney Department
MEETING DATE:
September 21, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Regulations on the Sale of Electronic Cigarettes, Flavored Tobacco and the Sale of Tobacco Products in Pharmacies – 
Ordinance Introduction
RECOMMENDATION:
Introduce an Ordinance to prohibit the sale of e-cigarettes and flavored tobacco products, and to prohibit the sale of 
tobacco products in pharmacies.
BACKGROUND:
In 2019, a group of San Mateo residents requested that the City Council consider the adoption of restrictions on the sale of 
flavored tobacco and electronic cigarettes (“e-cigarettes.”)  The group included Dr. Bonnie Halpern-Felsher, a Stanford 
Pediatrics Professor and expert in the public health effects of children’s use of e-cigarettes, or vaping.  On September 8, 
2020, Dr. Halpern-Felsher and other interested persons informed the Council of the significant adverse health impacts of 
the use of these products by the community’s teens and young adults.  The speakers requested that the City Council adopt 
regulations to prohibit the sale of e-cigarettes and flavored tobacco products.  In response to this testimony, the City 
Council directed staff to prepare an ordinance to enact regulations that have been enacted by the County of San Mateo.
Submitted with this report is an ordinance that incorporates the substance of the County’s regulations within the existing 
municipal code provisions regulating the use of tobacco. The ordinance contains the following key provisions:
[1]  the ordinance prohibits the sale of all flavored tobacco products, including those are allowed to be sold by SB 793, 
which was recently passed by the California Legislature;
[2]  the ordinance prohibits the sale of e-cigarettes within the City; and
[3]  the ordinance prohibits the sale of all tobacco products in pharmacies.
Most ordinances enacted by the Council go into effect 30 days after they are adopted.  This ordinance has been drafted to 
mirror the provisions of the county ordinances that banned flavored tobacco and e-cigarettes.  Both of these ordinances 
delayed enforcement for 6 months after their enactment.  The length of the delay in enforcement is a policy decision for 
the Council to consider.  Staff would suggest that the Council consider some delay to enable time for staff to conduct 
outreach and education on the new requirements to tobacco product sellers and pharmacies.   
BUDGET IMPACT:
This item will have no material impact on the City’s budget.
113 of 163

--- page 114 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Shawn Mason, City Attorney
smason@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7022
114 of 163

--- page 115 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Add Sections 7.40.120, 7.40.130 and 7.40.140 to Chapter 7.40 of the San Mateo Municipal Code and amend 
Section 7.41.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code to prohibit the sale of electronic cigarettes and flavored 
tobacco products and to prohibit the sale of tobacco products in pharmacies
WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Council has received expert testimony and finds that the use of electronic 
cigarettes by teens and young adults has increased significantly over the last few years and is now the tobacco 
product most often used by teens and young adults; and 
WHEREAS, the testimony indicates and the City Council finds that the amount of nicotine contained in 
these products far exceeds the amount contained in cigarettes and greatly increases the likelihood that teen and 
young adult users will become addicted to the products; and
WHEREAS, the testimony indicates and the City Council finds that the use of these products causes 
damage to the lungs and brains of teens and young adult users; and
WHEREAS, the testimony indicates and the City Council finds that flavored tobacco products have 
become prevalent and have the effect of increasing the use of tobacco products by teens and young adults; and
WHEREAS, the testimony indicates and the City Council finds that teens and young adults frequently 
purchase tobacco products from brick and mortar retail establishments (including pharmacies) and that age 
restrictions have not prevented the ready access to tobacco products, including electronic cigarettes and 
flavored tobacco; and
WHEREAS, the City Council is mindful of the provisions of state law restricting the sale of flavored 
tobacco products but finds that these restrictions do not sufficiently protect teens and young adults from the 
harmful effects of electronic cigarettes and flavored tobacco products. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 7.40.120 “Sale of Electronic Cigarettes Prohibited” of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added 
to Chapter 7.40 “Smoking Control” as follows:
7.40.120 Sale of Electronic Cigarettes Prohibited
(a) No person or tobacco retailer shall sell or distribute any Electronic Cigarette.  
(b) For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall govern:
(1) “Distribute” or “Distribution” means the transfer by any person other than a common 
carrier, at any point from the place of manufacture or thereafter to a Person who sells the electronic 
cigarette or other electronic smoking device. 
115 of 163

--- page 116 ---
(2) “Electronic Cigarette” has the meaning set forth in Section 30121 of the California Revenue 
and Taxation Code, as may be amended from time to time. 
(3) “Person” means any individual, partnership, cooperative association, private corporation, or 
any other legal entity. 
(4) “Tobacco Retailer” means any person that engages in the retail sale or exchange of tobacco 
products (as defined in subsection (l) of section 7.40.020 of this Code). 
(5) “Sell”, “Sale” or “to Sell” mean any transaction where, for any consideration, ownership is 
transferred from one Person or entity to another including, but not limited to any transfer of title or 
possession for consideration, exchange or barter, in any manner or by any means.
7.40.130 Sale of Flavored Tobacco Prohibited
(a) The sale or offer for sale, by any person or tobacco retailer of any flavored tobacco product is 
prohibited and no person or tobacco retailer shall sell, or offer for sale, any flavored tobacco product. 
(b) There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tobacco product is a flavored tobacco product if a 
manufacturer or any of the manufacturer's agents or employees, in the course of their agency or employment, 
has made a statement or claim directed to consumers or to the public that the tobacco product has or produces 
a characterizing flavor including, but not limited to, text, color, and/or images on the product's labeling or 
packaging that are used to explicitly or implicitly communicate that the tobacco product has a characterizing 
flavor. 
(c) For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall govern:
(1) ”Characterizing flavor" means a distinguishable taste or aroma or both, other than the taste 
or aroma of tobacco, imparted by a tobacco product or any byproduct produced by the tobacco 
product. Characterizing flavors include, but are not limited to, tastes or aroma relating to any fruit, 
chocolate, vanilla, honey, candy, cocoa, dessert, alcoholic beverage, menthol, mint, wintergreen, herb, 
or spice. A tobacco product shall not be determined to have a characterizing flavor solely because of the 
use of additives or flavorings or the provision of ingredient information. Rather, it is the presence of a 
distinguishable taste or aroma, or both, as described in the first sentence of this definition, that 
constitutes a characterizing flavor. 
(2) "Constituent" means any ingredient, substance, chemical, or compound, other than tobacco, 
water, or reconstituted tobacco sheet that is added by the manufacturer to a tobacco product during 
the processing, manufacture, or packing of the tobacco product. 
(3) "Distinguishable" means perceivable by either the sense of smell or taste. 
(4) "Flavored tobacco product" means any tobacco product that contains a constituent that 
imparts a characterizing flavor. 
116 of 163

--- page 117 ---
(5) "Labeling" means written, printed, pictorial, or graphic matter upon any tobacco product or 
any of its packaging. 
(6) "Packaging" means a pack, box, carton, or container of any kind or, if no other container, any 
wrapping (including cellophane) in which a tobacco product is sold, or offered for sale, to a consumer. 
(7) “Tobacco product” is defined as set forth in subsection (l) of Section 7.40.020 of this Code. 
(8) ”Tobacco Retailer” means any person that engages in the retail sale or exchange of tobacco 
products.
7.40.140 Sale of Tobacco Products in Pharmacies Prohibited
(a) No pharmacy or pharmacy employee or agent shall sell or offer for sale any tobacco product.
(b) No new tobacco retailer permit may be issued to a pharmacy under Chapter 7.41 of this Code. 
(c) No existing tobacco retailer permit issued under Chapter 7.41 of this Code may be renewed by a 
pharmacy. 
(d) For the purposes of this section "pharmacy" means any retail establishment in which the profession 
of pharmacy is practiced by a pharmacist licensed by the State of California in accordance with the Business and 
Professions Code and where prescription pharmaceuticals are offered for sale, regardless of whether the retail 
establishment sells other retail goods in addition to prescription pharmaceuticals. 
Section 2. Subsection (a) of Section 7.41.070 “Suspension of Permit” of the San Mateo Municipal Code is 
amended as follows
(a) Grounds for Suspension. A tobacco retailer's permit may be suspended, as set forth below in 
subdivision (b), by the Director upon a finding, after notice and opportunity to be heard, that either of the 
following occurred:
(1) After the permit was issued it was determined that the application for the permit is 
incomplete or inaccurate.
(2) The permittee or his or her agent has violated any provision of this chapter or any City, 
federal, or state tobacco-related law.
Section 3. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
section 21065, this action is not a project because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment.
Section 4. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
117 of 163

--- page 118 ---
Section 5. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 6. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective on April 5, 2021.
118 of 163

--- page 119 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  18
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 20-3624
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Attorney Department
MEETING DATE:
September 21, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Measure R and Measure Y – Public Education Effort
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide direction on efforts to educate the public on general plan ballot measures. 
BACKGROUND:
In 1991, San Mateo voters enacted Measure H.  This measure amended the City’s general plan to reduce height limits and 
building density and intensity limits.  The measure also amended the plan to add a policy requiring the City to adopt and 
implement an inclusionary housing program.  By its terms, Measure H would have expired at the end of 2005.
In 2004, the voters passed Measure P.  This measure was proposed by the City Council.  Measure P made some minor 
revisions to the policies enacted by Measure H and extended the expiration date of these policies until the end of 2020.  
The November 2020 ballot will contain two measures, Measure R and Measure Y, that, if enacted, would modify the 
general plan policies enacted by Measure P.  Measure Y was placed on the ballot by petition signed by registered voters.  
Measure R was placed on the ballot by the City Council when the signature gathering efforts of its sponsors were 
interrupted by the Novel Coronavirus pandemic.  
At the last City Council meeting, Council members expressed concern about the level of understanding in the community 
about the two measures and their respective legal effects.  The Council directed staff to consider actions that the City 
could take to educate the public on Measure R and Y and how the passage of one or the other, or both, would affect the 
San Mateo General Plan.  The Council directed staff to report back to the Council at its September 21st meeting.
State law limits the City’s ability to communicate with the public about local ballot measures.  The basic rule is that the City 
may not use public resources to campaign for or against a ballot measure.  However, this rule does not prohibit all 
communications related to ballot measures.  Local governments may provide factual, objective analysis about the effects 
of a measure to educate voters and to help them make an informed decision.  
Staff has received a number of inquiries from interested members of the public about the effect of these measures.  Staff 
proposes to prepare a Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) document to be added to City’s webpage.  This document will 
include the questions and answers staff has received to date and can be modified over time to address questions 
presented after initial publication.  A copy of the initial FAQ document is attached for the Council’s review.
An agenda item has been scheduled for the September 21st Council meeting to provide the Council will the opportunity to 
consider this proposal and to provide direction to staff on any additional measures the Council deems appropriate.
  
119 of 163

--- page 120 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
This effort will have no impact on the City's budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - FAQ
STAFF CONTACT
Shawn Mason, City Attorney
smason@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7022
120 of 163

--- page 121 ---
Frequently Asked Questions About Ballot Measures R and Y
How many votes are required to pass the measures?
A simple majority of the votes cast is required to pass the measures.
What happens if both measures are approved by the voters?
The measure receiving the highest number of yes votes will control.
If Measure R passes, will the City Council have the authority to increase the current general plan height 
and density limits without voter approval?
If Measure R passes, the City Council will have the authority to amend the general plan to increase the 
heights limits and residential density limits in the current general plan in certain areas designated in the 
measure.  In general, these areas are in proximity to the three Caltrain stations located within the City.  
Measure R does not authorize the City Council to increase heights and densities above the current 
general plan limits outside these designated areas without voter approval.  Before the City Council takes 
such actions it would be required to prepare and consider environmental analysis of any proposed 
general plan amendments and would have to provide  public hearings before the Planning Commission 
and the City Council on any proposed changes.
If Measure Y passes, will the City Council have the authority to increase the current general plan height 
and density limits without voter approval?
If Measure Y passes, the City Council will not have the authority to increase the height and density limits 
in the current general plan without voter approval.
How does Measure R affect the current general plan inclusionary housing policy?
The current general plan inclusionary housing policy requires that development projects with more than 
10 units provide at least 10% of the units as affordable housing.  The current policy does not allow 
developers to pay a fee in lieu of providing affordable units, except for projects with 10 units or less, or 
for fractional units of less than .5.  Measure R would amend the current inclusionary housing policy to 
authorize the City Council to amend the current policy to provide alternative means of satisfying the 
inclusionary housing requirement.  The measure would allow, but not require, the City Council to 
establish an in lieu fee program as an alternative means of satisfying the inclusionary housing 
requirement.  If the City Council did establish an in lieu fee program as an alternative means of satisfying 
the inclusionary housing requirement, the fees collected through this program could only be used for the 
purpose of providing affordable housing within the City.
How does Measure Y affect the current general plan inclusionary housing policy?
The current general plan inclusionary housing policy requires that development projects with more than 
10 units provide at least 10% of the units as affordable housing.  The current policy does not allow 
developers to pay a fee in lieu of providing affordable units, except for projects with 10 units or less, or 
for fractional units of less than .5.  Measure R would amend the current inclusionary housing policy to 
authorize the City Council to amend the current policy to provide alternative means of satisfying the 
inclusionary housing requirement.  However, this measure would not permit the payment of in lieu fees 
as an alternative means of compliance with the inclusionary housing requirement.
121 of 163

--- page 122 ---
If either Measure R or Measure Y passes, could the City Council enact height limits, density limits, or 
inclusionary housing policies that are inconsistent with the measure?
The City Council could propose policies that are inconsistent those enacted by the successful measure for 
approval by the voters at a future election; however, the Council could not enact policies without voter 
approval.  
What happens if neither measure passes?
If neither measure passes, the height and density limits and the inclusionary housing policy enacted by 
Measure P will remain effect.  However, the City Council would have the authority to amend the general 
plan to increase heights and densities and to change or eliminate the inclusionary housing policy after 
December 31, 2020.  Before the City Council takes such actions it would be required to prepare and 
consider environmental analysis of any proposed general plan amendments and would have to provide  
public hearings before the Planning Commission and the City Council on any proposed changes. 
122 of 163

--- page 123 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  19
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 20-3631
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Department
MEETING DATE:
September 21, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Covid-19 Update #16
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an update on operational impacts and other City efforts related to COVID-19 and confirm rules and regulations 
issued by the City Manager acting as the Director of Emergency Services in response to declared emergency and confirm 
the need for continuing the local emergency.
BACKGROUND:
On March 4, 2020, the Governor proclaimed a state of emergency in response to the outbreak of respiratory illness due to 
a novel coronavirus now referred to as COVID-19.  As a consequence of this proclamation the City Manager, acting as the 
City’s Director of Emergency Services, was authorized to make and issue rules and regulations on matters reasonably 
related to the protection of life and property as affected by such emergency. 
 
On March 16, 2020, the County of San Mateo Health Officer issued an order to "shelter in place", effective March 17, 2020 
at 12:01 am. This order was extended and amended several times between March 17th and June 17th, when the County 
Health Officer lifted the local shelter-in-place order to align San Mateo County with the State of California’s shelter-in-
place order.  At that time, businesses allowed to operate and activities allowed to occur became subject to the State’s 
orders, with some additional local guidance provided by the County’s Health Officer. 
 
The City Council also declared a local health emergency on March 16th.  In addition to positioning the City for potential 
mutual aid and cost recovery opportunities, the emergency proclamation also provides the City Manager broader 
authority to be able to expeditiously address issues related to the emergency.  With that said, actions taken by the City 
Manager outside of the general authority of the duties provided for in the City Charter are subject to confirmation by 
Council as soon as practicable.   
 
On August 28th, the State announced revised criteria for loosening and tightening restrictions on businesses and activities 
under its new framework for reducing COVID-19 called “Blueprint for a Safer Economy.”  This new framework went into 
effect on August 31st, and as of the publishing of this agenda report, San Mateo County remains in the purple tier.  This 
means there is continued widespread COVID-19 transmission risk locally.  The continued risk of widespread COVID-19 
transmission necessitates the continued exercise of extraordinary emergency powers to respond to the impacts of this 
public health crisis.  Staff requests that the City Council explicitly confirm the need for continuing the declared local 
emergency. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budge impact for receiving this informational report.
123 of 163

--- page 124 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Drew Corbett, City Manager
dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7002
124 of 163

--- page 125 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  16
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 20-3572
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
September 21, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Outdoor Dining in Public Right of Way – Extension
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the extension of the temporary street closures and use of the public right-of-way for 
outdoor dining through March 1, 2021 and approve the updated outdoor dining guidelines; adopt a Resolution for an 
additional appropriation of $111,500 to the City Manager’s Office 2020-21 operating budget; authorize the City Manager 
to procure water-filled barricades for a cost not to exceed $181,500 from D&M traffic services; and provide guidance on 
longer term outdoor dining installations.
BACKGROUND:
In June 2020, the City Council authorized the use of on-street parking spaces and approved the temporary closure of 
portions of B Street and Baldwin in order to accommodate outdoor dining. The authorization for the street closures is set 
to expire on October 19, 2020. The guidelines for the use of the on-street parking spaces for outdoor dining parklets had a 
planned end date of December 1, 2020. Staff initially believed that with the changing seasons, outdoor dining would be 
less popular. However, as the pandemic has continued and outdoor dining remains the only option for restaurants, the 
City may want to consider a possible extension of these timelines until March 1, 2021.
Restaurant Survey
Staff issued a survey to the restaurants to check in on their use of the outdoor parklets and their preferences for the 
timeframe that they wish to keep them in place. Staff received responses from 37 businesses including those located on 
the closed streets, those with parklets, and ones located in private shopping centers. Of those surveyed, the vast majority 
would like to keep their outdoor dining option in place at least through the end of the COVID health emergency. In 
addition, a significant number of the restaurants with parklets would like to continue having them even after the COVID 
health emergency has passed.  
Parklet Program
The City’s parklet program has been tremendously popular with both restaurants and diners. The adopted Outdoor 
Guidelines allow for the parklets to be in place through December 1, 2020.  Based on the restaurant interest in continuing 
the program, staff recommends adopting amended guidelines extending the timeline for the temporary parklet program 
through March 1, 2021. In addition, City Council direction is needed about whether staff should develop a more 
permanent parklet program that would allow for parklets to continue beyond the public health emergency.
The majority of the parklets have been created with barricades provided by the City that are rented from an outside 
vendor. The restaurants have provided the tables and chairs and in some cases umbrellas, shade canopies, and decorative 
elements such as plants.  Staff is currently working to enhance the safety measures in these parklets due to some recent 
accidents that damaged some Downtown parklets, though thankfully no one was injured. Staff has researched the cost of 
125 of 163

--- page 126 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
replacing the metal barricades used to delineate the outer length of the parklets with water-filled barricades (which are 
currently used only at the corners). The cost to lease the metal ones is roughly $70,000 for the next 6-months. Switching to 
all water-filled barricades will cost between $155,000 and $181,500, a net increase of up to $111,500. The City Manager’s 
Office does not have sufficient funding in its budget to cover this expense without an additional budget appropriation.
Some restaurants have started constructing customized parklets within the barricades provided by the City. These 
customized spaces were not reviewed by staff prior to being constructed, despite that requirement in the published 
outdoor dining guidelines. Staff is in the process of developing standards for custom-constructed parklets that require key 
safety measures such as allowing for adequate site lines for cars and pedestrians, ADA access, storm water drainage, 
collision buffers, and structural integrity. These standards are being developed based on those adopted in other 
communities, such as San Francisco, which has had a parklet program for many years.  Many of the custom parklets that 
have been constructed do not meet the safety standards set by other communities and in additionally don’t comply with 
the State COVID-19 standards for outdoor dining. Staff is working with the restaurants to make corrections to them to 
meet basic safety standards. 
Staff recommends extending the term of the temporary parklet installations until March 1, 2021. After that date, staff 
recommends that the City no longer provide barricades for parklets. If restaurants want to have a parklet beyond that 
timeframe, they would be required to obtain a parklet permit to construct their own parklet, following the standards the 
City will be developing.  Currently during the COVID emergency, no fees are being charged for the parklet permits.  If 
Council desires to see parklets allowed beyond COVID, then staff recommends establishing annual permit fees. These fees 
will partially compensate for the staff time involved in approving them and for the loss of meter revenue. 
Street Closures
The current street closures include B Street between 1st and 3rd Avenue, a single lane of B Street between 1st Avenue and 
Baldwin, and a narrowing of Baldwin between B Street and North Ellsworth. The segment between 1st and 2nd Avenue 
receives the least amount of use since only a small number of businesses on that block use the space. However, staff 
determined that this segment needed to be closed if both the adjacent segments are closed in order to not create a 
confusing, and therefore unsafe, traffic pattern.
Staff recommends authorizing the extension of the street closure through March 1, 2021 in order to align with the term of 
the parklet extension. City Council direction is needed on whether to continue with all of the segments or to limit the 
closures to areas with the highest use. Additionally, City Council direction is needed on whether or not specific street 
closures should continue beyond the public health emergency and whether they should be seasonal or year-round. The 
City Attorney’s Office is still researching whether the State Vehicle Code would authorize a longer-term closure or seasonal 
closures.  In addition, staff will need to conduct a CEQA analysis of the impact of a more permanent closure (even if just 
seasonally), whereas the current temporary closure is exempt under CEQA.
City Council actions needed:
The following Council actions or guidance is needed:
1)
Provide guidance on which streets should remain closed through March 1, 2021.
2)
Adopt the resolution authorizing extending outdoor dining in the public right-of-way through March 1, 2021 and 
the revised Outdoor Dining Guidelines. 
3)
Provide guidance on whether a longer-term street closure or seasonal street closure after the public health 
emergency should occur and on which street segments.
4)
Provide guidance on if the City should use water-filled barricades for the existing parklets through March 1, 2021 
and if so, does the Council authorize the procurement and the additional appropriation of $111,500 needed to 
fund them?
5)
Provide guidance on whether the City should develop a program to allow for continued parklet installations after 
the public health emergency.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The rental fees for the barricades for the parklets and temporary street closures will cost the City roughly $70,000 to 
126 of 163

--- page 127 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
continue through March 1, 2021. These funds are being paid out of the City Manager’s budget from funds initially 
dedicated to special events.  If the City were to convert to all-water-filled barricades, the cost would increase to up to 
$181,500 for the same time period. In addition, the City will need to procure additional insurance to cover the 
continuation of the Outdoor Dining, which is estimated to cost $15,000. If the City converts to the water-filled barricades, 
an additional appropriation of $111,500 to the City Manager’s Office 2020-21 operating budget will be required to cover 
the expense.  These funds would be appropriated from the General Fund’s unassigned fund balance.
These costs do not include the lost meter revenue from the on-street parking spaces that are no longer available. 
Presently, over 230 metered spaces are being used for parklets. However, given that there is higher than usual parking 
availability in the City’s parking structures due to COVID-19, staff is hopeful that most customers are being diverted to 
those locations.  
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15301, the temporary street closure and adoption of guidelines for outdoor 
dining are categorically exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act pursuant to the exemption for “existing 
facilities,” because they involve a minor alteration to existing City streets. In addition, in accordance with CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15304(e), the temporary street closure and adoption of guidelines for outdoor dining are categorically exempt 
from CEQA because they involve a minor temporary use of land having negligible or no permanent effects on the 
environment.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution for Extension of Temporary Street Closures
Att 2 – Proposed Resolution for Additional Appropriation
STAFF CONTACT
Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager
kkleinbaum@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7153
127 of 163

--- page 128 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2020) 
EXTENDING AUTHORIZATION FOR TEMPORARY USE OF PORTIONS OF B STREET AND BALDWIN AVENUE FOR 
OUTDOOR DINING AND ADOPTING UPDATED GUIDELINES FOR OUTDOOR DINING 
WHEREAS, the Governor of California has declared a state of emergency due to the COVID-19 pandemic; 
and 
WHEREAS, restaurant interiors have been closed due to the pandemic; and 
WHEREAS, the County Health Officer has issued a health order that authorizes the re-opening of 
restaurants so long as social distancing is practiced and other precautions are taken; and 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo wishes to accommodate outdoor dining in the downtown area in order 
to enable restaurants to re-open with social distancing; and 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo adopted a resolution on June 29, 2020 allowing for temporary street 
closures through October 19, 2020; and 
WHEREAS, due to the continuing pandemic, the City now wishes to extend the temporary closure 
through March 1, 2021; and 
WHEREAS, Vehicle Code Section 21101(e) authorizes cities to temporarily close a portion of any street 
when the closing is necessary for the safety and protection of persons who are to use that street during the 
temporary closure; and 
WHEREAS, the City has adopted guidelines for the operation of outdoor dining facilities; and 
WHEREAS, the City wishes to update those guidelines; and 
WHEREAS, in accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15301, this temporary street closure and 
adoption of guidelines for outdoor dining are categorically exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act 
pursuant to the exemption for “existing facilities,” because they involve a minor alteration to existing City 
streets; and  
WHEREAS, in addition, in accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15304(e), this temporary street 
closure and adoption of guidelines for outdoor dining are categorically exempt from CEQA because they involve 
a minor temporary use of land having negligible or no permanent effects on the environment. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that: 
128 of 163

--- page 129 ---
1.
The temporary closing of the portions of B Street and Baldwin Avenue depicted in Exhibit A is
necessary to accommodate outdoor dining and for the safety and protection of persons engaged in outdoor 
dining. 
2.
The temporary street closure plans prepared by the City Engineer and depicted in Exhibit A to this
Resolution have been prepared in conformity with the City and Department of Transportation safety standards. 
3.
Substantial evidence supports the reasonableness of the plans with regard to public safety.
4.
The temporary street closure design is approved.
5.
The portions of B Street and Baldwin Avenue depicted in Exhibit A to this Resolution are closed to
vehicular and bicycle traffic through March 1, 2021. 
6.
Pursuant to Vehicle Code Sections 21103 and 22651(n), the City Engineer is directed to cause signs
to be placed at all entrances to the streets designated to be closed and provide notice that violators may be 
cited for a violation of the temporary street closure. Lettering on the signs shall be at least one inch in height. 
7.
Notwithstanding provisions in the San Mateo Municipal Code to the contrary, the City Council
hereby authorizes limited temporary expansion of existing restaurant uses in the specific areas of the public 
right-of-way shown in Exhibit A to this Resolution, which includes both shared outdoor dining spaces as well as 
outdoor dining spaces unique to the restaurants fronting those areas. 
8.
All the structures, facilities, equipment, and activity to accommodate the use of these areas must
adhere to the City’s Guidelines adopted by the City Council and attached as Exhibit B to this Resolution. 
9.
This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption and terminate at midnight on March
1, 2021, unless extended by Resolution of the City Council. 
129 of 163

--- page 130 ---
Exhibit A

puicn ag 2020 +
SqSHE VOID Nearmap, veil 20°F

Traffic Control Plan
Southbound S. B Street between
Baldwin and ist

Sy CELE [4] ]: fare 5.8

Vertical delineators
with pedestrian
barricades

Baldwin Parklet

[35N Type Ill Barricade
[9 ~Water-Filled Barricade

130 of 163


--- page 131 ---
Type III Barricade
Water-Filled Barricade
Proposed 12 ft Fire Lane
SEE ATTACHMENT A 
FOR INGRESS/EGRESS 
DETAIL
SEE ATTACHMENT A 
FOR INGRESS/EGRESS 
DETAIL
Traffic Control Plan
B Street between 1st and 2nd
&nbsp;
131 of&nbsp;163

--- page 132 ---
Traffic Control Plan
B Street between 2nd and 3rd
132 of 163

--- page 133 ---
ATTACHMENT A —INGRESS AND EGRESS DETAIL

Asphalt tape

Waterfilled barriers

Waterfilled Barriers unpinned to
allow for swinging motion for
Emergency Vehicle Access.

133 of 163


--- page 134 ---
jXC 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
GUIDELINES FOR 
EXPANDED OUTDOOR 
DINING 
DURING COVID-19 
EXHIBIT B
Revised September 21, 2020
134 of 163

--- page 135 ---
1 
 
  
Table of Contents 
Preface .......................................................................................................................................................... 2 
San Mateo County Health Officer Order ....................................................................................................... 2 
Temporary Outdoor Restaurant Dining Encroachment Permit .................................................................... 2 
General Guidelines for all Outdoor Dining Areas ......................................................................................... 3 
Sidewalk Dining Areas ................................................................................................................................... 4 
On-Street Parking Space Dining Areas (Parklets) .......................................................................................... 5 
Downtown Common Parklets: .................................................................................................................. 5 
Custom Parklets or Other Parklet Areas ................................................................................................... 5 
Private Parking Lot Dining Areas ................................................................................................................... 6 
For More Information: .................................................................................................................................. 7 
 
 
 
135 of 163

--- page 136 ---
2 
 
Preface 
The City of San Mateo has developed these guidelines for outdoor dining to assist our restaurant 
businesses in providing expanded seating capacity in the public right-of-way and on private spaces for 
in-person restaurant dining as allowed for by the State of California and San Mateo County COVID-19 
Health Orders (Health Orders). These guidelines are temporary in nature and will only be in place during 
this time of restricted restaurant operations or up until March 1, 2020. 
The City of San Mateo will be allowing temporary outdoor dining to occur on sidewalks, in public parking 
spaces, and/or in parking spaces in privately owned shopping centers. Specific guidelines for each of 
these locations are outlined in this guidebook.  
San Mateo County Health Officer Order 
Effective as of June 6, 2020, the San Mateo County Health Officer is permitting outdoor dining, subject 
to the requirements set forth in the Health Officer Order No. c19-5f- Appendix C-1. General 
requirements are listed below.   
• 
Operators are required to designate COVID-19 supervisor/person(s) in charge to ensure the 
implementation of the food facilities’ health and safety plan and Social Distancing Protocol 
(Appendix A). The designated COVID-19 supervisor/person(s) in charge must always be present 
on-site during business hours. 
• 
In addition to the cleaning and sanitary measures, tables must be arranged to ensure that no 
customer is sitting within six feet of any other customer at a separate table. Patrons at a single 
table are limited to no more than six, and they must be from the same household or living unit. 
• 
Lounge areas, like fire pits, can be occupied by multiple households or living units if six-foot 
distancing is maintained. Entertainment events are not allowed. 
• 
Facilities that open for outdoor dining must offer curbside pickup, takeaway, and/or delivery 
service alternatives. Lines for pickup or takeaway must be in a separate area from the outdoor 
dining area to prohibit patrons from unnecessarily accessing the outdoor dining area. 
• 
Alcohol may be sold to patrons in conjunction with a meal, but it may not be sold 
independently, and bar areas must remain closed to customers. 
• 
Patrons are required to wear a face covering except when sitting at a table. 
Temporary Outdoor Restaurant Dining Encroachment Permit 
The City has developed a no-fee streamlined encroachment permit application for temporary outdoor 
dining. The intent of this permit is to be temporary in nature and to be in place only during the Health 
Orders restrict restaurant operations up until March 1, 2020.   
A permit will be required only under the following specific circumstances: 
• 
Any restaurant providing alcohol service to their patrons. 
• 
Restaurants creating dining areas in public on-street parking spaces outside of the City-created 
common dining areas in Downtown San Mateo. This includes restaurants building any sort of 
custom structure for their outdoor dining area including platforms and/or railings. 
A permit is not required for any restaurant: 
136 of 163

--- page 137 ---
3 
 
• 
Providing sidewalk dining without alcohol service.  
• 
Using the common dining areas created by the City in public on-street parking spaces in 
Downtown San Mateo and not providing alcohol service.  
The following documents are required in order to process a permit for outdoor seating in the City of 
San Mateo: 
• 
Temporary Outdoor Restaurant Dining Encroachment Permit Application 
• 
Certificate of Liability Insurance and Endorsements (only required for restaurants providing 
alcohol service) 
• 
Site Plan diagram of proposed outdoor dining lay-out 
 
The Temporary Outdoor Restaurant Dining Encroachment Permit application is available on the City’s 
website  (https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3307/Outdoor-Dining). 
General Guidelines for all Outdoor Dining Areas 
The following general guidelines apply to all areas: 
• 
Adequate Clearance for Social Distancing. Any outdoor table and seating must maintain a 
minimum sidewalk clearance and pedestrian through zone of 6-feet from any physical obstruction 
to allow pedestrians to maintain adequate social distancing when passing by patrons seated at a 
table. The physical obstruction includes light poles, parking meters, fire hydrants, news racks, 
trees, or other barriers and entryways or display window of adjacent businesses, unless authorized 
by the adjacent business.  
• 
Seating Area Allowance for Social Distancing. The seating provided shall allow for patrons to 
maintain a minimum 6-foot social distance from the nearest group of other patrons seated in the 
same area.  
• 
Temporary Fixtures. Tables, seating, umbrellas, heating lamps, planters, platforms or flooring to 
achieve ADA compliance, and any approved physical barriers to mark the seating area are the only 
items permitted in the public right-of-way. These items must be designed to be weighted down for 
wind protection and be removable. Please ensure that the weights used do not create tripping 
hazards for pedestrians. 
• 
No Outdoor Food Preparation. Outdoor food preparation is not permitted. No heating, cooking or 
open flames are permitted in the outdoor dining space.  
• 
Alcohol Service. Restaurants and food establishments licensed by the State of California will be 
permitted to sell and allow on-premise consumption of alcoholic beverages. A Temporary Outdoor 
Dining Encroachment Permit is required for outdoor dining with alcohol service in the public right of 
way, which includes on the sidewalk or in parklets. The seating area for restaurants providing alcohol 
service must be physically separated from any adjacent outdoor dining areas of other establishments 
by a barricade or other means of separation. Alcohol service is only allowed under full-service 
conditions and alcoholic beverages consumed in the outdoor dining premises are not allowed to be 
provided in to-go containers. Establishments that serve alcoholic beverages in the outdoor dining 
area shall be required to meet all requirements of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board and any 
other federal, state, or local laws and regulations governing the sale and consumption of alcoholic 
beverages. Visit the ABC website for their specific COVID-19 regulatory updates.   
137 of 163

--- page 138 ---
4 
 
• 
Space Heaters.  Space heaters are permitted if they are an outdoor approved type, are located in 
accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations, and are located at least two (2) feet from 
the edge of any umbrella canvas, any foliage, or any other flammable object or material. 
• 
Site Maintenance.  Outdoor seating areas shall be maintained free of litter, refuse and debris. The 
area shall be scrubbed and mopped to remove any food or drink stains on a daily basis by the 
permittee. Such cleaning shall be in accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management and 
Discharge Control Program, which prohibits any discharge other than storm water into the storm 
water drainage system.  
• 
ADA Compliance.  Outdoor seating areas must comply with all requirements of the Americans 
with Disabilities Act (ADA) and provide sufficient clearance and walkway space to allow safe access 
and egress. 
• 
Tents or Umbrellas. Umbrellas and other decorative material shall be fire-retardant, pressure-
treated or manufactured of fire-resistant material. No portion of an umbrella shall be less than six 
(6) feet, eight (8) inches (eighty (80) inches) above the sidewalk. The use of tents in excess of 400 
square feet will require a Tent & Temporary Membrane Structures Permit from the San Mateo 
Consolidated Fire Department.  To request more information contact them at (650) 522-7900.  
• 
Hours of Operation. The outdoor dining areas shall adhere to the same approved ours of operation 
as the existing restaurant. 
• 
Safety Inspections. The City will be making periodic safety inspections and reserves the right to 
require adjustments or removal of any elements, if deemed unsafe. 
Sidewalk Dining Areas 
Sidewalk dining involves the placement of tables and chairs in the public 
sidewalk area. The City of San Mateo is allowing sidewalk dining to occur 
only where the sidewalk is wide enough to allow for pedestrians to pass by 
the outdoor seating while still maintaining adequate social distancing of at 
least 6 feet and when it complies with all ADA requirements.  
Businesses with adequate spacing to accommodate social distancing can 
temporarily use sidewalks for additional restaurant seating purposes. 
Areas that have adequate width to accommodate sidewalk dining include:  
• 
25th Avenue 
• 
Baldwin Avenue 
• 
4th Avenue  
• 
3rd Avenue (between Ellsworth and El Camino) 
• 
B Street between 4th and 5th Avenue 
Restaurants wishing to provide sidewalk dining in other areas of the City not listed above should contact 
staff for an evaluation of whether the sidewalk width at their location is adequate to comply. 
A Temporary Outdoor Restaurant Dining Encroachment Permit is required for any restaurant that 
provides alcohol service to their sidewalk dining area. All other restaurants wishing to use their sidewalk 
area during this time will not be required to obtain a permit. 
138 of 163

--- page 139 ---
5 
 
On-Street Parking Space Dining Areas (Parklets) 
Parklets are dining areas located in on-street parking spaces in the public 
right-of-way. These dining areas have become commonplace in many 
urban areas. 
Downtown Common Parklets:   
The City of San Mateo will place barricades to designate communal 
parklets in on-street parking space areas in certain locations in the 
Downtown.  
 
The following specific conditions apply to these areas: 
• 
No permit is required for use of these areas for restaurants that are not providing alcohol 
service. 
• 
Restaurants using these areas will need to provide their own furniture for use of by the patrons 
and will be responsible for securing their furniture when not in use. 
• 
Restaurants must ensure that a minimum 3-foot ADA path of travel is maintained throughout 
these common parklet areas for patrons to access tables provided by any restaurant using the 
area. 
• 
Restaurants that are providing alcohol service will be required to get a Temporary Outdoor 
Restaurant Dining Encroachment Permit (at no cost) and meet the following conditions: 
o Businesses serving alcohol must provide evidence of insurance and list the City of San 
Mateo as additional insured.   
o Businesses serving alcohol outdoors can only do so as allowed by the terms of their own 
ABC License. 
o The dining areas of businesses serving alcohol must be clearly seperated from those of 
adjacent restaurants through some sort of barrier within the common space. Suggested 
barriers include additional barricades, planters, or roped off areas. These barriers must 
still allow for ADA access to other portions of the common parklet area. 
Custom Parklets or Other Parklet Areas 
The City of San Mateo can provide barricades to designate parklets in public parking spaces in other 
areas of the City not served by the common parklet areas.  
 
Restaurants are also welcome to propose their own design for custom parklets that use alternative 
types of barricades.  These alternative designs must be reviewed by the City to ensure they meet safety 
standards prior their construction. The City is developing standards for custom built parklets that will be 
available by October 1, 2020. Please review these standards prior to developing a plan for a custom 
parklet.  
 
A no-fee Temporary Outdoor Restaurant Dining Encroachment Permit will be required to approve 
parklets outside of the common parklet areas or for any custom built parklet. In order to apply for a 
permit, the restaurant will need to provide a site plan showing the proposed layout of the area. This site 
139 of 163

--- page 140 ---
6 
 
plan can be hand-drawn. The City can provide assistance, as needed, to help determine the optimal 
layout.  
 
The following specific conditions apply to these areas: 
• 
Restaurants using these areas will need to provide their own furniture for use of by the patrons 
and will be responsible for securing their furniture when not in use. 
• 
Restaurants that are providing alcohol service will be required to meet the following conditions: 
o Restaurants that are providing alcohol service must provide evidence of insurance and 
list the City of San Mateo as additional insured.   
o Restaurants that are providing alcohol service must meet all requirements of the 
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board and any other federal, state, or local laws and 
regulations governing the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages.  
Key considerations for the layout of these parklet areas: 
• 
Use of the on-street parking spaces shall be limited to the striped dimensions of the 
parking stall areas and shall not encroach into the through travel lane. 
• 
Provide for a three-foot width for traffic barricades. 
• 
Parklets at corners cannot extend beyond the space occupied by a standard parked car. 
• 
Do not eliminate or obstruct existing, on-street disabled parking. 
• 
Allow adequate spacing next to remaining parking stalls for opening of vehicle doors. 
• 
Restaurants may expand their space to include areas fronting adjacent storefronts if they get a 
signed letter granting permission from the owner of the adjacent storefront. 
• 
The height of the parklet walls cannot extend more than 3 feet (36 inches) above the base of the 
floor of the parklet.  
• 
Any platforms constructed need to be flush to the sidewalk to allow for ADA access and allow 
for stormwater to flow to the City drains beneath the parklets. 
Private Parking Lot Dining Areas  
Private parking lot areas refer to shopping centers, strip malls, and stand-alone commercial properties 
that have their own designated parking area. The City of San Mateo is temporarily suspending 
requirements restricting the provision of outdoor dining, minimum parking standards as codified in 
Municipal Code 27.64.160 Sections 2, 9(c), 9(f), and planning application conditions of approval related 
to parking and outdoor dining. Suspending these requirements will temporarily allow restaurants to 
provide outdoor dining in their respective private parking lots.  Arrangements for outdoor dining must 
be worked out with the property owner for each location. The City would not be a party to discussions 
or arrangements concerning the leasing or use of outdoor space on private property. 
The following specific conditions apply to these areas: 
• 
Restaurants must have the permission of the property owner in order to use the parking space 
areas. 
140 of 163

--- page 141 ---
7 
 
• 
The parking lots must still comply with all ADA standards, including ADA paths of travel and 
adequate provision of handicapped parking spaces pursuant to California Building Code Section 
11B. 
• 
Restaurants that are providing alcohol service must meet all requirements of the Alcoholic 
Beverage Control Board and any other federal, state, or local laws and regulations governing 
the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages.  
• 
Access to fire hydrants, fire hose connections for sprinkler systems, and entrances and exits of 
all buildings shall not be obstructed at any time by barriers or seating. The twenty (20) feet fire 
lane shall not be obstructed at any time. There shall be a minimum of forty (40) inches in 
distance separating the edge of a table or chair to a fire department connection. 
• 
Consideration should be given to maintaining adequate parking supply on-site to prevent 
spillover parking in adjacent residential areas. 
• 
Driveway entrances and exits shall always remain unobstructed. 
• 
Temporary outdoor lighting in compliance with California Green Building Code Light Pollution 
standards is allowed. Lighting shall be turned off whenever the restaurant is closed and/or the 
outdoor dining area is not in use. 
• 
All items installed to support outdoor dining shall be temporary in nature and removed at such 
the time the City so orders. Upon removal of these items, the site shall be restored to its 
previous condition within 48 hours. 
• 
Restaurant patrons shall have access to the restroom(s) affiliated with the subject restaurant.  
For More Information:   
For Questions or additional information regarding these Outdoor Dining Guidelines or the Temporary 
Outdoor Restaurant Dining Encroachment Permit application, please contact: 
 
Jennifer Chen, Economic Development Manager 
jchen@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522‐7009 
 
141 of 163

--- page 142 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2020)
APPROVING ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATION TO THE CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE IN THE 2020-21 BUDGET
WHEREAS, Section 5.13(a) of the City Charter requires Council approval by resolution for supplemental 
appropriations to the City’s budget; and
WHEREAS, the City Manager’s Office is anticipating additional expenses to support the extension of the 
Outdoor Dining program through March 1, 2021; and
WHEREAS, analysis of departmental operating budgets for fiscal year 2020-21 indicates an amendment 
to the current City Manager’s Office appropriation is warranted; and
WHEREAS, the impact of amending the operating budget as detailed and recommended in the 
accompanying administrative report has been considered in the City’s financial forecast.  
WHEREAS, In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4), this appropriation is a fiscal activity 
that is not subject to CEQA.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
A supplemental budget appropriation for fiscal year 2020-21 is approved in the amount of $111,500 
for the City Manager’s Office. 
142 of 163

--- page 143 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  20
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 20-3383
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
September 21, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Building Electrification Reach Codes – Ordinance Introduction
RECOMMENDATION:
Introduce one of the following two Ordinance options related to building electrification:
1)
an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.24 “Energy Code” to require new multifamily 
residential buildings be all-electric; or  
2)
an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.24 “Energy Code” to require new residential 
buildings and buildings with office use be all-electric.
BACKGROUND:
Every three years the State of California updates the California Building Standards Code and with each update, the Energy 
Code section becomes more stringent. Jurisdictions can adopt local amendments that exceed the State’s codes, often 
referred to as “reach codes”, to encourage more sustainable construction. The adoption of reach codes has been an 
important approach to meeting the City’s Climate Action Plan goals, reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the built 
environment, and addressing building electrification in new construction.
Building electrification means constructing buildings without any natural gas services and using electric appliances and 
systems for space heating, water heating, clothes drying, and cooking. Building electrification is gaining traction since 
electricity can now be provided from greenhouse gas (GHG) free sources from Peninsula Clean Energy, whereas natural gas 
is a fossil fuel that will always have associated GHG emissions. In 2019, City Council adopted reach codes for the 2019 Code 
Cycle that went into effect on January 1, 2020 that encourage building electrification in single family and duplex homes 
and buildings with office use. At the time of reach code development, a cost-effectiveness study was not available to adopt 
a building electrification reach code addressing mid-rise multifamily residential construction, and City Council directed 
staff to return with potential reach code options when a study became available.  
After the Mid-Rise Multifamily Cost-Effectiveness Study preliminary results became available in March 2020, staff 
presented the results to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission and collected feedback and comments from 
developers on different policy approaches to encourage and require all-electric multifamily residential construction. At the 
July 20, 2020 City Council meeting, staff presented policy options to encourage or require building electrification in new 
multifamily residential buildings. Staff also asked for feedback on whether there was interest to revise the City’s adopted 
reach codes that encourage building electrification in single family and duplex homes and buildings with office use. The 
City’s adopted reach codes encourage building electrification by giving builders the choice of two options, either building 
an all-electric building at the minimum efficiency as required by the Energy Code, or building a mixed-fuel building (uses 
electricity and natural gas) at a higher energy efficiency level than the Energy Code. This approach is often called the 
“Electric Preferred Reach Code” approach since it gives preference to all-electric buildings. 
143 of 163

--- page 144 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council directed staff to develop an ordinance that requires new multifamily residential buildings be all-electric. The 
City Council also directed staff to return for further consideration of revising the City’s existing Electric Preferred Reach 
Codes to require all-electric single family and duplex homes and buildings with office use. This report introduces two 
alternative proposed ordinances to meet Council’s direction. Proposed Ordinance #1 requires building electrification in 
new multifamily residential buildings and retains the City’s adopted Electric Preferred Reach Codes. Proposed Ordinance 
#2 requires building electrification in new residential buildings (including single family and duplex homes and multifamily 
residential buildings) and buildings with office use. Staff seeks City Council consideration and selection of one of the 
proposed ordinances for adoption.
Proposed Ordinance #1: Building Electrification in New Multifamily Buildings
Proposed Ordinance #1 requires new multifamily residential buildings be all-electric. This approach is proven to be cost-
effective and is analyzed in the Low-rise Residential New Construction Cost-Effectiveness Study and the Mid-rise 
Residential New Construction Cost-Effectiveness Study. 
At the July 20th City Council meeting, Council indicated concern regarding potential unintended and negative impacts to 
affordable housing. In effort to address this concern, staff included a provision that exempts 100% affordable housing from 
the reach code requirement. It should be noted, however, that the Mid-Peninsula Downtown San Mateo Affordable 
Housing project is already intending to be all-electric. 
Proposed Ordinance #1 (Attachment 1) requires new multifamily residential buildings be all-electric. It does not modify the 
City’s adopted Electric Preferred Reach Codes for single family and duplex homes and buildings with office use.
Proposed Ordinance #2: Building Electrification in New Residential Buildings and Buildings with Office Use
In August 2019, the City adopted Electric Preferred Reach Codes that encourage building electrification in new single 
family and duplex homes and buildings with office use. At the July 20th City Council meeting, City Council indicated interest 
in revising the adopted reach codes to require all-electric construction in these building types.
Staff solicited developer feedback regarding all-electric requirements for single family and duplex homes and buildings 
with office use. The primary concern with electrifying single family and duplex homes is consumer interest in gas cooking 
ranges. Although induction stoves have proven to be an effective alternative, multiple stakeholders brought up that there 
is customer demand for the gas cooking range. During stakeholder outreach, no challenges were identified in electrifying 
office space. 
Proposed Ordinance #2 (Attachment 2) requires new residential buildings (including single family and duplex homes and 
multifamily residential buildings) and buildings with office use be all-electric. Proposed Ordinance #2 focuses on 
commercial buildings with office use because it is the primary type of commercial use in San Mateo and no challenges in 
electrifying office space were identified during stakeholder outreach. 
Staff does not recommend a reach code that requires all-electric construction of other commercial uses, such as retail, 
hospital, or manufacturing uses at this time. Retail spaces are specifically challenging because retail spaces have a high 
turnover rate and often have different types of tenants. Retail spaces may start as a retail store and then later become a 
restaurant. Staff does not recommend addressing retail use at this time since many stakeholders identified it would be 
challenging to electrify restaurants/commercial kitchens. Commercial-scale induction stoves are becoming a viable 
alternative, but according to stakeholders, there are limited examples and restaurants are slowly training chefs to use 
induction stove technology. Hospitals, life science buildings (biotech), and manufacturing buildings can be challenging to 
build all-electric as it can be costly to meet the air conditioning load for buildings with these uses. Jurisdictions with all-
electric reach code requirements often provided exemptions for restaurants, hospitals, life-science buildings, and 
manufacturing buildings.  
This ordinance also includes the exemption for 100% affordable housing projects as discussed in the previous section of 
this report. In addition, the ordinance includes an exemption for Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs). Even though ADUs are 
often built all-electric, given the State of California’s recent focus on ADU construction, the City wanted to ensure there 
144 of 163

--- page 145 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
were no perceived barriers to ADU development. When adopting the Electric Preferred Reach Codes in August 2019, the 
City also exempted ADUs from the Electric Preferred Reach Codes. 
This approach is proven to be cost-effective and is analyzed in the Low-rise Residential New Construction Cost-
Effectiveness Study, Mid-rise Residential New Construction Cost-Effectiveness Study, and Non-Residential New 
Construction Cost-Effectiveness Study.
Next Steps
The California Energy Commission (CEC) requires local jurisdictions to file Energy Code Reach Codes with the State and 
wait a 60-day comment period.  Following City Council approval of the one the alternative proposed Ordinances, staff will 
file the proposed amendments to the Energy Code with the CEC and respond to public comments as needed. If approved 
by the City Council and the CEC, the Reach Codes would go into effect on January 1, 2021 and would expire at the end of 
the building code cycle on December 31, 2022. The City will have to readopt reach codes for future building code cycles.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The proposed local amendments will not have a budgetary impact on the City since the City is required to enforce the 
Energy Code and the local amendments will not be onerous to implement and track.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15308, adoption of reach code ordinances is categorically exempt from CEQA 
as an action by a regulatory agency for the protection of the environment, because the reach codes are intended to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met. Staff also notified development stakeholders. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Ordinance #1
Att 2 – Proposed Ordinance #2
Att 3 – Public Comment
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7007
145 of 163

--- page 146 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
AMENDING CHAPTER 23.24, “ENERGY CODE,” OF TITLE 23, “BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION,” OF THE SAN 
MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE TO REQUIRE NEW MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS BE ALL-ELECTRIC
WHEREAS, the City’s Climate Action Plan recommended that the City review local amendments to the 
California Energy Code to promote increased energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources; and 
WHEREAS,  on August 19, 2019, the City Council adopted the California Energy Code, 2019 Edition, with 
local amendments to require solar installation on new nonresidential buildings and encourage building 
electrification in new single family and duplex homes and buildings with office use; and
WHEREAS,  new all-electric single family and duplex homes and buildings with office use must be built at 
the minimum efficiency as required by the Energy Code; and
WHEREAS,  new mixed-fuel single family and duplex homes and buildings with office use must exceed 
the Energy Code by using either the performance or prescriptive pathway; and
WHEREAS,  the City Council identified additional local amendments to further reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions in new construction in alignment with the City’s Climate Action Plan; and
WHEREAS,  the City Council recommends adopting local amendments to require new multifamily 
residential buildings be all-electric; and
WHEREAS,  the City has completed an analysis and has determined that the requirements of the local 
amendments to the California Energy Code would provide a positive cost benefit to new construction within the 
City of San Mateo; and
WHEREAS,  California Health and Safety Code Section 17958 requires that the City, in order to make 
local amendments, find that the local amendments are reasonably necessary due to local climatic, geographical, 
or topographical conditions; and
WHEREAS,  the City’s Section 17958 findings are attached as Exhibit A to this Ordinance.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Chapter 23.34, “Energy Code,” of Title 23 “Buildings and Construction,” of the San Mateo Municipal 
Code is hereby amended to read:
Chapter 23.24 Energy Code
Sections:
23.24.010 Adoption 
23.24.020 Local Amendment to Definitions
23.24.030 Local Amendment Regarding Mandatory Solar Installations 
146 of 163

--- page 147 ---
23.24.040 Local Amendment Regarding All-Electric Requirements or Energy Efficiency Standards for Mixed-Fuel 
Office Use Buildings
23.24.050 Local Amendment Regarding All-Electric Requirements for High-Rise Multifamily Residential Buildings
23.24.060 Local Amendment Regarding All-Electric Requirements or Energy Efficiency Standards for Mixed-Fuel 
Single Family Duplex Residential Buildings
23.24.070 Local Amendment Regarding All-Electric Requirements for Low-Rise Multifamily Residential Buildings
23.24.080 Infeasibility Exemption 
23.24.090 Expiration
23.24.010 ADOPTION
(a) The California Energy Code, 2019 Edition, Title 24, Part 6 of the California Code of Regulations, as 
adopted and amended by the State of California, hereinafter called “Energy Code,” is adopted as the rules, 
regulations and standards within this City as to all matters therein except as hereinafter modified or amended 
for so long as the 2019 Edition of the Building Code is in effect;
(b) One copy of the Energy Code shall at all times be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk.
23.24.020 LOCAL AMENDMENT TO DEFINITIONS 
Subchapter 1, “All Occupancies – General Provisions,” Section 100.1(b), of the state Energy Code is amended to 
include the following definitions: 
Accessory building shall have the meaning set forth in Section 27.04.010 of the City of San Mateo Municipal 
Code.
Accessory dwelling unit means an attached or detached residential dwelling unit which provides complete 
independent living facilities for one or more persons and which is approved in conformance with Government 
Code Section 65852.2 and Chapter 27.19 of the City of San Mateo Municipal Code.
Affordable housing means housing that meets either of the following criteria: 
(a) housing that is affordable to very low-income, low-income, or moderate-income households, or 
designated as 100% for senior households. Very low-income, low-income, and moderate-income households 
have the meaning set forth in the Health and Safety Code sections 50105, 50079.5, 50093, respectively. Senior 
household means a household occupied by qualifying residents as defined in Section 51.3 of the Civil Code; or
(b) housing that meets the criteria of the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Project or Department of 
Housing and Urban Development programs that assist low-income and moderate-income households. 
All-electric building or all-electric design is a building or building design that uses a permanent supply of 
electricity as the only source of energy for space conditioning (including heating and cooling), water heating 
147 of 163

--- page 148 ---
(including pools and spas), cooking appliances, and clothes drying appliances, and has no natural gas or propane 
plumbing installed at the building.
Mixed-fuel building or mixed-fuel design is a building or building design that uses natural gas or propane as fuel 
for space heating, water heating (including pools and spas), cooking appliances or clothes drying appliances or is 
plumbed for such equipment.
23.24.030 LOCAL AMENDMENT REGARDING MANDATORY SOLAR INSTALLATIONS 
Subchapter 5, “Nonresidential, High-rise Residential, and Hotel/Motel Occupancies – Performance and 
Prescriptive Compliance Approaches for Achieving Energy Efficiency,” Section 140.0(b), of the state Energy Code 
is amended to include:
Solar photovoltaic systems shall be installed as follows:
(a) New residential buildings four stories or more shall provide a minimum of a 3-kilowatt photovoltaic 
system.
(b) New non-residential buildings with less than 10,000 square feet of gross floor area shall provide a 
minimum of a 3-kilowatt photovoltaic system.
(c) New non-residential buildings greater than or equal to 10,000 square feet of gross floor area shall 
provide a minimum of a 5-kilowatt photovoltaic system
Exception: As an alternative to a solar photovoltaic system, all of the building types listed above may provide a 
solar hot water system (solar thermal) with a minimum collector area of 40 square feet.
23.24.040 LOCAL AMENDMENT REGARDING ALL-ELECTRIC BUILDINGS OR ENERGY EFFICIENCY STANDARDS FOR 
MIXED-FUEL OFFICE USE BUILDINGS 
(a) All-electric buildings with office use are required to meet the established energy efficiency standards 
in Subchapter 5, “Nonresidential, High-rise Residential, and Hotel/Motel Occupancies – Performance and 
Prescriptive Compliance Approaches for Achieving Energy Efficiency,” of the state Energy Code.
(b) Mixed-fuel buildings with office use shall comply with increased energy efficiency standards. 
Subchapter 5, “Nonresidential, High-rise Residential, and Hotel/Motel Occupancies – Performance and 
Prescriptive Compliance Approaches for Achieving Energy Efficiency,” of the state Energy Code is amended to 
require increased energy efficiency standards in the performance or prescriptive compliance approaches as 
follows:
(1) Performance Approach: Energy Code Section 140.1 “Performance Approach: Energy 
Budgets” is amended to include the following performance standards for mixed-fuel buildings with 
office use: 
A newly constructed mixed-fuel office building complies with the performance approach if the 
energy budget calculated for the Proposed Design Building under Subsection (b) has a compliance 
148 of 163

--- page 149 ---
margin exceeding the energy budget calculated for the Standard Design Building under Subsection (a) of 
at least 10%. 
(2) Prescriptive Approach: Energy Code Section 140.2 “Prescriptive Approach” is amended to 
include the following prescriptive standards for newly constructed mixed-fuel buildings with office use:
(A) Install fenestration with a solar heat gain coefficient no greater than 0.22.
(B) Limit the fenestration area on east-facing and west-facing walls to one-half of the 
average amount of north-facing and south-facing fenestration.
(C) Design Variable Air Volume (VAV) box minimum airflows to be equal to the zone 
ventilation minimums.
(D) Include economizers and staged fan control in air handlers with a mechanical cooling 
capacity ≥ 33,000 Btu/h
(E) Reduce the total lighting power density (Watts/ft2) by ten percent (10%) from that 
required from Table 140.6-C.
(F) Improve lighting without claiming any Power Adjustment Factor credits:
(i) Control to daylight dimming plus off per Section 140.6(a)2H, and 
(ii) Install Occupant Sensing Controls in Large Open Plan Offices per Section 
140.6(a)2I, and
(iii) Perform Institutional Tuning per Section 140.6(a)2J.
23.40.050 LOCAL AMENDMENT REGARDING ALL-ELECTRIC REQUIREMENTS FOR HIGH-RISE MULTIFAMILY 
RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
Subchapter 5, “Nonresidential, High-rise Residential, and Hotel/Motel Occupancies – Performance and 
Prescriptive Compliance Approaches for Achieving Energy Efficiency,” of the state Energy Code is amended to 
require newly constructed high-rise multifamily residential buildings be all-electric buildings as defined in 
Section 100.1(b).
Exception: High-rise multifamily residential buildings that consist of 100% affordable housing shall be exempt 
from the all-electric building provisions of this section. For purposes of this exception, “affordable housing” is 
defined in Section 100.1(b).
23.24.060 LOCAL AMENDMENT REGARDING ALL-ELECTRIC BUILDINGS OR ENERGY EFFICIENCY STANDARDS FOR 
MIXED-FUEL SINGLE FAMILY AND DUPLEX RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS 
(a) Accessory buildings and accessory dwelling units are required to meet the established energy 
efficiency standards in Subchapter 8, “Low-rise Residential Buildings – Performance and Prescriptive Compliance 
Approaches,” of the state Energy Code. 
149 of 163

--- page 150 ---
(b) All-electric single-family and duplex residential buildings are required to meet the established energy 
efficiency standards in Subchapter 8, “Low-rise Residential Buildings – Performance and Prescriptive Compliance 
Approaches,” of the state Energy Code.
(c) Mixed-fuel single family and duplex residential buildings shall comply with increased energy 
efficiency standards. Subchapter 8, “Low-rise Residential Buildings – Performance and Prescriptive Compliance 
Approaches,” of the state Energy Code is amended to require increased energy efficiency standards in the 
performance and prescriptive compliance approaches as follows:
(1) Performance Approach: Section 150.1.b. “Performance standards” is amended to include the 
following performance standard for newly constructed mixed-fuel single family and duplex residential 
buildings: 
The Energy Efficiency Design Rating calculated for the Proposed Design Building shall be at least 
2.5 EDR points less than the Energy Efficiency Design Rating calculated for the Standard Design Building.
(2) Prescriptive Approach: Section 150.1.c. “Prescriptive standards/component packages” is 
amended to include the following prescriptive standards for newly constructed mixed-fuel single-family 
and duplex residential buildings:
(A) Duct System Sealing and Leakage Testing.  The duct systems shall exceed the 
minimum mandatory requirements of Section 150.0(m)11 A and B such that the total duct 
system leakage shall not exceed 2 percent of the nominal system air handler air flow.
(B) Slab floor perimeter insulation shall be installed with an R-value equal to or greater 
than R10. The minimum depth of concrete-slab floor perimeter insulation shall be 16 inches or 
the depth of the footing of the building, whichever is less. 
(C) The hot water distribution system shall be designed and installed to meet minimum 
requirements for the basic compact hot water distribution credit according to the procedures 
outlined in the 2019 Reference Appendices RA4.4.6.
(D) Central Fan Integrated Ventilation Systems. The duct distribution system shall be 
designed reduce external static pressure to meet a maximum fan efficacy equal to: 
(i) Gas Furnaces: 0.35 Watts per cfm 
(ii) Heat Pumps: 0.45 Watts per cfm, according to the procedures outlined in the 
2019 Reference Appendices RA 3.3. 
(E) For buildings with either space heating or water heating systems fueled by gas or 
propane, also include: 
(i) 5 kWh battery of battery storage, OR 
(ii) A solar water heating system with a minimum solar savings fraction of 0.20. 
150 of 163

--- page 151 ---
23.24.070 LOCAL AMENDMENT REGARDING ALL-ELECTRIC REQUIREMENTS FOR LOW-RISE MULTIFAMILY 
RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
Subchapter 8, “Low-rise Residential Buildings – Performance and Prescriptive Compliance Approaches,” of the 
state Energy Code is amended to require newly constructed low-rise multifamily residential buildings be all-
electric buildings as defined in Section 100.1(b).
Exception: Single family and duplex residential buildings are subject to the requirements of Subchapter 8, “Low-
rise Residential Buildings – Performance and Prescriptive Compliance Approaches” as amended by Section 
23.24.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code.
23.24.080 INFEASIBILITY EXEMPTION
(a) Exemption. If an applicant believes that circumstances exist that makes it infeasible to meet the 
requirements of this Chapter, the applicant may request an exemption from the Building Official or designee at 
the time of planning application submittal. In applying for an exemption, the burden is on the applicant to show 
infeasibility. The applicant shall indicate the maximum threshold of compliance he or she believes is feasible to 
fully comply with this Chapter. 
(b) Infeasibility. Circumstances that constitute infeasibility include, but are not limited to the following:
(1) There is a lack of commercially available materials and technologies to comply with the 
requirements of this Chapter;
(2) Applying the requirements of this Chapter would effectuate an unconstitutional taking of 
property or otherwise have an unconstitutional application to the property.
(c) Granting of Exemption. If the Building Official or designee determines that it is infeasible for the 
applicant to fully meet the requirements of this Chapter based on the information provided, the Building Official 
or designee shall determine the maximum feasible threshold of compliance reasonably achievable for the 
project. The decision of the Building Official or designee shall be provided to the applicant in writing. If an 
exemption is granted, the applicant shall be required to comply with this Chapter in all other respects and shall 
be required to achieve, in accordance with this Chapter, the threshold of compliance determined to be 
achievable by the Building Official or designee.
(d) Denial of Exemption. If the Building Official or designee determines that it is reasonably possible for 
the applicant to fully meet the requirements of this Chapter, the request shall be denied and the Building Official 
or designee shall so notify the applicant in writing. The project and compliance documentation shall be modified 
to comply with this Chapter prior to further review of any pending planning or building permit application.
(e) Appeals of Exemption Denial. If denied the infeasibility exemption, the applicant may appeal in 
writing to the Community Development Department (CDD) Director. The CDD Director will consider the 
information provided and render a written decision regarding infeasibility based on the factors set forth in this 
Chapter. The decision of the CDD Director shall be final. 
151 of 163

--- page 152 ---
23.24.090 EXPIRATION
These local code amendments shall sunset when the California Energy Code, 2019 Edition, is no longer in effect.
Section 2. The Council adopts the findings supporting the local amendments to the California Energy Code, 2019 
Edition, attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference.
Section 3. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15308, adoption of this Ordinance is categorially exempt from CEQA, because it imposes 
stricter energy efficiency requirements and is a regulatory action authorized by state law and intended to 
protect the environment..
Section 4. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 5. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 6. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective January 1, 2021.
152 of 163

--- page 153 ---
Exhibit A
FINDINGS SUPPORTING LOCAL AMENDMENTS TO
CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE, 2019 EDITION
Section 17958 of the California Health and Safety Code provides that the City may make changes to the 
provisions in the uniform codes that are published in the California Building Standards Code. Sections 17958.5 
and 17958.7 of the Health and Safety Code require that for each proposed local change to those provisions in 
the uniform codes and published in the California Building Standards Code which regulate buildings used for 
human habitation, the City Council must make findings supporting its determination that each such local change 
is reasonably necessary because of local climatic, geological, or topographical conditions. 
Local building regulations having the effect of amending the uniform codes, which were adopted by the City 
prior to November 23, 1970, were unaffected by the regulations of Sections 17958, 17958.5 and 17958.7 of the 
Health and Safety Code. Therefore, amendments to the uniform codes which were adopted by the City Council 
prior to November 23, 1970 and have been carried through from year to year without significant change, need 
no required findings. Also, amendments to provisions not regulating buildings used for human habitation, 
including amendments made only for administrative consistency, do not require findings. 
Code: California Energy Code
Section(s) 
Title 
Add 
Deleted 
Amended 
Justification 
(See below 
for keys) 
Subchapter 1, 
Section 100.1
Definitions and Rules of 
Construction
X
A, B
Subchapter 5, 
Section 140.0
Performance and 
Prescriptive Compliance 
Approaches
X
X
A, B 
Subchapter 8, 
Section 150.1
Performance and 
Prescriptive Compliance 
Approaches for Low-Rise 
Residential Buildings
X
X
A, B
153 of 163

--- page 154 ---
Key to Justification Supporting Amendments to Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations
A.
This amendment is justified on the basis of a local climatic condition. Failure to address and significantly 
reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions could result in rises in sea level, including in San Francisco Bay, 
that could put at risk City homes and businesses, public facilities, and Highway 101 (Bayshore Freeway), 
particularly the mapped Flood Hazard areas of the City. Energy efficiency and the use of renewable 
energy sources are key components in reducing GHG emissions, and construction of more energy 
efficient buildings with dedicated renewable energy installations can help the City of San Mateo reduce 
its share of the GHG emissions that contribute to climate change. The burning of fossil fuels used in the 
generation of electric power and heating of buildings contributes to climate change, which could result 
in rises in sea level, including in San Francisco Bay, that could put at risk City homes and businesses, 
public facilities, and Highway 101. 
 
B.
Energy efficiency enhances the public health and welfare by promoting the environmental and 
economic health of the City through the design, construction, maintenance, operation and 
deconstruction of buildings and sites by incorporating green practices into all development. The 
provisions in this Chapter are designed to achieve the following goals: 
(a) Increase energy efficiency in buildings; 
(b) Increase resource conservation; 
(c) Provide durable buildings that are efficient and economical to own and operate; 
(d) Promote the health and productivity of residents, workers, and visitors to the city; 
(e) Recognize and conserve the energy embodied in existing buildings; and 
(f) Reduce disturbance of natural ecosystems. 
154 of 163

--- page 155 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
AMENDING CHAPTER 23.24, “ENERGY CODE,” OF TITLE 23, “BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION,” OF THE SAN 
MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE TO REQUIRE NEW RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AND BUILDINGS WITH OFFICE USE BE 
ALL-ELECTRIC
WHEREAS, the City’s Climate Action Plan recommended that the City review local amendments to the 
California Energy Code to promote increased energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources; and 
WHEREAS,  on August 19, 2019, the City Council adopted the California Energy Code, 2019 Edition, with 
local amendments to require solar installation on new nonresidential buildings and encourage building 
electrification in new single family and duplex homes and buildings with office use; and
WHEREAS,  the City Council identified additional local amendments to further reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions in new construction in alignment with the City’s Climate Action Plan; and
WHEREAS,  the City Council recommends adopting local amendments to require new residential 
buildings and buildings with office use be all-electric; and
WHEREAS,  these local amendments would replace the City’s previously adopted reach codes 
encouraging building electrification in new single family and duplex homes and buildings with office use; and
WHEREAS,  the City has completed an analysis and has determined that the requirements of the local 
amendments to the California Energy Code would provide a positive cost benefit to new construction within the 
City of San Mateo; and
WHEREAS,  California Health and Safety Code Section 17958 requires that the City, in order to make 
local amendments, find that the local amendments are reasonably necessary due to local climatic, geographical, 
or topographical conditions; and
WHEREAS,  the City’s Section 17958 findings are attached as Exhibit A to this Ordinance.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Chapter 23.34, “Energy Code,” of Title 23 “Buildings and Construction,” of the San Mateo Municipal 
Code is hereby amended to read:
CHAPTER 23.24 ENERGY CODE
Sections: 
23.24.010 Adoption 
23.24.020 Local Amendment to Definitions
23.24.030 Local Amendment Regarding Mandatory Solar Installations 
155 of 163

--- page 156 ---
23.24.040 Local Amendment Regarding All-Electric Requirements for Residential Buildings and Buildings with 
Office Use
23.24.050 Infeasibility Exemption 
23.24.060 Expiration
23.24.010 ADOPTION
(a) The California Energy Code, 2019 Edition, Title 24, Part 6 of the California Code of Regulations, as 
adopted and amended by the State of California, hereinafter called “Energy Code,” is adopted as the rules, 
regulations and standards within this City as to all matters therein except as hereinafter modified or amended 
for so long as the 2019 Edition of the Building Code is in effect; 
(b) One copy of the Energy Code shall at all times be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk. 
23.24.020 LOCAL AMENDMENT TO DEFINITIONS
Subchapter 1, “All Occupancies – General Provisions,” Section 100.1(b), of the state Energy Code is amended to 
add the following definitions:
Accessory building shall have the meaning set forth in Section 27.04.010 of the City of San Mateo Municipal 
Code.
Accessory dwelling unit shall mean an attached or detached residential dwelling unit which provides complete 
independent living facilities for one or more persons and which is approved in conformance with Government 
Code Section 65852.2 and Chapter 27.19 of the City of San Mateo Municipal Code.
Affordable housing means housing that meets either of the following criteria: 
(a) housing that is affordable to very low-income, low-income, or moderate-income households, or 
designated as 100% for senior households. Very low-income, low-income, and moderate-income households 
have the meaning set forth in the Health and Safety Code sections 50105, 50079.5, 50093, respectively. Senior 
households means households composed of qualifying residents as defined in Section 51.3 of the Civil Code; or
(b) housing that meets the criteria of the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Project or Department of 
Housing and Urban Development programs that assist low-income and moderate-income households. 
All-electric building or all-electric design is a building or building design that uses a permanent supply of 
electricity as the only source of energy for space conditioning (including heating and cooling), water heating 
(including pools and spas), cooking appliances, and clothes drying appliances, and has no natural gas or propane 
plumbing installed at the building.
Mixed-fuel building or mixed-fuel design is a building or building design that uses natural gas or propane as fuel 
for space heating, water heating (including pools and spas), cooking appliances or clothes drying appliances or is 
plumbed for such equipment.
156 of 163

--- page 157 ---
23.24.030 LOCAL AMENDMENT REGARDING MANDATORY SOLAR INSTALLATIONS 
Subchapter 5, “Nonresidential, High-rise Residential, and Hotel/Motel Occupancies – Performance and 
Prescriptive Compliance Approaches for Achieving Energy Efficiency,” Section 140.0(b), of the state Energy Code 
is amended to include:
Solar photovoltaic systems shall be installed as follows:
(a) New residential buildings four stories or more shall provide a minimum of a 3-kilowatt photovoltaic 
system.
(b) New non-residential buildings with less than 10,000 square feet of gross floor area shall provide a 
minimum of a 3-kilowatt photovoltaic system.
(c) New non-residential buildings greater than or equal to 10,000 square feet of gross floor area shall 
provide a minimum of a 5-kilowatt photovoltaic system.
Exception: As an alternative to a solar photovoltaic system, all of the building types listed above may provide a 
solar hot water system (solar thermal) with a minimum collector area of 40 square feet.
23.24.040 LOCAL AMENDMENT REGARDING ALL-ELECTRIC REQUIREMENTS FOR RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AND 
BUILDINGS WITH OFFICE USE 
Subchapter 2 “All Occupancies—Mandatory Requirements For The Manufacture, Construction And Installation 
Of Systems, Equipment And Building Components” is amended to add a new section 110.13 “All Electric 
Buildings.” Section 110.13 “All Electric Buildings” shall read as follows:
All newly constructed office buildings and residential buildings shall be designed, constructed, and equipped as 
All-Electric Buildings.
Exception to Section 110.13. Low-rise and high-rise multifamily buildings that consist of 100% affordable 
housing shall be exempt from the all-electric building provisions of this section. For purposes of this exception, 
“affordable housing” is defined in Section 100.1(b).
Exception to Section 110.13. Accessory Buildings and Accessory Dwelling Units shall be exempt from the all-
electric building provisions of this section. For purposes of this exception, “accessory building” and “accessory 
dwelling unit are defined in Section 100.1(b).
23.24.050 INFEASIBILITY EXEMPTION
(a) Exemption. If an applicant believes that circumstances exist that makes it infeasible to meet the 
requirements of this Chapter, the applicant may request an exemption from the Building Official or designee at 
the time of planning application submittal. In applying for an exemption, the burden is on the applicant to show 
infeasibility. The applicant shall indicate the maximum threshold of compliance he or she believes is feasible to 
fully comply with this Chapter. 
(b) Infeasibility. Circumstances that constitute infeasibility include, but are not limited to the following:
157 of 163

--- page 158 ---
(1) There is a lack of commercially available materials and technologies to comply with the 
requirements of this Chapter;
(2) Applying the requirements of this Chapter would effectuate an unconstitutional taking of 
property or otherwise have an unconstitutional application to the property.
(c) Granting of Exemption. If the Building Official or designee determines that it is infeasible for the 
applicant to fully meet the requirements of this Chapter based on the information provided, the Building Official 
or designee, shall determine the maximum feasible threshold of compliance reasonably achievable for the 
project. The decision of the Building Official or designee shall be provided to the applicant in writing. If an 
exemption is granted, the applicant shall be required to comply with this Chapter in all other respects and shall 
be required to achieve, in accordance with this Chapter, the threshold of compliance determined to be 
achievable by the Building Official or designee.
(d) Denial of Exemption. If the Building Official or designee determines that it is reasonably possible for 
the applicant to fully meet the requirements of this Chapter, the request shall be denied and the Building Official 
or designee shall so notify the applicant in writing. The project and compliance documentation shall be modified 
to comply with this Chapter prior to further review of any pending planning or building permit application.
(e) Appeals of Exemption Denial. If denied the infeasibility exemption, the applicant may appeal in 
writing to the Community Development Department (CDD) Director. The CDD Director will consider the 
information provided and render a written decision regarding infeasibility based on the factors set forth in this 
Chapter. The decision of the CDD Director shall be final. 
23.24.060 EXPIRATION
These local code amendments shall sunset when the California Energy Code, 2019 Edition, is no longer in effect.
Section 2. The Council adopts the findings supporting the local amendments to the California Energy Code, 2019 
Edition, attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference. 
Section 3. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15308, adoption of this Ordinance is categorially exempt from CEQA, because it imposes 
stricter energy efficiency requirements and is a regulatory action authorized by state law and intended to 
protect the environment.
Section 4. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 5. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 6. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective January 1, 2021.
158 of 163

--- page 159 ---
Exhibit A
FINDINGS SUPPORTING LOCAL AMENDMENTS TO
CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE, 2019 EDITION
Section 17958 of the California Health and Safety Code provides that the City may make changes to the 
provisions in the uniform codes that are published in the California Building Standards Code. Sections 17958.5 
and 17958.7 of the Health and Safety Code require that for each proposed local change to those provisions in 
the uniform codes and published in the California Building Standards Code which regulate buildings used for 
human habitation, the City Council must make findings supporting its determination that each such local change 
is reasonably necessary because of local climatic, geological, or topographical conditions. 
Local building regulations having the effect of amending the uniform codes, which were adopted by the City 
prior to November 23, 1970, were unaffected by the regulations of Sections 17958, 17958.5 and 17958.7 of the 
Health and Safety Code. Therefore, amendments to the uniform codes which were adopted by the City Council 
prior to November 23, 1970, and have been carried through from year to year without significant change, need 
no required findings. Also, amendments to provisions not regulating buildings used for human habitation, 
including amendments made only for administrative consistency, do not require findings. 
Code: California Energy Code
Section(s) 
Title 
Add 
Deleted 
Amended 
Justification 
(See below 
for keys) 
Subchapter 1, 
Section 100.1
Definitions and Rules of 
Construction
X
A, B
Subchapter 2, 
Section 110.13
All Electric Buildings
X
X
A, B
Subchapter 5, 
Section 140.0
Performance and 
Prescriptive Compliance 
Approaches
X
A, B 
Subchapter 8, 
Section 150.1
Performance and 
Prescriptive Compliance 
Approaches for Low-Rise 
Residential Buildings
X
A, B
159 of 163

--- page 160 ---
Key to Justification Supporting Amendments to Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations
A.
This amendment is justified on the basis of a local climatic condition. Failure to address and significantly 
reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions could result in rises in sea level, including in San Francisco Bay, 
that could put at risk City homes and businesses, public facilities, and Highway 101 (Bayshore Freeway), 
particularly the mapped Flood Hazard areas of the City. Energy efficiency and the use of renewable 
energy sources are key components in reducing GHG emissions, and construction of more energy 
efficient buildings with dedicated renewable energy installations can help the City of San Mateo reduce 
its share of the GHG emissions that contribute to climate change. The burning of fossil fuels used in the 
generation of electric power and heating of buildings contributes to climate change, which could result 
in rises in sea level, including in San Francisco Bay, that could put at risk City homes and businesses, 
public facilities, and Highway 101. 
 
B.
Energy efficiency enhances the public health and welfare by promoting the environmental and 
economic health of the City through the design, construction, maintenance, operation and 
deconstruction of buildings and sites by incorporating green practices into all development. The 
provisions in this Chapter are designed to achieve the following goals: 
(a) Increase energy efficiency in buildings; 
(b) Increase resource conservation; 
(c) Provide durable buildings that are efficient and economical to own and operate; 
(d) Promote the health and productivity of residents, workers, and visitors to the city; 
(e) Recognize and conserve the energy embodied in existing buildings; and 
(f) Reduce disturbance of natural ecosystems. 
160 of 163

--- page 161 ---
From:
Patrice Olds
To:
Andrea Chow; Joan Diskin
Subject:
Fwd: All Electric Reach Code
Date:
Thursday, September 10, 2020 6:35:07 PM
Get Outlook for iOS
From: Libby Traubman 
Sent: Thursday, September 10, 2020 6:11:42 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: All Electric Reach Code
Dear Mayor Joe Goethals and Council Members,
As a long time resident of San Mateo and deeply concerned about the future of our community
and all communities, I urge you to Support an All-Electric Reach Code for Healthy Homes,
Clean Air, and a Climate Resilient Community. This would make our county move in the
right direction of helping face the climate crisis and also serve as a model for other counties
and communities. 
Thank you for giving this your most serious consideration and for your service.
 Libby Traubman
 Phone: 
 Cell: 
 E-mail: 
 Web: http://traubman.igc.org
 One Earth, One Humanity, One Future
161 of 163

--- page 162 ---
From: Robert Whitehair <robert@sustainablesanmateo.org>  
Sent: Wednesday, September 16, 2020 2:11 PM 
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission 
<SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Reach Codes Agenda Item 
 
I respectfully request inclusion of this email in the agenda packet for September 21, 2020 
  
Many thanks to the City Council for strong action on July 20, 2020, when Council gave policy direction for all-
electric Reach building Codes for the purpose of reducing GreenHouse Gases especially CO2, and methane 
(the main component of “natural” gas).  Many thanks too to staff, for reviewing in detail what other jurisdictions 
have done, and for working hard on the Reach Code options presented to Council. “Reach” Codes as you 
know reach beyond the basic requirements of Title 24, the California Building Standards Code, aka the 
Building Code. 
  
It is my understanding that the ordinance options now being considered include one that would 
require ALL new construction to be all-electric, while the other applies ONLY to multi-family construction. If 
these are the options before the Council, I respectfully request approval of the first option, with additional 
language to increase the number of EV parking spaces.  
  
Council has already taken very strong leadership action by making the Downtown 225 affordable apartment 
units all-electric. In other projects, notably Concar Passage, the City has made it clear that all-electric is the 
way to go. 
  
Thank you for those decisions! 
  
Now, by adopting a strong Reach Code for ALL types of new construction the City of San Mateo can continue 
its leadership role in reducing carbon emissions.  Award winning San Mateo was the Trail Blazer on the 
Peninsula, being among the first San Mateo County cities in September 2019 to adopt Reach Codes.  Since 
last year, every successive Reach Code has been stronger and stronger, now eliminating natural gas/methane 
in most types of new construction.  
  
About 50 California cities have adopted legislation to reduce GHG emissions. And most recently, the Cities of 
Burlingame, Pacifica, Brisbane, Menlo Park and San Jose have adopted all-electric Reach Codes for ALL new 
construction.    
  
And, since last year, the possibilities for EV charging have increased significantly through the addition of 
Automated Load Management Systems (ALMS).  These systems allow for distribution of electrical power as 
needed, and have the effect of being able to connect 4 times the number of vehicles.  For example, recent staff 
reports for the 696 downtown parking garage have suggested that 105 spaces would need to be ready for 
electric vehicle chargers. Now, with ALMS, that number can be increased to more than 400, while using the 
same number of PG&E transformers.  More importantly, free design assistance and construction grants are 
available from Peninsula Clean Energy. 
  
If the Council decides to adopt a robust Reach building Code for all construction including strong ALMS 
language, this will significantly curtail future carbon dioxide and methane emissions. The Environmental 
Protection Agency as well as the Rocky Mountain Institute, one of the leading organizations working towards a 
carbon free future, have calculated the impact of eliminating fossil fuels. Each new all-electric single family 
home or apartment will eliminate at least 5 tons of carbon dioxide and other GHG per year, almost 400 tons 
over a 75 year lifetime.  In just the next 5 years of construction approvals in San Mateo, we would see a 
reduction of Carbon Dioxide of at least 1,000,000 tons, one of the most significant environmental decisions the 
Council will ever make. 
  
162 of 163

--- page 163 ---
Each cycle of the Building Standards Code is stronger and stronger.  The state of California is now working on 
the 2022 cycle and is considering an all-electric code as baseline. At the last meeting of the California Energy 
Commission, over 25 individuals and organizations spoke in favor of such a code.  The momentum is growing.  
PG&E has recognized that "natural" gas - methane - is on the way out, and has also recognized that in the 
next 2022 Title 24 Building Code cycle, that it is no longer appropriate to oppose elimination of gas in new 
construction. See this link:  
https://www.greentechmedia.com/articles/read/california-nears-tipping-point-on-all-electric-building-regulations 
Meanwhile, natural gas is becoming a "stranded asset" as utilities give up on natural gas, and cancel gas 
pipelines:  
https://cleantechnica.com/2020/07/06/gigantic-atlantic-coast-gas-pipeline-done-in-by-humble-household-heat-
pump/ 
  
Please adopt the strongest possible Reach Code. 
  
Thank you. 
 
163 of 163