source: packet.pdf
sha256: 0a5f4d5562f0e264c6ba5edf0611c7f8c18828694eab34286e941755ea89cfb7
pages: 326
ocr_pages: 214
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
November 18, 2024
5:30 PM
City Hall Council Chambers
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Lisa Diaz Nash, Mayor
Rob Newsom Jr., Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Amourence Lee
Adam Loraine
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: November 18, 2024
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 897 0930 6614     Passcode: 675150
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances 
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the consideration of this item. Following the meeting a report of action from
Closed Session will be provided if required.
1.
Conference with Legal Counsel - Anticipated Litigation
Significant exposure to litigation pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 54956.9: (one case)
Existing facts and circumstances: IRS proposed administrative penalty re: filing of information returns
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
2.
Review of City Pools: Current Status, Assessments, and Future Plans
Receive a report on the condition assessments of the Martin Luther King Pool and Joinville Swim Center and
provide feedback on a comprehensive action plan for maintenance, upgrades, and potential partnerships for
continued operations.
CEQA: This study session on pool conditions is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
 
ADJOURNMENT
1 of 326

--- page 2 ---
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 326

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 82-4681
File ID: 24-9335
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works and Parks and Recreation Departments
MEETING DATE:
November 18, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Review of City Pools: Current Status, Assessments, and Future Plans
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a report on the condition assessments of the Martin Luther King Pool and Joinville Swim Center and provide 
feedback on a comprehensive action plan for maintenance, upgrades, and potential partnerships for continued operations. 
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo’s primary aquatic facilities, the Martin Luther King Jr. (MLK) Pool and Joinville Swim Center, have 
served the community for over five decades. However, both facilities are experiencing structural degradation and systemic 
operational challenges due to outdated infrastructure. Major issues include water leakage, obsolete mechanical systems, 
and accessibility shortcomings, which, if unaddressed, could compromise community access and safety. This report 
presents the history, current conditions, and recommended upgrades needed to continue offering safe, functional 
facilities.
HISTORY OF THE POOLS
Joinville Swim Center (2111 Kehoe Avenue)
The Joinville Swim Center, established in 1968, includes a six-lane, 25-meter competitive pool and a smaller pool that share 
a single filtration system. The facility has undergone periodic updates since its construction through the late 1990s, 
including re-plastering, filtration upgrades, chemical treatment transitions, and chemical injection system updates.  A 2000 
facility assessment revealed that both pools’ operational lifespans required substantial upgrades or a complete 
replacement for continued service.  The facility has structural defects, has mechanical and plumbing system issues, is 
generally undersized with limited lifeguard space, inadequate storage space, and lacks a family changing room, is in need 
of electrical service upgrades, and has suboptimal paths-of-travel between the locker rooms, family restrooms, and 
shower facilities, which impacts service quality and accessibility.
Martin Luther King Jr. Pool (725 Monte Diablo)
Constructed in 1969, MLK Pool includes a large 27-ft by 36-ft pool and a small 20-ft by 16-ft wading pool that share a single 
filtration system. In the late 1990s and early 2000s, the facility disinfection systems and water heaters were updated to 
sustain operations. Nonetheless, MLK Pool continues to face numerous challenges, including structural wear, limited 
mobility access between the pools and locker rooms, and water filtration and circulation issues, all of which hinder the 
facility’s ability to serve the community effectively and meet modern safety and accessibility standards. In addition, the 
locker rooms have issues with poor drainage and inadequate ventilation, which have led to peeling of paint on ceilings and 
other wear and tear. Improvements to the locker room will improve the user experience and extend the operational 
lifespan of the facility. 
3 of 326

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
USAGE, REVENUE, AND EXPENSES
Both pools have shown consistent usage over the past three years, although only operating seasonally, primarily serving 
youth swimmers and community programs. Each pool also faces substantial demand for group swim lessons, evidenced by 
significant waitlists.  In the 2020 Community Survey Report where residents were specifically asked about aquatics 
activities and programs, approximately 60% responded they were very or somewhat interested.  In the same survey, 
providing a new recreation facility with pools or replacing existing pools were considered either a high or medium priority 
to more than half of the respondents in the community.

Joinville Swim Center: Generates approximately $68,000 annually with operational costs around $256,000. Even 
with an annual average of 1,100 enrollments in group lessons, there is still a high demand resulting in an average 
waitlist of 600 people annually.

MLK Pool: Annual revenue is about $48,000 with $232,000 in expenses. MLK has an annual average of 890 group 
lesson enrollments, and an average waitlist of 630, reflecting unmet community demand. This past year, youth 
participation surged from 694 to 947 enrollments.
These patterns underscore a need for improved facilities and operational efficiency to better serve residents. The Parks 
and Recreation Department is reviewing and updating its fiscal sustainability policy and as such, will be evaluating the 
subsidy associated with aquatic programming.
CURRENT STATUS AND ASSESSMENTS
In early 2024, ELS Architecture and Urban Design (ELS) performed detailed assessments (attached) of both pool facilities to 
determine the scope and preliminary costs of necessary upgrades for safety, compliance, and sustainability. The MLK 
assessment also evaluated how the facility can align with the City’s mission for the facility to function as a resilience center 
that can provide temporary food and shelter to displaced residents in the event of a local emergency. Key findings and 
recommendations are provided below. Recommended improvements are divided into two categories: Priority 1 
improvements are essential to the functioning of the facility, and Priority 2 improvements are important but may not be 
essential.
Joinville Swim Center
Joinville faces pressing operational and structural challenges, threatening its safety and functionality:

Leaks and Structural Damage: Persistent water leaks are causing ground seepage, potentially leading to more 
significant structural deterioration. Cracked pool decks and sinking areas in the southeast section require 
immediate intervention.

Aging and Noncompliant Equipment: Essential equipment such as the sand filters and boiler are beyond their 
functional lifespans, impacting water quality and efficiency. The water filtrations system should not comingle the 
water of the two pools and are required to have separate systems.

Safety Compliance: Exit paths, locker rooms, exit gates, panic hardware, and other facility features are not 
compliant with current accessibility and emergency standards.
Priority 1 Improvements: 

Redo pool deck and drainage 

New pool equipment and pool repairs, including an addition of about 625 square feet to house new equipment 

Include an additional 125 square feet for a new family changing room 

Provide new exits from the pool deck, including pathways and gates with panic hardware 

New paint throughout 

New automatic door operators at exits from locker rooms to pool deck 

New high/low drinking fountains on pool deck 

New accessible shower in men’s locker room, with new tiled walls 

New water-efficient plumbing fixtures 

Replace mechanical equipment and water heaters 

Structural priority 1 upgrades 
Priority 2 Improvements: 

Remodel and reconfigure locker rooms with new showers, lockers, benches and plumbing fixtures, including at 
least one family changing room. 

New plumbing fixtures, including minimum 3 toilets and 3 urinals for men, 4 toilets for women, 3 lavatories each. 4 
4 of 326

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
showers each for men and women. 

New lighting 

New all-electric pool equipment and new electrical service 

Structural priority 2 and 3 upgrades
Total Planning-Level Project Budget to deliver Priority 1 and 2 Improvements: $14.354 million.  This includes ELS's 
construction cost estimate of $7.867 million and additional City-estimated soft costs (design, project/construction 
management, permitting, environmental, health department compliance, etc.) of $3.154 million and a risk-based 
contingency (30 percent) of $3.312 million. 
Martin Luther King Jr. Pool
MLK Pool faces similar issues to Joinville, with additional safety hazards:

Structural Integrity: Cracked pool decks and a rusted gas line in the mechanical room pose severe safety risks and 
need immediate attention.

Outdated Systems: The sand filter and mechanical equipment have surpassed their service lives, while a leaking 
roof requires prompt repair to prevent further damage.

Safety and Accessibility: Inadequate mobility accommodations and locker room configurations fall short of current 
ADA requirements.
Priority 1 Improvements: 

Redo pool deck and drainage. Provide transition for 6” level change between interior and exterior with ramps and 
railings.

New pool equipment and pool repairs. Note: this includes an addition of about 525 square feet to house new 
equipment.

Provide for new exits from pool deck, including pathways and gates with panic hardware 

New automatic door operators at exits from locker rooms to pool deck.

Complete remodel of existing locker room/office area. Provide new accessible facilities, fixtures, finishes, lighting, 
interior walls.

New water-efficient plumbing fixtures in locker rooms. Minimum 2 toilets and 2 urinals for men and 2 toilets for 
women with 2 lavatories for each and 2 showers for each.

Replace mechanical equipment and water heaters 

Structural priority 1 upgrades 

Allowance for roof repairs – City staff have identified ongoing issues with roof leaking and water accumulation 
within the layers of the roof assembly.
Priority 2 Improvements: 

All-electric pool equipment and electrical service upgrade.

New all-electric kitchen meeting health department requirements for commercial kitchen, including grease trap, 
three-compartment sink, handwash sink, dry storage, new floor and wall finishes and washable ceiling finish.

New lighting throughout 

New courtyard paving and drainage

Structural priority 2 upgrades 
Resiliency Improvements: 

Electric water heating (included with Priority 1)

Add solar panels to all roof areas (included with Priority 1)

Standby power system (see electrical assessment—included with Priority 1)
5 of 326

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Total Planning-Level Project Budget to deliver Priority 1, 2, and Resiliency Improvements: $19.066 million.  This includes 
ELS’s construction cost estimate of $12.664 million and additional City-estimated soft costs (design, project/construction 
management, planning review/approval, permitting, environmental, health department compliance, etc.) of $2.910 million 
and a risk-based contingency (30 percent) of $3.492 million.
PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAR
The Public Works and Parks and Recreation Departments propose a phased approach to repair and upgrade the facilities.

Immediate Term (2025 and 2026 Summers): 
o
Joinville: Implement critical emergency repairs to maintain safe conditions and operate the pool facilities 
during the peak summer season. This includes replastering critical cracks. 
o
MLK: Ensure uninterrupted operation by completing emergency repairs to keep service available to the 
community.  This includes replacing the sand filter and a chemical pump.  
o
Anticipated costs for immediate term improvements at both sites is estimated at $500k.

Short Term: 
o
Joinville: After the 2025 summer operations complete, Joinville Pool will need to undergo code compliance 
upgrades. This would include a full replastering of the pool, separate filtration systems for the two pools, 
and upgrades to changing rooms.  This would be focused on necessary improvements to extend the useful 
life of the pool through the remainder of the City’s lease period (through 2040) for the adjacent park lands 
from the San Mateo Foster City School District.  Initial costs for detailed scoping of the necessary 
improvements are estimated at $200k.  Costs for the upgrades, to extend the useful life of this facility for 
an additional 10-15 years, are likely in excess of $2 million.  
o
MLK: Solicit proposals for community engagement and visioning for a new pool, resilience center, locker 
rooms, electrified equipment, and code-compliant filtration systems.  Initial cost estimates for the 
visioning/engagement process are $200k.  

Long Term: 
o
Joinville: With Joinville's lease set to expire in 2040, strategic discussions are required to determine the 
future of the facility, and potential operational models and facility options.  This may include looking at 
contract operators of aquatic operations and programming as an option for providing year-round 
programming as opposed to just seasonal.  
o
MLK:  Establish the King Center as a community resiliency center, which will serve as both a community 
resource and emergency response facility. This long-term vision supports the broader city goals to 
enhance community infrastructure for climate resilience and public health.  The City received a directed 
federal earmark of $850k toward this effort.  
EXPLORING PARTNERSHIPS WITH LOCAL INSTITUTIONS
In preparation for potential facility closures during renovations, the Parks and Recreation Department has engaged San 
Mateo High School, Aragon High School, Hillsdale High School, Serra High School, Highlands Recreation Center, Peninsula 
Jewish Community Center, King Swim Academy, Elks Lodge, and the College of San Mateo Aquatics. So far, Highlands 
Recreation Center, Elks Lodge and San Mateo High School have expressed interest in collaborating to provide swimming 
lessons and recreational swim opportunities, if needed.  San Mateo High School is the most likely backup choice due to the 
location in the North Central area. Operating out of San Mateo High School would incur a pool rental rate of $187/hour, 
plus a charge for at least 4 hours/day of a Certified Pool Operator ($60/hour) to test and maintain the pool's chemical 
levels. Total cost for use of the San Mateo High School pool in Summer 2025 for full programming both weekdays and 
weekends would be approximately $100,000 to $150,000.  Should staff determine it is not possible to open the MLK pool, 
staff will return with an agreement for council approval at a future meeting with the details and costs associated.
FEEDBACK FROM CITY COUNCIL:
Staff is seeking feedback from Council on three questions
1.
Does Council support taking the necessary steps to make immediate-term improvements at both Joinville and MLK 
pools to allow for operation of aquatic programming in Summer 2025?  This will require an appropriation of $500k 
from reserves as there is not existing budget to implement these improvements.  Costs may increase as additional 
critical issues may surface as the improvements are being made.
6 of 326

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
2.
Does Council support scoping the necessary upgrades to extend the useful life of the Joinville facility to coincide 
with the remainder of the City’s lease period for the adjacent parkland (2040)?  This will require an appropriation 
of $200k from reserves as there is not existing budget to perform this scoping assessment.  A further 
appropriation, likely over $2 million, is anticipated to implement the necessary upgrades.
3.
Does Council support initiating a community engagement and visioning process for upgrading the MLK facility to 
include pool renovations and upgrades to serve as the City’s resilience center?  This will require an appropriation 
of $200k from reserves for this effort as there is not existing budget to perform this engagement/visioning 
process. Initial estimates, as detailed above, are approximately $19 million for a full-scale renovation of the pool 
and addition of resilience features.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for providing feedback on this item. Any direction regarding appropriation of funds would be 
brought before the Council for consideration at a separate meeting. It should be noted that the City received federal 
earmark funding in the amount of $850,000 for MLK resiliency center improvements.   For any substantial multi-million-
dollar upgrades to City facilities, the City would likely have to pursue a future revenue measure. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This study session on pool conditions is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative 
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Joinville Swim Center Pool Assessment Report
Att 2 – King Pool Assessment Report
Att 3 – Usage and Financial Data
STAFF CONTACT
Matt Fabry, Public Works Director
mfabry@cityofsanmateo.org
650 522 7309
Joanne Magrini, Parks and Recreation Director
Jmagrini@cityofsanmateo.org
650 522 7404
7 of 326

--- page 8 ---
els

architecture—.
urban design

/ — > Cees. O.F

A a2

“© SAN MATEO
ey (=)

1) ~ |

Ee CcwA L! BOO RN IA

Joinville Swim Center

Existing Facilities Assessment


--- page 9 ---
9 of 326

--- page 10 ---
10 of 326

--- page 11 ---
11 of 326

--- page 12 ---
12 of 326

--- page 13 ---
13 of 326

--- page 14 ---
14 of 326

--- page 15 ---
15 of 326

--- page 16 ---
General Overview, Assessment &
e Cost Summary

el Ss architecture+
urban design

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 9
16 of 326


--- page 17 ---
17 of 326

--- page 18 ---
Architectural Assessment

General Description — Existing Conditions

The Joinville Swim Center, consisting of a locker room
and office building, and two outdoor swimming pools,
was designed by August E. Waegemann, civil engineer,
and built in 1968. A 1987-89 addition and remodel
expanded the central area of the locker room/office
building to the east to create an enlarged office and
administrative area. Another addition (for which
drawings are not available, but presumably also
constructed at the same time) expanded the building
to the north to add a multi-purpose meeting room
(See plan diagram on following page).

Building: The configuration of locker rooms and
pool equipment rooms appear largely unchanged
from the original design, except for some minor
reconfiguration of toilet partitions to provide
accessible toilet stalls, and some modifications

to provide accessible showers (including an open
shower with a fold-down seat in the men’s locker
room, and a separate accessible shower stall in the
women’s locker room).

Walls are constructed of painted concrete unit
masonry, and the exposed roof structure is made of
wood T&G decking spanning between exposed wood
beams. There are aluminum transom windows in the
locker room areas, and the remodeled office area
has aluminum storefront glazing. The facility generally
appears somewhat worn and is very basic by today’s
standards. The original building drawings indicate
there is no insulation in walls or ceilings.

Pools and pool deck: The pool deck is made

of concrete and has widespread cracking and
unevenness, possibly caused by leaks in underground
piping and seismic activity. Portions of the pool deck
have been covered with a gray coating in an attempt
to repair the cracks. Please see the Pool Assessment
section of this report for additional information.
There is one exit gate with panic hardware leading off
the pool deck area towards the street.

The lap pool is 82’-6” (25 meters) long by 44’. wide
with six lanes. Depth ranges from 4 feet minimum to
6-3” at the deepest point, and the pool water area
is 3,630 square feet. The rec pool is 60 ft. long by 30
ft. wide with a pool water area of 1,800 square feet,
and a depth of 3’-9” at the deepest point. A detailed
assessment of the condition of the pools and pool
equipment is included elsewhere in this report.

In addition, mechanical, electrical and plumbing
evaluations are also included in other sections of this
report

1987-89 Multiourpose Room Addition

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study

18 of 326


--- page 19 ---
8}

Mesrace cra Liiva Feme|

— —

a
PP 7 RS
£40"

GATES
SUNTO S-é d

PIOW {NS SFR /L?
ad ae

!
a" ala

LAVA AREA

Sve ceage ~hker. fala’
Fer Serk Ae Be

PERUIETER OF Pook
a Slee pets!

or

‘ Grereat Joc
\ PIVIDIMNG Ge
AS SH OK OS,
Fx ler EAI
BREORT FIN) Sh
IA THE OP:

SWIMMING POOL

SEE SHEET 217 FOR PLOHS
AND SECTIONS

TYP, Peck BECK ~ FU THICK,
a COC. REZNFORECED 1TH

6x6" "Yo VWIELBED WIRE (46516

9)

80" HGH RUSTAKE "CH Ee f
ee ee

|
|
ii
+!
|
*

LAWN AREA

|

TS

os, ! * Woy yi
nna a -

NL Ble"H GH “RUSTAKE CHAIN:

eR ENS |) TEE 1H EF
shoes Fo eurezr
CRA

EXISTING
SERVICE GATES

e4-o" :

SITE PLAN / FLOOR PLAN DIAGRAM
EXISTING CONDITIONS

CITY OF SAN MATEO
JOINVILLE POOL

ELS ARCHITECTURE AND URBAN DESIGN
4/17/2024

0G epwore Weare

YH

12

19 of 326


--- page 20 ---
Bho"

Ee? Al kid” (OEM ES

aoe

“| EXISTING SERVICE
GATES

TZAINING FOOL.

SEE SHEET #/6& FoR
PLAN AND SECTIONS 2

as!"

£EO TUN, SISCE EPEC.)

FoR AM SPUARES APP OX,

MH SQUARE WITH A HEAVY —
1, BRUSHING ADTACENT SPVARES|
SIE DLR ECHO.

TRASH

ENCLOSURE

yj
iS]
| |

eet come £x,
TR iw n-hE DE a2 0

(rye)
=

VA

an i i
scuks Sorradre i
Specs curr
SEE DET. OL

Teaco cell oe (E) POOL
| EXIT TO POOL | EQUIPMENT

Be-AN

AREA OF 1987/89
REMODEL AND
ADDITION

\CTIVITY ROOM |

EO ee pe

AUGUST E. WAEGEMANN
CIVIL ENGINEER

20 SECOND STREET SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA 94105

REVISIONS

| anole ete earn

BAYSIDE SWIMMING POOL
CITY OF SAN MATEO RECREATION DEPT.
KEHOE AVE. AT ROBERTA Di. SAN MATEO, CALIF.
DECK PLAN

3
DRAWN

708 No.
MLT M4G@!

fe

SU 1-8535

Joinville Site Diagram - Existing Building

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study
20 of 326


--- page 21 ---
Building Code Assessment

General Code Requirements: The 2022 California
Building Code (CBC) and the 2022 California Existing
Building Code (CEBC) govern alterations and
additions to existing buildings. In general, existing
buildings are not required to be brought up to
current code standards except when undergoing
major alterations (consisting of at least 50% of the
floor area) or a change of use. When alterations are
undertaken, the code states that “alterations shall be
such that the existing building...is no less complying
with the [building code] than the existing building...
was prior to the alteration” (CEBC 503.1).

Accessibility: The section cited above
notwithstanding, the code does require that when

a building is altered, the facility must comply with
requirements for accessibility to the maximum extent
feasible. (If alterations are deemed “technically
infeasible” then other alternate provisions may apply.)

For the Joinville Swim Center, this means that there
are relatively few code-mandated upgrades since
modifications were made in the past to provide
accessible toilets. The existing accessible showers
however, may not comply with current code
requirements, especially in the men’s locker room,
since it does not have walls on three sides.

The code also requires that in the event of alterations
affecting an area containing a primary function such
as, for example, the swimming pools at Joinville, an
accessible route must be provided to the primary
function, including toilet facilities and drinking
fountains. An accessible route appears to be in place
at the Joinville Center, but some modifications may
be needed to improve accessibility if major upgrades
are made to the swimming pools. The cost of these
alterations for accessibility would be limited to 20%
of the cost of the alterations affecting the area of
primary function (i.e. 20% of the cost of the pool
repairs).

Note: Detailed measurements to determine whether
ADA clearance requirements are met for toilet
rooms and paths of travel were beyond the scope
of this study. Depending on the extent of alterations
undertaken, there may need to be a more detailed
assessment of accessibility as a part of future work.

Womens Locker Room

Men’ Locker Room

21 of 326


--- page 22 ---
Recommended Code Upgrades:

While the CEBC will not require significant code
upgrades to the Joinville Swim Center, the existing
building does not meet the requirements of the
current California Building Code in a number of ways
and some voluntary upgrades should be undertaken,
including the following:

e Upgrade Pool Deck Exiting: For new facilities, the
CBC requires exits to be provided from a pool
deck based on the assumption that the pool itself
is fully occupied with 50 square feet per occupant
and the pool deck is fully occupied with 15 square
feet per occupant. For the Joinville pool, this
would result in a total of over 1,000 occupants
requiring a minimum of 4 exits equipped with
panic hardware for a total of more than 18 feet
if exit width. There is currently one exit gate
provided from the pool deck providing about four
feet of exit width. Providing additional exit gates
around the perimeter fencing should be a high
priority improvement. (Refer to the site visit notes
included in the appendix of this report for more
detail about code requirements and how the pool
exit width is calculated).

¢ As noted above, accessible showers and toilets as
well as lavatories and mirrors should be checked
to ensure that they meet the dimensional
requirements of the CBC, and modifications
made accordingly. Providing a new accessible
shower in the Men’s Locker Room should be a
high priority improvement.

¢ Accessible paths of travel should be checked to
ensure that they meet width requirements, door =
swing clearances and level floor requirements, Accessible Shower At Men’ Locker Room
and any deficiencies corrected.

Owner and Staff Priorities

In meetings with City staff and operations and
maintenance personnel, we heard the following
priorities expressed for Joinville pool:
Updating the pools and pool systems is the
highest priority.

e All-electrical pool and space heating is a priority
since this is City policy for all city-owned
facilities.

* Providing family/gender neutral changing rooms is
a priority.

e Increase hours and months of operation beyond
the current schedule (which is summer only) to
a year-round facility, and offer more programs.
Renovated pools with updated, energy efficient
pool mechanical systems would be a big step
towards achieving this goal.

Men’ Locker Room

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 15
22 of 326


--- page 23 ---
Structure

IDA Structural Engineers has performed a Tier 1
structural analysis of the building which indicates
that the facility could suffer significant damage

in a seismic event. Recommended retrofits,
including strengthening ties between the structure
and masonry walls, as well as repair of existing
deteriorated wood framing members are outlined
in the structural report included in this document.
Further, a Tier 2 analysis (which is beyond the scope
of this report) is recommended.

———
j

YSerere rr

Typical Building Structure: Cmu Walls And Glula
Windows

Additional Building Improvements:

In addition to the improvements described above,
the facility should be painted throughout, inside
and out with patching and repairs as needed. The
condition of the roof and other typical maintenance
considerations were not assessed for this study.

Building System Upgrades:

The following sections of this report address
recommended upgrades for mechanical, electrical,
plumbing, and pool systems. Many of the system
components and related piping have been in place
since the building was originally built and are past the
end of their useful life. These should be replaced with
updated, energy efficient technology, including the
following:

e Replace existing gas-fired heaters with heat
pump systems. Add mechanical makeup air and
ventilation (currently the only ventilation is via
operable windows).

* Replace the existing electrical service (priority
2 upgrade). The electrical service will require
upgrading if both new all-electric pool systems
and all-electric building mechanical systems
are installed. Replace lighting with new energy
efficient lighting (included in cost estimate as a
Priority 2 upgrade).

¢ Replace plumbing fixtures and water heater as
described in Plumbing section of this report. Add
new valves and hot water recirculating loop.

23 of 326


--- page 24 ---
Pool and Pool Mechanical System Upgrades:

Replace pool mechanical systems, equipment, and
piping, and repair pool cracks as described in the
Swimming pool section of this report. Swimming pool
water is comingled between the two pools, which is
not allowed under current codes. Existing piping is
too small, and pool mechanical systems are out of
date. In addition, the pool needs to be re-plastered
and the gutter system replaced. The pool deck,
which is cracked and in need of repair, will need to be
replaced when the pool piping is replaced. Please see
the Swimming Pool Needs assessment for additional
information and detail.

Pool Deck Cracking and Drainage ksues

As a part of the replacement of the pool equipment,
the existing pool equipment room needs to be
remodeled and enlarged. This will require about a
625 square foot addition to the existing building,

in addition to the remodel of the existing pool
equipment room. (See diagram)

Family/Gender-Neutral Changing Room

As mentioned above, it is a high priority for the
City of San Mateo to incorporate a family changing
room into the facility. The most straight-forward
way to do this appears to be to incorporate a new
family changing room in an area of the existing

pool equipment room, which as mentioned above,
will need to be altered and expanded for new pool
equipment. This option is incorporated into the cost
estimate. However, a possible second option would
be to take space out of the existing shower area of
the women’s locker room to create a new family
changing room with a door opening directly onto
the pool deck. This option would require about 120
square feet of space (minimum) and would need
further study to determine if there is enough space
available.

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study

24 of 326

17


--- page 25 ---
25 of 326

--- page 26 ---
PRIORITY 1

|Component s—“‘“C‘éwrLOCOCOC#C#COC#éStimmatte™
Building Addition and Remodel $1,772,000

Pools (not including pool deck) $4,372,000
Sitework (including pool deck $143,000
$6,287,000

PRIORITY 2
[Component | timate

Add for Locker Room interior remodel and $1,434,208
new lighting

Add for All-electric pool equipment and $165,337
electrical service upgrade

TOTAL ADD $1,599,545

For more detail, please see Mack5 cost estimate breakdown included in section 9 of this report.

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study
26 of 326


--- page 27 ---
301 5

\ool 5"
4AM

WA

PRINTED ON DIEPO NO. 10008 CLEARPRINT

7A7®

oto" NN
GATES

SUNTG 5-2

+

NEW 6'-0" WIDE
GATES WITH PANIC.
HARDWARE IN (E)
CHAIN LINK FENCE

j
il
ii
NEW EXIT WALKWAY -

CONNECT TO (E) PATH IN
PARK

PI OWIMS STR Sl?
Cale F par ee

LAWN AREA

Sve gcRADE keV. /a/.0"
Fer cork ng Sr

PERUIETER, OFF Poh
voles

BECK Shek

ait a Bte" M180

+ ge 4 cena
;

te i 22" a _

Ter om ECR
elev. sors!

i
SWIMMING FOOL
SEE SHEET 217 FOR PLOHS
PND SECTIONS

TYP, Peek DECK ~F" THICK
SOMC. REGNFORCED WITH
esc" Yoo WIECBED WIRE (AES

NV TYP 1 CAL Fa
BYVIDING Op
~ AS SHOW,
FUSS EA:
BROOM EIN 54
WA THE OPP

8!0" 164 "RUSTAKE (CHAE
Lo Lease wee, See 7-24

LAVIN AREA

SITE PLAN / FLOOR PLAN DIAGRAM
COST ESTIMATING SCOPE NOTES

CITY OF SAN MATEO
JOINVILLE POOL

ELS ARCHITECTURE AND URBAN DESIGN

2/28/2024

a-7'he

Carer

NEW HIGH/LOW
DRINKING FOUNTAINS
TO REPLACE (E) SINGLE
(NON-ACCESSIBLE)
FOUNTAIN

cnr sa Ae
4LE4. fot. S~

NU Bte"arew “Rus
knw ~Enee |)

Shoes Fo euceze
Caan

EXISTING
SERVICE GATES

&4to"

NEW 6'-0"
GATES W
HARDWA\
CHAIN LIM

Repvarm Hearee

20

27 of 326


--- page 28 ---
2th"

7 asta Lic EME

/ POOL DECK

SEE POOL

DRAINAGE - ASSESSMENT FOR
POOL WORK REQUIRED
ESSMENT

GATES

“| EXISTING SERVICE |-

fF

NEW 6'-0" WIDE
GATES WITH PANIC
HARDWARE IN (E)

CHAIN LINK FENCE

LED TUN SASEE SHES.
ny le al BYES Le)

TZAINING FOOL.

See SHEET #16 FoR
PLAN AND SECTIONS

Preek COYNE EXO.
ae Bez a-20

(rye)

(N) POOL
EQUIPMENT

ACTIVITY ROOM

WIDE

ITH PANIC
RE IN (E)
WK FENCE

EXISTING 1968
LOCKER ROOMS.
PROVIDE MINOR
~~ | ACCESSIBILITY
UPGRADES AND
NEW PAINT

AUTOMATIC DOOR
OPERATORS AT
LOCKER ROOM

Seeger
SEG DET. OL

Scurs gorr dee.

(E) POOL
EQUIPMENT

Fa Gare
Eo =F

NEW 6'-0" WIDE
GATES WITH PANIC
HARDWARE IN (E) |
CHAIN LINK FENCE ||

NEW POOL EQUIPMENT
SPACE APPROX. 750
SF- SEE POOL
ASSESSMENT

EXISTING POOL
EQUIPMENT SPACE
TO BE EXPANDED
AND REMODELED -
SEE POOL
ASSESSMENT

NEW FAMILY
CHANGING ROOM
IN EXISTING POOL
EQUIPMENT ROOM
APPROX. 125 SF

|
AREA OF 1987/89

REMODEL AND
ADDITION

PROVIDE NEW
ACCESSIBLE
SHOWER IN MEN'S
LOCKER ROOM

AUGUST E. WAEGEMANN

CIVIL ENGINEER

20 SECOND STREET

SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA 94105

SU 1-8535

DECK -PLAM

BAYSIDE SWIMMING POOL
CITY OF SAM MATEO fz
KEHOE AVE. AT ROBERTA Diz. SAN MATEO, CALIF.

CREATION DEFT,

Joinville Site Diagram - Cost Estimating Scope

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study

21
28 of 326


--- page 29 ---
29 of 326

--- page 30 ---
4 swimming Pool Assessment

DESIGN GROUP

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 23
30 of 326


--- page 31 ---
31 of 326

--- page 32 ---
Introduction

Aquatic Design Group (ADG) visited the Joinville Swim
Center in San Mateo, California on January 22, 2024
to perform an assessment of the swimming pools,

as well as their systems and equipment. The systems
were in operation during ADG’s site visit. The facility
has the following outdoor bodies of water:

¢ A25-meter swimming pool
¢ An 1,800 square foot teaching pool

Staff representing the City of San Mateo met with
ADG during the site visit.

The following report includes a summary of the
existing conditions, code violations, deficiences and
proposed improvements for rehabilitation of the
Joinville Swim Center and related equipment. The
scope of this report includes the swimming pools,
deck area and pool mechanical equipment. It ex-
cludes the structural integrity of the swimming pool
shells, pool appurtenances, and accessibility in the
path of travel to the swimming pool area and within
the adjacent building. Note this also excludes eval-
uation of the building, building systems and building
structural. It is possible that a facility of this age could
have underlying issues that have gone unnoticed by
staff and are not apparent to a visual inspection. This
report attempts to provide an accurate and realistic
assessment of existing conditions. Our observations
are based upon the conditions we could observe and
information provided by staff. This report should be
read in full and has been prepared exclusively for the
City of San Mateo. No liability is accepted for any use of
or reliance on the report by third parties.

This report identifies any violations of codes that were
found. Some of these violations may currently be op-
erating on a grandfathered exemption, meaning they
complied with code when they were built but code
changes since make them not compliant with current
code. We therefore recommend that these issues

be reviewed on an individual basis to determine the
disposition and possible remedies for each violation.
Some violations may be due to modifications to the
code over the years. Providing that a violation is not
deemed an immediate health or safety risk the County
Environmental Health Services Department may allow
the violation to exist as a “grandfatherable condition”.
These grandfathered conditions are normally allowed
to exist until such time as when the facility is having
work done in which the scope of the work will allow for
the violation to be remedied. If such work were going
to take place, then the County Environmental Health
Services department would demand that the viola-
tions be brought into compliance. Given the subjective
nature of the interpretation of the code, violations

that may be deemed a grandfatherable violation at
one point may not be allowed at another time or by a
different inspector.

The estimated opinions of probable cost identified in
the itemized sections of this report include materials
and labor for the repair, but do not include architec-
tural or engineering design costs or complete project
soft costs that may occur. Structural analysis of the
pool structure, pool mechanical space, or other spac-
es will require destructive testing which is not includ-
ed in the scope of this report.

CITY OF SAN MATEO

JOINVILLE

Dedication Plaque for Facility

Swimming Pool

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 25

32 of 326


--- page 33 ---
Codes

For the purpose of this report the facility’s compli-
ance with current codes and standards will be exam-
ined. The current codes and standards that may apply
are:

¢ Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility
Guidelines for Buildings and Facilities (ADAAG)

* Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)

* California Plumbing Code (CPC), 2022 Edition

* California Building Code (CBC), Chapter 31B, 2022
Edition

* California Mechanical Code (CMC), 2022 Edition

¢ International Fire Code (IFC), 2022 Edition

¢ International Swimming Pool and Spa Code (ISPSC)
Standards, 2021 Edition

¢ Model Aquatic Health Code (MAHC), 2023 Edition

¢ Pool and Hot Tub Alliance Standards (PHTA)

¢ Federal Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and Spa Safe-
ty Act (VGBA)

* California AB1020 (AB1020)

¢ Occupational Safety and Health Administration
(OSHA)

Swimming Pools Data

The Joinville Swim Center was built in 1968. The data
compiled in this section of the report is based upon
information from original drawings and staff as well as
images taken by ADG and observations made during
the site visit.

25-Meter Swimming Pool:

Dimensions: 82’-6” long x 44’-0” wide (per draw-
ings)

Perimeter: 253 linear feet (per drawings)

Surface Area: 3,630 square feet (per drawings)
Volume: 148,000 gallons (per staff)

25-Meter Lanes: Six (6), 7’-O” in width (per drawings)
Depths: 4’-6” to 6’-0” (per depth markers ob-
served)

Finish: Plaster and tile (observed during site visit)
In-Pool Lights: Eight (8) (per drawings)

Pool Main Drains: Two (2) 24” x 24” to draw water
from the pool bottom for recirculation (per staff)

* Gutter: “J” scum gutter with skimmers system (ob-
served during site visit)

Ingress and Egress: Four (4) sets of grabrails with
steps (observed during site visit)

Floor Inlets: Fifteen (15) (per drawings)

Code Minimum Flow Rate: 411 Gallons Per Minute
(GPM) (Using 6-Hour Turnover)

Code Minumum Turnover Rate: 6-hours

Actual Flow Rate: 400 GPM (per staff)

Actual Turnover Rate: 6.17-hours (per calculations)
Design Flow Rate: Unknown

Design Turnover Rate: 8-hours (per staff)

Training Pool:

Dimensions: 60’-0” long x 30’-0” wide (per draw-
ings)

Perimeter: 180 linear feet (per drawings)

Surface Area: 1,800 square feet (per drawings)
Volume: 42,000 gallons (per staff)

Depths: 2’-0” to 3’-6” (per depth markers observed)
Finish: Plaster and tile (observed during site visit)
In-Pool Lights: Four (4) (per drawings)

Pool Main Drains: Two (2) 24” x 24” to draw water
from the pool bottom for recirculation (per staff)

* Gutter: “J” scum gutter with skimmers system (ob-
served during site visit)

Ingress and Egress: Two (2) sets of grabrails with
steps (observed during site visit)

Floor Inlets: Eight (8) (per drawings)

Code Minimum Flow Rate: 117 Gallons Per Minute
(GPM) (Using 6-Hour Turnover)

Code Minumum Turnover Rate: 6-hours

Actual Flow Rate: 400 GPM (per staff)

Actual Turnover Rate: 1.75-hours (per calculations)
Design Flow Rate: Unknown

Design Turnover Rate: 8-hours (per staff)

26

33 of 326


--- page 34 ---
Swimming Pools Data Cont’d

Mechanical and Chemical Systems: (Observed Durin
Site Visit)

* High-Rate Sand (H.R.S.) Filter Tanks (x2)
+ Make: EPD
+ Model: Unknown
- Total Filter Surface Area: 27 FT?
- Filter Media Rate: 14.81 GPM / FT? at
400 GPM
¢ Recirculation Pump
» Make: Paco A
+ Model: Unknown yy \
+ Horsepower: 15 a
¢ Recirculation Motor Filter Tanks for Poo's
+ Make: Baldor Reliance
+ Model: Unknown
+ Horsepower: 15
¢ Hair and Lint Strainer
+ Make: Fluidtrol
+ Size: 4-inch
* Heating System (x4)
+ Make: Jandy
+ Model: EHE350NC
+ Total BTU Maximum Output: 1,400,000
+ Maximum Thermal Efficiency: 95%
¢ Variable Frequency Drive
+ Make: Pentair
+ Model: Unknown
¢ Chemical Control Monitor
+ Make: Strantrol
+ Model: System 5
* Sanitation
* Liquid Chlorine (Sodium Hypochlorite) bulk
tank
+ 500 gallon capacity
* Two (2) Blue-White A-100N chemical metering
pumps: 95.1 gallons per day feed rate capacity
each
* pH Control
* Liquid Acid (Hydrochloric Acid) drums (x2)
+ 55 gallon capacity each
+ Stenner 85M5 chemical metering pump: 85
gallons per day feed rate capacity
* Suction Pipe Size and Flow Velocity
- Pipe Size: 4-inch schedule 80 (swimming pool)
- Pipe Size: 3-inch schedule 80 (training pool)
- Flow Velocity @ 400 GPM (4-inch): 11.47 Feet
Per Second (FPS)
- Flow Velocity @ 400 GPM (3-inch): 19.94 FPS
¢ Return Pipe Size and Flow Velocity
- Pipe Size: 4-inch schedule 80 (swimming pool)
- Pipe Size: 2”?-inch schedule 80 (training pool)
- Flow Velocity @ 400 GPM (4-inch): 11.47 FPS
- Flow Velocity @ 400 GPM (22-inch): 31.2 FPS
> Alarm

pH Feed

Chemical Control Monitor for Pools

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 27
34 of 326


--- page 35 ---
Programming

The Joinville Swim Center supports the San Mateo
community through the following programs:

+ Recreational Swimming

+ Lap Swimming

+ Leisure Swimming

+ Adult, Teen and Youth Learn-To-Swim Pro
grams

+ Aquatic Fitness Classes

+ Youth Club Swim Team Practices

+ Lane Rentals

+ Party Rentals

The Joinville Swim Center is a seasonal facility that
operates June through August. Staff have expressed
interest in being open year-round or for a longer sea-
son. The swimming pool does not support traditional
25-yard swimming due to its 25-meter configuration,
which according to staff has its pros and cons. One
pro is that swim teams are not particularly interest-
ed in using the facility, allowing it to mostly be used
for community programs. If the pool were to have a
longer season or be open year-round the City would
have a difficult time offering their own swim programs
and / or renting their lanes to swim programs to offset
operating costs. In a future renovation of the pools
the dimensions and depths should be analyzed to
determine how best to support existing and future
desired programs.

Code Concerns

ADG has determined that the following seven (7) items
at the Joinville Swim Center do not comply with cur-
rent code standards. For each item within the report
a description of the condition is given along with a
reference to the code that applies. A suggestion of
possible remedy and an opinion of probable cost is
given for most items. The itemized estimates include
materials and labor for the repair but not architectur-
al or engineering design costs / complete project soft
costs that may occur and are typically added to any
project for a total construction project cost.

ITEM DESCRIPTION

Comingled Pools
Flow Velocity for Pools
Finish for Pools

_ Deck for Pools
ADA Access for Pools

os “J” Gutter System for Pools

Safety Signage for Pools

1.1 Comingled Pools

Both Joinville Swim Center pools operate on the same
recirculation system despite being separate bodies of
water. California code requires each pool to have its
own recirculation system. The comingled pools are in
violation of CBC, Chapter 31B:

3123B.1. System description. Each poo! shall
be provided with a separate recirculation
system designed for the continuous
recirculation, filtration and disinfection of the
pool water. The system shall consist of pumps,
filters, chemical feeders, skimmers or perim-
eter overflow systems, valves, pipes, connec-
tions, fittings and appurtenances.

To separate the pools requires installing new piping
and corresponding mechanical / chemical equip-
ment to operate each individual pool. The existing
mechanical room is not large enough to accommo-
date additional equipment. At minimum an additional
625 square feet of building space is needed for new
equipment. The following estimate is for the minimal
additional building space, excluding utility and any
required site demolition costs.

(New Mechanical / Chemical Building Estimated
Cost- $500,000.00)

28

35 of 326


--- page 36 ---
Code Concerns Cont’d

The following estimated cost is for new mechanical
and chemical equipment for both bodies of water.
The estimated cost includes electric resistance heat-
ers for the pools (total of 684 kWh), but excludes solar
and other infrastructure to support electric heating.
Those costs are provided by ELS in another portion of
this report.

(New Mechanical / Chemical Equipment Estimated
Cost- $775,000.00)

The existing mechanical / chemical spaces have failing
room finishes. Failing doors and deteriorating con-
crete are present. An allowance is provided for finish
improvements.

(Existing Mechanical / Chemical Room Finish
Improvements Allowance- $75,000.00)

Un-comingling the pools would require demolition of
the deck and the pools to accommodate new pipes.
The pools would need to be refinished and the deck
replaced. The costs for piping, pool finishes and a new
deck are presented in sections 1.2, 1.3 and 1.4.

1.2 Flow Velocity for Pools

The flow velocity for the suction and return piping at
400 Gallons Per Minute (GPM) is 11.47 Feet Per Second
(FPS) for the swimming pool and 19+ FPS for the train-
ing pool. All exceed the allowances in CBC, Chapter
31B:

3125B.1. Line sizes. Pipes shall be sized so
flow velocity of piping systems including

all pipes and fittings other than inlet devices
or venturi throats shall not exceed 6 feet per
second in any suction or copper piping and

8 feet per second in any portion of the return
system.

Although a grandfathered code concern high flow
velocities can erode pipes and either cause leaking or
replacement ahead of typical lifecycles. Both pools
are currently leaking. Old standards allowed PVC pipe
velocities of up to 10 feet per second. With extra
diligence the system can continue to operate at the
current velocity. This code concern, however; would
be rectified if the pools were un-comingled (section
1.1). New piping would be installed under the pools,
under the deck and in the mechanical room. New
piping would address return line leaks that have been
uncovered in the past by leak detection professionals.
New piping would also address any concerns about
turnover rate. According to staff the pools may not
be achieving a 6-hour turnover on a consistent basis.

CBC, Chapter 31B requires a 6-hour turnover for all
swimming pools. The following estimated cost is for
new suction and return piping for both pools.

(New Piping Estimated Cost- $350,000.00)

a
Suction Line to Strainer and Pump

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 29

36 of 326


--- page 37 ---
Code Concerns Cont’d
1.3 Finish for Pools

The surfaces of both pools are showing significant
signs of age. The surfaces have stains, missing plaster
and heavy cracking. According to staff both pools are
leaking and the cracking is believed to be the most
significant cause of the leaking. Return pipe failures
are also contributing to the leaking. The tile in the
pools is in decent condition but would be replaced
during a pool finish replacement project. The swim-
ming pool is, however; missing a code-required 4’-6”
line of tile. This line can be added during a pool finish
replacement project. The missing line is in violation of
CBC, Chapter 31B:

3110B.3. Depth marking line. There shall be
installed a straight line of slip resistant

tile a minimum of 4 inches and not greater
than 6 inches wide of a color constrasting
with the background of the pool shell across
the bottom of the pool where the water
depth is 4” feet. Exception: Pools having a
maximum water depth of 5 feet or less shall
not be required to have a depth marking line.

According to staff the plaster for the pools was
replaced in 2014. The heavy cracking in the pools is
believed to be due to seismic activity and repeatedly
gets repaired during replasters. Over time, the crack-
ing reappears. The National Plasterers Association
states that swimming pool plaster should be expect-
ed to last between 12-15 years under normal condi-
tions. Because of the failing plaster the finish for both
pools is in violation of CBC, Chapter 31B:

3108B.2. Finish. The finished pool shell shall
be lined with a smooth waterproof interior
finish that will withstand repeated brushing,
scrubbing, and cleaning procedures. The
interior pool finish shall completely line the
pool to the tile lines, coping, or cantilevered
deck.

As plaster ages water gets closer to the underly-

ing structure of the pool shell and the result can be
oxidation and deterioration of the steel rebar which
can increase the risk of leaks and structural failure
of the pool shell. A failing pool finish may also harbor
pathogens, which could affect the health and safety
of patrons.

The plaster and tile finishes for the pools should be
replaced. New finishes for the pools will improve
safety for patrons and help protect against leaks and
structural concerns. The industry standard for pool
plaster is to use a quartz-based plaster with tile. The
following estimate includes removal of all existing

previous pool finishes to bare concrete, substantial
crack repair and the installation of new plaster and
tile finishes. The new tile for the swimming pool would
include all floor and wall lane markings as well as
waterline tile. The new tile for the training pool would
include all waterline tile. The estimate is also reflec-
tive of costs associated with draining and refilling the
pools with water, as well as balancing the chemicals.
Lastly, the estimate also includes new VGBA compli-
ant main drain covers. Sometimes in older pools as
existing plaster is removed underlying conditions can
be worse than expected and consequently increase
both the scope and cost of a plaster renovation.

(New Finishes for Pools Es-
timated Cost-
$375,000.00)

Alternative pool finishes to plaster and tile include
fiberglass, liners and Myrtha’s RenovAction system. If
the City of San Mateo is interested in cost information
for alternative finishes ADG can update this section of
the report.

Because of the code concerns in sections 1.1 and 1.2
the pool finishes would need to be replaced anyways.
The concrete below the plaster in both pools would
be sawcut to accommodate new under pool piping.
The combination of new piping, crack repair and new
plaster would remedy leaking and code concerns.

Crack in Plaster in Swimming Pool

50

37 of 326


--- page 38 ---
Code Concerns Cont’d 1.4 Deck for Pools

The deck around the pools is showing significant
signs of wear and fatigue. Some portions of the deck
were coated in 2018 to mitigate failures in the under-
lying concrete. Contributing factors to the failures
are believed to be seismic activity and leaking pipes
(return pipes and deck drainage pipes). Deck coat-
ings are a short-term application in comparison to a
medium-broom finish concrete. Deck coatings have a
typical lifespan of 2-5 years, depending on the prod-
uct chosen. Facilities typically use them as a solution
to buy time between deck replacements. Medium-
broom finish concrete has a typical lifespan of 20-25
years. Cracks in the coating and concrete surface are
visible throughout and many areas have missing deck
coating and concrete as well as height differentials,
particularly at area drains, over joints (expansion and
control joints in the below concrete) and where the
deck meets the pool coping. These failures are rough
on feet and can create slip, trip and fall hazards. In
addition to the failing deck coating and concrete
there are several areas where rust has leeched into
and onto the coating and concrete. The failing deck
for the pools is in violation of CBC, Chapter 31B:

Crack in Plaster in Swimming Pool

5114B.1. General. A minimum continuous and
unobstructed 4-foot wide slip resistant,
cleanable, nonabrasive deck area of con-
crete or like material shall be provided flush
with the top of the pool coping extending
completely around the pool,

According to staff the majority of the deck drainage
no longer functions. The drainage piping is believed
to be cast-iron and has likely deteriorated over time.
A new deck with drainage is needed not only for
safety reasons but to address the code concerns in
sections 1.1 and 1.2. The following estimated cost is for
a new deck with drainage. The deck would include a
medium-broom finish concrete with slot drains and
slopes of no less than 1 percent and no greater than
2 percent. Required depth and safety markers, demo
of the existing deck and new deck anchors are also
included in the estimated cost.

(New Deck with Drainage Estimated Cost-
$500,000.00)

Depth markers with fractions in them are present
at the pools. The fractions are in violation of CBC,
Chapter 31B:

5110B.4.4. Size of markers. Depth markers
shall: 1. Have numerals a minimum of 4 inches
in height and of a color contrasting with the
background and be marked in units of feet
and inches. Abbreviations of FT and IN may
be used in lieu of feet and inches;

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 31
38 of 326


--- page 39 ---
Code Concerns Cont’d

The depth markers would be replaced during a deck
replacement project. Should the City wish to replace
the depth markers outside of a deck replacement
project an allowance is provided.

(New Depth Marker Allowance- $6,000.00)

Crack in Deck Around Drain

Cracks in Deck

39 of 326


--- page 40 ---
Code Concerns Cont’d
1.5 ADA Access for Pools

Both of the pools do not have ADA compliant access.
Any swimming pool under 300 linear perimeter feet
needs one (1) means of ADA compliant entry. A com-
pliant sloped entry or lift qualify as a primary means
of accessible entry. A transfer wall, transfer system
or accessible stairs qualify as a secondary means of
accessible entry. Pools in excess of 300 linear pe-
rimeter feet need two (2) means of ADA compliant
entry (one [1] primary and one [1] secondary or two
[2] primary).

Based on the dimensions of the pools and the ADA
and ADAAG requirements the pools each need one
(1) accessible means of entry. Chair lifts can serve

as the primary accessible means of entry for each
pool if anchored and affixed to the deck any time
the pool is open for use. They should be installed on
the deck at each pool where the water depth is not
greater than 48 inches (4’-0”) and there is sufficient
deck clearance (60” diameter). In addition, stairs with
a dual ADA compliant handrail can be added to each
pool during a pool deck and pool finish replacement
project. The following estimated cost is for two (2)
lifts and two (2) sets of stairs, all ADA compliant.

(New Lifts and Stairs for Pools Estimated Cost-
$100,000.00)

Example of ADA Chair Lift

——— —

<
> 4

and Stairs

Example of Dual ADA Handrail

1.6 “J” Gutter System for Pools

Both pools have a “J” scum gutter system with skim-
mers. The combination is not only unusual but most
pool professionals consider it a safety hazard by
today’s standards. The gutter and skimmers can be
considered a protrusion or projection, which is in
violation of CBC, Chapter 31B:

5108B.4. Projections and recessed areas. The
pool shell shall not have projections or
recessed areas except for pool inlets and
outlets as specified in Section 3137B.

Modern skimmers and gutters do not allow for feet to
easily slip into them and cause potential injury. Mod-
ern gutter systems are also designed to accommo-
date not less than 100 percent of the flow rate of the
pool. The existing gutters are not able to accomplish
this and are in violation of CBC, Chapter 31B:

3136B. Pool Skimming Systems. The pool shall
be equipped with one or more skimming
methods to provide continuous skimming of
the pool water and shall be capable of con-
tinually withdrawing not less than 100 percent
of the flow rate.

It is ADG’s recommendation to remove and replace
the gutter system for both pools. The addition of this
renovation item also makes sense given the items

in sections 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.4. Replacing the gutter
system for both pools requires draining the pools,
demolition to the decks and demoing the pool shells.
New concrete walls would have to be constructed,
and preferably a skimmer gutter system installed.

To complete this scope the pool piping, pool plaster
finishes and pool decks would have to be replaced.
Converting the pools to traditional skimmer pools
would eliminate the need for surge tanks. The existing
surge tank does not meet OSHA safety standards for
access and confined space. The following estimated
cost is for new skimmer gutter systems for both pools

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 33

40 of 326


--- page 41 ---
Code Concerns Cont’d

and the filling in of the existing surge tank with con-
crete.

(New Skimmer Gutter Systems Estimated
Cost- $430,000.00)

“? Gutter with Skimmer in TrainingPool

Example of Skimmer Gutter System

1.7 Safety Signage for Pools

The mechanical room at the Joinville Swim Center
houses sodium hypochlorite and muriatic acid. Both
chemicals have their own space within the room. The
chemicals are corrosives and health hazards. There
is only an NFPA safety sign on the doors to warn of
the presence of the acid. The doors should also have
NFPA safety signage to warn about the presence of
the chlorine. In addition, there should also be NFPA
safety signs on the chlorine tank and the acid drums
themselves. The lack of sufficient NFPA signage is in
violation of Chapter 50 of the International Fire Code:

5003.5 Hazard identification signs. Unless
otherwise exempted by the fire code official,
visible hazard identification signs as speci-
fied in NFPA 704 for the specific material con-
tained shall be placed on stationary contain-
ers and above-ground tanks and at entrances
to locations where hazardous materials are
stored, dispensed, used or handled in
guantities requiring a permit and at specific
entrances and locations designated by the fire
code official.

The required signage should be purchased and
installed. The following estimate is for sodium hypo-
chlorite and hydrochloric acid placard signage.

(NFPA Safety Signage Estimated Cost- $1,000.00)

In addition to NFPA safety signage there is also some
code-required facility safety signage missing and
therefore in violation of CBC, Chapter 31B. The re-
quired signage is listed in 3120B.1 - 11 and the required
signs applicable to these pools include:

- Pool User Capacity Sign (observed)

- No Diving Sign (not observed)

: Artificial Respiration and Cardiopulmonary
Resuscitation Sign (not observed)

- Emergency Sign (observed)

- Keep Closed Sign (not observed)

- Diarrhea Sign (not observed)

All signs shall comply with 3120B.1:

All signs shall have clearly legible letters or
numbers not less than 4 inches high, unless
otherwise required in this section (3120B), af-
fixed to a wall, pole, gate or similar perma-
nent structure in a location visible to all pool
users.

The facility safety signage should be updated to in-
clude the missing signs. The following estimate is for
new signage.

34

41 of 326


--- page 42 ---
Code Concerns Cont’d

(New Signage Estimated Cost-
$4,000.00)

PERSONS HAVING CURRENTLY ACTIVE

DIARRHEA OR WHO HAVE HAD ACTIVE
DIARRHEA WITHIN THE PREVIOUS
14 DAYS SHALL NOT BE ALLOWED

TO ENTER THE POOL WATER

“Diarrhea” Sign to Purchase

3 | :
) |
Existing NFPA Sign on Mechanical Room Door

nu
2
YL]

Existing NFPA Sign on Mechanical Room Door “No Diving” Sign to Purchase

KEEP GATE

Arpprury
NERGENCY

TED

Existing Pool Capacity and 911 Signs

ee ee ee en ee |
“Keep Closed Sign” to Purchase

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 35
42 of 326


--- page 43 ---
Maintenance Concerns 2.2 Deck Electrical Outlets

The following two (2) items are maintenance During ADG’s site visit the facility did not appear to
items for operations at the Joinville Swim Center. have functioning on-deck electrical outlets for staff

A suggestion of possible remedy and an opinion to plug in the automatic pool vacuum. This concern
of probable cost is given. The itemized estimates should be investigated further. An allowance for re-
include materials and labor for the repair but not lated electrical work and materials is provided.
architectural or engineering design costs / com- .

plete project soft costs that may occur and are typ- (Deck Electrical Allowance- $7,500.00)

ically added to any project for a total construction
project cost. In the proforma section of this report
the itemized costs are totaled to give an example of
a total project cost.

ITEM DESCRIPTION

Underwater LED Lights for Pools

Deck Electrical Outlets

2.1 Underwater LED Lights for Pools

The existing underwater lights for the pools could
be replaced with LED lights during a pool deck and
pool finish replacement project. LED lights would be
brighter, enhancing safety during early mornings and
evenings. LED lights would also be an energy savings
for the City. The following estimated cost is for LED
light fixtures and associated underdeck conduit.

(New Underwater LED Lights for Pools Estimated
Cost- $60,000.00)

Existing Underwater Light in Training Pool

Pool Vacuum Utilizing Extension Cord

56
43 of 326


--- page 44 ---
44 of 326

--- page 45 ---
45 of 326

--- page 46 ---
46 of 326

--- page 47 ---
47 of 326

--- page 48 ---
5. Structural Assessment

STRUCTURAL ENGINEERS

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study Al
48 of 326


--- page 49 ---
49 of 326

--- page 50 ---
PWR CIUCTION occ cc ccccccceceeccoeesececcouceeccouuseeeccouuseceecouuseeeecousececeuseeuccousseeeecoueseeescoueeeeeoeeees: 47

2. Building Information and Design Criteria .....cccscccsssresssreessresssereesresseressererserersererseressneressees 48
ee mee 812] @] ay gil g]| eA] g Rannn en on en On enon nts aoe SOU SE SORES OR ER SEER EER ACER aE an BRGH BREE DSER SER ONSEN SEN SENSE oR ERA 48

3 Tier 1, 2, ANd 3 Procedure DISCUSSION ..........ccccccccccccceeeeccccceeeeccceeceececceececcecceeeeeeecceceeeceueeeeess A9
ve De G1 49
i SRR 49
4.2. Geotechnical and Seismic Hazard Information...................0.000000cccccccceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 49

5 Existing Building Information and Site ODServations............cceceeeeeeeeseeereeseeeseeeseneeens 50
B Sucre heels area RAE ae 51
6.1) Wall Anchorage — Priority 1 ......c.ccccccccceccseeseseeeeseeseeeeeeeeeeeeseeseeeseeeseeeeseseeseseeseseeeeeseseeas 51
es GL: Beart Sa CME asi siinsinnviniviivsinnivinisvivsinnivinivivhiniv vain nhieu vaiiivininaiivinininiie 51
pote i ef p ogo 3|o  tans a anes anne anes an Ran ON San RoR ON SER RES An GEER REE AN GROAN Son ORGR ON DER ORE ES GEOR ORESES RoR OREO 51
6.4 = Reinforcing Steel = Priority 3.0... ccsccesseeseeeeseeeeeeeseeeseeeeseesseesseesseesseesseesseesseeseenensenses 51
G5) OCOSS. ES = PHOS iiriiriiinen TNT 51
Raia FELD ER DAS Fiat UA MSS NM TL Mie A ee 51
er eae attri oe sccescccr cies teseceeeureurusuraacnne fue tua crunas an han ac bac mentrasuaatraemagnacne) 51

f°) «= RGM GIUISIO NS pesiccssrresnen sini 52
Appendix A. Structural Cost Estimate Narrative and Conceptual Retrofits..............cccccseee 60
Appendix B. Building Checklists and Quick Check Calculations 2.0... ccsssesseeseenseenseensseenses 65
San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 43

50 of 326


--- page 51 ---
51 of 326

--- page 52 ---
Ha. Tier 1 Seismic Evaluation Report

STRUCTURAL ENGINEERS

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 45
52 of 326



--- page 53 ---
53 of 326

--- page 54 ---
54 of 326

--- page 55 ---
2 Building Information and Design Criteria

|RiskCategory fH
Basic Performance Objective for Existing | Collapse Prevention Structural Performance
Buildings (BPOE) at BSE-2E with Hazards Reduced
Nonstructural Performance

Square Footage (ft’) 4,800 (approximate)
|

|StoriesAboveGrade |
|StoriesBelowGrade (0

ASCE 41-17 Building Type RM1
Reinforced Masonry Bearing Walls with
Flexible Diaphragms

2.1 Building Description

Joinville Swim Center is a one-story building, creating
an “L” shape in floor plan with various jogging
corners. The roof is comprised of plywood sheathing
over 2x decking spanning between glued-laminated
beams. Masonry shear walls are used for both the
gravity and lateral system. The foundation system
consists of an 8” thick reinforced slab on grade and
shallow continuous footings under masonry walls. Soil
information is unknown.

48
55 of 326


--- page 56 ---
56 of 326

--- page 57 ---
5 Existing Building Information and Site Observations

Record Drawings Available

Joinville Swim Center - Original Drawings
April 8, 1968
August E. Waegemann Civil Engineer
37 Sheets
Joinville/Bayside Park - Phase 1 Additions
September 21, 1987
Dillingham Associates, Landscape Architect
Harry K. Lim & Associates, Architect
Leptien, Cron, Cooper Inc., Civil Engineer
22 Sheets
Joinville/Bayside Park - Phase 2 Additions
April 24, 1989
Carroll/Resources Engineering & Management, Engineering
Department of Parks & Recreation, Landscape Architecture
Civil and Landscape drawings included, Architectural, Structural, and MEP
drawings missing.

IDA performed a site visit on January 22 of 2024. The site visit was visual observation only. Record drawings
were provided.

50
57 of 326


--- page 58 ---
58 of 326

--- page 59 ---
59 of 326

--- page 60 ---
@ ss 20e1v010i Park

|
ma |
Tennlé Courts |
Bayside Womville-Park:
| }
Ya
— j \,

KehoelAve KehoeiAve KehooAve

KehoelAve

Pili 3

-]

er:

Figure 1. Proximity map of site

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 53
60 of 326


--- page 61 ---
ERODE aT ER UE

Figure 2. Site Plan

54
61 of 326


--- page 62 ---
Figure 3. Satellite View

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study

62 of 326

55


--- page 63 ---
Address: 2025 KEHOE AVE

APN 035160050
City SAN MATEO
Address 2025 KEHOE AVE

Fault Zone This parce! is NOT WITHIN an
Earthquake Fault Zone.

Liquefaction All ora portion of this parcel
Zone LIES WITHIN a Liquefaction
Zone.

Landslide This parcel is NOT WITHIN a
Zone Landslide Zone.

Zoom to eee
Figure 4. CGS Zoning Map of Seismic Hazards

56
63 of 326


--- page 64 ---
Figure 5. Typical Exposed Giulam Beams Showing Water Damage

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 57
64 of 326


--- page 65 ---
58

65 of 326


--- page 66 ---
5 b. Appendix A

STRUCTURAL ENGINEERS

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 59
66 of 326



--- page 67 ---
Structural Cost Estimate Narrative and Conceptual Retrofits

Structural Improvements Narrative

This document provides a preliminary narrative for structural improvements to the Joinville Community
Center. The intent with these descriptions is to inform a preliminary cost estimate.

Basis of these improvements is :

¢ AnASCE 41-17 Tier 1 analysis. This analysis is ongoing. The improvements are sorted into buckets based
on structural priority. The Basic Performance Objective for Existing Buildings was used as the basis for the
analysis. More information will be provided in a Tier 1 report to be issued in March 2024.

¢ Observations made in the field based on the existing condition of the structure that are outside the scope
of an ASCE 41 analysis.

Item 1 - Modify existing wall anchorage details at interior walls (Priority 1)

¢ Provide 3x8 blocking each side of existing wall at 4’ o.c. over length of wall. Extend blocking to next wood
beam. Provide strap on top of roof sheathing with nails into the new blocking. Provide framing anchors
each end of new blocking to existing wall or existing beam.

60
67 of 326


--- page 68 ---
Item 2 — Provide wall anchorage at exterior walls (Priority 1)

¢ Where beam framing is parallel to existing exterior walls (see figure below with highlighted walls), provide
new blocking and hold downs with thru bolt at 4’-0” o.c.

be fake | Pu aene
RL Te 2 Pane
ofS sae a olin

PecmEs Font dag |
Gag meee” aie

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 61
68 of 326


--- page 69 ---
Item 3 - Cut off and cap ends of all beams around the perimeter (Priority 1)

e Existing beam ends show signs of decay and rot. While not a structural concern currently, without
mitigation the rot could spread and become an issue. The ends of all exposed beams should be cut off to
remove the existing rot and then capped to prevent future water infiltration. A waterproofing consultant
should be engaged to develop these details.

cut end of beam off to
be flush with roof
extents, cap and
provide flashing to
prevent water
infiltration to end of
beam

Item 4 - New collector (Priority 2)

e Provide new 3x12 blocking below roof and new strap above roof.

Sor. SHE GRC

ie oil wae
ORT

69 of 326


--- page 70 ---
Item 5 - New shear transfer detail (Priority 2)

e Provide new ledgers and hardware at the highlighted wall shown below.

(i) ia PLAILS Eace
Qe cont.- SET ! OLR TS PLATS

In) Geet

—~ Sil AB. € Alo" ce
RECES > H+GASS

GLU-LAM SE

aL ut F
SEE DETAIL A-& sim a
fom aonNeS TION
OF ColLiU/-LAM, Te i
WALL oe @
i Hi
te sg
a Dee TH & PLANING
a |
a | Puvwkage i si a
"PLANING at =
3 € onc.
OF PANELS & |
@ it" at =
of PANEL ve | 0)
7 ay
rE het 4 |
7 ys OT
. See coms co” "0
iHDUST. APPA, hi
—t |
bY
ey ee ee hy
ai ten Ft |
\ , |
a = |
| | senedp |
San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 63

70 of 326


--- page 71 ---
Item 6 - Brace all nonstructural components in pool mechanical room (Priority 2)

¢ Pool equipment appears to be unbraced, unanchored or have inadequate anchorage. New anchorages
should be installed. Assume (4) new anchors for each ground supported unit consisting of L4x4x1/4 bolted
to existing units and post installed anchors into existing slab on grade. In addition, provide strapping of all
tanks to walls where possible. Similar bracing and anchorage into either the existing slab on grade or into a
new concrete pad is expected for any new equipment that is added or to replace existing.

Item 7 - New shear wall (Priority 3)

¢ Provide new concrete shear walls (shown in sold red below) in the locations indicated. Assume new post
installed rebar into existing thickened edge at foundation and new nailing from roof diaphragm into new 3x
sill plate on top of the new wall. Provide new collectors at dashed line below roof with new straps above
roof. Cut down top of existing cmu wall and install new transom window below collector.

|
ee c
r ;
J
ai
Mt
<bE
=

i}
aaa

64
71 of 326


--- page 72 ---
OC. Appendix B

STRUCTURAL ENGINEERS

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 65
72 of 326



--- page 73 ---
Building Checklists and Quick Check Calculations

Table 17-2. Collapse Prevention Basic Configuration Checklist

Tier 2 Commentary

Siatue Evaluation Statement Reference Reference
Low Selamicity

Building System—General

inc HAW = LOAD PATH; The structure contains a complete, wall-dafined jad peaih, 640 AZT

Inctuding eiructural alaments amd conneciions. lhat serves to transter the
inérlial fortes assaciabed with lhe mass of all elements ol She bialefirg to
the foundation.

e Nc Gu ADJACENT BUILDINGS: The clear distance babween the building being 6.4.1.2 A212
evaluated and any adjacem building is greater than 0.25% of the height of ihe
Ehorter budding in low aciemicify, 0.5% In modavaie seismicity, and 1.5% in
high seismicity.

c nc Gi u MEAFANINES: Interior: mesreanre levels ane braced independently irom the 5.4.7.4 A244
main siructure of are anchored to the seismic-force-resisting laments of ihe
maln structure.

Building System—Building Gonfiguration

ene Uo ‘(WEAK STORY: The eum of ihe shea: strengths of the eelamic-force-resieting 5.42.4 A232
sysiem in any stony in esach directs nol less than 80% of fhe sirenglh in fhe
adjacent story above,

CNC@MU SOFT STORY: The sttiness of the seiemic-torce-resisting aystem in any story ie 5.4.2.2 A223
nal less han 70% ol Bee seiamic-lorce-resisling syle silliness in an acdjacent
Sor above or less Pun BOS of thet average stismbc-loroe-resising sysien
Blilimess of foe tree stories above,

@nc Hi |= VERTAAL IRREGULARITIES: All verical elements in the seimictonce- f.42.4 Ap
resisting syetam are conbranus to tha doundation.
CNC@MPU = GEOMETRY: There are no changes in the net horizontal dimension of the 5.4.2.4 A225

Se Smiclorce esis ay shen of more than 20% ina Slory relative to adjacent
Sones aecuding oni-story penthouses and merranines

c NC GU MASS: There is mo change In effecilwe mass of more than 50° from one story to 5.4.2.5 A226
le neal Light roofs. penlhouses, arid metzanines need nat be conse red

CHR na Uo TORSION: The estimated distance behveen Pre story center of mass and the 6.42.6 APE?
Slory center of rigidity Is tess than 20% of the bullding with in either plan
dimensacnd.

Moderate Seismicity (Complete the Following Items in Addition to the Items for Low Seismicity)
Geologic Site Hazards
c@ina U LIQUEFACTION: Liquefaction-susceptible, saturated, loose granular soils that §.4.9.1 A6.1.1
could jeopardize the building's seismic performance do not exist in the
foundation soils at depths within 50 ft (15.2 m) under the building.
@nc N/A U = =6SLOPE FAILURE: The building site is located away from potential earthquake- §.4.3.1 A.6.1.2
induced slope failures or rockfalls so that it is unaffected by such failures or is
capable of accommodating any predicted movements without failure.
@nc N/AU SURFACE FAULT RUPTURE: Surface fault rupture and surface displacement at §.4.3.1 A619
the building site are not anticipated.
High Seismicity (Complete the Following Items in Addition to the Items for Moderate Seismicity)
Foundation Configuration
cae N/A UW = =OVERTURNING: The ratio of the least horizontal dimension of the seismic-force- 5.4.3.3 A.6.2.1
resisting system at the foundation level to the building height (base/height) is
greater than 0.6.5,.
c nc@im> U TIES BETWEEN FOUNDATION ELEMENTS: The foundation has ties adequate 6.4.3.4 A.6.2.2
to resist seismic forces where footings, piles, and piers are not restrained by
beams, slabs, or soils classified as Site Class A, B, or C.

Note: © = Compliant, NC = Noncompliant, N/A = Not Applicable, and U = Unknown.

66
73 of 326


--- page 74 ---
Table 17-34. Collapse Prevention Structural Checklist for Building Types RA and Fale

Shabu a

Evaluation Slalement

Low and Maderate Scismicity
Selamic-Foree-Resisting System

@xcwau

nc WAU

cwau

REDUNDANCY: The number al lines of thearvwalls in each prevcipal direction is
greater than or equal to 2.

SHEAR STRESS GHECK: The shear stress in the reinforced masonry sliear
walls, calculeled using the Quick Check procedure of Seciaan 4.4.9.9, 9 less
than 70 Ibvin® 40,48 MPa},

REINFORCING STEEL: The total verica! and honzontal reeniorcing steal ratio in
reinjoroed masoriry wails is greater Bhan 0.002 of the wall wilh the minirran of
OL.0007 In either of the bye directions: the smacing of remoning steal is less
than 48 in, (1220 mmij, and all vertical bare extend to the top of the walls,

SHA Diaphragms
CNC Uo TOPPING SLAB: Precast concaie diaphragm elaments are inerconnected by a

Connections

c@Gnwau

c ncgipu

@xc nau

cncqipu

Ne NA LL
NC NIA LU

High Seismicity (Complete the Following Neme in Addithon to the Items for Low and Moderate Seiamicity)

Salt fr
€ HE u

cxc@iiu

continuous reinforced conerete topping slab.

WALL ANCHORAGE: Exterior concrete or masonry walle that are decendant on
ihe dachragm for lateral suppor are eachored for out-ol-olane forces al each
diaphragm level with steel anchors, reinforcing dowels, of straps thet sn
developed inte ihe diaphragm. Genneclions have strength to resist the
connection force calculated in the Guick Check procedure of Secbon 4.4.3.7.

WOOD LEDGERS: The connection between the wall panels and the ciapheagm
does moi induce cross-grain bending oF lenséon in the wood ledgers.

TRANSFER TO SHEAR WALLS: Daaphragms are connected lor inanster of
Seismic forces to tha shear walls.

TOPPING SLAB TO WALLS OR FAAMES: Reinforced concrete topping slabs
That inteeconneel ihe precast concrete diaphragm elenvenia are Goweled for
tranéfer of forces inte ihe shear wall or frame elanvente.

FOUNDATION DOWELS: Wall reinforcement if doweled Into the foundabon.

GIR DER-COLUMN CONNECTION: There is a posilive connector using plales.
connection hardwars, of sirape between the girder and the column suppor.

SPENIMSS AT SHEAR WALLS: Dlaphragm openings immediately adjacent to
the: shear walls are less han 25% of the wall length.

OPENINGS AT EXTERIOR MASONRY SHEAR VWiALLS: Daphragm openings
immediately adjacent to exterior mason sheer walls ara mol greater than & ft
(2.4 mj long.

Flexible Diaphragms

C@OQNa u

c NC@i>u

c nc@>u
c NC@Au

@nc WAU

@nc WAU

@nc WAU

Connections
cnc wA@

CROSS TIES: There are continuous cross ties between diaphragm chords.

OPENINGS AT SHEAR WALLS: Diaphragm openings immediately adjacent to
the shear walls are less than 25% of the wall length.

OPENINGS AT EXTERIOR MASONRY SHEAR WALLS: Diaphragm openings
immediately adjacent to exterior masonry shear walls are not greater than
8 ft (2.4 m) long.

STRAIGHT SHEATHING: All straight-sheathed diaphragms have aspect ratios
less than 2-to-1 in the direction being considered.

SPANS: All wood diaphragms with spans greater than 24 ft (7.3 m) consist of
wood structural panels or diagonal sheathing.

DIAGONALLY SHEATHED AND UNBLOCKED DIAPHRAGMS: All diagonally
sheathed or unblocked wood structural panel diaphragms have horizontal
spans less than 40 ft (12.2 m) and aspect ratios less than or equal to 4-to-1.

OTHER DIAPHRAGMS: Diaphragms do not consist of a system other than
wood, metal deck, concrete, or horizontal bracing.

STIFFNESS OF WALL ANCHORS: Anchors of concrete or masonry walls to
wood structural elements are installed taut and are stiff enough to limit the
relative movement between the wall and the diaphragm to no greater than 1/8
in. (2 mm) before engagement of the anchors.

Tier 2
Relerence

3.5.1.1

663.121

§.4.3.1.3

mb

$7.11

aed i

bao

ba a

5.f 3d
5.741

5.6.1.3

6.6.7.3

5.6.1.2
5.6.1.3
5.6.1.3

5.6.2

5.6.2

5.6.5

8.7.1.2

Commentary
Reference

AT

AGA]

AGA!

AAI

ASA

AS12
AS.24

A523

45.3.5
A584

AAA

A416

AA
AAAL.4

AAT.

AA
A422

A423

AAPA

A.5.1.4

Note: C = Compliant, NC = Noncompliant, N/A = Not Applicable, and U = Unknown.

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study

74 of 326


--- page 75 ---
68

Date: 02/27/2024 Page:

By: ITD Job #: 23076
Project: Joinville Swim Center

Joinville Swim Center
ASCE 41-17 Tier 1

Evalute the BPOE with the BSE-2E at S-5 Structural Performance Level
(Collapse Prevention) and N-D Non structural performance Level (Hazards
Reduced)

Compliance with BSE-2E implies compliance with BSE-1E 3-C Performance
Objective (Life Safety Structural Non structural)

Seismic Parameters for Performance Objectives:
Per Seismic Design Maps and ASCE 41-17:

S,:= 1.595
5) :=0.634
Syst= 1.914

Building type RM1

P:\2023 JOBS\23076 Joinville and MLK Community Center Assessments\20-29 Engineering\21 Calculations\21.03 Tier 1 Calcs\oinville - Tier 1 calcs.mcdx

75 of 326


--- page 76 ---
2/20/24, 10:01 AM U.S. Seismic Design Maps

USGS web services were down for some period of time and as a result this tool wasn't operational, resulting in timeout error.
USGS web services are now operational so this tool should work as expected.

@ OSHPD

:

(CALIFORNIA,

Joinville
Latitude, Longitude: 37.565819, -122.293761

ee eee
Bayside/

Royal Ave Joinville Park Clipper St

Bayside Performing
Arts Center

tue
Px
Kehoe Ave vot
A =
na a
s ¢
< o
Bay Area Medi 6 8
r lum iS 9
| ay Area Mediu ¢ e
Google Map data ©2024 Google
Date 2/20/2024, 10:01:36 AM
Design Code Reference Document ASCE41-17
Custom Probability
Site Class D - Default (See Section 11.4.3)
Type Description Value
Hazard Level BSE-2N
Ss spectral response (0.2 s) 1.66
S; spectral response (1.0 s) 0.674
Sxs site-modified spectral response (0.2 s) 1.992
Sxy site-modified spectral response (1.0 s) 1.146
Fa site amplification factor (0.2 s) 1.2
Fy site amplification factor (1.0 s) 1.7
ssuh max direction uniform hazard (0.2 s) 2.264
crs coefficient of risk (0.2 s) 0.905
ssrt risk-targeted hazard (0.2 s) 2.048
ssd deterministic hazard (0.2 s) 1.66
siuh max direction uniform hazard (1.0 s) 0.934
ert coefficient of risk (1.0 s) 0.892
sirt tisk-targeted hazard (1.0 s) 0.833
sid deterministic hazard (1.0 s) 0.674
Type Description Value
Hazard Level BSE-1N
Sxs site-modified spectral response (0.2 s) 1.328
Sx site-modified spectral response (1.0 s) 0.764
https://www.seismicmaps.org 1/2

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 69
76 of 326


--- page 77 ---
77 of 326

--- page 78 ---
Date:

By:
Project:

Determine T
Coefficient to determine building period

Height in feet above the base to the roof level

Fundamental period of vibration of the building,

calculated in accordance with Section 4.5.2.4

Per 7.2.3.6, beta (damping) is the default 5%

Per 2.4.1.7.1, horizontal response spectrum

For periods between TO and long period (i.e
along the flat line), Spectral Response
Acceleration uses this eqn:

Periods shorter than TO not allowed to be
used, unless dynamic analysis

02/27/2024 Page:
ITD Job #: 23076
Joinville Swim Center

C,:= 0.020
h, = 10 ft
f:=0.75

h. \P
r=c-(] =0.112
t

B:=0.05

— 4 =
Bis (5.6—In(100-£)) “ee

S
S,:=|—25]=1.91
B,

S
Ts:=—“ = 0.56
Sxs
Ss
Ty:=0.2-—=0.11
Sxs
T,, = 8

P:\2023 JOBS\23076 Joinville and MLK Community Center Assessments\20-29 Engineering\21 Calculations\21.03 Tier 1 Calcs\oinville - Tier 1 calcs.mcdx

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study

7\
78 of 326


--- page 79 ---
Date:

By:
Project:

0.77

0.11 1.91

ResponseSpectragspon = Ts Sxs. 0.56 191
By 1 1.07

Sxr
B,

a

0 0.4+Sys
Sxs

Period := 0.11 0

0.8
0.6
0.4

0.2

0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1

Period"

72

0
T max (ResponseSpectra BSE”) | _ I? 11 1.91

2
ResponseSpectragsron

02/27/2024 Page:
ITD Job #: 23076
Joinville Swim Center

Leave off tail to 7,

|

(2)

Period”

79 of 326


--- page 80 ---
Date: 02/27/2024 Page:

By: ITD Job #: 23076
Project: Joinville Swim Center

Torsion:
Estimated distance btwn story center of mass and story center of rigidity not less than
20% of the building width in either direction

BldgWidth:=27 ft
Building with and length taken as the
BldgLength :=59.5 ft shorter dimensions of the "L" shaped bldg

AllowableDim := min (0.20+ BldgWidth ,0.20 + BldgLength) =5.4 ft

Only some masonry walls appear to extend up to roof diaphragm and
assumed to act as shear walls. Based on layout and lengths of these walls
and the irregular "L" shape of the building, the distance between center of
mass and center of rigidity is expected as greater than 20% of the building
width by inspection.

Therefore Torsion Deficiency Exists.

PAIN22 IARSI2N76 Ininvilla and MI K Cammutnitw Canter Accaccmantc\2N-29 Enoineerino\?1 Caleiilatinns\?1 12 Tier 1 Calec\ninville - Tier 1 cales medy

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study
80 of 326

73


--- page 81 ---
Date: 02/27/2024 Page:

By: ITD Job #: 23076
Project: Joinville Swim Center

Overturning: —
Minimum horizontal dimension of CMU shear walls

length:=10 ft Exact lengths of shear walls not clear, but several short
masonry shear walls appear to exist

Overturning := if fength >0.6+S,, “Compliant” , “Non Compliant”

n

Overturning = “Non Compliant”

Therefore overturning deficiency exists.

Reinforcing Steel:

- 2
VertRatio:= 22 "= 0.0016 #4 @ 16" OC vert wall bars
16 in+8 in
ar 0.31 in? "
HorizRatio :=——_———— = 0.0008 #5 @ 48" OC horiz wall bars
48 in-8 in

TotalReinfRatio := if ( VertRatio + HorizRatio > 0.002 , “Compliant” , “Non Compliant”)
TotalReinfRatio = “Compliant”
Minimum of 0.007 in either direction. Horiz ratio is 0.0008, so therefore OK.

Reinforcing steel is 48" oc for horiz bars. Requires less than 48" OC spacing.
Therefore reinforcing steel deficiency exists.

74
81 of 326


--- page 82 ---
Date: 02/27/2024 Page:

By: ITD Job #: 23076
Project: Joinville Swim Center

Shear Stress Check of Masonry Shear Walls:

Determine JV, the pseudo lateral force from Equation 4-1. V is a function of

* C,, modification factor to relate expected maximum inelastic
displacements to displacements calculated for linear elastic response;
shall be taken from table 4-7

e §, ,the response spectral acceleration at the fundamentla period of
the building in the diretion under consideration. S, shall be calculated
in accordance with Section 4.4.2.3

« W , the total dead load

From Weigh-Up:

Woof = 20 psf Wwalls *= 64 psf
2
Ayoof trib >= 4787 it Lwalls = 378 St h, =10 St
. hy, .
Woof ‘= Woof* Al nof trib = 95.74 kip W atts-tribroof a= *Wrrails *Lwalls = 120.96 kip
Floors := 1 Wi= Woop + Walls trib roof 216.7 kip
ww]
Floors
Total seismic weight of W:= >) w=216.7 kip
. Ll
structure ad
Table 4-7. Modification Factor, C
Modification Factor for RM1 Number of Stories
Building Type* 1 2 3 24
C:=1.0 Wood and cold-formed steel 1.5 1.1 1.0 1.0
TT shear wall (W1, Wa, We,
CFS1)
Moment frame (Si, $3, Ci,
PG2a)
Shear wall (S$4,55,C2,C3, 14 12 11 1.0
PCia, PC2, RM2, URMa}
Braced frame (S2)
Cold-formed steel strap-brace
wall (CFS2)
Unreinforced masonry (URM) 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0
Flexible diaphragms (S1a,
S2a, S5a, C2a, Coa, PC1,
RM1)
* Defined in Table 3-1.
DAINI2 INRQAIRANTE Ininvilla and MI kK Cammuinit Cantar Accaccmantc\I7N_9Q0 Enainaarina 71 Calriilatinne\ 91 N2 Tiar 1 Calee\Ininvilla — Tiar 1 calee mrdv
San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 75

82 of 326


--- page 83 ---
sneet
Job No. 23076

STRUCTURAL ENGINEERS By ITD

Date  2024/Feb/27

oinville Swim Center - Tier 1 Analysis

DESIGN LOADS

Roof
Decking Joists Beams Seismic
4-ply tar & Gravel Roofing 4.7 4.7 4.7 4.7
3/8" plywood 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2
2x6 T&G Planking 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0
4.25"x14.625" Glulam @ 8'-0" OC 0.0 0.0 1.9 1.9
Ceiling 0.0 3.0 3.0 3.0
Partitions 0.0 0.0 0.0 5.0
Mech/Elec/Miscellaneous 1.8 2.0 2.0 2.5
Dead Load 10 13 15 20
Live Load 20 20 20 ie)
Total Load 30 33 35 20
CMU Walls
8" CMU Wall, grouted 16" oc 64.0

Dead Load 64.0

Wall Weights and Areas.
(Excerpted from Design of Reinforced Masonry Structures, pubNshed by CMACNI

Average Weight of Completed Wall’ (psf) and Equivalent Solid Thickness (in)

Hollow Concrete Block

- - ~ ~ Equivalent Solid Thickness*
Lightweight | Mediumweight | Normalweight
Inches
402 pef 115 pef 4135 pet
Wall Thickness By) ee) ao") wary) Be} ee) 10") 12" | 6 10") 12° 6" 3" 40° 1Z
Solid grauted wall |52/)75) 93)118)58/ 78) 98 | 1244/63/84) 104/133) 5.6 T5 96 11.6
41/60) 69] 88 |47/63) 80) 94 |52 86/103) 4.5 5.8 2 8.5
37/55/61] 79 |43/58) 72) 85 |48/61) 7a |} G4] 4.1 5? 63 T5
40° o.c. )35/50) 55) 71 )41)53) G6) 7? |46/56) 72 | 36 3.8 47 5 GF
AS" o.c. 134/49) 53) 69 |40)45) 64) 75 |45/55) 7O | 63) 37 46 55 6.5
1 The above table gives the average weights of completed walls of various thickness in pounds per square foot of wall face area.
An averape amount has been added into these values to indlude the weight of bond beams and reinforcing steel. Weight of
grout 15 assumed st 140 pct
2 Equivalent solid thickness mesns the calculated thickness of the wall if there were not hollow cores, and is obtsined by
dividing the volunve of solid material in the wall by the face ares of the wall. This Equivalent Solid Thickness (EST) is for the

determination of ares for structural design only, &g. fs = PYEST tb. It is MOT to be used to obtain fire ratings. Fire rating
thickness is based either on equivalent solid thickness of ungrouted units only of solid grouted walls.

vertical
cores
grouted at

83 of 326


--- page 84 ---
Date: 02/27/2024 Page:

By: ITD Job #: 23076
Project: Joinville Swim Center

Seismic force

Psuedo seismic force per 4.4.2.1 Eq. 4-1 V:=C+S,+W=413.79 kip
factor per 4.4.2.2 k:=if(T>2.5,2,if(T<0.5,1,0.5-7+0.75))=1
Story force F,:=V=413.79 kip

Shear Stress Check:

System modification factor; shall be Table 48. Ms Factors for Shear Walls
taken from Table 4-8 Level of Performance
wel Wall Type cP? Ls? 108

Reinforced concrete, precast 4.5 3.0 15
concrete, wood, reinforced
masonry, and cold-formed
steel

Unreinforced masonry 1.75 1.25 1.0

* CP = Collapse Prevention, LS = Life Safety, |O = Immediate
Occupancy.
Determine summation of the horizontal cross-sectional area of all shear walls in the
direction of loading. Openings shall be taken into consideration where computing.
For masonry walls, the net area shall be used.

Total area of masonry shear walls A, yoi= 127 fte8 in=84.67 ft”
in north south direction

Total area of masonry shear walls A, pyi= 100 fte8 in=66.67 ft’
in east west direction

Shear stress in shear walls Vyst= Ua =7.54 psi
in north south direction Ms Avs

| 1 V f
Shear stress in shear walls Vewi=—* =9.58 psi
in east west direction 8 “wEW

ShearStressCheck := if (max (vys, Vey) > 70 psi, “Non Compliant” , “Compliant’”) = “Compliant”

Therefore, shear stress OK

P:\2023 JOBS\23076 Joinville and MLK Community Center Assessments\20-29 Engineering\21 Calculations\21.03 Tier 1 Calcs\Joinville - Tier 1 calcs.mcdx

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 7/
84 of 326


--- page 85 ---
IMAGE A:

78

IMAGE D:

85 of 326


--- page 86 ---
IMAGE E:

—

CONCRETE DECK

KEHOE AVENUE

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 79
86 of 326


--- page 87 ---
TYP. ALL
S/ CORNERS

TYPICAL ||

| ‘een |

TYR. SkYLI HT ; ue

SkvLialHT |i sheer

— $e pp Ft

re 45 " id

1 AMA NAS GLU- LAM,
| | BBAMS “COME. “ee

| INDUGTIZIAL APPBAIZ.
|

de OO gly B22" 22" | att | ere

SCALE:

80

87 of 326


--- page 88 ---
2-6"

ae! 4 © PLAMKING

Gig Sraven | PLYweee
HAL To 2 PLANKINGS
W/B4 NAILS @ Glo.

AT PEIIM. OF PANELG A atti = = =;
a4 MA age 124 AT

- A by Abo Gul
BEAMS comB'c® *
WHDUST. APPEAR. 7

a2 la 52" waeR

"

4-4"

44 64" veor POCKET FOR BEAM | NOTE! tke Té#@ ROOF

I
|
|

_ ~POSTS- (SEE See pEeT.’F’ FoR | ; ;

. CET BB PO | ae \ | | i | gehen ters papi othe

j tos } i | 5 { i + ogi |

oe E22 ghee Ee age OO d, 80 = Bo. oe ao he rs, H
! tH , n

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study
88 of 326


--- page 89 ---
56'-1/4"

NOTe +
BATH HOUSE ANP FILTEI2 WING

MUST BE POURED MONOLITHICALLY,
NO EXPANGION cR TexDLED CONST.
JOINTS ALLOWED.

?1 "3"

82
89 of 326


--- page 90 ---
! THICK Conc. Flexgm
LNB THRICUT- KEINE,
TH #4€ |G" oC. BAH
VAS BASH FAcH.

ppl nel af

CETL LILLE LRA

47 314" |

AS}

ELT

NSENUSSEN 2

BE ELEV- 01S

Ee SIGHT ScREES
SLEEVES 96! Ss

th?

—t

NY

Ala’: Bia" |

WARD POSTS
=——l
a

2012"

ais" ze" 2 vl

PLATECRM SCALES
RECESS PIT FOR
FWUGH SCALES

BACKIUA:
SUMP - See

MECH. PLAN
ee

SP. BENCH
SLEINNES iN

slab - SeeGy |
iis A

Y

a \
Ou
oy)
Hi
|
{ |
i
|
\
|
{
ray -
it —_
iv}
my)
Ley
i {
fod ae
{
i
i
i
| H
i
\
|
|
woud
=] |
@)
—t
:
3
|
i
i
i
i
|
i
i
|
a

Nore:

Fok DIMENSIONS MoT
SHOWN SEE Flo0R PLAN
suger #2

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study

90 of 326

83


--- page 91 ---
NORTH-SOUTH TOTAL LENGTH OF ASSUMED SHEAR WALL = 127FT

EAST-WEST TOTAL LENGTH OF ASSUMED SHEAR WALL = 100FT

NOTE:
BATH HOUSE ANID FILTEI2 WING:
MUST BE POURED MOMOLITH ICALLY,
HO EXPANSION ce TexDLED CONST.
JOINTS ALLOWED.

LENGTHS OF WALLS IN NORTH SOUTH AND EAST WEST DIREC"

tere"

ane’

Iu

ars

Aialx ae =

2! THICK conc.
SLA THRMeALT-
NITH #4 |G" oO

WAY

BACH FACH.

84

91 of 326


--- page 92 ---
TONS cane

Ane i4is" a's Vo

| 15'-2"

PLATFORM SCALES
RECESS PIT FOR
FWWGH SCALES

17'-2"

33

S|
Ke =aiN \ _| 1
a x ere iN \ | |
2 au an \ \ | i
Peak | |
| / NI |
A / Nia I. |
hy 7 re Ne
=a SAS &
x S a
! Nea fate]
= TTI | [=| =
| | | @ ;
EAN E> el S
amt —— — iS i , | —
Sse KRAVE ERLEEREELEEE MOREEEEERREREEERRAERERT "(a aoe |

RTA, || UARSAGE CAP | PRR!

‘ASAI AAP TAP AE PANACEA ATS AAS MAPS AE ALE AA SEIT AS ALATA CITED.

(BY
| |
_ DASYXSESSSISNISSY __BSSSSSTYSSIY \ \
= ro ene ae
/ N s
° A ° ° | Q 1

K for or
$ sais Seed ro ro
/ ; s
STYP., BENCH
|
|
|
\ {
} H
C L aera une

i SLENES IN
| ; rem see

NOTE:
SHOWN SEE FLOOR PLAN
SueeT *B

fe}
°

CITY OF SAN MATEO RECREATION DEFT.
KEHOE AVE AT ROBERTA DR. SAN MATEO, CALIF.

FOUNDATION PLAN- BATH HOUSE

CIVIL ENGINEER

SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA 94105

20 SECOND STREET SU 1-86535

OF!) SHEED

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study
92 of 326


--- page 93 ---
93 of 326

--- page 94 ---
6. Mechanical Assessment

Alter
Engineers
San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 87

94 of 326


--- page 95 ---
95 of 326

--- page 96 ---
Introduction

The existing building consists of an entry lobby
flanked by locker rooms. As you enter the lobby,
there is a reception desk, behind which is
administration space with open office space and one
small, enclosed office. There is a meeting room which
can only be entered from the pool deck.

Existing Conditions

Most of the equipment is beyond it’s useful life and all
of the equipment should be replaced.

The main office space has a newer ceiling hung gas-
fired unit heater. The gas-fired unit heater that was

replaced, was moved into the meeting room off the
pool deck.

The small, enclosed office has a wall mounted
packaged terminal heat pump (PTHP) unit mounted
low under the desk.

The locker rooms have exhaust vents through the
roof with operable windows for natural ventilation
and gas-fired unit heaters. The unit heaters in the
locker rooms have started to rust and the damper
blades are corroded.

The meeting room off the pool deck has a gas-fired
unit heater (as mentioned above). There is also a
small kitchenette with an electric range and oven as
well as a residential range hood.

Existing Equipment

Space

Office unit heater Locker room gas unit heater and natural ventilation

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 89
96 of 326


--- page 97 ---
Recommendations

All of the equipment installed is beyond it’s useful life,

except for the newly installed gas-fired unit heater.
All of the existing mechanical equipment should be
removed and replaced. The gas-fired unit heaters are
not appropriate for the spaces they serve, including
the new one.

The locker room exhaust fans are propeller fans
inline with the roof, exhausting out with a weather
cap. These could be replaced with new upblast
exhaust fans with fully insulated and weather proofed
penetrations. The exhaust fan make-up for the locker
rooms can be provided by cascading the mechanical
ventilation air required to be provided to the open
office and lobby spaces.

The open office space can be provided with a supply
fan sized to provide the code required ventilation

for the space type but will likely be increased to
provide the locker room make-up air. This would

be untempered but filtered air. If the building is
occupied in the winter, a small electric resistance
duct coil could be added to temper the mechanical
ventilation in the winter if needed. The space
conditioning for the open office space and private
office space could be split systems. Each space could
have a high wall split system with one shared outdoor
heat pump either ground mounted and caged or on
the roof.

The meeting room off the pool deck could have the
same system type as the adjacent spaces: a filtered
supply fan providing mechanical ventilation and

a split system providing space conditioning. The
ventilation can be relieved passively through a roof
vent at the existing roof location in that space.

All exterior equipment shall be provided with the
manufacturer’s corrosion resistant coating for salty
air, to be applied at the factory. The pool equipment
and chemical rooms shall be exhausted per the latest
codes and standards. All utility and equipment type
spaces shall be exhausted.

Locker room roof mounted exhaust fan

Split system outdoor unit with optional indoor units and controls

90

97 of 326


--- page 98 ---
Preliminary Equipment List

Locker rooms Each locker room: Roof mounted upblast exhaust fan, ceiling hung electric heater

Lobby/Open office In-line supply fan with 2” MERV 13 filter box, duct up through existing unit heater flue
penetration; roof mounted 2 ton heat pump with two 1 ton high wall mounted fan coils;
wall mounted thermostats

Meeting room In-line supply fan with 2" MERV 73 filter box, duct up through existing unit heater flue
penetration; new relief vent in roof for relief; roof mounted 2 ton heat pump with one 2
ton high wall mounted fan coil: wall mounted thermostat

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 91

98 of 326


--- page 99 ---
99 of 326

--- page 100 ---
/. Plumbing Assessment

Alter
Engineers
San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 93

100 of 326


--- page 101 ---
101 of 326

--- page 102 ---
Existing Conditions

Most of the plumbing piping appears to be original
copper and cast iron from 1968. Water heaters are
located within the pool equipment room. The system
is comprised of a large storage tank (365 gallon)
paired with a gas fired water heater and circulator.
The water heater was manufactured in 2004 (per the
nameplate). The existing storage tank was replaced
because it was leaking but the water heater remains
and operates well enough (based on site discussions
with the maintenance staff).

The hot water from the tank is routed to a tempering
valve to set a single Tempered temperature
distributed below slab to all showers parallel to the
cold water distribution piping. All water distribution
(cold and tempered occurs below slab only rising up
within tiled walls to serve the showers. There is no
circulator to reduce the wait time for hot water and
this seems to be the largest pain point for the users.
Copper piping in mechanical room is green in places
(due to the pool chemicals in the air) but appears

to be in good condition. No distinct history of
plumbing leaks or piping failures has been reported.
Below grade sanitary piping has no history of severe
blockages besides the occasional hair ball from Gas Fired Water Heater and Tank
the showers (based on site discussions with the
maintenance staff).

Water Closet (Floor Mount, Flushvaive)

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 95
102 of 326


--- page 103 ---
All fixtures appear to be original. Showers are
operated by a single valve for each head (no
compliant pressure balance valve).

There is a kitchenette in the building but they said
it is rarely used. A sink would likely make the space
more appealing for group events.

Recommendations

P1: Hot Watern Return line to reduce wait time
for hot water.

To solve the main pain point of wait time for

hot water, install a circ pump with a new 1/2”
copper Hot Water Return (approximately 100

ft horizontally) to reduce the wait time from
minutes to seconds. This both improves the user
experience and reduces water usage. This would
require routing across the open ceiling of the
building (below beams or through CMU walls)

or across the roof. Roof routing would require
outdoor rated jacketed insulation.

It is not likely that the existing mixing valve was
listed to the same safety standard as a modern
thermostatic mixing valve so to provide an
improved level of temperature control and scald
protection, provide new gang shower master
thermostatic mixing valve to blend the hot output
from the tank with cold water AND the new return
line to provide stable output temperature.

P2: Replace Fixtures to be improved and
compliant.

This would improve user experience (sensor flush
at urinals and water closets)

Shower valves replaced with modern compliant
pressure balance valves. (This may trigger
required modifications of floor drains)

Refer to attached floor plans for fixture counts.

P3: Remove existing gas fired water heater and
replace it with an electric heat pump

The large tank that was recently replaced

could be repurposed with multiple SANCO2 air
source heat pumps making use of all the existing
connections but using electricity instead of gas.
The feasibility of this first would require City
input on how much showering they anticipate

to determine peak usage. This estimate should
consider the installed condition when users
actually enjoy the hot shower amenities.

P4: Camera the sanitary lines

While not an immediate pain point, the existing
sanitary lines are over 50 years old and likely
include sags or cracks or root intrusion that can
be managed if it can be identified and remedied.

96

103 of 326


--- page 104 ---
Preliminary Equipment List
Water Heating

¢ (6) SANCO2 Water Heaters (This represents about

25% of the capacity of the existing gas water

heater.)

° Installed somewhere outside (luckily these
blow cold air during the summer and they are
relatively quiet at 40dB)

° WaterDrop provides pre-plumbed and wired
heat pumps on a rack for ease of installation.

¢ Central Mixing Valve and Circ Pump- Leonard
Megatron — 2” Tempered water outlet
© Pre-mounted on Galvanized Strut

¢ Expansion Tank

WaterDrop Droplets

Heat Pump Package on Rack (SANCO2 units) Central Mixing Valve and Pump Pre-Plumbed
San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 97

104 of 326


--- page 105 ---
105 of 326

--- page 106 ---
8 » Electrical Assessment

ERIJA

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 99
106 of 326


--- page 107 ---
107 of 326

--- page 108 ---
108 of 326

--- page 109 ---
109 of 326

--- page 110 ---
110 of 326

--- page 111 ---
111 of 326

--- page 112 ---
112 of 326

--- page 113 ---
113 of 326

--- page 114 ---
eo) Conceptual Design Cost Plan

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study
114 of 326


--- page 115 ---
115 of 326

--- page 116 ---
116 of 326

--- page 117 ---
117 of 326

--- page 118 ---
Conceptual Design Cost Plan

Commentary
Joinville Swim Center

Introduction
Basis of Cost
Assumptions

Exclusions

April 23, 2024

mack®

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 111
118 of 326



--- page 119 ---
119 of 326

--- page 120 ---
mack®

mack5 was requested to carry out a Conceptual Design Cost
Risk Register Plan for the proposed renovation of existing Joinville Swim
Center, located at 2111 Kehoe Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403.
The first part of the Report contains the basis of the report, the
assumptions made, description of the project scope, and
exclusions to the costs which contain items that have potential to
impact cost at some point in the future.

Project Scope

Basis of Cost

° Introduction

The Overall Summary section contains a Summary of Gross
Floor Areas, an Overall Project Summary, and Component and
Trade Cost Summaries with Graphs.

Each section contains Control Quantities, a Cost Summary and
Graph, and a Detailed Breakdown of Costs.

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 113
120 of 326


--- page 121 ---
mack®

The City of San Mateo wishes to renovate their existing Joinsville Swimming Pool Facilities. The
project consists of an assessment of the current physical conditions of the pool and existing
buildings, including structural analysis, facility assessments of the pool decks, buildings
shells/finishes, equipment & pipings, and code & accessibility requirement.

pricing documents Preliminary estimate package prepared by ELS, dated
02/29/2024
IDA Structural Engineers Memorandum, dated 2/7/2024
Mechanical/Plumbing narrative, dated 2/7/2024

Electrical narrative prepared by RIJA Consulting, dated
2/23/2024

Existing building documents

(a) Construction will start in March, 2026
(b) Aconstruction period of 5 months

(c) The general contract will be competitively bid by a minimum of
five (5) qualified contractors

(d) The general contractor will have full access to the site during
normal business hours

(e) There are no phasing requirements

(f) The contractor will be required to pay prevailing wages

(a) Cost escalation beyond a midpoint of May, 2026
(b) Loose furniture and equipment except as specifically identified

(c) Compression of schedule, premium or shift work, and restrictions
on the contractor's working hours

(d) Soft Cost such as testing and inspection fees, architectural
design and construction management fees, assessments, taxes,
finance, legal and development charges

(e) Scope change and post contract contingencies
(f) Environmental impact mitigation

(g) Temporary housing for displaced management and staff

(h) Moving and relocation cost

114
121 of 326


--- page 122 ---
122 of 326

--- page 123 ---
123 of 326

--- page 124 ---
Conceptual Design Cost Plan

Overall Summary
Joinville Swim Center

Gross Floor Areas
Overall Summary
Component Summary
Trade Summary

April 23, 2024

mack®

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 117
124 of 326



--- page 125 ---
125 of 326

--- page 126 ---
I mack

PRIORITY 1: Area % $/SF $,000
(N) Building Addition for Pool Equipment - Allowance 625SF 8% $900.00 $563
(N) Building Addition for (N) family changing room with 125SF 3% $1,500.00 $188
shower, toilet & lavatory
(E) Building Upgrades 4,360 SF 25% $404.13 $1,762
(E) Swimming Pool Remodel 17,598 SF 62% $247.02 $4,347
Site Improvement 856 SF 2% $165.89 $142

TOTAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION & SITEWORK $7,002

PRIORITY 2: $,000
Remodel & Reconfigure (E) Locker Rooms (2,220SF) $1,426
(N) All-Electric Pool Equipment & Electrical Service Upgrade - Allowance $953
San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 119

126 of 326


--- page 127 ---
127 of 326

--- page 128 ---
Figure 10: Extended roof area from 1987 Phase 2 improvements

mac®

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 121
128 of 326



--- page 129 ---
129 of 326

--- page 130 ---
mack®

Enclosed Areas

(N) Building Addition, 625SF see Overall Summary

(E) Pool Equipment Space 597
(E) 1987/89 Office/Bathouse & Activity 1,543
(E) 1968 Locker Rooms 2,220

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 123

130 of 326


--- page 131 ---
l mack®

CSI UniFormat Summary 4,360SF % $/SF $,000
SUBSTRUCTURE
Foundations 6% $25.00 $109
SHELL
Superstructure 12% $50.00 $218
Enclosure 13% $50.69 $221
Roofing 0% $0.00 $0
INTERIORS
Interior Construction 3% $11.84 $52
Stairs 0% $0.00 $0
Interior Finishes 3% $12.29 $54
SERVICES
Conveying - - -
Plumbing 4% $18.17 $79
Heating, Ventilation, & Air Conditioning 0% $0.00 $0
Fire Protection 0% $0.00 $0
Electrical 21% $86.40 $377
EQUIPMENT & FURNISHINGS
Equipment 0% $0.00 $0
Furnishings 0% $0.00 $0
Selective Building Demolition 0% $2.00 $9
|
Bonds & Insurance 3.00% 2% $7.69 $34
General Conditions 10.00% T% $26.41 $115
Contractor's Overhead & Profit 5.00% 4% $14.52 $63
Design Contingency 20.00% 15% $61.01 $266
Cost Escalation 10.41% 9% $38.11 $166
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION BUDGET 100% $404.13 $1,762

NOTE: Inclusions and Exclusions listed in the Commentary Section.

124
131 of 326


--- page 132 ---
: mack®

CS/ UniFormat Summary

Foundations

Superstructure

Enclosure

Roofing

Interior Construction

Stairs

Interior Finishes

Conveying

Plumbing

Heating, Ventilation, & Air Conditioning
Fire Protection

Electrical

Equipment

Furnishings

Bonds & Insurance

General Conditions
Contractor's Overhead & Profit
Design Contingency

Cost Escalation

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 125
132 of 326


--- page 133 ---
mack®

FOUNDATIONS

Standard Foundations
Allowance for seismic retrofit 4,360 GSF $25.00 $109,000

Subtotal For Foundations: $109,000

SUPERSTRUCTURE

Structural Framing
Allowance for seismic retrofit 4,360 GSF $50.00 $218,000

Subtotal For Superstructure: $218,000

ENCLOSURE

Wall Framing, Furring & Insulation + Exterior Finishes
Allowance for Locker Room remodel only 4,360 GSF $50.00 $218,000

Exterior Doors, Frames And Door Hardware

(N) Automatic door operators at exits from
locker rooms to pool deck 2 EA $1,500.00 $3,000

Subtotal For Enclosure: $221,000

ROOFING

No Work Anticipated In This Section

Subtotal For Roofing:

126
133 of 326


--- page 134 ---
INTERIOR CONSTRUCTION

Interior Partitions
Allowance for (N) accessible shower in mens
locker room

Toilet fittings and accessories
Minor accessibility upgrades at (E) locker
room

Miscellaneous
Rough carpentry

Cut/patch and repair areas affected by the
structural/mechanical/elecrical upgrade

STAIRS

No Work Anticipated In This Section

INTERIOR FINISHES

Wall Finishes
(N) Paint throughout
(N) Ceramic wall tiles at accessible shower in
mens locker room

Miscellaneous - Allowance

Cut/patch and repair areas affected by the
structural/mechanical/elecrical upgrade

CONVEYING

No Work Anticipated In This Section

mack®

1 LS $10,000.00 $10,000
2,220 SF $5.00 $11,100
4,360 GSF $2.00 $8,720
4,360 GSF $5.00 $21,800

Subtotal For Interior Construction: $51,620

Subtotal For Stairs; ©

4,360 GSF $5.00 $21,800
1 LS $10,000.00 $10,000
4,360 GSF $5.00 $21,800

Subtotal For Interior Finishes: $53,600

Subtotal For Conveying:

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 127

134 of 326


--- page 135 ---
mack®

PLUMBING

Fixtures & Associated piping; (N) water-efficient
plumbing fixture at remodelled locker room

New high/low drinking fountains on pool deck 2 EA $5,000.00 $10,000
New accessible shower in Men’s locker room, 1 EA $5,000.00 $5,000
Hot water return distribution 100 LF $72.00 $7,200
Equipment

Replace mechanical equipment and water

heaters;
Sanco2 heat pump 6 EA $5,500.00 $33,000
Tank, 119 gal 1 EA $12,000.00 $12,000
Circ pump & Exp tank 1 LS $2,000.00 $2,000
Mixing valve 1 LS $10,000.00 $10,000

Subtotal For Plumbing: $79,200
HEATING, VENTILATION, & AIR-CONDITIONING
No Work Anticipated In This Section See Priority 2
Subtotal For Heating, Ventilation, & Air-Conditioning: ©
FIRE PROTECTION

No Work Anticipated In This Section See Priority 2

Subtotal For Fire Protection: ©

ELECTRICAL
Service and Distribution Upgrade NIC, See Priority 2
Standby Power System:
Solaredge Backup Interface 1 EA $7,000.00 $7,000
400A standby power panel with 200AMCB
208V 1Ph 1 EA $8,700.00 $8,700
Panel 100A 208/120V 1Ph 2 EA $3,500.00 $7,000
24kW Grid-tied PV system with 38.8kW Li lon
battery system EA $114,000.00 $114,000

LS $18,000.00 $18,000
LS $25,000.00 $25,000
LS $15,000.00 $15,000

Structural steel support - allowance
AC Feeder allowance
PV conduit infrastructure allowance

a a

128
135 of 326


--- page 136 ---
ELECTRICAL

Machine and Equipment Connections

Mechanical and water hear connections:
Locker rooms - provide each locker room with
roof mounted upblast exhaus fan, ceiling hung
unit heater 2
Lobby/Open office - in-line supply fan roof
mounted 2 ton heat pump with two 1 ton high
wall mounted fan coils 1
Meeting room - in-line supply fan roof
mounted 2 ton with one 2 ton high wall

mounted fan coil 1

New ADO at exits from lockers rooms to pool

deck - ADO power connections 2

New high/low drinking fountations on pool

deck - allow 120V power connection 1
Resilency Items:

Replace existing water heater paired with

multiple air source heat pumps using

electricity Instead of gas 6
Add 1/64 HP circulating pump 1

Addition of 625 sf to house new equipment -
electrical works - lighting, power, fire alarm

Power Receptacles and Misc Power
New power receptacles throughout based on
proposed program 4,950

Lighting & Branch Wiring
New interior and exterior LED lighting through

Lighting Control and Branch Wiring
New energy compliant lighting controls

Communications, AV, PA, FA & Security
Telecom
AV Conduit rough-ins only
Paging System
Fully addressable fire alarm system
Access Control System/Intrusion Burglar
Alarm System
CCTV Surveillance Camera System

EA

EA

EA

EA

EA

EA
EA

SF

mack®

$5,250.00

$5,250.00

$5,250.00
$3,500.00

$5,000.00

$4,285.00
$1,575.00

$10.00

$10,500

$5,250

$5,250
$7,000

$5,000

$25,710
$1,575

Included In Overall Summary - (N) Bldg Addition

$49,500

See Priority 2

See Priority 2

Excluded
Excluded
Excluded
Excluded

Excluded
Excluded

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study

136 of 326

129


--- page 137 ---
ELECTRICAL

Miscellaneous Electrical Work
Permits/Fees
Selective Trade demolition - electrical
Temporary Power

Seismic Bracing/Firesealing/Grounding
allowance
Testing & commissioning/Coordination

EQUIPMENT

No Work Anticipated In This Section

FURNISHINGS

No Work Anticipated In This Section

SELECTIVE BUILDING DEMOLITION

Interior Building Demolition

Demolition due to minor accessibilty upgrades

Hazardous Materials Abatement

130

4,360

1 LS
1 LS
1 LS
1 LS
1 LS

mack®

$7,500.00
$27,225.00
$15,000.00
$10,000.00
$12,500.00

$7,500
$27,225
$15,000
$10,000
$12,500

Subtotal For Electrical: | $376,710

See Priority 2

Subtotal For Equipment: =

See Priority 2

Subtotal For Furnishings: =

SF

$2.00

$8,720

NIC, Excluded

Subtotal For Selective Building Demolition: | __ $8,720

137 of 326


--- page 138 ---
mack®

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 131
138 of 326



--- page 139 ---
(E) Swimming Pool Remodel Control mac red
Quantities

Swimming Pool Areas

Swimming Pool 3,600
Training Pool 1,825
Pool deck 12,173

Subtotal 17,598

132
139 of 326


--- page 140 ---
| mack®

CSI UniFormat Summary 17,598 SF % $/SF $,000

Site Preparation 0% $0.00 $0
Site Improvement 0% $0.00 $0
Site Mechanical Utilities 0% $0.00 $0
Site Electrical Utilities 0% $0.00 $0
Swimming Pool Budget (Excluding Pool Deck) 63% $156.72 $2,758
Bonds & Insurance 3.00% 2% $4.70 $83
General Conditions 10.00% T% $16.14 $284
Contractor's Overhead & Profit 5.00% 4% $8.88 $156
Design Contingency 20.00% 15% $37.29 $656
Cost Escalation 10.41% 9% $23.29 $410
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION BUDGET 100% $247.02 $4,347

NOTE: Inclusions and Exclusions listed in the Commentary Section.

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 133
140 of 326


--- page 141 ---
i mack®

SITE PREPARATION
Site Protective Construction
Erosion control; including storm drain inlet

protection, fiber rolls, stabilized construction
entrance/exit, and curb inlet sediment dam

(Outdoor swimming pool area only) Included Under Site Improvement
Subtotal For Site Preparation:
SITE IMPROVEMENT

Pool Deck
Concrete pool deck included in swimming pole Budget

Subtotal For Sitelmprovement: =

SITE MECHANICAL UTILITIES
Pool Water Heating
Pool Heat pump, pool heat exchanger,

valves, piping and associated connections included in swimming pole Budget

Subtotal For Site Mechanical Utilities: 4 4 8

SITE ELECTRICAL UTILITIES

Service and Distribution - Pool Included In Swimming Pool Budget
Machine and Equipment Connection Included In Swimming Pool Budget
Power Receptacles and Misc Power
Connections Included In Swimming Pool Budget
Lighting and Power Specialties Wiring Included In Swimming Pool Budget
Communications, AV, PA, FA & Security
Telecommunications system Included In Swimming Pool Budget
PA System Included In Swimming Pool Budget
CCTV Surveillance Camera System Included In Swimming Pool Budget
Area of Rescue System (AOR) Included In Swimming Pool Budget

Subtotal For Site Electrical Utilities:

134
141 of 326


--- page 142 ---
mack®

Swimming Pool Budget (provided by Aquatic
Design Group thru els)
1.0 Code Concerns

(N) Mechanical and chemical equipment to

rectify code violation 1 LS $700,000.00 $700,000

(N) Pool finishes 1 LS $375,000.00 $375,000

(N) Deck and deck drainage 1 LS $500,000.00 $500,000

(N) Depth markers/Safety signage 1 LS $6,000.00 $6,000

(N) ADA Access for pools; including ADA

compliant chair lifts and stairs with dual ADA

compliant handrail 1 LS $100,000.00 $100,000

Convert pools to skimmer pools 1 LS $400,000.00 $400,000

2.0 Maintenance & Operations

(N) Under pool piping 1 LS $350,000.00 $350,000

Eliminate surge tank 1 LS $30,000.00 $30,000

Alter depths in large pool if desired - allow 1 LS $150,000.00 $150,000

(N) Mechanical room door, frame and

hardware 1 LS $4,500.00 $4,500

(N) Mechanical/chemical building space to

accommodate additional equipment, 625SF see Overall Summary

Room finishes improvement for (E)

mechanical and chemical spaces 4 LS $75,000.00 $75,000

(N) Deck electrical outlets 1 LS $7,500.00 $7,500

(N) Underwater LED pool lights 1 LS $60,000.00 $60,000
Subtotal For Swimming Pool Budget: $2,758,000

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 135

142 of 326


--- page 143 ---
143 of 326

--- page 144 ---
Conceptual Design Cost Plan

Site Improvement
Joinville Swim Center

Site Improvement Summary
Detailed Cost Breakdown

April 23, 2024

mack®

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 137
144 of 326



--- page 145 ---
mack

CSI UniFormat Summary 856SF % $/SF $,000

Site Preparation 2% $2.90 $2
Site Improvement 61% $101.75 $87
Site Mechanical Utilities 0% $0.00 $0
Site Electrical Utilities 0% $0.00 $0
Bonds & Insurance 3.00% 2% $3.14 $3
General Conditions 10.00% 6% $10.78 $9
Contractor's Overhead & Profit 5.00% A% $5.93 $5
Design Contingency 20.00% 15% $25.00 $21
Cost Escalation 10.41% 1% $15.62 $13
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION BUDGET 100% $165.89 $142

NOTE: Inclusions and Exclusions listed in the Commentary Section.

CSI UniFormat Summary
Site Preparation
Site Improvement
Site Mechanical Utilities
Site Electrical Utilities
Bonds & Insurance
General Conditions
Contractor's Overhead & Profit

Design Contingency

138
145 of 326


--- page 146 ---
mack”

Site Area
(N) Exist Walkway 740
(N) Trash Enclosure 116
San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 139

146 of 326


--- page 147 ---
SITE PREPARATION

Site Demolition
Demo and remove (E) landscape area, for
new exit walkway

Site Protective Construction
SWPP/Erosion control; including storm drain
inlet protection, fiber rolls, stabilized
construction entrance/exit, and curb inlet

SITE IMPROVEMENT

Pedestrian Paving
(N) Exit walkway
Connect to (E) path in the park

Trash Enclosure
Relocate trash enclosure

Landscaping
Modify (E) planting area as required for new
exits and exit pathway - allowance

Fencing & Miscellaneous Accessories
(N) Exit gates with panic hardware,
double leaf 6'-O"wide

mack®

740 =SF $2.00 $1,480

1 LS $1,000.00 $1,000

Subtotal For Site Preparation: | —- $2,480

740 3 =SF $25.00 $18,500
84 =LF $100.00 $8,400
116 SF $200.00 $23,200
1 LS $5,000.00 $5,000

NIC, Excluded

4 PR $8,000.00 $32,000

Subtotal For Site Improvement: ‘$87,100

140

147 of 326


--- page 148 ---
Conceptual Design Cost Plan

Priority 2 - ADD Alternates
Joinville Swim Center

Alternates Cost Breakdown

April 23, 2024

mack®

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 141
148 of 326



--- page 149 ---
mack®

ADD:
Interior Partitions (Locker Room Remodel Only)
Non-rated partition; including metal stud
framing, insulation and gypsum board on both
sides, 0.10/SF 222 LF $432.00 $95,904
Backing and blocking, provide 16 gauge or
heavier metal blocking and backing at all wall
or ceiling mounted items including but not
limited to light fixtures, handrails, grab bars,
cabinetry, bulletin boards, equipment,
shelving, signage, etc. 2,220 SF $2.00 $4,440

Interior Doors & Door Hardware
(N) Single leaf door, 34EA/LF 7 EA $4,000.00 $28,000

Toilet fittings and accessories

Standard toilet partition, phenolic 5 EA $1,800.00 $9,000

ADA toilet partition, phenolic 2 EA $2,000.00 $4,000

Shower enclosure, phenolic 8 EA $3,000.00 $24,000

Urinal screen, phenolic 3. EA $500.00 $1,500

Toilet accessories; including toilet tissue

dispenser, napkin disposal, seat cover

dispenser, soap dispenser, waste receptacle,

grab bar, paper towel dispenser, wall mirror,

etc. 7 STALL $5,000.00 $35,000
Shelving and millwork

Janitor's mop and broom holder 1 EA $500.00 $500

Quartz solid surface vanity countertop &

backsplash 12 LF $350.00 $4,200

Custom wood reception desk with lower &

upper soiled surface countertop and low

swing doors 1 LS $10,000.00 $10,000
Chalkboards, insignia and graphics

Door signage 7 EA $200.00 $1,400

Directional/wayfinding & code signage 2,220 SF $3.00 $6,660
Miscellaneous

Rough carpentry 2,220 SF $2.00 $4,440

Cut/patch and repair areas affected by the

structural/mechanical/electrical upgrade 4,360 GSF $5.00 $21,800

142
149 of 326


--- page 150 ---
ADD:

Plumbing
Remodel and reconfigure locker rooms with
new showers; New plumbing fixtures,
including minimum 3 toilets and 3 urinals for
men, 4 toilets for women, 3 lavatories each. 4
showers each for men and women, 10 Floor
drains
Plumbing related items & Demo

HVAC System

Locker room;
Exhaust
Electric unit heater

Lobby / Office;
Supply fan
Rooftop packaged heat pump, 2 ton with two
1 ton fan coils
Refrigerant line sets

Meeting Rm.;
Supply fan with relief vent
Rooftop packaged heat pump, 2 ton with one
1 ton fan coil
Refrigerant line sets

HVAC Related items & Demo

Fire Sprinkler System
Allowance at remodeled locker room

Lighting & Branch Wiring
New interior and exterior LED lighting through

Lighting Control and Branch Wiring
New energy compliant lighting controls

Miscellaneous Equipment
Breakroom and lifeguard equipment;
including refrigerator, ice machine,
microwave, etc. (at lifeguard, activity room &

Swimsuit spinner - allowance

34

120

4,360

4,360

4,360

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study

EA
LS

EA
EA

LS
LS
LF

LS
LS
LF

LS

GSF

GSF

GSF

LS
EA

mack®

$6,500.00
$30,000.00

$5,000.00
$3,500.00

$5,000.00

$16,000.00
$48.00

$6,200.00

$14,000.00
$48.00
$15,000.00

$12.00

$25.00

$7.00

$10,000.00
$2,500.00

$221,000
$30,000

$10,000
$7,000

$5,000

$16,000
$9,600

$6,200

$14,000
$5,760
$15,000

$52,320

$109,000

$30,520

$10,000
$2,500

150 of 326


--- page 151 ---
mack®

Amenities & convenience items

Phenolic lockers & pedestal bench 4,360 GSF $15.00 $65,400

Portable Fire extinguisher - allowance 2 EA $500.00 $1,000
Moveable Furnishings

FF&E Allowance NIC, OFOI

Conference/meeting tables and chairs NIC, OFOI

Office tables and chairs NIC, OFOI

Interior Building Demolition
Interior demolition; including walls/doors and
floor/wall/ceiling finishes - remodeled area 4,360 GSF $10.00 $43,600

57.62% $521,325
Subtotal for Remodel & Reconfigure (E) Locker Rooms (2,220SF): $1,426,069

Swimming Pool Equipment - Cost premium for
All-electric equipment (ref. Piedmont Project) 4 LS $500,000.00 $500,000

Upgrade existing service from 250A to 600A
208/120V. Upgrade existing transformer pad
and main indoor switchboard, 22kAIC and

feeder breakers. Upgrade associated feeders { EA $53,500.00 $53,500
Replace equipment below:
Panel 250A 208/120V 3Ph 22kAIC for Pool 1 EA $7,500.00 $7,500
Panel 250A 208/120V 3Ph 22kAIC for HVAC 1 EA $7,500.00 $7,500
Panel 150A 208/120V 3Ph 22kAIC for hot
water systems 1 EA $5,100.00 $5,100
Panel 150A 208/120V 3Ph 22kAIC for
Provide TVSS for each panelboard 5 EA $4,100.00 $20,500
57.62% $348,205

Subtotal for (N) All-Electric Pool Equipment & Electrical Service Upgrade - Allowance: $952,505

144
151 of 326


--- page 152 ---
1 @ Appendix:
e site Visit Notes and Code Analysis

el Ss architecture+
urban design

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 145
152 of 326


--- page 153 ---
153 of 326

--- page 154 ---
154 of 326

--- page 155 ---
155 of 326

--- page 156 ---
Code Analysis

Plumbing Fixture Count per CBC 3116B

Water Area:

Lap Pool 3,630 sf

Rec Pool 1,800 sf
Total Area 5,430 sf
Total Users (@1 user/15 sf water area

Users, Male and Female: 181 each

Plumbing Fixtures Required (CBC 3116B):

Men Women
Toilets 3 4
Urinals 3
Lavatories 3 3
Showers (one per 50 pool users) 4 4
Drinking Fountains 2

Pool Deck Exiting:

CBC Table 1004.5 includes the following allowances
swimming pool occupant loads:

Skating rinks, swimming pools
Rink and pool 50 gross
Decks 15 gross
Pool and Deck Occupant Calculation:
Area Occupant
Load
Pool Water 5,430 sf 109
Pool Deck 15,156 sf 1,011
Total 18,726 1,120

Minimum 4 exits required per CBC Table 1006.3.3
A exits required if occupant load exceeds 1000.

Exit width required (using an occupant load factor of
0.2 (per CBC 1005.3.2): 224” or 18’-8”. One existing

4’ wide gate with panic hardware exits from the pool
area out towards the street. Need to review with
building official whether the path of exit travel from
the pool deck can go back through the building.

This may require a negotiation with the building
official to determine how to calculate the occupant
load and whether some areas can be designated as
“Safe Dispersal Areas” within the fence line per CBC
1028.5.

CBC Chapter 31B, Public Pools

Pool configuration, CBC 3111B- 3115B: By ADG

SII4B.3 Deck slope. The pool's deck surface shail herve a
slope of na less than I percent ('/, inch per foot) but no more
than 2 percent ("/, inch per foot) away from the poal te a deck
drainage system and shall be constructed and finished to pre-
vent standing water.

CBC 3116B Dressing, Shower and Toilet Facilities

3116B.2 Number of sanitary facilities. For the purpose of
this subsection, one pool user shall be considered for every
15 square feet (1.39 tr) of pool water surface area and/or
spray ground splash zone area,

3116B.2.1 Showers. One shower shall be provided for
every 50 pool users,

3116B.2.2 Toilets. Separate toiler facilities shall be pro-
vided for each sex. One toiler shall be provided for every
60 women or less and one toilet plus one urinal for every
73 men or less:

S116B.2.3 Lavatories. Que lavatory shall be provided for
every 50 pool users.

CBC 3116B.3 Construction

3168.3 Construction,

3116B.3.1 Floors. Floors shall have a hard, nonabsorbent
surface, such as portland cement concrete, ceramic tile or
other approved material, which extends upwards onto the
well at feast 5 inches (127 nan) with a coved base. Floors
whieh may be walked on by a wet pool! user shall be slip
resistant. Floars shall be sloped not less than '/, inch (6.4
mm) per foet to floor drains er other approved surface
water disposal areas. Carpeting and other similar artificial
floor covering shall not be permitted on shower and toilet
roam floors,

31168.3.2 Interior surfaces. The moarerials weed in the
walls, except for structural elements, shall be of a tvpe
which is not adversely affected by moisture.

SECTION 3117B
DRINKING FOUNTAINS

One guarded jet drinking fountain shall be provided for the
first 250 pool users and an additional fountain shall be pro-
vided for each additional 200 pool users or fraction thereof.
The manber of pool users shull be determined according to
Section 37168. 2.

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 149

156 of 326


--- page 157 ---
Building Code Scoping Requirements:

Current Valuation Threshold for Alterations,
Structural Repairs or Additions is $195,358.

California Existing Building Code, 2022:

CEBC 306.7:

306.7 Alterations. A facility that is altered shall comply with
the applicable provisions in Chapter 11 of the Jnternational
Building Code, ICC ALUT.1 and the provisions of Sections
306.7.1 through 306.7.16, unless technically infeasible.
Where compliance with this section is technically infeasible,
the alteration shall provide access to the maximum extent
technically feasible.

206.7.1 Alterations affecting an area containing a
primary function, Where an alteration affects the accessi-
bility to, or contains an area of primary function, the route
to the primary function area shall be accessible. The acces-
sible route to the primary function area shall include toilet
facilities and drinking fountains serving the area of
primary function.
Exceptions:

1. The costs of providing the accessible route are
not required to exceed 20 percent of the costs of
the alterations affecting the area of primary func-
tion.

2. This provision does not apply to alterations lim-
ited solely to windows, hardware, operating con-
trols, electrical outlets and signs.

3. This provision does not apply to alterations lim-
ited solely to mechanical systems, electrical sys-
tems, installation or alteration of fire protection
systems and abatement of hazardous materials.

4. This provision does not apply to alterations
undertaken for the primary purpose of increasing
the accessibility of a facility.

5. This provision does not apply to altered areas
limited to Type B dwelling and sleeping units.

150

306.7.11 Toilet rooms. Where it is technically infeasible
to alter existing toilet rooms to be accessible, one accessi-
ble single-user toilet room or one accessible family or
assisted-use toilet room constructed in accordance with
Section 1110.2.1 of the Jmfernational Building Code is
sory This toilet room shall be located on the same

rand in the same area as the existing toilet rooms. At
the inaccessible toilet rooms, directional signs indicating
the location of the nearest such toilet room shall be
provided. These directional signs shall include the Interna-
tional Symbol of Accessibility, and sign characters shall
meet the visual character requirements in accordance with
ICC Al17.1.

306.7.12 Bathing rooms. Where it is technically infeasi-
ble to alter existing bathing rooms to be accessible, one
accessible single-user bathing room or one accessible
family or assisted-use bathing room constructed in accor-
dance with Section 1110.2.1 of the /nfernational Building
Code is permitted. This accessible bathing room shall be
located on the same floor and in the same area as the exist-
ing bathing rooms. At the inaccessible bathing rooms,
directional signs indicating the location of the nearest such
bathing room shall be provided. These directional signs
Shall include the International Symbol of Accessibility,
and sign characters shall meet the visual character require-
ments in accordance with ICC A117.1.

157 of 326


--- page 158 ---
Alterations:

SECTION 503
ALTERATIONS

503.1 General. Alterations to any nage of structure shall
comply with the requirements of the California Building
Code or California Residential Code, as applicable, for new
construction. Alterations shall be such that the existing build.
ing or structure is not less compl with the provisions of
the California Building Code or California Residential Code,

as applicable, than the existing building or structure was
prior to the alteration.

1.13 Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to the
ransiroction, aferation, inovenent, cnfannenbent, peplace
men, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, fecation, miin-
fenance, removal and demolition of every building or
structure er any appurtenances connected or attached to
such buikdings ar siructeres througheut the State of Cafilor-
ia. [HCD | & 2] The provisions of this code shall apply to
repair, alteration, change of occupancy, addition to and relo-
cation of every existing Inulding or siructure er any appurte-
nanoes commected or attached in such budidings ar strictures
fhrongho the State of California.
fi34 Nenstate-reguiated buildings. structures anid
applications. Except as modified by Jocal ordinance pur-
suant te Section 11.8, the following standards in the Calf-
fornia Code of Regulations, Tithe 24, Parts 2, 2.5, 3. 4, 3,
6.9 [0and 11 shall apply to all occopancies and applica-
dons not regulated by a state agency.

San Mateo Joinville Swim Center Analysis and Feasibility Study 151
158 of 326


--- page 159 ---
i eel ae a a

SAN MATEO

CAS SFO RN

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Corutaale Center _

Existing Facilities Assessment | ee as

~“



--- page 160 ---
160 of 326

--- page 161 ---
161 of 326

--- page 162 ---
162 of 326

--- page 163 ---
163 of 326

--- page 164 ---
164 of 326

--- page 165 ---
165 of 326

--- page 166 ---
166 of 326

--- page 167 ---
General Overview, Assessment &
e Cost Summary

el Ss architecture+
urban design

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 9
167 of 326


--- page 168 ---
168 of 326

--- page 169 ---
1 Architectural Assessment

1.1 General Description

NM ARE IN

LUys
SS Kt
MARK

The Martin Luther King Jr. Community Center was
built in 1968. Designed by E.J. Miller & R.D. Steiner
Architects, the original building included a full-court
basketball gym, offices, multi-purpose meeting
rooms (including one with a stage platform), a
childcare center (now used as a teen center), a large
multipurpose room with an adjacent kitchen, and
restrooms. Two swimming pools, one lap pool and
one small training pool, are accessed from a separate
entrance with their own locker rooms and toilet
facilities.

A 1987 addition and remodel by Group 4 Architects
included a reconfigured main entry lobby and
provided accessible restrooms and two new multi-
purpose rooms with a small catering kitchen between
them. These multipurpose rooms were undergoing
improvements at the time of the design team’s site
visit in January 2024. Existing building documentation
also indicates that the building was reroofed in 2004.

1.2 Community Center and Locker Room
Building

The building is constructed of wood framed and
CMU walls with a wood-framed roof structure. In
some areas, wood beams and T&G wood decking
are exposed on the interior. While the building has
been generally well-maintained, and areas of the
1987 addition and remodel are in good condition, the
swimming pools and associated locker rooms and
toilet facilities are worn and in need of updating.

A family changing room has recently been added
that provides one accessible toilet and shower with
access to the pool deck, but otherwise, the existing
locker rooms, shower, and toilet facilities have no
accessible fixtures. In addition, partitions in the men’s
and women’s locker rooms are not full height; gaps
at the floor and ceiling result in a lack of privacy and
security. Showers are gang type with some shower
heads not in alignment with their controls. A portion
of the women’s locker room is currently used for
storage, and a portion of the men’s locker room has
been partitioned off as a gender-neutral changing
room.

Basketball Court has limited perimeter area.

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 11
169 of 326


--- page 170 ---
There is a back of house corridor that connects

the women’s locker room to the remainder of the
community center, but there is no internal public
access between the locker rooms and the rest of the
community center. There is a one-foot level change
between the remainder of the building and the locker
room area, with a ramp connecting the two. The
slope of this ramp should be verified to meet current
access requirements.

Other areas of the building appear to be in
serviceable condition. Some areas of note were as
follows:

e The large multipurpose room with raised stage
platform has a wheelchair lift to provide access to
the platform.

e The kitchen adjacent to the large multipurpose
room should be evaluated to ensure that it
meets health department requirements for a
commercial kitchen if it is to be used for meal
preparation. The gas stove includes an exhaust
hood with a fire suppression system. Costs are
included in this report to remodel this kitchen
and to upgrade it to an all-electric kitchen.

* Roof leaks are reported to be an ongoing
maintenance concern. Staining was evident on
some areas of the acoustical tile ceiling.

¢ The original 1968 building drawings show single-
glazed windows and uninsulated roofs.

° The gym area is large enough for a full basketball
court but has a narrow perimeter without room
for spectators or seating.

170 of 326


--- page 171 ---
1.3 Pools and pool deck

The pool deck is made of concrete and has
widespread cracking and unevenness, with a few
areas of ponding from recent rains. There is one exit
gate with panic hardware leading off the pool deck
area towards the street. Multiple rainwater leaders
from the building roof have outlets directly onto

the pool deck and flow across the pool deck to area
drains. Water from the roof drains should be re-
routed so it does not flow across the pool deck.

The lap pool is 75’-1” long by 35’ wide (2,628 square
feet). Depth ranges from 3’-6” to 9 feet deep. The
training pool is 16-6” by 20’-0” (330 square feet) and
has a depth of two feet. City staff have indicated
that the training pool does not meet the needs of
their current programs, and they would consider
eliminating it in favor of one larger pool, if feasible.
A concrete apron adjoins the locker room building
and creates a six-inch step-down from the building
to the pool deck. Ramps have been added to provide
access to the pool from office spaces and locker
rooms, but the remaining unprotected curb areas
present a safety hazard to pool users and staff; this
single step would not be allowed under current
codes. The concrete apron should be reconfigured
to provide good circulation for all pool users, with
railings that direct pedestrian circulation to ramped
areas.

Please see other sections of this report for additional
information regarding the condition of pools and
pool equipment. Other building systems such as
building structural systems, mechanical, electrical,
and plumbing systems are also addressed elsewhere
in this report.

Concrete apron at access to pool deck from locker rooms

Lockers in Womens Locker Room

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study

171 of 326

13


--- page 172 ---
2 Building Code Assessment

General Code Requirements: The 2022 California
Building Code (CBC) and the 2022 California Existing
Building Code (CEBC) govern alterations and
additions to existing buildings. In general, existing
buildings are not required to be brought up to
current code standards except when undergoing
major alterations (consisting of at least 50% of the
floor area), or a change of use. When alterations

are undertaken that are not considered major
alterations, the code states that “alterations shall be
such that the existing building...is no less complying
with the [building code] than the existing building...
was prior to the alteration” (CEBC 503.1). So, for the
most part, the existing building may remain as is, even
if it does not conform to current codes. An exception
to this provision is the requirement to provide
accessibility.

2.1 Accessibility

Unlike other code provisions in which existing non-
complying conditions may remain in place when

a building is altered, the code requires that when

a building is altered, the facility must comply with
requirements for accessibility to the maximum extent
feasible. If compliance is deemed

“technically infeasible” by the enforcing authority,
then the option of equivalent facilitation may be
considered.

At MLK Jr. Community Center, both men’s and
women’s locker rooms lack accessible plumbing
fixtures, and a major rework of the existing spaces
would be required to provide accessible toilets and
showers. Therefore, it is the recommendation of this
report that the locker rooms and associated office
spaces be completely remodeled and reconfigured
within the existing space. While a family changing
room with an accessible toilet and shower has
recently been added to the facility, this alone is not
sufficient for a facility of this size.

In addition, as noted elsewhere in this report, the
locker rooms are outdated: plumbing fixtures need
replacement, light fixtures need updating, and
mechanical systems need replacement. Rather
than trying to do the minimum to rework an existing
outdated facility, it will be of greater benefit and
more cost effective in the long run to upgrade the
entire area.

Pool Staff Office Area

Men’ Locker Room: Concrete masonry walls and exposed wood roof
framing

14

172 of 326


--- page 173 ---
Note: Detailed measurements to determine whether
ADA clearance requirements are met for toilet
rooms and paths of travel are beyond the scope of
this study. Depending on the extent of alterations
undertaken, there may need to be a more detailed
assessment of accessibility as a part of future work.

2.2 Recommended Code Upgrades

While the CEBC will not require significant code

upgrades to Martin Luther King Jr. Community

Center, the existing facility does not meet the

requirements of the current California Building Code

in some respects and we recommend the following

upgrades: OLE: = alle

* Upgrade Pool Deck Exiting: For new facilities, the Existing exit gate from pool deck
CBC requires exits to be provided from a pool Buy
deck based on the assumption that the pools are
fully occupied with an area allotted of 50 square
feet per occupant, and the pool deck is fully
occupied at the same time with 15 square feet per
occupant. For the MLK pool, this would result in a
total of over 600 occupants requiring a minimum
of 3 exits equipped with panic hardware providing
a total of about 10 feet of exit width. There is
currently one exit gate provided from the pool
deck with about four feet of exit width. Providing
additional exit gates around the perimeter fencing
should be a high priority improvement. (Refer to
the site visit notes included in the appendix of this
report for more detail about code requirements
and how the pool exit width is calculated).

e Revise concrete apron to eliminate single step.

¢ Accessible paths of travel should be checked to
ensure that they meet width requirements, door
swing clearances and level floor requirements,
and any deficiencies corrected.

¢ Roof drains should be rerouted so their outlets
do not flow across the pool deck.

¢ Courtyard drainage: We observed that the
courtyard has only one drain which could cause
water to back up into the building if it were
blocked, since it is surrounded by the building on
all sides. In addition, paving has settled in places
over time, and at least one roof drain drains to
the courtyard, so there is potential for water to
accumulate. It is a priority 2 recommendation to
redo the courtyard paving and drainage.

Courtyard drain

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 15
173 of 326


--- page 174 ---
3 Owner and Staff Priorities

In meetings with city Staff and operations and
maintenance personnel, we heard the following
priorities expressed for the MLK Jr. Community
Center::
e Update the pools and pool mechanical systems.
This might include modifying or eliminating the
training pool.
¢ The facility should be resilient. For this facility,
that means having the ability for city staff to
provide displaced residents with meals, sleeping
areas, and showers during local emergencies,
including the following:
© Electric water heating which will allow hot
water to be provided by back-up power
source in the event of power loss.

© Space for 30 to 40 cots in the gym for
sleeping (typical allowance is 50 square feet
per cot).

© Ability to serve meals. Meals will most likely
not be cooked on site (the City would work
with Red Cross for MRE’s).

° Portable toilets and showers would
be provided on trailers—domestic and
wastewater storage for emergencies is not
required.

e It would be desirable to have a connection from
the Community Center to the locker room area
so the showers could be used as a part of the
temporary housing for local emergencies.

e  All-electrical pool and space heating is a priority
since this is City Policy for all city-owned facilities.

e Increase hours and months of operation beyond
the current schedule (which is summer only) to a
year-round facility, and to offer more programs.
Renovated pools with updated, energy efficient
pool mechanical systems would be a big step
towards achieving this goal.

174 of 326


--- page 175 ---
4 Additional Building
Improvements

In addition to the improvements described above,
patching and repairs should be undertaken as
needed. The condition of the roof and other typical
maintenance considerations were not assessed for
this study however, since roof leaks are a known
issue, an allowance has been provided in the budget
for roof repairs.

5 Building Systems
5.1 Structure

IDA Structural Engineers has performed a Tier 1
structural analysis of the building which indicates
that the facility could suffer significant damage in

a seismic event. Recommended retrofits include
anchoring masonry walls to resist out of plane wall
forces and reinforcing the connection of walls to
the roof diaphragm at wood ledgers, as well as some
additional priority 2 upgrades. Further, a Tier 2
analysis (which is beyond the scope of this report) is
recommended.

5.2 MEP Systems Upgrades

Other sections of this report address recommended
upgrades for mechanical, electrical, plumbing, and
pool systems. Many of the system components and
related piping have been in place since the building
was originally built and are past the end of their
useful life. These should be replaced with updated,
energy efficient technology, including the following:
¢ Building HVAC equipment is beyond its useful life
and should be replaced with electric systems.
Ductwork should be evaluated and replaced as
needed.
¢ Recommended plumbing upgrades include:
Replace locker room plumbing fixtures and
shower valves and upgrade floor drains. Replace
existing gas-fired water heater with an electric
heat pump system, and replacing mixing valves.
¢ Recommended electrical upgrades include:
Replace the existing electrical service and add
a standby power system (priority 2 upgrade).
Replace lighting with new energy efficient lighting

(included in cost estimate as a Priority 2 upgrade),

new all-electric kitchen (Priority 2 upgrade).

Pool deck with areas of cracking and ponding

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 17

175 of 326


--- page 176 ---
176 of 326

--- page 177 ---
177 of 326

--- page 178 ---
178 of 326

--- page 179 ---
7 Cost estimate Summary

PRIORITY 1

|Component Estimate
Building Addition for pool equipment $473,000
Building Remodel and upgrade* $7,533,000

Pools (not including pool deck $3,484,000
Sitework (including pool deck) $149,000
$11,639,000

*Note: Building Remodel and upgrade includes about
$300,000 cost for resiliency items noted above.

PRIORITY 2

|Component —s—“‘iESC“‘CC#Stirmate |
Remodel kitchen — all electric equipment $493,000

New all-electric pool equipment and $286,625
electrical service upgrade

Replace courtyard paving and improve $263,000
drainage

TOTAL ADD $1,024,625

For more detail, please see Mack5 cost estimate
breakdown included in this report.

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study
179 of 326


--- page 180 ---
SLUR RD OTIN G SAGE PALL FIELO

i) NEW EXIT GATE AND
i) PATHWAY

SEE POOL
| ASSESSMENT

__,| EXISTING POOL
DECK TO BE
| REPLACED - SEE
POOL ASSESSMENT

™ EXISTING PLANTING
’ AREA - MODIFY AS

- J REQUIRED FOR NEW

EXITS AND EXIT

LOCKER ROOM
AREA TO BE

= PATHWAYS REMODELED
of,
ey
CONNECT TO EXISTING
v PATHWAY (3
‘ 4 LOCATIONS)

|
\

EXISTING CHAIN LINK FENCE |.
NJ AND GATES TO BE REMOVED fj |
TJ ADDITION FOR NEW POOL

EQUIPMENT - APPROX. 525 SF -
SEE POOL ASSESSMENT

EXISTING POOL EQUIPMENT
ROOM TO BE ENLARGED - SEE
POOL ASSESSMENT

22
180 of 326


--- page 181 ---
NEW COURTYARD
DRAINAGE AND
PAVING (PRIORITY 2)

Cs
enero, a cy

8.52"

SICEWALS
30
int-of

Xne. 6.21
FL,

_a4B-o"

EXISTING

+——~- octhinmanas

3 ie ghee

me je:
SITE PLAN
COST ESTIMATING SCOPE NOTES
CITY OF SAN MATEO
MARTIN LUTHER KING RECREATION CENTER

ELS ARCHITECTURE AND URBAN DESIGN
2/28/2024

°o

N

s$ T FR & BT
noe nrernnennnnentn te teense

Dera.

FLOOR PLAN

FINIGH SCHEDULES , Led

RCOR, 4 WINDEW SCHEDUL

EXTERIOR # INTERIOR OB

EATERIOR. & INTERIOR, DETS

ZLEVATION S- Section:

e2ESCTIONGE

INTERI FR ELEVATIONS

INTERIOR, BLEVATION ®

ROOF ## MESGHANCIAL Rodin

PROOF DETAILS
REFLECTIVE CEILING PLA

FIREPLACE - PROSCENIUM

FOAMING & FLOOR. ERAN
ROOF FRAMING PLAN

SECTIONS

Seeriens

SECTIONS

S Beriens

S ES TIeNS
OCETAtLS

CETAILGSG ~ SECTIONS

@ENERAL NOTES + DETAIL

GENERAL NevTES+ DOBTAILS

PLOT PLAN - LE@ENOS~ GEN. No

FlocoR. € Roof PLAN

FIXTURE SCHEDULE - DETAILS

FLOOR. PLAN- LEGENDS> GENERAL Nom

MECUANCIAL ROOF PLAN-DETAIL‘'S ~

SITE PLAN - SYMBeOlLS - ScHeE- OULES

LIGHTING FLOOR PLAN - DETAILS

MISO. SYSTEMS FLOOR PLAN! *NeoTES

CONTROL DIAGRAMS € DET ILS

—_—_—

FIXTURE SCHEDULE = DETAI Sed

Peouw PLAN

SECTIONS & CEFTAILS .
cnn nero
EQUIPMENT - STRUCTURAL DETAILS

Poot DaTAILS - AWTERNATE

Poou PIPING |
Pog MEGCRAN GIA Hw
Pocock ELECTRICAL

PCOwW SPECIFICATIONS

Peet SPECIFICATIONS

{ZPESIFICATIAONS

LANOSCAPE FLEANTING PLAN

IRRIGATIAN PLAN

a ccenararere cower net epepetsttneiegAA IO

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study

235
181 of 326


--- page 182 ---
182 of 326

--- page 183 ---
183 of 326

--- page 184 ---
184 of 326

--- page 185 ---
4 swimming Pool Assessment

DESIGN GROUP

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 27
185 of 326


--- page 186 ---
186 of 326

--- page 187 ---
Introduction

Aquatic Design Group (ADG) visited the MLK Commu-
nity Center Pools in San Mateo, California on January
22, 2024 to perform an assessment of the swimming
pools, as well as their systems and equipment. The
systems were in operation during ADG’s site visit. The
facility has the following outdoor bodies of water:

¢ A 25-yard x 5 lane swimming pool
¢ A320 square foot teaching pool

Staff representing the City of San Mateo met with
ADG during the site visit.

The following report includes a summary of the
existing conditions, code violations, deficiences and
proposed improvements for rehabilitation of the MLK
Community Center Pools and related equipment. The
scope of this report includes the swimming pools,
deck area and pool mechanical equipment. It ex-
cludes the structural integrity of the swimming pool
shells, pool appurtenances, and accessibility in the
path of travel to the swimming pool area and within
the adjacent building. Note this also excludes eval-
uation of the building, building systems and building
structural. It is possible that a facility of this age could
have underlying issues that have gone unnoticed by
staff and are not apparent to a visual inspection. This
report attempts to provide an accurate and realistic
assessment of existing conditions. Our observations
are based upon the conditions we could observe and
information provided by staff. This report should be
read in full and has been prepared exclusively for the
City of San Mateo. No liability is accepted for any use of
or reliance on the report by third parties.

This report identifies any violations of codes that were
found. Some of these violations may currently be op-
erating on a grandfathered exemption, meaning they
complied with code when they were built but code
changes since make them not compliant with current
code. We therefore recommend that these issues

be reviewed on an individual basis to determine the
disposition and possible remedies for each violation.
Some violations may be due to modifications to the
code over the years. Providing that a violation is not
deemed an immediate health or safety risk the County
Environmental Health Services Department may allow
the violation to exist as a “grandfatherable condition”.
These grandfathered conditions are normally allowed
to exist until such time as when the facility is having
work done in which the scope of the work will allow for
the violation to be remedied. If such work were going
to take place, then the County Environmental Health
Services department would demand that the viola-
tions be brought into compliance. Given the subjective
nature of the interpretation of the code, violations
that may be deemed a grandfatherable violation at

one point may not be allowed at another time or by a
different inspector.

The estimated opinions of probable cost identified in
the itemized sections of this report include materials
and labor for the repair, but do not include architec-
tural or engineering design costs or complete project
soft costs that may occur. Structural analysis of the
pool structure, pool mechanical space, or other spac-
es will require destructive testing which is not includ-
ed in the scope of this report.

MLK Swimming Pool

MLK Training Pool

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 29

187 of 326


--- page 188 ---
188 of 326

--- page 189 ---
Swimming Pools Data Cont’d
¢ Design Turnover Rate: Unknown

Mechanical and Chemical Systems: (Observed Durin
Site Visit)

¢ High-Rate Sand (H.R.S.) Filter Tank (x1)
+ Make: EPD
+ Model: 2-0014-002
+ Total Filter Surface Area: 13.5 FT?
- Filter Media Rate: 17.04 GPM / FT? at
230 GPM
* Recirculation Pump
+ Make: Paco
+ Model: Unknown Filer Tank for Poos
+ Horsepower: 10
¢ Recirculation Motor
+ Make: Baldor Reliance
+ Model: Unknown
+ Horsepower: 10
¢ Hair and Lint Strainer
+ Make: MerMade
+ Size: 4-inch
* Heating System (x4)
+ Make: Jandy
+ Model: EHE350NC
+ Total BTU Maximum Output: 1,400,000
+ Maximum Thermal Efficiency: 95%
¢ Chemical Control Monitor
+ Make: Strantrol
+ Model: System 5
* Sanitation
+ Liquid Chlorine (Sodium Hypochlorite) drums
(x4)
+ 53 gallon capacity each
+ Blue-White chemical metering pump: unknown
gallon per day feed rate capacity
¢ pH Control
* Liquid Acid (Hydrochloric Acid) drums (x2)
+ Unknown gallon capacity
+ Stenner 85M5 chemical metering pump: 85
gallons per day feed rate capacity
¢ Suction Pipe Size and Flow Velocity
- Pipe Size: 4-inch schedule 80 (swimming pool)
- Pipe Size: 3-inch schedule 80 (training pool)
+ Flow Velocity @ 230 GPM (4-inch): 6.59 Feet
Per Second (FPS)
+ Flow Velocity @ 230 GPM (3-inch): 11.47 FPS
¢ Return Pipe Size and Flow Velocity
- Pipe Size: 4-inch schedule 80 (swimming pool)
- Pipe Size: 2-inch schedule 80 (training pool)
* Flow Velocity @ 230 GPM (4-inch): 6.59 FPS
- Flow Velocity @ 230 GPM (22-inch): 25.69 FPS

Chlorine Drums for Pools

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 31
189 of 326


--- page 190 ---
Programming

The MLK Community Center Pools support the San
Mateo community through the following programs:

+ Recreational Swimming

+ Lap Swimming

+ Leisure Swimming

+ Adult, Teen and Youth Learn-To-Swim Pro
grams

+ Aquatic Fitness Classes

+ Youth Club Swim Team Practices

+ Lane Rentals

+ Party Rentals

The MLK Community Center Pools are seasonal and
operate June through August. Staff have expressed
interest in being open year-round or for a longer
season. Staff have also mentioned a desire to elimi-
nate the training pool and possibly expand the swim-
ming pool. In its current configuration the training
pool does not serve a wide variety of programs and
patrons. In a future renovation of the pools the di-
mensions and depths of the pools should be analyzed
to determine how best to support existing and future
desired programs.

Code Concerns

ADG has determined that the following eight (8) items
at the MLK Community Center Pools do not comply
with current code standards. For each item within the
report a description of the condition is given along
with a reference to the code that applies. A sugges-
tion of possible remedy and an opinion of probable
cost is given for most items. The itemized estimates
include materials and labor for the repair but not
architectural or engineering design costs / complete
project soft costs that may occur and are typically
added to any project for a total construction project
cost.

ITEM

1.1. | Comingled Pools

1.2 | Flow Velocity and Turnover Rate for Pools
1.3 | Finish for Pools

Deck for Pools

1.5 | ADA Access for Pools

DESCRIPTION

1.6 | “J” Gutter System for Pools
7

1. Safety Signage for Pools
Gauges for Circulation Pump

1.1 Comingled Pools

Both MLK Community Center pools operate on the
same recirculation system despite being separate
bodies of water. California code requires each pool
to have its own recirculation system. The comingled
pools are in violation of CBC, Chapter 31B:

5123B.1. System description. Each pool shall
be provided with a separate recirculation
system designed for the continuous
recirculation, filtration and disinfection of the
pool water. The system shall consist of pumps,
filters, chemical feeders, skimmers or perim-
eter overflow systems, valves, pipes, connec-
tions, fittings and appurtenances.

To separate the pools requires installing new piping
and corresponding mechanical / chemical equipment
to operate each individual pool. The existing filter is

in desperate need of replacement. It has a hole in the
side of it that has been patched. The patch could fail
at any moment and cause catastrophic failure to the
filter and flood the nearby pump pit. A flood would
destroy the circulation pump and other equipment in
the room. The existing mechanical room is not large
enough to accommodate additional equipment. At
minimum an additional 525 square feet of building
space is needed for new equipment. The following

52

190 of 326


--- page 191 ---
Code Concerns Cont’d

estimate is for the minimal additional building space,
excluding utility and any required site demolition
costs.

(New Mechanical / Chemical Building Estimated
Cost- $420,000.00)

If the City wishes to replace the existing filter with an
in-kind replacement an estimate is provided.

(New Filter System- $50,000.00)

The following estimated cost is for new mechanical
and chemical equipment for both bodies of water
(minus a new filter system cost which is shown above).
The estimated cost includes electric resistance heat-
ers for the pools (total of 399 kWh), but excludes solar
and other infrastructure to support electric heating.
Those costs are provided by ELS in another portion of
this report.

(New Mechanical / Chemical Equipment
Estimated Cost- $670,000.00)

The existing mechanical / chemical spaces have failing
room finishes. Failing doors and deteriorating con-
crete are present. An allowance is provided for finish
improvements.

(Existing Mechanical / Chemical Room Finish
Improvements Allowance- $75,000.00)

Un-comingling the pools would require demolition of
the deck and the pools to accommodate new pipes.
The pools would need to be refinished and the deck
replaced. The costs for piping, pool finishes and a new
deck are presented in sections 1.2, 1.3 and 1.4.

Staff have mentioned a desire to eliminate the training
pool. This concept is explored in section 2.2 of this
report.

1.2 Flow Velocity and Turnover Rate for
Pools

The flow velocity for the suction and return piping at
230 Gallons Per Minute (GPM) is 6.59 Feet Per Sec-
ond (FPS) for the swimming pool and 11.47+ FPS for
the training pool. All exceed the allowances in CBC,
Chapter 31B:

5125B.1. Line sizes. Pipes shall be sized so
flow velocity of piping systems including

all pipes and fittings other than inlet devices
or venturi throats shall not exceed 6 feet per
second in any suction or copper piping and

8 feet per second in any portion of the return
system.

Although a grandfathered code concern high flow
velocities can erode pipes and either cause leaking or
replacement ahead of typical lifecycles. Staff believe
that at least one of the pools is currently leaking. Old
standards allowed PVC pipe velocities of up to 10
feet per second. With extra diligence the system can
continue to operate at the current velocity. This code
concern, however; would be rectified if the pools
were un-comingled (section 1.1). New piping would

be installed under the pools, under the deck and in
the mechanical room. New piping would address any
return or suction line leaks. New piping would also
address any concerns about turnover rate. With a
flow of 230 GPM the pools are not achieving a 6-hour
turnover, which is in violation of CBC, Chapter 31B:

5124B. Turnover Time. The recirculation system
shall have the capacity to provide a complete
turnover of pool water in:

1. One-half hour or less for a spa pool; and

2. One-half hour or less for a sprayground; and
5. One hour or less for a wading pool; and

4. Two hours or less for a medical pool; and

5. Six hours or less for all other types of public
pools.

Based on a 230 GPM flow the pools are achieving a
combined turnover of 9.49-hours. This means that the
pools are also not achieving the 8-hour turnover they
were designed to meet. Eliminating the training pool
would lower the flow requirement to achieve a 6-hour
turnover. A new pump would need to be purchased to
achieve greater flow. The existing pump is in need of
replacement as according to staff it is 20 years old.
The following estimated cost is for new suction and
return piping for both pools. This allows for the worst
case scenario if there is a desire to keep the training
pool.

(New Piping Estimated Cost- $350,000.00)

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 33

191 of 326


--- page 192 ---
Code Concerns Cont’d

The swimming pool has ten (10) wall inlets for recir-
culation. The volume of the swimming pool is 125,000
gallons and California Code requires two (2) inlets

for the first 10,000 gallons of water and one (1) inlet
thereafter per additional 10,000 gallons of water. To
comply with code the number of floor inlets would be
14. See calculation:

+ Two (2) inlets for the first 10,000 gallons

* 125,000 gallons - 10,000 gallons = 115,000
gallons

* One (1) inlet per 10,000 gallons for remaining
115,000 gallons

115,000 gallons / 10,000 gallons = 11.5
inlets (round up to 12 inlets)

Two (2) inlets + 12 inlets = 14 inlets

CBC, Chapter 31B states:

The training pool has one (1) wall inlet for recircu-
lation. The volume of the swimming pool is 5,984
gallons and California Code requires two (2) inlets

for the first 10,000 gallons of water and one (1) inlet
thereafter per additional 10,000 gallons of water. To
comply with code the number of floor inlets would be
14. See calculation:

+ Two (2) inlets for the first 10,000 gallons

To modernize the pools floor inlets could be installed.
Floor inlets ensure chemically treated and heated
water reaches the center of the pools, as compared
to wall inlets. To install floor inlets in the pools they
would have to be drained and trenches cut in the
pool floors to install new under pool piping. Then
floor inlets would be installed and the pool floor
concrete replaced. In order to do the trenchwork the
pool plaster would have to be removed and replaced.
The pools would have to be refilled with water and
chemically balanced. The previous estimated cost
for new underpool piping includes the trenchwork,
sixteen (16) new floor inlets and related piping, and
pool floor concrete. It is not reflective of pool plaster
removal and replacement or costs associated with
draining and refilling the pools with water, which are
shown in section 1.3.

Suction and Retum Piping for Pooks

Suction and Retum Piping for Pooks

34

192 of 326


--- page 193 ---
Code Concerns Cont’d
1.3 Finish for Pools

The surfaces of both pools are showing signs of age.
The surfaces have stains and some light cracking.
According to staff at least one pool is leaking. The
tile in the pools is in decent condition but would be
replaced during a pool finish replacement project.

According to staff the plaster for the pools was re-
placed in 2016. The National Plasterers Association
states that swimming pool plaster should be expect-
ed to last between 12-15 years under normal condi-
tions. Because of the failing plaster the finish for both
pools is in violation of CBC, Chapter 31B:

3108B.2. Finish. The finished pool shell shall
be lined with a smooth waterproof interior
finish that will withstand repeated brushing,
scrubbing, and cleaning procedures. The
interior pool finish shall completely line the
pool to the tile lines, coping, or cantilevered
deck.

As plaster ages water gets closer to the underly-

ing structure of the pool shell and the result can be
oxidation and deterioration of the steel rebar which
can increase the risk of leaks and structural failure
of the pool shell. A failing pool finish may also harbor
pathogens, which could affect the health and safety
of patrons.

The plaster and tile finishes for the pools should be
replaced when cost and time permit. New finishes
for the pools will improve safety for patrons and

help protect against leaks and structural concerns.
The industry standard for pool plaster is to use a
quartz-based plaster with tile. The following estimate
includes removal of all existing previous pool finishes
to bare concrete and the installation of new plaster
and tile finishes. The new tile for the swimming pool
would include all floor and wall lane markings as well
as waterline tile. The new tile for the training pool
would include all waterline and stair tile. The estimate
is also reflective of costs associated with draining
and refilling the pools with water, as well as balancing
the chemicals. Lastly, the estimate also includes new
VGBA compliant main drain covers. Sometimes in
older pools as existing plaster is removed underlying
conditions can be worse than expected and conse-
quently increase both the scope and cost of a plaster
renovation.

(New Finishes for Pools Es-
timated Cost-
$215,000.00)

Alternative pool finishes to plaster and tile include

fiberglass, liners and Myrtha’s RenovAction system. If
the City of San Mateo is interested in cost information
for alternative finishes ADG can update this section of
the report.

Because of the code concerns in sections 1.1 and 1.2
the pool finishes would need to be replaced anyways.
The concrete below the plaster in both pools would
be sawcut to accommodate new under pool pip-

ing. The combination of new piping and new plaster
would remedy leaking and code concerns.

Stainingin Training Poo!

Plaster Surface inSwimmingPool SS

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 55

193 of 326


--- page 194 ---
Code Concerns Cont’d
1.4 Deck for Pools

The deck around the pools is showing signs of wear
and fatigue. Medium-broom finish concrete has a
typical lifespan of 20-25 years. Cracks in the con-
crete surface are visible throughout and many areas
have height differentials, particularly at area drains,
at joints (expansion and control joints) and where the
deck meets the pool coping. These failures are rough
on feet and can create slip, trip and fall hazards. The
failing deck for the pools is in violation of CBC, Chap-
ter 31B:

5114B.1. General. A minimum continuous and
unobstructed 4-foot wide slip resistant,
cleanable, nonabrasive deck area of con-
crete or like material shall be provided flush
with the top of the pool coping extending
completely around the pool,

A new deck with drainage is needed not only for
safety reasons but to address the code concerns in
sections 1.1 and 1.2. The following estimated cost is for
a new deck with drainage. The deck would include a
medium-broom finish concrete with slot drains and
slopes of no less than 1 percent and no greater than

2 percent. Required depth and safety markers, demo
of the existing deck and new deck anchors are also
included in the estimated cost.

(New Deck with Drainage Estimated Cost-
$505,000.00)

Depth markers with fractions in them are present
at the pools. The fractions are in violation of CBC,
Chapter 31B:

3110B.4.4. Size of markers. Depth markers
shall: 1. Have numerals a minimum of 4 inches
in height and of a color contrasting with the
background and be marked in units of feet
and inches. Abbreviations of FT and IN may
be used in lieu of feet and inches;

The depth markers would be replaced during a deck
replacement project. Should the City wish to replace
the depth markers outside of a deck replacement
project an allowance is provided.

(New Depth Marker Allowance- $4,000.00)
The deck distance between the two pools is cur-
rently 4-feet. By today’s code standards there should
be 6-feet between pools. Although a grandfathered
concern it is in violation of CBC, Chapter 31B:

3114B.2. Deck between pools and/or spas.

Where multiple pools and/or spas are built
adjacent to each other, the deck width
separating them shall be a minimum of
6-feet.

The health department may ask for compliance with
this standard during a deck and pool finish replace-
ment project. Eliminating the training pool would
remedy this code concern.

56

194 of 326


--- page 195 ---
Code Concerns Cont’d

Coping Not Flush With Deck

Fraction Depth Marker on Swimming Pool

1.5 ADA Access for Pools

Both of the pools do not have ADA compliant access.
Any swimming pool under 300 linear perimeter feet
needs one (1) means of ADA compliant entry. A com-
pliant sloped entry or lift qualify as a primary means
of accessible entry. A transfer wall, transfer system
or accessible stairs qualify as a secondary means of
accessible entry. Pools in excess of 300 linear pe-
rimeter feet need two (2) means of ADA compliant
entry (one [1] primary and one [1] secondary or two
[2] primary).

Based on the dimensions of the pools and the ADA
and ADAAG requirements the pools each need one (1)
accessible means of entry. Chair lifts can serve as the
primary accessible means of entry for each pool if
anchored and affixed to the deck any time the pool is
open for use. They should be installed on the deck at
each pool where the water depth is not greater than
48 inches (4’-0”) and there is sufficient deck clear-
ance (60” diameter). In addition, stairs with a dual
ADA compliant handrail can be added to the swim-
ming pool during a pool deck and pool finish replace-
ment project. Also, a dual handrail can be added to
the training pool on the existing stairs. The following
estimated cost is for two (2) lifts, one (1) set of stairs
for the swimming pool and a dual handrail on the
training pool stairs, all ADA compliant.

(ADA Access for Pools Estimated Cost-
$65,000.00)

Example of ADA Chair Lift

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 3/

195 of 326


--- page 196 ---
Code Concerns Cont’d

Example of Dual ADA Handrail and Stairs

16 “J” Gutter System for Pools

Both pools have a “J” scum gutter systems. The com-
bination is not only unusual but most pool profes-
sionals consider it a safety hazard by today’s stan-
dards. The gutter can be considered a protrusion or
projection, which is in violation of CBC, Chapter 31B:

3108B.4. Projections and recessed areas. The
pool shell shall not have projections or
recessed areas except for pool inlets and
outlets as specified in Section 3137B.

Modern gutters do not allow for feet to easily slip
into them and cause potential injury. Modern gutter
systems are also designed to accommodate not less
than 100 percent of the flow rate of the pool. The
existing gutters are not able to accomplish this and
are in violation of CBC, Chapter 31B:

3136B. Pool Skimming Systems. The pool shall
be equipped with one or more skimming
methods to provide continuous skimming of
the pool water and shall be capable of con-
tinually withdrawing not less than 100 percent
of the flow rate.

It is ADG’s recommendation to remove and replace
the gutter system for both pools. The addition of this
renovation item also makes sense given the items

in sections 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.4. Replacing the gutter
system for both pools requires draining the pools,
demolition to the decks and demoing the pool shells.
New concrete walls would have to be constructed,
and preferably a skimmer gutter system installed.

To complete this scope the pool piping, pool plaster
finishes and pool decks would have to be replaced.
Converting the pools to traditional skimmer pools
would eliminate the need for surge tanks. The existing

surge tank does not meet OSHA safety standards for
access and confined space. The following estimated
cost is for new skimmer gutter systems for both pools
and the filling in of the existing surge tank with con-
crete.

(New Skimmer Gutter Systems Estimated
Cost- $260,000.00)

“J” Gutter in Training Poo!

‘U” Gutter in Swimming Pool

58

196 of 326


--- page 197 ---
Code Concerns Cont’d
1.7 Safety Signage for Pools

The mechanical room at the MLK Community Center
houses sodium hypochlorite. The acid has its own
room. The chemicals are corrosives and health haz-
ards. There is only an NFPA safety sign on the doors
to warn of the presence of the acid. The mechanical
room door should also have NFPA safety signage to
warn about the presence of the chlorine. In addition,
there should also be NFPA safety signs on the chemi-
cal drums themselves. The lack of sufficient NFPA sig-
nage is in violation of Chapter 50 of the International
Fire Code:

5003.5 Hazard identification signs. Unless
otherwise exempted by the fire code Official,
visible hazard identification signs as speci-
fied in NFPA 704 for the specific material con-
tained shall be placed on stationary contain-
ers and above-ground tanks and at entrances
to locations where hazardous materials are
stored, dispensed, used or handled in
quantities requiring a permit and at specific
entrances and locations designated by the fire
code Official.

The required signage should be purchased and
installed. The following estimate is for sodium hypo-
chlorite and hydrochloric acid placard signage.

(NFPA Safety Signage Estimated Cost- $1,000.00)

In addition to NFPA safety signage there is also some
code-required facility safety signage missing and
therefore in violation of CBC, Chapter 31B. The re-
quired signage is listed in 3120B.1 - 11 and the required
signs applicable to these pools include:

- Pool User Capacity Sign (observed)

- No Diving Sign (not observed)

+ Artificial Respiration and Cardiopulmonary
Resuscitation Sign (observed)

+ Emergency Sign (observed)

- Keep Closed Sign (not observed)

- Diarrhea Sign (not observed)

All signs shall comply with 3120B.1:

All signs shall have clearly legible letters or
numbers not less than 4 inches high, unless
otherwise required in this section (3120B), af-
fixed to a wall, pole, gate or similar perma-
nent structure in a location visible to all pool
users.

The facility safety signage should be updated to in-
clude the missing signs. The following estimate is for

new Signage.

(New Signage Estimated Cost-
$4,000.00)

The existing chlorine drums are in need of a contain-
ment device so that if a release occurs chlorine does
not spread all over the mechanical room and harm
equipment and staff. The following estimated cost is
for a containment pallet.

(New Containment Pallet Estimated Cost-
$2,000.00)

Existing NFPA Sign on Acid Room Door

A HUr

NNEL ONLY

PS NANICAL
ROOM

Existing NFPA Sign on Mechanical Room Door

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 39

197 of 326


--- page 198 ---
Code Concerns Cont’d

Chlorine Drums In Need of Containment

a ws on FF 4
- fe | ) (
ff ; |

PERSONS HAVING CURRENTLY ACTIVE
DIARRHEA OR WHO HAVE HAD ACTIVE
DIARRHEA WITHIN THE PREVIOUS

14 DAYS SHALL NOT BE ALLOWED
TO ENTER THE POOL WATER

“Diarrhea” Sign to Purchase

“No Diving’ Sign to Purchase

40

KEEP GATE

_ CLOSED

So oe | — = om
“Keep Closed Sign” to Purchase

1.8 Gauges for Circulation Pump

The circulation pump does not have vacuum and
pressure gauges, which is in violation of CBC, Chapter
1B:

5125B.2. Gauges. A pressure and vacuum
gauge shall be provided for each pump
system.

Without pressure and vacuum gauges, the total dy-
namic head (TDH) or measure of the system’s resis-
tance to flow, cannot be calculated. Such calculations
provide a way to check pump and flow meter perfor-
mance. New pressure and vacuum gauges should be
installed to meet code and an estimate is provided.
The vacuum gauge should be installed before the

hair and lint strainer and the pressure gauge installed
after the pump.

(New Gauges Estimated Cost- $400.00)

198 of 326


--- page 199 ---
Maintenance Concerns

The following two (2) items are maintenance items

for operations at the MLK Community Center Pools.
A suggestion of possible remedy and an opinion of
probable cost is given. The itemized estimates include
materials and labor for the repair but not architectur-
al or engineering design costs / complete project soft
costs that may occur and are typically added to any
project for a total construction project cost. In the
proforma section of this report the itemized costs are
totaled to give an example of a total project cost.

ITEM DESCRIPTION

Underwater LED Lights for Pools

Eliminate Training Pool

2.1 Underwater LED Lights for Pools

The existing underwater lights for the pools could
be replaced with LED lights during a pool deck and
pool finish replacement project. LED lights would be
brighter, enhancing safety during early mornings and
evenings. LED lights would also be an energy savings
for the City. The following estimated cost is for LED
light fixtures and associated underdeck conduit.

(New Underwater LED Lights for Pools Estimated
Cost- $45,000.00)

2.2 Eliminate Training Pool

Existing Underwater Liehtin Swimming Poo!

According to staff the training pool does not serve a
wide variety of programs and patrons due to its size
and depths. Staff are interested in eliminating the
training pool. The pool could be filled in with con-
crete during a deck replacement project. The elimi-
nation of the training pool would solve the issue of
comingling and all of the triggers and costs that code
concern creates. The following estimated cost is for
elimination of the training pool.

(Eliminate Training Pool Estimated Cost-
$60,000.00)

Training Pool

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study Al

199 of 326


--- page 200 ---
200 of 326

--- page 201 ---
201 of 326

--- page 202 ---
202 of 326

--- page 203 ---
5. Structural Assessment

STRUCTURAL ENGINEERS

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 45
203 of 326


--- page 204 ---
204 of 326

--- page 205 ---
OM ) TIMER ND I cas acteag caecseecces estes ceeies ante eet s2cap czas Macca seein eal aat cece een eaten cae
2 Bullding Information and Design Criterka......cssssssseseesssssrrcersssssserssssesesesrsssscerersrssens

2.1

3 Ther 1, 2 ard 3 Procedure DiSQusSlorn ..i..ccccccccccecsscsccereevsscseeeressssssreecenstenseremsareeccrressrsenss

2 eT | Le | ee ee ee

4.1

42

3 Existing Building Information and Site Observations. seems ics
Be SCO aN AC aac sncas pars apace nn sean ag ane a ane naan saan amatiess

a1
6.2
6.3
6.4
6.5
6.6
oF
6.8
9

Building Description.

ET bg | PERS Se eg Cee RE

Geotechnical and Selsmilc Hazard Information ....cccceccccssssseersessereeersessres

Dead Airc ico = Pir cara saeco st race re cca elated scvoaeeienenedeaees rivaandaceont
Wood Ledgers — Cross-grain Bending — Priority 1 ....ccccccsesssseeneeensesens
Narrow Wood Shear Walls — Priority 2... .eseceessesecceessesssresnesneecererssssnesersnsensans
Shear Stress Check - Wood Shear Walls — Priority 2.ccccscscssesnsnsecaserc isin
Diaphragm Spans — Unblocked Wood Diaphragm — Priority 2... eee

TOrSon — Priority 3 .ecscscererssseseerresissess:
OVeEmurming — Priority 3 swe
Liquefaction - Prhority 3.....cceen

Diaphragrrs Conti nutty — Pricgrityy 3 ..cctesccecsciscesesmetessenssersssseemecserssroemmevavaensn srstraestors

6.10 Roof Chord Continuity — Priority 3 .......:ccsssseceeereee

6.11

A a ee ee ee
7 SME naa ari a a Oe eae
Appendix A. Structural Cost Estimate Narrative and Conceptual Retrogits cscs
Appendix B. Building Checklists and Quick Check Calculations ........cssssees

Cross Tes — PrIOriDy 3. eecsssceeciie

50
my
ay
. 52
52
52
. 52
53
54
5A
eee 5A
BA
5A
5A
veer 5A

« 55
~ 55
55
» 55
55
56
63
71

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study

205 of 326

47


--- page 206 ---
206 of 326

--- page 207 ---
Ha. Tier 1 Seismic Evaluation Report

STRUCTURAL ENGINEERS

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 49
207 of 326



--- page 208 ---
208 of 326

--- page 209 ---
2 Building Information and Design Criteria

|RiskCategory
Basic Performance Objective for Existing | Collapse Prevention Structural Performance
Buildings (BPOE) at BSE-2E with Hazards Reduced
Nonstructural Performance
|StoriesBelowGrade

ASCE 41-17 Building Type W1/RM1
Wood Light Frames and Reinforced Masonry
Bearing Walls with Flexible Diaphragms

2.1 Building Description

MLK Jr. Community Center is comprised of several
one-story areas, with each area having a different
roof elevation. Between each height offset, the
building is connected and there is no separation

or seismic gaps. The lowest roof level contains a
multi-purpose room, offices, and locker rooms. The
gym, auditorium, and entrance / lobby area are all
different roof elevations.

All of the roofs are comprised of plywood sheathing
spanning to 3x12 or 4x12 joists spaced 4ft on center
and supported over walls or glued-laminated beams.
Walls are either wood framed or concrete unit
masonry (CMU, and also referred to as “concrete
block” in 1968 drawings). Concrete unit masonry
shear walls and wood sheathed shear walls with
tiedowns act as the lateral system for this building.

The foundation system is a 4” slab on grade with
shallow spread footings under all CMU and wood
framed walls.

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 51
209 of 326


--- page 210 ---
210 of 326

--- page 211 ---
5 Existing Building Information and Site Observations

Record Drawings Available

Dr. MLK Community Center - Original Drawings
February 20, 1968
E. Jay Miller & R.D. Steiner Architects
J. Albert Paquette & Associates Structural Engineers

25 Sheets, not full structural set included (several
Dr. MLK Community Center - Addition, 50% submittal

June 22, 1987

Group 4/ Architecture, Research and Planning Inc.

Cecil H. Wells & Associates, Structural Engineer

16 Sheets, not construction set (50% submittal)

IDA performed a site visit on January 22 of 2024. The site visit was visual observation only. Record drawings
were provided.

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 53
211 of 326


--- page 212 ---
212 of 326

--- page 213 ---
213 of 326

--- page 214 ---
214 of 326

--- page 215 ---
Figure 1. Proximity map of site

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study

215 of 326

57


--- page 216 ---
—_ — a
a 4
; |
= | 1
= ~ =| x |
— | *
=a | | = 7 i
n é = t. ARTI al KING i,
- i
F a 4 Lie
| j
| A
= ff
1 A |
f | a if
i= - =

a
Fae

atatatetatatetets eters
7,
ae ne

ee
ee
SB errr

KEY MAP

Figure 2. Site Plan

58
216 of 326


--- page 217 ---
Figure 3. Aerial View

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study

217 of 326

59


--- page 218 ---
Address: /25 MONTE DIABLO AVE

APN
City
Address

Fault Zone

Liquefaction
Zone

Landslide
fone

Zoom to

033063060
SAN MATEO
725 MONTE DIABLO AVE

This parcel is NOT WITHIN an
Earthquake Fault Zone,

All or a portion of this parcel
LIES WITHIN a Liquefaction
Zone.

This parce! is NOT WITHIN a
Landslide Zone.

Figure 4. CGS Zoning Map of Seismic Hazards

60

218 of 326


--- page 219 ---
Figure 5. View of Building from Pools Looking Towards High Roof

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study

219 of 326

61


--- page 220 ---
Figure 6. Image of Auditorium

62

220 of 326


--- page 221 ---
5 b. Appendix A

STRUCTURAL ENGINEERS

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 63
221 of 326



--- page 222 ---
222 of 326

--- page 223 ---
223 of 326

--- page 224 ---
Item 1 - Modify existing wall anchorage at existing CMU walls (Priority 1)

Provide new plate and new bolts through existing framing at perimeter of CMU walls shown red dashed below.

“f a

ral.
bi iE bie ag =
- J
®
om *.

SITE, |
4
+

ert a

“ah
i
fF

i by

et

ee sy
ry = i aos Harada
= r rh eal eee . |
: i Pee ' + Py ig J sic
i oo i | 4 | sag eae = 1
RES IES i } eet it - i J Schatten snd
, “& Cemmertar | 0-08
Lilo n Dn Qen Oe" Se. yyy
4," Bett to rafter "yee : lodee

dd (N) 1/4” plate at 3
(E) L6x3. Undo (E) |. °
3/4” bolt, install (N)

plate and reinstall bolt.

Add (2) new 3/4" dia
thru bolts at 6" 0.c. so
that the plate has (3)
bolts total into rafter,

224 of 326


--- page 225 ---
Item 2 — Add sheathing around openings and straps at shear walls (Priority 2)

Provide new sheathing and/or nailing around existing openings unless already sheathed. Add straps above and
below openings in and adjacent to existing narrow shear walls.

i .

oP TEE ad

co) tae lewd ae rane

Tae saat
Pow Baath piel Beeps
7+ Bets eee Paka

j Hl

|
|
: }
|
il ll —_

a

J
al |

a (kt ac 1s — =- = — a a
}-0dd ze « |

Se

a =
a
A= z
=

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 67
225 of 326


--- page 226 ---
Item 3 - Re-sheath Multipurpose room roof (Priority 2)

Add new 5/8” sheathing over existing sheathing in the shaded area shown.

— i

Aa
rn
et

=i

por.

68
226 of 326


--- page 227 ---
227 of 326

--- page 228 ---
Item 5 - Provide new straps over multipurpose room roofs (Priority 2)

Install new straps across (E) 3x12 framing over multipurpose room roofs.

rs a of “ ~~ ;
b |

a es they ui
i i a
: é
t Poe

70
228 of 326


--- page 229 ---
OC. Appendix B

STRUCTURAL ENGINEERS

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 7\
229 of 326



--- page 230 ---
230 of 326

--- page 231 ---
Building Checklists and Quick Check Calculations

Date: 02/27/2024 Page:

By: ITD Job #: 23076
Project: © MLK Jr. Community Center

MLK Jr. Community Center
ASCE 41-17 Tier 1

Evalute the BPOE with the BSE-2E at S-5 Structural Performance Level
(Collapse Prevention) and N-D Non structural performance Level (Hazards
Reduced)

Compliance with BSE-2E implies compliance with BSE-1E 3-C Performance
Objective (Life Safety Structural Non structural)

Seismic Parameters for Performance Objectives:
Per Seismic Design Maps and ASCE 41-17:

= 1.706
5) :=0.686
Sygt= 2.047

Syp= 1.165

Building type W1/RM1

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study
231 of 326

73


--- page 232 ---
74

2/21/24, 4:29 PM U.S. Seismic Design Maps

USGS web services were down for some period of time and as a result this tool wasn't operational, resulting in timeout error.
USGS web services are now operational so this tool should work as expected.

OSHPD

MLK Jr. Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave, San Mateo, CA 94401, USA
Latitude, Longitude: 37.5736226, -122.3246579

Claire's Crunch cake

Martin Luther
% King Jr. P

o, Se RV
Cl °
S S
4 o®
& RC 4.
Taqueria’ Los Primos #2 % RX a My Community
oe) °
% 4 “9 Baptist Church
®5 t % e
4 % 0
C} A
“~
Google %e ee
On Map data ©2024
Date 2/21/2024, 4:29:42 PM
Design Code Reference Document ASCE41-17
Custom Probability
Site Class D - Default (See Section 11.4.3)
Type Description Value
Hazard Level BSE-2N
Ss spectral response (0.2 s) 1.842
S; spectral response (1.0 s) 0.754
Sxs site-modified spectral response (0.2 s) 2.21
Sx site-modified spectral response (1.0 s) 1.282
Fa site amplification factor (0.2 s) 1.2
Fy site amplification factor (1.0 s) 1.7
ssuh max direction uniform hazard (0.2 s) 2.461
crs coefficient of risk (0.2 s) 0.897
ssrt risk-targeted hazard (0.2 s) 2.206
ssd deterministic hazard (0.2 s) 1.842
siuh max direction uniform hazard (1.0 s) 1.029
ert coefficient of risk (1.0 s) 0.886
strt tisk-targeted hazard (1.0 s) 0.911
sid deterministic hazard (1.0 s) 0.754
Type Description Value
Hazard Level BSE-1N
Sxs site-modified spectral response (0.2 s) 1.474
Sx site-modified spectral response (1.0 s) 0.855
https://www.seismicmaps.org 1/2

232 of 326


--- page 233 ---
233 of 326

--- page 234 ---
Date: 02/27/2024 Page:

By: ITD Job #: 23076
Project: © MLK Jr. Community Center

Determine 7

Coefficient to determine building period C,:=0.020
Height in feet above the base to the roof level h,:=15 ft
B:=0.75
h. \?
Fundamental period of vibration of the building, T:= c-| “ =0.152
calculated in accordance with Section 4.5.2.4 ft
Per 7.2.3.6, beta (damping) is the default 5% B:=0.05

4

ae CeIn

Per 2.4.1.7.1, horizontal response spectrum

For periods between TO and long period (i.e

along the flat line), Spectral Response s
Acceleration uses this eqn: S,:= Fs) =2.04
1
S
Ts:=—*1 =0.57
Sxs

S
Ty:=0.2-—*=0.11
Sys

T,:=8

Periods shorter than TO not allowed to be
used, unless dynamic analysis

P:\2023 JOBS\23076 Joinville and MLK Community Center Assessments\20-29 Engineering\21 Calculations\21.03 Tier 1 Calcs\MLK - Tier 1 calcs.mcdx

234 of 326


--- page 235 ---
Date: 02/27/2024 Page:

By: ITD Job #: 23076
Project: © MLK Jr. Community Center

Sys
3 | fo 0.82
0.11 2.04
ResponseSpectra pyro = Ts Sys. =1057 7.04
By 1 1.16

S
: Leave off tail to 7;
Period:= Hf p =| 91> (0
T max (ResponseSpectragsr»y") 0.15 2.04

2.2
1.8
1.6
1.4

(2)

2
ji ResponseSpectragspoy
URRETS? (STOVE SOOT ECTS /STOENTDN COCONTEY OTTECENY [ZPSTETON\ ONTEVOOTS WOTETTET? EVENT

0.6 r y4
‘ Period”)

0.4

0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1

ResponseSpectra seen

Period”

P:\2023 JOBS\23076 Joinville and MLK Community Center Assessments\20-29 Engineering\21 Calculations\21.03 Tier 1 Calcs\MLK - Tier 1 calcs.mcdx

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study
235 of 326


--- page 236 ---
Date: 02/27/2024 Page:
By: ITD Job #: 23076
Project: © MLK Jr. Community Center

Torsion:

Estimated distance btwn story center of mass and story center of rigidity not less than
20% of the building width in either direction

Due to the irregular shape and layout of the building, the distance between

center of mass and center of rigidity is expected as greater than 20% of the
building width by inspection.
Therefore Torsion Deficiency Exists.

Overturning:

Minimum horizontal dimension of CMU shear walls

length:=17.5 ft Lots of length of masonry shear walls. Choose shorter

shear walls at gym at very tall walls

h,t=21 ft

length

Overturning := if | —=— > 0.6+S,, “Compliant” , “Non Compliant”

n
Overturning = “Non Compliant”

Therefore overturning deficiency exists.

P:\2023 JOBS\23076 Joinville and MLK Community Center Assessments\20-29 Engineering\21 Calculations\21.03 Tier 1 Calcs\MLK - Tier 1 calcs.mcdx
een errr e ener renner eee ee

236 of 326


--- page 237 ---
Date: 02/27/2024 Page:

By: ITD Job #: 23076
Project: © MLK Jr. Community Center

Reinforcing Steel:
- 2
VertRatio r= —22 " _ ~ 0.0016 #4 @ 16" OC vert wall bars
16 in+8 in
pI. 0.2in®  _ 1 ;
HorizRatio := 1 = 0.0016 #4 @ 16" OC horiz wall bars
16 in+8 in

TotalReinfRatio := if ( VertRatio + HorizRatio > 0.002 , “Compliant” , “Non Compliant”)
TotalReinfRatio = “Compliant”

Minimum of 0.0007 in either direction is met. Spacing of reinf less than 48".
Therefore, compliant

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study
237 of 326

79


--- page 238 ---
80

Date: 02/27/2024 Page:

By: ITD Job #: 23076
Project: © MLK Jr. Community Center

Narrow Wood Shear Walls
length :=6 ft taken as the shortest wood shear wall
height:=17 ft height at auditorium at narrow wood shear walls
AspectRatio := peight| 2.83
length

status := if (AspectRatio > 2.0 , “Non Compliant” , “Compliant”)

status = “Non Compliant’’

Therefore narrow wood shear wall deficiency exists.

P:\2023 JOBS\23076 Joinville and MLK Community Center Assessments\20-29 Engineering\21 Calculations\21.03 Tier 1 Calcs\MLK - Tier 1 calcs.mcdx

238 of 326


--- page 239 ---
Date: 02/27/2024 Page:

By: ITD Job #: 23076
Project: © MLK Jr. Community Center

Shear Stress Check of Shear Walls:

Determine JV, the pseudo lateral force from Equation 4-1. V is a function of
* C,, modification factor to relate expected maximum inelastic
displacements to displacements calculated for linear elastic response;
shall be taken from table 4-7

e §, ,the response spectral acceleration at the fundamentla period of
the building in the diretion under consideration. S, shall be calculated
in accordance with Section 4.4.2.3

« W , the total dead load

From Weigh-Up:
Wroof= 21 psf
Wwalls cmu = 84 psf
Walls wood *= 16 psf
1) Shear stress check of tall masonry walls at gym roof:

A oof trib = 3593 ft

Lopalts gym ?=44 fet 17.5 ft +175 ft+28.5 f+ 19 ft+22 ft+24 ft=172.5 ft

Ayalls gym =21 ft
. Mpait .
Woof a= Wroof® A oof trib = 75.45 kip Walls trib roof = =a = Wwalls_CM U* Lwaits gym 152.15 kip
Floors :=1 W?= Woot Wwatis rib roof = 221-6 kip wi=[w]
Floors
Total seismic weight of W:= 3S) w=227.6 kip
structure
San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 81

239 of 326


--- page 240 ---
Sheet
JobNo. 23076
STRUCTURAL ENGINEERS By ITD

Date  2024/Feb/27

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr Community Center - Tier 1 Analysis

DESIGN LOADS

Roof
Decking Joists Beams Seismic

Composition Roofing 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0
3/4" Plywood 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5
4x12 @ 48" OC 0.0 2.4 2.4 2.4
Beams and Columns 0.0 0.0 1.0 1.0
Acoustical Tile Ceilings 0.0 0.0 4.0 4.0
Partitions 0.0 0.0 0.0 5.0
Mech/Elec/Miscellaneous 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.5

Dead Load 9 11 16 21

Live Load 20 20 20 0

Total Load 29 31 36 21
CMU Walls
8" CMU Wall, fully grouted 84.0

Dead Load 84.0
82

240 of 326


--- page 241 ---
Date: 02/27/2024 Page:

By: ITD Job #: 23076
Project: © MLK Jr. Community Center

Table 4-7. Modification Factor, C

Modification Factor for RM1 Number of Stories
Building Type" 1 2 3 =4
C:=1.0 Wood and cold-formed steel 13° °«(121 1.0 1.0
y shear wall (W1, Wia, W2,
CFS1)
Moment frame ($1, 83, C1,
PC2a)

Shear wall (54,55,C2,C3, 14 12 1 1.0
PC1a, PC2, RM2, URMa)

Braced frame (S52)

Cold-formed steel strap-brace
wall (CFS2)

Unreinforcead masonry (URM) 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0
Flexible diaphragms (Sta,

52a, S5a, C2a, Ca, PC1,

RM1)

* Defined in Table 3-1.

Seismic force

Psuedo seismic force per 4.4.2.1 Eq. 4-1 V:=C+S,»>W=464.79 kip
factor per 4.4.2.2 k:xif (T>2.5,2,if(7<0.5,1,0.5+7+0.75))=1
Story force F,= V=464.79 kip

P:\2023 JOBS\23076 Joinville and MLK Community Center Assessments\20-29 Engineering\21 Calculations\21.03 Tier 1 Calcs\MLK - Tier 1 calcs.mcdx

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study
241 of 326

83


--- page 242 ---
Shear Stress Check:

System modification factor; shall be
taken from Table 4-8

M,:=4.5

Date: 02/27/2024 Page:
By: ITD Job #: 23076
Project: © MLK Jr. Community Center
Table 4-8, M, Factors for Shear Walls
Level of Performance
Wall Type cp? Ls@ 108
Reinforced concrete, precast 4.5 3.0 15
concrete, wood, reinforced
masonry, and cold-formed
steel
Unreinforced masonry 1.75 1.25 1.0
* CP = Collapse Prevention, LS = Life Safety, |O = Immediate
Occupancy.

Determine summation of the horizontal cross-sectional area of all shear walls in the
direction of loading. Openings shall be taken into consideration where computing.
For masonry walls, the net area shall be used.

Total area of masonry shear walls in north south direction

Ayysi=8 in+(44 f+ 28.5 ft) =48.33 f?

Total area of masonry shear walls in east west direction

Ayewi=8 in+ (17.5 ft+17.5 ft+19 ft+22 ft+24 ft) =66.67 fr

Shear stress in shear walls
in north south direction

Shear stress in shear walls
in east west direction

Vyg t= | . Vr = 14.84 psi
M, Auns
1 V :
Vewi=—? = 10.76 psi
M, wEW

ShearStress Check := if (max (wns ; Vew) >70 psi,“Non Compliant” , “Compliant”) = “Compliant”

Therefore, masonry shear stress OK at gym

P:\2023 JOBS\23076 Joinville and MLK Community Center Assessments\20-29 Engineering\21 Calculations\21.03 Tier 1 Calcs\MLK - Tier 1 calcs.mcdx

84

242 of 326


--- page 243 ---
243 of 326

--- page 244 ---
rR
; 8

=F
+

e
i

i

|

|

|

i

i

|

i

it
Zi
ary
ama ace

a

i]

oe

xX

ed
poo DATS

GYM ROOF AREA

bein

D

Ble i= oO"

TION &:Sz

Sse

s
ene pour. (Ne construction joints)

Pits ane Foot

“Nr
=
Note:
{

Zo"
en Bo
”
lo

1

L

gr

~#42812"ea, Nay

See note

D

fi

SECTION A Se

z Beyond

ao

244 of 326

86


--- page 245 ---
A:B1O

‘ i
Ry
* ¥|
¢ ‘ i ~fecced) Air
9 : °
ae a 2137
= Os xy j }
rE i 1
4S
Sa
oy

Ton tt , a) FS
Strict G8.S¢3 ele i S
Camber ig ~~  S-S10 Mh O-S18 x
f i 2
i it
f i$ _
ant li | rs
wil | | |
ry 7 ase
wat | | Sat
Hi | 3S
4 it | 24
i! ; oe
| ms)
. uw "1 & ~
Rr fe OAS ;
F 8x0 & Sd “
i ;
lI}: 1
I :
i i |
Ht : i
\ I
Bro coy l
|| aaaCiaam Ga’ } yy,
: Ra
F S é
1 Tv
5
+
‘
1 ; Y
i boy
\ 1 2 —
t at
ie yom
\
2 . Woy
3 1
n 5,
7 3 3¢x0¢'62.2¢8" j ~
|
- S—camber and raisa * .
at for aaarnage
a a ar
ah
$i
“ty
210 7 }
3 bh - =
x Sin
y Bro 5 a :
“ige S

Ehvertedt JH _
2-4

E S_t:

COMMUNITY
SAN MATEO =

PARK

E. JAY MILLER: & RODE
ARCHITECTS

AbO-3rf AVE SAN.MATEO

‘i PAQUETTE

or

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 87
245 of 326


--- page 246 ---
88

246 of 326


--- page 247 ---
San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study

247 of 326

89


--- page 248 ---
Date: 02/27/2024 Page:

By: ITD Job #: 23076
Project: © MLK Jr. Community Center

2) Shear stress check of masonry walls at main roof level:
A oof rib*= 20727 ft +3593 fr +4130 fr =28450 fr
Lats emu = 500 it

Awatis = 15 ft

. walls .
Woof *= Wroof® Ayoof trib =597.45 kip Whwalls trib roof = ° Wvyalls_ CMU° Lwwalls emu =315 kip
Floors := 1 W?= Wroop¢ + Wwatis trib roof= 912.45 kip w:=[w]
Floors
Total seismic weight of W:= >) w=912.45 kip
structure a:
Modification Factor for RM1 C:=1.0

Seismic force

Psuedo seismic force per 4.4.2.1 Eq. 4-1 V:=C-S,+W=1863.38 kip
factor per 4.4.2.2 k:=if(T>2.5,2,if(7<0.5,1,0.5+7+0.75))=1
Story force F,= V=1863.38 kip

P:\2023 JOBS\23076 Joinville and MLK Community Center Assessments\20-29 Engineering\21 Calculations\21.03 Tier 1 Calcs\MLK - Tier 1 calcs.mcdx

90
248 of 326


--- page 249 ---
Date:

By:
Project:

Shear Stress Check:

System modification factor; shall be
taken from Table 4-8

M,:=4.5

02/27/2024 Page:
ITD Job #: 23076
MLK Jr. Community Center

Determine summation of the horizontal cross-sectional area of all shear walls in the
direction of loading. Openings shall be taken into consideration where computing.

For masonry walls, the net area shall be used.

Total area of masonry shear walls in north south direction

A,ysi=8 ine (15 ft+30 ft+ 10 ft+10 f+ 11 f+ 19 ft+ 16 ft+20 ft+9 ft) =93.33 fr?

Total area of masonry shear walls in east west direction

Avew?=8 ine (15 ft 11.5 ft+7.5 ft+7.5 ft+ 14 ft+ 14.5 ft+ 13.5 ft+2+20 ft) =82.33 fr

Shear stress in shear walls Vygi= 1? = 30.81 psi
in north south direction Ms Avns

1 1 V :
Shear stress in shear walls Vewi=—* = 34,93 psi

in east west direction

ShearStress Check := if (max (wns. Vew) >70 psi,“Non Compliant” , “Compliant”) = “Compliant”

Therefore, masonry shear stress OK

P:\2023 JOBS\23076 Joinville and MLK Community Center Assessments\20-29 Engineering\21 Calculations\21.03 Tier 1 Calcs\MLK - Tier 1 calcs.mcdx

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 91

249 of 326


--- page 250 ---
ROOF AREAS FOR WOC
MASONRY SHEAR WAL

a,
| #40 12"2a Way
|

we (GR

42) Beyond _
i

SECTION A Se

tga fie em
See note on B-SZ

| — Focced A

HH oa

wees Beer Uh axve : ea s./2e¢e! 4
| “ | ~ C “SES Wire
a a THESE AREAS ARE
j enna Ee Been OVER WOOD SHEAF
SECTION £52 szaxei WALLS |
b= {'-o" i « ? ;

late: Pits and Footings to be in
ES
ene pour. (Ne construction joints)

{
1
1
r

THESE IS AREA
OVER MASONRY
SHEAR WALLS

“T

92
250 of 326


--- page 251 ---
\D SHEAR WALLS AND |
LS ey 2s?

eee oe ere
qi ;
+
CY . -Fprced Air
a v Burrage |
= 3
a aH my
a tS | | |
als
aH
"
ASF
oan %
7 Pr —
j L save sal
oh ieee ae)
Ni} i
x Shae’ aeces os. eee” cm | §
AN WE canbe “Cambar ly cai o- we ~
- ?
J i :
i} ny _
i H x :
Sa | s
i
if ASE
Sot
as
pe
uf
NI =
= Similar te = :
‘o
%
9
a
3
Pa
\ pods
Ne
wt
Pome
Ps
§,
Zéxio8'ea.et8 -
4
“Camber and raisa * *
at for diaainage
4 e-exio!
x
{ a
1 i 3
} 3
5
§

a erie a

; ig PA \ -
a ae
2-Y belts ca: /eg

£
2

bn

“ene & $8"

[lbs Be renzerovmin,

A MIILIN GS Ff

= /> 0"

NY.

«JOB No.

@107

EAS PARK
COMMUNITY CENTER

SAN MATEO + [oA b Le 4 is

E, JAY MILLER & R. D. STEINER |

T PAQUETTE

‘ & SOCIATES ;
STRUS ARCHITECES : i
se Hee ici iG ame

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 93

251 of 326


--- page 252 ---
Bt io"

z
m

LEGEND:

EGS INDICATES WOOD SHEAR
WALL IN EITHER DIRECTION

Cong, curd !
Tep/a* totc"

<k

re
Mambrane|l!l
under top
Sino

i

!

Pun, Fe. Ley, tO

- #3tab en ground

[ele 2 6. B. Cols
“See aa en|S2 5
nzerea’ an col,

Pig, #okd'o” og
pot pee

hE each Wag

|

ins)

$4

as

go

PE c-se
Say
N-—4
42

84
ie"

Ceaxeere4 iif
fiw gtin fl es ‘
Fig, fox do
Céntered e78x8
B-#E each way =
|
“

oho _ Bele
Pf
{

—_ ~> ~

i

BIN, Fu, Eeev.i to-o

Fleer over ¥slab
Joo oF Slab ~o-2B"

FOOTING ¢ FLOOR

gle of
AN dimansiens are to face or
See sections for relation o
All Studs are @nxeese unless 0
Blevation of bottom of footings /.
CB indicates concrete locks
7 indicates Tie-Cown (See decal!
Ros. indicates face of steua's

Sot indicates face ef concre7

é

94

252 of 326


--- page 253 ---
Vee 7"
.,. SUMMATION OF

THESE WALLS IN
N/W DIRECTION

SUMMATION OF
THESE WALLS IN
EM DIRECTION IS

v C "LINE 1" IN
- Nathan IN +; MATHCAD
| 40.3.>
> “or
Ul reng.

ons
iar ~9!

ing -

- Prana ting

$y 8 H
rs |. SUMMATION OF
THESE WALLS IN ?
EW DIRECTION IS ; |
"LINE 2" IN
MATHCAD

|

d
v

-T
g§
i oad
ke
| Ve
=P i f}
jem fel --4 Bp

z

ot
_ 40-10!
1472's!

a

/

LBP pm SUMMATION OF
a THESE WALLS IN
EW DIRECTION IS
"LINE 3" IN
MATHCAD

i
at fact i
Nv
wy
a «
’ a
iN)
u
$
pe \
le] tl ae Ge t
ere , *
N i
9
| 4
zy
SUMMATION OF
THESE WALLS IN
EM DIRECTION IS

— "LINE 4" IN
MATHCAD

SUMMATION OF
~ THESE WALLS IN
N/W DIRECTION

/ “TS "LINE A" IN

: : MATHCAD

Studs of concrete blocks. . : :
J hee 4o concrete Face.

ted: ;

5-3-0 from tin'sh Fleer unless noted. Fest

own tres ‘

on sht 5/3) non ; . ee

Le black EAST PARK
Si BIBERS: COMMUNITY CENTER
‘ SAN MATEO . Ca CIE

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 95
253 of 326


--- page 254 ---
Date: 02/27/2024 Page:

By: ITD Job #: 23076
Project: © MLK Jr. Community Center

3) Shear stress check of wood shear walls:
A roof rib*= 16078 ft? +4130 fr =20208 fi?
Lyatls wood = 1008 ft-+282 fr= 1290 fe

watts = 15 ft

h,,
Woof = Wroof' = A oof trib = 424.37 kip Wowalls trib roof = i us - Wyalls_wood = Lyyatts wood = 154.8 kip
Floors := 1 Wi= Wroopt Walls. rib roof= 519-17 kip w:i=[w]
Floors
Total seismic weight of W:= >) w=579.17 kip
structure a
Modification Factor for W1 C= 1.3

Seismic force

Psuedo seismic force per 4.4.2.1 Eq. 4-1 V:=C+S,»W=1537.59 kip
factor per 4.4.2.2 k:xif (T>2.5,2,if(T<0.5,1,0.5+7+0.75))=1
Story force F.:=V=1537.59 kip

P:\2023 JOBS\23076 Joinville and MLK Community Center Assessments\20-29 Engineering\21 Calculations\21.03 Tier 1 Calcs\MLK - Tier 1 calcs.mcdx

96
254 of 326


--- page 255 ---
Date:

By:
Project:

Shear Stress Check:

System modification factor; shall be
taken from Table 4-8

M,:=4.5

02/27/2024
ITD
MLK Jr. Community Center

Determine summation of the horizontal cross-sectional area of all shear walls in the
direction of loading. Openings shall be taken into consideration where computing.

For masonry walls, the net area shall be used.

Total area of wood shear walls in north south direction

Avs 4= 36.5 ft+2+9.75 ft+22 ft+22 ft=100 ft

Awns p12 ft +19 ft+12.5 ft+21 fit 17 fr=81.5 ft

Avwst=Ayns 4t+Ayng p= 181.5 ft

Total area of wood shear walls in east west direction

Avygey p= 28 fit 11 fit 15.5 fr+9.5 ft=64 ft

Aypy 2°= 20.5 ftt9.5 fit 6 ft=36 fi

Page:
Job #:

Avyew 337-25 ft+ 6.75 ft+6 ft+6 fit 13 fit21 fit 15.5 ft=75.5 ft
Awew 42227 f+ 20.5 ft + 18.75 ft+8.5 ft +8.5 ft=83.25 ft

Avew =Avyew 1+ Avew 2+ Awew 3 t+ Awew_4= 258.75 ft

Shear stress in shear walls Vygt= HY 1882.57 pif
in north south direction My Avns
1 1 V
Shear stress in shear walls Vewi=——*—— = 1320.53 pif
M, wEW

in east west direction

23076

ShearStressCheck := if (max (rns. Vew) > 1000 pif, “Non Compliant” , “Compliant”) = “Non Compliant”

Therefore, wood shear stress deficiency is present

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study

P:\2023 JOBS\23076 Joinville and MLK Community Center Assessments\20-29 Engineering\21 Calculations\21.03 Tier 1 Calcs\MLK - Tier 1 calcs.mcdx

97

255 of 326


--- page 256 ---
98

ROOF AREAS FOR WOC
MASONRY SHEAR WAL

Hb #4e12"
2a. Way

[ a-3'8
we 3

é M #4ale"ea way
it 24 eevend _
SECTION A SZ

See note on B-SZ@

—
as.

Srebleg.cits' 4
Brule 2 ta
‘at

Sums
(ey 1%

x 3"deep

loor
fe
bw]

aE |

iH

_——— * i ss

oe . SECTION ©:-S2 °
“Ble t= oF L,
Nete: Pits and Footings to be in
ene pour. (Ne construction joints)

THESE IS AREA
OVER MASONRY
SHEAR WALLS

/
oe

Aare
_

256 of 326


--- page 257 ---
\D SHEAR WALLS AND
LS a = oF

AsSiO
‘ | eSlo
_ ris a
gy
+
3}
oslo 4 ~ferced Air |.
= : ‘Acreage
i}
ss ~ 2757
to
‘Yop oF PR
we ected JH ~
Aa '
IS 9, ASF
Nat . "
io 8 ASO . c
ed | gh
e
b—
. SH if -
4 T, 1 \ /
8 S+/2248 | \ _
x , 2 < qo Bhacicscea’ | Hi g
be Ket OB CFB | -
x | owen 3 Al —_ ' All WE canbe YF B-S/o wh O-S10 x
S i a + — = L ! ay
™ | 4 J yy 2
“sa A= 16,078.32 sf x
Tee Z
I cena 2 j 3. ! 4) ase
vo |v _4 y
Loy Ss ) ~ } ;
{8 —_ -— “ Ed ra
; ~T of He
* = ta
aes)
SAY a
: A] j
y
% 2 ae :
ved a 2 eeeey
I als mo Ar
Pi
\ pre ik)
\ &fjre
sa ih
,
eae
vy uy
” s
S¢xio'ea.e¢8 i -
tf
% ‘

~ camber and raiss
a7 @ for damainage

se 7 a
SIAM GH.
¥ a

cae

2-Z2r/OxZe

j i
ORO >

Ij j

: hep: :
2 x rm Jict |
“Exlowice” 5

“eno $8"

FSU c-sil as7

~~ SOB No.

| @107
| ajseies

EAST PARK
COMMUNITY CENTER
SAN MATEO! . te ee
E, JAY MILLER: @ Ro DOSTEINER

ARCHITECTS

AbO-3ts AVE. SAN.MATLO
or cero 17) sens

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 99
257 of 326


--- page 258 ---
7

30

F
Ht

137°
ae
»

s

d

m

LEGEND:

HE INDICATES MASONRY SHEAR
WALL IN EITHER DIRECTION

ASI:
, i 2er2by%e Tube —

j See Arcdti.0

Be? 2. tee" 1 ae

Cone, cure
Tep/at tote"

a
= eo = a SENSES | Se
HH i
a
tot if
it
Ie Wee" ;
i ! yr i
| FIN, Fe.29-9° III i
e-sio | ti \
“T a i z
sh i
ay | Mi .
je | H (Oe 2H C.B. Ew
$3 T a | PELE Dgriered on «
nee Str J “rtpere 2 ren
a aS nein
J Ptg, f-0'% $0" . \
Céntered oA BxB
3-5 cach way
|
bercn rele" a _ wot” | eee ca!
1 7
A
ny
or BIN, Fu. vey. too”
9 8 Weed floor over Slab
ose | DG rags Tao oF Slab -ot 2s
IS 6
LIN 5 -
ay \
rs |
i | '
- H - ‘ | -

|
t | Ben. eL.erdstrd)

Mgmbrage if
P| fp
gcse

lye

lr Ae Sn
==

!

Breit” 91

2 IK

LEnt

} an
Fg. 2-047'0"
Curk at tic! _

777

~ 10" Cane, Cole
25. Boe

a peas Te te? H e aaa
: eS ' ho.5+ €5
am

FOOTING #4 FLOOR
Gl- |) - of
AN dimansiens are to face or é oi
See seetions fer relation of s
All Studs are Breese unless o
Blevation ef botton of Foedings
CB indizates concrete blocks
Te indicates Te-Down (See deta
’ Fos. indicates face of stua's
Sotindicates face ef conc:

L

100

258 of 326


--- page 259 ---
a o> E
! So
a a = sree clei al S u
. el =
al & pe al iF! oe 27597 e 7 wl
a vide 4 4] i ee ee r
2 AEE 8! i. , ee yb
Sees ct 4 “
, 9 a — ! & ‘dha
¥, a 2~T pe ! i
y fote xt | ; au
Polya : i i _ :
ist i ! i a <
oN = q | | a °
BUTE Ueld : Tat te ri r - i at et
—T — op A SAE 121 . lel 12t i ee
z\%
| ; Dx
| z
BS 2 r
i °
i v
\
“i
S
§
es
“
Q
x
(
!
rr
q ¢
q
s}
t
a
¢
K oo
, 1; & \
t < ft
y a A
J “8 io
“ ~ a
® QO
sy
St 56,
| , ¥
| Tot; 1, {et 1 . &
t aa 9 1, 4 a s.
| We[S| orese ee a 3 f ~ Qe
| mh 4 ch a, 4 be 9
| ’ | hat a9 9 2 o.
i \L_gevce wo ces! ik 0 va 4 3 gs
\ 2S DEX! alg so ‘ 5)
ben; sl 3
ae ot 2

Ig
‘ackKs.

<4ee
z
.

"
els or cenarste by.

by)

™
i
4
83
SESE
anes
9
og
8
Of

j/ on sht S13)

oa
Fa
Stes
4a “ace
oted:
re

Lads
is

101

259 of 326

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study


--- page 260 ---
260 of 326

--- page 261 ---
6. Mechanical Assessment

Alter
Engineers
San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 103

261 of 326


--- page 262 ---
262 of 326

--- page 263 ---
Introduction

The existing building consists of a lobby with support
spaces, locker and dressing rooms, multipurpose and
assembly spaces, as well as a commercial kitchen.

Existing Conditions

It appears that, other than the 1987 addition

related rooftop package units, the rest of the HVAC
equipment is original to the building. All of the
equipment is beyond it’s useful life and should be
replaced with an electric version of the existing
equipment type. The roof mounted ductwork and
associated equipment located outside appear to
have considerable weather damage and algae growth.

The multi-purpose rooms, meeting room, lobby, and
daycare are all heated and ventilated using horizontal
gas-fire furnaces hung above the ceilings. The
ductwork shall be inspected for reuse.

The gym and Meeting Room B are ventilated and
conditioned from rooftop gas packaged units. The
ductwork shall be inspected for reuse.

Existing Equipment

Existing Equipment and Notes

Multi-Purpose 1 Existing duct mounted, gas-fired horizontal furnace with supply and return air ducting,
connected to central supply fan in mechanical room. All interior equipment.

Fxisting rooftop packaged unit with roof mounted duct work

Daycare Fuisting duct mounted, gas-fired horizontal furnace with supply and return air ducting,
connected to central supply fan in mechanical room. All interior equipment.

Meeting Rm A, Mise. Existing duct mounted, gas-fired horizontal furnace with supply and return air ducting,
Support Spaces connected to central supply fan in mechanical room. All interior equipment.
Existing duct mounted, gas-fired horizontal furnace with supply and return air ducting,
connected to central supply fan in mechanical room. All interior equipment.

Multi-Purpose 2 and Stage ‘| Existing duct mounted, gas-fired horizontal furnace with supply and return air ducting,
connected to central supply fan in mechanical room. All interior equipment.

Multi-Purpose 3 Existing duct mounted, gas-fired horizontal furnace with supply and return air ducting,
connected to central supply fan in mechanical room. AND a dedicated gas-fired rooftop
package unit.

Meeting Roam B, Mise. Existing dedicated gas-fired rooftop package unit.
Support Spaces

Supply air from adjacent multi-purpose space system, grease exhaust fan

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 105
263 of 326


--- page 264 ---
Family Changing Room Unit Heater

Locker Room Exhaust Ductwork

Boiler Room Exhaust

Family Changing Room Unit Heater

Stage Supply Air Grilles

Pool Equioment Room Exhaust Fan

Multi-Purpose ceiling diffusers

106

264 of 326


--- page 265 ---
Assuming the interior program and spaces remain,
the existing equipment shall be replaced in kind

with an electric version if there is a gas connection
existing. However, load and airflow calculations shall
be completed prior to selecting equipment. The
sizes listed here are based on the existing equipment
heating capacities. When moving to all-electric, heat
pump equipment is the most likely replacement for
gas equipment. Heat pumps provide both heating and
cooling. If cooling is not desired, it can be locked out
at the unit controller. All heat pumps shall utilize R-32
or better refrigerant.

The existing horizontal furnaces shall be replaced
with high static ducted fan coils. Ductwork shall

be cleaned and reused if it is in good condition. All
air outlets and inlets shall be replaced with new.
Balancing dampers shall be added where needed
to correctly balance the systems. The fan coils shall
have refrigerant piping from the unit to the heat
pump outside. Each zone shall have a dedicated heat
pump. The central supply fan used for ventilation
shall be replaced with new and all ductwork
associated shall be replaced. The ventilation
ductwork shall have a filter box in-line, downstream
of the fan, and it shall be easily accessible for filter
changes. The filter box shall be capable of housing
a MERV 13 filter and a carbon filter. The carbon filter
would only be installed in a wildfire or smoke event.

The spaces with rooftop units shall have new heat
pump rooftop units installed. The roof penetrations
shall be reused where possible. Interior ductwork
that is in good condition and is sized for the new
system shall be cleaned and reused.

If the kitchen is remodeled, a new rooftop mounted
grease exhaust fan shall be installed as well as a
make-up air unit. The kitchen space is currently
conditioned from the adjacent multi-purpose

space and can remain that way. If the kitchen is

not remodeled and will be used as is, the kitchen
hood, exhaust fan, and make-up air systems that are
existing shall be serviced and rebalanced to ensure
proper space ventilation.

The women’s locker room has exposed exhaust
ductwork that has condensation dripping from the
exhaust air plenum. We recommend placing all

the ductwork within the building envelope and it
should be insulated to prevent condensation. The
men’s locker room exhaust should be replaced with
a similarly ducted system as the women’s to help
move air around the space. The exhaust system shall
be designed to provide ventilation but also prevent
stagnant, moist air from settling in the space.

All exterior equipment shall be provided with the
manufacturer’s corrosion resistant coating for salty
air, to be applied at the factory. The pool equipment
and chemical rooms shall be exhausted per the latest
codes and standards. All utility and equipment type
spaces shall be exhausted.

ali

ee! "|
ty

Outdoor Heat Pump

Indoor Ducted Fan Coil

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 107

265 of 326


--- page 266 ---
Preliminary Equipment List

Multi-Purpose 7 Split system with indoor, horizontal fan coil with new supply air and return air ducting,
mixing box with outside air connection through roof, outdoor heat pump unit on roof;
Daikin.6 ton split heat pump

Rooftop packaged heat pump unit, Daikin Rebel 15 ton; new ductwork on the roof.

Daycare Split system with indoor, horizontal fan coil with new supply air and return air ducting,
mixing box with outside air connection through roof, outdoor heat pump unit on roof:
Daikin 5 ton split heat pump

Meeting Rm A, Misc. Split system with indoor, horizontal fan coil with new supply air and return air ducting,
Support Spaces mixing box with outside air connection through roof, outdoor heat pump unit on roof:
Daikin 6 ton split heat pump

Split system with indoor, horizontal fan coil with new supply air and return air ducting,
mixing box with outside air connection through roof, outdoor heat pump unit on roof:
Daikin 6 ton split heat pump

Multi-Purpose 2 and Stage | Split system with indoor, horizontal fan coil with new supply air and return air ducting,
mixing box with outside air connection through roof, outdoor heat pump unit on roof;
Daikin 18 ton split heat pump

Multi-Purpose 3 Rooftop packaged heat pump unit, Daikin Rebel 12.4 ton; new ductwork on the roof.

Meeting Room B, Misc. Rooftop packaged heat pump unit, Daikin 3 ton; new ductwork on the roof.
Support Spaces

Kitchen Roof mounted upblast exhaust fan, CaptiveAire DU8SHFA; Roof mounted make-up air unit,
CaptivedAire CASRTUT-E 152-13-7.5T-DOAS.

Miscellaneous Exhaust

e (6) Inline exhaust fans and associated duct work,
all routed to the roof

¢ (1) Supply fan to replace the central ventilation
supply fan in the mechanical room

Controls and Instruments
¢ Stand-alone manufacturer’s controls (no central
controls)

108
266 of 326


--- page 267 ---
/. Plumbing Assessment

Alter
Engineers
San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 109

267 of 326


--- page 268 ---
268 of 326

--- page 269 ---
Existing Conditions

Most of the plumbing appears to be original copper
and cast iron from 1968. Record drawings (1987)
indicate water closets and lavatories were replaced.
1.6 GPF water closets with manual flushometers noted
on site walk and the lavatories include sensor faucets
(flowrate unknown)

Pool Equipment Room and Locker
Room Plumbing Fixtures

The gas-fired tank-type water heater that serves the
locker rooms is located within the pool equipment
room and includes a circ pump to reduce wait time
for hot water. Both the water heater and the circ
pump appear to have been replaced within the

past 10 years. The hot from the tank is routed to a
tempering valve to set a single hot water temperature
distributed up high along the back wall out to all
locker room fixtures. Mostly parallel with cold water
distribution piping.

Copper piping in mechanical room is green in places
(due to the pool chemicals in the air) but appears be
in good condition. No history of below grade leaks
was reported. Below grade sanitary piping has no
history of severe blockages besides the occasional
hair ball from the showers (based on site discussions
with the maintenance staff).

All shower fixtures are original and are operated by a
single hot water valve and a single cold water valve for
each head (no compliant pressure balance valve).

Community Center and Kitchen

The lavatory fixtures have under counter electric
tankless water heaters for handwashing.

The kitchen area is believed to be fed by an electric
tank typer water heater. Maintenance staff were
unable to identify the location of the existing water
heater. Maintenance staff identified a portion of the
sanitary line serving the kitchen sink that was recently
replaced because it had clogged and failed due to a
buildup of grease. The kitchen was flagged as an area
to be renovated to be modernized and possibly all
electric.

Central Thermostatic Mixing Vaive beside the tank

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study
269 of 326


--- page 270 ---
Recommendations

P1: Install Grease Interceptor to serve a grease

producing fixtures.

¢ This could be an undercounter grease trap
solution if it is determined that the sink is the
only grease producing fixture within the space.
Typically, floor sinks or floor drains are included
which would also have to route through the
grease interceptor which would require a below-
grade installation in the courtyard.

P2: Replace Fixtures to be improved and

compliant.

¢ This would improve user experience (sensor flush
at urinals and water closets)

e Shower valves replaced with modern compliant
pressure balance valves. (This may trigger
required modifications of floor drains)

e Refer to attached floor plans for fixture counts.

P3: Replace existing gas fired tank type water

heater for heat pump

¢ Replace the existing water heater with a 119 gallon
tank paired with multiple SANCO2 air source heat
pumps making use of all the existing connections
but using electricity instead of gas.

Undercounter Electric Tankless Water Heaters e The feasibility of this first will require City input
on how much showering they anticipate.

* Replace thermostatic mixing valve. It is not likely
that the existing mixing valve was listed to the
same safety standard as a modern thermostatic
mixing valve so to provide an improved level of
temperature control and scald protection.

P4: Camera the sanitary lines

¢ While not an immediate pain point, the existing
sanitary lines are over 50 years old and likely
include sags or cracks or root intrusion that can
be managed if it can be identified and remedied.

Manual Flushvalve for Floor mounted water closets

112
270 of 326


--- page 271 ---
Preliminary Equipment List

Undercounter Grease Interceptor at Kitchen - Electrifying Water Heater for Building

Schier GB-1 (6) SANCO2 Water Heaters (This represents
An undercounter is appropriate if only the about 25% of the capacity of the existing gas
3-comp sink generates grease. water heater.) ;

- With more source fixtures a slightly larger unit ° Install somewhere outside (luckily these blow
would be required and installed below grade. cold air during the summer and they are rela-

* Owner maintenance protocol is also import- tively quiet at 40dB)
ant aspect of the final design * WaterDrop provides pre-plumbed and wired

heat pumps on a rack for ease of installation.

Digital Mixing Valve: Leonard Proton - 3/4” Hot
Water Outlet
¢ Expansion Tank

WaterDrop Droplets
OO ——SSCSCSCés

Provide at least 5-1/2” clearance
above unit for routine
maintenance.

Central Thermostatic Mixing Vaive beside the tank Heat Pump Package on Rack (SANCO2 units)

GB? shown

Schier Hydromechanical Grease Interceptor Digital Mixing Valve

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 113
271 of 326


--- page 272 ---
272 of 326

--- page 273 ---
8 » Electrical Assessment

ERIJA

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 115
273 of 326


--- page 274 ---
274 of 326

--- page 275 ---
275 of 326

--- page 276 ---
276 of 326

--- page 277 ---
277 of 326

--- page 278 ---
278 of 326

--- page 279 ---
279 of 326

--- page 280 ---
280 of 326

--- page 281 ---
Q Conceptual Design Cost Plan

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study
281 of 326


--- page 282 ---
282 of 326

--- page 283 ---
283 of 326

--- page 284 ---
284 of 326

--- page 285 ---
Conceptual Design Cost Plan

Commentary
Martin Luther King Community Center

Introduction
Basis of Cost
Assumptions

Exclusions

March 8, 2024

mack®

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 127
285 of 326



--- page 286 ---
128

Risk Register

Project Scope

Basis of Cost

° Introduction

mack®

mack5 was requested to carry out a Conceptual Design Cost
Plan for the proposed renovation of existing Martin Luther King
Community Center, located at 725 Monte Diablo Ave., San
Mateo, CA 94403.

The first part of the Report contains the basis of the report, the
assumptions made, description of the project scope, and
exclusions to the costs which contain items that have potential to
impact cost at some point in the future.

The Overall Summary section contains a Summary of Gross
Floor Areas, an Overall Project Summary, and Component and
Trade Cost Summaries with Graphs.

Each section contains Control Quantities, a Cost Summary and
Graph, and a Detailed Breakdown of Costs.

286 of 326


--- page 287 ---
mack®

The City of San Mateo wishes to renovate their existing Martin Luther King Community Center. The
project consists of an assessment of the current physical conditions of the pool and existing
buildings, including structural analysis, facility assessments of the pool decks, buildings
shells/finishes, equipment & pipings, and code & accessibility requirement.

pricing documents

(a)
(b)
(c)

(d)

(e)
(f)

(a)
(b)
(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)
(9g)
(h)

Preliminary estimate package prepared by ELS, dated
02/29/2024

IDA Structural Engineers Memorandum, dated 2/7/2024
Mechanical/Plumbing narrative, dated 2/7/2024

Electrical narrative prepared by RIJA Consulting, dated
2/23/2024

Existing building documents

Construction will start in March, 2026
A construction period of 8 months

The general contract will be competitively bid by a minimum of
five (5) qualified contractors

The general contractor will have full access to the site during
normal business hours

There are no phasing requirements

The contractor will be required to pay prevailing wages

Cost escalation beyond a midpoint of July, 2026
Loose furniture and equipment except as specifically identified

Compression of schedule, premium or shift work, and restrictions
on the contractor's working hours

Soft Cost such as testing and inspection fees, architectural
design and construction management fees, assessments, taxes,
finance, legal and development charges

Scope change and post contract contingencies
Environmental impact mitigation

Temporary housing for displaced management and staff

Moving and relocation cost

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 129

287 of 326


--- page 288 ---
288 of 326

--- page 289 ---
Conceptual Design Cost Plan

Overall Summary
Martin Luther King Community Center

Gross Floor Areas
Overall Summary
Component Summary
Trade Summary

March 8, 2024

mack®

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 131
289 of 326



--- page 290 ---
290 of 326

--- page 291 ---
mack®

PRIORITY 1: Area % $/SF $,000
(N) Building Addition for Pool Equipment - Allowance 525SF 4% $900.00 $473
(E) Building Remodel & Upgrade 23,789 SF 65% $316.66 $7,533
(E) Swimming Pool Remodel 11,490 SF 30% $303.22 $3,484
Site Improvement 1,360SF 1% $109.56 $149
PRIORITY 2: $,000

Remodel (E) Kitchen To Be All-Electirc $493
Replace (E) Paving And Improve Courtyard Drainage $263
TBD

(N) All-Electric Pool Equipment & Electrical Service Upgrade

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 133

291 of 326


--- page 292 ---
292 of 326

--- page 293 ---
Figure 4: View of building and high roof at gym

mac®

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 135
293 of 326



--- page 294 ---
294 of 326

--- page 295 ---
Enclosed Areas
(N) Building Addition, 525SF
(E) Building Remodel (New Toilets,
Showers, Lockers & Changing AReas)
(E) Building Remodel (Storage/office/lobby)
(E) Building Upgrade (Excluding
Architectural)

see Overall Summary

1,728
1,516

20,545

macl®

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study

295 of 326

137


--- page 296 ---
i mack®

CSI UniFormat Summary 23,789SF % $/SF $,000
SUBSTRUCTURE
Foundations 8% $25.00 $595
SHELL
Superstructure 16% $50.00 $1,189
Enclosure 2% $6.94 $165
Roofing 6% $20.00 $476
INTERIORS
Interior Construction 5% $16.04 $382
Stairs - - -
Interior Finishes 5% $16.20 $385
SERVICES
Conveying - - -
Plumbing 3% $8.83 $210
Heating, Ventilation, & Air Conditioning 10% $30.13 $717
Fire Protection 0% $0.87 $21
Electrical 7% $21.40 $509
EQUIPMENT & FURNISHINGS
Equipment 0% $0.74 $18
Furnishings 0% $1.13 $27
Selective Building Demolition 0% $1.36 $32
Bonds & Insurance 3.00% 2% $5.96 $142
General Conditions 10.00% 6% $20.46 $487
Contractor's Overhead & Profit 5.00% 4% $11.25 $268
Design Contingency 20.00% 15% $47.27 $1,124
Cost Escalation 11.67% 10% $33.09 $787
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION BUDGET 100% $316.66 $7,533

NOTE: Inclusions and Exclusions listed in the Commentary Section.

138
296 of 326


--- page 297 ---
: mack®

CS/ UniFormat Summary

Foundations
Superstructure
Enclosure
Roofing
Interior Construction
Stairs
Interior Finishes
Conveying
Plumbing
Heating, Ventilation, & Air Conditioning
Fire Protection
Electrical
Equipment
Furnishings
Bonds & Insurance
General Conditions
Contractor's Overhead & Profit

Design Contingency

Cost Escalation

5 SZ & S S 8 S 8
oO wy % (ey GD 7 7

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study
297 of 326

139


--- page 298 ---
' mack®

FOUNDATIONS

Standard Foundations
Allowance for seismic retrofit 23,789 GSF $25.00 $594,725

Subtotal For Foundations: | $594,725

SUPERSTRUCTURE

Structural Framing
Allowance for seismic retrofit 23,789 GSF $50.00 $1,189,450

Subtotal For Superstructure: — $1,189,450

ENCLOSURE

Wall Framing, Furring & Insulation + Exterior Finishes
Allowance for Locker Room remodel only 3,244 SF $50.00 $162,200

Exterior Doors, Frames And Door Hardware
(N) Automatic door operators at exits from
locker rooms to pool deck 2 EA $1,500.00 $3,000

Subtotal For Enclosure: $165,200

ROOFING

Roof Coverings - Entire Roof
Allowance for roof repairs - Owners report for
ongoing issues with roof leaking and water
accumulation within the layers of the roof
assembly 23,789 SF $20.00 $475,780

Subtotal For Roofing: $475,780

140
298 of 326


--- page 299 ---
' mack®

INTERIOR CONSTRUCTION
Note: Only At Locker Room Remodel Area

Interior Partitions (Locker Room Remodel Only)
Non-rated partition; including metal stud
framing, insulation and gypsum board on both
sides 310 LF $432.00 $133,920
Backing and blocking, provide 16 gauge or
heavier metal blocking and backing at all wall
or ceiling mounted items including but not
limited to light fixtures, handrails, grab bars,
cabinetry, bulletin boards, equipment,
shelving, signage, etc. 3,244 SF $2.00 $6,488

Interior Doors & Door Hardware
(N) Connection from community center to

locker rooms and pool deck 2 EA $6,000.00 $12,000

(N) Single leaf door 9 EA $4,000.00 $36,000
Fittings

Protective guards, barriers and bumpers 3,244 SF $0.50 $1,622
Toilet fittings and accessories

Standard toilet partition, phenolic 2 EA $1,800.00 $3,600

ADA toilet partition, phenolic 2 EA $2,000.00 $4,000

Shower enclosure, phenolic 4 EA $3,000.00 $12,000

Urinal screen, phenolic 2 EA $500.00 $1,000

Toilet accessories; including toilet tissue

dispenser, napkin disposal, seat cover

dispenser, soap dispenser, waste receptacle,

grab bar, paper towel dispenser, wall mirror,

etc. 4 STALL $5,000.00 $20,000
Shelving and millwork

Janitor's mop and broom holder 1 EA $500.00 $500

Quartz solid surface vanity countertop &

backsplash (12.1) 12 LF $350.00 $4,200

Custom wood reception desk with lower &

upper soiled surface countertop and low

swing doors 1 LS $10,000.00 $10,000
Custom casework at breakroom, ‘st aid, office &
lobby

Allowance 1,516 SF $10.00 $15,160

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 141

299 of 326


--- page 300 ---
' mack®

INTERIOR CONSTRUCTION
Note: Only At Locker Room Remodel Area

Chalkboards, insignia and graphics

Door signage 11. EA $200.00 $2,200

Directional/wayfinding & code signage 3,244 SF $3.00 $9,732
Miscellaneous

Rough carpentry 3,244 SF $2.00 $6,488

Cut/patch and repair areas affected by the

structural/mechanical/elecrical upgrade 20,545 GSF $5.00 $102,725

Subtotal For Interior Construction: $381,635
STAIRS
No Work Anticipated In This Section
Subtotal For Stairs: ©
INTERIOR FINISHES
Note: Only At Locker Room Remodel Area

Floor Finishes

Vinyl sheet at offices/lobby 816 SF $16.00 $13,056

Ceramic floor tile at changing & restrooms 1,728 SF $35.00 $60,480

Sealed concrete at storage 700 «SF $4.00 $2,800
Bases

Rubber base (B1) 902 LF $5.00 $4,510
Wall Finishes

Ceramic wall tile 3,390 SF $35.00 $118,650

Ceiling Finishes
Gypsum board, waster resistant at wet
locations, painted (C1) 1,728 SF $35.00 $60,480
Ceiling at office/lobby 1,516 SF $15.00 $22,740

Miscellaneous - Allowance

Cut/patch and repair areas affected by the
structural/mechanical/elecrical upgrade 20,545 GSF $5.00 $102,725

Subtotal For Interior Finishes: $385,441

142
300 of 326


--- page 301 ---
CONVEYING

No Work Anticipated In This Section

PLUMBING

Fixtures & Associated piping; (N) water-efficient
plumbing fixture at remodelled locker room

Remodel and reconfigure locker rooms with
new showers; New water-efficient plumbing
fixtures, including minimum 2 toilets and 2
urinals for men, 2 toilets for women, 2
lavatories for each and 2 showers each for
men and women, 6 Floor drains

Equipment
Sanco2 heat pump
Tank, 119 gal
Grease interceptor at sink, plus drains

Plumbing related items & Demo

HEATING, VENTILATION, & AIR-CONDITIONING

Equipment
Multipurpose / Meeting Room / Lobby;
Packaged Heat pump, 6 ton
Indoor Fan Coil
Refrigerant line sets
Gym;
Rooftop packaged heat pump, 15 ton
Daycare
Packaged Heat pump, 5 ton
Indoor Fan Coil
Refrigerant line sets
Multipurpose 2 / Stage;
Packaged Heat pump, 18 ton
Indoor Fan Coil
Refrigerant line sets

mack®

Subtotal ForConveying:

20 EA $6,500.00 $130,000

EA $5,500.00 $33,000
1 EA $12,000.00 $12,000
1 EA $10,000.00 $10,000
1 LS $25,000.00 $25,000

Subtotal For Plumbing: $210,000

3. EA $50,000.00 $150,000
3. EA $4,500.00 $13,500
420 LF $48.00 $20,160

1 EA $140,000.00 $140,000

1 EA $45,000.00 $45,000
1 EA $4,000.00 $4,000
200 =LF $48.00 $9,600
1 EA $196,000.00 $196,000
1 EA $7,000.00 $7,000
200 +=LF $48.00 $9,600

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study

301 of 326


--- page 302 ---
' mack®

HEATING, VENTILATION, & AIR-CONDITIONING

Equipment
Multipurpose 3;
Rooftop packaged heat pump, 12.5 ton 1 EA $60,000.00 $60,000
Meeting rm B
Rooftop packaged heat pump, 3 ton 1 EA $12,000.00 $12,000
Kitchen;
MAU & Exhaust NIC, See Priority 2
General exhaust NIC, See Priority 2

Distribution & Control included above
Energy recovery ventilator NIC, Not in design
HVAC Related items & Demo 1 LS $50,000.00 $50,000

Subtotal For Heating, Ventilation, & Air-Conditioning: $716,860

FIRE PROTECTION

Fire Sprinkler System
Allowance at remodelled locker room 1,728 SF $12.00 $20,736
Subtotal For Fire Protection: $20,736
ELECTRICAL
Electrical Service Upgrade NIC, See Priority 2
Standby Power System:
Solaredge Backup Interface 1 EA $7,000.00 $7,000
400A standby power panel with 200AMCB
208/120V 1Ph 1 EA $8,700.00 $8,700
Panel 100A 208/120V 1Ph 2 EA $3,500.00 $7,000
24kW Grid-tied PV system with 38.8kW Li lon
battery system 1 EA $114,000.00 $114,000
Structural steel support - allowance 1 LS $18,000.00 $18,000
AC Feeder allowance 1 LS $25,000.00 $25,000
1

PV conduit infrastructure allowance LS $15,000.00 $15,000

144
302 of 326


--- page 303 ---
' mack®

ELECTRICAL

Machine and Equipment Connections
Replace Mechanical and water heater
connections:
Multi-purpose 1 - split system with indoor fan
coil/outdoor heat pump on roof - 6 ton split

heat pump 1 EA $5,250.00 $5,250
Gym - Rooftop pckaged heat pump unit - 15
ton 1 EA $8,235.00 $8,235

Daycare - split system with indoor fan

coil//outdoor heat pump on roof - 5 ton split

heat pump 1 EA $5,250.00 $5,250
Meeting room A/Misc Support Areas - split

system with indoor fan coil/outdoor heat pump

on roof - 6 ton split heat pump 1 EA $5,250.00 $5,250
Lobby - split system with indoor fan

coil/outdoor heat pump on roof - 6 ton split

heat pump 1 EA $5,250.00 $5,250
Multi-purpose 2 and Stage - split system with

indoor fan coil/outdoor heat pump on roof - 18

ton split heat pump 1 EA $9,250.00 $9,250
Multi-purpose 3 - split system with indoor fan

coil/outdoor heat pump on roof - 12.5 ton split

heat pump 1 EA $7,750.00 $7,750

Meeting room B/Misc Support Areas - Rooftop

packaged heat pump unit - 3 ton 1 EA $4,275.00 $4,275

Kitchen - roof mounted upblast exhaust

fan/roof mounted mak-up air unit 1 EA $5,250.00 $5,250

Misc exhaust - inline exhaust fans mounted

on roof 6 EA $2,865.00 $17,190
Resilency Items:

Replace existing water heater with 119 gal
tank paited with multiple SANCO2 air source

heat pumps using electricity onstead of gas 6 EA $4,285.00 $25,710
New ADO at exits from lockers rooms to pool
deck - ADO power connections 2 EA $3,500.00 $7,000
Addition of 525 sf to house new equipment -
electrical works - lighting, power, fire alarm Included In Overall Summary - (N) Bldg Addition
San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 145

303 of 326


--- page 304 ---
' mack®

ELECTRICAL

Power Receptacles and Misc Power
New power receptacles throughout based on
proposed program 3,244 SF $10.00 $32,440

Lighting & Branch Wiring
New interior and exterior LED lighting through

out
3,244 SF $25.00 $81,100
Lighting Control and Branch Wiring
New energy compiant lighting controls 3,244 SF $7.00 $22,708
Communications, AV, PA, FA & Security
Telecom Excluded
AV Conduit rough-ins only Excluded
Paging System Excluded
Fully addressable fire alarm system Excluded
Access Control System/Intrusion Burglar Alarm
System
New exits from pool deck, panic hardware -
allow site card reader 3 EA $5,500.00 $16,500
CCTV Surveillance Camera System Excluded
Miscellaneous Electrical Work
Permits/Fees 1 LS $5,000.00 $5,000
Selective Trade demolition - electrical 1 LS $20,000.00 $20,000
Temporary Power 1 LS $12,500.00 $12,500
Seismic Bracing/Firesealing/Grounding
allowance 1 LS $8,500.00 $8,500
Testing & commissioning/Coordination 1 LS $10,000.00 $10,000

Subtotal For Electrical: | $509,108

146
304 of 326


--- page 305 ---
' mack®

EQUIPMENT
Note: Only At Locker Room Remodel Area
Miscellaneous Equipment - Allowance

Breakroom and 1st Aid Room equipment;
including refrigerator, ice machine,

microwave, etc. 1 LS $10,000.00 $10,000
Swimsuit spinner 1 EA $2,500.00 $2,500
Flat screen TV, wall mounted 1 EA $5,000.00 $5,000

Subtotal For Equipment: $17,500

FURNISHINGS
Note: Only At Locker Room Remodel Area

Amenities & convenience items

Phenolic lockers & pedestal bench 1,728 SF $15.00 $25,920

Portable Fire extinguisher - allowance 2 EA $500.00 $1,000
Moveable Furnishings

FF&E Allowance NIC, OFOI

Conference/meeting tables and chairs NIC, OFOI

Office tables and chairs NIC, OFOI

Subtotal For Furnishings: | $26,920

SELECTIVE BUILDING DEMOLITION
Interior Building Demolition

Interior demolition; including walls/doors and
floor/wall/ceiling finishes - remodelled area 3,244 SF $10.00 $32,440
Hazardous Materials Abatement NIC, Excluded

Subtotal For Selective Building Demolition: | $32,440

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 147
305 of 326


--- page 306 ---
306 of 326

--- page 307 ---
Ap GO, $ZT IN “rd

Avie SN Ae

J wif Ae ae te

PR MEE Me” 1 Ee) ST
Y.-S T_T

mac®

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 149
307 of 326


--- page 308 ---
308 of 326

--- page 309 ---
' maclk®

Swimming Pool Areas

Swimming Pool 2,585
Pool deck 8,905
San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 151

309 of 326


--- page 310 ---
i mack®

CSI UniFormat Summary 11,490SF % $/SF $,000

Site Preparation 0% $0.00 $0
Site Improvement 0% $0.00 $0
Site Mechanical Utilities 0% $0.00 $0
Site Electrical Utilities 0% $0.00 $0
Swimming Pool Budget (Excluding Pool Deck) 63% $190.14 $2,185
Bonds & Insurance 3.00% 2% $5.70 $66
General Conditions 10.00% 6% $19.58 $225
Contractor's Overhead & Profit 5.00% 4% $10.77 $124
Design Contingency 20.00% 15% $45.26 $520
Cost Escalation 11.67% 10% $31.68 $364
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION BUDGET 100% $303.22 $3,484

NOTE: Inclusions and Exclusions listed in the Commentary Section.

152
310 of 326


--- page 311 ---
' mack®

SITE PREPARATION
Site Protective Construction
Erosion control; including storm drain inlet

protection, fiber rolls, stabilized construction
entrance/exit, and curb inlet sediment dam

(Outdoor swimming pool area only) Included Under Site Improvement
Subtotal For Site Preparation:
SITE IMPROVEMENT

Pool Deck
Concrete pool deck included in swimming pole Budget

Subtotal For Sitelmprovement: =

SITE MECHANICAL UTILITIES
Pool Water Heating
Pool Heat pump, pool heat exchanger,

valves, piping and associated connections included in swimming pole Budget

Subtotal For Site Mechanical Utilities: 4 4 8

SITE ELECTRICAL UTILITIES

Service and Distribution - Pool Included In Swimming Pool Budget
Machine and Equipment Connection Included In Swimming Pool Budget
Power Receptacles and Misc Power

Connections Included In Swimming Pool Budget
Lighting and Power Specialties Wiring Included In Swimming Pool Budget

Communications, AV, PA, FA & Security

Subtotal For Site Electrical Utilities: 4

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study

311 of 326

153


--- page 312 ---
' mack®

SWIMMING POOL BUDGET

Swimming Pool Budget (provided by Aquatic
Design Group thru els)
1.0 Code Concerns

(N) Mechanical and chemical equipment to

rectify code violation 1 LS $650,000.00 $650,000
(N) Deck and deck drainage 1 LS $505,000.00 $505,000
(N) Depth markers/Safety signage 1 LS $4,000.00 $5,000

(N) ADA Access for pools; including ADA
compliant chair lifts and stairs with dual ADA

compliant handrail 1 LS $65,000.00 $65,000
Convert pools to skimmer pools 1 LS $260,000.00 $260,000
Containment for Chlorine 1 LS $2,000.00 $2,000
Gauges for circulation pump 1 LS $400.00 $400
2.0 Maintenance & Operations

(N) Pool finishes 1 LS $215,000.00 $215,000
(N) Under pool piping 1 LS $325,000.00 $325,000
Eliminate surge tank 1 LS $30,000.00 $30,000
(N) Chemical storage room door hardware 1 LS $2,350.00 $2,350
(N) Acid room door hardware and NFPA 1 LS $5,000.00 $5,000
(N) Acid room finishes 1 LS $15,000.00 $15,000
(N) Mechanical/chemical building space to

accommodate additional equipment see Overall Summary
(N) Underwater LED pool lights 1 LS $45,000.00 $45,000
Eliminate small pool 1 LS $60,000.00 $60,000

Subtotal For Swimming Pool Budget: $2,184,750

154
312 of 326


--- page 313 ---
Conceptual Design Cost Plan

Site Improvement
Martin Luther King Community Center

Site Improvement Summary
Detailed Cost Breakdown

March 8, 2024

mack®

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 155
313 of 326



--- page 314 ---
Site Improvement Control Quantities Job #24842 M a Cc kL
March 8, 2024

Site Area
(N) Transition Zone For Access To Pool Deck 1,046
(N) Exit Pathway 314

Subtotal of Enclosed Area 1,360

156
314 of 326


--- page 315 ---
i mack®

CSI UniFormat Summary 1,360SF % $/SF $,000

Site Preparation 5% $5.71 $8
Site Improvement 58% $63.03 $86
Site Mechanical Utilities 0% $0.00 $0
Site Electrical Utilities 0% $0.00 $0
Bonds & Insurance 3.00% 2% $2.06 $3
General Conditions 10.00% 6% $7.08 $10
Contractor's Overhead & Profit 5.00% 4% $3.89 $5
Design Contingency 20.00% 15% $16.32 $22
Cost Escalation 11.67% 0% $11.43 $16
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION BUDGET 100% $109.56 $149

NOTE: Inclusions and Exclusions listed in the Commentary Section.

CSI UniFormat Summary
Site Preparation
Site Improvement
Site Mechanical Utilities
Site Electrical Utilities
Bonds & Insurance
General Conditions
Contractor's Overhead & Profit

Design Contingency

% Sy & % G fm RB f & & So,
San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 157

315 of 326


--- page 316 ---
SITE PREPARATION

Site Demolition

Demo and remove (E) area for transition zone
for access to pool deck

Demo and remove (E) landscape area, for
new exit walkway

Demo and remove (E) chainlink fence due to
building expansion

Site Protective Construction

SWPP/Erosion control; including storm drain
inlet protection, fiber rolls, stabilized
construction entrance/exit, and curb inlet

SITE IMPROVEMENT

Pedestrian Paving

(N) Apron/accessible transition at pool deck
(N) Exit pathway
Connect to (E) path in the park

(N) Courtyard, Priority 2

Courtyard paving
Drainage

Landscaping

Modify (E) planting area as required for new
exits and exit pathway - allowance

Fencing & Miscellaneous Accessories

158

(N) Exit gates with panic hardware,
single leaf 4'-O"wide

1,046

314

1

SF

SF

LS

LS

mack®

$3.00 $3,138
$2.00 $628
$3,000.00 $3,000
$1,000.00 $1,000

Subtotal For Site Preparation: | —- $7,766

1,046
314
40

3

SF
SF
LF

LS

EA

$50.00 $52,300
$30.00 $9,420
$100.00 $4,000

NIC, See Priority 2
NIC, See Priority 2

$5,000.00 $5,000

$5,000.00 $15,000

Subtotal For Site Improvement: $85,720

316 of 326


--- page 317 ---
Conceptual Design Cost Plan

Priority 2
Martin Luther King Community Center

Alternates Cost Breakdown

March 8, 2024

mack®

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 159
317 of 326



--- page 318 ---
WORKSPACE (COL WIDTH TOTAL = 85.67 / 8")

mack

ADD:
Structural Upgrades - allowance 400 SF $50.00 $20,000
Finishes
Floor Finishes 400 SF $35.00 $14,000
Wall Finishes 1,040 SF $35.00 $36,400
Ceiling finishes 400 SF $20.00 $8,000
Equipments

(N) All-electric kitchen equipments, meeting
health department requirements for
commercial kitchen including grease trap, 3-
compartment sink, handwash sink, dry

storage 400 SF $450.00 $180,000
Kitchen HVAC

MAU & Exhaust 1 LS $10,000.00 $10,000

General exhaust 6 EA $2,500.00 $15,000
Electrical

Provide new all-electrical kitchen meeting
health department requirements for
commercial kitchen - provide power

connections 400 SF $65.00 $26,000

59.41% $183,824
Subtotal for Remodel (E) Kitchen To Be All-Electirc: $493,224

Demolition

Demo and remove (E) courtyard 3,298 SF $5.00 $16,490

(N) Courtyard, Priority 2
Courtyard paving 3,298 SF $35.00 $115,430
Drainage 3,298 SF $10.00 $32,980
59.41% $97,972
Subtotal for Replace (E) Paving And Improve Courtyard Drainage:| $262,872

160

318 of 326


--- page 319 ---
mack®

Service and Distribution
Upgrade existing service from 600A to 1000A
208/120V. Upgrade existing transformer pad
and main indoor switchboard, 36kAIC and

feeder breakers. Upgrade associated feeders 1 EA $101,400.00 $101,400
Replace equipment below:
Panel 250A 208/120V 3Ph 22kAIC for Pool 1 EA $7,500.00 $7,500
Panel 250A 208/120V 3Ph 22kAIC for HVAC
1 EA $7,500.00 $7,500
Panel 150A 208/120V 3Ph 22kAIC for hot
water systems 1 EA $5,100.00 $5,100
Panel 150A 208/120V 3Ph 22kAIC for
Auditorium 1 EA $5,100.00 $5,100
Panel 150A 208/120V 3Ph 22kAIC for 4 EA $5,100.00 $20,400
Provide TVSS for each panelboard 8 EA $4,100.00 $32,800
59.41% $106,825

Subtotal for (N) All-Electric Pool Equipment & Electrical Service Upgrade: $286,625

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 161
319 of 326


--- page 320 ---
320 of 326

--- page 321 ---
1 @ Appendix:
e site Visit Notes and Code Analysis

el Ss architecture+
urban design

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study 163
321 of 326


--- page 322 ---
322 of 326

--- page 323 ---
323 of 326

--- page 324 ---
324 of 326

--- page 325 ---
Code Review

Plumbing Fixture Count (for Locker Rooms) per CBC
3116B:

Water Area:

Lap Pool 2,628 sf
Tot Pool 330 sf

Total Area —" 958 sf
Total Users (@1 user/15 sf water area | 98 |
Users, Male and Female:

Plumbing Fixtures Required in Locker Rooms(CBC
3116B):

Toilets 2
Urinals
Lavatories
Showers (one per 50 pool users)
Drinking Fountains 2

Pool Deck Exiting:

CBC Table 1004.5 includes the following allowances

Skating rinks, swimming pools

Rink and pool 50 gross
Area Occupant
Load
Pool Water 2,958 sf 60
Pool Deck (gross area) 8,259 sf 551
Total 11,217 611

Minimum 3 exits required per CBC Table 1006.3.3 (4
exits required if occupant load exceeds 1000.)

Exit width required (using an occupant load factor of
0.2 (per CBC 1005.3.2)): 122.2” or 10’-1”. One existing
4’ wide gate with panic hardware exits from the pool
area out towards the street.

In future, a discussion with the building official

could be helpful to review how the occupant load is

calculated, whether exiting can go back through the

building, and whether some areas can be designated
s “Safe Dispersal Areas” within the fence line per

CBC 1028.5.

San Mateo MLK Community Center Resiliency and Feasibility Study

CBC Chapter 31B, Public Pools

Pool configuration, CBC 3111B- 3115B: By ADG

SII4B.3 Deck slope. The pool's deck surface shall have a
slope of no less than 1 percent ('/, inch per foot) but no mere
than 2 percent ft  ineh per foot) away from the pool te a deck
drainage svstem and shall be constructed and finished to pre-
vent standing water.

CBC 3116B Dressing, Shower and Toilet Facilities

3116B.2 Number of sanitary facilities. For the purpase of
this subsection, one pool user shall be considered for everv
15 square feet (1.39 m’) of pool water surface area and/or
sprav ground splash zane area.

3116B.2.] Showers, One shower shall be provided for
every 30 pool users,

3116B.2.2 Toilets. Separate toilet facilities shall be pro-
vided for each sex. One toilet shall be provided for every
60 women or less and one toiler plus one urinal for every
75 men or less.

3116B.2.3 Lavatories, One lavatory shall be provided for
every 50 pool users.

CBC 3116B.3 Construction

SI168.3 Construction,

3116B.3.1 Floors. Floors shall have a hard, nonabsorbent
surface, such as portland cement concrete, ceramic tile or
other approved material, which extends upwards onto the
well at least 5 inches (127 nan) with a caved base, Floars
whieh may be walked an by a wet pool user shall be slip
resistant. Floors shall be sloped not less than '/, inch (6.4
au) per foet te floor drains er other approved surface
water disposal areas, Carpeting and other similar artificial
floor covering shall not be permitted on shower and toilet
roam floars,

3116B8.3.2 Interior surfaces. The materials wed in the

walls, except for structural elements, shall be of a tvpe
which is not adversely affected by moisture.

SECTION 31178
DRINKING FOUNTAINS
One guarded jet drinking fountain shall be provided for tle
first 250 pool users and an additional fountain shall be pro-
vided for each additional 200 pool users or fraction thereof.

The number of pool wsers shall be determined according to
Section 31168. 2.

167
325 of 326


--- page 326 ---
326 of 326