source: packet.pdf
sha256: e9bbb63a37785caccac05735f08222445d6542b5e11b33f063d49644183c75cb
pages: 13
ocr_pages: 1
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting
November 16, 2020
5:30 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Joe Goethals, Mayor
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor
Rick Bonilla
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
PURSUANT TO AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS – 
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN­PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: November 16, 2020 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone:  (408) 638‐0968      
Conference ID: 865 4495 0771     Passcode: 221595 
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the Council's consideration of these items.
1.
Revenue Sources Including a Billboard Program, On Building Advertising, Naming Rights, and the Sale of
Surplus Property
Receive report from staff and provide direction on which revenue sources to pursue.
2.
Community Development Block Grant Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security – Funding Options
Provide staff direction for use of Community Development Block Grant Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic
Security funds to address COVID‐19.
ADJOURNMENT
­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the
agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522‐7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522‐7040, Monday‐Friday, 8 a.m. ‐ 5 p.m.
1 of 13

--- page 2 ---
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel‐San‐Mateo‐Live‐Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted
by default. When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the
appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638‐0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the
item of interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and
provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to
participate in this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522‐7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours
prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 13

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 20-3873
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Attorney Department
MEETING DATE:
November 16, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Revenue Sources Including a Billboard Program, On Building Advertising, Naming Rights, and the Sale of Surplus Property
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive report from staff and provide direction on which revenue sources to pursue.
BACKGROUND:
At its priority setting session earlier this year, city staff reported to the Council on the fiscal challenges that appear on the 
horizon. These challenges have only been exacerbated by the economic impacts caused by the coronavirus pandemic. The 
City Council directed staff to prepare a ballot measure to increase the City's transient occupancy tax, and this measure was 
adopted by the voters at the recent election.   The Council also directed staff to explore non-tax revenue sources. The 
Council specifically mentioned naming rights on city facilities and a billboard program like one adopted by the City of San 
Carlos. The Council directed staff to research these options and explore others and report back to the Council for further 
direction. 
San Carlos Billboard Program
Like many suburban communities, San Carlos has adopted a sign code that, as a general rule, bans billboards within the 
city.  However, the city’s code includes an exception to this ban that allows for the placement of billboards on property 
that the city owns or leases.  Through this program San Carlos has approved 4 billboards and raises revenue through leases 
with billboards companies. 
When the Council raised this program as a potential revenue source, the City Attorney expressed concerns about the 
potential for legal challenges. Concerns included a challenge under federal antitrust law as it appears the program places 
the city in a monopoly position with respect to billboards, as well as concerns under the First Amendment.  
Research into caselaw suggests that if challenged on antitrust grounds, the program would likely be upheld against such a 
challenge. In general, states enjoy immunity from antitrust liability and this immunity is transferred to local government 
when it acts pursuant to regulatory authority granted by the state.  California has granted cities broad authority to 
regulate land uses including the placement of billboards.  The city would likely enjoy immunity from an antitrust challenge 
if it adopted a program like the San Carlos program.  In 1991, the U.S. Supreme Court in a published opinion concerning a 
challenge to a city’s billboard ban suggested that a city might lose its antitrust immunity if it was acting as a “market 
participant”, as opposed to a regulator.  However, this suggestion has not been adopted in subsequent cases.  Moreover, 
in an opinion published in 2019, the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals rejected an antitrust claim asserted against an Illinois 
city that had adopted an ordinance like the San Carlos ordinance without addressing the possible market participant 
exception.  In rejecting the antitrust claim, the court found that the city was not liable because the plaintiffs had not 
established a required element that the city have a monopoly power in a relevant market.  In reaching this conclusion the 
3 of 13

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
court noted that the city’s ordinance only applied within its borders and there had been no showing the ordinance would 
erect legal or economic barriers to competition in surrounding areas.  
It is less certain that a billboard program modeled on the San Carlos code would survive a challenge brought on First 
Amendment grounds.  Billboards involve speech and, as a consequence, efforts to regulate them must respect First 
Amendment limits.  The business of outdoor advertising through messages on billboards is subject to government 
regulation; however, the law requires that such regulations must (1) be aimed at achieving “a substantial interest;” (2) the 
restriction must “directly advance the substantial interest involved”; and (3) “the regulation must not be more extensive 
than is necessary to serve that interest.”  There is concern that a court might not find the required connection between 
the City’s stated purpose for prohibiting billboards, while allowing them on city property.  Like most municipal sign codes, 
San Mateo regulates signs to “protect and enhance the visual and aesthetic character of [the city] by prohibiting the visual 
clutter of obtrusive and incompatible signs.”  The City seeks to achieve this goal by, among other things, banning 
billboards.  If the City were to adopt an ordinance allowing for billboards to be placed only on city property, it would be 
difficult to argue that such a scheme directly advances the City’s interest in regulating signs.  
In September 2020, a billboard company in Texas sued a city that enacted a billboard ordinance like the San Carlos 
ordinance.  The complaint asserts that the ordinance violates the First Amendment rights of the sign company and argues 
that the ordinance does not advance its stated goals of avoiding visual clutter potentially harmful to traffic safety and 
community appearance.  The company argues there can be no showing that billboards on city controlled property are any 
less visually obtrusive than those on private property.  Staff suggests that if the Council is interested in pursuing a program 
like the one in San Carlos, that staff be directed to monitor the developments in this case before moving forward.  
Advertising on Buildings
After a study session discussion on electronic billboards, the City was approached about the potential for allowing offsite 
advertising on buildings, either public facilities or private facilities.  The proposal included a commitment by the advertisers 
to pay a share of their income to the City in exchange for allowing such advertising. Allowing for offsite advertising on 
buildings would necessitate changes to the municipal code.  Further, conditioning the approval of such installations on the 
payment to the City might be subject to the same First Amendment concerns discussed above. Should Council be 
interested in pursuing this further, staff will research the municipal code changes necessary, as well as any other 
implications for allowing this type of advertising.
Naming Rights
The issue of naming rights for City facilities has also been brought up as a potential way to generate revenue.  On the 
surface, allowing naming rights on City facilities is predominantly a policy issue that does not create some of the potential 
legal concerns identified for electronic billboards.  Should Council be interested in pursuing this further, staff will return at 
a future study session with the policy considerations for Council input, feedback, and direction. 
Surplus Property
The City has had inquiries from real estate developers interested in developing two surface parking lots Downtown, 
including the 57-space Talbot’s lot directly behind the former Talbot’s store accessed at 4th Avenue and Railroad Avenue 
and the 40-space Ravioli House lot off of B Street between 5th and 6th Avenue.  Both of these lots would be subject to the 
state Surplus Lands Act, which is codified at Government Code Sections 54220 and following and requires that the City first 
make the properties available to specified entities (including affordable housing developers, park and recreation districts, 
and school districts) prior to disposing of the property to any other parties for other types of uses.  Alternatively, the Act 
provides that the City can put the property out for competitive bid and include the entities listed above.  In addition, the 
parking lot at 4th and Railroad Avenue was formerly owned by the Redevelopment Agency prior to being transferred to the 
City. As such, the City would need to share any proceeds of the land sale with the other taxing entities in the County and 
would therefore directly receive only 34% of the sale price or lease revenues for the parcel. City Council direction is 
needed on whether there is interest in moving forward with the possible disposition of either of the parking lots and what 
4 of 13

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
specific term would be required, such as whether replacement parking is required and/or whether a sale or a ground lease 
would be considered.
BUDGET IMPACT:
This action will have no impact on the City's budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Shawn Mason, City Attorney
smason@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7022
5 of 13

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 20-3787
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
November 16, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Community Development Block Grant Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security – Funding Options 
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide staff direction for use of Community Development Block Grant Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security 
funds to address COVID-19.
BACKGROUND:
Each year the City of San Mateo receives Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds from the US Department of 
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to address the community development needs of our lower-income residents and 
neighborhoods.    As part of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, HUD has provided special 
funding to CDBG grantees (CDBG-CV), specifically to address the impacts of COVID-19 for lower-income community 
members.  In Spring 2020, the City received about $440,000 in CDBG-CV funds.  These funds were allocated for emergency 
housing assistance administered by Samaritan House.  The City Council also requested that a portion ($120,000) be 
reserved specifically for rent assistance for in-home childcare providers in an effort to address this critical need.
The City was notified that it will receive another round of CDBG-CV funding in the amount of $821,000. Therefore, the City 
needs to identify the uses and amend its current plan to HUD in order to budget this additional funding.  On October 21st, 
the Community Resources Commission held a Community Needs Hearing to gather input from service providers regarding 
the most urgent needs they are seeing working with clients.  Most comments focused on the need for housing assistance 
and debt relief payments to address the past due rents that have accumulated due to the eviction moratoriums.  There is 
great concern about impacts on households, including subgroups like victims of domestic violence, once the current 
eviction moratorium expires at the end of January.  Also mentioned was the need to help people navigate applying for 
assistance as well as support for child care providers. 
The commissioners encouraged the City Council to help the public understand the magnitude of the hardships that many 
residents are experiencing and to use the limited resources as efficiently as possible to assist as many people as feasible.   
See Attachment 1 for a summary of public comments.
FUNDING OPTIONS
Staff researched two San Mateo County Strong programs that could be replicated with CDBG-CV funds.  In general, the 
CDBG program requires more documentation for income and expenses than the County’s funding source. Therefore, a City 
CDBG program cannot be as streamlined as the County’s and would require greater administrative oversight. 
San Mateo County Child Care Relief Fund. The County program awarded grants to cover one month of operating expenses, 
up to $10,000 for in-home childcare providers.  The program was extremely oversubscribed and over 25 in-home childcare 
providers from San Mateo applied and were not funded.  The CDBG-CV funds could be used to provide similar assistance 
6 of 13

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
to those unfunded applicants whose net business income is less than $97,000 per year, but supplemental information such 
as tax returns and documentation of monthly expenses will need to be collected from applicants in order to confirm 
eligibility.  The Child Care Coordinating Council (4 C’s) is willing to provide staffing to conduct the additional outreach to 
applicants and assist them in compiling the additional documentation.  See Attachment 2 for a program flyer that 
describes the County program.
Small Property Owner Assistance.  This provides funds to make up for the loss of rent payments to landlords in the amount 
of $6,000 per unit up to 10 units, in exchange for forgiving a portion of the back rent owed by tenants. The application 
period was just closing at the time this report was drafted, so it is unclear whether there are unfunded owners of San 
Mateo rentals who could be assisted with City CDBG-CV.  The net income cap and additional documentation described in 
the child care section above would also apply. See Attachment 3 for excerpts from the County FAQ webpage.
One consideration with this route is that the landlords are more likely to exceed the maximum income allowed by CDBG.  
If that is the case, another option is to utilize the City’s “boomerang” funds which consist of a portion of property taxes 
from the City’s former redevelopment areas. These unrestricted funds are designated for Housing in the General Fund and 
would allow the City to use the County funding criteria.  
Emergency Housing Relief
Samaritan House has nearly expended the initial emergency rent assistance funds provided by the City. Samaritan 
anticipates continued demand for this assistance and is bracing for an increase in requests for assistance when the eviction 
moratorium phases out on February 1, 2020.
The $120,000 set aside for in-home childcare providers has not been spent.  Despite several types of outreach by the City 
and 4 C’s, only a handful of providers started the application process and none of them completed it.  It appears that in 
general, providers were not necessarily behind on rent, so they did not apply to the program. Also, there may have been 
some misunderstanding about the program and its application process.  Additionally, it is not known how many providers 
actually rent versus own their homes, or have additional household income that could make them ineligible for the CDBG 
funds.
Staff proposes that the child care set aside be released to assist the general rent assistance program.  In-home childcare 
providers will still be able to apply for the funds.
Unprogrammed 2020 CDBG Funds
At the time the City approved its CDBG Annual Plan for 2020-21, it left about $220,000 temporarily unprogrammed in 
order to monitor the needs and resources to address COVID-19 over the summer.  These funds originally were planned for 
the 2020 Street Project, which is being designed to provide improved bike lanes in the North Central neighborhood, 
particularly along Humboldt Street and Poplar Avenue. The current plan budgets $400,000 for this 2-year project and 
another $350,000 for next year.  
The options for these funds are to increase COVID-related programming or increase funds for the CDBG Street Project. 
CITY COUNCIL DIRECTION
Staff requests feedback from the City Council in order to plan for the use and implementation of CDBG funding by 
answering the following questions:

Does Council want to reprogram the childcare set-aside for Samaritan House’s emergency rent assistance to the 
general program?

Does Council want to provide more emergency housing assistance in partnership with Samaritan House?

Does Council want to fund a San Mateo City version of the County Child Care Relief Fund in partnership with 4C’s?

Does Council want to fund a San Mateo City version of Small Property Owner Assistance with CDBG or the General 
Fund Housing trust account?

Does Council want to program the CDBG unprogrammed $220,000 for COVID-related activities or the 2020 Street 
7 of 13

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Project?
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact at this time. Once Council direction is obtained, the City’s CDBG Consolidated Plan, Annual Plan 
and  the City of San Mateo Business Plan will be amended to appropriate the new funding.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21065, providing this direction to staff is not a project subject to CEQA 
because the City Council is not taking action at this time.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Summary of Public Comments from Community Resources Commission meeting 10/21/20
Att 2 - San Mateo County Strong Child Care Relief Flyer
Att 3 - San Mateo County Strong Small Property OwnerAssistance FAQ Excerpts
STAFF CONTACT
Sandra Council, Housing Manager
scouncil@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7223
8 of 13

--- page 9 ---
ATTACHMENT 1
Community Resources Commission 
10/21/2020 Meeting
Summary of Comments Relating to COVID-19 Needs
The following comments were received:

Debra Smith, HIP Housing. There is a large need for more affordable housing. San Mateo 
residents who have tried to apply to HIP home sharing program still need to find homes. A new 
challenge has risen for how to interview clients while social distancing. Rent is getting too high. 
Clients need more food, financial assistance, and basic necessity grants.  Gig workers are 
experiencing significant losses in income.

Shirley Gibson, Legal Aid. Due to loss of income, there have been lots of eviction situations. AB 
3088 has stopped some evictions temporarily due to rent conversion; rent is being 
recharacterized as consumer debt. New programs being developed should try to create 
efficiencies by having landlords come forward. There is a need to get more financial assistance 
into people's hands before January, since next eviction sessions start in February. If protection 
policies do not keep up with the rent need more evictions will continue. 42 cases have been 
seen since Oct 5. The debt cliff will start in March and people will need financial counseling for 
credit hits or bankruptcy. One possible program to look into starting is a debt relief program 
since people are fleeing debt accumulation by moving into overcrowded homes or going into 
cars. From this point, another program to look into would be a safe parking program.

David Fleishman, 4C’s. Childcare needs to be a priority for CDBG-CV, because childcare is 
especially important for low income families. Early care is the biggest factor in childhood 
development and being unhoused is critical. Generally, childcare providers are women of color. 
More than 2/3 of childcare providers have shutdown due to corona virus. Both an immediate 
and long term need has been established since the county program has exceeded funding.

Jill Morris, CORA. Since COVID, there have been a large increase in law enforcement referrals due 
to domestic violence victims being in lethal situations. There has been an increase of 236% of 
reports. Victims are being placed in hotels due to lack of shelter space. 43 families are in 
transitional housing. There is a low inventory of affordable housing, so some clients have 
become homeless or had to return to their abuser. Both rental assistance and child care 
assistance is necessary. 

Bernie Mellott, Ombudsman. Many residents in assisted long-term care facilities have aged past 
their savings. Currently, there is a gap between their social security payments and rent of the 
facility. A program to look into would be rental assistance with an earmark for elderly. These 
elderly residents are at risk of homelessness once they use up all their funds. 

Ann Marquat, Fair Housing. With the COVID-19 epidemic, there have been increased complaints 
of domestic abuse. Particularly, with a noted increase of familial status complaints. There have 
also been reports of increase of sound from families with children from neighbors.

Evelia Chairez, PCRC. There may been an issue of duplication of benefits. The same people that 
are using the programs before are the same people who are re-using and receiving additional 
benefits while no money is left for unserved people. There is a need for training in terms of 
9 of 13

--- page 10 ---
education for people to teach them how to apply to grant program. Possibly more outreach 
specifically to break language barriers, technology barriers, and general unfamiliarity with 
government.

Farah Mahesri, Chair. We need to prioritize services towards domestic abuse and do better 
outreach to people who need these services who may not know that these services are 
available.

Sharrie Overall, Commissioner. We need to focus on rental assistance, in March, many people are 
not going to be able to make rent. We could do a debt release program in exchange for landlord 
assistance.

Jerold Nugent, Commissioner. The focus of needs have changed drastically, we need more public 
awareness of the extent of pain others are going through and to do more to allocate money.

Chris Hsiung, Commissioner. There's so little money to divide and the need has grown hundred-
fold, we need to fund efficiently. People’s critical needs don't have time to go through 
bureaucracy.
10 of 13

--- page 11 ---
ATTACHMENT 2

In July, the San Mateo County Board of Supervisors allocated
$2M of CARES Act funds to the Child Care Relief Fund.
Eligibility for this grant program is limited to licensed child
care centers and family child care homes as well as
license-exempt public recreation and school-district
operated programs in the county that have been adversely
impacted by COVID-19.

Grants will cover one month of operating expenses up to
$10,000 for family child care homes and $55,000 for child
care centers. Multi-site agencies are eligible for one grant.

The program will prioritize child care programs that serve
the most vulnerable San Mateo County residents,
demonstrate fiscal sustainability, and participate in existing
county initiatives such as The Big Lift and Quality Counts.

Visit bit.ly/SMC_ChildCareRelief.

Questions? Contact Heather Hopkins at
heather@communityequitycollaborative.org.
or 650.283.5112.

Point your camera app
here to visit the website!

11 of 13


--- page 12 ---
ATTACHMENT 3
Small Property Owners    
Program (FAQ Excerpts)
 What is the Small Property Owners Assistance Program?
The San Mateo County Board of Supervisors has dedicated $2 million to establish a grant 
program for small-scale residential rental property owners in the County who have been 
impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.
What are the grant amounts?
The amount of each grant is based on demonstrated lost rental income during the period of April 
1, 2020 through August 31, 2020 for a qualifying unit and, therefore, actual grant amounts will 
vary. However, the maximum grant amount for each qualifying unit is $6,000.
Who is eligible for grants?
To qualify for grants, property owners must meet all of the following criteria:

Live in San Mateo County, including within any incorporated city or unincorporated area 
of the County; and

Lease/rent residential rental properties in San Mateo County, including within any 
incorporated city or unincorporated area of the County; and

Rely on rental property income from qualifying rental unit(s) as their primary income 
source, as shown by 2018 and 2019 tax returns; and

Earned less than $400,000 in annual gross rental income from qualifying rental unit(s) in 
both 2018 and 2019.
What rental units are eligible for grant relief?
To be eligible for relief, rental units must meet all of the following criteria:

Be located in San Mateo County, including within any incorporated city or 
unincorporated area of the County; and

Was occupied, during the period of April 1 through August 31, 2020, by tenant(s) who 
had occupied the unit for at least 30 days (short-term and vacation rental properties are 
not eligible for relief); and
12 of 13

--- page 13 ---

The tenant(s) of the unit have paid less than the full rent due during the period of April 1 
through August 31, 2020 as a result of COVID-19, resulting in a loss of rental income to 
the property owner(s); and

Must not have code violations or unaddressed public liens; and

Monthly rental rates for the units must not exceed the 2020 HUD Fair Market Rent 
thresholds for San Mateo County, adjusted by unit size, that are shown below: 
o
Studio:        $2,197
o
1-Bedroom: $2,720
o
2-Bedroom: $3,339
o
3-Bedroom: $4,365
o
4-Bedroom: $4,657
What are the rent waiver conditions of the grant?
Grant recipients will be required to discharge back rent owed by tenants of qualifying units equal 
to the amount of demonstrated rental losses between April 1 and August 31, 2020, up to a 
maximum discharge amount of $7,500 per qualifying unit. The grant amount is equal to 80 
percent of the back-rent discharge amount (up to the maximum of $7,500), up to a maximum 
grant of $6,000 per qualifying unit ($7,500 – 20% = $6,000). Please see the examples below:

Example #1: $5,000 in rental losses, $5,000 back-rent discharge, $4,000 awarded grant, 
$0 back-rent owed by renter

Example #2: $7,500 in rental losses, $7,500 back-rent discharge, $6,000 awarded grant, 
$0 back-rent owed by renter

Example #3: $10,000 in rental losses, $7,500 back-rent discharge, $6,000 awarded 
grant, $2,500 back-rent continues to be owed by renter
Will priority be given to certain eligible units?
Yes. All applications will be reviewed for eligibility, and eligible units will be prioritized based on 
two factors: 1) location within priority zip codes having high poverty and COVID-19 infection 
rates, and 2) the ratio of rental loss to the property owner’s income.
13 of 13